UNIVERSITY 
OF  FLORIDA 
LIBRARIES 


COLLEGE  LIBRARY 


1000  YEARS 
OF  IRISH  PROSE 

The  Literary  Revival 


UNIFORM    WITH   THIS   VOLUME 


1000  YEARS 

OF 

IRISH  POETRY 

Edited  by  Kathleen  Hoagland 

THE  GAELIC  AND  ANGLO-IRISH 

POETS  FROM  PAGAN  TIMES 

TO  THE  PRESENT 


1000  YEARS 

OF 

IRISH  PROSE 

Edited  by  Vivian  Mercier 

and  David  H.  Greene 

PART  II 

GAEL  AND  SAXON 

in  preparation 


PUBLISHED   BY   THE   DEVIN-ADAIR   COMPANY 


1000  YEARS 
OF  IRISH  PROSE 

PART    I 

The  Literary  Revival 

Edited  with  an  Introduction 
by 

Vivian  Mercier 

and 

David  H.    Greene 


NEW    YORK 

THE     DEVIN-ADAIR     COMPANY 

1953 


1000  YEARS  OF  IRISH  PROSE.  Copyright  1952 

by  The  Devin-Adair  Company. 

Permission  to  reproduce  material  from 

this  book  must  be  obtained  in  writing 

from  special  copyright  owners  as  listed 

on  the  acknowledgment  pages. 
Dramatic  rights  to  the  plays  included 
in  this  book  are  controlled  by  Samuel 
French,  Inc.,  25  West  45  St.,  New  York. 
Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America. 


First  Printing  July  1952 
Second  Printing  February  1953 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

We  gratefully  acknowledge  the  advice  and  assistance  of  the 
following  people:  Padraic  Colum,  Oscar  Cargill,  John  V.  Kelleher, 
Horace  Reynolds,  Sean  O'Casey,  Daniel  Corkery,  Sean  O'Faolain, 
John  Slocum,  James  Laughlin,  Conor  Cruise  O'Brien,  Patrick  K. 
Lynch,  Desmond  Ryan,  Seamus  Murphy,  Seumas  O'Sullivan,  Sean 
Hendrick,  Henry  B.  MacCurdy,  Alphonsus  Sweeney,  Frank  O'Con- 
nor, Peter  Kavanagh,  the  staffs  of  The  New  York  Public  and  The 
New  York  University  libraries,  our  publisher  Devin  Garrity  and 
his  staff,  and  our  wives  Gina  Mercier  and  Catherine  Greene. 

Permission  to  reprint  material,  hereby  acknowledged,  was  kindly 
given  by  the  following:  The  Macmillan  Company  for  'Maelshaugh- 
linn  at  the  Fair'  from  Castle  Conquer  (copyright  1923),  'Cathleen 
Ni  Houlihan,'  from  The  Hour  Glass  and  Other  Plays  ( copyright  1904, 
1931),  'The  Two  Gods'  from  The  Crock  of  Gold  (copyright  1912, 
1940),  'The  Unworthy  Princess'  from  Here  Are  Ladies  (copyright 
1913),  'The  Shadow  of  a  Gunman'  (copyright  1925),  and  'The 
Resurrection'  from  Wheels  &  Butterflies  ( copyright  1934 ) ;  Random 
House  for  'Preface  to  The  Playboy  of  the  Western  World,'  'In  the 
Shadow  of  the  Glen,'  and  the  first  part  of  'The  Aran  Islands'  from 
The  Complete  Works  of  John  M.  Synge  (copyright  1935),  'The 
Sirens'  from  Ulysses  (copyright  1918,  1919,  1920  by  Margaret  An- 
derson; 1934  by  The  Modern  Library);  Alfred  A.  Knopf  for  'The 
Bridal  Night'  from  Crab  Apple  Jelly  (copyright  1944)  and  'First 
Confession'  from  Travellers  Samples  (copyright  1951);  Harcourt, 
Brace  for  'Going  into  Exile'  from  Spring  Sowing  and  Other  Stories 
( copyright  1926 ) ;  The  Viking  Press  for  'Dead  King'  from  A  Portrait 
of  the  Artist  as  a  Young  Man  (copyright  1916  by  B.  W.  Huebsch, 
1944  by  Nora  Joyce)  and  'Midsummer  Night  Madness'  from  Midsum- 
mer Night  Madness  and  Other  Stories  (copyright  1932);  Charles 
Scribner's  Sons  for  'The  Fate  of  the  Sons  of  Usnach'  taken  from 
Cuchulain  of  Muirthemne;  Professor  Daniel  Corkery  and  The  Devin- 
Adair  Co.  for  'Rock-of-the-Mass'  from  The  Wager  and  Other  Stories 
(copyright  1950);  Mr.  Diarmuid  Russell  for  'The  Dublin  Strike'; 
Senator  Margaret  Pearse  and  The  Talbot  Press  for  'The  Coming 
Revolution    and  'At  the  Grave  of  O'Donovan   Rossa'  from   The 


VI  ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

Collected  Works  of  Padraic  H.  Pearse;  Mr.  Desmond  Ryan  and  The 
Irish  Transport  and  General  Workers'  Union  for  'What  is  our  Pro- 
gramme?'; Mrs.  Alan  Cameron  (Elizabeth  Bowen)  for  'An  Evening 
in  Anglo-Ireland'  from  The  Last  September  (copyright  1929);  Mr. 
Edward  Sheehy  and  Mr.  Seumas  O'Sullivan  for  God  Send  Sunday; 
Mr.  Liam  O'Flaherty  and  Jacques  Chambrun  Inc.  for  'The  Wounded 
Cormorant'  from  The  Tent  and  Other  Stories;  Mr.  Austin  Clarke 
for  'Gormlai  and  Cormac'  from  The  Singing  Men  at  Cashel;  Mr. 
Michael  McLaverty  and  the  editors  of  Irish  Writing  for  'Six  Weeks 
on  and  Two  Ashore';  Mr.  Francis  Stuart  and  The  Devin-Adair  Co. 
for  'The  Varied  Shapes  of  Violence'  from  Redemption  (copyright 
1950);  the  estate  of  Miss  Edith  Somerville  and  Longmans,  Green 
and  Co.,  for  'The  Holy  Island'  from  some  Experiences  of  an 
Irish  R.  M.;  Mr.  Michael  O'Kelly  for  'The  Man  with  the  Gift'  from 
The  Golden  Barque  and  The  Weavers  Grave;  Mr.  Patrick  Kavanagh 
and  Brandt  and  Brandt  for  'The  Grey  Dawn'  from  The  Green  Fool; 
Mrs.  Margaret  O'Flaherty  (Margaret  Barrington)  for  'Village  With- 
out Men'  from  They  Go,  The  Irish;  Mr.  Brian  O'Nolan  (Flann 
O'Brien)  and  Pantheon  Books  for  'Mad  Sweeny  versus  Jem  Casey' 
from  At  Swim-Two-Birds;  Mr.  Brian  O'Nolan  (Myles  na  gCopa- 
leen )  and  the  editors  of  Irish  Writing  for  'Drink  and  Time  in  Dublin'; 
Mr.  C.  D.  Medley  for  'A  Letter  to  Rome'  from  The  Unfilled  Field; 
Mr.  Oliver  St.  John  Gogarty  for  'Tall  Hats  and  Churns'  from  As  I 
Was  Going  Down  Sackville  Street  (copyright  1937);  Appleton- 
Century-Crofts  for  'A  Theological  Fork'  from  Hail  and  Farewell 
(copyright  1911,  1912,  1914,  1925). 

D.  H.  G. 
V.M. 


CONTENTS 


Acknowledgments v 

Introduction David  H.  Greene  and  Vivian  Mercier  ix 

OLD  EIRE  AND  THE  ANCIENT  WAYS 

Cathleen  Ni  Houlihan W.  B.  Yeats  3 

The  Bardic  History  of  Ireland Standish  O'Grady  14 

The  Knighting  of  Cuculain Standish  O'Grady  30 

The  Duel  of  Cuculain  and  Fardia Standish  O'Grady  34 

The  Death  of  Cuculain Standish  O'Grady  39 

The  Fate  of  the  Sons  of  Usnach Lady  Gregory  44 

The  Two  Gods James  Stephens  73 

The  Necessity  for  De-Anglicising  Ireland Douglas  Hyde  79 

THE  LIVING  WORLD  FOR  TEXT 

Preface  to  The  Playboy  of  the  Western  World ..../.  M.  Synge  93 

The  Aran  Islands J.M.  Synge  94 

In  the  Shadow  of  the  Glen /.  M.  Synge  142 

The  Emigrant Shan  F.  Bullock  157 

A  Letter  to  Rome George  Moore  163 

A  Theological  Fork George  Moore  175 

Dead  King James  Joyce  191 

Maelshaughlinn  at  the  Fair Padraic  Colum  203 

Rock-of-the-Mass Daniel  Corkery  208 

OUR  OWN  RED  BLOOD 

The  Dublin  Strike AE(George  Russell)  227 

The  Coming  Revolution Padraic  Pearse  234 

At  the  Grave  of  O'Donovan  Rossa Padraic  Pearse  238 

What  is  Our  Programme? James  Connolly  240 

Proclamation  of  the  Irish  Republic 245 

The  Shadow  of  a  Gunman Sean  O' Casey  247 : 

An  Evening  in  Anglo-Ireland Elizabeth  Bowen  294 

Midsummer  Night  Madness Sean  O'Faolain  310 

God  Send  Sunday Edward  Sheehy  344 


Vlll  CONTENTS 

TURN  ASIDE  AND  BROOD 

Going   Into   Exile Liam  O'Flaherty  369 

The  Wounded   Cormorant Liam  O'Flaherty  379 

Gormlai  and  Cormac Austin  Clarke  382 

The  Bridal  Night Frank  O'Connor  406 

Six  Weeks  on  and  Two  Ashore Michael  McLaverty  413 

The  Varied  Shapes  of  Violence Francis  Stuart  423 

WHERE  MOTLEY  IS  WORN 

The   Holy   Island Somerville  and   Ross  447 

The  Unworthy  Princess James  Stephens  463 

The  Man  with  the  Gift Seumas   O' Kelly  467 

Tall  Hats  and  Churns Oliver  St.  John  Gogarty  476 

The  Grey  Dawn Patrick  Kavanagh  487 

Village   Without   Men Margaret   Barrington  497 

Drink  and  Time  in  Dublin Myles  na  gCopaleen  509 

First  Confession Frank  O'Connor  516 

NO  COUNTRY  FOR  OLD  MEN 

The  Sirens James  Joyce  527 

Mad  Sweeny  versus  Jem  Casey Flann  O'Brien  563 

The  Resurrection W.  B.  Yeats  583 

Notes  on  the  Authors 595 


INTRODUCTION 


When  the  publisher  asked  us  to  edit  a  two-volume  collection 
modestly  entitled  1000  Years  of  Irish  Prose,  we  had  no  hesitation 
in  ignoring  the  mathematics  of  the  thing  and  deciding  to  devote  the 
first  volume  to  the  period  of  the  Literary  Revival,  as  our  subtitle 
indicates.  Having  temporarily  disposed  of  approximately  930  of  our 
1000  years,  we  faced  the  question  of  what  kind  of  book  this  would 
be.  Would  it  be  one  of  those  Cabinets  or  Treasuries  one  can  still 
pick  up  at  secondhand  bookstores  in  broken  sets  and  faded  gran- 
deur— Irish  harps  on  the  cover  and  blind  Carolan  for  a  frontispiece — 
designed  to  show  the  world  what  the  Irish  have  always  known, 
that  half  of  the  great  writers  in  English  literature,  and  a  few  other 
literatures  besides,  were  Irishmen?  If  so,  we  had  only  to  assemble 
snippets  from  as  many  writers  as  we  could  find  who  could  safely 
be  described  as  Irish,  and  our  'green  branch  hung  with  many  a 
bell'  would  impress  more  by  its  length  and  variety  than  by  the 
quality  of  its  contents.  Or  would  it  be  full  of  what  Tom  Broadbent 
in  John  Bull's  Other  Island  called  'Irish  charm,'  which  is  to  say 
saints,  leprechauns,  and  'the  mist  that  does  be  on  the  bog?  If  we 
scorned  these  conventional  approaches,  there  was  the  chance  that 
we  might  end  up  by  thrusting  at  our  readers  one  of  those  antholo- 
gies which  present  only  what  is  unfamiliar  and  should  have  re- 
mained so. 

Having  scouted  the  terrain,  in  this  instance  an  Irish  bog  where 
the  ghost  of  Justin  McCarthy  dogged  our  footsteps,  we  came  to  the 
conclusion  that  we  would  be  hanged  for  one  thing  as  quickly  as  an- 
other and  that  we  might  satisfy  more  readers  if  we  first  satisfied 
ourselves.  So  our  principles  were  formulated:  first,  no  snippets. 
Second,  we  would  offer  what  we  considered  the  most  readable  and 
the  most  significant — if  there  is  any  distinction  between  the  two — 
in  Irish  prose  writing  from  the  point  where  the  Literary  Revival 
may  be  said  to  have  begun  to  the  present  day.  We  also  decided  that 
we  were  dealing  with  a  body  of  writing  which  for  the  greater  part 
of  our  period,  say  up  to  the  death  of  Yeats,  was  informed  by  certain 
ideals  held  in  common  by  most  of  the  men  and  women  who  were 
doing  the  writing,  that  in  fact  we  were  dealing  with  a  movement. 

We  are  aware  of  the  fact  that  the  Literary  Revival  has  recently 


X  INTRODUCTION 

been  called  a  thing  more  of  shadow  than  of  substance  and  that  one 
Dublin  wit  described  the  whole  affair  as  nothing  more  than  a 
group  of  writers  who  lived  in  the  same  town  and  hated  each  other 
cordially.  We  not  only  believe  that  the  Literary  Revival  was  a 
movement  but  also  that  its  ideals  were  defined  and  its  destination 
charted  very  largely  by  one  man.  There  is  more  truth  than  irony  in 
Sean  O'Casey's  description  of  William  Butler  Yeats  as  'The  Great 
Founder/ 

Yeats,  as  you  will  see,  is  represented  here  by  two  plays  which  in- 
dicate the  two  extremes  to  which  his  career  as  a  writer  took  him. 
Cathleen  Ni  Houlihan,  which  was  first  performed  in  1902  with 
Maude  Gonne  in  the  title  role,  marks  the  real  beginning  of  the 
Irish  National  Theatre.  Nobody,  even  in  1902,  pretended  it  was  a 
great  play,  but  it  gave  life  once  again  to  the  Poor  Old  Woman  who 
is  Ireland  herself  and  had  an  effect  upon  its  audiences  which 
neither  they  nor  Yeats  could  ever  forget. 

Did  that  play  of  mine  send  out 
Certain  men  the  English  shot? 

In  1907,  for  example,  he  was  able  to  silence  a  hostile  audience 
which  would  not  let  him  speak  in  defense  of  Synge's  Playboy  by 
shouting  at  them,  'The  author  of  Cathleen  Ni  Houlihan  addresses 
you.'  Mary  Colum,  who  was  in  that  audience,  tells  us  that  'The 
audience,  remembering  that  passionately  patriotic  play,  forgot  its 
antagonism  for  a  few  minutes,  and  Yeats  got  his  cheers.' 

The  other  play  of  Yeats  which  we  have  chosen  is  The  Resurrec- 
tion, first  performed  at  the  Abbey  Theatre  in  1934.  It  is  based  on 
the  strange  philosophical  system  Yeats  expounded  in  A  Vision 
when  his  song  was  no  longer  'a  coat  covered  with  embroideries  out 
of  old  mythologies'  and  he  had  become  a  poet  of  major  propor- 
tions and  a  Nobel  prize  winner.  By  this  time  the  movement  he  had 
founded  and  was  still  dominating  had  gone  through  almost  as  many 
phases  of  existence  as  his  twenty-eight  phases  of  the  moon,  and 
even  the  Poor  Old  Woman,  as  we  shall  see  presently,  was  finding 
the  going  much  rougher. 

Since  we  were  anthologizing  the  prose  writing  of  a  distinct  liter- 
ary movement  and  its  aftermath,  we  arranged  the  selections  not  in 
chronological  order  but  in  such  a  way  as  to  show  their  relationship 
to  each  other  and  to  the  whole.  The  book  is  therefore  divided  into 
as  many  sections  as  the  material  itself  suggested.  And  since  the  gi- 


INTRODUCTION 


gantic  figure  of  Yeats  dominated  so  much  of  modern  Irish  literature 
we  have  drawn  our  section  headings  from  his  poetry.  But  before  we 
examine  the  literature  itself,  let  us  consider  briefly  what  conditions 
helped  to  produce  it  and  what  sort  of  men  its  authors  were. 


II 

The  new  period  of  British  colonization  of  Ireland  which  began 
under  Queen  Elizabeth  and  continued  to  the  end  of  the  seven- 
teenth century  created  a  fundamental  schism  in  Irish  life  which  has 
persisted  to  the  present  day.  Where  the  old  Anglo-Norman  colonists 
of  the  twelfth  century  and  after  were  largely  assimilated  by  the 
prevailing  Gaelic  culture,  and  in  any  case  shared  the  religion  of 
the  people  they  invaded,  the  new  colonists  set  out  to  destroy  the 
Gaelic  culture  they  found  in  situ;  they  felt  the  less  sympathy  for  it 
because  it  was  associated  in  their  minds  with  the  Boman  Catholic 
religion,  which  was  regarded  by  both  Scottish  and  English  settlers 
as  an  abominable  heresy.  Thus,  as  in  the  Spanish  conquest  of  South 
America,  the  normally  selfish  outlook  of  a  colonizing  group  was 
reinforced  by  religious  bigotry — as  well  as  by  genuine  religious 
idealism.  Intermarriage  between  colonizers  and  colonized,  which 
had  been  the  chief  agency  of  Norman-Gaelic  assimilation,  was  now 
out  of  the  question.  Beligion,  culture,  political  and  economic  status 
went  hand  in  hand.  Even  in  present-day  Ireland  the  rough-and- 
ready  equation  of  an  Irish-Gaelic  name  with  Boman  Catholicism 
and  peasant  origins  is  more  often  right  than  wrong. 

The  eighteenth  century  was  the  century  par  excellence  of  Prot- 
estant Ascendancy  in  Ireland.  Thanks  to  the  destruction  of  the 
Gaelic  aristocracy  in  the  wars  of  the  preceding  century  and  the  op- 
pressive Penal  Laws  which  denied  most  civil  rights  to  Catholics, 
the  Protestant  aristocracy  and  middle  class  were  left  free  to  create 
an  Anglo-Irish  culture  of  their  own  if  they  could;  but  the  competi- 
tion offered  by  England  was  too  strong.  Too  many  of  their  best 
brains — Sheridan,  Goldsmith,  Burke — gravitated  to  London.  The  at- 
tempt to  found  an  Anglo-Irish  state  met  with  no  better  success; 
the  Irish  Parliament,  which  had  won  itself  some  genuine  independ- 
ence of  Britain  in  1782,  was  extinguished  by  the  Act  of  Union  of 
1800. 

The  events  of  the  eighteenth  century  made  it  abundantly  clear 


INTRODUCTION 


that  if  there  was  ever  to  be  a  distinctively  Irish  culture  again,  the 
Protestants  alone  could  never  provide  it.  The  base  of  their  cultural 
pyramid  was  altogether  too  narrow,  while  its  apex  was  constantly 
being  lopped  off  to  be  put  to  English  uses.  London  had  always 
been  their  cultural  capital;  when  it  became  their  political  capital 
too,  there  seemed  no  possibility  that  the  term  'Anglo-Irish'  could 
ever  come  to  have  a  valid  meaning.  Yet  in  retrospect  we  can  see 
that  nineteenth-century  Irish  history  contains  two  seemingly  con- 
tradictory trends.  On  the  one  hand,  Protestantism,  except  in  the 
North-east,  steadily  lost  more  and  more  of  its  economic  and  politi- 
cal power;  the  Irish  Catholics,  having  found  leaders  among  them- 
selves for  the  first  time  in  over  a  hundred  years,  regained  their  civil 
rights  under  Daniel  O'Connell  in  1829  and  won  back  the  owner- 
ship of  the  soil  under  Michael  Davitt  in  the  years  1879-1903.  On  the 
other  hand,  step  by  step  with  the  decline  of  their  economic  and  po- 
litical power — perhaps  even  because  of  it — Irish  Protestants  de- 
veloped a  steadily  growing  interest  in  the  Gaelic  heritage  of  their 
adopted  country.  The  Young  Ireland  movement  begun  by  Thomas 
Davis  and  others  in  1842  sought  to  base  a  nationalist  movement  of 
all  creeds  and  classes  upon  a  common  interest  in  Irish  history  and 
tradition,  but  it  came  too  soon;  what  the  mass  of  the  Irish  people 
needed,  as  the  Great  Famine  of  1846-1848  was  soon  to  demonstrate, 
was  a  system  of  land  tenure  that  would  give  them  enough  to  eat. 
Until  Ireland  became  a  country  of  peasant  proprietors,  only  the 
Protestants  and  a  relatively  few  well-to-do  Catholics  were  in  a 
position  to  care  for  cultural — as  opposed  to  political — nationalism. 
By  1893,  when  Douglas  Hyde  and  others  founded  the  non-political 
Gaelic  League  for  the  revival  of  the  Irish  language  and  the  whole 
culture  that  went  with  it,  times  had  changed:  culture  need  no 
longer  fear  outright  hunger  as  a  competitor. 

It  will  be  convenient,  as  well  as  historically  correct,  to  abandon 
here  the  embarrassing  classifications  of  'Catholic'  and  'Protestant/ 
Instead  we  can  speak  of  the  Catholics  as  Irish,  and  separate  the 
Protestants  into  Anglo-Irish — those  whose  loyalties  were  divided  be- 
tween Ireland  and  England — and  Unionists — those,  mainly  in  the 
four  north-eastern  counties  of  Antrim,  Down,  Derry  and  Armagh 
where  there  is  still  a  Protestant  majority,  who  gave  undivided  al- 
legiance to  the  British  crown. 

As  readers  of  Daniel  Corkery's  The  Hidden  Ireland  know,  Ireland 
was  still  producing  Gaelic  poets  of  genius  in  the  eighteenth  cen- 


INTRODUCTION 


tury;  by  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  it  seemed  as  though  the 
Irish  language  might  disappear  for  ever;  before  it  did,  a  number  of 
poets,  Irish  and  Anglo-Irish,  determined  to  translate  at  least  some 
of  its  finer  lyrics.  We  must  also  give  credit  to  the  historians,  who 
were  actually  the  first  to  translate  Irish  texts  into  English.  But  the 
real  scope  and  grandeur  of  the  Gaelic  heritage  was  not  made  clear 
until  about  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century,  when  the  growth 
of  modern  philology  made  possible  the  editing  and  translation  of 
the  texts  in  Old  Irish  (i.e.,  the  language  as  written  before  900 
A.  D.).  Not  until  the  scholars,  historians  and  translators  had  done 
their  work  could  the  great  writers  of  the  early  part  of  the  Revival 
— Yeats,  Synge,  Lady  Gregory,  Standish  O'Grady — accomplish  their 
astonishing  feat  of  recreating,  for  readers  of  modern  English,  a  lit- 
erature and  a  mythology  which  had  been  moribund  for  nearly  a 
thousand  years.  In  the  process  they  took  a  great  step  toward  the 
healing  of  the  schism,  for  it  must  be  stressed  that  those  whose 
names  are  singled  out  above,  and  the  overwhelming  majority  of 
their  first  coadjutors,  were  Anglo-Irish.  Two  further  steps  were  nec- 
essary to  make  the  new  literature  representative,  not  of  a  narrow 
group  only,  nor  of  a  glorious  period  in  the  remote  past,  but  of  the 
whole  Irish  people  as  it  exists  here  and  now.  First,  the  new  respect 
for  the  Gaelic  past  of  Ireland  must  lead  to  a  new  respect  for  the 
Irish  peasantry  who  were  its  legitimate  heirs.  Second,  the  country 
people  themselves,  or  at  least  the  more  articulate  among  them, 
must  become  conscious  of  their  heritage.  These  two  steps  were 
taken  with  astonishing  rapidity.  Half-a-dozen  years  after  the  found- 
ing of  the  Irish  Literary  Theatre  in  1899,  the  'peasant  play'  had 
become  an  established  literary  genre.  Only  twenty-five  years  after 
Synge  paid  his  first  visit  to  the  Aran  Islands  to  study  the  Irish 
language  and  observe  the  ways  of  the  islanders  who  spoke  it, 
one  of  those  islanders,  Liam  O'Flaherty,  published  his  first  novel  in 
English,  beginning  a  literary  career  which  was  to  win  him  a  world- 
wide reputation — as  wide  as  the  distance  from  Hollywood  to  Mos- 
cow. 

Since  the  earliest  of  our  selections  dates  from  1878,  the  first  to 
be  considered  among  the  movements  which  give  the  period  its 
complexity  and  vigor  is  the  Home  Rule  Movement.  Founded  in 
1870  by  Isaac  Butt,  an  Anglo-Irish  lawyer,  it  was  dominated  by  the 
figure  of  an  Anglo-Irish  landlord,  Charles  Stuart  Parnell,  who  be- 
came Chairman  of  the  Irish  Party  at  Westminster  in  1878.  Its  ob- 


XIV  INTRODUCTION 

ject  was  to  win,  through  the  efforts  of  the  Members  of  Parliament 
elected  by  Irish  constituencies  to  the  British  House  of  Commons,  a 
measure  of  self-government  for  Ireland  that  in  retrospect  appears 
little  more  liberating  than  U.  S.  statehood.  By  1890  it  had  already 
become  clear  that  nothing  short  of  a  reform  of  the  House  of  Lords 
would  force  such  a  measure  through  the  British  legislature.  In  this 
year  Parnell  was  cited  as  the  adulterous  co-respondent  in  the  di- 
vorce action  of  Captain  O'Shea,  M.  P.,  against  his  wife  Kitty.  The 
suit  was  not  defended  and  the  subsequent  scandal  ended  Parnell's 
leadership  and  tore  the  Irish  Party  in  pieces.  Parnell  died  in  the  fol- 
lowing year.  Some  of  the  repercussions  of  the  scandal  on  Irish  feel- 
ing may  be  read  of  in  the  selection  from  Joyce  that  we  have  titled 
'Dead  King.'  An  English  Liberal  Government  that  was  prepared 
to  abolish  the  veto  of  the  House  of  Lords  if  necessary  finally  passed 
a  Home  Rule  Act  in  1914,  but  the  implementing  of  its  provisions 
was  postponed  until  after  World  War  I.  By  1920  the  Unionists  of 
the  six  counties  which  now  make  up  Northern  Ireland  were  ready 
to  accept  the  Home  Rule  program  that  they  had  solemnly  sworn  to 
resist  to  the  death  in  1912,  while  the  rest  of  Ireland  had  lost  all  in- 
terest in  Home  Rule  and  was  crying  out  for  nothing  less  than  na- 
tional sovereignty,  preferably  as  a  Republic. 

National  sovereignty  and  complete  separation  from  England  had 
always  been  the  aim  of  some  Irishmen  in  every  period  since  the 
Anglo-Norman  invasion.  The  Irish  Republican  Brotherhood,  a 
secret  society  founded  in  1858,  which  had  organized  the  abortive 
Fenian  uprising  of  1867,  was  still  in  being  during  our  period, 
though  few  suspected  its  existence,  while  fewer  still  dreamed  that 
Irishmen  would  ever  rise  in  arms  against  Britain  again.  The 
Brotherhood  in  Dublin  contained  one  indispensable  link  with  the 
past,  Tom  Clarke,  the  old  Fenian.  In  New  York's  Clan  na  Gael  was 
another,  John  Devoy.  But  the  final  inspiration  of  the  1916  Rising, 
its  Commander-in-Chief  and  President  of  the  Provisional  Govern- 
ment, was  an  ascetic  schoolmaster  and  Gaelic  enthusiast  who 
joined  the  IRB  as  late  as  1913,  Padraic  Pearse.  Had  Pearse  not 
been  a  military  and  political  leader,  his  rhetorical  gift  would  still 
have  won  him  a  place  in  our  anthology. 

The  IRB  members  as  a  group — whatever  their  individual  opin- 
ions might  be — were  agreed  that  it  would  be  time  enough  to  decide 
exactly  what  shape  the  new  Ireland  ought  to  take  after  an  All- 
Ireland  Republic  had  fought  its  way  out  of  the  British  Empire.  But 


INTRODUCTION  XV 

the  leaders  of  a  number  of  social  and  economic  movements  that 
were  also  at  work  during  our  period  had  determined  to  change  the 
face  of  Ireland  in  their  own  time,  even  if  the  Union  with  Great 
Britain  lasted  till  Doomsday. 

The  Land  League,  founded  1879,  was  the  first  of  these  movements 
to  succeed;  under  the  leadership  of  its  founder  Michael  Davitt,  a 
former  Fenian  and  the  son  of  an  evicted  tenant  farmer,  the  tenant 
farmers  of  Ireland  became  a  disciplined,  organized  army;  they  in- 
vented and  used  the  technique  of  the  boycott  to  bring  recalcitrant 
landlords  to  heel.  Helped  by  the  Irish  Party,  they  gained  from  the 
Land  Act  of  1881  the  'three  FY — fair  rent,  fixity  of  tenure,  and 
free  sale.  The  landlords,  fearing  that  their  rents  would  be  pro- 
gressively reduced  by  similar  Acts  in  the  future,  began  to  favor  a 
system  of  land  purchase,  whereby  the  British  Government  would 
finance  the  tenants'  purchase  of  their  estates.  Wyndham's  Land  Act 
of  1903  was  the  most  sweeping  of  the  measures  which  implemented 
this  policy  of  purchase;  Davitt  (d.  1906)  lived  to  write  a  book  en- 
titled, quite  accurately,  The  Fall  of  Feudalism  in  Ireland. 

A  movement  that  was  predominantly  urban  and  middle-class  to 
begin  with  was  Arthur  Griffith's  Sinn  Fein  (Gaelic  for  'Our- 
selves'), founded  in  1905.  Griffith  possessed  the  imagination  of  the 
utterly  unimaginative;  being  in  favor  of  an  independent  Ireland, 
he  set  about  imagining  what  such  an  Ireland  would  be  like:  very 
like  England,  it  turned  out,  with  a  merchant  navy  and  many  indus- 
tries and  two  houses  of  parliament  and  even  a  king.  Ireland  was  to 
form  part  of  a  dual  monarchy  with  Britain,  as  Hungary  did  with 
Austria,  and  this  end  was  to  be  achieved  by  passive  resistance,  as  it 
had  been  in  Hungary.  The  Irish  were  simply  to  start  governing 
themselves  one  day,  setting  up  their  own  executive,  legislature  and 
judiciary,  and  thenceforward  to  ignore  the  organs  of  British  gov- 
ernment in  Ireland.  For  ten  years  and  more  Sinn  Fein  was  a  skele- 
ton organization,  chiefly  advocating  the  development  of  native  in- 
dustries, until  the  execution  of  the  1916  leaders,  coupled  with  the 
threat  of  conscription,  turned  the  majority  of  the  Irish  people  into 
separatists  almost  overnight.  After  the  gory  defeat  of  the  Easter 
Rising,  few  wanted  open  war  with  Britain,  but  all  sought  a  program 
more  radical  than  that  of  the  Irish  Parliamentary  Party,  which  had 
discredited  itself  by  allowing  Home  Rule  to  be  shelved  while  urging 
Irishmen  to  enlist  in  the  British  Army.  Sinn  Fein  provided  that 
program  and  the  rudiments  of  a  political  machine.  In  the  General 


XVI  INTRODUCTION 

Election  of  December  1918  Sinn  Fein  candidates  won  73  of  the  106 
Irish  seats,  refused  to  go  to  Westminster,  and  set  up  their  own  par- 
liament, Dail  Eireann,  in  Dublin  the  next  month.  Eamon  De  Valera 
was  elected  President  of  the  Irish  Republic  and  he  made  Griffith  his 
Minister  for  Home  Affairs.  Guerrilla  warfare  between  the  British 
forces  in  Ireland  and  the  Irish  Republican  Army  soon  followed.  The 
Truce  of  June  1921  led  to  the  Anglo-Irish  Treaty  of  December 
1921,  which  Griffith  signed  as  one  of  the  plenipotentiaries.  When 
the  Dail  ratified  the  Treaty  in  spite  of  the  opposition  of  De  Valera 
and  many  others,  Griffith  became  head  of  the  Provisional  Govern- 
ment set  up  to  carry  out  the  terms  of  the  Treaty,  and  so  first 
President  of  the  Irish  Free  State.  He  died  August  13,  1922,  at 
the  height  of  the  civil  war  between  his  government  and  the  De 
Valera  party. 

Two  further  politico-economic  movements  must  be  briefly  men- 
tioned, Trade  Unionism  and  Agricultural  Co-operation.  The  lead- 
ing figure  in  the  former  was  James  Connolly,  who  with  James 
Larkin  introduced  industrial — as  opposed  to  craft — unionism  into 
Ireland.  Their  Irish  Transport  and  General  Workers'  Union  is  still 
the  biggest  in  Ireland.  When  this  union  lost  the  bitterly  fought 
Dublin  Tramways  strike  in  1913,  partly  because  the  Dublin  Met- 
ropolitan Police  intervened  aggressively  on  the  employers'  side, 
Connolly  and  Larkin  founded  the  Irish  Citizen  Army,  a  workers'  or- 
ganization to  protect  the  workers.  The  British  Government  was 
hardly  in  a  position  to  suppress  a  private  army  of  this  type  as  long 
as  it  countenanced  the  Ulster  Volunteers,  formed  in  1913  to  resist 
Home  Rule.  The  Irish  Volunteers,  later  known  as  the  Irish  Re- 
publican Army,  were  organized  the  same  year  at  the  instigation 
of  the  IRB,  ostensibly  to  defend  Home  Rule,  but  with  the  hope 
that  they  might  ultimately  play  a  much  more  aggressive  role,  as 
the  Dublin  units  in  fact  did  by  carrying  out  the  Easter  Rising  of 
1916. 

The  Irish  Agricultural  Organization  Society,  founded  by  the 
Tory  Sir  Horace  Plunkett,  sought  to  promote  farmers'  and  con- 
sumers' co-operatives,  and  to  teach  better  farming  methods  in  gen- 
eral. One  of  its  organizers,  AE,  became  the  leading  apostle  for  an 
entire  national  economy  based  on  rural  self-help,  similar  to  the 
'distributism'  favored  by  G.  K.  Chesterton. 

In  a  period  that  saw  the  formation  of  entirely  new  social  classes 
and  the  growth  of  more  daring  national  aspirations,  no  cultural 


INTRODUCTION 


movement  could  remain  merely  cultural  and  apolitical.  Douglas 
Hyde  resigned  from  the  presidency  of  the  Gaelic  League  in  1915, 
when  the  non-political'  clause  was  voted  out  of  its  constitution, 
but  in  fact  most  of  its  members  had  always  felt  that  the  existence  of 
the  Irish  language  was  one  of  the  most  compelling  arguments  for 
the  independence  of  the  Irish  nation.  In  the  League's  early  days  its 
branches  combined  the  gaiety  of  social  clubs  with  the  fervor  of 
Communist  cells.  No  conscientious  listing  of  political  and  social 
movements,  such  as  we  have  sought  to  give  here,  could  lay  claim 
to  completeness  while  omitting  to  mention  the  more-than-cultural 
significance  of  the  Gaelic  League. 


Ill 

To  be  typical  of  the  authors  who  made  their  mark  on  Irish  lit- 
erature in  the  period  1880-1905  a  man  (or  woman)  must  be 
born  into  an  Anglo-Irish,  Protestant  family;  Edward  Martyn  and 
George  Moore  are  the  chief  exceptions  to  this  rule,  but  they  resem- 
ble Lady  Gregory  and  the  partnership  of  Somerville  and  Ross  in  be- 
longing to  the  land-owning  class.  If  our  hypothetical  author  is  not 
the  son  of  a  landlord,  he  must  be  the  son  or  grandson  of  a  Church 
of  Ireland  clergyman,  like  O'Grady,  Yeats,  Hyde  and  Synge.  If  of 
clerical  descent,  he  is  almost  certain  to  have  attended  Trinity  Col- 
lege, Dublin  (O'Grady,  Hyde,  Synge).  He  is  more  at  home  in  the 
countryside  or  in  Dublin  than  in  the  provincial  towns  and  cities, 
and  has  lived  or  studied  for  some  time  outside  Ireland.  His  po- 
litical views  may  belong  anywhere  from  extreme  Toryism  left- 
wards, so  long  as  they  stop  short  of  physical-force  separatism,  which 
would  involve  his  seeking  the  blood  of  his  friends  and  relations. 
Oddly,  even  if  his  politics  are  nationalist,  he  plays  no  part  in  the 
Irish  Parliamentary  Party's  efficient  machine.  He  usually  draws  his 
subject-matter  from  the  myths,  legends,  folklore  and  history  of 
Ireland's  past  rather  than  from  contemporary  Irish  life.  If  he  can- 
not make  his  living  by  writing  or  allied  pursuits  like  editing,  he 
does  not  seek  another  form  of  livelihood,  but  makes  up  the  deficit 
with  income  from  land  or  investments  which  he  has  inherited. 
(These  generalizations  do  not  apply  to  writers  born  in  the 
province  of  Ulster,  where  a  different  social  pattern  already  existed. 
AE  and  Shan  F.  Bullock,  both  Protestants,  came  of  tenant-farming 


XV111  INTRODUCTION^ 

rather  than  land-owning  parents;  they  had  to  earn  their  own  livings 
from  an  early  age,  so  that  writing  was  for  them  an  avocation. ) 

In  contrast,  the  typical  writer  to  win  a  reputation  in  the  years 
1905-25  is  born  into  a  Catholic  family.  Among  the  writers  of  that 
generation  included  in  this  anthology  there  are  only  two  excep- 
tions to  this  rule,  Sean  O'Casey  and  James  Stephens;  Lennox 
Robinson  would  be  another;  others  would  be  hard  to  find  outside 
the  ranks  of  the  poets.  Our  author  may  have  been  born  in 
Dublin,  like  Joyce,  O'Casey  and  Pearse,  but  is  more  likely  to  have 
seen  the  light  in  Cork  or  some  little  country  town  (Colum, 
O'Kelly,  Connolly).  He  may  or  may  not  have  had  a  college  edu- 
cation, but  it  is  a  better  than  even  chance  that  he  must  sooner  or 
later  earn  his  entire  livelihood  for  a  period  as  a  primary — or  second- 
ary— school  teacher  (Joyce,  Pearse,  Corkery).  He  has  been  at 
some  time  an  enthusiastic  member  of  the  Gaelic  League,  is  prob- 
ably a  member  or  fellow-traveler  of  Sinn  Fein,  and,  if  he  also  be- 
longs to  the  Volunteers  or  the  Citizen  Army,  stands  a  reasonable 
chance  of  dying  a  violent  death,  like  Pearse  and  Connolly.  The 
writers  of  the  previous  generation  would  regard  him  as  coming,  at 
best,  from  the  lower  middle  class.  He  may  regard  himself  (Con- 
nolly, O'Casey)  as  belonging  to  the  working  class.  Whatever  his 
background,  he  has  got  to  earn  his  living. 

If  his  artistic  life  runs  true  to  type,  he  will  be  a  playwright,  or  at 
least  write  one  play.  Even  Pearse,  included  here  for  his  political 
writings,  wrote  several  plays.  The  Abbey  Theatre  dominates  the 
cultural  landscape  in  this  generation,  only  to  lose  its  commanding 
position  in  the  next.  Our  writer  will  draw  his  material  from  con- 
temporary life,  of  which  he  is  likely  to  be  extremely  critical. 

Much  that  has  been  said  of  the  writer  of  1905-25  is  true  of  his 
successor  who  came  into  prominence  in  the  period  1925-50.  He  is 
typically  a  Catholic,  born  into  a  family  more  poor  than  rich;  the 
small  towns,  however,  are  on  the  wane.  If  he  was  not  born  in 
Dublin  or  Cork,  the  chances  are  that  he  was  born  on  a  small  farm 
(O'Flaherty,  Kavanagh).  He  may  even  have  been  a  native  speaker 
of  Gaelic  like  Liam  O'Flaherty;  at  any  rate  he  probably  possesses  a 
fluency  in  spoken  Irish  that  even  the  fanatical  Gaels  of  earlier  gen- 
erations might  envy. 

The  writers  of  this  third  literary  generation  who  were  old 
enough  at  the  time  all  took  the  De  Valera  (Republican)  side  in 
the  Civil  War;  when  their  cause  was  defeated,  several  of  them 


INTRODUCTION  XIX 

(O'Faolain,  O'Connor,  Francis  Stuart)  spent  some  time  in  prison. 
Failure  must  have  been  hard  to  accept  in  those  days,  when  we 
realize  that  almost  all  the  earlier  movements  described  above  had 
met  with  astonishing  success;  thus  we  can  say  of  the  typical  au- 
thor of  this  period  that  he  is  likely  to  be  a  disillusioned  realist  or 
else  prone  to  resolve  the  contradictions  of  the  real  world  by  trans- 
planting them  to  a  realm  of  comic  fantasy.  He  may  possibly  have 
Socialist  sympathies,  be  a  'bad  Catholic,'  and  have  had  at  least 
one  of  his  books  banned  in  the  Republic  of  Ireland.  Writing  of  one 
kind  or  another,  eked  out  with  a  certain  number  of  radio  talks,  may 
well  provide  him  with  his  entire  living,  though  many  writers  still 
do,  or  have  done,  their  stint  as  teachers  (O'Faolain,  McLaverty, 
Clarke).  Novels  and  volumes  of  short  stories  are  likely  to  outnum- 
ber plays  and  books  of  verse  in  his  creative  output.  If  he  has  to 
earn  his  living  solely  by  writing,  his  non-fiction  titles  may  eventu- 
ally outnumber  all  the  rest  put  together.  In  fact,  the  Irish  writer  of 
today  does  not  differ  markedly  from  his  counterpart  in  other  coun- 
tries. He  regards  his  writing  as  a  job,  a  profession;  the  amateurism 
of  the  early  Revival,  when  writing  was  either  a  vocation  or  an 
avocation,  has  become  a  thing  of  the  past.  Much  of  the  earlier  writ- 
ing undeniably  bore  the  marks  of  its  non-professional  origin,  but 
an  astonishingly  large  proportion  of  it  succeeded  in  being  amateur 
without  being  amateurish. 

The  Anglo-Irish  of  the  privileged  classes,  who  initiated  the  Liter- 
ary Revival,  could  not  expect  to  retain  permanently  the  cultural 
leadership  that  they  had  assumed  in  the  movement's  early  days. 
What  they  could  and  did  do — Synge  perhaps  most  successfully  of  all 
— was  to  provide  models  that  the  Catholic  Irish  author  could  feel 
were  native  to  Ireland  and  worthy  of  imitation.  Even  Joyce,  who 
scorned  purely  Irish  models  in  favor  of  European  ones,  learned 
more  than  he  was  prepared  to  admit  from  Yeats  and  Synge.  You 
will  find  their  cadences  in  Finnegans  Wake  if  you  read  it  aloud; 
nor  should  we  forget  that  Joyce  thought  it  worth  while  to  translate 
into  Italian  Yeats'  The  Countess  Cathleen  and  Synge's  Riders  to  the 
Sea. 


XX  INTRODUCTION 

IV 

The  literary  movement  which  these  forces  and  these  writers  pro- 
duced is  unique,  if  only  for  the  fact  that  it  achieved  two  things 
which  could  easily  have  cancelled  each  other.  It  made  articulate 
the  ideals  of  a  people  who  were  in  the  process  of  achieving  political 
independence  and  of  re-establishing  their  national  identity,  and  at 
the  same  time  it  produced  a  literature  capable  of  commanding  re- 
spect independently  of  its  geographical  and  political  orientation. 
One  does  not  need  to  be  Irish  or  care  a  hoot  for  the  most  distressful 
country  that  ever  yet  was  seen  to  realize  that  the  Irish  Literary 
Revival  marks  one  of  those  rare  moments  in  history  when  the 
writers  were  equal  to  the  times  and  the  times  were  worthy  of  the 
writers. 

'A  healthy  nation/  wrote  Bernard  Shaw  in  1906,  'is  as  uncon- 
scious of  its  nationality  as  a  healthy  man  of  his  bones.  But  if  you 
break  a  nation's  nationality  it  will  think  of  nothing  else  but  getting 
it  set  again/  Small  wonder  that  nationalism,  the  chief  concern  of 
the  nation,  became  the  chief  inspiration  of  its  writers.  And  yet  the 
writers  of  the  Revival  managed  to  avoid  the  fate  which  befell  the 
poets  of  The  Nation — nationalists  of  a  previous  generation — who 
were  similarly  motivated:  they  inspired  an  insurgent  nation  by 
epitomizing  its  ideals,  but  they  never  became  its  propagandists.  In 
fact  they  sometimes  challenged  the  nationalist  and  his  methods. 
The  leading  character  in  Sean  O'Casey's  The  Shadow  of  a  Gunman 
says,  T  draw  the  line  when  I  hear  the  gunmen  blowin'  about  dyin' 
for  the  people,  when  it's  the  people  that  are  dyin'  for  the  gunmen! 
With  all  due  respect  for  the  gunmen,  I  don't  want  them  to  die  for 
me.' 

This  note  of  scepticism  toward  nationalist  ideals,  so  conspicuous 
in  a  literature  essentially  nationalistic,  did  not  escape  the  notice  of 
friend  or  enemy.  John  Eglinton,  himself  a  product  of  the  move- 
ment, remarked  that  after  1916,  the  year  of  the  Easter  Rising,  the 
Irish  people  did  not  wish  to  have  their  name  associated  with  the 
so-called  Irish  Renaissance.  From  the  enemy  camp  the  Chief  Sec- 
retary for  Ireland,  testifying  before  a  Royal  Commission  set  up  in 
1916  to  investigate  the  causes  of  the  Easter  Rising,  pointed  out 
that  while  the  writers  on  the  whole  fueled  the  fire  that  burned  in 
Irish  hearts  for  a  free  Ireland,  at  the  same  time  they  'made  fun  of 
mad  political  enterprises  and  lashed  with  savage  satire  some  histor- 


INTRODUCTION  XXI 

ical  aspects  of  the  Irish  Revolutionary.  .  .  .  This  critical  tone  and 
temper  was  the  deadly  foe  of  that  wild  sentimental  passion  which 
has  once  more  led  too  many  brave  young  fellows  to  a  certain  doom 
in  the  belief  that  any  revolution  in  Ireland  is  better  than  none.'  And 
he  added  that  if  the  World  War  had  not  intervened,  this  new  criti- 
cal temper  might  have  prevailed  to  convince  the  people  of  the 
madness  of  insensate  revolt.  One  can  only  add  that  such  confidence 
in  the  power  of  poets  to  convince  revolutionists  must  have  been 
rare  in  English  officials. 

The  writers,  it  seemed,  were  fighting  their  own  war  of  independ- 
ence in  liberating  themselves  from  the  role  of  propagandist  which 
they  felt  had  been  thrust  upon  them  by  circumstance  and  tradition. 
How  else  can  one  explain  their  determination  to  cut  loose  from 
the  romantic  conception  of  Ireland  which  they  inherited  from  writ- 
ers of  previous  generations.  For  example,  where  popular  poets  of 
the  nineteenth  century  wrote  patriotic  love  lyrics  to  Cathleen  Ni 
Houlihan,  the  traditional  symbol  of  Ireland,  writers  of  the  twenti- 
eth century  too  frequently  wrote  of  her  in  the  mood  of  Stephen 
Dedalus,  who  called  her  'an  old  sow  that  eats  her  farrow.'  There 
is  a  great  gap  between  James  Clarence  Mangan's  immortal  'Dark 
Rosaleen/ 

My  Dark  Rosaleen! 

My  own  Rosaleen! 
To  hear  your  sweet  and  sad  complaints, 
My  life,  my  love,  my  saint  of  saints, 

My  Dark  Rosaleen! 


and  Louis  MacNeice's  insolent  lines  about  the  same  lady: 

She  is  both  a  bore  and  a  bitch; 

Better  close  the  horizon, 
Send  her  no  more  fantasy,  no  more  longings  which 

Are  under  a  fatal  tariff. 
For  common  sense  is  the  vogue 

And  she  gives  her  children  neither  sense  nor  money 
Who  slouch  around  the  world  with  a  gesture  and  a  brogue 

And  a  faggot  of  useless  memories. 


James  Joyce,  going  further  in  this  as  in  most  things,  portrayed 
Cathleen  as  the  milk  woman  of  Ulysses,  with  old  shrunken  paps, 
serving  Haines  and  Mulligan,  'Her  conqueror  and  her  gay  be- 
trayer, their  common  cuckquean,'  and  probably  as  Kate  Strong 


XX11  INTRODUCTION 

the  scavenger  woman  of  Finnegans  Wake,  whose  cottage  is  full  of 
'Droppings  of  biddies,  stinkend  pusshies,  moggies  duggies,  rotten 
witchawubbles,  festering  rubbages  and  beggars  bullets.' 

This  repudiation  of  the  cult  of  Cathleen  reminds  one  of  what 
Larry  Doyle  in  John  Bull's  Other  Island  says  about  his  fellow  coun- 
tryman. 'He  can't  be  intelligently  political:  he  dreams  of  what  the 
Shan  Van  Vocht  said  in  ninety-eight.  If  you  want  to  interest  him 
in  Ireland  you've  got  to  call  the  unfortunate  island  Kathleen  ni 
Hoolihan  and  pretend  she's  a  little  old  woman.  It  saves  thinking.  It 
saves  working.  It  saves  everything  except  imagination.'  Modern 
Irish  writers  have  something  of  Larry  Doyle's  power  of  facing 
facts.  If  Cathleen  Ni  Houlihan  sometimes  impresses  them  as  being 
'an  oul'  bitch,'  they  prefer  to  call  her  just  that. 

Another  function  which  they  accepted  unwillingly,  if  they  ever 
accepted  it,  was  the  defense  of  the  national  character.  They  were 
expected  to  proclaim  to  the  world  that  the  'stage  Irishman'  of 
tradition  was  a  lie,  or  at  least  a  travesty  of  the  national  character. 
But  while  they  effectively  demolished  the  myth  of  the  'stage  Irish- 
man,' they  proceeded  to  create  caricatures,  when  it  pleased  them, 
which  were  hardly  much  different  from  what  they  had  demol- 
ished. Consequently  Synge's  patricidal  Playboy  and  the  wastrels  of 
O'Casey's  plays  and  O'Flaherty's  stories  of  Dublin  slum  life  were 
considered  strange  contributions  to  a  literature  which  was  expected 
to  tell  the  world  that  all  Irishmen  were  not  ludicrous  plowboys  and 
bog-trotting  Jeeter  Lesters.  And  the  price  which  had  to  be  paid  for 
this  'irresponsibility'  was  the  Playboy  riots,  the  'demonstrations' 
over  O'Casey's  The  Plough  and  the  Stars,  and  the  hostility  of 
many  American-Irish — ipsis  Hibernicis  Hiberniores — who  insisted 
on  evaluating  Christy  Mahon,  Joxer  Daly,  and  Gypo  Nolan  not 
as  artistic  creations  but  in  terms  of  the  effect  they  might  have 
upon  audiences  outside  Ireland.  Small  wonder  that  some  of  the 
writers  have  been  denounced  not  as  bad  writers  but  as  bad  Irish- 
men, who  have  done  a  disservice  to  their  country. 

One  gets  a  clear  idea  of  the  intensity  of  this  pressure  upon  the 
writers  in  William  Carleton,  an  Irish  novelist  of  a  hundred  years 
ago,  in  whose  Traits  and  Stories  of  the  Irish  Peasantry,  as  Daniel 
Corkery  has  said,  under-educated  Ireland  discovered  its  own  image. 
Carleton  was  quite  as  sensitive  as  any  Irishman  of  his  time  to  the 
ridicule  implicit  in  the  traditional  treatment  of  Irish  character  on 
the  English  stage.  But  as  a  novelist  he  complained  about  what  he 


INTRODUCTION  XX111 

called  the  'pseudo-patriots'  who  were  'of  the  opinion  that  every 
writer,  professing  to  depict  our  national  character  and  manners, 
should  make  it  a  point  of  conscience  to  suppress  all  that  is  calcu- 
lated to  "lessen  us  in  the  eyes  of  the  world,"  as  they  are  pleased 
to  term  it,  and  only  to  give  to  the  public  the  bright  and  favourable 
side.  It  is  unnecessary  to  dwell  upon  the  moral  dishonesty  and 
meanness  of  a  principle,  at  once  so  disgraceful  to  literature  and  so 
repugnant  to  truth.'  It  remains  only  to  be  said  that,  despite  his  de- 
fiance, Carleton  himself  at  times  gave  way  to  the  'pseudo-patriots' 
whose  influence  he  deplored. 

In  fairness  to  the  'pseudo-patriots'  it  should  be  said  that  the 
Irish,  who  have  lived  through  centuries  of  political  indignity  and  of 
seeing  themselves  represented  in  caricatures,  have  a  justifiable  re- 
sentment at  being  laughed  at  through  'foreign  jaws'  or,  what  is 
worse,  through  the  jaws  of  the  native  writer  writing  for  an  English 
public  to  whom  such  caricatures  were  amusing.  Therefore  it  is 
sometimes  difficult  for  them  to  realize  that  it  is  more  important  in 
our  time,  when  nobody  cares  much  about  small  nations  anyway, 
that  Ireland  should  produce  a  writer  of  genius  like  Synge,  even  if 
lie  took  for  his  theme  'the  villainy  of  Mayo  and  the  fools  that  is 
there,'  than  a  hundred  poets  like  the  one  who  wrote  'Bless  the 
Dear  Old  Verdant  Land.'  Today  students  in  American  universities 
and  people  of  culture  everywhere  are  interested  in  modern  Irish 
literature  not  because  it  either  flatters  or  lessens  the  Irish  in  the 
eyes  of  the  world,  but  because  its  achievement  is  formidable  and 
significant.  It  produced  two  dramatists  of  genius  in  Synge  and 
O'Casey,  the  most  original  and  most  controversial  novelist  of  our 
generation  in  Joyce,  and  William  Butler  Yeats,  whom  T.  S.  Eliot 
described  as  'the  greatest  poet  of  our  time.' 

Although  the  writers  of  the  Revival  who  were  of  Ascendancy 
stock  were  at  times  critical  of  revolutionary  methods,  refused  to 
look  at  Ireland  through  the  sentimental  mist  of  tradition,  and  con- 
sidered themselves  as  something  more  than  mere  adjuncts  of  a  po- 
litical movement,  they  were  basically  sympathetic  to  nationalist 
ideals  and  in  touch  with  the  march  of  historical  events.  Being  Irish- 
men all,  they  had  a  singleness  of  purpose  which  seemed  at  times 
to  have  been  compounded  of  a  medley  of  opposites.  Yeats  censured 
Maude  Gonne's  revolutionary  zeal  because  she  'taught  to  ignorant 
men  most  violent  ways';  he  lashed  out  at  Paudeen,  and  called  Ire- 
land a  'blind  bitter  land.'  But  he  also  wrote  Cathleen  Ni  Houli- 


XXIV  introduction: 

han,  saw  Pearse  summoning  Cuchulain  to  his  side  in  the  terrible- 
beauty  that  was  born  in   1916,  and  insisted  on  being  accounted 

True  brother  of  a  company 

That  sang,  to  sweeten  Ireland's  wrong.  .  .  . 

It  was  his  achievement  that  he  was  able  to  discriminate  between 
political  and  literary  ideals.  He  could  acknowledge  the  accomplish- 
ment of  The  Young  Irelanders,  the  poets  of  The  Nation,  who  were 
the  real  founders  of  modern  Irish  literature  because  they  wrote  for 
Irishmen  on  the  basis  of  their  own  culture.  But  at  the  same  time 
he  could  reject  their  influence  because  they  subordinated  literary  to 
political  ideals  and  in  the  end  amounted  to  inferior  poets.  Yeats, 
was  right, 

Because,  to  him  who  ponders  well, 
My  rhymes  more  than  their  rhyming  tell 
Of  things  discovered  in  the  deep, 
Where  only  body's  laid  asleep. 

Daniel  Corkery  has  defined  Irish  literature  as  'the  literature 
written  in  the  Irish  language  and  that  alone';  in  his  terminology 
all  the  selections  we  have  included  in  this  book  would  be  rated 
'Anglo-Irish/  though  less  than  half  of  them  were  written  by 
Anglo-Irish  authors.  This  leads  us  to  the  paradoxical  conclusion 
that  the  literature  which  expresses  to  the  full  the  richness  and  tu- 
mult and  glory  of  Irish  life  over  the  past  seventy  years — years  dur- 
ing which  Ireland  made  greater  contributions  to  Western  civiliza- 
tion than  at  any  time  since  the  beginning  of  the  Danish  invasions 
— does  not  itself  deserve  to  be  called  Irish.  Anybody  who  confined 
his  reading  about  this  period  to  works  originally  written  in  Gaelic 
would  form  a  very  meager  idea  indeed  of  its  true  depth  and  com- 
plexity. Ignoring  Gaelic  culture,  as  the  Anglo-Irish  did  for  so  long, 
certainly  impoverished  Irish  life  to  a  degree  that  made  literature 
or  any  other  contribution  to  civilization  by  Ireland  next  to  impossi- 
ble; but  to  ignore  that  part  of  Ireland's  heritage  which  finds  expres- 
sion in  the  English  language  would  be  an  equal  or  even  greater 
impoverishment.  Ireland  is  not  yet  so  rich  in  culture  that  she  can 
afford  to  throw  any  of  her  inheritance  away:  Irish  and  British  be- 
tween them  have  squandered  enough  of  it  already.  Ireland's  great- 
est age  in  the  past  resulted  from  the  marriage  of  two  very  different 


INTRODUCTION  XXV 

cultures — Latin  Christianity  and  Gaelic  paganism :  is  it  then  shame- 
ful to  admit  that  her  greatest  age  in  modern  times  flowered  from 
the  cross-fertilization  of  Catholic  Gaeldom  with  Protestant  Eng- 
lishry?  Nowhere  else  in  Europe,  perhaps  nowhere  in  the  world, 
have  Protestantism  and  Catholicism  come  to  terms  with  such 
happy  results — each  borrowing  the  virtues  of  the  other — as  they 
did  in  Southern  Ireland  within  the  period  covered  by  this  book. 


The  first  section  of  this  book  takes  its  title  from  'To  the  Rose 
upon  the  Rood  of  Time,' 

I  would  before  my  time  to  go 

Sing  of  Old  Eire  and  the  ancient  ways 

and  celebrates  the  discovery  of  the  Celtic  past  by  offering,  after 
Yeats'  Cathleen  Ni  Houlihan,  Standish  O'Grady's  renderings  from  the 
Red  Branch  (or  Ulster)  cycle  of  heroic  tales  which  center  on  the  hero 
Cuchulain,  and  his  essay  on  the  bardic  history  of  Ireland.  The  effect 
these  translations  had  upon  the  early  writers  of  the  Revival  is  ac- 
knowledged by  AE's  tribute  to  O'Grady:  It  was  he  who  made  me 
proud  and  conscious  of  my  country/  Lady  Gregory's  Cuchulain  of 
Muirthemne,  which  Synge  described  as  'part  of  my  daily  bread,'  gives 
us  our  next  selection — 'The  Fate  of  the  Sons  of  Usnach' — also  taken 
from  the  Red  Branch  cycle.  For  a  freer  use  of  Celtic  mythology  we 
offer  James  Stephens'  portrayal  of  the  victory  of  Angus  Og  over  Pan, 
the  Celtic  god  of  love  over  the  Greek,  in  the  contention  for  the 
hand  of  Caitilin,  from  The  Crock  of  Gold.  Douglas  Hyde's  lecture 
delivered  before  The  Irish  Literary  Society  in  1892  on  'The  Ne- 
cessity for  De-Anglicising  Ireland'  advocates  a  more  pedestrian 
kind  of  return  to  the  Celtic  past  by  urging  Irishmen  to  stop  aping 
English  manners  and  Anglicizing  their  names.  Such  a  selection,  we 
felt,  would  best  illustrate  Hyde's  role  as  grass-roots  propagandist  of 
the  Gaelic  revival. 

The  title  of  the  second  section  comes  from  Tn  Memory  of  Ma- 
jor Robert  Gregory,' 

And  that  enquiring  man  John  Synge  comes  next, 
That  dying  chose  the  living  world  for  text. 


XXVI  INTRODUCTION 

Here  the  interest  is  not  in  the  dead  Ireland  of  Cuchulain  and  An- 
gus Og  but  the  living  Ireland  of  the  average  Irishman — the  coun- 
tryman in  Synge,  Shan  F.  Bullock,  and  Daniel  Corkery,  the  country 
priest  in  George  Moore's  'A  Letter  to  Rome/  or  Joyce's  Dublin- 
ers  fighting  over  the  ghost  of  Parnell.  The  selection  from  Hail  and 
Farewell  is  offered  not  only  because  it  gives  a  truer  picture  of 
Moore's  position  than  his  short  story  but  because  it  is  obviously  as 
artful  a  work  of  fiction  as  any  short  story  he  wrote. 
In  'Our  Own  Red  Blood,'  its  title  from  'The  Rose  Tree/ 

'But  where  can  we  draw  water/ 
Said  Pearse  to  Connolly, 
"When  all  the  wells  are  parched  away? 
O  plain  as  plain  can  be 
There's  nothing  but  our  own  red  blood 
Can  make  a  right  Rose  Tree,' 


we  have  a  further  kind  of  de-Anglicization— revolution:  AE's  two 
important  utterances  on  the  great  Dublin  strike  of  1913,  which  has 
been  called  the  first  step  on  the  road  to  Easter  Week;  Padraic 
Pearse's  two  notable  speeches;  James  Connolly's  famous  editorial 
in  The  Workers'  Republic  which  called  for  revolution  so  emphati- 
cally that  he  had  to  be  kidnapped  by  the  IRB  and  prevented  from 
letting  the  cat  out  of  the  bag;  and  the  Proclamation  of  the  Irish 
Republic,  probably  composed  by  Pearse  and  Connolly.  Sean 
O'Casey's  The  Shadow  of  a  Gunman  needs  no  comment  beyond 
the  fact  that  it  dramatized  the  trench-coated  figure  in  the  slouch 
hat.  The  same  figure  appears  in  Elizabeth  Bowen's  'An  Evening 
in  Anglo-Ireland  with  Undertones  of  War,'  our  title  for  a  selection 
from  her  novel  The  Last  September,  and  in  Sean  O'Faolain's 
'Midsummer  Night  Madness,'  both  of  which  describe  the  impact 
of  revolution  upon  the  Big  House,  as  O'Casey  describes  its  effect 
on  the  slums.  Edward  Sheehy's  story  'God  Send  Sunday,'  which 
has  not  previously  been  published  in  this  country,  deals  with  the 
period  of  the  Civil  War. 

In  the  next  section  it  is  not  only  upon  love's  bitter  mystery  that 
men  brood,  as  in  'Who  Goes  With  Fergus?' 

And  no  more  turn  aside  and  brood 
Upon  love's  bitter  mystery  .  .  . 


INTRODUCTION 


but  upon  the  new  Ireland  which  some  of  them  have  viewed  with 
disillusionment.  Liam  O'Flaherty,  best  known  in  this  country  for 
the  movie  which  John  Ford  made  of  The  Informer — not  the  best  of 
his  novels — is  represented  by  his  story  'Going  Into  Exile/  with  its 
picture  of  an  Irish  mother  who  watches  her  son  and  daughter  dis- 
appearing down  the  road  on  their  way  to  exile  in  the  New 
World.  'The  Wounded  Cormorant'  is  one  of  O'Flaherty's  animal 
sketches,  which  are  distinguished  from  his  other  works  mostly  by 
the  fact  that  they  deal  directly  with  animals  and  not  with  the  ani- 
mal in  man.  Austin  Clarke's  'Gormlai  and  Cormac,'  our  title  for 
a  passage  taken  from  his  prose  romance  The  Singing  Men  at 
Cashel,  is  medieval  in  setting,  like  so  much  of  his  work,  but  has 
a  modern  application,  one  gathers.  Frank  O'Connor's  'Bridal 
Night'  has,  in  addition  to  pathos,  a  note  of  impatience  with  Irish 
rural  life,  as  does  'Six  Weeks  on  and  Two  Ashore'  by  Michael 
McLaverty,  a  Catholic  from  Ulster.  Francis  Stuart's  'The  Varied 
Shapes  of  Violence'  is  from  his  best  novel  Redemption  and  has 
for  its  setting  Ireland  after  World  War  II. 

In  the  next  section,  'Where  Motley  Is  Worn,'  its  title  from 
'Easter  1916,'  t«he  bitterness  has  yielded  to  humor,  though  it  is 
frequently  pointed  with  satire  and  even  mockery.  Somerville  and 
Ross,  who  seem  to  have  been  oblivious  to  the  Literary  Revival, 
lead  off  with  a  story  from  The  Experiences  of  an  Irish  R.  M.  'The 
Holy  Island'  should  prove  that  Somerville  and  Ross  had  an  under- 
standing of  the  peasant's  attitude  toward  the  law  which  Mr.  Yeates 
their  hero  seems  never  to  have  acquired.  James  Stephens'  'The 
Unworthy  Princess'  distils  all  the  calculated  naivete  which  is  his 
hallmark.  Seumas  O'Kelly's  'The  Man  With  The  Gift,'  while  not 
as  well  known  as  'The  Weaver's  Grave,'  has  a  slyness  all  its  own. 
'First  Confession,'  from  Frank  O'Connor's  most  recent  collection 
of  short  stories,  is  offered  because  it  exhibits  another  side  of  his 
talent — an  ability  to  write  farce.  No  anthology  of  Irish  writing 
would  be  complete  without  something  from  Oliver  St.  John 
Gogarty:  'Tall  Hats  and  Churns'  is  our  title  for  a  selection  from 
As  I  Was  Going  Down  Sackville  Street.  Patrick  Kavanagh's  'The 
Grey  Dawn,'  from  his  autobiography  The  Green  Fool,  is,  we  think, 
something  of  a  documentary.  Margaret  Barrington's  'Village 
Without  Men'  is  a  visualization  of  another  Danish  invasion  of  Ire- 
land. Myles  na  gCopaleen's  'Drink  and  Time  in  Dublin   was  in- 


XXV111  INTRODUCTION 

spired  by  the  movie  The  Lost  Weekend.  Myles  na  gCopaleen 
( Myles  of  the  little  horses )  is  a  pen  name,  snatched  from  the  pages 
of  The  Collegians,  of  Gerald  Griffin,  by  Brian  O'Nolan,  alias  (also) 
Flann  O'Brien,  who  writes  a  humorous  column  in  The  Irish  Times. 
The   title   of   the  last   section  is   from   'Sailing   to   Byzantium,' 

That  is  no  country  for  old  men.  The  young 
In  one  another's  arms,  birds  in  the  trees  .  .  . 


The  'young'  represented  in  this  section  are  experimenters.  The 
group  is  headed,  naturally,  by  Joyce  who,  according  to  the  story, 
may  have  come  too  late  to  influence  Yeats,  but  not  Flann  O'Brien, 
whose  At  Swim-Two-Birds,  a  book-within-a-book-within-a-book, 
gives  us  'Mad  Sweeny  versus  Jem  Casey/  The  title  of  our  last 
item,  The  Resurrection,  suggests  to  us  at  least  the  possibility  that 
if  romantic  Ireland  did  not  die  with  O'Leary,  it  did  with  Yeats;  and 
that  if  in  the  Ireland  of  today  'conduct  and  work  grow  coarse,  and 
coarse  the  soul' — to  misapply  a  line  from  one  of  his  last  poems — 
there  are,  as  Myles  na  gCopaleen  remarked,  other  Toms,  other 
Moores,  and  one  can  hope  that  another  Literary  Revival  is  just 
around  the  corner. 

Now  for  some  apologies,  or  at  least  explanations.  We  are  aware 
that  in  order  to  give  substantial  space  to  our  thirty  writers  we 
had  to  exclude  many  others  who  deserve  to  be  included.  The  most 
obvious  omission  is  Paul  Vincent  Carroll.  But  three-act  plays  are 
the  affliction  of  all  anthologists,  and  neither  Shadow  and  Substance 
nor  The  White  Steed  could  be  accommodated.  The  same  thing  was 
true  of  Lennox  Robinson  and  Denis  Johnston.  We  would  also  have 
liked  to  include  a  part  of  John  Bull's  Other  Island,  but  Shaw  al- 
ways refused  to  allow  any  of  his  work  to  be  anthologized. 

As  for  ignoring,  in  our  political  section,  De  Valera,  Arthur  Grif- 
fith, and  Michael  Collins,  we  have  little  to  explain.  Both  Griffith 
and  Collins  were  more  than  articulate,  but  Griffith's  best  writing 
never  rose  above  ad  hoc  journalism,  and  Collins  was  dead  before 
he  had  had  a  chance  to  express  himself  adequately.  Mr.  De  Valera's 
famous  radio  talk  in  defense  of  Irish  wartime  neutrality,  however 
impressive  it  may  have  sounded  when  he  delivered  it,  does  not 
seem  so  impressive  when  seen  in  type. 

We  have  not  included  any  translations  from  contemporary 
Gaelic  prose  because  we  have  found  no  qualities  in  such  transla- 


INTRODUCTION  XXIX 

tions  that  are  not  already  present  in  the  English  originals  of  certain 
bilingual  authors.  The  Irish  of  Padraic  O  Conaire,  for  instance,  has 
won  high  praise  for  its  colloquial  vigor,  but  the  available  transla- 
tions sound  academic  and  stilted.  Maurice  O'Sullivan's  autobio- 
graphic Twenty  Years  A-Growing  lost  none  of  its  vitality  in  trans- 
lation, but  there  is  little  in  the  life  it  describes  that  is  unfamiliar  to 
readers  of  Liam  O'Flaherty. 

If  our  readers  should  wonder  why,  having  included  Ireland's  'Dec- 
laration of  Independence,'  the  1916  Proclamation  of  the  Irish  Re- 
public, we  have  not  included  the  preamble  to  Ireland's  constitu- 
tion, we  can  only  say  that  the  government  of  southern  Ireland 
adopted  two  constitutions  during  its  first  twenty  years  and  neither 
was  accepted  by  the  people  with  anything  approaching  unanimity. 
Probably  no  Irish  children  have  ever  been  made  to  learn  the  pre- 
amble of  either.  What  Irish  children  do  learn  by  heart — Emmet's 
speech  from  the  dock — awaits  our  next  volume. 

David  H.  Greene 
Vivian   Mercier 


Part  I 

OLD  EIRE  AND 
THE  ANCIENT  WAYS 


1  would,  before  my  time  to  go, 
Sing  of  Old  Eire  and  the  ancient  ways  .  . 
W.  B.  Yeats 


WILLIAM     BUTLER    YEATS 

Cathleen  Ni  Houlihan1 


CHARACTERS 

Peter  Gillane 

Michael  Gillane his  son,  going  to  be  married 

Patrick  Gillane a  lad  of  twelve,  Michael's  brother 

Bridget  Gillane Peter  s  wife 

Delia  Cahel engaged  to  Michael 

The  Poor  Old  Woman 
Neighrours 

Scene.  Interior  of  a  cottage  close  to  Killala,  in  1798.  rridget  is  standing  at 
a  table  undoing  a  parcel,  peter  is  sitting  at  one  side  of  the  fire,  Patrick  at  the 
other. 

Peter.  What  is  that  sound  I  hear? 

Patrick.  I  don't  hear  anything.  [He  listens]  I  hear  it  now.  It's  like 
cheering.  [He  goes  to  the  window  and  looks  out]  I  wonder  what 
they  are  cheering  about.  I  don't  see  anybody. 

Peter.  It  might  be  a  hurling. 

Patrick.  There's  no  hurling  to-day.  It  must  be  down  in  the  town 
the  cheering  is. 

Bridget.  I  suppose  the  boys  must  be  having  some  sport  of  their 
own.  Come  over  here,  Peter,  and  look  at  Michael's  wedding- 
clothes. 

Peter,  [shifts  his  chair  to  table].  Those  are  grand  clothes,  indeed. 

Bridget.  You  hadn't  clothes  like  that  when  you  married  me,  and 
no  coat  to  put  on  of  a  Sunday  more  than  any  other  day. 

Peter.  That  is  true,  indeed.  We  never  thought  a  son  of  our  own 
would  be  wearing  a  suit  of  that  sort  for  his  wedding,  or  have  so 
good  a  place  to  bring  a  wife  to. 

Patrick,  [who  is  still  at  the  window].  There's  an  old  woman  com- 
ing down  the  road.  I  don't  know  is  it  here  she  is  coming. 

Bridget.  It  will  be  a  neighbour  coming  to  hear  about  Michael's 
wedding.  Can  you  see  who  it  is? 

1  First  performed  April  2,  1902  at  the  Hall  of  St.  Theresa's,  Clarendon  St.,  Dublin,  by 
W.  G.  Fay's  Irish  National  Dramatic  Company. 

3 


4  WILLIAM    BUTLER   YEATS 

Patrick.  I  think  it  is  a  stranger,  but  she's  not  coming  to  the  house. 
She's  turned  into  the  gap  that  goes  down  where  Maurteen  and 
his  sons  are  shearing  sheep.  [He  turns  towards  bridgetJ  Do 
you  remember  what  Winny  of  the  Cross  Roads  was  saying  the 
other  night  about  the  strange  woman  that  goes  through  the 
country  whatever  time  there's  war  or  trouble  coming? 

Bridget.  Don't  be  bothering  us  about  Winny's  talk,  but  go  and  open 
the  door  for  your  brother.  I  hear  him  coming  up  the  path. 

Peter.  I  hope  he  has  brought  Delia's  fortune  with  him  safe,  for  fear 
her  people  might  go  back  on  the  bargain  and  I  after  making  it. 
Trouble  enough  I  had  making  it. 

(patrick  opens  the  door  and  michael  comes  in) 

Bridget.  What  kept  you,  Michael?  We  were  looking  out  for  you 
this  long  time. 

Michael.  I  went  round  by  the  priest's  house  to  bid  him  be  ready  to 
marry  us  to-morrow. 

Bridget.  Did  he  say  anything? 

Michael.  He  said  it  was  a  very  nice  match,  and  that  he  was  never 
better  pleased  to  marry  any  two  in  his  parish  than  myself  and 
Delia  Cahel. 

Peter.  Have  you  got  the  fortune,  Michael? 

Michael.  Here  it  is. 

(michael  puts  hag  on  table  and  goes  over  and  leans  against  chimney-jamb. 
Bridget,  who  has  been  all  this  time  examining  the  clothes,  pulling  the  seams 
and  trying  the  lining  of  the  pockets,  etc.,  puts  the  clothes  on  the  dresser) 

Peter,  [getting  up  and  taking  the  bag  in  his  hand  and  turning  out 
the  money].  Yes,  I  made  the  bargain  well  for  you,  Michael.  Old 
John  Cahel  would  sooner  have  kept  a  share  of  this  a  while 
longer.  'Let  me  keep  the  half  of  it  until  the  first  boy  is  born,' 
says  he.  'You  will  not,'  says  I.  'Whether  there  is  or  is  not  a 
boy,  the  whole  hundred  pounds  must  be  in  Michael's  hands  be- 
fore he  brings  your  daughter  to  the  house.'  The  wife  spoke  to 
him  then,  and  he  gave  in  at  the  end. 

Bridget.  You  seem  well  pleased  to  be  handling  the  money,  Peter. 


CATHLEEN   NI   HOULIHAN  5 

Peter.  Indeed,  I  wish  I  had  had  the  luck  to  get  a  hundred  pounds, 
or  twenty  pounds  itself,  with  the  wife  I  married. 

Bridget.  Well,  if  I  didn't  bring  much  I  didn't  get  much.  What  had 
you  the  day  I  married  you  but  a  flock  of  hens  and  you  feeding 
them,  and  a  few  lambs  and  you  driving  them  to  the  market  at 
Ballina?  [She  is  vexed  and  bangs  a  jug  on  the  dresser]  If  I 
brought  no  fortune,  I  worked  it  out  in  my  bones,  laying  down 
the  baby,  Michael  that  is  standing  there  now,  on  a  stook  of 
straw,  while  I  dug  the  potatoes,  and  never  asking  big  dresses  or 
anything  but  to  be  working. 

Peter.  That  is  true,  indeed. 

( He  pats  her  arm ) 

Bridget.  Leave  me  alone  now  till  I  ready  the  house  for  the  woman 
that  is  to  come  into  it. 

Peter.  You  are  the  best  woman  in  Ireland,  but  money  is  good,  too. 
[He  begins  handling  the  money  again  and  sits  down]  I  never 
thought  to  see  so  much  money  within  my  four  walls.  We  can  do 
great  things  now  we  have  it.  We  can  take  the  ten  acres  of  land 
we  have  the  chance  of  since  Jamsie  Dempsey  died,  and  stock  it. 
We  will  go  to  the  fair  at  Ballina  to  buy  the  stock.  Did  Delia  ask 
any  of  the  money  for  her  own  use,  Michael? 

Michael.  She  did  not,  indeed.  She  did  not  seem  to  take  much  notice 
of  it,  or  to  look  at  it  at  all. 

Bridget.  That's  no  wonder.  Why  would  she  look  at  it  when  she  had 
yourself  to  look  at,  a  fine,  strong  young  man?  It  is  proud  she 
must  be  to  get  you;  a  good  steady  boy  that  will  make  use  of  the 
money,  and  not  be  running  through  it  or  spending  it  on  drink 
like  another. 

Peter.  It's  likely  Michael  himself  was  not  thinking  much  of  the  for- 
tune either,  but  of  what  sort  the  girl  was  to  look  at. 

Michael,  [coming  over  towards  the  table].  Well,  you  would  like  a 
nice  comely  girl  to  be  beside  you,  and  to  go  walking  with  you. 
The  fortune  only  lasts  for  a  while,  but  the  woman  will  be  there 
always. 

Patrick,  [turning   round  from   the   window].    They    are    cheering 


D  WILLIAM    BUTLER   YEATS 

again  down  in  the  town.  Maybe  they  are  landing  horses  from 
Enniscrone.  They  do  be  cheering  when  the  horses  take  the  wa- 
ter well. 

Michael.  There  are  no  horses  in  it.  Where  would  they  be  going  and 
no  fair  at  hand?  Go  down  to  the  town,  Patrick,  and  see  what  is 
going  on. 

Patrick,  [opens  the  door  to  go  out,  but  stops  for  a  moment  on  the 
threshold].  Will  Delia  remember,  do  you  think,  to  bring  the 
greyhound  pup  she  promised  me  when  she  would  be  coming  to 
the  house? 

Michael.  She  will  surely. 

(  Patrick  goes  out,  leaving  the  door  open ) 

Peter.  It  will  be  Patrick's  turn  next  to  be  looking  for  a  fortune, 
but  he  won't  find  it  so  easy  to  get  it  and  he  with  no  place  of  his 
own. 

Bridget.  I  do  be  thinking  sometimes,  now  things  are  going  so  well 
with  us,  and  the  Cahels  such  a  good  back  to  us  in  the  district, 
and  Delia's  own  uncle  a  priest,  we  might  be  put  in  the  way  of 
making  Patrick  a  priest  some  day,  and  he  so  good  at  his  books. 

Peter.  Time  enough,  time  enough.  You  have  always  your  head  full 
of  plans,  Bridget. 

Bridget.  We  will  be  well  able  to  give  him  learning,  and  not  to  send 
him  tramping  the  country  like  a  poor  scholar  that  lives  on  char- 
ity. 

Michael.  They're  not  done  cheering  yet. 

( He  goes  over  to  the  door  and  stands  there  for  a  moment,  putting  up  his  hand 
to  shade  his  eyes) 

Bridget.  Do  you  see  anything? 

Michael.  I  see  an  old  woman  coming  up  the  path. 

Bridget.  Who  is  it,  I  wonder?  It  must  be  the  strange  woman  Pat- 
rick saw  a  while  ago. 

Michael.  I  don't  think  it's  one  of  the  neighbours  anyway,  but  she 
has  her  cloak  over  her  face. 


CATHLEEN    NI   HOULIHAN  7 

Bridget.  It  might  be  some  poor  woman  heard  we  were  making 
ready  for  the  wedding  and  came  to  look  for  her  share. 

Peter.  I  may  as  well  put  the  money  out  of  sight.  There  is  no  use 
leaving  it  out  for  every  stranger  to  look  at. 

( He  goes  over  to  a  large  box  in  the  corner,  opens  it  and  puts  the  bag  in  and 
fumbles  at  the  lock) 

Michael.  There  she  is,  father!  [An  old  woman  passes  the  win- 
dow  slowly.  She  looks  at  michael  as  she  passes]  I'd  sooner  a 
stranger  not  to  come  to  the  house  the  night  before  my  wedding. 

Bridget.  Open  the  door,  Michael;  don't  keep  the  poor  woman  wait- 
ing. 

( The  old  woman  comes  in.  michael  stands  aside  to  make  way  for  her) 

Old  Woman.  God  save  all  here! 

Peter.  God  save  you  kindly! 

Old  Woman.  You  have  good  shelter  here. 

Peter.  You  are  welcome  to  whatever  shelter  we  have. 

Bridget.  Sit  down  there  by  the  fire  and  welcome. 

Old  Woman,  [warming  her  hands].  There  is  a  hard  wind  outside. 

(michael  watches  her  curiously  from  the  door,  peter  comes  over  to  the 
table ) 

Peter.  Have  you  travelled  far  today? 

Old  Woman.  I  have  travelled  far,  very  far;  there  are  few  have  trav- 
elled so  far  as  myself,  and  there's  many  a  one  that  doesn't  make 
me  welcome.  There  was  one  that  had  strong  sons  I  thought  were 
friends  of  mine,  but  they  were  shearing  their  sheep,  and  they 
wouldn't  listen  to  me. 

Peter.  It's  a  pity  indeed  for  any  person  to  have  no  place  of  their 
own. 

Old  Woman.  That's  true  for  you  indeed,  and  it's  long  I'm  on  the 
roads  since  I  first  went  wandering. 

Bridget.  It  is  a  wonder  you  are  not  worn  out  with  so  much  wander- 
ing. 


O  WILLIAM   BUTLER   YEATS 

Old  Woman.  Sometimes  my  feet  are  tired  and  my  hands  are  quiet, 
but  there  is  no  quiet  in  my  heart.  When  the  people  see  me  quiet, 
they  think  old  age  has  come  on  me  and  that  all  the  stir  has  gone 
out  of  me.  But  when  the  trouble  is  on  me  I  must  be  talking  to 
my  friends. 

Bridget.  What  was  it  put  you  wandering? 

Old  Woman.  Too  many  strangers  in  the  house. 

Bridget.  Indeed  you  look  as  if  you'd  had  your  share  of  trouble. 

Old  Woman.  I  have  had  trouble  indeed. 

Bridget.  What  was  it  put  the  trouble  on  you? 

Old  Woman.  My  land  that  was  taken  from  me. 

Peter.  Was  it  much  land  they  took  from  you? 

Old  Woman.  My  four  beautiful  green  fields. 

Peter.  [Aside  to  bridgetJ  Do  you  think  could  she  be  the  widow 
Casey  that  was  put  out  of  her  holding  at  Kilglass  a  while  ago? 

Bridget.  She  is  not.  I  saw  the  widow  Casey  one  time  at  the  market 
in  Ballina,  a  stout  fresh  woman. 

Peter.  [To  old  woman7  Did  you  hear  a  noise  of  cheering,  and  you 
coming  up  the  hill? 

Old  Woman.  I  thought  I  heard  the  noise  I  used  to  hear  when  my 
friends  came  to  visit  me. 

(She  begins  singing  half  to  herself) 

I  will  go  cry  with  the  woman, 
For  yellow-haired  Donough  is  dead, 
With  a  hempen  rope  for  a  neckcloth, 
And  a  white  cloth  on  his  head, — 

Michael,  [coming  from  the  door].  What  is  it  that  you  are  singing, 
ma'am? 

Old  Woman.  Singing  I  am  about  a  man  I  knew  one  time,  yellow- 
haired  Donough  that  was  hanged  in  Galway. 

(She  goes  on  singing,  much  louder) 

I  am  come  to  cry  with  you,  woman, 
My  hair  is  unwound  and  unbound; 


CATHLEEN    NI   HOULIHAN  t) 

I  remember  him  ploughing  his  field, 
Turning  up  the  red  side  of  the  ground, 
And  building  his  barn  on  the  hill 
With  the  good  mortared  stone; 
O!  we'd  have  pulled  down  the  gallows 
Had  it  happened  in  Enniscrone! 

Michael.  What  was  it  brought  him  to  his  death? 

Old  Woman.  He  died  for  love  of  me:  many  a  man  has  died  for 
love  of  me. 

Peter.  [Aside  to  bridgetJ  Her  trouble  has  put  her  wits   astray. 

Michael.  Is  it  long  since  that  song  was  made?  Is  it  long  since  he 
got  his  death? 

Old  Woman.  Not  long,  not  long.  But  there  were  others  that  died 
for  love  of  me  a  long  time  ago. 

Michael.  Were  they  neighbours  of  your  own,  ma'am? 

Old  Woman.  Come  here  beside  me  and  I'll  tell  you  about  them. 
/"michael  sits  down  beside  her  on  the  hearth]  There  was  a  red 
man  of  the  O'Donells  from  the  north,  and  a  man  of  the  O'Sulli- 
vans  from  the  south,  and  there  was  one  Brian  that  lost  his  life  at 
Clontarf  by  the  sea,  and  there  were  a  great  many  in  the  west, 
some  that  died  hundreds  of  years  ago,  and  there  are  some  that 
will  die  to-morrow. 

Michael.  Is  it  in  the  west  that  men  will  die  to-morrow? 

Old  Woman.  Come  nearer,  nearer  to  me. 

Bridget.  Is  she  right,  do  you  think?  Or  is  she  a  woman  from  beyond 
the  world? 

Peter.  She  doesn't  know  well  what  she's  talking  about,  with  the 
want  and  the  trouble  she  has  gone  through. 

Bridget.  The  poor  thing,  we  should  treat  her  well. 

Peter.  Give  her  a  drink  of  milk  and  a  bit  of  the  oaten  cake. 

Bridget.  Maybe  we  should  give  her  something  along  with  that,  to 
bring  her  on  her  way.  A  few  pence,  or  a  shilling  itself,  and  we 
with  so  much  money  in  the  house. 

Peter.  Indeed  I'd  not  begrudge  it  to  her  if  we  had  it  to  spare,  but  if 
we  go  running  through  what  we  have,  we'll  soon  have  to  break 
the  hundred  pounds,  and  that  would  be  a  pity. 


10  WILLIAM   BUTLER   YEATS 

Bridget.  Shame  on  you,  Peter.  Give  her  the  shilling,  and  your  bless- 
ing with  it,  or  our  own  luck  will  go  from  us. 

(  peter  goes  to  the  box  and  takes  out  a  shilling ) 

Bridget.  [To  the  old  woman7  Will  you  have  a  drink  of  milk, 
ma'am? 

Old  Woman.  It  is  not  food  or  drink  that  I  want. 

Peter,  [offering  the  shilling].  Here  is  something  for  you. 

Old  Woman.  That  is  not  what  I  want.  It  is  not  silver  I  want. 

Peter.  What  is  it  you  would  be  asking  for? 

Old  Woman.  If  anyone  would  give  me  help  he  must  give  me  him- 
self, he  must  give  me  all. 

(peter  goes  over  to  the  table  staring  at  the  shilling  in  his  hand  in  a  be- 
wildered way,  and  stands  whispering  to  Bridget) 

Michael.  Have  you  no  one  to  care  for  you  in  your  age,  ma'am? 

Old  Woman.  I  have  not.  With  all  the  lovers  that  brought  me  their 
love  I  never  set  out  the  bed  for  any. 

Michael.  Are  you  lonely  going  the  roads,  ma'am? 

Old  Woman.  I  have  my  thoughts  and  I  have  my  hopes. 

Michael.  What  hopes  have  you  to  hold  to? 

Old  Woman.  The  hope  of  getting  my  beautiful  fields  back  again; 
the  hope  of  putting  the  strangers  out  of  my  house. 

Michael.  What  way  will  you  do  that,  ma'am? 

Old  Woman.  I  have  good  friends  that  will  help  me.  They  are  gath- 
ering to  help  me  now.  I  am  not  afraid.  If  they  are  put  down  to- 
day they  will  get  the  upper  hand  to-morrow.  [She  gets  up]  I 
must  be  going  to  meet  my  friends.  They  are  coming  to  help  me 
and  I  must  be  there  to  welcome  them.  I  must  call  the  neigh- 
bours together  to  welcome  them. 

Michael.  I  will  go  with  you. 

Bridget.  It  is  not  her  friends  you  have  to  go  and  welcome,  Michael; 
it  is  the  girl  coming  into  the  house  you  have  to  welcome.  You 
have  plenty  to  do;  it  is  food  and  drink  you  have  to  bring  to  the 


CATHLEEN    NI   HOULIHAN  11 

house.  The  woman  that  is  coming  home  is  not  coming  with 
empty  hands;  you  would  not  have  an  empty  house  before  her. 
[To  the  old  womanj  Maybe  you  don't  know,  ma'am,  that  my 
son  is  going  to  be  married  to-morrow. 

Old  Woman.  It  is  not  a  man  going  to  his  marriage  that  I  look  to 
for  help. 

Peter.  [To  bridget7.  Who  is  she,  do  you  think,  at  all? 

Bridget.  You  did  not  tell  us  your  name  yet,  ma'am. 

Old  Woman.  Some  call  me  the  Poor  Old  Woman,  and  there  are 
some  that  call  me  Cathleen,  the  daughter  of  Houlihan.1 

Peter.  I  think  I  knew  some  one  of  that  name  once.  Who  was  it,  I 
wonder?  It  must  have  been  some  one  I  knew  when  I  was  a  boy. 
No,  no;  I  remember,  I  heard  it  in  a  song. 

Old  Woman,  [who  is  standing  in  the  doorway].  They  are  wonder- 
ing that  there  were  songs  made  for  me;  there  have  been  many 
songs  made  for  me.  I  heard  one  on  the  wind  this  morning. 

(She  sings) 

Do  not  make  a  great  keening 

When  the  graves  have  been  dug  to-morrow. 

Do  not  call  the  white-scarfed  riders 

To  the  burying  that  shall  be  to-morrow. 

Do  not  spread  food  to  call  strangers 

To  the  wakes  that  shall  be  to-morrow; 

Do  not  give  money  for  prayers 

For  the  dead  that  shall  die  to-morrow  .  .  . 

they  will  have  no  need  of  prayers,  they  will  have  no  need  of 
prayers. 

Michael.  I  do  not  know  what  that  song  means,  but  tell  me  some- 
thing I  can  do  for  you. 

Peter.  Come  over  to  me,  Michael. 

Michael.  Hush,  father,  listen  to  her. 

Old  Woman.  It  is  a  hard  service  they  take  that  help  me.  Many 
that  are  red-cheeked  now  will  be  pale-cheeked;  many  that  have 
been  free  to  walk  the  hills  and  the  bogs  and  the  rushes  will  be 
sent  to  walk  hard  streets  in  far  countries;  many  a  good  plan  will 

1 A  traditional  personification  of  Ireland. 


12  WILLIAM    BUTLER   YEATS 

be  broken;  many  that  have  gathered  money  will  not  stay  to 
spend  it;  many  a  child  will  be  born  and  there  will  be  no  father  at 
its  christening  to  give  it  a  name.  They  that  have  red  cheeks  will 
have  pale  cheeks  for  my  sake,  and  for  all  that,  they  will  think 
they  are  well  paid. 

( She  goes  out;  her  voice  is  heard  outside  singing ) 

They  shall  be  remembered  for  ever, 
They  shall  be  alive  for  ever, 
They  shall  be  speaking  for  ever, 
The  people  shall  hear  them  for  ever. 

Bridget.  [To  peter]  Look  at  him,  Peter;  he  has  the  look  of  a  man 
that  has  got  the  touch.  [Raising  her  voice]  Look  here,  Michael, 
at  the  wedding-clothes.  Such  grand  clothes  as  these  are.  You 
have  a  right  to  fit  them  on  now;  it  would  be  a  pity  to-morrow 
if  they  did  not  fit.  The  boys  would  be  laughing  at  you.  Take 
them,  Michael,  and  go  into  the  room  and  fit  them  on. 

( She  puts  them  on  his  arm ) 

Michael.  What  wedding  are  you  talking  of?  What  clothes  will  I  be 
wearing  to-morrow? 

Bridget.  These  are  the  clothes  you  are  going  to  wear  when  you 
marry  Delia  Cahel  to-morrow. 

Michael.  I  had  forgotten  that. 

(He  looks  at  the  clothes  and  turns  towards  the  inner  room,  but  stops  at  the 
sound  of  cheering  outside) 

Peter.  There  is  the  shouting  come  to  our  own  door.  What  is  it  has 
happened? 

(  Patrick  and  delia  come  in ) 

Patrick.  There  are  ships  in  the  Bay;  the  French  are  landing  at  Kil- 
lala!1 

(peter  takes  his  pipe  from  his  mouth  and  his  hat  off,  and  stands  up.  The 
clothes  slip  from  Michael's  arm) 


1  This  was  the  French  expedition  under  General  Humbert  sent  to  assist  the   Irish  rebels, 
but  it  proved  too  little  and  too  late. 


CATHLEEN   NI   HOULIHAN  13 

Delia.  Michael!  [He  takes  no  notice]  Michael!  [He  turns  towards 
her]  Why  do  you  look  at  me  like  a  stranger? 

( She  drops  his  arm.  Bridget  goes  over  towards  her ) 

Patrick.  The  boys  are  all  hurrying  down  the  hillside  to  join  the 
French. 

Delia.  Michael  won't  be  going  to  join  the  French. 

Bridget.  [To  peterj  Tell  him  not  to  go,  Peter. 

Peter.  It's  no  use.  He  doesn't  hear  a  word  we're  saying. 

Bridget.  Try  and  coax  him  over  to  the  fire. 

Delia.  Michael!  Michael!  You  won't  leave  me!  You  won't  join  the 
French,  and  we  going  to  be  married! 

( She  puts  her  arms  about  him,  he  turns  towards  her  as  if  about  to  yield,  old 
woman's  voice  outside) 

They  shall  be  speaking  for  ever, 
The  people  shall  hear  them  for  ever. 

(  michael  breaks  away  from  delia,  stands  for  a  second  at  the  door,  then 
rushes  out,  following  the  old  woman's  voice.  Bridget  takes  delia,  who  is  cry- 
ing silently,  into  her  arms) 

Peter.  [To  Patrick,  laying  a  hand  on  his  arm]  Did  you  see  an  old 
woman  going  down  the  path? 

Patrick.  I  did  not,  but  I  saw  a  young  girl,  and  she  had  the  walk  of 
a  queen. 


STANDISH    O    GRADY 


The  Bardic  History  of  Ireland1 


Dawn 

1  here  is  not  perhaps  in  existence  a  product  of  the  human  mind 
so  extraordinary  as  the  Irish  annals.  From  a  time  dating  for  more 
than  three  thousand  years  before  the  birth  of  Christ,  the  stream  of 
Hibernian  history  flows  down  uninterrupted,  copious  and  abound- 
ing, between  accurately  defined  banks,  with  here  and  there  pictur- 
esque meanderings,  here  and  there  flowers  lolling  on  those  delusive 
waters,  but  never  concealed  in  mists  or  lost  in  a  marsh.  As  the  cen- 
turies wend  their  way,  king  succeeds  king  with  a  regularity  most 
gratifying,  and  fights  no  battle,  marries  no  wife,  begets  no  children, 
does  no  doughty  deed  of  which  a  contemporaneous  note  was  not 
taken,  and  which  has  not  been  incorporated  in  the  annals  of  his 
country.  To  think  that  this  mighty  fabric  of  recorded  events,  so  stu- 
pendous in  its  dimensions,  so  clean  and  accurate  in  its  details,  so 
symmetrical  and  elegant,  should  be  after  all  a  mirage  and  delusion, 
a  gorgeous  bubble,  whose  glowing  rotundity,  whose  rich  hues,  az- 
ure, purple,  amethyst  and  gold,  vanish  at  a  touch  and  are  gone, 
leaving  a  sorry  remnant  over  which  the  patriot  disillusionized  may 
grieve. 

Early  Irish  history  is  the  creation  mainly  of  the  bards.  Romances 
and  poems  supplied  the  great  blocks  with  which  the  fabric  was 
reared.  These  the  chroniclers  fitted  into  their  places,  into  the  in- 
terstices pouring  shot-rubbish,  and  grouting.  The  bardic  intellect, 
revolving  round  certain  ideas  for  centuries,  and  round  certain  ma- 
terial facts,  namely,  the  mighty  barrows  of  their  ancestors,  pro- 
duced gradually  a  vast  body  of  definite  historic  lore,  life-like  kings 
and  heroes,  real-seeming  queens.  The  mechanical  intellect  followed 
with  perspicuous  arrangement,  with  a  thirst  for  accuracy,  minute- 
ness, and  verisimilitude.  With  such  quarrymen  and  such  builders 
the  work  went  on  apace,  and  anon  a  fabric  huge  rose  like  an  ex- 
halation, and  like  an  exhalation  its  towers  and  pinnacles  of  empur- 
pled mist  are  blown  asunder  and  dislimn. 

1  From  History  of  Ireland:  Critical  and  Philosophical,  Volume  I,  London  and  Dublin,  1881. 

14 


THE   BARDIC   HISTORY   OF   IRELAND  15 

Doubtless  the  legendary  blends  at  some  point  with  the  historic 
narrative.  The  cloud  and  mist  somewhere  condense  into  the  clear 
stream  of  indubitable  fact.  But  how  to  discern  under  the  rich  and 
teeming  mythus  of  the  bards,  the  course  of  that  slender  and  doubt- 
ful rivulet,  or  beneath  the  piled  rubbish  and  dust  of  the  chroniclers, 
discover  the  tiny  track  which  elsewhere  broadens  into  the  highway 
of  a  nation's  history.  In  this  minute,  circumstantial,  and  most  im- 
posing body  of  history,  where  the  certain  legend  exhibits  the  form 
of  plain  and  probable  narrative,  and  the  certain  fact  displays  itself 
with  a  mythical  flourish,  how  there  to  fix  upon  any  one  point  and 
say  here  is  the  first  truth.  It  is  a  task  perilous  and  perplexing. 

Descartes  commenced  his  investigations  into  the  nature  of  the 
soul,  by  assuming  the  certainty  of  his  own  existence.  Standing 
upon  this  adamantine  foothold,  he  sought  around  him  for  ground 
equally  firm,  which  should  support  his  first  step  in  the  quagmire  of 
metaphysics.  But  in  the  early  Irish  history,  what  one  solid  and  irre- 
futable fact  appears  upon  which  we  can  put  foot  or  hand  and  say, 
'This,  at  all  events,  is  certain;  this  that  I  hold  is  not  mist;  this  that 
I  stand  on  is  neither  water  nor  mire?'  Running  down  the  long  list 
of  Milesian  kings,  chiefs,  brehons,  and  bards,  where  first  shall  we 
pause,  arrested  by  some  substantial  form  in  this  procession  of 
empty  ghosts — how  distinguish  the  man  from  the  shadow,  when 
over  all  is  diffused  the  same  concealing  mist,  and  the  eyes  of  the 
living  and  the  dead  look  with  the  same  pale  glare?  Eocha  of  the 
heavy  sighs,  how  shall  we  certify  or  how  deny  the  existence  of  that 
melancholy  man,  or  of  Tiernmas,  who  introduced  the  worship  of 
fire?  Lara  of  the  ships,  did  he  really  cross  the  sea  to  Gaul,  and  re- 
turn thence  to  give  his  name  to  Leinster,  and  beget  Leinster  kings? 
Ugainey  More,  did  he  rule  to  the  Torrian  sea,  holding  sea-coast 
towns  in  fee,  or  was  he  a  prehistoric  shadow  thrown  into  the  past 
from  the  stalwart  figure  of  Niall  of  the  Hostages?  Was  Morann  a 
real  brehon,  or  fabulous  as  the  collar  that  threatened  to  strangle 
him  in  the  utterances  of  unjust  judgments?  Was  Ferkeirtney  a 
poet,  having  flesh  and  bones  and  blood,  and  did  Bricrind,  the  sati- 
rist, really  compose  those  bitter  ranns1  for  the  Ultonians?  or  were 
both  as  ghostly  as  the  prime  druid,  Amergin,  who  came  into  the 
island  with  the  sons  of  Milesius,  and  in  a  manner  beyond  all  praise, 
collected  the  histories  of  the  conquered  peoples?  Or  do  we  wrong 


16  STANDISH   OGRADY 

that  venerable  man  whose  high-sounding  name  clung  for  ages 
around  the  estuary  of  the  Avoca? 

One  thing  at  all  events  we  cannot  deny — that  the  national  rec- 
ord is  at  least  lively.  Clear  noble  shapes  of  kings  and  queens,  chief- 
tains, brehons,  and  bards  gleam  in  the  large  rich  light  shed  abroad 
over  the  triumphant  progress  of  the  legendary  tale.  We  see  Duns1 
snow-white  with  roofs  striped  crimson  and  blue,  chariots  cushioned 
with  noble  skins,  with  bright  bronze  wheels  and  silver  poles  and 
yokes.  The  lively-hearted,  resolute  steeds  gallop  past,  bearing  the 
warrior  and  his  charioteer  with  the  loud  clangour  of  rattling  spears 
and  darts.  As  in  some  bright  young' dawn,  over  the  dewy  grass,  and 
in  the  light  of  the  rising  sun,  superhuman  in  size  and  beauty,  their 
long,  yellow  hair  curling  on  their  shoulders,  bound  around  the  tem- 
ples with  tores  of  gold,  clad  in  white  linen  tunics,  and  loose  brattas 
of  crimson  silk  fastened  on  the  breast  with  huge  wheel  brooches 
of  gold,  their  long  spears  musical  with  running  rings;  with  naked 
knees  and  bare  crown,  they  cluster  round  their  kings,  the  chieftains 
and  knights  of  the  heroic  age  of  Ireland. 

The  dawn  of  history  is  like  the  dawn  of  the  day.  The  night  of  the 
pre-historic  epoch  grows  rare,  its  dense  weight  is  relaxed;  flakes 
of  fleeting  and  uncertain  light  wander  and  vanish;  vague  shapes  of 
floating  mist  reveal  themselves,  gradually  assuming  form  and  col- 
our; faint  hues  of  crimson,  silver,  and  gold  strike  here  and  there, 
and  the  legendary  dawn  grows  on.  But  the  glory  of  morn  though 
splendid  is  unsubstantial;  the  glory  of  changing  and  empurpled 
mist — vapours  that  conceal  the  solid  face  of  nature,  the  hills,  trees, 
streams,  and  the  horizon,  holding  between  us  and  the  landscape  a 
concealing  veil,  through  whose  close  woof  the  eye  cannot  pene- 
trate, and  over  all  a  weird  strange  light. 

In  the  dawn  of  the  history  of  all  nations  we  see  this  deceptive 
light,  those  glorious  and  unearthly  shapes;  before  Grecian  history, 
the  gods  and  demigods  who  fought  around  Ilium;  before  Roman, 
the  strong  legends  of  Virginius  and  Brutus;  in  the  dawn  of  Irish 
history,  the  Knights  of  the  Red  Branch,  and  all  the  glory  that  sur- 
rounded the  Court  of  Concobar  Mac  Nessa,  High  King  of  the  Ul- 
tonians. 

But  of  what  use  these  concealing  glories,  these  cloudy  warriors, 
and  air-built  palaces?  Why  not  pass  on  at  once  to  credible  history? 

A  nation's  history  is  made  for  it  by  circumstances,  and  the  irre- 

1  Fortified  dwellings. 


THE   BARDIC   HISTORY   OF   IRELAND  17 

sistible  progress  of  events;  but  their  legends,  they  make  for  them- 
selves. In  that  dim  twilight  region,  where  day  meets  night,  the  in- 
tellect of  man,  tired  by  contact  with  the  vulgarity  of  actual  things, 
goes  back  for  rest  and  recuperation,  and  there  sleeping,  projects  its 
dreams  against  the  waning  night  and  before  the  rising  of  the  sun. 

The  legends  represent  the  imagination  of  the  country;  they  are 
that  kind  of  history  which  a  nation  desires  to  possess.  They  betray 
the  ambition  and  ideals  of  the  people  and,  in  this  respect,  have  a 
value  far  beyond  the  tale  of  actual  events  and  duly  recorded  deeds, 
which  are  no  more  history  than  a  skeleton  is  a  man.  Nay,  too,  they 
have  their  own  reality.  They  fill  the  mind  with  an  adequate  and 
satisfying  pleasure.  They  present  a  rhythmic  completeness  and  a 
beauty  not  to  be  found  in  the  fragmentary  and  ragged  succession 
of  events  in  time.  Achilles  and  Troy  appear  somehow  more  real 
than  Histiaeus  and  Miletus,  Cuculain1  and  Emain  Macha  than 
Brian  Boru  and  Kincora. 

Such  is  the  effect  produced  by  a  sympathetic  and  imaginative 
study  of  the  bardic  literature,  the  critical  faculty  being  for  a  time 
held  in  abeyance,  but  with  its  inevitable  reappearance  and  reasser- 
tion  of  its  rights,  that  gorgeous  world,  with  all  its  flashing  glories, 
dissolves  like  a  dream,  or  is  held  together  only  by  a  resolute  sup- 
pression of  all  disturbing  elements.  If  we  endeavour  to  realise,  viv- 
idly and  as  a  whole,  the  early  ages  and  personages  of  Irish  history, 
piercing  below  the  annals,  studying  them  in  connection  with  the 
imaginative  literature,  using  everywhere  a  strict  and  critical  eye, 
and  demanding  that  verisimilitude  and  underlying  harmony  which 
we  look  for  in  modern  historical  romance,  imagination  itself  wav- 
ers and  fails.  Here  is  a  splendid  picture,  complete  in  all  its  parts, 
fully  satisfying  the  imagination;  but  yonder  is  another,  and  the  two 
will  not  harmonize;  or  here  is  a  fact  stated,  and  the  picture  con- 
tradicts the  fact.  So  contemplated,  the  historic  track,  clear  and 
definite  in  the  annals,  viewed  through  the  medium  of  the  bardic 
literature,  is  doubtful  and  elusive  in  the  extreme.  Spite  its  splendid 
appearance  in  the  annals,  it  is  thin,  legendary,  evasive.  Looked  at 
with  the  severe  eyes  of  criticism,  the  broad  walled  highway  of  the 
old  historians,  on  which  pass  many  noble  figures  of  kings  and 
queens,  brehons,  bards,  kerds  and  warriors,  legislators  and  druids, 
real-seeming  antique  shapes  of  men  and  women,  marked  by  many 
a  cairn,  piled  above  heroes,  illustrious  with  battles,  elections,  con- 

1  Pronounced  Coo-hiill-in. 


18  STANDISH   OGRADY 

ventions,  melts  away  into  thin  air.  The  glare  of  bardic  light  flees 
away;  the  broad,  firm  highway  is  torn  asunder  and  dispersed;  even 
the  narrow,  doubtful  track  is  not  seen;  we  seem  to  foot  it  hesitat- 
ingly, anxiously,  from  stepping-stone  to  stepping-stone  set  at  long 
distance  in  some  quaking  Cimmerian  waste.  But  all  around,  in  surg- 
ing, tumultuous  motion,  come  and  go  the  gorgeous,  unearthly  be- 
ings that  long  ago  emanated  from  bardic  minds,  a  most  weird  and 
mocking  world.  Faces  rush  out  of  the  darkness,  and  as  swiftly  re- 
treat again.  Heroes  expand  into  giants,  and  dwindle  into  goblins,  or 
fling  aside  the  heroic  form  and  gambol  as  buffoons;  gorgeous  pal- 
aces are  blown  asunder  like  a  smoke-wreath;  kings,  with  wand  of 
silver  and  ard-roth1  of  gold,  move  with  all  their  state  from  century 
to  century;  puissant  heroes,  whose  fame  reverberates  through  and 
sheds  a  glory  over  epochs,  approach  and  coalesce;  battles  are 
shifted  from  place  to  place  and  century  to  century;  buried  mon- 
archs  reappear,  and  run  a  new  career  of  glory.  The  explorer  visits 
an  enchanted  land  where  he  is  mocked  and  deluded.  Everything 
seems  blown  loose  from  its  fastenings.  All  that  should  be  most  sta- 
ble is  whirled  round  and  borne  away  like  foam  or  dead  leaves  in 
a  storm. 

But  with  the  cessation  of  this  creative  bardic  energy,  what  a  de- 
posit and  residuum  for  the  annalists.  Consider  the  great  work  of 
the  Four  Masters,  as  it  treats  of  this  period,  that  strange  sarcopha- 
gus filled  with  the  imagined  dust  of  visionary  hosts.  There  lies  a 
vast  silent  land,  a  land  of  the  dead,  a  vast  continent  of  the  dead, 
lit  with  pale  phosphoric  radiance.  The  weird  light  that  surges 
round  us  elsewhere  has  passed  away  from  that  land.  The  phantas- 
mal energy  has  ceased  there — the  transmutation  scenes  that  mock, 
the  chaos,  and  the  whirlwind.  There,  too,  at  one  time,  the  same 
phantasmagoria  prevailed,  real-seeming  warriors  thundered,  kings 
glittered,  kerds  wrought,  harpers  harped,  chariots  rolled.  But  all 
that  has  passed  away.  Reverent  hands,  to  whom  that  phantasmal 
world  was  real,  decently  composed  and  laid  aside  in  due  order  the 
relics  and  anatomies  of  those  airy  nations,  building  over  each  hero 
his  tomb,  and  setting  up  his  gravestone,  piously  graving  the  year  of 
his  death  and  birth,  and  his  battles.  There  they  repose  in  their  mul- 
titudes in  ordered  and  exact  numbers  and  relation,  reaching  away 
into  the  dim  past  to  the  edge  of  the  great  deluge,  and  beyond  it; 
there  the  Queen  Ceasair  and  her  comrades,  pre-Noachian  wander- 

1  The  royal  orb. 


THE   BARDIC   HISTORY   OF   IRELAND  19 

ers;  there  Fintann,  who  lived  on  both  sides  of  the  great  flood, 
and  roamed  the  depths  when  the  world  was  submerged;  there 
Partholanus  and  his  ill-starred  race — the  chroniclers  know  them  all; 
there  the  children  of  Nemed  in  their  own  Golgotha,  their  stones 
all  carefully  lettered,  these  not  so  ancient  as  the  rest,  only  three 
thousand  years  before  the  birth  of  Christ;  there  the  Clan  Fomor,  a 
giant  race,  and  the  Firbolgs  with  their  correlatives,  Fir-Domnan 
and  Fir-Gaileen — the  Tuatha  De  Danaan,  whom  the  prudent  annal- 
ist condemns  to  a  place  amongst  the  dead — a  divine  race,  they  will 
not  die — they  flee  afar,  preferring  their  phantasmal  life;  even  the 
advent  of  the  Talkend  1  will  not  slay  them,  though  their  glory  suf- 
fers eclipse  before  the  new  faith.  The  children  of  Milith  are  there 
with  their  long  ancestry  reaching  to  Egypt  and  the  Holy  Land — 
Heber,  Heremon,  Amergin,  Ir,  with  all  their  descendants,  each  be- 
neath his  lettered  stone;  Tiernmas  and  Moh  Corb,  Ollav  Fohla, 
their  lines  descending  through  many  centuries;  all  put  away  and 
decently  composed  for  ever.  No  confusion  now,  no  dissolving 
scenes  or  aught  that  shocks  and  disturbs,  no  conflicting  events  and 
incredible  re-appearances.  Chronology  is  respected.  The  critical 
and  historical  intellect  has  provided  that  all  things  shall  be  done 
rightly  and  in  order,  that  the  obits  and  births  and  battles  should  be 
natural  and  imposing,  and  worthy  of  the  annals  of  an  ancient 
people. 

And  thus,  regarding  the  whole  from  a  point  of  view  sufficiently 
remote,  a  certain  epic  completeness  and  harmony  characterizes 
that  vast  panoramic  succession  of  ages  and  races. 


Rath2  and  Caern  Germs  of  the  History 

Scattered  over  the  surface  of  every  country  in  Europe  may  be 
found  sepulchral  monuments,  the  remains  of  pre-historic  times 
and  nations,  and  of  a  phase  of  life  and  civilization  which  has  long 
since  passed  away.  No  country  in  Europe  is  without  its  cromlechs 
and  dolmens,  huge  earthen  tumuli,  great  flagged  sepulchres,  and  en- 
closures of  tall  pillar-stones.  The  men  by  whom  these  works  were 
made,  so  interesting  in  themselves,  and  so  different  from  anything  of 


1  St.  Patrick. 

2  An  enclosure    (usually   circular)   made   by   a   strong  earthen   wall,   and  serving   as   a   fort 
and  place  of  residence  for  the  chief  of  a  tribe.  N.  E.  D. 


20  STANDISH   OGRADY 

the  kind  erected  since,  were  not  strangers  and  aliens,  but  our  own 
ancestors,  and  out  of  their  rude  civilization  our  own  has  slowly 
grown.  Of  that  elder  phase  of  European  civilization  no  record  or 
tradition  has  been  anywhere  bequeathed  to  us.  Of  its  nature,  and 
the  ideas  and  sentiments  whereby  it  was  sustained,  nought  may 
now  be  learned  save  by  an  examination  of  those  tombs  themselves, 
and  of  the  dumb  remnants,  from  time  to  time  exhumed  out  of  their 
soil — rude  instruments  of  clay,  flint,  brass,  and  gold,  and  by  specula- 
tions and  reasonings  founded  upon  these,  archaeological  gleanings, 
meagre  and  sapless. 

For  after  the  explorer  has  broken  up,  certainly  desecrated,  and 
perhaps  destroyed  those  noble  sepulchral  raths;  after  he  has  disin- 
terred the  bones  laid  there  once  by  pious  hands,  and  the  urn  with 
its  unrecognisable  ashes  of  king  or  warrior,  and  by  the  industrious 
labour  of  years  hoarded  his  fruitless  treasure  of  stone  celt  and 
arrow-head,  of  brazen  sword  and  gold  fibula  and  torque;  and  after 
the  savant  has  rammed  many  skulls  with  sawdust,  measuring  their 
capacity,  and  has  adorned  them  with  some  obscure  label,  and  has 
tabulated  and  arranged  the  implements  and  decorations  of  flint 
and  metal  in  the  glazed  cases  of  the  cold  gaunt  museum,  the  im- 
agination, unsatisfied  and  revolted,  shrinks  back  from  all  that  he 
has  done.  Still  we  continue  to  inquire,  receiving  from  him  no  ad- 
equate response — who  were  those  ancient  chieftains  and  warriors 
for  whom  an  affectionate  people  raised  those  strange  tombs?  What 
life  did  they  lead?  What  deeds  perform?  How  did  their  personality 
affect  the  minds  of  their  people  and  posterity?  How  did  our  ances- 
tors look  upon  those  great  tombs,  certainly  not  reared  to  be  for- 
gotten, and  how  did  they — those  huge  monumental  pebbles  and 
swelling  raths — enter  into  and  affect  the  civilization  or  religion 
of  the  times? 

We  see  the  cromlech  with  its  massive  slab  and  immense  sup- 
porting pillars,  but  we  vainly  endeavour  to  imagine  for  whom  it 
was  first  erected,  and  how  that  greater  than  cyclopean  house  af- 
fected the  minds  of  those  who  made  it,  or  those  who  were  reared 
in  its  neighbourhood  or  within  reach  of  its  influence.  We  see  the 
stone  cist  with  its  great  smooth  flags,  the  rocky  cairn,  and  huge 
barrow  and  massive  walled  cathair,1  but  the  interest  which  they  in- 
variably excite  is  only  aroused  to  subside  again  unsatisfied.  From 
this  department  of  European  antiquities  the  historian  retires  baf- 

1  A  circular  stone  fort. 


THE   BARDIC   HISTORY   OF    IRELAND  21 

fled,  and  the  dry  savant  is  alone  master  of  the  field,  but  a  field 
which,  as  cultivated  by  him  alone,  remains  barren,  or  fertile  only 
in  things  the  reverse  of  exhilarating.  An  antiquarian  museum  is 
more  melancholy  than  a  tomb. 

But  there  is  one  country  in  Europe,  in  which,  by  virtue  of  a 
marvellous  strength  and  tenacity  of  the  historical  intellect,  and  of 
filial  devotedness  of  the  memory  of  their  ancestors,  there  have 
been  preserved  down  into  the  early  phases  of  mediaeval  civiliza- 
tion, and  then  committed  to  the  sure  guardianship  of  manuscript, 
the  hymns,  ballads,  stories,  and  chronicles,  the  names,  pedigrees, 
achievements,  and  even  characters,  of  those  ancient  kings  and  war- 
riors over  whom  those  massive  cromlechs  were  erected  and  great 
cairns  piled.  There  is  not  a  conspicuous  sepulchral  monument  in 
Ireland,  the  traditional  history  of  which  is  not  recorded  in  our  an- 
cient literature,  and  of  the  heroes  in  whose  honour  they  were 
raised.  In  the  rest  of  Europe  there  is  not  a  single  barrow,  dolmen, 
or  cist  of  which  the  ancient  traditional  history  is  recorded;  in  Ire- 
land there  is  hardly  one  of  which  it  is  not.  And  these  histories  are 
in  many  cases  as  rich  and  circumstantial  as  that  of  men  of  the 
greatest  eminence  who  have  lived  in  modern  times.  Granted  that 
the  imagination  which  for  centuries  followed  with  eager  interest 
the  lives  of  these  heroes,  beheld  as  gigantic  what  was  not  so,  as 
romantic  and  heroic  what  was  neither  one  nor  the  other,  still  the 
great  fact  remains,  that  it  was  beside  and  in  connection  with  the 
mounds  and  cairns  that  this  history  was  elaborated,  and  elaborated 
concerning  them  and  concerning  the  heroes  to  whom  they  were 
sacred. 

On  the  plain  of  Tara,  beside  the  little  stream  Nemna,  itself  fa- 
mous as  that  which  first  turned  a  mill-wheel  in  Ireland,  there  lies  a 
barrow,  not  itself  very  conspicuous  in  the  midst  of  others,  all 
named  and  illustrious  in  the  ancient  literature  of  the  country.  The 
ancient  hero  there  interred  is  to  the  student  of  the  Irish  bardic 
literature  a  figure  as  familiar  and  clearly  seen  as  any  personage 
in  the  Biographia  Britannica.  We  know  the  name  he  bore  as  a  boy 
and  the  name  he  bore  as  a  man.  We  know  the  names  of  his  father 
and  his  grandfather,  and  of  the  father  of  his  grandfather;  of  his 
mother,  and  the  father  and  mother  of  his  mother,  and  the  pedigrees 
and  histories  of  each  of  these.  We  know  the  name  of  his  nurse, 
and  of  his  children,  and  of  his  wife,  and  the  character  of  his  wife, 
and  of  the  father  and  mother  of  his  wife,  and  where  they  lived  and 


22  STANDISH   OGRADY 

were  buried.  We  know  all  the  striking  events  of  his  boyhood  and 
manhood,  the  names  of  his  horses  and  his  weapons,  his  own  char- 
acter and  his  friends,  male  and  female.  We  know  his  battles, 
and  the  names  of  those  whom  he  slew  in  battle,  and  how  he  was 
himself  slain,  and  by  whose  hands.  We  know  his  physical  and 
spiritual  characteristics,  the  device  upon  his  shield,  and  how  that 
was  originated,  carved,  and  painted,  and  by  whom.  We  know  the 
colour  of  his  hair,  the  date  of  his  birth  and  of  his  death,  and  his 
relations,  in  time  and  otherwise,  with  the  remainder  of  the  princes 
and  warriors  with  whom,  in  that  mound-raising  period  of  our  his- 
tory, he  was  connected,  in  hostility  or  friendship;  and  all  this  en- 
shrined in  ancient  song,  the  transmitted  traditions  of  the  people 
who  raised  that  barrow,  and  who  laid  within  it  sorrowing  their 
brave  ruler  and  defender.  That  mound  is  the  tomb  of  Cuculain, 
once  king  of  the  district  in  which  Dundalk  stands  to-day,  and  the 
ruins  of  whose  earthen  fortification  may  still  be  seen  two  miles 
from  that  town. 

This  is  a  single  instance,  and  used  merely  as  an  example,  but  one 
out  of  a  multitude  almost  as  striking.  There  is  not  a  king  of  Ireland, 
described  as  such  in  the  ancient  annals,  whose  barrow  is  not  men- 
tioned in  these  or  other  compositions,  and  every  one  of  which  may 
at  the  present  day  be  identified  where  the  ignorant  plebeian  or  the 
ignorant  patrician  has  not  destroyed  them.  The  early  history  of  Ire- 
land clings  around  and  grows  out  of  the  Irish  barrows  until,  with 
almost  the  universality  of  that  primeval  forest  from  which  Ireland 
took  one  of  its  ancient  names,  the  whole  isle  and  all  within  it  was 
clothed  with  a  nobler  raiment,  invisible,  but  not  the  less  real,  of  a 
full  and  luxuriant  history,  from  whose  presence,  all-embracing,  no 
part  was  free.  Of  the  many  poetical  and  rhetorical  titles  lavished 
upon  this  country,  none  is  truer  than  that  which  calls  her  the  Isle 
of  Song.  Her  ancient  history  passed  unceasingly  into  the  realm  of 
artistic  representation;  the  history  of  one  generation  became  the 
poetry  of  the  next,  until  the  whole  island  was  illuminated  and 
coloured  by  the  poetry  of  the  bards.  Productions  of  mere  fancy  and 
imagination  these  songs  are  not,  though  fancy  and  imagination 
may  have  coloured  and  shaped  all  their  subject  matter,  but  the 
names  are  names  of  men  and  women  who  once  lived  and  died  in 
Ireland,  and  over  whom  their  people  raised  the  swelling  rath  and 
reared  the  rocky  cromlech.  In  the  sepulchral  monuments  their 
names  were  preserved,  and  in  their  performance  of  sacred  rites  and 


THE   BARDIC   HISTORY   OF    IRELAND  23 

the  holding  of  games,  fairs,  and  assemblies  in  their  honour,  the 
memory  of  their  achievements  kept  fresh,  till  the  traditions  that 
clung  around  these  places  were  enshrined  in  tales  which  were 
finally  incorporated  in  the  Leabhar  na  Huidhre1  and  the  Book  of 
Leinster.2 

Pre-historic  narrative  is  of  two  kinds — in  one  the  imagination 
is  at  work  consciously,  in  the  other  unconsciously.  Legends  of  the 
former  class  are  the  product  of  a  lettered  and  learned  age.  The 
story  floats  loosely  in  a  world  of  imagination.  The  other  sort  of 
pre-historic  narrative  clings  close  to  the  soil  and  to  visible  and 
tangible  objects.  It  may  be  legend,  but  it  is  legend  believed  in  as 
history,  never  consciously  invented,  and  growing  out  of  certain 
spots  of  the  earth's  surface,  and  supported  by  and  drawing  its  life 
from  the  soil  like  a  natural  growth. 

Such  are  the  early  Irish  tales  that  cling  around  the  mounds  and 
cromlechs  as  that  by  which  they  are  sustained,  which  was  origi- 
nally their  source,  and  sustained  them  afterwards  in  a  strong  en- 
during life.  It  is  evident  that  these  cannot  be  classed  with  stories 
that  float  vaguely  in  an  ideal  world,  which  may  happen  in  one 
place  as  well  as  another,  and  in  which  the  names  might  be  disar- 
rayed without  changing  the  character  and  consistency  of  the  tale, 
and  its  relations,  in  time  or  otherwise,  with  other  tales. 

Foreigners  are  surprised  to  find  the  Irish  claim  for  their  own 
country  an  antiquity  and  a  history  prior  to  that  of  the  neighbour- 
ing countries.  Herein  lie  the  proof  and  the  explanation.  The  tradi- 
tions and  history  of  the  mound-raising  period  have  in  other  coun- 
tries passed  away.  Foreign  conquest,  or  less  intrinsic  force  of 
imagination,  and  pious  sentiment  have  suffered  them  to  fall  into 
oblivion;  but  in  Ireland  they  have  been  all  preserved  in  their  origi- 
nal fulness  and  vigour,  hardly  a  hue  has  faded,  hardly  a  minute 
circumstance  or  articulation  been  suffered  to  decay. 

The  enthusiasm  with  which  the  Irish  intellect  seized  upon  the 
grand  moral  life  of  Christianity,  and  ideals  so  different  from,  and  so 
hostile  to,  those  of  the  heroic  age,  did  not  consume  the  traditions 
or  destroy  the  pious  and  reverent  spirit  in  which  men  still  looked 
back  upon  those  monuments  of  their  own  pagan  teachers  and 
kings,  and  the  deep  spirit  of  patriotism  and  affection  with  which 
the  mind  still  clung  to  the  old  heroic  age,  whose  types  were  war- 


1  The  Book  of  the  Dun  Cow,  a  MS  compilation  of  the  12th  century. 

2  A  similar  MS  compilation  of  the   12th  century. 


24  STANDISH   OGRADY 

like  prowess,  physical  beauty,  generosity,  hospitality,  love  of 
family  and  nation,  and  all  those  noble  attributes  which  constituted 
the  heroic  character  as  distinguished  from  the  saintly.  The  Danish 
conquest,  with  its  profound  modification  of  Irish  society,  and  con- 
sequent disruption  of  old  habits  and  conditions  of  life,  did  not  dis- 
sipate it;  nor  the  more  dangerous  conquest  of  the  Normans,  with 
their  own  innate  nobility  of  character,  chivalrous  daring,  and 
continental  grace  and  civilization;  nor  the  Elizabethan  convulsions 
and  systematic  repression  and  destruction  of  all  native  phases  of 
thought  and  feeling.  Through  all  these  storms,  which  successively 
assailed  the  heroic  literature  of  ancient  Ireland,  it  still  held  itself 
undestroyed.  There  were  still  found  generous  minds  to  shelter  and 
shield  the  old  tales  and  ballads,  to  feel  the  nobleness  of  that  life 
of  which  they  were  the  outcome,  and  to  resolve  that  the  soil  of 
Ireland  should  not,  so  far  as  they  had  the  power  to  prevent  it,  be 
denuded  of  its  raiment  of  history  and  historic  romance,  or  reduced 
again  to  primeval  nakedness.  The  fruit  of  the  persistency  and  un- 
quenched  love  of  country  and  its  ancient  traditions,  is  left  to  be  en- 
joyed by  us.  There  is  not  through  the  length  and  breadth  of  the 
country  a  conspicuous  rath  or  barrow  of  which  we  cannot  find  the 
traditional  history  preserved  in  this  ancient  literature.  The  mounds 
of  Tara,  the  great  barrows  along  the  shores  of  the  Boyne,  the 
raths  of  Slieve  Mish,  Rathcrogan,  and  Teltown,  the  stone  caiseals1 
of  Aran  and  Innishowen,  and  those  that  alone  or  in  smaller  groups 
stud  the  country  over,  are  all,  or  nearly  all,  mentioned  in  this  an- 
cient literature,  with  the  names  and  traditional  histories  of  those 
over  whom  they  were  raised. 

The  indigenous  history  of  the  surrounding  nations  commences 
with  the  Christian  ages — that  of  Ireland  runs  back  into  the  pre- 
Christian.  The  Irish  bards,  unlike  those  of  Gaul,  Britain  and,  we 
may  add,  Germany,  handed  over  to  the  monks  and  mediaeval 
scholars  an  immense  mass  of  mingled  history,  tradition,  and 
mythology,  which  the  monks  and  Christianized  bards  were  com- 
pelled to  accept,  and  which  to  a  certain  extent,  they  have  verified 
and  established  as  indubitable. 

The  literary  monuments  in  which  is  enshrined  the  ancient  his- 
tory of  Ireland,  though  chronologically  later  than  the  correspond- 
ing monuments  of  Greece  and  of  the  Norse  nations,  are  yet  in  fact 
more  archaic.  They  cling  close  to  and  encircle  the  mounded  tombs 

1  Stone  buildings  or  forts. 


THE   BARDIC   HISTORY   OF   IRELAND  25 

of  gods  and  heroes.  Other  literatures  have  floated  far  away  from 
that  to  which  they  owe  their  genesis.  They  resemble  the  full  course 
of  a  stream  which  has  had  its  source  far  away.  The  stream  of  the 
Irish  bardic  literature  still  lingers  in  the  mountains  which  gave  it 
birth.  It  is  near  the  well-head. 

The  stone-circle,  rath,  mound,  cromlech,  pillar-stone,  so  far  as  I 
know,  appear  in  no  literature  to-day  except  the  ancient  literature 
of  Ireland. 

The  pre-Christian  period  of  Irish  history  presents  difficulties  from 
which  the  corresponding  period  in  the  histories  of  other  countries 
is  free.  The  surrounding  nations  escape  the  difficulty  by  having 
nothing  to  record.  The  Irish  historian  is  immersed  in  perplexity  on 
account  of  the  mass  of  material  ready  to  his  hand.  The  English 
have  lost  utterly  all  record  of  those  centuries  before  which  the  Irish 
historian  stands  with  dismay  and  hesitation,  not  through  deficiency 
of  materials,  but  through  their  excess.  Had  nought  but  the  chronicles 
been  preserved,  the  task  would  have  been  simple.  We  would  then 
have  had  merely  to  determine  approximately  the  date  of  the  in- 
troduction of  letters,  and  allowing  a  margin  on  account  of  the 
bardic  system  and  the  commission  of  family  and  national  history  to 
the  keeping  of  rhymed  and  alliterated  verse,  fix  upon  some  reason- 
able point,  and  set  down  in  order  the  old  successions  of  kings  and 
the  battles  and  other  remarkable  events.  But  in  Irish  history  there 
remains,  demanding  treatment,  that  other  immense  mass  of  litera- 
ture of  an  imaginative  nature,  illuminating  with  anecdote  and  tale 
the  events  and  personages  mentioned  simply  and  without  com- 
ment by  the  chronicler.  It  is  this  poetic  literature  which  constitutes 
the  stumbling-block,  as  it  constitutes  also  the  glory,  of  early  Irish 
history,  for  it  cannot  be  rejected  and  it  cannot  be  retained.  It  can- 
not be  rejected,  because  it  contains  historical  matter  which  is  con- 
sonant with  and  illuminates  the  dry  lists  of  the  chronologist,  and  it 
cannot  be  retained,  for  popular  poetry  is  not  history;  and  the  task 
of  distinguishing  in  such  literature  the  fact  from  the  fiction — where 
there  is  certainly  fact  and  certainly  fiction — is  one  of  the  most  dif- 
ficult to  which  the  intellect  can  apply  itself.  That  this  difficulty 
has  not  been  hitherto  surmounted  by  Irish  writers  is  no  just  re- 
proach. For  the  last  century,  intellects  of  the  highest  attainments, 
trained  and  educated  to  the  last  degree,  have  been  vainly  endeav- 
ouring to  solve  a  similar  question  in  the  far  less  copious  and  less 
varied    heroic    literature    of    Greece.    Yet   the    labours    of    Wolf, 


26  STANDISH   OGRADY 

Grote,  Mahaffy,  Geddes,  and  Gladstone,  have  not  been  sufficient  to 
set  at  rest  the  small  question,  whether  it  was  one  man  or  two  or 
many  who  composed  the  Iliad  and  Odyssey,  while  the  reality  of 
the  achievements  of  Achilles  and  even  his  existence  might  be 
denied  or  asserted  by  a  scholar  without  general  reproach.  When 
this  is  the  case  with  regard  to  the  great  heroes  of  the  Iliad,  I  fancy 
it  will  be  some  time  before  the  same  problem  will  have  been  solved 
for  the  minor  characters,  and  as  it  affects  Thersites,  or  that  emi- 
nent artist  who  dwelt  at  home  in  Hyla,  being  by  far  the  most  ex- 
cellent of  leather-cutters.  When,  therefore,  Greek  still  meets  Greek 
in  an  interminable  and  apparently  bloodless  conflict  over  the  dis- 
puted body  of  the  Iliad  and  still  no  end  appears,  surely  it  would  be 
madness  for  any  one  to  sit  down  and  gaily  distinguish  true  from 
false  in  the  immense  and  complex  mass  of  the  Irish  bardic  litera- 
ture, having  in  his  ears  this  century-lasting  struggle  over  a  single 
Greek  poem  and  a  single  small  phase  of  the  semi-historic  life  of 
Hellas.  .  .  .1 


Importance  of  the  Mythical  Period  in  the  History  of  Nations 

So  absolute  is  the  tyranny  of  the  imagination  over  the  minds  of 
men,  that  it  is  often  precisely  those  portions  of  the  history  of 
a  people  which  are  not  historical  that  attract  the  most  profound 
attention  and  arouse  the  deepest  feelings.  Even  within  the  limits 
of  the  historical  period  it  is  the  imaginative  treatment  of  per- 
sons and  events  which  takes  the  strongest  hold  upon  the  world.  It 
is  the  Socrates  of  Plato's  dialogues,  the  Marc  Antony  of  Shake- 
speare's drama  and  of  Plutarch's  anecdotes,  the  Alfred  of  pretty 
Anglo-Saxon  myths,  whom  we  really  see  and  think  of,  and  not  the 
Socrates,  Marc  Antony,  and  Alfred  of  positive  undeniable  history. 
The  legend-making  faculty,  and  what  is  akin  to  it,  never  cease  and 
never  can  cease.  Romance,  epic,  drama,  and  artistic  representation 
are  at  all  times  the  points  to  which  history  continually  aspires — 
there  only  its  final  development  and  efflorescence.  Archaeology 
culminates  in  history,  history  culminates  in  art. 

This  is  true  of  persons  and  events  falling  within  the  scope  of 
the  most  undeniable  history,  but  it  is  when  the  great  permanent 

1  Two  irrelevant  paragraphs  are  omitted  here. 


THE   BARDIC   HISTORY   OF   IRELAND  27 

universal  feelings  of  a  nation  or  race  project  themselves  into  ap- 
propriate types  of  human  personality,  moving  freely  in  a  congenial 
atmosphere  and  world,  that  the  power  of  imagination  is  rightly 
known  and  its  profound  and  penetrating  effect  fully  felt.  While 
perpetually  teased  and  hampered  by  the  critical  and  historical  in- 
stinct, it  works  as  it  were  in  chains,  and  its  results  are  proportion- 
ately trivial.  To  express  the  whole  nature  of  a  race  or  nation,  the 
artist  needs  that  absolute  freedom  which  is  only  supplied  by  a  com- 
plete escape  from  positive  history  and  unyielding  despotic  fact. 
Then  the  results  become  so  typical,  and  of  such  enduring  value  and 
importance,  that  not  the  historian  alone,  but  all  eager  and  vivid 
minds  are  irresistibly  attracted  thither  by  influences  similar  to  those 
which  attract  us  in  storms,  in  the  sea,  in  running  water,  in  revolu- 
tionary epochs,  and  in  all  that  seems  to  indicate  abounding  life, 
movement,  and  freedom. 

Such  an  escape  from  the  actual  is  supplied  to  some  more  fa- 
voured or  more  gifted  nations  in  the  possession  of  a  great  mythical 
age  lying  behind  their  progress  through  time,  imparting  to  their 
lives  its  own  greatness  and  glory,  inspiring  life  and  hope  and  a 
buoyancy  which  laughs  at  obstacles  and  will  not  recognise  defeat. 
The  very  lawlessness  and  audacity  of  conception  which  character- 
ise such  imagined  ages  are  ever  welcome.  They  prove  overflowing 
youth  and  hope,  and  point  to  a  maturity  of  power.  The  Greek  race 
performed  mightier  achievements  than  the  fabled  labours  of 
Heracles  or  of  the  mountain-rending  Titans.  The  gigantic  concep- 
tions of  heroism  and  strength,  with  which  the  forefront  of  Irish  his- 
tory is  thronged,  prove  the  great  future  of  this  race  and  land,  of 
which  the  mere  contemplation  of  the  actual  results  of  time 
might  cause  even  the  patriot  to  despair. 

To  the  Greek  bards  who  shaped  the  mythology  of  Hellas  we 
must  remotely  attribute  all  the  enormous  influence  which  Greece 
has  exercised  on  the  world.  But  for  them,  the  Greece  that  we  know 
would  not  have  been;  without  them  the  Iliad  and  Odyssey  would 
never  have  arisen,  nor  the  Athenian  drama,  nor  Greek  art,  nor 
architecture.  All  of  these,  as  we  find  them,  are  concerned  with  the 
gods  and  heroes  who  were  the  creations  of  pre-historic  bards.  It 
was  they,  namely  these  pre-historic  unremembered  Greeks,  who 
supplied  the  types,  and  the  fire,  ideality,  and  creative  impulses. 
The  great  age  of  Hellas  was  not  an  accident,  but  an  emergence 
into  light,  and  a  bursting  as  it  were  into  flower  of  that  which  was 


28  STANDISH   OGRADY 

generated  and  nursed  in  earlier  obscurer  centuries.  Those  rude 
elder  forgotten  bards  were  the  root  of  all  that  floral  magnificence  of 
the  Periclean  and  subsequent  ages.  That  this  is  true  of  all  the  im- 
aginative and  artistic  work  of  Greece  is  self-evident;  but  I  believe 
it  is  no  less  true  of  Greek  philosophy,  and  of  the  whole  life  of 
Hellas,  as  it  exhibits  itself  in  history.  How  all-controlling  over  the 
pre-historic  Greek  mind  must  have  been  the  influence  of  the  bards, 
the  comparative  study  of  the  corresponding  period  of  Irish  history 
shows,  with  a  clearness  and  fulness  which  cannot  be  elsewhere 
found.  For  centuries  of  the  progress  of  the  Hellenic  mind,  the  great 
tides  and  currents  were  bardic,  religious,  and  imaginative.  From 
those  ages  it  emerges  into  the  litten  spaces  of  history,  bringing 
with  it  such  powers  and  ambitions  as  accrued  to  it  during  the  cen- 
turies of  the  predominance  of  the  bards. 

As  compared  with  the  history  of  Greece,  that  of  our  own  land  is 
of  course  a  small  thing,  its  real  greatness  lying  in  the  promise  of 
the  future,  not  in  the  actualities  of  the  past;  of  which  future,  that 
far  off  mythic  age  is  a  prophecy.  But  no  more  than  Grecian  is  Irish 
history  comprehensible  without  a  knowledge  of  those  gods,  giants, 
and  heroes,  with  whose  crowded  cycles  its  pre-historic  ages  are 
filled.  No  such  visible  results  have  flowed  to  the  world  from  the  la- 
bours of  the  Irish  bards  as  what  has  indirectly  accrued  from  those 
of  Orpheus,  Musaeus,  and  the  other  spiritual  progenitors  of  the 
Greek  race.  The  development  of  the  Irish  mind  under  the  influence 
of  the  bards  was  interrupted  by  the  advent  of  Christianity  at  a 
very  early  age,  impelled  by  the  force  of  all  the  existing  civilization 
of  Europe.  Had  the  intellectual  and  spiritual  sovereignty  of  the 
Irish  bards  continued  for  a  few  centuries  longer,  I,  for  one,  regard- 
ing the  wonderful  imaginative  power  evinced  in  the  whole  concep- 
tion of  that  vast  epos  which  forms  the  bardic  history  of  Ireland, 
and  the  innumerable  defined  lofty  or  beautiful  characters  which  it 
contains,  feel  as  confident  as  one  can  well  be  concerning  anything 
not  actually  realized,  that  results  would  have  been  forthcoming 
which  would  now  be  portion  of  the  intellectual  wealth  of  mankind. 

Yet  were  the  labours  of  the  Irish  bards  considerable  and  well 
worthy  of  attention,  and  their  influence  upon  the  history  of  this 
nation  deep  and  far-reaching.  In  the  first  place,  they  have  left  be- 
hind the  still  extant  imaginative  literature,  monuments  of  antiquity 
in  the  highest  degree  interesting  and  important.  No  other  European 
country  supplies  records  exhibiting  phases  of  thought  and  civiliza- 


THE   BARDIC   HISTORY   OF    IRELAND  29 

tion  so  archaic,  as  are  revealed  with  regard  to  the  Irish  race,  in  this 
unique  literature.  Thus  a  great  hiatus  in  European,  and,  more  par- 
ticularly, in  Grecian  history,  is  partially  filled.  We  find  in  it  a  stage 
of  mental  and  social  development  corresponding  to  that  of  Hellas 
in  the  centuries  that  preceded  the  age  of  Homer,  and  of  which  all 
monuments  have  been  swept  away. 

Again,  we  must  remember  that  the  intellectual  influence  exer- 
cised by  Ireland  over  the  north-west  of  Europe,  during  the  sixth, 
seventh,  and  eighth  centuries,  is  distinctly,  though  indirectly,  trace- 
able to  the  bards.  It  is  not  in  the  nature  of  things  that  a  savage  and 
untutored  race  should  suddenly  burst  upon  the  world  and  assume 
the  spiritual  control  of  peoples  who  had  been  for  centuries  in 
contact  with  Roman  influence.  When  the  Christian  missionaries 
landed  in  Ireland,  they  found  a  people  whose  intellectual,  moral, 
and  imaginative  powers  had  been  for  many  generations  stimulated 
and  aroused  by  their  native  bards.  But  for  them  the  Ireland  of 
those  centuries  would  have  been  impossible. 

But  perhaps  the  most  valuable  work  achieved  for  Ireland  by 
those  ancient  shapers  of  legend  and  heroic  tale,  is  like  all  that  is 
best  done  in  the  world,  incapable  of  being  definitely  grasped  and 
clearly  exhibited.  Their  best  work  is  probably  hidden  in  the  blood 
and  brain  of  the  race  to  this  day.  Those  antique  singing  men,  with 
their  imagined  gods  and  superhuman  heroes,  breathed  into  the 
land  and  people  the  gallantry  and  chivalrousness,  the  prevailing 
ideality,  the  love  of  action  and  freedom,  the  audacity  and  elevation 
of  thought,  which,  underneath  all  rudeness  and  grotesquerie,  char- 
acterizes those  remnants  of  their  imaginings,  and  which  we  would 
believe  no  intervening  centuries  have  been  powerful  wholly  to 
annul.  Theirs,  not  the  monks',  was  the  perfervidum  ingenium 
Scotorum.1 

I  would  also  add  when  I  consider  the  extraordinary  stimulus 
which  the  perusal  of  that  literature  gives  to  the  imagination,  even 
in  centuries  like  these,  and  its  wealth  of  elevated  and  intensely 
human  characters  that,  as  I  anticipate,  with  the  revival  of  Irish 
literary  energy  and  the  return  of  Irish  self-esteem,  the  artistic 
craftsmen  of  the  future  will  find  therein,  and  in  unfailing  abun- 
dance, the  material  of  persons  and  sentiments  fit  for  the  highest 
purposes  of  epic  and  dramatic  literature  and  of  art,  pictorial  and 
sculptural.  .  .  . 

1  Over-enthusiastic  genius  of  the  Irish. 


The  Knighting  of  Cuculain1 

1  hen  in  the  presence  of  his  court,  and  his  warriors,  and  the  youths 
who  were  the  comrades  and  companions  of  Cuculain,  Concobar 
presented  the  young  hero  with  his  weapons  of  war,  after  he  had 
taken  the  vows  of  the  Red  Branch,  and  having  also  bound  himself 
by  certain  gaesa.2  But  Cuculain  looked  narrowly  upon  the  weap- 
ons, and  he  struck  the  spears  together,  and  clashed  the  sword  upon 
the  shield,  and  he  brake  the  spears  in  pieces  and  the  sword,  and 
made  chasms  in  the  shield. 

'These  are  not  good  weapons,  O  my  King/  said  the  boy. 
Then  the  King  presented  him  with  others  that  were  larger  and 
stronger,  and  these,  too,  the  boy  brake  into  little  pieces. 

'These  are  still  worse,  O  son  of  Nessa,'  said  the  boy,  'and  it  is  not 
seemly,  O  Chief  of  the  Red  Branch,  that  on  the  day  that  I  am  to 
receive  my  arms  I  should  be  made  a  laughing-stock  before  the 
Clanna  Rury,  being  yet  but  a  boy.' 

But  Concobar  Mac  Nessa  exulted  exceedingly  when  he  beheld 
the  amazing  strength  and  the  waywardness  of  the  boy,  and  be- 
neath delicate  brows  his  eyes  glittered  like  glittering  swords  as  he 
glanced  rapidly  round  on  the  crowd  of  martial  men  that  surrounded 
him;  but  amongst  them  all  he  seemed  himself  a  bright  torch  of 
valour  and  war,  more  pure  and  clear  than  polished  steel.  But  he 
beckoned  to  one  of  his  knights,  who  hastened  away  and  returned, 
bringing  Concobar's  own  shield  and  spears  and  sword  out  of  the 
Tayta  Brae,  where  they  were  kept,  an  equipment  in  reserve.  And 
Cuculain  shook  them  and  bent  them,  and  clashed  them  together,  but 
they  held  firm. 

'These  are  good  arms,  O  son  of  Nessa,'  said  Cuculain. 
Then  there  were  led  forward  a  pair  of  noble  steeds  and  a  war- 
car,  and  the  king  conferred  them  on  Cuculain.  Then  Cuculain 
sprang  into  the  chariot,  and  standing  with  legs  apart,  he  stamped 
from  side  to  side  and  shook  and  shook,  and  jolted  the  car  until  the 
axle  brake,  and  the  car  itself  was  broken  to  pieces. 
'This  is  not  a  good  chariot,  O  my  King,'  said  the  boy. 


1  From  History  of  Ireland:  Heroic  Period,  London  and  Dublin,  1878.  This  and  the  two 
following  selections,  episodes  in  the  life  of  the  greatest  of  Irish  mythical  heroes,  come  from 
the  Red  Branch  (or  Ulster)  cycle  of  tales. 

2  Tabus.  More  correctly  geasa. 

30 


THE   KNIGHTING   OF   CUCULAIN  31 

Then  there  were  led  forward  three  chariots,  and  all  these  he 
brake  in  succession. 

'These  are  not  good  chariots,  O  Chief  of  the  Red  Branch,'  said 
Cuculain.  'No  brave  warrior  would  enter  the  battle  or  fight  from 
such  rotten  foothold.' 

Then  the  King  called  to  his  son  Cowshra  Mend  Macha  and  bade 
him  take  Laeg,  and  harness  to  the  war-chariot,  of  which  he  had  the 
care,  the  wondrous  grey  steed,  and  that  one  which  had  been  given 
him  by  Kelkar,  the  son  of  Uther,  and  to  give  Laeg  a  charioteering 
equipment  to  be  charioteer  of  Cuculain.  For  now  it  was  apparent 
to  all  the  nobles  and  to  the  King  that  a  lion  of  war  had  appeared 
amongst  them,  and  that  it  was  for  him  that  Macha  had  sent  these 
omens. 

Then  Cuculain's  heart  leaped  in  his  breast  when  he  heard  the 
thunder  of  the  great  war-car  and  the  mad  whinnying  of  the  horses 
that  smelt  the  battle  afar.  Soon  he  beheld  them  with  his  eyes, 
and  the  charioteer  with  the  golden  fillet  of  his  office,  erect  in  the 
car,  struggling  to  subdue  their  fury.  A  grey  long-maned  steed, 
whale-bellied,  broad-chested,  behind  one  yoke,  a  black,  tufty- 
maned  steed  behind  the  other. 

Like  a  hawk  swooping  along  the  face  of  a  cliff  when  the  wind  is 
high,  or  like  the  rush  of  the  March  wind  over  the  smooth  plain,  or 
like  the  fleetness  of  the  stag  roused  from  his  lair  by  the  hounds, 
and  covering  his  first  field,  was  the  rush  of  those  steeds  when  they 
had  broken  through  the  restraint  of  the  charioteer,  as  though  they 
galloped  over  fiery  flags,  so  that  the  earth  shook  and  trembled  with 
the  velocity  of  their  motion,  and  all  the  time  the  great  car  brayed 
and  shrieked  as  the  wheels  of  solid  and  glittering  bronze  went 
round,  for  there  were  demons  that  had  their  abode  in  that  car. 

The  charioteer  restrained  the  steeds  before  the  assembly,  but 
nay-the-less  a  deep  purr,  like  the  purr  of  a  tiger,  proceeded  from 
the  axle.  Then  the  whole  assembly  lifted  up  their  voices  and 
shouted  for  Cuculain,  and  he  himself,  Cuculain,  the  son  of 
Sualtam,  sprang  into  his  chariot,  all  armed,  with  a  cry  as  of  a  warrior 
springing  into  his  chariot  in  the  battle,  and  he  stood  erect  and 
brandished  his  spears,  and  the  war-sprites  of  the  Gael  shouted 
along  with  him,  for  the  Bocanahs  and  Bananahs  and  the  Geniti 
Glindi,  the  wild  people  of  the  glens,  and  the  demons  of  the  air, 
roared  around  him,  when  first  the  great  warrior  of  the  Gael,  his 
battle-arms  in  his  hands,  stood  equipped  for  war  in  his  chariot  be- 


32  STANDISH   OGRADY 

fore  all  the  warriors  of  his  tribe,  the  kings  of  the  Clanna  Rury  and 
the  people  of  Emain  Macha.  Then  Cuculain  bid  Laeg  let  the  steeds 
go,  and  they  flew  away  rapidly,  and  three  times  they  encircled 
Emain  Macha.  Then  said  Cuculain: 

'Where  leads  the  great  road  yonder?' 

'To  Ath-na-Forary  and  the  border  of  the  Crave  Rue,'1  said 
Laeg. 

'And  wherefore  is  it  called  "the  Ford  of  the  Watchings?" '  said 
Cuculain. 

'Because,'  said  Laeg,  'there  is  always  one  of  the  king's  knights 
there  keeping  ward  and  watch  over  the  gate  of  the  province.' 

'Guide  thither  my  horses,'  said  Cuculain,  'for  I  have  sworn  not  to 
lay  aside  my  arms  to-day  until  I  have  wetted  them  in  the  blood  of 
one  of  the  enemies  of  my  tribe;  and  who  is  it  who  is  over  the  gar- 
rison this  day?' 

'It  is  Konal  Kama  who  commands  there  this  day,'  said  Laeg. 

Now,  as  they  were  drawing  near  to  the  ford,  the  watchman  heard 
the  rolling  of  the  chariot  and  the  trampling  of  the  horses,  and  they 
sent  word  to  Konal  that  a  war-chariot  was  approaching  from 
Emain  Macha,  but  Konal  came  out  of  the  Dun  with  his  people,  and 
when  he  saw  Cuculain  in  the  war-car  of  the  king,  and  his  glittering 
weapons  around  him,  he  began  to  laugh,  and  said,  Is  it  arms  the 
boy  has  taken?' 

And  Cuculain  said,  'Indeed  it  is,  and  I  have  sworn  not  let  them 
back  into  the  Tayta  Brae  until  I  have  wetted  them  in  the  blood  of 
one  of  the  enemies  of  Ulla.'  2 

Then  Konal  ceased  laughing  and  said,  'You  shall  not  do  this, 
Setanta,  for  you  shall  not  be  permitted,'  and  he  held  back  the 
horses,  but  Cuculain  forced  the  horses  onwards,  and  Konal  fell 
back. 

Then  cried  Konal  to  his  charioteer,  'Harness  my  horses,  for  if  this 
mad  boy  ventures  into  the  territory  of  the  enemy  and  meets  with 
hurt  I  shall  never  be  forgiven  by  the  Ultonians.'  Now  the  territories 
of  Mid-Erin  were  hostile  to  Concobar  through  the  expatriation  and 
defeat  of  Fergus. 

But  the  horses  were  quickly  yoked,  and  Konal  Kama  dashed 
through  the  ford,  and  straightway  he  came  up  to  Cuculain  and 


1  Red  Branch,  name  of  the  Ulster  Order  of  Knighthood. 

2  Ulster. 


THE   KNIGHTING   OF   CUCULAIN  33 

drove  for  a  while  abreast  of  the  boy,  urging  him  to  return.  Then 
Cuculain  stood  up  on  both  feet  with  his  legs  far  apart  in  the  car, 
and  raising  high  above  his  head  in  his  hands  a  large  stone  which 
Laeg  had  picked  from  the  highway,  he  dashed  it  with  all  his  force 
on  the  pole  of  Konal  Kama's  chariot,  and  the  pole  was  broken  in 
twain,  and  the  chariot  fell  down,  and  the  chief  of  the  Red  Branch, 
Konal  Kama,  the  beauty  of  the  Ultonians,  was  rolled  out  of  the 
chariot  upon  the  road,  and  was  defiled  with  dust. 

'Do  you  think  that  I  can  throw  straight?'  cried  Cuculain;  'and 
now  that  you  remind  me,  it  is  one  of  the  vows  of  our  order  never  to 
go  with  insecure  trappings,  rotten  chariot-poles,  or  the  like.' 

Then  Konal  got  up  out  of  the  dust,  and  swore  that  if  a  step  would 
save  Cuculain's  head  from  the  men  of  Meath  he  would  not  take  it. 

But  Cuculain  laughed  again,  and  Laeg  urged  on  the  steeds.  Now 
as  they  drew  near  the  Boyne  and  the  point  where  it  receives  the 
waters  of  the  Mattok  there  was  a  great  Dun.  In  this  Dun  lived 
three  brothers,  the  three  sons  of  Nectan,  renowned  amongst  the 
tribes  of  Meath  for  valour  and  strength.  Then  as  they  drew  nigh 
the  Dun,  Cuculain  shouted  insults  and  challenges  with  a  loud 
voice,  for  the  brothers  had  seen  the  war-car  of  Concobar  Mac 
Nessa  far  away,  and  their  own  chariots  were  prepared,  and  they 
had  despatched  messengers  on  every  side  to  cut  off  the  retreat  of 
the  men  of  Ulla.  Then  Laeg  checked  the  horses,  and  Cuculain 
descended  upon  the  ground,  and  fitted  an  iron  bullet  to  his  sling, 
and  he  slung  and  killed  the  first  of  the  warriors,  and  slung  again 
and  killed  the  second,  and  he  slung  the  third  time  with  all  his  might 
against  the  warrior,  who  was  almost  upon  them,  his  strong  shield 
held  before  him,  while  he  crouched  down  in  the  chariot,  and  the 
iron  bullet  passed  through  the  bronze  shield  and  through  his 
forehead,  and  went  out  behind.  Then  Cuculain  drew  his  sword,  and 
ran  and  cut  off  the  heads  of  the  slain,  and  sprang  into  the  chariot, 
and  Laeg  flogged  the  steeds,  who  flew  northwards  again,  swifter 
than  the  wind,  for  already  they  saw  signals  and  fires,  and  horsemen 
galloping  across  the  country  to  intercept  their  passage  to  the 
north.  But  they  escaped  out  of  the  jaws  of  the  enemy,  and  reached 
Ath-na-Forary,  and  when  Konal  saw  the  heads  of  the  men  of 
Meath,  and  recognised  who  were  those  warriors,  he  was  filled 
with  wonder,  and  he  sent  men  of  war  to  conduct  him  back  to 
Emain  Macha,  and  the  whole  city  came  out  to  welcome  the  young 


34  STANDISH   OGRADY 

knight.  Then  his  arms  were  hung  up  in  the  Tayta  Brae,  but 
Cuculain  himself  went  back  to  his  comrades,  and  he  slept  with 
them,  and  did  not  go  out  with  the  Red  Branch. 


The  Duel  of  Cuculain  and  Fardia1 

1  hen  arose  Cuculain,  the  unconquerable,  striding  through  the 
forest,  and  he  wondered  which  of  the  great  champions  of  Meave 
should  be  brought  against  him  that  day;  and  when  he  came  out 
into  the  open,  he  beheld  the  whole  south  country  filled  with  a  vast 
multitude,  as  it  had  been  the  Aenech2  of  Taylteen  or  the  great 
Feis3  of  Tara  when  the  authority  of  the  Ard-Rie4  is  supreme,  and 
all  the  tribes  of  Erin  gather  together  with  their  kings.  But  he  saw 
not  at  first  who  was  the  champion  that  had  come  out  against  him, 
and  he  advanced  through  the  willows,  and  came  to  the  edge  of 
the  ford,  and  looked  across,  and  he  saw  Fardia,  son  of  Daman,  of 
the  Fir-bolgs,  and  Fardia  looked  upon  Cuculain,  and  Cuculain 
looked  upon  Fardia. 

Then  Cuculain  blushed,  and  his  neck  and  face  above,  and  his 
temples  waxed  fiery  red,  and  then  again,  paler  than  the  white 
flower  of  the  thorn,  and  his  under  jaw  fell,  and  he  stood  like  one 
stupefied;  but  Fardia  held  his  shield  unmoved,  with  his  spears  rest- 
ing on  the  ground,  and  beneath  the  heavy  cathbarr5  his  brows 
stronger  than  brass. 

But  Cuculain  sent  forth  a  voice  hoarse  and  untuned,  and  said: 

Is  it  Fardia  Mac  Daman  of  the  Fir-bolgs,  for  there  is  a  mist  be- 
fore my  eyes?' 

But  Fardia  answered  not. 

Then  said  Cuculain: 

'Art  thou  come  out  to  meet  me  in  arms  to-day  seeking  to  slay 
me?' 

And  Fardia  answered  sternly: 

'Go  back,  O  Cuculain,  to  thine  own  people,  and  cease  to  bar  the 


1  From  History  of  Ireland:  Heroic  Period,  London  &  Du 

2  A  fair. 

3  A  festival. 

*  High  King. 

5  A  helmet  or  headpiece.  In  modern  Gaelic  cathbharr. 


THE  DUEL  OF  CUCULAIN  AND  FARDIA  35 

gates  of  the  north  against  our  host,  and  I  shall  not  slay  thee  nor  dis- 
honour thee,  but  if  thou  remainest,  I  shall  slay  thee  here  at  the 
ford.  Therefore,  I  bid  thee  go  back  into  the  province.' 

But  Cuculain  answered  him,  and  his  voice  became  like  the  voice 
of  a  young  girl,  or  the  accents  of  one  seeking  an  alms. 

'And  is  it  thou  alone  of  all  this  great  host  that  has  come  out 
against  thy  friend,  seeking  to  slay  me  or  dishonour  me?  There  are 
the  battle-standards  of  all  the  warrior-tribes  of  Erin,  save  only  the 
Ultonians,  the  banners  of  the  children  of  Ith  and  Heber,  all  the  far- 
spreading  clans  of  Heremon,  the  children  of  Amergin  and  Brega  of 
Donn  and  Biela,  and  the  Desie  of  Temair;  there  are  the  warlike 
clans  of  the  Fomoroh,  and  the  remnant  of  the  people  of  Partholan, 
the  Clanna  Nemedh  from  the  great  harbour  southwards,  the  chil- 
dren of  Orba,  the  Ernai,  and  the  Osree,  the  Gamaradians,  and  the 
Clan  Dega.  Could  no  champion  be  sought  out  of  this  great  host 
that  covers  the  green  plains  of  Conaul  Murthemney  to  the  limits 
of  the  furthest  hills  to  come  out  against  me,  but  that  thou  alone 
shouldst  stand  forth  against  thy  friend?  Persist  not,  O  son  of 
Daman,  but  retire,  and  I  will  meet  three  champions  instead  of  one 
from  this  day  forward.  We  parted  with  mutual  gifts  and  with  tears, 
why  does  thy  spear  now  thirst  after  my  blood,  and  why  dost  thou 
seek  to  dishonour  me?' 

And  Fardia  made  answer: 

'Other  champions,  by  their  prowess,  bear  away  many  gifts,  why 
should  I  ever  have  my  hands  empty?  Bright  as  the  sun  is  the 
brooch  of  Meave,  which  she  has  given  me,  the  Royal  Brooch  of 
Cruhane,  emblem  of  sovereignty  amongst  the  Gael.  Gems  glitter 
along  the  rim.  Like  a  level  sunbeam  in  the  forest  is  the  shining 
delg1  of  it.  I  shall  have  honour  while  I  live,  and  my  clan  after  me 
shall  be  glorious  to  the  end  of  time.  Therefore,  prepare  for  battle,  O 
son  of  Sualtam;  I  remember  thee  not  at  all,  or  as  one  whom  years 
since  I  met,  and  straight  again  forgot.  Therefore,  prepare  thyself 
for  battle,  or  I  shall  slay  thee  off  thy  guard.' 

And  Cuculain  said: 

'O  Fardia,  I  believe  thee  not.  Full  well  dost  thou  remember.  Be- 
neath the  same  rug  we  slept,  and  sat  together  at  the  feast,  and  side 
by  side  we  went  into  the  red  battle.  Together  we  consumed  cities, 
and  drave  away  captives.  Together  we  practised  feats  of  arms  be- 
fore the  warrior-queen,   grieving  when  either  got  any  hurt.  To- 

1  A  brooch.  In  modern  Gaelic  dealg. 


36  STANDISH    OGRADY 

gether  we  kept  back  the  streaming  foe  in  the  day  of  disaster,  when 
the  battle- torrent  roared  over  us,  either  guarding  the  other  more 
than  himself.' 

Then  beneath  his  lowering  brows  the  hot  tears  burst  forth  from 
the  eyes  of  the  son  of  Daman,  and  fell  continuously  from  his  beard, 
and  he  answered  with  a  voice  most  stern,  but  that  held  within  it  a 
piteous  tone  like  a  vessel  in  which  the  careless  eye  sees  not  the 
hidden  flaw,  but  at  a  touch,  lo,  it  is  broken.  So  sounded  the  stern 
voice  of  the  warrior. 

'Go  back  now,  O  Cuculain,  to  thy  pleasant  Dun — Dun  Dalgan 
upon  the  sea.  Go  back  now,  for  I  would  not  slay  thee,  and  rule  over 
Murthemney  and  the  rough  headland  of  thy  sires,  and  Meave  will 
not  waste  thy  territory  or  injure  aught  that  is  thine.  And  care  no 
more  for  the  Red  Branch,  for  they  have  forsaken  thee,  and  given 
thee  over  to  destruction,  who  have  conspired  against  thee,  trusting 
in  thy  great  heart  that  thou  wouldst  be  slain  on  the  marches  of  the 
province,  holding  the  gates  of  the  north  against  their  foes,  for 
Hound  is  thy  name  and  Royal  Hound  thy  nature.  Therefore,  go 
back,  O  Cuculain,  and  save  thy  young  life;  return  now  to  thy  in- 
fant son  and  thy  sweet  bride.  Go  back,  O  Cuculain,  for  sweet  is 
life,  the  life  of  the  warrior,  and  very  dark  and  sorrowful  and  empty 
is  the  grave/ 

T  will  not  go  back,  O  Fardia  Mac  Daman,  but  here  on  the 
marches,  while  there  is  blood  in  my  veins,  and  while  reason  like  a 
king  rebelled  against  but  unsubdued,  holds  the  sovereignty  of  my 
mind,  shall  I  contest  the  borders  of  my  nation,  though  forsaken  and 
alone.  My  people  have  indeed  abandoned  me  and  conspired  for 
my  destruction;  but  there  is  no  power  in  Erin  to  dissolve  my 
knightship  to  the  son  of  Nessa  and  my  kinship  with  the  Crave 
Rue.  Though  they  hate  me,  yet  cannot  I  eject  the  love  out  of  my 
heart.  And  not  the  kings  alone  and  the  might  of  the  Crave  Rue, 
but  the  women  and  the  young  children  of  Ulla  are  under  my  pro- 
tection, and  all  the  unwarlike  tribes,  and  this  the  sacred  soil  of 
Ulla  upon  which  I  stand.  And  this  too  well  I  know,  that  no  power 
in  the  earth  or  in  the  air  can  keep  the  Red  Branch  my  foe  for  ever, 
and  that  loud  and  deep  will  be  their  sorrow  when  the  red  pyre 
flames  beneath  me.  And  seek  not  to  terrify  me  with  death,  O  son  of 
Daman,  for  of  yore  too  our  minds  did  not  agree,  for  dark  and  sor- 
rowful death  is  not,  but  a  passage  to  the  land  of  the  ever  young,  the 
Tiernanog.  There  shall  I  see  the  Tuatha  face  to  face,  and  there  the 


THE  DUEL  OF  CUCULAIN  AND  FARDIA  37 

heroic  sons  of  Milith  and  himself,  a  mighty  shade,  and  there  all 
the  noblest  of  the  earth.  There  hatred  and  scorn  are  not  known,  nor 
the  rupturing  of  friendships,  but  sweet  love  rules  over  all.' 

'Go  back,  O  Cuculain,  go  back  now  again,  for  I  would  not  slay 
thee.  Think  no  more  of  the  son  of  Nessa  and  the  Red  Branch, 
than  whom  the  race  of  Milith  hath  produced  naught  fiercer  or 
more  baleful.  Rooted  out  and  cast  down  shall  be  the  Red  Branch  in 
this  foray,  whether  thou,  O  Cuculain,  survivest  or  art  slain.  Go 
back,  O  son  of  Sualtam,  return  to  thine  own  Dun.  Once  indeed  thou 
wast  obedient  to  me  and  served  me,  and  polished  my  armour,  and 
tied  up  my  spears  submissive  to  my  commands.  Therefore  go  back; 
add  not  thy  blood  to  the  bloody  stream.' 

'Revilest  thou  my  nation,  O  son  of  Daman.  Talk  no  more  now, 
but  prepare  thyself  for  battle  and  for  death.  I  will  not  obey  thee 
or  retire  before  thee,  nor  shalt  thou  at  all  dishonour  me  as  thou  hast 
most  foully  dishonoured  thyself.  This  indeed  I  well  know,  that  I 
shall  be  slain  at  the  ford  when  my  strength  has  passed  away,  or  my 
mind  is  overthrown;  but  by  thee,  O  son  of  Daman,  I  shall  not  meet 
my  death.  Once  indeed  I  was  subservient  to  thee,  because  I  was 
younger  than  thee.  Therefore  was  I  then  as  a  servant  unto  thee, 
but  not  now;  and  which  of  us  twain  shall  die  I  know,  and  it  is 
thou,  O  Fardia,  son  of  Daman.' 

Therewith  then  they  fought,  and  Cuculain  had  no  weapon  save 
only  his  colg,1  for  the  Gae  Bulg,  the  rude  spear  which  he  had  fash- 
ioned, he  dropped  upon  the  shore,  and  Fardia  discharged  his 
javelins  at  the  same  time,  for  he  was  ambidexter,  and  quick  as  light- 
ning. Cuculain  avoided  them,  and  they  stuck  trembling  in  the 
thither  bank,  and  quick  to  right  and  left  Cuculain  severed  the 
leathern  thongs2  rushing  forward.  Then  drew  Fardia  his  mighty 
sword  that  made  a  flaming  crescent  as  it  flashed  most  bright  and  ter- 
rible, and  rushed  headlong  upon  Cuculain,  and  they  met  in  the 
midst  of  the  ford.  But  straightway  there  arose  a  spray  and  a  mist 
from  the  trampling  of  the  heroes,  and  through  the  mist  their  forms 
moved  hugely,  like  two  giants  of  the  Fomoroh  contending  in  a 
storm.  But  the  war-demons  too  contended  around  them  fighting, 
the  Bocanahs  and  Bananahs,  the  wild  people  of  the  glens  and 
the  demons  of  the  air,  and  the  fiercer  and  more  blood-thirsty  of  the 


1  A  sword. 

2  The   Irish   fastened   leather   thongs   to    their   javelins    with    which    to    pull    them    back   if 
they  missed  the  mark. 


38  STANDISH   OGRADY 

Tuatha  de  Danan,  and  screeched  in  the  clamour  of  the  warriors,  the 
clash  of  the  shields  and  the  clatter  of  land  (sic)  and  meeting  colg. 
But  the  warriors  of  Meave  turned  pale,  and  the  war-steeds  brake 
loose,  and  flew  through  the  plain  with  the  war-cars,  and  the 
women  and  camp-followers  brake  forth  and  fled,  and  the  upper 
water  of  the  divine  stream  gathered  together  for  fear,  and  reared  it- 
self aloft  like  a  steed  that  has  seen  a  spectre,  with  jags  of  torn  water 
and  tossing  foam.  But  Cuculain  was  red  all  over,  like  a  garment 
raised  out  of  the  dyeing-vat,  and  Fardia's  great  sword  made  havoc 
in  his  unarmoured  flesh.  Three  times  Cuculain  closed  with  the  Fir- 
bolg,  seeking  to  get  within  the  ponderous  shield,  and  three  times 
the  son  of  Daman  cast  him  off,  as  the  cliffs  of  Eyrus  cast  off  a 
foaming  billow  of  the  great  sea;  but  when  the  fourth  time  he  was 
rushing  on  like  a  storm,  he  heard  as  it  were  the  voice  of  Laeg,  the 
son  of  Riangowra,  taunting  and  insulting  him,  and  himself  he  saw, 
standing  in  the  river  ford  on  the  left,  for  he  was  accustomed  to  re- 
vile Cuculain.  Yet  this  time  too  the  Fir-bolg  cast  him  off,  and  ad- 
vanced upon  Cuculain  to  slay  him.  Then  stepped  back  Cuculain 
quickly,  and  the  men  of  Meave  shouted,  for  Cuculain's  shield  was 
falling  to  pieces.  But  again  rushed  forward  the  hound  of  Ulla, 
stooping,  with  the  Gae  Bulg  in  his  hand,  using  it  like  a  spearman 
in  the  battle,  and  he  drove  Fardia  through  the  ford  and  upon  the 
hither  bank,  pressed  against  the  shield,  but  Fardia  himself  too  re- 
treated back.  But  when  the  Fir-bolgs  saw  what  was  done  they 
feared  mightily  for  their  champion,  and  raised  a  sudden  howl  of 
lamentation  and  rage,  and  rushed  forward,  breaking  through  the 
guards.  Which  when  Fergus  MacRoy  beheld,  he  sprang  down  from 
his  chariot,  shouting  dreadfully,  and  put  his  hand  into  the  hollow 
of  his  shield,  and  took  out  his  battlestone,  and  smote  Imchall,  the 
son  of  Dega,  with  the  battlestone  upon  the  head,  and  he  fell  rushing 
forward  amongst  the  first.  But  Cormac  Conlingas  and  Mainey 
Lamgarf  ran  thither  with  the  queen's  spearmen  restraining  the  Fir- 
bolgs. 

But,  meantime,  Cuculain  lifted  suddenly  the  Gae  Bulg  above  his 
head,  and  plunged  it  into  Fardia;  but  it  passed  through  the  upper 
rim  of  the  brazen  shield,  and  through  the  strong  bones  of  his  breast 
beneath  his  beard,  and  he  fell  backward  with  a  crash,  and  grasped 
with  out-stretched  hands  at  the  ground,  and  his  spirit  went  out  of 
him,  and  he  died. 

But  Cuculain  plucked  out  the  spear,  and  stood  above  him,  pant- 


THE   DEATH   OF   CUCULAIN  39 

ing,  as  a  hound  pants  returning  from  the  chase,  and  the  war-demons 
passed  out  of  him,  and  he  looked  upon  Fardia,  and  a  great  sorrow 
overwhelmed  him,  and  he  lamented  and  moaned  over  Fardia,  join- 
ing his  voice  to  the  howl  of  the  people  of  Fardia,  the  great- 
hearted children  of  Mac  Ere,  and  he  took  off  the  cathbarr  from  the 
head  of  Fardia,  and  unwound  his  yellow  hair,  tress  after  bright 
tress,  most  beautiful,  shedding  many  tears,  and  he  opened  the 
battle-dress  and  took  out  the  queen's  brooch — that  for  which  his 
friend  had  come  to  slay  him — and  he  cursed  the  lifeless  metal,  and 
cast  it  from  him  into  the  air,  southwards  over  the  host,  and  men 
saw  it  no  more. 


The  Death  of  Cuculain1 

JVLore  terrible  than  at  any  other  time  was  the  son  of  Sualtam 
in  those  battles  which  he  entered  in  the  naked  majesty  of  his  ir- 
resistible strength,  shorn  of  his  glory,  and  having  lost  his  magic  at- 
tributes, for  this  time  he  went  to  war  like  one  who  has  devoted 
himself  to  death.  Around  him  the  shadows  thickened,  but  like  a 
light  in  darkness,  his  valour  shone  the  brighter  as  before  his  fast- 
lessening  warriors  he  charged  the  armies  of  the  great  Queen.  Over 
the  plains  of  Murthemney,  between  Dundalgan  and  the  Boyne, 
pealed  the  voice  of  the  son  of  Sualtam,  shouting  amid  his  warriors, 
and  ever  the  southern  host  gave  way  before  him,  and  their  bat- 
talions were  confused. 

Then  northward  in  the  hills  collected  the  people  of  Ulla,  the 
unwarlike  tribes,  seeing  afar  that  one  hero,  and  the  fast-lessening 
ranks  of  the  Ultonians,  where  the  great  champion  of  the  north 
fought  on  against  the  immense  overflowing  host  of  the  Four 
Provinces. 

But  as  the  Ultonians  grew  less  in  the  dread  conflict,  the  south- 
ern warriors  precipitated  themselves  upon  Cuculain,  and  like  a 
great  rock  over  which  rolls  some  mighty  billow  of  the  western  sea, 
so  was  Cuculain  often  submerged  in  their  overflowing  tide;  and  as 
with  the  down-sinking  billow  the  same  rock  reappears  in  its  invin- 
cible greatness,  and  the  white  brine  runs  down  its  stubborn  ribs,  so 

1  From  History  of  Ireland:  Cuculain  and  His  Contemporaries,  London  &  Dublin,  1880. 


40  STANDISH   OGRADY 

the  son  of  Sualtam  perpetually  reappeared  scattering  and  destroying 
his  foes.  Then  crashed  his  battle  mace  through  opposing  shields; 
then  flew  the  foam-flakes  from  his  lips  over  his  reddened  garments; 
baleful  shone  his  eyes  beneath  his  brows,  and  his  voice  died  away 
in  his  throat  till  it  became  a  hoarse  whisper.  Often,  too,  Laeg 
charged  with  the  war-car,  and  extricated  him  surrounded,  and  the 
mighty  steeds  tramped  down  opposing  squadrons,  and  many  a 
southern  hero  was  transfixed  with  the  chariot-spear,  or  divided  by 
the  brazen  scythes. 

It  was  on  the  eighth  day,  two  hours  after  noon,  that  Cuculain 
raising  his  eyes  beheld  where  the  last  of  the  Red  Branch  were 
overwhelmed,  and  he  and  Laeg  were  abandoned  and  alone,  and  he 
heard  Laeg  shouting,  for  he  was  surrounded  by  a  battalion,  and 
Cuculain  hastened  back  to  defend  him,  and  sprang  into  the  chariot, 
bounding  over  the  rim,  and  extended  Fabane  above  him  on  the  left. 
There  he  intercepted  three  javelins  cast  against  the  charioteer  by  a 
Lagenian  hand;  but  Ere,  son  of  Cairbre  Nia-far,  pursued  him, 
and  at  the  same  time  cast  his  spear  from  the  right.  Through 
Cuculain  it  passed,  breaking  through  the  battle-shirt  and  the  waist- 
piece,  and  it  pierced  his  left  side  between  the  hip-bone  and  the 
lowest  rib,  and  transfixed  Laeg  in  the  stomach  above  the  navel. 
Then  fell  the  reins  from  the  hands  of  Laeg. 

'How  is  it  with  thee,  O  Laeg?'  said  then  Cuculain. 

And  Laeg  answered: 

T  have  had  enough  this  time,  O  my  dear  master.  Truly  thou  hast 
fulfilled  thy  vow,  for  it  was  through  thee  that  I  have  been  slain.' 

Then  Cuculain  cut  through  the  spear-tree  with  his  colg,  and  tore 
forth  the  tree  out  of  himself;  but  meantime,  Lewy  Mac  Conroi 
stabbed  black  Shanglan  with  his  red  hands,  driving  the  spear 
through  his  left  side,  behind  the  shoulder,  and  Shanglan  fell,  over- 
turning the  war-car,  and  Cuculain  sprang  forth,  but  as  he  sprang, 
Lewy  Mac  Conroi  pierced  him  through  the  bowels.  Then  fell  the 
great  hero  of  the  Gael. 

Thereat  the  sun  darkened,  and  the  earth  trembled,  and  a  wail  of 
agony  from  immortal  mouths  shrilled  across  the  land,  and  a  pale 
panic  smote  the  vast  host  of  Meave  when,  with  a  crash,  fell  that 
pillar  of  heroism,  and  that  flame  of  the  warlike  valour  of  Erin  was 
extinguished.  Then,  too,  from  his  slain  comrade  brake  forth  the 
Liath  Macha,  for,  like  a  housewife's  thread,  the  divine  steed  brake 
the  traces,  and  the  brazen  chains,   and  the  yoke,   and  bounded 


THE   DEATH   OF   CUCULAIN  41 

forth  neighing,  and  three  times  he  encircled  the  heroes,  trampling 
down  the  host  of  Meave.  Afar  then  retreated  the  host,  and  the 
Liath  Macha,  wearing  still  the  broken  collar,  went  back  into  the 
realms  of  the  unseen,  and  entered  his  house  upon  the  Boyne, 
where,  since  the  ancient  days,  was  his  mysterious  dwelling-place. 

But  Cuculain  kissed  Laeg,  and  Laeg,  dying,  said: 

'Farewell,  O  dear  master,  and  schoolfellow.  Till  the  end  of  the 
world  no  servant  will  ever  have  a  better  master  than  thou  hast 
been  to  me.' 

And  Cuculain  said: 

'Farewell,  O  dear  Laeg.  The  gods  of  Erin  have  deserted  us,  and 
the  Clan  Cailitin  are  now  abroad,  and  what  will  happen  to  us 
henceforward  I  know  not.  But  true  and  faithful  thou  hast  ever 
been  to  me,  and  it  is  now  seventeen  years  since  we  plighted 
friendship,  and  no  angry  word  has  ever  passed  between  us  since 
then/ 

Then  the  spirit  went  out  of  Laeg,  and  he  died,  and  Cuculain, 
raising  his  eyes,  saw  thence  north-westward,  about  two  hundred 
yards,  a  small  lake  called  Loch-an-Tanaigte,  and  he  tore  forth  from 
himself  the  bloody  spear,  and  went  staggering,  and  at  times  he  fell, 
nevertheless  he  reached  the  lake,  and  stooped  down  and  drank  a 
deep  draught  of  the  pure  cold  water,  keen  with  frost,  and  the  burn- 
ing fever  in  his  veins  was  allayed.  After  that  he  arose,  and  saw 
northwards  from  the  lake  a  tall  pillar-stone,  the  grave  of  a  warrior 
slain  there  in  some  ancient  war,  and  its  name  was  Carrig-an- 
Compan.  When  Cuculain  first  saw  it  there  was  standing  upon  it  a 
grey-necked  crow,  which  retired  as  he  approached.  With  difficulty 
he  reached  it,  and  he  leaned  awhile  against  the  pillar,  for  his  mind 
wandered,  and  he  knew  nothing  for  a  space. 

After  that  he  took  off  his  brooch,  and,  removing  the  torn  bratta,1 
he  passed  it  round  the  top  of  the  pillar,  where  there  was  an  in- 
dentation in  the  stone,  and  passed  the  ends  under  his  arms  and 
around  his  breast,  tying  with  languid  hands  a  loose  knot,  which 
soon  was  made  fast  by  the  weight  of  the  dying  hero.  But  the  host 
of  Meave,  when  they  beheld  him,  retired  again,  for  they  said  that 
he  was  immortal,  and  that  Lu  Lamfada  would  once  more  come 
down  out  of  fairyland  to  his  aid,  and  that  they  would  wreak  a  ter- 
rible vengeance.  So  afar  they  retreated,  when  they  beheld  him 
standing  with  the  drawn  sword  in  his  hand,  and  the  rays  of  the  set- 

1  A  cloak.  In  modern  Gaelic  brat. 


42  STANDISH   OGRADY 

ting  sun  bright  on  his  panic-striking  helmet.  So  stood  Cuculain, 
even  in  death-pangs,  a  terror  to  his  enemies,  and  the  bulwark  of  his 
nation. 

Now,  as  Cuculain  stood  dying,  a  stream  of  blood  trickled  from 
his  wounds,  and  ran  in  devious  ways  down  to  the  lake,  and  poured 
its  tiny  red  current  into  the  pure  water;  and  as  Cuculain  looked 
upon  it,  thinking  many  things  in  his  deep  mind,  there  came  forth 
an  otter  out  of  the  reeds  of  the  lake  and  approached  the  pebbly 
strand,  where  the  blood  flowed  into  the  water,  having  been 
attracted  thither  by  the  smell,  and  at  the  point  where  the  blood 
flowed  into  the  lake,  he  lapped  up  the  life-blood  of  the  hero,  look- 
ing up  from  time  to  time,  after  the  manner  of  a  dog  feeding.  Which 
seeing,  Cuculain  gazed  upon  the  otter,  and  he  smiled  for  the  last 
time,  and  said: 

'O  thou  greedy  water-dog,  often  in  my  boyhood  have  I  pursued 
thy  race  in  the  rivers  and  lakes  of  Murthemney;  but  now  thou 
hast  a  full  eric,1  who  drinkest  the  blood  of  me  dying.  Nor  do  I 
grudge  thee  this  thy  bloody  meal.  Drink  on,  thou  happy  beast.  To 
thee,  too,  doubtless,  there  will  some  time  be  an  hour  of  woe.' 

Then  to  Cuculain  appeared  a  vision,  and  he  deemed  that  he  saw 
Laeg  approaching,  riding  alone  on  black  Shanglan,  and  he  was 
glad  therefor,  and  he  deemed  that  Laeg  applied  healing  salves  to 
his  wounds.  And  Cuculain  said: 

'Go  now  straightway  to  Emain  Macha,  O  Laeg,  and  say  to 
Concobar  that  I  here  in  Murthemney  will  contend  till  I  perish 
against  the  invaders  of  Ulla,  and  give  my  benediction  to  my  uncle, 
the  great  King  of  the  Ultonians,  and  to  all  the  Red  Branch;  and  go 
to  Emer  and  tell  her  not  to  weep  for  me,  but  to  let  her  grief  be  of 
short  duration,  and  that  I  will  remember  her  while  life  endures/ 

Then  to  Cuculain  it  seemed  that  Laeg,  frowning,  said: 

'Surely,  O  Cu,  thy  peerless  and  noble  wife,  beautiful  Emer,  thou 
wouldst  never  forget/ 

After  that  Cuculain  dreamed  that  Laeg  went  off  to  Emain 
Macha,  and  that  he  heard  the  sound  of  the  hoofs  afar,  going  north- 
wards, and  a  terrible  loneliness  and  desolation  came  over  his  mind, 
and  again  he  saw  the  faces  of  that  wandering  clan,  and  they 
laughed  around  him  and  taunted  him,  and  said: 

'Thus  shalt  thou  perish,  O  Hound,  and  thus  shall  all  like  thee  be 
forsaken  and  deserted,  and  they  shall  perish  in  loneliness  and  sor- 

1  A  blood  fine  or  pecuniary  compensation  for  the  crime  of  murder. 


THE   DEATH   OF   CUCULAIN  43 

row.  And  early  death  and  desolation  shall  be  their  lot,  for  we  are 
powerful  over  men  and  over  gods,  and  the  kingdom  that  is  seen, 
and  the  kingdom  that  is  unseen  belong  to  us,'  and  they  ringed  him 
round,  and  chaunted  obscene  songs,  and  triumphed. 

Nevertheless  they  terrified  him  not,  for  a  deep  spring  of  stern 
valour  was  open  in  his  soul  and  the  might  of  his  unfathomable 
spirit  sustained  him. 

Then  was  Cuculain  aware  that  the  Clan  Cailitin  had  retired,  as 
though  in  fear,  and  there  stood  beside  him  a  child,  having  a  strange 
aspect,  and  he  took  Cuculain  by  the  hand,  and  said: 

'Regard  not  these  children  of  evil,  O  my  brother,  their  dominion 
is  but  for  a  time/ 

And  Cuculain  said: 

'What  god  art  thou  who  hast  conquered  the  Clan  Cailitin?' 

Thus  perished  Cuculain — 'mild,  handsome,  invincible,'  coev, 
aulin.  cinlaca. 


LADY    GREGORY 

The  Fate  of  the  Sons  of  Usnach1 


JNow  it  was  one  Fedlimid,  son  of  Doll,  was  harper  to  King  Con- 
chubar,  and  he  had  but  one  child,  and  this  is  the  story  of  her  birth. 

Cathbad,  the  Druid,  was  at  Fedlimid's  house  one  day.  'Have  you 
got  knowledge  of  the  future?'  said  Fedlimid.  'I  have  a  little/  said 
Cathbad.  'What  is  it  you  are  wanting  to  know?'  1  was  not  asking  to 
know  anything/  said  Fedlimid,  'but  if  you  know  of  anything  that 
may  be  going  to  happen  me,  it  is  as  well  for  you  to  tell  me.' 

Cathbad  went  out  of  the  house  for  a  while,  and  when  he  came 
back  he  said:  'Had  you  ever  any  children?'  'I  never  had/  said  Fed- 
limid, 'and  the  wife  I  have  had  none,  and  we  have  no  hope  ever  to 
have  any;  there  is  no  one  with  us  but  only  myself  and  my  wife.' 
'That  puts  wonder  on  me/  said  Cathbad,  'for  I  see  by  Druid  signs 
that  it  is  on  account  of  a  daughter  belonging  to  you,  that  more 
blood  will  be  shed  than  ever  was  shed  in  Ireland  since  time  and 
race  began.  And  great  heroes  and  bright  candles  of  the  Gael  will 
lose  their  lives  because  of  her.'  'Is  that  the  foretelling  you  have 
made  for  me?'  said  Fedlimid,  and  there  was  anger  on  him,  for  he 
thought  the  Druid  was  mocking  him;  'if  that  is  all  you  can  say,  you 
can  keep  it  for  yourself;  it  is  little  I  think  of  your  share  of  knowl- 
edge.' 'For  all  that/  said  Cathbad,  'I  am  certain  of  its  truth,  for  I 
can  see  it  all  clearly  in  my  own  mind.' 

The  Druid  went  away,  but  he  was  not  long  gone  when 
Fedlimid's  wife  was  found  to  be  with  child.  And  as  her  time  went  on, 
his  vexation  went  on  growing,  that  he  had  not  asked  more  questions 
of  Cathbad,  at  the  time  he  was  talking  to  him,  and  he  was  under  a 
smouldering  care  by  day  and  by  night,  for  it  is  what  he  was  think- 
ing, that  neither  his  own  sense  and  understanding  or  the  share  of 
friends  he  had,  would  be  able  to  save  him,  or  to  make  a  back 
against  the  world,  if  this  misfortune  should  come  upon  him,  that 
would  bring  such  great  shedding  of  blood  upon  the  earth;  and  it  is 
the  thought  that  came,  that  if  this  child  should  be  born,  what  he 
had  to  do  was  to  put  her  far  away,  where  no  eye  would  see  her, 
and  no  ear  hear  word  of  her. 


1  From  Cuchulain  of  Muirthemne ,  London,  1902.  The  story  of  Deirdre  is  the  great  love 
tale  of  the  Red  Branch  (or  Ulster)  cycle.  It  has  provided  Yeats,  Synge,  AE,  Stephens  and 
numerous  others  with  a  theme  for  tragedy,  epic  or  romance. 

44 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  45 

The  time  of  the  delivery  of  Fedlimid's  wife  came  on,  and  it  was  a 
girl-child  she  gave  birth  to.  Fedlimid  did  not  allow  any  living  per- 
son to  come  to  the  house  or  to  see  his  wife,  but  himself  alone. 

But  just  after  the  child  was  born,  Cathbad,  the  Druid,  came  in 
again,  and  there  was  shame  on  Fedlimid  when  he  saw  him,  and 
when  he  remembered  how  he  would  not  believe  his  words.  But  the 
Druid  looked  at  the  child  and  he  said;  'Let  Deirdre  be  her  name; 
harm  will  come  through  her. 

'She  will  be  fair,  comely,  bright-haired;  heroes  will  fight  for 
her,  and  kings  go  seeking  for  her/ 

And  then  he  took  the  child  in  his  arms,  and  it  is  what  he  said: 
'O  Deirdre,  on  whose  account  many  shall  weep,  on  whose  account 
many  women  shall  be  envious,  there  will  be  trouble  on  Ulster  for 
your  sake,  O  fair  daughter  of  Fedlimid. 

'Many  will  be  jealous  of  your  face,  O  flame  of  beauty;  for  your 
sake  heroes  shall  go  to  exile.  For  your  sake  deeds  of  anger  shall  be 
done  in  Emain;  there  is  harm  in  your  face,  for  it  will  bring  banish- 
ment and  death  on  the  sons  of  kings. 

'In  your  fate,  O  beautiful  child,  are  wounds,  and  ill-doings,  and 
shedding  of  blood. 

'You  will  have  a  little  grave  apart  to  yourself;  you  will  be  a  tale  of 
wonder  for  ever,  Deirdre.' 

Cathbad  went  away  then,  and  he  sent  Levarcham,  daughter  of 
Aedh,  to  the  house;  and  Fedlimid  asked  her  would  she  take  the 
venture  of  bringing,  up  the  child,  far  away  where  no  eye  would  see 
her,  and  no  ear  hear  of  her.  Levarcham  said  she  would  do  that,  and 
that  she  would  do  her  best  to  keep  her  the  way  he  wished. 

So  Fedlimid  got  his  men,  and  brought  them  away  with  him  to  a 
mountain,  wide  and  waste,  and  there  he  bade  them  to  make  a  lit- 
tle house,  by  the  side  of  a  round  green  hillock,  and  to  make  a  gar- 
den of  apple-trees  behind  it,  with  a  wall  about  it.  And  he  bade 
them  put  a  roof  of  green  sods  over  the  house,  the  way  a  little 
company  might  live  in  it,  without  notice  being  taken  of  them. 

Then  he  sent  Levarcham  and  the  child  there,  that  no  eye  might 
see,  and  no  ear  hear  of  Deirdre.  He  put  all  in  good  order  before 
them,  and  he  gave  them  provisions,  and  he  told  Levarcham  that 
food  and  all  she  wanted  would  be  sent  from  year  to  year  as  long  as 
she  lived. 

And  so  Deirdre  and  her  foster-mother  lived  in  the  lonely  place 
among  the  hills  without  the  knowledge  or  the  notice  of  any  strange 


46  LADY   GREGORY 

person,  until  Deirdre  was  fourteen  years  of  age.  And  Deirdre  grew 
straight  and  clean  like  a  rush  on  the  bog,  and  she  was  comely  be- 
yond comparison  of  all  the  women  of  the  world,  and  her  move- 
ments were  like  the  swan  on  the  wave,  or  the  deer  on  the  hill.  She 
was  the  young  girl  of  the  greatest  beauty  and  of  the  gentlest  nature 
of  all  the  women  of  Ireland. 

Levarcham,  that  had  charge  of  her,  used  to  be  giving  Deirdre 
every  knowledge  and  skill  that  she  had  herself.  There  was  not  a 
blade  of  grass  growing  from  root,  or  a  bird  singing  in  the  wood,  or 
a  star  shining  from  heaven,  but  Deirdre  had  the  name  of  it.  But 
there  was  one  thing  she  would  not  have  her  know,  she  would  not 
let  her  have  friendship  with  any  living  person  of  the  rest  of  the 
world  outside  their  own  house. 

But  one  dark  night  of  winter,  with  black  clouds  overhead,  a 
hunter  came  walking  the  hills,  and  it  is  what  happened,  he  missed 
the  track  of  the  hunt,  and  lost  his  way  and  his  comrades. 

And  a  heaviness  came  upon  him,  and  he  lay  down  on  the  side  of 
the  green  hillock  by  Deirdre's  house.  He  was  weak  with  hunger 
and  going,  and  perished  with  cold,  and  a  deep  sleep  came  upon 
him.  While  he  was  lying  there  a  dream  came  to  the  hunter,  and  he 
thought  that  he  was  near  the  warmth  of  a  house  of  the  Sidhe,1  and 
the  Sidhe  inside  making  music,  and  he  called  out  in  his  dream,  If 
there  is  any  one  inside,  let  them  bring  me  in,  in  the  name  of  the 
Sun  and  the  Moon.'  Deirdre  heard  the  voice,  and  she  said  to 
Levarcham,  'Mother,  mother,  what  is  that?'  But  Levarcham  said, 
It  is  nothing  that  matters;  it  is  the  birds  of  the  air  gone  astray,  and 
trying  to  find  one  another.  But  let  them  go  back  to  the  branches  of 
the  wood.'  Another  troubled  dream  came  on  the  hunter,  and  he 
cried  out  a  second  time.  'What  is  that?'  asked  Deirdre  again.  'It  is 
nothing  that  matters,'  said  Levarcham.  'The  birds  of  the  air  are 
looking  for  one  another;  let  them  go  past  to  the  branches  of  the 
wood.'  Then  a  third  dream  came  to  the  hunter,  and  he  cried  out  a 
third  time,  if  there  was  any  one  in  the  hill  to  let  him  in  for  the  sake  of 
the  Elements,  for  he  was  perished  with  cold  and  overcome  with 
hunger.  'Oh!  what  is  that,  Levarcham?'  said  Deirdre.  'There  is  noth- 
ing there  for  you  to  see,  my  child,  but  only  the  birds  of  the  air,  and 
they  lost  to  one  another,  but  let  them  go  past  us  to  the  branches 
of  the  wood.  There  is  no  place  or  shelter  for  them  here  to-night/ 
'Oh,  mother,'  said  Deirdre,  'the  bird  asked  to  come  in  for  the  sake  of 


1  Fairies,  pronounced  shee. 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  47 

the  Sun  and  the  Moon,  and  it  is  what  you  yourself  told  me,  that 
anything  that  is  asked  like  that,  it  is  right  for  us  to  give  it.  If  you  will 
not  let  in  the  bird  that  is  perished  with  cold  and  overcome  with 
hunger,  I  myself  will  let  it  in.'  So  Deirdre  rose  up  and  drew  the 
bolt  from  the  leaf  of  the  door,  and  let  in  the  hunter.  She  put  a  seat 
in  the  place  for  sitting,  food  in  the  place  for  eating,  and  drink  in  the 
place  for  drinking,  for  the  man  who  had  come  into  the  house. 
'Come  now  and  eat  food,  for  you  are  in  want  of  it,'  said  Deirdre. 
Indeed  it  is  I  was  in  want  of  food  and  drink  and  warmth  when  I 
came  into  this  house;  but  by  my  word,  I  have  forgotten  that  since 
I  saw  yourself,'  said  the  hunter.  'How  little  you  are  able  to  curb 
your  tongue,'  said  Levarcham.  'It  is  not  a  great  thing  for  you  to 
keep  your  tongue  quiet  when  you  get  the  shelter  of  a  house  and  the 
warmth  of  a  hearth  on  a  dark  winter  night.'  'That  is  so,'  said  the 
hunter,  'I  may  do  that  much,  to  keep  my  mouth  shut;  but  I  swear 
by  the  oath  my  people  swear  by,  if  some  others  of  the  people  of 
the  world  saw  this  great  beauty  that  is  hidden  away  here,  they 
would  not  leave  her  long  with  you.'  'What  people  are  those?'  said 
Deirdre.  'I  will  tell  you  that,'  said  the  hunter;  'they  are  Naoise,  son 
of  Usnach,  and  Ainnle  and  Ardan,  his  two  brothers.'  'What  is  the 
appearance  of  these  men,  if  we  should  ever  see  them?'  said 
Deirdre.  'This  is  the  appearance  that  is  on  those  three  men,'  said 
the  hunter:  'the  colour  of  the  raven  is  on  their  hair,  their  skin  is 
like  the  swan  on  the  wave,  their  cheeks  like  the  blood  of  the 
speckled  red  calf,  and  their  swiftness  and  their  leap  are  like  the 
salmon  of  the  stream  and  like  the  deer  of  the  grey  mountain;  and 
the  head  and  shoulders  of  Naoise  are  above  all  the  other  men  of 
Ireland.'  'However  they  may  be,'  said  Levarcham,  'get  you  out 
from  here,  and  take  another  road;  and  by  my  word,  little  is  my 
thankfulness  to  yourself;  or  to  her  that  let  you  in.'  'You  need  not 
send  him  out  for  telling  me  that,'  said  Deirdre,  'for  as  to  those  three 
men,  I  myself  saw  them  last  night  in  a  dream,  and  they  hunting 
upon  a  hill.' 

The  hunter  went  away,  but  in  a  little  time  after  he  began  to 
think  to  himself  how  Conchubar,  High  King  of  Ulster,  was  used  to 
lie  down  at  night  and  to  rise  up  in  the  morning  by  himself,  without 
a  wife  or  any  one  to  speak  to;  and  that  if  he  could  see  this  great 
beauty  it  was  likely  he  would  bring  her  home  to  Emain,  and  that 
he  himself  would  get  the  good-will  of  the  king  for  telling  him  there 
was  such  a  queen  to  be  found  on  the  face  of  the  world. 


48 


LADY  GREGORY 


So  he  went  straight  to  King  Conchubar  at  Emain  Macha,  and  he 
sent  word  in  to  the  king  that  he  had  news  for  him,  if  he  would  hear 
it.  The  king  sent  for  him  to  come  in.  'What  is  the  reason  of  your 
journey?'  he  said.  It  is  what  I  have  to  tell  you,  King,'  said  the 
hunter,  'that  I  have  seen  the  greatest  beauty  that  ever  was  born  in 
Ireland,  and  I  am  come  to  tell  you  of  it.' 

'Who  is  this  great  beauty,  and  in  what  place  is  she  to  be  seen, 
when  she  was  never  seen  before  you  saw  her,  if  you  did  see  her?'  1 
did  see  her,  indeed,'  said  the  hunter,  'but  no  other  man  can  see 
her,  unless  he  knows  from  me  the  place  where  she  is  living.'  'Will 
you  bring  me  to  the  place  where  she  is,  and  you  will  have  a  good 
reward?'  said  the  king.  'I  will  bring  you  there,'  said  the  hunter. 
'Let  you  stay  with  my  household  tonight,'  said  Conchubar,  'and  I 
myself  and  my  people  will  go  with  you  early  on  the  morning  of  to- 
morrow.' 'I  will  stay,'  said  the  hunter,  and  he  stayed  that  night  in 
the  household  of  King  Conchubar. 

Then  Conchubar  sent  to  Fergus  and  to  the  other  chief  men  of 
Ulster,  and  he  told  them  of  what  he  was  about  to  do.  Though  it 
was  early  when  the  songs  and  the  music  of  the  birds  began  in  the 
woods,  it  was  earlier  yet  when  Conchubar,  king  of  Ulster,  rose  up 
with  his  little  company  of  near  friends,  in  the  fresh  spring  morning 
of  the  fresh  and  pleasant  month  of  May,  and  the  dew  was  heavy  on 
every  bush  and  flower  as  they  went  out  towards  the  green  hill 
where  Deirdre  was  living. 

But  many  a  young  man  of  them  that  had  a  light,  glad,  leaping 
step  when  they  set  out,  had  but  a  tired,  slow,  failing  step  before 
the  end,  because  of  the  length  and  the  roughness  of  the  way.  'It  is 
down  there  below,'  said  the  hunter,  'in  the  house  in  that  valley, 
the  woman  is  living,  but  I  myself  will  not  go  nearer  it  than  this.' 

Conchubar  and  his  troop  went  down  then  to  the  green  hillock 
where  Deirdre  was,  and  they  knocked  at  the  door  of  the  house. 
Levarcham  called  out  that  neither  answer  nor  opening  would  be 
given  to  any  one  at  all,  and  that  she  did  not  want  disturbance  put 
on  herself  or  her  house.  'Open,'  said  Conchubar,  'in  the  name  of 
the  High  King  of  Ulster.'  When  Levarcham  heard  Conchubar's 
voice,  she  knew  there  was  no  use  trying  to  keep  Deirdre  out  of 
sight  any  longer,  and  she  rose  up  in  haste  and  let  in  the  king,  and 
as  many  of  his  people  as  could  follow  him. 

When  the  king  saw  Deirdre  before  him,  he  thought  in  himself 
that  he  never  saw  in  the  course  of  the  day,  or  in  the  dreams  of  the 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  49 

night,  a  creature  so  beautiful,  and  he  gave  her  his  full  heart's 
weight  of  love  there  and  then.  It  is  what  he  did;  he  put  Deirdre 
up  on  the  shoulders  of  his  men,  and  she  herself  and  Levarcham 
were  brought  away  to  Emain  Macha. 

With  the  love  that  Conchubar  had  for  Deirdre,  he  wanted  to 
marry  her  with  no  delay,  but  when  her  leave  was  asked,  she  would 
not  give  it,  for  she  was  young  yet,  and  she  had  no  knowledge  of  the 
duties  of  a  wife,  or  the  ways  of  a  king's  house.  And  when  Conchu- 
bar was  pressing  her  hard,  she  asked  him  to  give  her  a  delay  of  a 
year  and  a  day.  He  said  he  would  give  her  that,  though  it  was  hard 
for  him,  if  she  would  give  him  her  certain  promise  to  marry  him  at 
the  year's  end.  She  did  that,  and  Conchubar  got  a  woman  teacher 
for  her,  and  nice,  fine,  pleasant,  modest  maidens  to  be  with  her 
at  her  lying  down  and  at  her  rising  up,  to  be  companions  to  her. 
And  Deirdre  grew  wise  in  the  works  of  a  young  girl,  and  in  the 
understanding  of  a  woman;  and  if  any  one  at  all  looked  at  her 
face,  whatever  colour  she  was  before  that,  she  would  blush  crim- 
son red.  And  it  is  what  Conchubar  thought,  that  he  never  saw  with 
the  eyes  of  his  body  a  creature  that  pleased  him  so  well. 

One  day  Deirdre  and  her  companions  were  out  on  a  hill  near 
Emain  Macha,  looking  around  them  in  the  pleasant  sunshine,  and 
they  saw  three  men  walking  together.  Deirdre  was  looking  at  the 
men  and  wondering  at  them,  and  when  they  came  near,  she  remem- 
bered the  talk  of  the  hunter,  and  the  three  men  she  saw  in  her 
dream,  and  she  thought  to  herself  that  these  were  the  three  sons  of 
Usnach,  and  that  this  was  Naoise,  that  had  his  head  and  shoulders 
above  all  the  men  of  Ireland.  The  three  brothers  went  by  without 
turning  their  eyes  at  all  upon  the  young  girls  on  the  hillside,  and 
they  were  singing  as  they  went,  and  whoever  heard  the  low  sing- 
ing of  the  sons  of  Usnach,  it  was  enchantment  and  music  to  them, 
and  every  cow  that  was  being  milked  and  heard  it,  gave  two- 
thirds  more  of  milk.  And  it  is  what  happened,  that  love  for  Naoise 
came  into  the  heart  of  Deirdre,  so  that  she  could  not  but  follow  him. 
She  gathered  up  her  skirt  and  went  after  the  three  men  that  had 
gone  past  the  foot  of  the  hill,  leaving  her  companions  there  after 
her. 

But  Ainnle  and  Ardan  had  heard  talk  of  the  young  girl  that  was 
at  Conchubar's  Court,  and  it  is  what  they  thought,  that  if  Naoise 
their  brother  would  see  her,  it  is  for  himself  he  would  have  her,  for 
she  was  not  yet  married  to  the  king.  So  when  they  saw  Deirdre 


50  LADY   GREGORY 

coming  after  them,  they  said  to  one  another  to  hasten  their  steps, 
for  they  had  a  long  road  to  travel,  and  the  dusk  of  night  coming  on. 
They  did  so,  and  Deirdre  saw  it,  and  she  cried  out  after  them, 
'Naoise,  son  of  Usnach,  are  you  going  to  leave  me?'  'What  cry 
was  that  came  to  my  ears,  that  it  is  not  well  for  me  to  answer, 
and  not  easy  for  me  to  refuse?'  said  Naoise.  It  was  nothing  but  the 
cry  of  Conchubar's  wild  ducks,'  said  his  brothers;  'but  let  us  quicken 
our  steps  and  hasten  our  feet,  for  we  have  a  long  road  to  travel, 
and  the  dusk  of  the  evening  coming  on.'  They  did  so,  and  they  were 
widening  the  distance  between  themselves  and  her.  Then  Deirdre 
cried,  'Naoise!  Naoise!  son  of  Usnach,  are  you  going  to  leave  me?' 
'What  cry  was  it  that  came  to  my  ears  and  struck  my  heart,  that  it 
is  not  well  for  me  to  answer,  or  easy  for  me  to  refuse?'  said  Naoise. 
'Nothing  but  the  cry  of  Conchubar's  wild  geese,'  said  his  brothers; 
'but  let  us  quicken  our  steps  and  hasten  our  feet,  the  darkness  of 
night  is  coming  on.'  They  did  so,  and  were  widening  the  distance 
between  themselves  and  her.  Then  Deirdre  cried  the  third  time, 
'Naoise!  Naoise!  Naoise!  son  of  Usnach,  are  you  going  to  leave 
me?'  'What  sharp,  clear  cry  was  that,  the  sweetest  that  ever  came 
to  my  ears,  and  the  sharpest  that  ever  struck  my  heart,  of  all  the 
cries  I  ever  heard?'  said  Naoise.  'What  is  it  but  the  scream  of  Con- 
chubar's lake  swans,'  said  his  brothers.  'That  was  the  third  cry  of 
some  person  beyond  there,'  said  Naoise,  'and  I  swear  by  my  hand  of 
valour,'  he  said,  'I  will  go  no  further  until  I  see  where  the  cry  comes 
from.'  So  Naoise  turned  back  and  met  Deirdre,  and  Deirdre  and 
Naoise  kissed  one  another  three  times,  and  she  gave  a  kiss  to  each 
of  his  brothers.  And  with  the  confusion  that  was  on  her,  a  blaze  of 
red  fire  came  upon  her,  and  her  colour  came  and  went  as  quickly  as 
the  aspen  by  the  stream.  And  it  is  what  Naoise  thought  to  him- 
self, that  he  never  saw  a  woman  so  beautiful  in  his  life;  and  he  gave 
Deirdre,  there  and  then,  the  love  that  he  never  gave  to  living 
thing,  to  vision,  or  to  creature,  but  to  herself  alone. 

Then  he  lifted  her  high  on  his  shoulder,  and  he  said  to  his 
brothers  to  hasten  their  steps;  and  they  hastened  them. 

'Harm  will  come  of  this,'  said  the  young  men.  'Although  there 
should  harm  come,'  said  Naoise,  'I  am  willing  to  be  in  disgrace  while 
I  live.  We  will  go  with  her  to  another  province,  and  there  is  not  in 
Ireland  a  king  who  will  not  give  us  a  welcome.'  So  they  called  their 
people,  and  that  night  they  set  out  with  three  times  fifty  men,  and 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  51 

three  times  fifty  women,  and  three  times  fifty  greyhounds,  and 
Deirdre  in  their  midst. 

They  were  a  long  time  after  that  shifting  from  one  place  to  an- 
other all  around  Ireland,  from  Essruadh  in  the  south,  to  Beinn  Etair 
in  the  east  again,  and  it  is  often  they  were  in  danger  of  being  de- 
stroyed by  Conchubar's  devices.  And  one  time  the  Druids  raised  a 
wood  before  them,  but  Naoise  and  his  brothers  cut  their  way 
through  it.  But  at  last  they  got  out  of  Ulster  and  sailed  to  the  coun- 
try of  Alban,  and  settled  in  a  lonely  place;  and  when  hunting  on 
the  mountains  failed  them,  they  fell  upon  the  cattle  of  the  men  of 
Alban,  so  that  these  gathered  together  to  make  an  end  of  them. 
But  the  sons  of  Usnach  called  to  the  king  of  Scotland,  and  he  took 
them  into  his  friendship,  and  they  gave  him  their  help  when  he 
went  out  into  battles  or  to  war. 

But  all  this  time  they  had  never  spoken  to  the  king  of  Deirdre, 
and  they  kept  her  with  themselves,  not  to  let  any  one  see  her,  for 
they  were  afraid  they  might  get  their  death  on  account  of  her,  she 
being  so  beautiful. 

But  it  chanced  very  early  one  morning,  the  king's  steward  came  to 
visit  them,  and  he  found  his  way  into  the  house  where  Naoise  and 
Deirdre  were,  and  there  he  saw  them  asleep  beside  one  another.  He 
went  back  then  to  the  king,  and  he  said:  'Up  to  this  time  there  has 
never  been  found  a  woman  that  would  be  a  fitting  wife  for  you;  but 
there  is  a  woman  on  the  shore  of  Loch  Ness  now,  is  well  worthy  of 
you,  king  of  the  East.  And  what  you  have  to  do  is  to  make  an  end  of 
Naoise,  for  it  is  of  his  wife  I  am  speaking.'  'I  will  not  do  that,' 
said  the  king;  'but  go  to  her,'  he  said,  'and  bid  her  to  come  and  see 
me  secretly.'  The  steward  brought  her  that  message,  but  Deirdre 
sent  him  away,  and  all  that  he  had  said  to  her,  she  told  it  to  Naoise 
afterwards.  Then  when  she  would  not  come  to  him,  the  king  sent 
the  sons  of  Usnach  into  every  hard  fight,  hoping  they  would  get 
their  death,  but  they  won  every  battle,  and  came  back  safe  again. 
And  after  a  while  they  went  to  Loch  Eitche,  near  the  sea,  and  they 
were  left  to  themselves  there  for  a  while  in  peace  and  quietness.  And 
they  settled  and  made  a  dwelling  house  for  themselves  by  the  side 
of  Loch  Ness,  and  they  could  kill  the  salmon  of  the  stream  from  out 
their  own  door,  and  the  deer  of  the  grey  hills  from  out  their  win- 
dow. But  when  Naoise  went  to  the  court  of  the  king,  his  clothes 
were  splendid  among  the  great  men  of  the  army  of  Scotland,  a 


52  LADY   GREGORY 

cloak  of  bright  purple,  rightly  shaped,  with  a  fringe  of  bright  gold; 
a  coat  of  satin  with  fifty  hooks  of  silver;  a  brooch  on  which  were  a 
hundred  polished  gems;  a  gold-hilted  sword  in  his  hand,  two  blue- 
green  spears  of  bright  points,  a  dagger  with  the  colour  of  yellow 
gold  on  it,  and  a  hilt  of  silver.  But  the  two  children  they  had,  Gaiar 
and  Aebgreine,  they  gave  into  the  care  of  Manannan,  Son  of  the 
Sea.  And  he  cared  them  well  in  Emhain  of  the  Apple  Trees,  and  he 
brought  Bobaras  the  poet  to  give  learning  to  Gaiar.  And  Aebgreine 
of  the  Sunny  Face  he  gave  in  marriage  afterwards  to  Rinn,  son  of 
Eochaidh  Juil  of  the  Land  of  Promise. 

Now  it  happened  after  a  time  that  a  very  great  feast  was  made 
by  Conchubar,  in  Emain  Macha,  for  all  the  great  among  his  nobles, 
so  that  the  whole  company  were  easy  and  pleasant  together.  The 
musicians  stood  up  to  play  their  songs  and  to  give  poems,  and 
they  gave  out  the  branches  of  relationship  and  of  kindred.  These  are 
the  names  of  the  poets  that  were  in  Emain  at  the  time,  Cathbad,  the 
Druid,  son  of  Conall,  son  of  Rudraige;  Geanann  of  the  Bright  Face, 
son  of  Cathbad;  Ferceirtne,  and  Geanann  Black-Knee,  and  many 
others,  and  Sencha,  son  of  Ailell. 

They  were  all  drinking  and  making  merry  until  Conchubar,  the 
king,  raised  his  voice  and  spoke  aloud,  and  it  is  what  he  said:  1 
desire  to  know  from  you,  did  you  ever  see  a  better  house  than  this 
house  of  Emain,  or  a  hearth  better  than  my  hearth  in  any  place 
you  were  ever  in?'  'We  did  not,'  they  said.  Tf  that  is  so,'  said  Con- 
chubar, 'do  you  know  of  anything  at  all  that  is  wanting  to  you?'  'We 
know  of  nothing,'  said  they.  'That  is  not  so  with  me,'  said  Conchu- 
bar. T  know  of  a  great  want  that  is  on  you,  the  want  of  the  three 
best  candles  of  the  Gael,  the  three  noble  sons  of  Usnach,  that  ought 
not  to  be  away  from  us  for  the  sake  of  any  woman  in  the  world, 
Naoise,  Ainnle,  and  Ardan;  for  surely  they  are  the  sons  of  a  king, 
and  they  would  defend  the  High  Kingship  against  the  best  men  of 
Ireland.'  'If  we  had  dared,'  said  they,  'it  is  long  ago  we  would  have 
said  it,  and  more  than  that,  the  province  of  Ulster  would  be  equal 
to  any  other  province  in  Ireland,  if  there  was  no  Ulsterman  in  it  but 
those  three  alone,  for  it  is  lions  they  are  in  hardness  and  in 
bravery.'  'If  that  is  so,'  said  Conchubar,  'let  us  send  word  by  a  mes- 
senger to  Alban,  and  to  the  dwelling-place  of  the  sons  of  Usnach, 
to  ask  them  back  again.'  'Who  will  go  there  with  the  message?' 
said  they  all.  'I  cannot  know  that,'  said  Conchubar,  'for  there  is 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  53 

geasa,  that  is  bonds,  on  Naoise  not  to  come  back  with  any  man 
only  one  of  the  three,  Conall  Cearnach,  or  Fergus,  or  Cuchulain, 
and  I  will  know  now,'  said  he,  which  one  of  those  three  loves  me 
best.'  Then  he  called  Conall  to  one  side,  and  he  asked  him,  'What 
would  you  do  with  me  if  I  should  send  you  for  the  sons  of  Usnach, 
and  if  they  were  destroyed  through  me — a  thing  I  do  not  mean 
to  do?'  'As  I  am  not  going  to  undertake  it,'  said  Conall,  1  will  say 
that  it  is  not  one  alone  I  would  kill,  but  any  Ulsterman  I  would  lay 
hold  of  that  had  harmed  them  would  get  shortening  of  life  from  me 
and  the  sorrow  of  death.'  !  see  well,'  said  Conchubar,  'you  are  no 
friend  of  mine,'  and  he  put  Conall  away  from  him.  Then  he  called 
Cuchulain  to  him,  and  asked  him  the  same  as  he  did  the  other.  1 
give  my  word,  as  I  am  not  going,'  said  Cuchulain,  'if  you  want  that 
of  me,  and  that  you  think  to  kill  them  when  they  come,  it  is  not 
one  person  alone  that  would  die  for  it,  but  every  Ulsterman  I 
could  lay  hold  of  would  get  shortening  of  life  from  me  and  the  sor- 
row of  death.'  'I  see  well,'  said  Conchubar,  'that  you  are  no  friend 
of  mine.'  And  he  put  Cuchulain  from  him.  And  then  he  called 
Fergus  to  him,  and  asked  him  the  same  question,  and  Fergus  said, 
"Whatever  may  happen,  I  promise  your  blood  will  be  safe  from  me, 
but  besides  yourself  there  is  no  Ulsterman  that  would  try  to  harm 
them,  and  that  I  would  lay  hold  of,  but  I  would  give  him  shortening 
of  life  and  the  sorrow  of  death.'  T  see  well,'  said  Conchubar,  'it  is 
yourself  must  go  for  them,  and  it  is  to-morrow  you  must  set  out, 
for  it  is  with  you  they  will  come,  and  when  you  are  coming  back  to 
us  westward,  I  put  you  under  bonds  to  go  first  to  the  fort  of  Borach, 
son  of  Cainte,  and  give  me  your  word  now  that  as  soon  as  you  get 
there,  you  will  send  on  the  sons  of  Usnach  to  Emain,  whether  it 
be  day  or  night  at  the  time.'  After  that  the  two  of  them  went  in  to- 
gether, and  Fergus  told  all  the  company  how  it  was  under  his 
charge  they  were  to  be  put. 

Then  Conchubar  went  to  Borach  and  asked  had  he  a  feast  ready 
prepared  for  him.  'I  have,'  said  Borach,  'but  although  I  was  able  to 
make  it  ready,  I  was  not  able  to  bring  it  to  Emain.'  'If  that  is  so,'  said 
Conchubar,  'give  it  to  Fergus  when  he  comes  back  to  Ireland,  for  it 
is  geasa  on  him  not  to  refuse  your  feast.'  Borach  promised  he 
would  do  that,  and  so  they  wore  away  that  night. 

So  Fergus  set  out  in  the  morning,  and  he  brought  no  guard  nor 
helpers  with  him,  but  himself  and  his  two  sons,  Fair-Haired  Iollan, 
and  Rough-Red  Buinne,  and  Cuillean,  the  shield-bearer,  and  the 


54  LADY   GREGORY 

shield  itself.  They  went  on  till  they  got  to  the  dwelling-place  of 
the  sons  of  Usnach,  and  to  Loch  Eitche  in  Alba.  It  is  how  the  sons 
of  Usnach  lived;  they  had  three  houses,  and  the  house  where  they 
made  ready  the  food,  it  is  not  there  they  would  eat  it,  and  the 
house  where  they  would  eat  it,  it  is  not  there  they  would  sleep. 

When  Fergus  came  to  the  harbour  he  let  a  great  shout  out  of 
him.  And  it  is  how  Naoise  and  Deirdre  were,  they  had  a  chessboard 
between  them,  and  they  playing  on  it.  Naoise  heard  the  shout,  and 
he  said,  'That  is  the  shout  of  a  man  of  Ireland.'  It  is  not,  but  the  cry 
of  a  man  of  Alban,'  said  Deirdre.  She  knew  at  the  first  it  was  Fergus 
gave  the  shout,  but  she  denied  it.  Then  Fergus  let  another  shout  out 
of  him.  'That  is  an  Irish  shout,'  said  Naoise  again.  It  is  not,  indeed,' 
said  Deirdre,  'let  us  go  on  playing.'  Then  Fergus  gave  the  third 
shout,  and  the  sons  of  Usnach  knew  this  time  it  was  the  shout  of 
Fergus,  and  Naoise  said  to  Ardan  to  go  out  and  meet  him.  Then 
Deirdre  told  him  that  she  herself  knew  at  the  first  shout  that  it  was 
Fergus.  'Why  did  you  deny  it,  then,  Queen?'  said  Naoise.  'Because  of 
a  vision  I  saw  last  night,'  said  Deirdre.  'Three  birds  I  saw  coming  to 
us  from  Emain  Macha,  and  three  drops  of  honey  in  their  mouths, 
and  they  left  them  with  us,  and  three  drops  of  our  blood  they  brought 
away  with  them.'  'What  meaning  do  you  put  on  that,  Queen?'  said 
Naoise.  It  is,'  said  Deirdre,  'Fergus  that  is  coming  to  us  with  a  mes- 
sage of  peace  from  Conchubar,  for  honey  is  not  sweeter  than  a 
message  of  peace  sent  by  a  lying  man.'  'Let  that  pass,'  said  Naoise. 
'Is  there  anything  in  it  but  troubled  sleep  and  the  melancholy  of 
woman?  And  it  is  a  long  time  Fergus  is  in  the  harbour.  Rise  up, 
Ardan,  to  be  before  him,  and  bring  him  with  you  here.'  And 
Ardan  went  down  to  meet  him,  and  gave  a  fond  kiss  to  himself 
and  to  his  two  sons.  And  it  is  what  he  said:  'My  love  to  you,  dear 
comrades.'  After  that  he  asked  news  of  Ireland,  and  they  gave  it  to 
him,  and  then  they  came  to  where  Naoise  and  Ainnle  and  Deirdre 
were,  and  they  kissed  Fergus  and  his  two  sons,  and  they  asked 
news  of  Ireland  from  them.  'It  is  the  best  news  I  have  for  you,'  said 
Fergus,  'that  Conchubar,  king  of  Ulster,  has  sworn  by  the  earth 
beneath  him,  by  the  high  heaven  above  him,  and  by  the  sun  that 
travels  to  the  west,  that  he  will  have  no  rest  by  day  nor  sleep  by 
night,  if  the  sons  of  Usnach,  his  own  foster-brothers,  will  not  come 
back  to  the  land  of  their  home  and  the  country  of  their  birth;  and 
he  has  sent  us  to  ask  you  there.'  'It  is  better  for  them  to  stop 
here,'  said  Deirdre,  'for  they  have  a  greater  sway  in  Scotland  than 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  55 

Conchubar  himself  has  in  Ireland.'  'One's  own  country  is  better 
than  any  other  thing,'  said  Fergus,  'for  no  man  can  have  any  pleas- 
ure, however  great  his  good  luck  and  his  way  of  living,  if  he  does 
not  seen  his  own  country  every  day/  'That  is  true,'  said  Naoise,  'for 
Ireland  is  dearer  to  myself  than  Alban,  though  I  would  get  more 
in  Alban  than  in  Ireland.'  'It  will  be  safe  for  you  to  come  with  me,' 
said  Fergus.  'It  will  be  safe  indeed,'  said  Naoise,  'and  we  will  go 
with  you  to  Ireland;  and  though  there  were  no  trouble  beneath 
the  sun,  but  a  man  to  be  far  from  his  own  land,  there  is  little  delight 
in  peace  and  a  long  sleep  to  a  man  that  is  an  exile.  It  is  a  pity  for 
the  man  that  is  an  exile;  it  is  little  his  honour,  it  is  great  his  grief,  for 
it  is  he  will  have  his  share  of  wandering.' 

It  was  not  with  Deirdre's  will  Naoise  said  that,  and  she  was 
greatly  against  going  with  Fergus.  And  she  said:  'I  had  a  dream 
last  night  of  the  three  sons  of  Usnach,  and  they  bound  and  put  in 
the  grave  by  Conchubar  of  the  Red  Branch.'  But  Naoise  said: 
'Lay  down  your  dream,  Deirdre,  on  the  heights  of  the  hills,  lay 
down  your  dream  on  the  sailors  of  the  sea,  lay  down  your  dream 
on  the  rough  grey  stones,  for  we  will  give  peace  and  we  will  get  it 
from  the  king  of  the  world  and  from  Conchubar.'  But  Deirdre 
spoke  again,  and  it  is  what  she  said:  'There  is  the  howling  of  dogs 
in  my  ears;  a  vision  of  the  night  is  before  my  eyes,  I  see  Fergus 
away  from  us,  I  see  Conchubar  without  mercy  in  his  dun;  I  see 
Naoise  without  strength  in  battle;  I  see  Ainnle  without  his  loud- 
sounding  shield;  I  see  Ardan  without  shield  or  breastplate,  and  the 
Hill  of  Atha  without  delight.  I  see  Conchubar  asking  for  blood;  I 
see  Fergus  caught  with  hidden  lies;  I  see  Deirdre  crying  with  tears, 
I  see  Deirdre  crying  with  tears.' 

'A  thing  that  is  unpleasing  to  me,  and  that  I  would  never  give  in 
to,'  said  Fergus,  'is  to  listen  to  the  howling  of  dogs,  and  to  the 
dreams  of  women;  and  since  Conchubar  the  High  King  has  sent  a 
message  of  friendship,  it  would  not  be  right  for  you  to  refuse  it.' 
Tt  would  not  be  right,  indeed,'  said  Naoise,  'and  we  will  go  with  you 
to-morrow.'  And  Fergus  gave  his  word,  and  he  said,  'If  all  the  men 
of  Ireland  were  against  you,  it  would  not  profit  them,  for  neither 
shield  nor  sword  or  a  helmet  itself  would  be  any  help  or  protection 
to  them  against  you,  and  I  myself  to  be  with  you.'  'That  is  true,' 
said  Naoise,  'and  we  will  go  with  you  to  Ireland.' 

They  spent  the  night  there  until  morning,  and  then  they  went 
where  the  ships  were,  and  they  went  on  the  sea,  and  a  good  many 


56  LADY   GREGORY 

of  their  people  with  them,  and  Deirdre  looked  back  on  the  land  of 
Alban,  and  it  is  what  she  said:  'My  love  to  you,  O  land  to  the  east, 
and  it  goes  ill  with  me  to  leave  you;  for  it  is  pleasant  are  your 
bays  and  your  harbours  and  your  wide  flowery  plains  and  your 
green-sided  hills;  and  little  need  was  there  for  us  to  leave  you.'  And 
she  made  this  complaint:  'Dear  to  me  is  that  land,  that  land  to  the 
east,  Alban,  with  its  wonders;  I  would  not  have  come  from  it 
hither  but  that  I  came  with  Naoise. 

'Dear  to  me,  Dun  Fiodhaigh  and  Dun  Fionn;  dear  is  the  dun 
above  them;  dear  to  me  Inis  Droignach,  dear  to  me  Dun  Suibhne. 

'O  Coill  Cuan!  Ochone!  Coill  Cuan!  where  Ainnle  used  to  come. 
My  grief!  it  was  short  I  thought  his  stay  there  with  Naoise  in  West- 
ern Alban.  Glen  Laoi,  O  Glen  Laoi,  where  I  used  to  sleep  under 
soft  coverings;  fish  and  venison  and  badger's  flesh,  that  was  my  por- 
tion in  Glen  Laoi. 

'Glen  Masan,  my  grief!  Glen  Masan!  high  its  hart's-tongue,  bright 
its  stalks;  we  were  rocked  to  pleasant  sleep  over  the  wooded  har- 
bour of  Masan. 

'Glen  Archan,  my  grief!  Glen  Archan,  the  straight  valley  of  the 
pleasant  ridge;  never  was  there  a  young  man  more  light-hearted 
than  my  Naoise  used  to  be  in  Glen  Archan. 

'Glen  Eitche,  my  grief!  Glen  Eitche,  it  was  there  I  built  my  first 
house;  beautiful  were  the  woods  on  our  rising;  the  home  of  the 
sun  is  Glen  Eitche. 

'Glen-da-Rua,  my  grief!  Glen-da-Rua,  my  love  to  every  man  that 
belongs  to  it;  sweet  is  the  voice  of  the  cuckoo  on  the  bending 
branch  on  the  hill  above  Glen-da-Rua. 

'Dear  to  me  is  Droighin  over  the  fierce  strand,  dear  are  its  waters 
over  the  clean  sand;  I  would  never  have  come  out  from  it  at  all 
but  that  I  came  with  my  beloved!' 

After  she  had  made  that  complaint  they  came  to  Dun  Borach, 
and  Borach  gave  three  fond  kisses  to  Fergus  and  to  the  sons  of 
Usnach  along  with  him.  It  was  then  Borach  said  he  had  a  feast  laid 
out  for  Fergus,  and  that  it  was  geasa  for  him  to  leave  it  until  he 
Would  have  eaten  it.  But  Fergus  reddened  with  anger  from  head  to 
foot,  and  it  is  what  he  said:  'It  is  a  bad  thing  you  have  done,  Bo- 
rach, laying  out  a  feast  for  me,  and  Conchubar  to  have  made  me 
give  my  word  that  as  soon  as  I  would  come  to  Ireland,  whether  it 
would  be  by  day  or  in  the  night-time,  I  would  send  on  the  sons  of 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  57 

Usnach  to  Emain  Macha.'  1  hold  you  under  bonds,'  said  Borach, 
'to  stop  and  use  the  feast/ 

Then  Fergus  asked  Naoise  what  should  he  do  about  the  feast. 
'You  must  choose,'  said  Deirdre,  'whether  you  will  forsake  the  chil- 
dren of  Usnach  or  the  feast,  and  it  would  be  better  for  you  to  re- 
fuse the  feast  than  to  forsake  the  sons  of  Usnach.'  'I  will  not  for- 
sake them,'  said  he,  'for  I  will  send  my  two  sons,  Fair-Haired  Iollan 
and  Rough-Red  Buinne,  with  them,  to  Emain  Macha.'  'On  my 
word,'  said  Naoise,  'that  is  a  great  deal  to  do  for  us;  for  up  to  this 
no  other  person  ever  protected  us  but  ourselves.'  And  he  went  out 
of  the  place  in  great  anger;  and  Ainnle,  and  Ardan,  and  Deirdre, 
and  the  two  sons  of  Fergus  followed  him,  and  they  left  Fergus  dark 
and  sorrowful  after  them.  But  for  all  that,  Fergus  was  full  sure 
that  if  all  the  provinces  of  Ireland  would  go  into  one  council,  they 
would  not  consent  to  break  the  pledge  he  had  given. 

As  for  the  sons  of  Usnach,  they  went  on  their  way  by  every 
short  road,  and  Deirdre  said  to  them,  'I  will  give  you  a  good  advice, 
Sons  of  Usnach,  though  you  may  not  follow  it.'  'What  is  that  ad- 
vice, Queen?'  said  Naoise.  'It  is,'  said  she,  'to  go  to  Rechrainn,  be- 
tween Ireland  and  Scotland,  and  to  wait  there  until  Fergus  has 
done  with  the  feast;  and  that  will  be  the  keeping  of  his  word  to 
Fergus,  and  it  will  be  the  lengthening  of  your  lives  to  you.'  'We 
will  not  follow  that  advice,'  said  Naoise;  and  the  children  of  Fergus 
said  it  was  little  trust  she  had  in  them,  when  she  thought  they 
would  not  protect  her,  though  their  hands  might  not  be  so  strong 
as  the  hands  of  the  sons  of  Usnach;  and  besides  that,  Fergus  had 
given  them  his  word.  'Alas!  it  is  sorrow  came  on  us  with  the  word 
of  Fergus,'  said  Deirdre,  'and  he  to  forsake  us  for  a  feast,'  and  she 
made  this  complaint:  'It  is  grief  to  me  that  ever  I  came  from  the 
east  on  the  word  of  the  unthinking  son  of  Rogh.  It  is  only  lamenta- 
tions I  will  make.  Gch!  it  is  very  sorrowful  my  heart  is! 

'My  heart  is  heaped  up  with  sorrow;  it  is  to-night  my  great  hurt 
is.  My  grief!  my  dear  companions,  the  end  of  your  days  is  come.' 

And  it  is  what  Naoise  answered  her:  'Do  not  say  that  in  your 
haste,  Deirdre,  more  beautiful  than  the  sun.  Fergus  would  never 
have  come  for  us  eastward  to  bring  us  back  to  be  destroyed.' 

And  Deirdre  said,  'My  grief!  I  think  it  too  far  for  you,  beautiful 
sons  of  Usnach,  to  have  come  from  Alban  of  the  rough  grass;  it  is 
lasting  will  be  its  life-long  sorrow.' 


58  LADY   GREGORY 

After  that  they  went  forward  to  Finncairn  of  the  watchtower  on 
sharp-peaked  Slieve  Fuad,  and  Deirdre  stayed  after  them  in  the 
valley,  and  sleep  fell  on  her  there. 

When  Naoise  saw  that  Deirdre  was  left  after  them,  he  turned 
back  as  she  was  rising  out  of  her  sleep,  and  he  said,  'What  made 
you  wait  after  us,  Queen?'  'Sleep  that  was  on  me/  said  Deirdre; 
'and  I  saw  a  vision  in  it.'  'What  vision  was  that?'  said  Naoise.  'It 
was,'  she  said,  'Fair-Haired  Iollan  that  I  saw  without  his  head  on 
him,  and  Rough-Red  Buinne  with  his  head  on  him;  and  it  is  with- 
out help  of  Rough-Red  Buinne  you  were,  and  it  is  with  the  help 
of  Fair-Haired  Iollan  you  were.'  And  she  made  this  complaint: 

'It  is  a  sad  vision  has  been  shown  to  me,  of  my  four  tall,  fair, 
bright  companions;  the  head  of  each  has  been  taken  from  him,  and 
no  help  to  be  had  one  from  another.' 

But  when  Naoise  heard  this  he  reproached  her,  and  said,  'O  fair, 
beautiful  woman,  nothing  does  your  mouth  speak  but  evil.  Do  not 
let  the  sharpness  and  the  great  misfortune  that  come  from  it  fall  on 
your  friends.'  And  Deirdre  answered  him  with  kind,  gentle  words, 
and  it  is  what  she  said:  'It  would  be  better  to  me  to  see  harm  come 
on  any  other  person  than  upon  any  one  of  you  three,  with  whom  I 
have  travelled  over  the  seas  and  over  the  wide  plains;  but  when 
I  look  on  you,  it  is  only  Buinne  I  can  see  safe  and  whole,  and  I 
know  by  that  his  life  will  be  longest  among  you;  and  indeed  it  is  I 
that  am  sorrowful  to-night.' 

After  that  they  came  forward  to  the  high  willows,  and  it  was 
then  Deirdre  said,  'I  see  a  cloud  in  the  air,  and  it  is  a  cloud  of  blood; 
and  I  would  give  you  a  good  advice,  sons  of  Usnach,'  she  said. 
'What  is  that  advice?'  said  Naoise.  'To  go  to  Dundealgan  where  Cu- 
chulain  is,  until  Fergus  has  done  with  the  feast,  and  to  be  under  the 
protection  of  Cuchulain,  for  fear  of  the  treachery  of  Conchubar.' 
'Since  there  is  no  fear  on  us,  we  will  not  follow  that  advice,'  said 
Naoise.  And  Deirdre  complained,  and  it  is  what  she  said:  'O  Naoise, 
look  at  the  cloud  I  see  above  us  in  the  air;  I  see  a  cloud  over  green 
Macha,  cold  and  deep  red  like  blood.  I  am  startled  by  the  cloud  that 
I  see  here  in  the  air;  a  thin,  dreadful  cloud  that  is  like  a  clot  of  blood. 
I  give  a  right  advice  to  the  beautiful  sons  of  Usnach  not  to  go  to 
Emain  to-night,  because  of  the  danger  that  is  over  them. 

'We  will  go  to  Dundealgan,  where  the  Hound  of  the  Smith  is; 
we  will  come  to-morrow  from  the  south  along  with  the  Hound,  Cu- 
chulain.' 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  59 

But  Naoise  said  in  his  anger  to  Deirdre,  'Since  there  is  no  fear 
on  us,  we  will  not  follow  your  advice.'  And  Deirdre  turned  to  the 
grandsons  of  Rogh,  and  it  is  what  she  said:  It  is  seldom  until  now, 
Naoise,  that  yourself  and  myself  were  not  of  the  one  mind.  And  I 
say  to  you,  Naoise,  that  you  would  not  have  gone  against  me  like 
this,  the  day  Manannan  gave  me  the  cup  in  the  time  of  his  great 
victory.' 

After  that  they  went  on  to  Emain  Macha.  'Sons  of  Usnach,'  said 
Deirdre,  1  have  a  sign  by  which  you  will  know  if  Conchubar  is  go- 
ing to  do  treachery  on  you.'  'What  sign  is  that?'  said  Naoise.  'If  you 
are  let  come  into  the  house  where  Conchubar  is,  and  the  nobles  of 
Ulster,  then  Conchubar  is  not  going  to  do  treachery  on  you.  But  if 
it  is  in  the  House  of  the  Red  Branch  you  are  put,  then  he  is  going 
to  do  treachery  on  you.' 

After  that  they  came  to  Emain  Macha,  and  they  took  the  hand- 
wood  and  struck  the  door,  and  the  doorkeeper  asked  who  was 
there.  They  told  him  that  it  was  the  sons  of  Usnach,  and  Deirdre, 
and  the  two  sons  of  Fergus  were  there. 

When  Conchubar  heard  that,  he  called  his  stewards  and  serving 
men  to  him,  and  he  asked  them  how  was  the  House  of  the  Red 
Branch  for  food  and  for  drink.  They  said  that  if  all  the  seven  ar- 
mies of  Ulster  would  come  there,  they  would  find  what  would  sat- 
isfy them.  'If  that  is  so,'  said  Conchubar,  'bring  the  sons  of  Usnach 
into  it.' 

It  was  then  Deirdre  said,  'It  would  have  been  better  for  you  to 
follow  my  advice,  and  never  to  have  come  to  Emain,  and  it  would 
be  right  for  you  to  leave  it,  even  at  this  time.'  'We  will  not,'  said 
Fair-Haired  Iollan,  'for  it  is  not  fear  or  cowardliness  was  ever  seen 
on  us,  but  we  will  go  to  the  house.'  So  they  went  on  to  the  House 
of  the  Red  Branch,  and  the  stewards  and  the  serving-men  with 
them,  and  well-tasting  food  was  served  to  them,  and  pleasant 
drinks,  till  they  were  all  glad  and  merry,  except  only  Deirdre  and 
the  sons  of  Usnach;  for  they  did  not  use  much  food  or  drink,  be- 
cause of  the  length  and  the  greatness  of  their  journey  from  Dun 
Borach  to  Emain  Macha.  Then  Naoise  said,  'Give  the  chessboard 
to  us  till  we  go  playing.'  So  they  gave  them  the  chessboard  and 
they  began  to  play. 

It  was  just  at  that  time  Conchubar  was  asking,  'Who  will  I  send 
that  will  bring  me  word  of  Deirdre,  and  that  will  tell  me  if  she  has 
the  same  appearance  and  the  same  shape  she  had  before,  for  if  she 


60  LADY   GREGORY 

has,  there  is  not  a  woman  in  the  world  has  a  more  beautiful  shape 
or  appearance  than  she  has,  and  I  will  bring  her  out  with  edge 
of  blade  and  point  of  sword  in  spite  of  the  sons  of  Usnach,  good 
though  they  be.  But  if  not,  let  Naoise  have  her  for  himself.'  1  my- 
self will  go  there,'  said  Levarcham,  'and  I  will  bring  you  word  of 
that.'  And  it  is  how  it  was,  Deirdre  was  dearer  to  her  than  any 
other  person  in  the  world;  for  it  was  often  she  went  through  the 
world  looking  for  Deirdre  and  bringing  news  to  her  and  from  her. 
So  Levarcham  went  over  to  the  House  of  the  Red  Branch,  and 
near  it  she  saw  a  great  troop  of  armed  men,  and  she  spoke  to 
them,  but  they  made  her  no  answer,  and  she  knew  by  that  it  was 
none  of  the  men  of  Ulster  were  in  it,  but  men  from  some  strange 
country  that  Conchubar's  messengers  had  brought  to  Emain. 

And  then  she  went  in  where  Naoise  and  Deirdre  were,  and  it  is 
how  she  found  them,  the  polished  chessboard  between  them,  and 
they  playing  on  it;  and  she  gave  them  fond  kisses,  and  she  said: 
'You  are  not  doing  well  to  be  playing;  and  it  is  to  bring  Conchubar 
word  if  Deirdre  has  the  same  shape  and  appearance  she  used  to 
have  that  he  sent  me  here  now;  and  there  is  grief  on  me  for  the 
deed  that  will  be  done  in  Emain  to-night,  treachery  that  will  be 
done,  and  the  killing  of  kindred,  and  the  three  bright  candles  of  the 
Gael  to  be  quenched,  and  Emain  will  not  be  the  better  of  it  to  the 
end  of  life  and  time,'  and  she  made  this  complaint  sadly  and  wear- 
fly: 

'My  heart  is  heavy  for  the  treachery  that  is  being  done  in  Emain 
this  night;  on  account  of  this  treachery,  Emain  will  never  be  at 
peace  from  this  out. 

'The  three  that  are  most  king-like  to-day  under  the  sun;  the  three 
best  of  all  that  live  on  the  earth,  it  is  grief  to  me  to-night  they  to 
die  for  the  sake  of  any  woman.  Naoise  and  Ainnle  whose  deeds  are 
known,  and  Ardan,  their  brother;  treachery  is  to  be  done  on  the 
young,  bright-faced  three;  it  is  not  I  that  am  not  sorrowful  to- 
night/ 

When  she  had  made  this  complaint,  Levarcham  said  to  the  sons 
of  Usnach  and  to  the  children  of  Fergus  to  shut  close  the  doors  and 
the  windows  of  the  house  and  to  do  bravery.  'And  oh,  sons  of  Fer- 
gus,' she  said,  'defend  your  charge  and  your  care  bravely  till  Fer- 
gus comes,  and  you  will  have  praise  and  a  blessing  for  it.'  And  she 
cried  with  many  tears,  and  she  went  back  to  where  Conchubar 
was,  and  he  asked  news  of  Deirdre  of  her.  And  Levarcham  said,  'It 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  61 

is  good  news  and  bad  news  I  have  for  you/  'What  news  is  that?' 
said  Conchubar.  It  is  the  good  news,'  she  said,  'the  three  sons  of 
Usnach  to  have  come  to  you  and  to  be  over  there,  and  they  are 
the  three  that  are  bravest  and  mightiest  in  form  and  in  looks  and 
in  countenance,  of  all  in  the  world;  and  Ireland  will  be  yours  from 
this  out,  since  the  sons  of  Usnach  are  with  you;  and  the  news  that 
is  worst  with  me  is,  the  woman  that  was  best  of  the  women  of  the 
world  in  form  and  in  looks,  going  out  of  Emain,  is  without  the 
form  and  without  the  appearance  she  used  to  have.' 

When  Conchubar  heard  that,  much  of  his  jealousy  went  back- 
ward, and  he  was  drinking  and  making  merry  for  a  while,  until  he 
thought  on  Deirdre  again  the  second  time,  and  on  that  he  asked, 
'Who  will  I  get  to  bring  me  word  of  Deirdre?'  But  he  did  not  find 
any  one  would  go  there.  And  then  he  said  to  Gelban,  the  merry, 
pleasant  son  of  the  king  of  Lochlann:  'Go  over  and  bring  me  word 
if  Deirdre  has  the  same  shape  and  the  same  appearance  she  used 
to  have,  for  if  she  has,  there  is  not  on  the  ridge  of  the  world  or  on 
the  waves  of  the  earth,  a  woman  more  beautiful  than  herself.' 

So  Gelban  went  to  the  House  of  the  Red  Branch,  and  he  found 
the  doors  and  the  windows  of  the  fort  shut,  and  fear  came  on  him. 
And  it  is  what  he  said:  'It  is  not  an  easy  road  for  any  one  that  would 
get  to  the  sons  of  Usnach,  for  I  think  there  is  very  great  anger  on 
them.'  And  after  that  he  found  a  window  that  was  left  open  by  for- 
getfulness  in  the  house,  and  he  was  looking  in.  Then  Deirdre  saw 
him  through  the  window,  and  when  she  saw  him  looking  at  her, 
she  went  into  a  red  blaze  of  blushes,  and  Naoise  knew  that  some 
one  was  looking  at  her  from  the  window,  and  she  told  him  that 
she  saw  a  young  man  looking  in  at  them.  It  is  how  Naoise  was  at 
that  time,  with  a  man  of  the  chessmen  in  his  hand,  and  he  made  a 
fair  throw  over  his  shoulder  at  the  young  man,  that  put  the  eye  out 
of  his  head.  The  young  man  went  back  to  where  Conchubar  was. 
'You  were  merry  and  pleasant  going  out,'  said  Conchubar,  'but  you 
are  sad  and  cheerless  coming  back.'  And  then  Gelban  told  him  the 
story  from  beginning  to  end.  'I  see  well,'  said  Conchubar,  'the  man 
that  made  that  throw  will  be  king  of  the  world,  unless  he  has  his 
life  shortened.  And  what  appearance  is  there  on  Deirdre?'  he  said. 
'It  is  this,'  said  Gelban,  'although  Naoise  put  out  my  eye,  I  would 
have  wished  to  stay  there  looking  at  her  with  the  other  eye,  but 
for  the  haste  you  put  on  me;  for  there  is  not  in  the  world  a  woman 
is  better  of  shape  or  of  form  than  herself.' 


62  LADY   GREGORY 

When  Conchubar  heard  that,  he  was  filled  with  jealousy  and 
with  envy,  and  he  bade  the  men  of  his  army  that  were  with  him, 
and  that  had  been  drinking  at  the  feast,  to  go  and  attack  the  place 
where  the  sons  of  Usnach  were.  So  they  went  forward  to  the 
House  of  the  Red  Branch,  and  they  gave  three  great  shouts  around 
it,  and  they  put  fires  and  red  flames  to  it.  When  the  sons  of  Usnach 
heard  the  shouts,  they  asked  who  those  men  were  that  were  about 
the  house.  'Conchubar  and  the  men  of  Ulster,'  they  all  said  to- 
gether. Is  it  the  pledge  of  Fergus  you  would  break?'  said  Fair- 
Haired  Iollan.  'On  my  word,'  said  Conchubar,  'there  will  be  sorrow 
on  the  sons  of  Usnach,  Deirdre  to  be  with  them.'  'That  is  true,' 
said  Deirdre,  'Fergus  had  deceived  you.'  'By  my  oath,'  said  Rough- 
Red  Buinne,  'if  he  betrayed,  we  will  not  betray.'  It  was  then 
Buinne  went  out  and  killed  three-fifths  of  the  fighting  men  outside, 
and  put  great  disturbance  on  the  rest;  and  Conchubar  asked  who 
was  there,  and  who  was  doing  destruction  on  his  men  like  that.  'It 
is  I,  myself,  Rough-Red  Buinne,  son  of  Fergus,'  said  he.  'I  will  give 
you  a  good  gift  if  you  will  leave  off,'  said  Conchubar.  'What  gift 
is  that?'  said  Rough-Red  Buinne.  'A  hundred  of  land,'  said  Conchu- 
bar. 'What  besides?'  said  Rough-Red  Buinne.  'My  own  friendship 
and  my  counsel,'  said  Conchubar.  'I  will  take  that,'  said  Rough-Red 
Buinne.  It  was  a  good  mountain  that  was  given  him  as  a  reward, 
but  it  turned  barren  in  the  same  night,  and  no  green  grew  on  it 
again  for  ever,  and  it  used  to  be  called  the  Mountain  of  the  Share 
of  Buinne. 

Deirdre  heard  what  they  were  saying.  'By  my  word,'  she  said, 
'Rough-Red  Buinne  has  forsaken  you,  and  in  my  opinion,  it  is  like 
the  father  the  son  is.'  'I  give  my  word,'  says  Fair-Haired  Iollan, 
'that  is  not  so  with  me;  as  long  as  this  narrow,  straight  sword  stays 
in  my  hand,  I  will  not  forsake  the  sons  of  Usnach.' 

After  that,  Fair-Haired  Iollan  went  out,  and  made  three  courses 
around  the  house,  and  killed  three-fifths  of  the  heroes  outside,  and 
he  came  in  again  where  Naoise  was,  and  he  playing  chess,  and 
Ainnle  with  him.  So  Iollan  went  out  the  second  time,  and  made 
three  other  courses  round  the  fort,  and  he  brought  a  lighted  torch 
with  him  on  the  lawn,  and  he  went  destroying  the  hosts,  so  that 
they  dared  not  come  to  attack  the  house.  And  he  was  a  good  son, 
Fair-Haired  Iollan,  for  he  never  refused  any  person  on  the  ridge 
of  the  world  anything  that  he  had,  and  he  never  took  wages  from 
any  person  but  only  Fergus. 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  63 

It  was  then  Conchubar  said:  'What  place  is  my  own  son,  Fiacra 
the  Fair?'  1  am  here,  High  Prince,'  said  Fiacra.  'By  my  word,'  said 
Conchubar,  'it  is  on  the  one  night  yourself  and  Iollan  were  born, 
and  as  it  is  the  arms  of  his  father  he  has  with  him,  let  you  take  my 
arms  with  you,  that  is,  my  shield,  the  Ochain,  my  two  spears,  and 
my  great  sword,  the  Gorm  Glas,  the  Blue  Green — and  do  bravery 
and  great  deeds  with  them.' 

Then  Fiacra  took  Conchubar's  arms,  and  he  and  Fair-Haired  Iol- 
lan attacked  one  another,  and  they  made  a  stout  fight,  one  against 
the  other.  But  however  it  was,  Fair-Haired  Iollan  put  down  Fiacra, 
so  that  he  made  him  lie  under  the  shelter  of  his  shield,  till  it  roared 
for  the  greatness  of  the  strait  he  was  in;  for  it  was  the  way  with 
the  Ochain,  the  shield  of  Conchubar,  to  roar  when  the  person  on 
whom  it  would  be  was  in  danger;  and  the  three  chief  waves  of  Ire- 
land, the  Wave  of  Tuagh,  the  Wave  of  Cliodna,  and  the  Wave  of 
Rudraige,  roared  in  answer  to  it. 

It  was  at  that  time  Conall  Cearnach  was  at  Dun  Sobairce,  and 
he  heard  the  Wave  of  Tuagh.  'True  it  is,'  said  Conall,  'Conchubar 
is  in  some  danger,  and  it  is  not  right  for  me  to  be  here  listening  to 
him.' 

Conall  rose  up  on  that,  and  he  put  his  arms  and  his  armour  on 
him,  and  came  forward  to  where  Conchubar  was  at  Emain  Macha, 
and  he  found  the  fight  going  on  on  the  lawn,  and  Fiacra,  the  son  of 
Conchubar,  greatly  pressed  by  Fair-Haired  Iollan,  and  neither  the 
king  of  Ulster  nor  any  other  person  dared  to  go  between  them. 
But  Conall  went  aside,  behind  Fair-Haired  Iollan,  and  thrust  his 
sword  through  him.  'Who  is  it  has  wounded  me  behind  my  back?' 
said  Fair-Haired  Iollan.  'Whoever  did  it,  by  my  hand  of  valour,  he 
would  have  got  a  fair  fight,  face  to  face,  from  myself.'  'Who  are 
you  yourself?'  said  Conall.  T  am  Iollan,  son  of  Fergus,  and  are  you 
yourself  Conall?'  'It  is  I,'  said  Conall.  'It  is  evil  and  it  is  heavy  the 
work  you  have  done,'  said  Iollan,  'and  the  sons  of  Usnach  under  my 
protection.'  'Is  that  true?'  said  Conall.  'It  is  true,  indeed,'  said  Iollan. 
'By  my  hand  of  valour,'  said  Conall,  'Conchubar  will  not  get  his 
own  son  alive  from  me  to  avenge  it,'  and  he  gave  a  stroke  of  the 
sword  to  Fiacra,  so  that  he  struck  his  head  off,  and  he  left  them  so. 
The  clouds  of  death  came  upon  Fair-Haired  Iollan  then,  and  he 
threw  his  arms  towards  the  fortress,  and  called  out  to  Naoise  to  do 
bravery,  and  after  that  he  died. 

It  is  then  Conchubar  himself  came  out  and  nineteen  hundred 


64  LADY   GREGORY 

men  with  him,  and  Conall  said  to  him:  'Go  up  now  to  the  doorway 
of  the  fort,  and  see  where  your  sister's  children  are  lying  on  a  bed 
of  trouble.'  And  when  Conchubar  saw  them  he  said:  'You  are  not 
sister's  children  to  me;  it  is  not  the  deed  of  sister's  children  you 
have  done  me,  but  you  have  done  harm  to  me  with  treachery  in 
the  sight  of  all  the  men  of  Ireland.'  And  it  is  what  Ainnle  said  to 
him :  'Although  we  took  well-shaped,  soft-handed  Deirdre  from  you, 
yet  we  did  a  little  kindness  to  you  at  another  time,  and  this  is  the 
time  to  remember  it.  That  day  your  ship  was  breaking  up  on  the 
sea,  and  it  full  of  gold  and  silver,  we  gave  you  up  our  own  ship, 
and  ourselves  went  swimming  to  the  harbour.'  But  Conchubar 
said:  'If  you  did  fifty  good  deeds  to  me,  surely  this  would  be  my 
thanks;  I  would  not  give  you  peace,  and  you  in  distress,  but  every 
great  want  I  could  put  on  you.' 

And  then  Ardan  said:  'We  did  another  little  kindness  to  you,  and 
this  is  the  time  to  remember  it;  the  day  the  speckled  horse  failed 
you  on  the  green  of  Dundealgan,  it  was  we  gave  you  the  grey 
horse  that  would  bring  you  fast  on  your  road.' 

But  Conchubar  said:  'If  you  had  done  fifty  good  deeds  to  me, 
surely  this  would  be  my  thanks;  I  would  not  give  you  peace,  and 
you  in  distress,  but  every  great  want  I  could  put  on  you.' 

And  then  Naoise  said:  'We  did  you  another  good  deed,  and  this 
is  the  time  to  remember  it;  we  have  put  you  under  many  benefits; 
it  is  strong  our  right  is  to  your  protection. 

'The  time  when  Murcael,  son  of  Brian,  fought  the  seven  battles 
at  Beinn  Etair,  we  brought  you,  without  fail,  the  heads  of  the  sons 
of  the  king  of  the  South-East.' 

But  Conchubar  said:  'If  you  had  done  me  fifty  good  deeds,  surely 
this  is  my  thanks;  I  would  not  give  you  peace  in  your  distress,  but 
every  great  want  I  could  put  upon  you. 

'Your  death  is  not  a  death  to  me  now,  young  sons  of  Usnach, 
since  he  that  was  innocent  fell  by  you,  the  third  best  of  the  horse- 
men of  Ireland.' 

Then  Deirdre  said:  'Rise  up,  Naoise,  take  your  sword,  good  son 
of  a  king,  mind  yourself  well,  for  it  is  not  long  that  life  will  be  left 
in  your  fair  body.' 

It  is  then  all  Conchubar's  men  came  about  the  house,  and  they 
put  fires  and  burning  to  it.  Ardan  went  out  then,  and  his  men,  and 
put  out  the  fires  and  killed  three  hundred  men.  And  Ainnle  went 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  65 

out  in  the  third  part  of  the  night,  and  he  killed  three  hundred,  and 
did  slaughter  and  destruction  on  them. 

And  Naoise  went  out  in  the  last  quarter  of  the  night,  and  drove 
away  all  the  army  from  the  house. 

He  came  into  the  house  after  that,  and  it  is  then  Deirdre  rose 
up  and  said  to  him:  'By  my  word,  it  is  well  you  won  your  way;  and 
do  bravery  and  valour  from  this  out,  and  it  was  bad  advice  you 
took  when  you  ever  trusted   Conchubar.' 

As  for  the  sons  of  Usnach,  after  that  they  made  a  good  protec- 
tion with  their  shields,  and  they  put  Deirdre  in  the  middle  and 
linked  the  shields  around  her,  and  they  gave  three  leaps  out  over 
the  walls  of  Emain,  and  they  killed  three  hundred  men  in  that 
sally. 

When  Conchubar  saw  that,  he  went  to  Cathbad,  the  Druid,  and 
said  to  him:  'Go,  Cathbad,  to  the  sons  of  Usnach,  and  work  en- 
chantment on  them;  for  unless  they  are  hindered  they  will  destroy 
the  men  of  Ulster  for  ever  if  they  go  away  in  spite  of  them;  and  I 
give  the  word  of  a  true  hero,  they  will  get  no  harm  from  me,  but 
let  them  only  make  agreement  with  me.'  When  Cathbad  heard 
that,  he  agreed,  believing  him,  and  he  went  to  the  end  of  his  arts 
and  his  knowledge  to  hinder  the  sons  of  Usnach,  and  he  worked 
enchantment  on  them,  so  that  he  put  the  likeness  of  a  dark  sea 
about  them,  with  hindering  waves.  And  when  Naoise  saw  the 
waves  rising  he  put  up  Deirdre  on  his  shoulder,  and  it  is  how  the 
sons  of  Usnach  were,  swimming  on  the  ground  as  they  were  going 
out  of  Emain;  yet  the  men  of  Ulster  did  not  dare  to  come  near 
them  until  their  swords  had  fallen  from  their  hands.  But  after  their 
swords  fell  from  their  hands,  the  sons  of  Usnach  were  taken. 
And  when  they  were  taken,  Conchubar  asked  of  the  children  of 
Durthacht  to  kill  them.  But  the  children  of  Durthacht  said  they 
would  not  do  that.  There  was  a  young  man  with  Conchubar  whose 
name  was  Maine,  and  his  surname  Rough-Hand,  son  of  the  king  of 
the  fair  Norwegians,  and  it  is  Naoise  had  killed  his  father  and  his  two 
brothers;  Athrac  and  Triathrach  were  their  names.  And  he  said  he 
himself  would  kill  the  sons  of  Usnach.  If  that  is  so,'  said  Ardan, 
'kill  me  the  first,  for  I  am  younger  than  my  brothers,  so  that  I  will 
not  see  my  brothers  killed.'  'Let  him  not  be  killed  but  myself,'  said 
Ainnle.  'Let  that  not  be  done,'  said  Naoise,  'for  I  have  a  sword  that 
Manannan,  son  of  Lir,  gave  me,  and  the  stroke  of  it  leaves  nothing 


66  LADY   GREGORY 

after  it,  track  nor  trace;  and  strike  the  three  of  us  together,  and  we 
will  die  at  the  one  time/  'That  is  well,'  said  they  all,  'and  let  you 
lay  down  your  heads,'  they  said.  They  did  that,  and  Maine  gave  a 
strong  quick  blow  of  the  sword  on  the  three  necks  together  on  the 
block,  and  struck  the  three  heads  off  them  with  one  stroke;  and  the 
men  of  Ulster  gave  three  loud  sorrowful  shouts,  and  cried  aloud 
about  them  there. 

As  for  Deirdre,  she  cried  pitifully,  wearily,  and  tore  her  fair  hair, 
and  she  was  talking  on  the  sons  of  Usnach  and  on  Alban,  and  it  is 
what  she  said: 

'A  blessing  eastward  to  Alban  from  me;  good  is  the  sight  of  her 
bays  and  valleys,  pleasant  was  it  to  sit  on  the  slopes  of  her  hills, 
where  the  sons  of  Usnach  used  to  be  hunting. 

'One  day,  when  the  nobles  of  Scotland  were  drinking  with  the 
sons  of  Usnach,  to  whom  they  owed  their  affection,  Naoise  gave  a 
kiss  secretly  to  the  daughter  of  the  lord  of  Duntreon.  He  sent  her  a 
frightened  deer,  wild,  and  a  fawn  at  its  foot;  and  he  went  to  visit 
her  coming  home  from  the  host  of  Inverness.  When  myself  heard 
that,  my  head  filled  full  of  jealousy;  I  put  my  boat  on  the  waves, 
it  was  the  same  to  me  to  live  or  to  die.  They  followed  me  swim- 
ming, Ainnle  and  Ardan,  that  never  said  a  lie;  they  turned  me  back 
again,  two  that  would  give  battle  to  a  hundred;  Naoise  gave  me 
his  true  word,  he  swore  three  times  with  his  arms  as  witness,  he 
would  never  put  vexation  on  me  again,  until  he  would  go  from  me 
to  the  hosts  of  the  dead. 

'Och!  if  she  knew  to-night,  Naoise  to  be  under  a  covering  of 
clay,  it  is  she  would  cry  her  fill,  and  it  is  I  would  cry  along  with 
her.' 

After  she  had  made  this  complaint,  seeing  they  were  all  taken 
up  with  one  another,  Deirdre  came  forward  on  the  lawn,  and  she 
was  running  round  and  round,  up  and  down,  from  one  to  another, 
and  Cuchulain  met  her,  and  she  told  him  the  story  from  first  to  last, 
how  it  had  happened  to  the  sons  of  Usnach.  It  is  sorrowful  Cuchu- 
lain was  for  that,  for  there  was  not  in  the  world  a  man  was  dearer 
to  him  than  Naoise.  And  he  asked  who  killed  him.  'Maine  Rough- 
Hand,'  said  Deirdre.  Then  Cuchulain  went  away,  sad  and  sorrow- 
ful, to   Dundealgan. 

After  that  Deirdre  lay  down  by  the  grave,  and  they  were  digging 
earth  from  it,  and  she  made  this  lament  after  the  sons  of  Usnach: 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  67 

'Long  is  the  day  without  the  sons  of  Usnach;  it  was  never  weari- 
some to  be  in  their  company;  sons  of  a  king  that  entertained  exiles; 
three  lions  of  the  Hill  of  the  Cave. 

'Three  darlings  of  the  women  of  Britain;  three  hawks  of  Slieve 
Cuilenn;  sons  of  a  king  served  by  valour,  to  whom  warriors  did 
obedience.  The  three  mighty  bears;  three  lions  of  the  fort  of  Con- 
rach;  three  sons  of  a  king  who  thought  well  of  their  praise;  three 
nurslings  of  the  men  of  Ulster. 

'Three  heroes  not  good  at  homage;  their  fall  is  a  cause  of  sor- 
row; three  sons  of  the  sister  of  a  king;  three  props  of  the  army  of 
Cuailgne. 

'Three  dragons  of  Dun  Monad,  the  three  valiant  men  from  the 
Red  Branch;  I  myself  will  not  be  living  after  them,  the  three  that 
broke  hard  battles. 

'Three  that  were  brought  up  by  Aoife,  to  whom  lands  were  un- 
der tribute;  three  pillars  in  the  breach  of  battle;  three  pupils  that 
were  with  Scathach. 

'Three  pupils  that  were  with  Uathach;  three  champions  that 
were  lasting  in  might;  three  shining  sons  of  Usnach;  it  is  weariness 
to  be  without  them. 

'The  High  King  of  Ulster,  my  first  betrothed,  I  forsook  for  love 
of  Naoise;  short  my  life  will  be  after  him;  I  will  make  keening  at 
their  burial. 

'That  I  would  live  after  Naoise  let  no  one  think  on  the  earth;  I 
will  not  go  on  living  after  Ainnle  and  after  Ardan. 

'After  them  I  myself  will  not  live;  three  that  would  leap  through 
the  midst  of  battle;  since  my  beloved  is  gone  from  me  I  will  cry 
my  fill  over  his  grave. 

'O  young  man,  digging  the  new  grave,  do  not  make  the  grave 
narrow;  I  will  be  along  with  them  in  the  grave,  making  lamenta- 
tion and  ochones! 

'Many  the  hardship  I  met  with  along  with  the  three  heroes;  I 
suffered  want  of  house,  want  of  fire,  it  is  myself  that  used  not  to  be 
troubled. 

'Their  three  shields  and  their  spears  made  a  bed  for  me  often. 
O  young  man,  put  their  three  swords  close  over  their  grave. 

'Their  three  hounds,  their  three  hawks,  will  be  from  this  time 
without  huntsmen;  three  helpers  of  every  battle;  three  pupils  of 
Conall  Cearnach. 


68  LADY   GREGORY 

'The  three  leashes  of  those  three  hounds  have  brought  a  sigh 
from  my  heart;  it  is  I  had  the  care  of  them,  the  sight  of  them  is  a 
cause  of  grief. 

T  was  never  one  day  alone  to  the  day  of  the  making  of  this 
grave,  though  it  is  often  that  myself  and  yourselves  were  in  loneli- 
ness. 

'My  sight  is  gone  from  me  with  looking  at  the  grave  of  Naoise; 
it  is  short  till  my  life  will  leave  me,  and  those  who  would  have 
keened  me  do  not  live. 

'Since  it  is  through  me  they  were  betrayed  I  will  be  tired  out 
with  sorrow;  it  is  a  pity  I  was  not  in  the  earth  before  the  sons  of 
Usnach  were  killed. 

'Sorrowful  was  my  journey  with  Fergus,  betraying  me  to  the 
Red  Branch;  we  were  deceived  all  together  with  his  sweet,  flowery 
words.  I  left  the  delights  of  Ulster  for  the  three  heroes  that  were 
bravest;  my  life  will  not  be  long,  I  myself  am  alone  after  them. 

'I  am  Deirdre  without  gladness,  and  I  at  the  end  of  my  life;  since 
it  is  grief  to  be  without  them,  I  myself  will  not  be  long  after  them/ 

After  that  complaint  Deirdre  loosed  out  her  hair,  and  threw  her- 
self on  the  body  of  Naoise  before  it  was  put  in  the  grave  and  gave 
three  kisses  to  him,  and  when  her  mouth  touched  his  blood,  the 
colour  of  burning  sods  came  into  her  cheeks,  and  she  rose  up  like 
one  that  had  lost  her  wits,  and  she  went  on  through  the  night  till 
she  came  to  where  the  waves  were  breaking  on  the  strand.  And  a 
fisherman  was  there  and  his  wife,  and  they  brought  her  into  their 
cabin  and  sheltered  her,  and  she  neither  smiled  nor  laughed,  nor 
took  food,  drink,  or  sleep,  nor  raised  her  head  from  her  knees,  but 
crying  always  after  the  sons  of  Usnach. 

But  when  she  could  not  be  found  at  Emain,  Conchubar  sent 
Levarcham  to  look  for  her,  and  to  bring  her  back  to  his  palace, 
that  he  might  make  her  his  wife.  And  Levarcham  found  her  in  the 
fisherman's  cabin,  and  she  bade  her  come  back  to  Emain,  where 
she  would  have  protection  and  riches  and  all  that  she  would  ask. 
And  she  gave  her  this  message  she  brought  from  Conchubar: 
'Come  up  to  my  house,  O  branch  with  the  dark  eyelashes,  and 
there  need  be  no  fear  on  your  fair  face,  of  hatred  or  of  jealousy  or 
of  reproach.'  And  Deirdre  said:  'I  will  not  go  up  to  his  house,  for  it 
is  not  land  or  earth  or  food  I  am  wanting,  or  gold  or  silver  or  horses, 
but  leave  to  go  to  the  grave  where  the  sons  of  Usnach  are  lying, 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  69 

till  I  give  the  three  honey  kisses  to  their  three  white,  beautiful 
bodies.'  And  she  made  this  complaint: 

'Make  keening  for  the  heroes  that  were  killed  on  their  coming  to 
Ireland;  stately  they  used  to  be,  coming  to  the  house,  the  three 
great  sons  of  Usnach. 

'The  sons  of  Usnach  fell  in  the  fight  like  three  branches  that 
were  growing  straight  and  nice,  and  they  destroyed  in  a  heavy 
storm  that  left  neither  bud  nor  twig  of  them. 

'Naoise,  my  gentle,  well-learned  comrade,  make  no  delay  in  cry- 
ing him  with  me;  cry  for  Ardan  that  killed  the  wild  boars,  cry  for 
Ainnle  whose  strength  was  great. 

'It  was  Naoise  that  would  kiss  my  lips,  my  first  man  and  my  first 
sweetheart;  it  was  Ainnle  would  pour  out  my  drink,  and  it  was 
Ardan  would  lay  my  pillow. 

'Though  sweet  to  you  is  the  mead  that  is  drunk  by  the  soft-living 
son  of  Ness,  the  food  of  the  sons  of  Usnach  was  sweeter  to  me  all 
through  my  lifetime. 

'Whenever  Naoise  would  go  out  to  hunt  through  the  woods  or 
the  wide  plains,  all  the  meat  he  would  bring  back  was  better  to 
me  than  honey. 

'Though  sweet  to  you  are  the  sounds  of  pipes  and  of  trumpets, 
it  is  truly  I  say  to  the  king,  I  have  heard  music  that  is  sweeter. 

'Delightful  to  Conchubar,  the  king,  are  pipes  and  trumpets;  but 
the  singing  of  the  sons  of  Usnach  was  more  delightful  to  me. 

'It  was  Naoise  had  the  deep  sound  of  the  waves  in  his  voice;  it 
was  the  song  of  Ardan  that  was  good,  and  the  voice  of  Ainnle  to- 
wards their  green  dwelling-place. 

'Their  birth  was  beautiful  and  their  blossoming,  as  they  grew  to 
the  strength  of  manhood;  sad  is  the  end  to-day,  the  sons  of  Usnach 
to  be  cut  down. 

'Dear  were  their  pleasant  words,  dear  their  young,  high  strength; 
in  their  going  through  the  plains  of  Ireland  there  was  a  welcome 
before  the  coming  of  their  strength. 

'Dear  their  grey  eyes  that  were  loved  by  women,  many  looked 
on  them  as  they  went;  when  they  went  freely  searching  through 
the  woods,  their  steps  were  pleasant  on  the  dark  mountain. 

'I  do  not  sleep  at  any  time,  and  the  colour  is  gone  from  my  face; 
there  is  no  sound  can  give  me  delight  since  the  sons  of  Usnach  do 
not  come. 


70  LADY   GREGORY 

'I  do  not  sleep  through  the  night;  my  senses  are  scattered  away 
from  me,  I  do  not  care  for  food  or  drink.  I  have  no  welcome  to-day 
for  the  pleasant  drink  of  nobles,  or  ease,  or  comfort,  or  delight,  or 
a  great  house,  or  the  palace  of  a  king. 

'Do  not  break  the  strings  of  my  heart  as  you  took  hold  of  my 
young  youth,  Conchubar;  though  my  darling  is  dead,  my  love  is 
strong  to  live.  What  is  country  to  me,  or  land,  or  lordship?  What 
are  swift  horses?  What  are  jewels  and  gold?  Och!  it  is  I  will  be 
lying  to-night  on  the  strand  like  the  beautiful  sons  of  Usnach.' 

So  Levarcham  went  back  to  Conchubar  to  tell  him  what  way 
Deirdre  was,  and  that  she  would  not  come  with  her  to  Emain 
Macha. 

And  when  she  was  gone,  Deirdre  went  out  on  the  strand,  and  she 
found  a  carpenter  making  an  oar  for  a  boat,  and  making  a  mast  for 
it,  clean  and  straight,  to  put  up  a  sail  to  the  wind.  And  when  she 
saw  him  making  it,  she  said:  'It  is  a  sharp  knife  you  have,  to  cut 
the  oar  so  clean  and  so  straight,  and  if  you  will  give  it  to  me,'  she 
said,  1  will  give  you  a  ring  of  the  best  gold  in  Ireland  for  it,  the 
ring  that  belonged  to  Naoise,  and  that  was  with  him  through  the 
battle  and  through  the  fight;  he  thought  much  of  it  in  his  lifetime; 
it  is  pure  gold,  through  and  through.'  So  the  carpenter  took  the 
ring  in  his  hand,  and  the  knife  in  the  other  hand,  and  he  looked  at 
them  together,  and  he  gave  her  the  knife  for  the  ring,  and  for  her 
asking  and  her  tears.  Then  Deirdre  went  close  to  the  waves,  and 
she  said:  'Since  the  other  is  not  with  me  now,  I  will  spend  no  more 
of  my  lifetime  without  him.'  And  with  that  she  drove  the  black 
knife  into  her  side,  but  she  drew  it  out  again  and  threw  it  in  the 
sea  to  her  right  hand,  the  way  no  one  would  be  blamed  for  her 
death. 

Then  Conchubar  came  down  to  the  strand  and  five  hundred  men 
along  with  him,  to  bring  Deirdre  away  to  Emain  Macha,  but  all  he 
found  before  him  was  her  white  body  on  the  ground,  and  it  with- 
out life.  And  it  is  what  he  said: 

'A  thousand  deaths  on  the  time  I  brought  death  on  my  sister's 
children;  now  I  am  myself  without  Deirdre,  and  they  themselves 
are  without  life. 

'They  were  my  sister's  children,  the  three  brothers  I  vexed  with 
blows,  Naoise,  and  Ainnle,  and  Ardan;  they  have  died  along  with 
Deirdre.' 

And  they  took  her  white,  beautiful  body,  and  laid  it  in  a  grave, 


FATE  OF  THE  SONS  OF  USNACH  71 

and  a  flagstone  was  raised  over  her  grave,  and  over  the  grave  of 
the  sons  of  Usnach,  and  their  names  were  written  in  Ogham,1  and 
keening  was  made  for  their  burial. 

And  as  to  Fergus,  son  of  Rogh,  he  came  on  the  day  after  the 
children  of  Usnach  were  killed,  to  Emain  Macha.  And  when  he 
found  they  had  been  killed  and  his  pledge  to  them  broken,  he  him- 
self, and  Cormac  Conloingeas,  Conchubar's  own  son,  and  Dubt- 
hach,  the  Beetle  of  Ulster,  with  their  men,  made  an  attack  on  Con- 
chubar's house  and  men,  and  a  great  many  were  killed  by  them, 
and  Emain  Macha  was  burned  and  destroyed. 

And  after  doing  that,  they  went  into  Connaught,  to  Ailell  and  to 
Maeve  at  Cruachan,  and  they  were  made  welcome  there,  and  they 
took  service  with  them  and  fought  with  them  against  Ulster  be- 
cause of  the  treachery  that  was  done  by  Conchubar.  And  that  is 
the  way  Fergus  and  the  others  came  to  be  on  the  side  of  the  men 
of  Connaught  in  the  war  for  the  Brown  Bull  of  Cuailgne. 

And  Cathbad  laid  a  curse  on  Emain  Macha,  on  account  of  that 
great  wrong.  And  it  is  what  he  said,  that  none  of  the  race  of  Con- 
chubar should  have  the  kingdom,  to  the  end  of  life  and  time. 

And  that  came  true,  for  the  most  of  Conchubar's  sons  died  in 
his  own  lifetime,  and  when  he  was  near  his  death,  he  bade  the  men 
of  Ulster  bring  back  Cormac  Conloingeas  out  of  Cruachan,  and 
give  him  the  kingdom. 

So  they  sent  messengers  to  Cormac,  and  he  set  out  and  his  three 
troops  of  men  with  him,  and  he  left  his  blessing  with  Ailell  and 
with  Maeve,  and  he  promised  them  a  good  return  for  all  the  kind 
treatment  they  had  given  him.  And  they  crossed  the  river  at  Ath- 
luain,  and  there  they  saw  a  red  woman  at  the  edge  of  the  ford, 
and  she  washing  her  chariot  and  her  harness.  And  after  that  they 
met  a  young  girl  coming  towards  them,  and  a  light  green  cloak 
about  her,  and  a  brooch  of  precious  stones  at  her  breast.  And  Cor- 
mac asked  her  was  she  coming  with  them,  and  she  said  she  was 
not,  and  it  would  be  better  for  himself  to  turn  back,  for  the  ruin  of 
his  life  was  come. 

And  he  stopped  for  the  night  at  the  House  of  the  Two  Smiths  on 
the  hill  of  Bruighean  Mor,  the  great  dwelling-place. 

But  a  troop  of  the  men  of  Connaught  came  about  the  house  in 
the  night,  for  they  were  on  the  way  home  after  destroying  and 


1  An  ancient  Irish  alphabet  of  twenty  characters. 


72  LADY   GREGORY 

robbing  a  district  of  Ulster,  and  they  thought  to  make  an  end  of 
Cormac  before  he  would  get  to  Emain. 

And  it  chanced  there  was  a  great  harper,  Craiftine,  living  close 
by,  and  his  wife,  Sceanb,  daughter  of  Scethern,  a  Druid  of  Con- 
naught,  loved  Cormac  Conloingeas,  and  three  times  she  had  gone 
to  meet  him  at  Athluain,  and  she  planted  three  trees  there — Grief, 
and  Dark,  and  Dumbness. 

And  there  was  great  hatred  and  jealousy  of  Cormac  on  Craiftine, 
so  when  he  knew  the  men  of  Connaught  were  going  to  make  an 
attack  on  him,  he  went  outside  the  house  with  his  harp,  and  played 
a  soft  sleepy  tune  to  him,  the  way  he  had  not  the  strength  to  rouse 
himself  up,  and  himself  and  the  most  of  his  people  were  killed. 
And  Amergin,  that  had  gone  with  the  message  to  him,  made  his 
grave  and  his  mound,  and  the  place  is  called  Cluain  Duma,  the 
Lawn  of  the  Mound. 


JAMES     STEPHENS 

The  Two  Gods1 


V^aitilin  Ni  Murrachu  was  sitting  alone  in  the  little  cave  behind 
Gort  na  Cloca  Mora.  Her  companion  had  gone  out  as  was  his  cus- 
tom to  walk  in  the  sunny  morning  and  to  sound  his  pipe  in  deso- 
late, green  spaces  whence,  perhaps,  the  wanderer  of  his  desire 
might  hear  the  guiding  sweetness.  As  she  sat  she  was  thinking.  The 
last  few  days  had  awakened  her  body,  and  had  also  awakened  her 
mind,  for  with  the  one  awakening  comes  the  other.  The  despond- 
ency which  had  touched  her  previously  when  tending  her  father's 
cattle  came  to  her  again,  but  recognisably  now.  She  knew  the  thing 
which  the  wind  had  whispered  in  the  sloping  field  and  for  which 
she  had  no  name — it  was  Happiness.  Faintly  she  shadowed  it  forth, 
but  yet  she  could  not  see  it.  It  was  only  a  pearl-pale  wraith,  almost 
formless,  too  tenuous  to  be  touched  by  her  hands,  and  too  aloof  to 
be  spoken  to.  Pan  had  told  her  that  he  was  the  giver  of  happiness, 
but  he  had  given  her  only  unrest  and  fever  and  a  longing  which 
could  not  be  satisfied.  Again  there  was  a  want,  and  she  could  not 
formulate,  or  even  realise  it  with  any  closeness.  Her  newborn 
Thought  had  promised  everything,  even  as  Pan,  and  it  had  given — 
she  could  not  say  that  it  had  given  her  nothing  or  anything.  Its  limits 
were  too  quickly  divinable.  She  had  found  the  Tree  of  Knowledge, 
but  about  on  every  side  a  great  wall  soared  blackly  enclosing  her  in 
from  the  Tree  of  Life — a  wall  which  her  thought  was  unable  to 
surmount  even  while  instinct  urged  that  it  must  topple  before  her 
advance,  but  instinct  may  not  advance  when  thought  has  schooled 
it  in  the  science  of  unbelief;  and  this  wall  will  not  be  conquered 
until  Thought  and  Instinct  are  wed,  and  the  first  son  of  that  bridal 
will  be  called  The  Scaler  of  the  Wall. 

So,  after  the  quiet  weariness  of  ignorance,  the  unquiet  weariness 
of  thought  had  fallen  upon  her.  That  travail  of  mind  which, 
through  countless  generations,  has  throed  to  the  birth  of  an  ecstasy, 
the  prophecy  which  humanity  has  sworn  must  be  fulfilled,  seeing 
through  whatever  mists  and  doubtings  the  vision  of  a  gaiety 
wherein  the  innocence  of  the  morning  will  not  any  longer  be 
strange  to  our  maturity. 

While  she  was  so  thinking  Pan  returned,  a  little  disheartened  that 

1  From    The   Crock   of  Gold,   London,    1912. 

73 


74  JAMES    STEPHENS 

he  had  found  no  person  to  listen  to  his  pipings.  He  had  been 
seated  but  a  little  time  when  suddenly,  from  without,  a  chorus  of 
birds  burst  into  joyous  singing.  Limpid  and  liquid  cadenzas,  mellow 
flutings,  and  the  sweet  treble  of  infancy  met  and  danced  and  piped 
in  the  airy  soundings.  A  round,  soft  tenderness  of  song  rose  and 
fell,  broadened  and  soared,  and  then  the  high  flight  was  snatched, 
eddied  a  moment,  and  was  borne  away  to  a  more  slender  and  won- 
derful loftiness,  until,  from  afar,  that  thrilling  song  turned  on  the 
very  apex  of  sweetness,  dipped  steeply  and  flashed  its  joyous  return 
to  the  exultations  of  its  mates  below,  rolling  an  ecstasy  of  song 
which  for  one  moment  gladdened  the  whole  world  and  the  sad  peo- 
ple who  moved  thereon;  then  the  singing  ceased  as  suddenly  as  it 
began,  a  swift  shadow  darkened  the  passage,  and  Angus  Og  came 
into  the  cave. 

Caitilin  sprang  from  her  seat  affrighted,  and  Pan  also  made  a  Jialf 
movement  towards  rising,  but  instantly  sank  back  again  to  his  neg- 
ligent,  easy  posture. 

The  god  was  slender  and  as  swift  as  a  wind.  His  hair  swung  about 
his  face  like  golden  blossoms.  His  eyes  were  mild  and  dancing  and 
his  lips  smiled  with  quiet  sweetness.  About  his  head  there  flew  per- 
petually a  ring  of  singing  birds,  and  when  he  spoke  his  voice  came 
sweetly  from  a  centre  of  sweetness. 

'Health  to  you,  daughter  of  Murrachu,'  said  he,  and  he  sat  down. 

1  do  not  know  you,  sir,'  the  terrified  girl  whispered. 

'I  cannot  be  known  until  I  make  myself  known/  he  replied.  1 
am  called  Infinite  Joy,  O  daughter  of  Murrachu,  and  I  am  called 
Love.' 

The  girl  gazed  doubtfully  from  one  to  the  other. 

Pan  looked  up  from  his  pipes. 

'I  also  am  called  Love,'  said  he  gently,  "and  I  am  called  Joy.' 

Angus  6g  looked  for  the  first  time  at  Pan. 

'Singer  of  the  Vine,'  said  he,  1  know  your  names — they  are  Desire 
and  Fever  and  Lust  and  Death.  Why  have  you  come  from  your 
own  place  to  spy  upon  my  pastures  and  my  quiet  fields?' 

Pan  replied  mildly. 

'The  mortal  gods  move  by  the  Immortal  Will,  and,  therefore,  I 
am  here.' 

'And  I  am  here,'  said  Angus. 

'Give  me  a  sign,'  said  Pan,  'that  I  must  go.' 


THE   TWO   GODS  75 

Angus  Og  lifted  his  hand  and  from  without  there  came  again  the 
triumphant  music  of  the  birds. 

'It  is  a  sign/  said  he,  'the  voice  of  Dana  speaking  in  the  air/  and, 
saying  so,  he  made  obeisance  to  the  great  mother. 

Pan  lifted  his  hand,  and  from  afar  there  came  the  lowing  of  the 
cattle  and  the  thin  voices  of  the  goats. 

'It  is  a  sign/  said  he,  'the  voice  of  Demeter  speaking  from  the 
earth/  and  he  also  bowed  deeply  to  the  mother  of  the  world. 

Again  Angus  Og  lifted  his  hand,  and  in  it  there  appeared  a  spear, 
bright  and  very  terrible. 

But  Pan  only  said,  'Can  a  spear  divine  the  Eternal  Will?'  and 
Angus  Og  put  his  weapon  aside,  and  he  said — 

'The  girl  will  choose  between  us,  for  the  Divine  Mood  shines  in 
the  heart  of  man/ 

Then  Caitilin  Ni  Murrachu  came  forward  and  sat  between  the 
gods,  but  Pan  stretched  out  his  hand  and  drew  her  to  him,  so  that 
she  sat  resting  against  his  shoulder  and  his  arm  was  about  her 
body. 

'We  will  speak  the  truth  to  this  girl/  said  Angus  Og. 

'Can  the  gods  speak  otherwise?'  said  Pan,  and  he  laughed  with 
delight. 

'It  is  the  difference  between  us/  replied  Angus  Og.  'She  will 
judge/ 

'Shepherd  Girl/  said  Pan,  pressing  her  with  his  arm,  'you  will 
judge  between  us.  Do  you  know  what  is  the  greatest  thing  in  the 
world — because  it  is  of  that  you  will  have  to  judge/ 

'I  have  heard/  the  girl  replied,  'two  things  called  the  greatest 
things.  You/  she  continued  to  Pan,  'said  it  was  Hunger,  and  long 
ago  my  father  said  that  Commonsense  was  the  greatest  thing  in 
the  world/ 

T  have  not  told  you/  said  Angus  Og,  'what  I  consider  is  the 
greatest  thing  in  the  world/ 

'It  is  your  right  to  speak/  said  Pan. 

'The  greatest  thing  in  the  world/  said  Angus  Og,  'is  the  Divine 
Imagination.' 

'Now/  said  Pan,  'we  know  all  the  greatest  things  and  we  can 
talk  of  them/ 

'The  daughter  of  Murrachu/  continued  Angus  Og,  'has  told  us 
what  you  think  and  what  her  father  thinks,  but  she  has  not  told  us 


76  JAMES    STEPHENS 

what  she  thinks  herself.  Tell  us,  Caitilin  Ni  Murrachu,  what  you 
think  is  the  greatest  thing  in  the  world/ 

So  Caitilin  Ni  Murrachu  thought  for  a  few  moments  and  then 
replied  timidly. 

7  think  that  Happiness  is  the  greatest  thing  in  the  world/  said 
she. 

Hearing  this  they  sat  in  silence  for  a  little  time,  and  then  Angus 
Og  spoke  again — 

'The  Divine  Imagination  may  only  be  known  through  the 
thoughts  of  His  creatures.  A  man  has  said  Commonsense  and  a 
woman  has  said  Happiness  are  the  greatest  things  in  the  world. 
These  things  are  male  and  female,  for  Commonsense  is  Thought 
and  Happiness  is  Emotion,  and  until  they  embrace  in  Love  the 
will  of  Immensity  cannot  be  fruitful.  For,  behold,  there  has  been 
no  marriage  of  humanity  since  time  began.  Men  have  but  coupled 
with  their  own  shadows.  The  desire  that  sprang  from  their  heads 
they  pursued,  and  no  man  has  yet  known  the  love  of  a  woman. 
And  women  have  mated  with  the  shadows  of  their  own  hearts, 
thinking  fondly  that  the  arms  of  men  were  about  them.  I  saw  my 
son  dancing  with  an  Idea,  and  I  said  to  him,  "With  what  do  you 
dance,  my  son?"  and  he  replied,  "I  make  merry  with  the  wife  of 
my  affection,"  and  truly  she  was  shaped  as  a  woman  is  shaped,  but 
it  was  an  Idea  he  danced  with  and  not  a  woman.  And  presently  he 
went  away  to  his  labours,  and  then  his  Idea  arose  and  her  human- 
ity came  upon  her  so  that  she  was  clothed  with  beauty  and  terror, 
and  she  went  apart  and  danced  with  the  servant  of  my  son,  and 
there  was  great  joy  of  that  dancing — for  a  person  in  the  wrong 
place  is  an  Idea  and  not  a  person.  Man  is  Thought  and  woman  is 
Intuition,  and  they  have  never  mated.  There  is  a  gulf  between 
them  and  it  is  called  Fear,  and  what  they  fear  is,  that  their 
strengths  shall  be  taken  from  them  and  they  may  no  longer  be  ty- 
rants. The  Eternal  has  made  love  blind,  for  it  is  not  by  science,  but 
by  intuition  alone,  that  he  may  come  to  his  beloved:  but  desire, 
which  is  science,  has  many  eyes  and  sees  so  vastly  that  he  passes 
his  love  in  the  press,  saying  there  is  no  love,  and  he  propagates 
miserably  on  his  own  delusions.  The  finger  tips  are  guided  by  God, 
but  the  devil  looks  through  the  eyes  of  all  creatures  so  that  they 
may  wander  in  the  errors  of  reason  and  justify  themselves  of  their 
wanderings.  The  desire  of  a  man  shall  be  Beauty,  but  he  has  fash- 
ioned a  slave  in  his  mind  and  called  it  Virtue.  The  desire  of  a 


THE   TWO   GODS  77 

woman  shall  be  Wisdom,  but  she  has  formed  a  beast  in  her  blood 
and  called  it  Courage:  but  the  real  virtue  is  courage,  and  the  real 
courage  is  liberty,  and  the  real  liberty  is  wisdom,  and  Wisdom  is 
the  son  of  Thought  and  Intuition;  and  his  names  also  are  Inno- 
cence and  Adoration  and  Happiness.' 

When  Angus  6g  had  said  these  words  he  ceased,  and  for  a  time 
there  was  silence  in  the  little  cave.  Caitilin  had  covered  her  face 
with  her  hands  and  would  not  look  at  him,  but  Pan  drew  the  girl 
closer  to  his  side  and  peered  sideways,  laughing  at  Angus. 

'Has  the  time  yet  come  for  the  girl  to  judge  between  us?'  said  he. 

'Daughter  of  Murrachu,'  said  Angus  Og,  'will  you  come  away 
with  me  from  this  place?' 

Caitilin  then  looked  at  the  god  in  great  distress. 

'I  do  not  know  what  to  do,'  said  she.  'Why  do  you  both  want 
me?  I  have  given  myself  to  Pan,  and  his  arms   are  about  me.' 

'I  want  you,'  said  Angus  Og,  'because  the  world  has  forgotten 
me.  In  all  my  nation  there  is  no  remembrance  of  me.  I,  wandering 
on  the  hills  of  my  country,  am  lonely  indeed.  I  am  the  desolate 
god  forbidden  to  utter  my  happy  laughter.  I  hide  the  silver  of  my 
speech  and  the  gold  of  my  merriment.  I  live  in  the  holes  of  the 
rocks  and  the  dark  caves  of  the  sea.  I  weep  in  the  morning  because 
I  may  not  laugh,  and  in  the  evening  I  go  abroad  and  am  not  happy. 
Where  I  have  kissed  a  bird  has  flown;  where  I  have  trod  a  flower 
has  sprung.  But  Thought  has  snared  my  birds  in  his  nets  and  sold 
them  in  the  market-places.  Who  will  deliver  me  from  Thought, 
from  the  base  holiness  of  Intellect,  the  maker  of  chains  and  traps? 
Who  will  save  me  from  the  holy  impurity  of  Emotion,  whose 
daughters  are  Envy  and  Jealousy  and  Hatred,  who  plucks  my  flow- 
ers to  ornament  her  lusts  and  my  little  leaves  to  shrivel  on  the 
breasts  of  infamy?  Lo,  I  am  sealed  in  the  caves  of  nonentity  until 
the  head  and  the  heart  shall  come  together  in  fruitfulness,  until 
Thought  has  wept  for  Love,  and  Emotion  has  purified  herself  to 
meet  her  lover.  Tir-na-nOg  is  the  heart  of  a  man  and  the  head  of 
a  woman.  Widely  they  are  separated.  Self-centred  they  stand,  and 
between  them  the  seas  of  space  are  flooding  desolately.  No  voice 
can  shout  across  those  shores.  No  eye  can  bridge  them,  nor  any 
desire  bring  them  together  until  the  blind  god  shall  find  them  on 
the  wavering  stream — not  as  an  arrow  searches  straightly  from  a 
bow,  but  gently,  imperceptibly  as  a  feather  on  the  wind  reaches 
the  ground  on  a  hundred  starts;  not  with  the  compass  and  the 


78  JAMES    STEPHENS 

chart,  but  by  the  breath  of  the  Almighty  which  blows  from  all 
quarters  without  care  and  without  ceasing.  Night  and  day  it  urges 
from  the  outside  to  the  inside.  It  gathers  ever  to  the  centre.  From 
the  far  without  to  the  deep  within,  trembling  from  the  body  to  the 
soul  until  the  head  of  a  woman  and  the  heart  of  a  man  are  filled 
with  the  Divine  Imagination.  Hymen,  Hymensea!  I  sing  to  the  ears 
that  are  stopped,  the  eyes  that  are  sealed,  and  the  minds  that  do 
not  labour.  Sweetly  I  sing  on  the  hillside.  The  blind  shall  look 
within  and  not  without;  the  deaf  shall  hearken  to  the  murmur  of 
their  own  veins,  and  be  enchanted  with  the  wisdom  of  sweetness; 
the  thoughtless  shall  think  without  effort  as  the  lightning  flashes, 
that  the  hand  of  Innocence  may  reach  to  the  stars,  that  the  feet  of 
Adoration  may  dance  to  the  Father  of  Joy,  and  the  laugh  of  Hap- 
piness be  answered  by  the  Voice  of  Benediction/ 

Thus  Angus  6g  sang  in  the  cave,  and  ere  he  had  ceased  Caitilin 
Ni  Murrachu  withdrew  herself  from  the  arms  of  her  desires.  But  so 
strong  was  the  hold  of  Pan  upon  her  that  when  she  was  free  her 
body  bore  the  marks  of  his  grip,  and  many  days  passed  away  be- 
fore these  marks  faded. 

Then  Pan  arose  in  silence,  taking  his  double  reed  in  his  hand, 
and  the  girl  wept,  beseeching  him  to  stay  to  be  her  brother  and 
the  brother  of  her  beloved,  but  Pan  smiled  and  said — 

'Your  beloved  is  my  father  and  my  son.  He  is  yesterday  and  to- 
morrow. He  is  the  nether  and  the  upper  millstone,  and  I  am 
crushed  between  until  I  kneel  again  before  the  throne  from 
whence  I  came,'  and,  saying  so,  he  embraced  Angus  6g  most  ten- 
derly and  went  his  way  to  the  quiet  fields,  and  across  the  slopes  of 
the  mountains,  and  beyond  the  blue  distances  of  space. 

And  in  a  little  time  Caitilin  Ni  Murrachu  went  with  her  compan- 
ion across  the  brow  of  the  hill,  and  she  did  not  go  with  him  be- 
cause she  had  understood  his  words,  nor  because  he  was  naked  and 
unashamed,  but  only  because  his  need  of  her  was  very  great,  and, 
therefore,  she  loved  him,  and  stayed  his  feet  in  the  way,  and  was 
concerned  lest  he  should  stumble. 


DOUGLAS     HYDE 


The  Necessity  for  De- Anglicising 
Ireland1 


When  we  speak  of  "The  Necessity  for  De-Anglicising  the  Irish 
Nation,"  we  mean  it,  not  as  a  protest  against  imitating  what  is 
best  in  the  English  people,  for  that  would  be  absurd,  but  rather 
_to  show  the  folly  of  neglecting  what  is  Irish,  and  hastening  to 
adopt,  pell-mell,  and  indiscriminately,  everything  that  is  English, 
simply  because  it  is  English. 

This  is  a  question  which  most  Irishmen  will  naturally  look  at 
from  a  National  point  of  view,  but  it  is  one  which  ought  also  to 
claim  the  sympathies  of  every  intelligent  Unionist,  and  which,  as  I 
know,  does  claim  the  sympathy  of  many. 

If  we  take  a  bird's-eye  view  of  our  island  to-day,  and  compare  it 
with  what  it  used  to  be,  we  must  be  struck  by  the  extraordinary 
fact  that  the  nation  which  was  once,  as  every  one  admits,  one  of 
the  most  classically  learned  and  cultured  nations  in  Europe,  is  now 
one  of  the  least  so;  how  one  of  the  most  reading  and  literary  peo- 
ples has  become  one  of  the  least  studious  and  most  wn-literary,  and 
how  the  present  art  products  of  one  of  the  quickest,  most  sensitive, 
and  most  artistic  races  on  earth  are  now  only  distinguished  for 
their  hideousness. 

I  shall  endeavour  to  show  that  this  failure  of  the  Irish  people  in 
recent  times  has  been  largely  brought  about  by  the  race  diverging 
during  this  century  from  the  right  path,  and  ceasing  to  be  Irish 
without  becoming  English.  I  shall  attempt  to  show  that  with  the 
bulk  of  the  people  this  change  took  place  quite  recently,  much 
more  recently  than  most  people  imagine,  and  is,  in  fact,  still  going 
on.  I  should  also  like  to  call  attention  to  the  illogical  position  of 
men  who  drop  their  own  language  to  speak  English,  of  men  who 
translate  their  euphonious  Irish  names  into  English  monosyllables, 
of  men  who  read  English  books,  and  know  nothing  about  Gaelic 
literature,  nevertheless  protesting  as  a  matter  of  sentiment  that 
they  hate  the  country  which  at  every  hand's  turn  they  rush  to  imi- 
tate. 


1  Delivered  before  the  Irish  National  Literary  Society  in  Dublin,  November  25,  1892. 

79 


80  DOUGLAS   HYDE 

I  wish  to  show  you  that  in  Anglicising  ourselves  wholesale  we 
have  thrown  away  with  a  light  heart  the  best  claim  which  we  have 
upon  the  world's  recognition  of  us  as  a  separate  nationality.  What 
did  Mazzini  say?  What  is  Goldwin  Smith  never  tired  of  declaiming? 
What  do  the  Spectator  and  Saturday  Review  harp  on?  That  we 
ought  to  be  content  as  an  integral  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  be- 
cause we  have  lost  the  notes  of  nationality,  our  language  and  cus- 
toms. 

It  has  always  been  very  curious  to  me  how  Irish  sentiment  sticks 
in  this  half-way  house — how  it  continues  to  apparently  hate  the 
English,  and  at  the  same  time  continues  to  imitate  them;  how  it 
continues  to  clamour  for  recognition  as  a  distinct  nationality,  and 
at  the  same  time  throws  away  with  both  hands  what  would  make 
it  so.  If  Irishmen  only  went  a  little  farther  they  would  become 
good  Englishmen  in  sentiment  also.  But — illogical  as  it  appears — 
there  seems  not  the  slightest  sign  or  probability  of  their  taking  that 
step.  It  is  the  curious  certainty  that  come  what  may  Irishmen  will 
continue  to  resist  English  rule,  even  though  it  should  be  for  their 
good,  which  prevents  many  of  our  nation  from  becoming  Unionists 
upon  the  spot.  It  is  a  fact,  and  we  must  face  it  as  a  fact,  that  al- 
though they  adopt  English  habits  and  copy  England  in  every  way, 
the  great  bulk  of  Irishmen  and  Irishwomen  over  the  whole  world 
are  known  to  be  filled  with  a  dull,  ever-abiding  animosity  against 
her,  and — right  or  wrong — to  grieve  when  she  prospers,  and  joy 
when  she  is  hurt.  Such  movements  as  Young  Irelandism,  Fenian- 
ism,  Land  Leagueism,  and  Parliamentary  obstruction  seem  always 
to  gain  their  sympathy  and  support.  It  is  just  because  there  ap- 
pears no  earthly  chance  of  their  becoming  good  members  of  the 
Empire  that  I  urge  that  they  should  not  remain  in  the  anomalous 
position  they  are  in,  but  since  they  absolutely  refuse  to  become  the 
one  thing,  that  they  become  the  other;  cultivate  what  they  have 
rejected,  and  build  up  an  Irish  nation  on  Irish  lines. 

But  you  ask,  why  should  we  wish  to  make  Ireland  more  Celtic 
than  it  is — why  should  we  de-Anglicise  it  at  all? 

I  answer  because  the  Irish  race  is  at  present  in  a  most  anoma- 
lous position,  imitating  England  and  yet  apparently  hating  it.  How 
can  it  produce  anything  good  in  literature,  art,  or  institutions  as 
long  as  it  is  actuated  by  motives  so  contradictory?  Besides,  I  be- 
lieve it  is  our  Gaelic  past  which,  though  the  Irish  race  does  not 


THE    NECESSITY   FOR   DE- ANGLICISING   IRELAND  81 

recognise  it  just  at  present,  is  really  at  the  bottom  of  the  Irish 
heart,  and  prevents  us  becoming  citizens  of  the  Empire,  as,  I  think, 
can  be  easily  proved. 

To  say  that  Ireland  has  not  prospered  under  English  rule  is  sim- 
ply a  truism;  all  the  world  admits  it,  England  does  not  deny  it.  But 
the  English  retort  is  ready.  You  have  not  prospered,  they  say,  be- 
cause you  would  not  settle  down  contentedly,  like  the  Scotch,  and 
form  part  of  the  Empire.  'Twenty  years  of  good,  resolute,  grand- 
fatherly  government,'  said  a  well-known  Englishman,  will  solve  the 
Irish  question.  He  possibly  made  the  period  too  short,  but  let  us 
suppose  this.  Let  us  suppose  for  a  moment — which  is  impossible — 
that  there  were  to  arise  a  series  of  Cromwells  in  England  for  the 
space  of  one  hundred  years,  able  administrators  of  the  Empire, 
careful  rulers  of  Ireland,  developing  to  the  utmost  our  national  re- 
sources, whilst  they  unremittingly  stamped  out  every  spark  of  na- 
tional feeling,  making  Ireland  a  land  of  wealth  and  factories,  whilst 
they  extinguished  every  thought  and  every  idea  that  was  Irish,  and 
left  us,  at  last,  after  a  hundred  years  of  good  government,  fat, 
wealthy,  and  populous,  but  with  all  our  characteristics  gone,  with 
every  external  that  at  present  differentiates  us  from  the  English 
lost  or  dropped;  all  our  Irish  names  of  places  and  people  turned 
into  English  names;  the  Irish  language  completely  extinct;  the  O's 
and  the  Macs  dropped;  our  Irish  intonation  changed,  as  far  as  pos- 
sible, by  English  schoolmasters  into  something  English;  our  history 
no  longer  remembered  or  taught;  the  names  of  our  rebels  and 
martyrs  blotted  out;  our  battlefields  and  traditions  forgotten;  the 
fact  that  we  were  not  of  Saxon  origin  dropped  out  of  sight  and 
memory,  and  let  me  now  put  the  question — How  many  Irishmen  are 
there  who  would  purchase  material  prosperity  at  such  a  price?  It 
is  exactly  such  a  question  as  this  and  the  answer  to  it  that  shows  the 
difference  between  the  English  and  Irish  race.  Nine  Englishmen 
out  of  ten  would  jump  to  make  the  exchange,  and  I  as  firmly  be- 
lieve that  nine  Irishmen  out  of  ten  would  indignantly  refuse  it. 

And  yet  this  awful  idea  of  complete  Anglicisation,  which  I  have 
here  put  before  you  in  all  its  crudity,  is,  and  has  been,  making  si- 
lent inroads  upon  us  for  nearly  a  century. 

Its  inroads  have  been  silent,  because,  had  the  Gaelic  race  per- 
ceived what  was  being  done,  or  had  they  been  once  warned  of 
what  was  taking  place  in  their  own  midst,  they  would,  I  think, 


82  DOUGLAS   HYDE 

never  have  allowed  it.  When  the  picture  of  complete  Anglicisation 
is  drawn  for  them  in  all  its  nakedness  Irish  sentimentality  becomes 
suddenly  a  power  and  refuses  to  surrender  its  birthright. 

What  lies  at  the  back  of  the  sentiments  of  nationality  with  which 
the  Irish  millions  seem  so  strongly  leavened,  what  can  prompt 
them  to  applaud  such  sentiments  as: 

They  say  the  British  Empire  owes  much  to  Irish  hands, 

That  Irish  valour  fixed  her  flag  o'er  many  conquered  lands; 

And  ask  if  Erin  takes  no  pride  in  these  her  gallant  sons, 

Her  Wolseleys  and  her  Lawrences,  her  Wolfes  and  Wellingtons. 

Ah!  these  were  of  the  Empire — we  yield  them  to  her  fame, 
And  ne'er  in  Erin's  orisons  are  heard  their  alien  name; 
But  those  for  whom  her  heart  beats  high  and  benedictions  swell, 
They  died  upon  the  scaffold  and  they  pined  within  the  cell. 

Of  course  it  is  a  very  composite  feeling  which  prompts  them;  but  I 
believe  that  what  is  largely  behind  it  is  the  half  unconscious  feeling 
that  the  race  which  at  one  time  held  possession  of  more  than  half 
Europe,  which  established  itself  in  Greece,  and  burned  infant 
Rome,  is  now — almost  extirpated  and  absorbed  elsewhere — making 
its  last  stand  for  independence  in  this  island  of  Ireland;  and  do 
what  they  may  the  race  of  to-day  cannot  wholly  divest  itself  from 
the  mantle  of  its  own  past.  Through  early  Irish  literature,  for  in- 
stance, can  we  best  form  some  conception  of  what  that  race  really 
was,  which,  after  overthrowing  and  trampling  on  the  primitive 
peoples  of  half  Europe,  was  itself  forced  in  turn  to  yield  its 
speech,  manners,  and  independence  to  the  victorious  eagles  of 
Rome.  We  alone  of  the  nations  of  Western  Europe  escaped  the 
claws  of  those  birds  of  prey;  we  alone  developed  ourselves  natu- 
rally upon  our  own  lines  outside  of  and  free  from  all  Roman  in- 
fluence; we  alone  were  thus  able  to  produce  an  early  art  and  litera- 
ture, our  antiquities  can  best  throw  light  upon  the  pre-Romanised 
inhabitants  of  half  Europe,  and — we  are  our  father's  sons. 

There  is  really  no  exaggeration  in  all  this,  although  Irishmen  are 
sometimes  prone  to  overstating  as  well  as  to  forgetting.  Westwood 
himself  declares  that,  were  it  not  for  Irishmen,  these  islands  would 
possess  no  primitive  works  of  art  worth  the  mentioning;  Jubain- 
ville  asserts  that  early  Irish  literature  is  that  which  best  throws 
light  upon  the  manners  and  customs  of  his  own  ancestors  the 
Gauls;  and  Zimmer,  who  has  done  so  much  for  Celtic  philology, 


THE   NECESSITY   FOR   DE-ANGLICISING   IRELAND  83 

has  declared  that  only  a  spurious  criticism  can  make  an  attempt 
to  doubt  about  the  historical  character  of  the  chief  persons  of  our 
two  epic  cycles,  that  of  Cuchullain  and  that  of  Finn.  It  is  useless 
elaborating  this  point;  and  Dr.  Sigerson  has  already  shown  in  his 
opening  lecture  the  debt  of  gratitude  which  in  many  respects  Europe 
owes  to  ancient  Ireland.  The  dim  consciousness  of  this  is  one  of 
those  things  which  are  at  the  back  of  Irish  national  sentiment,  and 
our  business,  whether  we  be  Unionists  or  Nationalists,  should  be  to 
make  this  dim  consciousness  an  active  and  potent  feeling,  and 
thus  increase  our  sense  of  self-respect  and  of  honour. 

What  we  must  endeavour  to  never  forget  is  this,  that  the  Ireland 
of  to-day  is  the  descendant  of  the  Ireland  of  the  seventh  century, 
then  the  school  of  Europe  and  the  torch  of  learning.  It  is  true  that 
Northmen  made  some  minor  settlements  in  it  in  the  ninth  and 
tenth  centuries,  it  is  true  that  the  Normans  made  extensive  set- 
tlements during  the  succeeding  centuries,  but  none  of  those  broke 
the  continuity  of  the  social  life  of  the  island.  Dane  and  Norman 
drawn  to  the  kindly  Irish  breast  issued  forth  in  a  generation  or  two 
fully  Irishised,  and  more  Hibernian  than  the  Hibernians  them- 
selves, and  even  after  the  Cromwellian  plantation  the  children  of 
numbers  of  the  English  soldiers  who  settled  in  the  south  and  mid- 
lands, were,  after  forty  years'  residence,  and  after  marrying  Irish 
wives,  turned  into  good  Irishmen,  and  unable  to  speak  a  word  of 
English,  while  several  Gaelic  poets  of  the  last  century  have,  like 
Father  English,  the  most  unmistakably  English  names.  In  two 
points  only  was  the  continuity  of  the  Irishism  of  Ireland  damaged. 
First,  in  the  north-east  of  Ulster,  where  the  Gaelic  race  was  ex- 
pelled and  the  land  planted  with  aliens,  whom  our  dear  mother 
Erin,  assimilative  as  she  is,  has  hitherto  found  it  difficult  to  absorb, 
and  in  the  ownership  of  the  land,  eight-ninths  of  which  belongs  to 
people  many  of  whom  always  lived,  or  live,  abroad,  and  not  half 
of  whom  Ireland  can  be  said  to  have  assimilated. 

During  all  this  time  the  continuation  of  Erin's  national  life  cen- 
tred, according  to  our  way  of  looking  at  it,  not  so  much  in  the 
Cromwellian  or  Williamite  landholders  who  sat  in  College  Green, 
and  governed  the  country,  as  in  the  mass  of  the  people  whom 
Dean  Swift  considered  might  be  entirely  neglected,  and  looked 
upon  as  hewers  of  wood  and  drawers  of  water;  the  men  who, 
nevertheless,  constituted  the  real  working  population,  and  who 
were  living  on  in  the  hopes  of  better  days;  the  men  who  have 


84  DOUGLAS   HYDE 

since  made  America,  and  have  within  the  last  ten  years  proved 
what  an  important  factor  they  may  be  in  wrecking  or  in  building 
the  British  Empire.  These  are  the  men  of  whom  our  merchants, 
artisans,  and  farmers  mostly  consist,  and  in  whose  hands  is  to-day 
the  making  or  marring  of  an  Irish  nation.  But,  alas,  quantum 
mutatus  ab  illol  What  the  battleaxe  of  the  Dane,  the  sword  of  the 
Norman,  the  wile  of  the  Saxon  were  unable  to  perform,  we  have 
accomplished  ourselves.  We  have  at  last  broken  the  continuity  of 
Irish  life,  and  just  at  the  moment  when  the  Celtic  race  is  pre- 
sumably about  to  largely  recover  possession  of  its  own  country,  it 
finds  itself  deprived  and  stript  of  its  Celtic  characteristics,  cut  off 
from  the  past,  yet  scarcely  in  touch  with  the  present.  It  has  lost 
since  the  beginning  of  this  century  almost  all  that  connected  it 
with  the  era  of  Cuchullain  and  of  Ossian,  that  connected  it  with 
the  Christianisers  of  Europe,  that  connected  it  with  Brian  Boru 
and  the  heroes  of  Clontarf,  with  the  O'Neills  and  O'Donnells,  with 
Rory  O'More,  with  the  Wild  Geese,  and  even  to  some  extent  with 
the  men  of  '98.  It  has  lost  all  that  they  had — language,  traditions, 
music,  genius,  and  ideas.  Just  when  we  should  be  starting  to  build 
up  anew  the  Irish  race  and  the  Gaelic  nation — as  within  our  own 
recollection  Greece  has  been  built  up  anew — we  find  ourselves 
despoiled  of  the  bricks  of  nationality.  The  old  bricks  that  lasted 
eighteen  hundred  years  are  destroyed;  we  must  now  set  to,  to 
bake  new  ones,  if  we  can,  on  other  ground  and  of  other  clay.  Im- 
agine for  a  moment  the  restoration  of  a  German-speaking  Greece. 
The  bulk  of  the  Irish  race  really  lived  in  the  closest  contact  with 
the  traditions  of  the  past  and  the  national  life  of  nearly  eighteen 
hundred  years,  until  the  beginning  of  this  century.  Not  only  so,  but 
during  the  whole  of  the  dark  Penal  times  they  produced  amongst 
themselves  a  most  vigorous  literary  development.  Their  school- 
masters and  wealthy  farmers,  unwearied  scribes,  produced  innu- 
merable manuscripts  in  beautiful  writing,  each  letter  separated 
from  another  as  in  Greek,  transcripts  both  of  the  ancient  litera- 
ture of  their  sires  and  of  the  more  modern  literature  produced  by 
themselves.  Until  the  beginning  of  the  present  century  there  was 
no  county,  no  barony,  and,  I  may  almost  say,  no  townland  which 
did  not  boast  of  an  Irish  poet,  the  people's  representative  of  those 
ancient  bards  who  died  out  with  the  extirpation  of  the  great 
Milesian  families.  The  literary  activity  of  even  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury among  the  Gaels  was  very  great,  not  in  the  South  alone,  but 


THE    NECESSITY   FOR   DE-ANGLICISING   IRELAND  85 

also  in  Ulster — the  number  of  poets  it  produced  was  something 
astonishing.  It  did  not,  however,  produce  many  works  in  Gaelic 
prose,  but  it  propagated  translations  of  many  pieces  from  the 
French,  Latin,  Spanish,  and  English.  Every  well-to-do  farmer  could 
read  and  write  Irish,  and  many  of  them  could  understand  even 
archaic  Irish.  I  have  myself  heard  persons  reciting  the  poems  of 
Donogha  More  O'Daly,  Abbot  of  Boyle,  in  Roscommon,  who  died 
sixty  years  before  Chaucer  was  born.  To  this  very  day  the  peo- 
ple have  a  word  for  archaic  Irish,  which  is  much  the  same  as 
though  Chaucer's  poems  were  handed  down  amongst  the  English 
peasantry,  but  required  a  special  training  to  understand.  This  train- 
ing, however,  nearly  every  one  of  fair  education  during  the  Penal 
times  possessed,  nor  did  they  begin  to  lose  their  Irish  training  and 
knowledge  until  after  the  establishment  of  Maynooth  and  the  rise 
of  O'Connell.  These  two  events  made  an  end  of  the  Gaelicism  of 
the  Gaelic  race,  although  a  great  number  of  poets  and  scribes  ex- 
isted even  down  to  the  forties  and  fifties  of  the  present  century, 
and  a  few  may  linger  on  yet  in  remote  localities.  But  it  may  be 
said,  roughly  speaking,  that  the  ancient  Gaelic  civilisation  died 
with  O'Connell,  largely,  I  am  afraid,  owing  to  his  example  and  his 
neglect  of  inculcating  the  necessity  of  keeping  alive  racial  customs, 
language,  and  traditions,  in  which  with  the  one  notable  exception 
of  our  scholarly  idealist,  Smith  O'Brien,  he  has  been  followed  until 
a  year  ago  by  almost  every  leader  of  the  Irish  race. 

Thomas  Davis  and  his  brilliant  band  of  Young  Irelanders  came  just 
at  the  dividing  of  the  line,  and  tried  to  give  to  Ireland  a  new  litera- 
ture in  English  to  replace  the  literature  which  was  just  being  dis- 
carded. It  succeeded  and  it  did  not  succeed.  It  was  a  most  brilliant 
effort,  but  the  old  bark  had  been  too  recently  stripped  off  the  Irish 
tree,  and  the  trunk  could  not  take  as  it  might  have  done  to  a  fresh 
one.  It  was  a  new  departure,  and  at  first  produced  a  violent  effect. 
Yet  in  the  long  run  it  failed  to  properly  leaven  our  peasantry  who 
might,  perhaps,  have  been  reached  upon  other  lines.  I  say  they  might 
have  been  reached  upon  other  lines  because  it  is  quite  certain  that 
even  well  on  into  the  beginning  of  this  century,  Irish  poor  scholars 
and  schoolmasters  used  to  gain  the  greatest  favour  and  applause  by 
reading  out  manuscripts  in  the  people's  houses  at  night,  some  of 
which  manuscripts  had  an  antiquity  of  a  couple  of  hundred  years  or 
more  behind  them,  and  which,  when  they  got  illegible  from  age, 
were  always  recopied.  The  Irish  peasantry  at  that  time  were  all  to 


86  DOUGLAS   HYDE 

some  extent  cultured  men,  and  many  of  the  better  off  ones  were 
scholars  and  poets.  What  have  we  now  left  of  all  that?  Scarcely  a 
trace.  Many  of  them  read  newspapers  indeed,  but  who  reads, 
much  less  recites,  an  epic  poem,  or  chants  an  elegiac  or  even  a 
hymn? 

Wherever  Irish  throughout  Ireland  continued  to  be  spoken,  there 
the  ancient  MSS.  continued  to  be  read,  there  the  epics  of  Cu- 
chullain,  Conor  MacNessa,  Deirdre,  Finn,  Oscar,  and  Ossian  con- 
tinued to  be  told,  and  there  poetry  and  music  held  sway.  Some  peo- 
ple may  think  I  am  exaggerating  in  asserting  that  such  a  state  of 
things  existed  down  to  the  present  century,  but  it  is  no  exaggeration. 
I  have  myself  spoken  with  men  from  Cavan  and  Tyrone  who 
spoke  excellent  Irish.  Carleton's  stories  bear  witness  to  the  preva- 
lence of  the  Irish  language  and  traditions  in  Ulster  when  he  began 
to  write.  My  friend  Mr.  Lloyd  has  found  numbers  in  Antrim 
who  spoke  good  Irish.  And,  as  for  Leinster,  my  friend  Mr. 
Cleaver  informed  me  that  when  he  lived  in  Wicklow  a  man  came 
by  from  the  County  Carlow  in  search  of  work  who  could  not  speak 
a  word  of  English.  Old  labourers  from  Connacht,  who  used  to  go  to 
reap  the  harvest  in  England  and  take  shipping  at  Drogheda,  told 
me  that  at  that  time,  fifty  years  ago,  Irish  was  spoken  by  every 
one  round  that  town.  I  have  met  an  old  man  in  Wicklow,  not 
twenty  miles  from  Dublin,  whose  parents  always  repeated  the 
Rosary  in  Irish.  My  friend  Father  O'Growny,  who  has  done  and  is 
doing  so  much  for  the  Irish  language  and  literature  at  Maynooth, 
tells  me  that  there,  within  twenty  miles  of  Dublin,  are  three  old 
people  who  still  speak  Irish.  O'Curry  found  people  within  seven 
miles  of  Dublin  city  who  had  never  heard  English  in  their  youth  at 
all,  except  from  the  car-drivers  of  the  great  town.  I  gave  an  old 
man  in  the  street  who  begged  from  me,  a  penny,  only  a  few  days 
ago,  saying,  'Sin  pighin  agad,'  and  when  he  answered  in  Irish  I 
asked  him  where  he  was  from,  and  he  said  from  Newna  (n 
Eamhain),  i.e.,  Navan.  Last  year  I  was  in  Canada  and  out  hunt- 
ing with  some  Red  Indians,  and  we  spent  a  night  in  the  last  white 
man's  house  in  the  last  settlement  on  the  brink  of  the  primeval  for- 
est; and  judging  from  a  peculiarly  Hibernian  physiognomy  that 
the  man  was  Irish,  I  addressed  him  in  Gaelic,  and  to  the  intense 
astonishment  both  of  whites  and  Indians  we  entered  into  a  conver- 
sation which  none  of  them  understood;  and  it  turned  out  that  he  was 
from  within  three  miles  of  Kilkenny,  and  had  been  forty  years  in 


THE    NECESSITY   FOR   DE-ANGLICISING   IRELAND  87 

that  country  without  forgetting  the  language  he  had  spoken  as  a 
child,  and  I,  although  from  the  centre  of  Connacht,  understood 
him  perfectly.  When  my  father  was  a  young  boy  in  the  county 
Leitrim,  not  far  from  Longford,  he  seldom  heard  the  farm  labourers 
and  tenants  speak  anything  but  Irish  amongst  themselves.  So  much 
for  Ulster  and  Leinster,  but  Connacht  and  Munster  were  until  quite 
recently  completely  Gaelic.  In  fact,  I  may  venture  to  say,  that,  up 
to  the  beginning  of  the  present  century,  neither  man,  woman,  nor 
child  of  the  Gaelic  race,  either  of  high  blood  or  low  blood,  existed 
in  Ireland  who  did  not  either  speak  Irish  or  understand  it.  But 
within  the  last  ninety  years  we  have,  with  an  unparalleled  frivol- 
ity, deliberately  thrown  away  our  birthright  and  Anglicised  our- 
selves. None  of  the  children  of  those  people  of  whom  I  have 
spoken  know  Irish,  and  the  race  will  from  henceforth  be  changed; 
for  as  Monsieur  Jubainville  says  of  the  influence  of  Rome  upon 
Gaul,  England  'has  definitely  conquered  us,  she  has  even  imposed 
upon  us  her  language,  that  is  to  say,  the  form  of  our  thoughts  dur- 
ing every  instant  of  our  existence.'  It  is  curious  that  those  who 
most  fear  West  Britonism  have  so  eagerly  consented  to  imposing 
upon  the  Irish  race  what,  according  to  Jubainville,  who  in  common 
with  all  the  great  scholars  of  the  continent,  seems  to  regret  it  very 
much,  is  'the  form  of  our  thoughts  during  every  instant  of  our  ex- 
istence.' 

So  much  for  the  greatest  stroke  of  all  in  our  Anglicisation,  the 
loss  of  our  language.  I  have  often  heard  people  thank  God  that  if 
the  English  gave  us  nothing  else  they  gave  us  at  least  their  lan- 
guage. In  this  way  they  put  a  bold  face  upon  the  matter,  and  pre- 
tend that  the  Irish  language  is  not  worth  knowing,  and  has  no 
literature.  But  the  Irish  language  is  worth  knowing,  or  why  would 
the  greatest  philologists  of  Germany,  France,  and  Italy  be  emu- 
lously  studying  it,  and  it  does  possess  a  literature,  or  why  would  a 
German  savant  have  made  the  calculation  that  the  books  written  in 
Irish  between  the  eleventh  and  seventeenth  centuries,  and  still  ex- 
tant, would  fill  a  thousand  octavo  volumes. 

I  have  no  hesitation  at  all  in  saying  that  every  Irish-feeling  Irish- 
man, who  hates  the  reproach  of  West-Britonism,  should  set  him- 
self to  encourage  the  efforts  which  are  being  made  to  keep  alive 
our  once  great  national  tongue.  The  losing  of  it  is  our  greatest 
blow,  and  the  sorest  stroke  that  the  rapid  Anglicisation  of  Ireland 
has  inflicted  upon  us.  In  order  to  de-Anglicise  ourselves  we  must 


88  DOUGLAS   HYDE 

at  once  arrest  the  decay  of  the  language.  We  must  bring  pressure 
upon  our  politicians  not  to  snuff  it  out  by  their  tacit  discourage- 
ment merely  because  they  do  not  happen  themselves  to  understand 
it.  We  must  arouse  some  spark  of  patriotic  inspiration  among  the 
peasantry  who  still  use  the  language,  and  put  an  end  to  the  shame- 
ful state  of  feeling — a  thousand-tongued  reproach  to  our  leaders 
and  statesmen — which  makes  young  men  and  women  blush  and 
hang  their  heads  when  overheard  speaking  their  own  language.1 
Maynooth  has  at  last  come  splendidly  to  the  front,  and  it  is  now  in- 
cumbent upon  every  clerical  student  to  attend  lectures  in  the  Irish 
language  and  history  during  the  first  three  years  of  his  course.  But 
in  order  to  keep  the  Irish  language  alive  where  it  is  still  spoken — 
which  is  the  utmost  we  can  at  present  aspire  to — nothing  less  than 
a  house-to-house  visitation  and  exhortation  of  the  people  them- 
selves will  do,  something — though  with  a  very  different  purpose — 
analogous  to  the  procedure  that  James  Stephens  adopted  through- 
out Ireland  when  he  found  her  like  a  corpse  on  the  dissecting  table. 
This  and  some  system  of  giving  medals  or  badges  of  honour  to 
every  family  who  will  guarantee  that  they  have  always  spoken 
Irish  amongst  themselves  during  the  year.  But,  unfortunately,  dis- 
tracted as  we  are  and  torn  by  contending  factions,  it  is  impossible 
to  find  either  men  or  money  to  carry  out  this  simple  remedy,  al- 
though to  a  dispassionate  foreigner — to  a  Zeuss,  Jubainville,  Zim- 
mer,  Kuno  Meyer,  Windisch,  or  Ascoli,  and  the  rest — this  is  of 
greater  importance  than  whether  Mr.  Redmond  or  Mr.  MacCarthy 
lead  the  largest  wing  of  the  Irish  party  for  the  moment,  or  Mr.  So- 


1  As  an  instance  of  this,  I  mention  the  case  of  a  young  man  I  met  on  the  road  coming 
from  the  fair  of  Tuam,  some  ten  miles  away.  I  saluted  him  in  Irish,  and  he  answered  me 
in  English.  "Don't  you  speak  Irish,"  said  I.  "Well,  I  declare  to  God,  sir,"  he  said,  "my 
father  and  mother  hasn't  a  word  of  English,  but  still,  I  don't  speak  Irish."  This  was  abso- 
lutely true  for  him.  There  are  thousands  upon  thousands  of  houses  all  over  Ireland  to-day 
where  the  old  people  invariably  use  Irish  in  addressing  the  children,  and  the  children  as 
invariably  answer  in  English,  the  children  understanding  Irish  but  not  speaking  it,  the 
parents  understanding  their  children's  English  but  unable  to  use  it  themselves.  In  a  great 
many  cases,  I  should  almost  say  most,  the  children  are  not  conscious  of  the  existence  of  two 
languages.  I  remember  asking  a  gossoon  a  couple  of  miles  west  of  Ballaghaderreen  in  the  Co. 
Mayo,  some  questions  in  Irish  and  he  answered  them  in  English.  At  last  I  said  to  him, 
"Nach  labhrann  tu  Gaedheilg?"  (i.e.,  "Don't  you  speak  Irish?")  and  his  answer  was,  "And 
isn't  it  Irish  I'm  spaking?"  "No  a-chuisle,"  said  I,  "it's  not  Irish  you're  speaking,  but  English." 
"Well  then,"  said  he,  "that's  how  I  spoke  it  ever!"  He  was  quite  unconscious  that  I  was  ad- 
dressing him  in  one  language  and  he  answering  in  another.  On  a  different  occasion  I  spoke 
Irish  to  a  little  girl  in  a  house  near  Kilfree  Junction,  Co.  Sligo,  into  which  I  went  while 
waiting  for  a  train.  The  girl  answered  me  in  Irish  until  her  brother  came  in.  "Arrah  now, 
Mary,"  said  he,  with  what  was  intended  to  be  a  most  bitter  sneer;  "and  isn't  that  a  credit 
to  you!"  And  poor  Mary — whom  I  had  with  difficulty  persuaded  to  begin — immediately  hung 
her  head  and  changed  to  English.  This  is  going  on  from  Malin  Head  to  Galway,  and  from 
Galway  to  Waterford,  with  the  exception  possibly  of  a  few  spots  in  Donegal  and  Kerry,  where 
the  people  are  wiser  and  more  national. 


THE    NECESSITY   FOR   DE- ANGLICISING   IRELAND  ©9 

and-So  succeed  with  his  election  petition.  To  a  person  taking  a 
bird's-eye  view  of  the  situation  a  hundred  or  five  hundred  years 
hence,  believe  me,  it  will  also  appear  of  greater  importance  than 
any  mere  temporary  wrangle,  but,  unhappily,  our  countrymen  can- 
not be  brought  to  see  this. 

We  can,  however,  insist,  and  we  shall  insist  if  Home  Rule  be  car- 
ried, that  the  Irish  language,  which  so  many  foreign  scholars 
of  the  first  calibre  find  so  worthy  of  study,  shall  be  placed  on  a  par 
with — or  even  above — Greek,  Latin,  and  modern  languages,  in  all 
examinations  held  under  the  Irish  Government.  We  can  also  insist, 
and  we  shall  insist,  that  in  those  baronies  where  the  children  speak 
Irish,  Irish  shall  be  taught,  and  that  Irish-speaking  schoolmasters, 
petty  sessions  clerks,  and  even  magistrates  be  appointed  in  Irish- 
speaking  districts.  If  all  this  were  done,  it  should  not  be  very 
difficult,  with  the  aid  of  the  foremost  foreign  scholars,  to  bring 
about  a  tone  of  thought  which  would  make  it  disgraceful  for  an 
educated  Irishman — especially  of  the  old  Celtic  race,  MacDermotts, 
O'Conors,  O'Sullivans,  MacCarthys,  O'Neills — to  be  ignorant  of  his 
own  language — would  make  it  at  least  as  disgraceful  as  for  an  edu- 
cated Jew  to  be  quite  ignorant  of  Hebrew. 


Part  II 

THE  LIVING  WORLD  FOR  TEXT 


And  that  enquiring  man  John  Synge  comes  next, 
That  dying  chose  the  living  world  for  text  .  .  . 
W.  B.  Yeats 


M.     SYNGE 


Preface  to  The  Playboy  of  the 
Western  World1 


In  writing  The  Playboy  of  the  Western  World,  as  in  my  other 
plays,  I  have  used  one  or  two  words  only  that  I  have  not  heard 
among  the  country  people  of  Ireland,  or  spoken  in  my  own  nurs- 
ery before  I  could  read  the  newspapers.  A  certain  number  of  the 
phrases  I  employ  I  have  heard  also  from  herds  and  fishermen  along 
the  coast  from  Kerry  to  Mayo,  or  from  beggar-women  and  ballad- 
singers  nearer  Dublin;  and  I  am  glad  to  acknowledge  how  much  I 
owe  to  the  folk-imagination  of  these  fine  people.  Anyone  who  has 
lived  in  real  intimacy  with  the  Irish  peasantry  will  know  that  the 
wildest  sayings  and  ideas  in  this  play  are  tame  indeed,  compared 
with  the  fancies  one  may  hear  in  any  little  hillside  cabin  in  Geesala, 
or  Carraroe,  or  Dingle  Bay.  All  art  is  a  collaboration;  and  there  is 
little  doubt  that  in  the  happy  ages  of  literature,  striking  and  beauti- 
ful phrases  were  as  ready  to  the  story-teller's  or  the  playwright's 
hand,  as  the  rich  cloaks  and  dresses  of  his  time.  It  is  probable 
that  when  the  Elizabethan  dramatist  took  his  ink-horn  and  sat 
down  to  his  work  he  used  many  phrases  that  he  had  just  heard,  as 
he  sat  at  dinner,  from  his  mother  or  his  children.  In  Ireland,  those  of 
us  who  know  the  people  have  the  same  privilege.  When  I  was 
writing  The  Shadow  of  the  Glen,  some  years  ago,  I  got  more  aid 
than  any  learning  could  have  given  me  from  a  chink  in  the  floor  of 
the  old  Wicklow  house  where  I  was  staying,  that  let  me  hear  what 
was  being  said  by  the  servant  girls  in  the  kitchen.  This  matter,  I 
think,  is  of  importance,  for  in  countries  where  the  imagination  of 
the  people,  and  the  language  they  use,  is  rich  and  living,  it  is  possi- 
ble for  a  writer  to  be  rich  and  copious  in  his  words,  and  at  the  same 
time  to  give  the  reality,  which  is  the  root  of  all  poetry,  in  a  com- 
prehensive and  natural  form.  In  the  modern  literature  of  towns, 
however,  richness  is  found  only  in  sonnets,  or  prose  poems,  or  in 
one  or  two  elaborate  books  that  are  far  away  from  the  profound 
and  common  interests  of  life.  One  has,  on  one  side,  Mallarme  and 
Huysmans  producing  this  literature;  and  on  the  other,  Ibsen  and 
Zola  dealing  with  the  reality  of  life  in  joyless  and  pallid  words.  On 

1  From  The  Playboy  of  the  Western  World,  Dublin,  1907. 

93 


o 


> 


^ 


94  J.    M.    SYNGE 

the  stage  one  must  have  reality,  and  one  must  have  joy;  and  that 
is  why  the  intellectual  modern  drama  has  failed,  and  people  have 
grown  sick  of  the  false  joy  of  the  musical  comedy,  that  has  been 
given  them  in  place  of  the  rich  joy  found  only  in  what  is  superb 
and  wild  in  reality.  In  a  good  play  every  speech  should  be  as  fully 
flavoured  as  a  nut  or  apple,  and  such  speeches  cannot  be  written 
by  anyone  who  works  among  people  who  have  shut  their  lips  on 
poetry.  In  Ireland,  for  a  few  years  more,  we  have  a  popular  im- 
agination that  is  fiery  and  magnificent,  and  tender;  so  that  those  of 
us  who  wish  to  write  start  with  a  chance  that  is  not  given  to  writers 
in  places  where  the  springtime  of  the  local  life  has  been  forgotten, 
and  the  harvest  is  a  memory  only,  and  the  straw  has  been  turned 
into  bricks. 

January  21,  1907 

The  Aran  Islands1 

I  am  in  Aranmor,2  sitting  over  a  turf  fire,  listening  to  a  murmur 
of  Gaelic  that  is  rising  from  a  little  public-house  under  my  room. 

The  steamer  which  comes  to  Aran  sails  according  to  the  tide,  and 
it  was  six  o'clock  this  morning  when  we  left  the  quay  of  Galway 
in  a  dense  shroud  of  mist. 

A  low  line  of  shore  was  visible  at  first  on  the  right  between  the 
movement  of  the  waves  and  fog,  but  when  we  came  further  it  was 
lost  sight  of,  and  nothing  could  be  seen  but  the  mist  curling  in  the 
rigging,  and  a  small  circle  of  foam. 

There  were  few  passengers;  a  couple  of  men  going  out  with 
young  pigs  tied  loosely  in  sacking,  three  or  four  young  girls  who 
sat  in  the  cabin  with  their  heads  completely  twisted  in  their  shawls, 
and  a  builder,  on  his  way  to  repair  the  pier  at  Kilronan,  who  walked 
up  and  down  and  talked  with  me. 

In  about  three  hours  Aran  came  in  sight.  A  dreary  rock  appeared 
at  first  sloping  up  from  the  sea  into  the  fog;  then,  as  we  drew 
nearer,  a  coast-guard  station  and  the  village. 

1  From   The  Aran  Islands,   London  and  Dublin,   1907. 

2  Aranmor  is  the  largest  of  the  three  islands  that  make  up  the  Aran  group.  The  others  are 
Inishmaan  and  Inishere. 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  95 

A  little  later  I  was  wandering  out  along  the  one  good  roadway  of 
the  island,  looking  over  low  walls  on  either  side  into  small  flat  fields 
of  naked  rock.  I  have  seen  nothing  so  desolate.  Grey  floods  of 
water  were  sweeping  everywhere  upon  the  limestone,  making  at 
times  a  wild  torrent  of  the  road,  which  twined  continually  over  low 
hills  and  cavities  in  the  rock  or  passed  between  a  few  small  fields  of 
potatoes  or  grass  hidden  away  in  corners  that  had  shelter.  When- 
ever the  cloud  lifted  I  could  see  the  edge  of  the  sea  below  me  on 
the  right,  and  the  naked  ridge  of  the  island  above  me  on  the  other 
side.  Occasionally  I  passed  a  lonely  chapel  or  schoolhouse,  or  a  line 
of  stone  pillars  with  crosses  above  them  and  inscriptions  asking  a 
prayer  for  the  soul  of  the  person  they  commemorated. 

I  met  few  people;  but  here  and  there  a  band  of  tall  girls  passed 
me  on  their  way  to  Kilronan,  and  called  out  to  me  with  humorous 
wonder,  speaking  English  with  a  slight  foreign  intonation  that 
differed  a  good  deal  from  the  brogue  of  Galway.  The  rain  and 
cold  seemed  to  have  no  influence  on  their  vitality,  and  as  they  hur- 
ried past  me  with  eager  laughter  and  great  talking  in  Gaelic,  they 
left  the  wet  masses  of  rock  more  desolate  than  before. 

A  little  after  midday  when  I  was  coming  back  one  old  half -blind 
man  spoke  to  me  in  Gaelic,  but,  in  general,  I  was  surprised  at  the 
abundance  and  fluency  of  the  foreign  tongue. 

In  the  afternoon  the  rain  continued,  so  I  sat  here  in  the  inn  look- 
ing out  through  the  mist  at  a  few  men  who  were  unlading  hookers 
that  had  come  in  with  turf  from  Connemara,  and  at  the  long-legged 
pigs  that  were  playing  in  the  surf.  As  the  fishermen  came  in  and  out 
of  the  public-house  underneath  my  room,  I  could  hear  through 
the  broken  panes  that  a  number  of  them  still  used  the  Gaelic, 
though  it  seems  to  be  falling  out  of  use  among  the  younger  people 
of  this  village. 

The  old  woman  of  the  house  had  promised  to  get  me  a  teacher  of 
the  language,  and  after  a  while  I  heard  a  shuffling  on  the  stairs, 
and  the  old  dark  man  I  had  spoken  to  in  the  morning  groped  his 
way  into  the  room. 

I  brought  him  over  to  the  fire,  and  we  talked  for  many  hours. 
He  told  me  that  he  had  known  Petrie  and  Sir  William  Wilde,  and 
many  living  antiquarians,  and  had  taught  Irish  to  Dr.  Finck  and 
Dr.  Pedersen,  and  given  stories  to  Mr.  Curtin  of  America.  A  little 
after  middle  age  he  had  fallen  over  a  cliff,  and  since  then  he  had 
had  little  eyesight,  and  a  trembling  of  his  hands  and  head. 


96  J.    M.    SYNGE 

As  we  talked  he  sat  huddled  together  over  the  fire,  shaking  and 
blind,  yet  his  face  was  indescribably  pliant,  lighting  up  with  an 
ecstasy  of  humour  when  he  told  me  anything  that  had  a  point  of 
wit  or  malice,  and  growing  sombre  and  desolate  again  when  he 
spoke  of  religion  or  the  fairies. 

He  had  great  confidence  in  his  own  powers  and  talent,  and  in 
the  superiority  of  his  stories  over  all  other  stories  in  the  world. 
When  we  were  speaking  of  Mr.  Curtin,  he  told  me  that  this  gentle- 
man had  brought  out  a  volume  of  his  Aran  stories  in  America,  and 
made  five  hundred  pounds  by  the  sale  of  them. 

'And  what  do  you  think  he  did  then?'  he  continued;  'he  wrote  a 
book  of  his  own  stories  after  making  that  lot  of  money  with  mine. 
And  he  brought  them  out,  and  the  divil  a  halfpenny  did  he  get  for 
them.  Would  you  believe  that?' 

Afterwards  he  told  me  how  one  of  his  children  had  been  taken  by 
the  fairies. 

One  day  a  neighbour  was  passing,  and  she  said,  when  she  saw  it 
on  the  road,  'That's  a  fine  child/ 

Its  mother  tried  to  say  'God  bless  it/  but  something  choked  the 
words  in  her  throat. 

A  while  later  they  found  a  wound  on  its  neck,  and  for  three 
nights  the  house  was  filled  with  noises. 

'I  never  wear  a  shirt  at  night/  he  said,  'but  I  got  up  out  of  my 
bed,  all  naked  as  I  was,  when  I  heard  the  noises  in  the  house,  and 
lighted  a  light,  but  there  was  nothing  in  it.' 

Then  a  dummy1  came  and  made  signs  of  hammering  nails  in 
a  coffin. 

The  next  day  the  seed  potatoes  were  full  of  blood,  and  the  child 
told  his  mother  that  he  was  going  to  America. 

That  night  it  died,  and  'Believe  me/  said  the  old  man,  'the 
fairies  were  in  it.' 

When  he  went  away,  a  little  bare-footed  girl  was  sent  up  with 
turf  and  the  bellows  to  make  a  fire  that  would  last  for  the  evening. 

She  was  shy,  yet  eager  to  talk,  and  told  me  that  she  had  good 
spoken  Irish,  and  was  learning  to  read  it  in  the  school,  and  that  she 
had  been  twice  to  Galway,  though  there  are  many  grown  women 
in  the  place  who  have  never  set  a  foot  upon  the  mainland. 


1  A  deaf  mute. 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  97 

The  rain  has  cleared  off,  and  I  have  had  my  first  real  introduction 
to  the  island  and  its  people. 

I  went  out  through  Killeany — the  poorest  village  in  Aranmor — to 
a  long  neck  of  sandhill  that  runs  out  into  the  sea  towards  the  south- 
west. As  I  lay  there  on  the  grass  the  clouds  lifted  from  the  Con- 
nemara  mountains  and,  for  a  moment,  the  green  undulating  fore- 
ground, backed  in  the  distance  by  a  mass  of  hills,  reminded  me  of 
the  country  near  Rome.  Then  the  dun  top-sail  of  a  hooker  swept 
above  the  edge  of  the  sandhill  and  revealed  the  presence  of  the  sea. 

As  I  moved  on  a  boy  and  a  man  came  down  from  the  next  vil- 
lage to  talk  to  me,  and  I  found  that  here,  at  least,  English  was  im- 
perfectly understood.  When  I  asked  them  if  there  were  any  trees  in 
the  island  they  held  a  hurried  consultation  in  Gaelic,  and  then  the 
man  asked  if  'tree'  meant  the  same  thing  as  'bush,'  for  if  so  there 
were  a  few  in  sheltered  hollows  to  the  east. 

They  walked  on  with  me  to  the  sound  which  separates  this  island 
from  Inishmaan — the  middle  island  of  the  group — and  showed  me 
the  roll  from  the  Atlantic  running  up  between  two  walls  of  cliff. 

They  told  me  that  several  men  had  stayed  on  Inishmaan  to  learn 
Irish,  and  the  boy  pointed  out  a  line  of  hovels  where  they  had 
lodged  running  like  a  belt  of  straw  round  the  middle  of  the  island. 
The  place  looked  hardly  fit  for  habitation.  There  was  no  green  to 
be  seen,  and  no  sign  of  the  people  except  these  beehive-like  roofs, 
and  the  outline  of  a  Dun  that  stood  out  above  them  against  the 
edge  of  the  sky. 

After  a  while  my  companions  went  away  and  two  other  boys 
came  and  walked  at  my  heels,  till  I  turned  and  made  them  talk  to 
me.  They  spoke  at  first  of  their  poverty,  and  then  one  of  them  said — 

1  dare  say  you  do  have  to  pay  ten  shillings  a  week  in  the  hotel?* 

'More,'  I  answered. 

'Twelve?' 

'More.' 

'Fifteen?' 

'More  still.' 

Then  he  drew  back  and  did  not  question  me  any  further,  either 
thinking  that  I  had  lied  to  check  his  curiosity,  or  too  awed  by  my 
riches  to  continue. 

Repassing  Killeany  I  was  joined  by  a  man  who  had  spent  twenty 
years  in  America,  where  he  had  lost  his  health  and  then  returned, 
so  long  ago  that  he  had  forgotten  English  and  could  hardly  make 


98  J.    M.    SYNGE 

me  understand  him.  He  seemed  hopeless,  dirty,  and  asthmatic,  and 
after  going  with  me  for  a  few  hundred  yards  he  stopped  and  asked 
for  coppers.  I  had  none  left,  so  I  gave  him  a  fill  of  tobacco,  and  he 
went  back  to  his  hovel. 

When  he  was  gone,  two  little  girls  took  their  place  behind  me  and 
I  drew  them  in  turn  into  conversation. 

They  spoke  with  a  delicate  exotic  intonation  that  was  full  of 
charm,  and  told  me  with  a  sort  of  chant  how  they  guide  ladies  and 
gintlemins'  in  the  summer  to  all  that  is  worth  seeing  in  their  neigh- 
borhood, and  sell  them  pampooties  and  maidenhair  ferns,  which 
are  common  among  the  rocks. 

We  were  now  in  Kilronan,  and  as  we  parted  they  showed  me 
holes  in  their  own  pampooties,  or  cowskin  sandals,  and  asked  me 
the  price  of  new  ones.  I  told  them  that  my  purse  was  empty,  and 
then  with  a  few  quaint  words  of  blessing  they  turned  away  from 
me  and  went  down  to  the  pier. 

All  this  walk  back  had  been  extraordinarily  fine.  The  intense  in- 
sular clearness  one  sees  only  in  Ireland,  and  after  rain,  was  throw- 
ing out  every  ripple  in  the  sea  and  sky,  and  every  crevice  in  the 
hills  beyond  the  bay. 

This  evening  an  old  man  came  to  see  me,  and  said  he  had  known 
a  relative  of  mine  who  passed  some  time  on  this  island  forty-three 
years  ago. 

1  was  standing  under  the  pier-wall  mending  nets,'  he  said,  Vhen 
you  came  off  the  steamer,  and  I  said  to  myself  in  that  moment, 
if  there  is  a  man  of  the  name  of  Synge  left  walking  the  world,  it  is 
that  man  yonder  will  be  he/ 

He  went  on  to  complain  in  curiously  simple  yet  dignified  lan- 
guage of  the  changes  that  have  taken  place  here  since  he  left  the 
island  to  go  to  sea  before  the  end  of  his  childhood. 

1  have  come  back,'  he  said,  'to  live  in  a  bit  of  a  house  with  my 
sister.  The  island  is  not  the  same  at  all  to  what  it  was.  It  is  little 
good  I  can  get  from  the  people  who  are  in  it  now,  and  anything  I 
have  to  give  them  they  don't  care  to  have/ 

From  what  I  hear  this  man  seems  to  have  shut  himself  up  in  a 
world  of  individual  conceits  and  theories,  and  to  live  aloof  at  his 
trade  of  net-mending,  regarded  by  the  other  islanders  with  respect 
and  half -ironical  sympathy. 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  99 

A  little  later  when  I  went  down  to  the  kitchen  I  found  two  men 
from  Inishmaan  who  had  been  benighted  on  the  island.  They 
seemed  a  simpler  and  perhaps  a  more  interesting  type  than  the 
people  here,  and  talked  with  careful  English  about  the  history  of 
the  Duns,  and  the  Book  of  Ballymote,  and  the  Book  of  Kells,  and 
other  ancient  MSS.,  with  the  names  of  which  they  seemed  familiar. 

In  spite  of  the  charm  of  my  teacher,  the  old  blind  man  I  met  the 
day  of  my  arrival,  I  have  decided  to  move  on  to  Inishmaan,  where 
Gaelic  is  more  generally  used,  and  the  life  is  perhaps  the  most 
primitive  that  is  left  in  Europe. 

I  spent  all  this  last  day  with  my  blind  guide,  looking  at  the  an- 
tiquities that  abound  in  the  west  or  north-west  of  the  island. 

As  we  set  out  I  noticed  among  the  groups  of  girls  who  smiled 
at  our  fellowship — old  Mourteen  says  we  are  like  the  cuckoo  with 
its  pipit — a  beautiful  oval  face  with  the  singularly  spiritual  ex- 
pression that  is  so  marked  in  one  type  of  the  West  Ireland  women. 
Later  in  the  day,  as  the  old  man  talked  continually  of  the  fairies 
and  the  women  they  have  taken,  it  seemed  that  there  was  a  possi- 
ble link  between  the  wild  mythology  that  is  accepted  on  the  islands 
and  the  strange  beauty  of  the  women. 

At  midday  we  rested  near  the  ruins  of  a  house,  and  two  beautiful 
boys  came  up  and  sat  near  us.  Old  Mourteen  asked  them  why  the 
house  was  in  ruins,  and  who  had  lived  in  it. 

'A  rich  farmer  built  it  a  while  since/  they  said,  'but  after  two 
years  he  was  driven  away  by  the  fairy  host.' 

The  boys  came  on  with  us  some  distance  to  the  north  to  visit 
one  of  the  ancient  beehive  dwellings  that  is  still  in  perfect  preserva- 
tion. When  we  crawled  in  on  our  hands  and  knees,  and  stood  up  in 
the  gloom  of  the  interior,  old  Mourteen  took  a  freak  of  earthly  hu- 
mour and  began  telling  what  he  would  have  done  if  he  could  have 
come  in  there  when  he  was  a  young  man  and  a  young  girl  along 
with  him. 

Then  he  sat  down  in  the  middle  of  the  floor  and  began  to  recite 
old  Irish  poetry,  with  an  exquisite  purity  of  intonation  that  brought 
tears  to  my  eyes  though  I  understood  but  little  of  the  meaning. 

On  our  way  home  he  gave  me  the  Catholic  theory  of  the  fairies. 

When  Lucifer  saw  himself  in  the  glass  he  thought  himself  equal 
with  God.  Then  the  Lord  threw  him  out  of  Heaven,  and  all  the 


100  J.    M.    SYNGE 

angels  that  belonged  to  him.  While  He  was  'chucking  them  out,'  an 
archangel  asked  Him  to  spare  some  of  them,  and  those  that  were 
falling  are  in  the  air  still,  and  have  power  to  wreck  ships,  and  to 
work  evil  in  the  world. 

From  this  he  wandered  off  into  tedious  matters  of  theology,  and 
repeated  many  long  prayers  and  sermons  in  Irish  that  he  had  heard 
from  the  priests. 

A  little  further  on  we  came  to  a  slated  house,  and  I  asked  him 
who  was  living  in  it. 

'A  kind  of  a  schoolmistress,'  he  said;  then  his  old  face  puckered 
with  a  gleam  of  pagan  malice. 

'Ah,  master,'  he  said,  wouldn't  it  be  fine  to  be  in  there,  and  to  be 
kissing  her?' 

A  couple  of  miles  from  this  village  we  turned  aside  to  look  at  an 
old  ruined  church  of  the  Ceathair  Aluinn  (The  Four  Beautiful 
Persons ) ,  and  a  holy  well  near  it  that  is  famous  for  cures  of  blind- 
ness and  epilepsy. 

As  we  sat  near  the  well  a  very  old  man  came  up  from  a  cottage 
near  the  road,  and  told  me  how  it  had  become  famous. 

'A  woman  of  Sligo  had  a  son  who  was  born  blind,  and  one 
night  she  dreamed  that  she  saw  an  island  with  a  blessed  well  in  it 
that  could  cure  her  son.  She  told  her  dream  in  the  morning,  and  an 
old  man  said  it  was  of  Aran  she  was  after  dreaming. 

'She  brought  her  son  down  by  the  coast  of  Galway,  and  came  out 
in  a  curagh,  and  landed  below  where  you  see  a  bit  of  a  cove. 

'She  walked  up  then  to  the  house  of  my  father — God  rest  his  soul 
— and  she  told  them  what  she  was  looking  for. 

'My  father  said  that  there  was  a  well  like  what  she  had  dreamed 
of,  and  that  he  would  send  a  boy  along  with  her  to  show  her  the 
way. 

'"There's  no  need,  at  all,"  said  she;  "haven't  I  seen  it  all  in  my 
dream?" 

'Then  she  went  out  with  the  child  and  walked  up  to  this  well, 
and  she  kneeled  down  and  began  saying  her  prayers.  Then  she  put 
her  hand  out  for  the  water,  and  put  it  on  his  eyes,  and  the  moment 
it  touched  him  he  called  out:  "O  mother,  look  at  the  pretty 
flowers!" ' 

After  that  Mourteen  described  the  feats  of  poteen  drinking  and 
fighting  that  he  did  in  his  youth,  and  went  on  to  talk  of  Diarmid, 
who  was  the  strongest  man  after  Samson,  and  of  one  of  the  beds 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  101 

of  Diarmid  and  Grainne,1  which  is  on  the  east  of  the  island.  He 
says  that  Diarmid  was  killed  by  the  druids,  who  put  a  burning  shirt 
on  him — a  fragment  of  mythology  that  may  connect  Diarmid  with 
the  legend  of  Hercules,  if  it  is  not  due  to  the  "learning"  in  some 
hedge-school  master's  ballad. 

Then  we  talked  about  Inishmaan. 

'You'll  have  an  old  man  to  talk  with  you  over  there,'  he  said, 
'and  tell  you  stories  of  the  fairies,  but  he's  walking  about  with 
two  sticks  under  him  this  ten  year.  Did  ever  you  hear  what  it  is 
goes  on  four  legs  when  it  is  young,  and  on  two  legs  after  that,  and 
on  three  legs  when  it  does  be  old?' 

I  gave  him  the  answer. 

'Ah,  master,'  he  said,  'you're  a  cute  one,  and  the  blessing  of  God 
be  on  you.  Well,  I'm  on  three  legs  this  minute,  but  the  old  man 
beyond  is  back  on  four;  I  don't  know  if  I'm  better  than  the  way  he 
is;  he's  got  his  sight  and  I'm  only  an  old  dark  man.' 

I  am  settled  at  last  on  Inishmaan  in  a  small  cottage  with  a  con- 
tinual drone  of  Gaelic  coming  from  the  kitchen  that  opens  into  my 
room. 

Early  this  morning  the  man  of  the  house  came  over  for  me  with 
a  four-oared  curagh — that  is,  a  curagh  with  four  rowers  and  four 
oars  on  either  side,  as  each  man  uses  two — and  we  set  off  a  little  be- 
fore noon. 

It  gave  me  a  moment  of  exquisite  satisfaction  to  find  myself  mov- 
ing away  from  civilisation  in  this  rude  canvas  canoe  of  a  model 
that  has  served  primitive  races  since  men  first  went  on  the  sea. 

We  had  to  stop  for  a  moment  at  a  hulk  that  is  anchored  in  the 
bay,  to  make  some  arrangements  for  the  fish-curing  of  the  middle 
island,  and  my  crew  called  out  as  soon  as  we  were  within  earshot 
that  they  had  a  man  with  them  who  had  been  in  France  a  month 
from  this  day. 

When  we  started  again,  a  small  sail  was  run  up  in  the  bow,  and 
we  set  off  across  the  sound  with  a  leaping  oscillation  that  had  no 
resemblance  to  the  heavy  movement  of  a  boat. 

The  sail  is  only  used  as  an  aid,  so  the  men  continued  to  row  after 
it  had  gone  up,  and  as  they  occupied  the  four  cross-seats  I  lay  on 
the  canvas  at  the  stern  and  the  frame  of  slender  laths,  which  bent 
and  quivered  as  the  waves  passed  under  them. 

1  Grainne,  the  betrothed  of  the  hero  Finn,  compelled  Diarmid  to  elope  with  her.  Finn 
pursued    them   relentlessly   until    the   death   of   Diarmid. 


102  J.    M.    SYNGE 

When  we  set  off  it  was  a  brilliant  morning  of  April,  and  the 
green,  glittering  waves  seemed  to  toss  the  canoe  among  them- 
selves, yet  as  we  drew  nearer  this  island  a  sudden  thunderstorm 
broke  out  behind  the  rocks  we  were  approaching,  and  lent  a  mo- 
mentary tumult  to  this  still  vein  of  the  Atlantic. 

We  landed  at  a  small  pier,  from  which  a  rude  track  leads  up  to 
the  village  between  small  fields  and  bare  sheets  of  rock  like  those 
in  Aranmor.  The  youngest  son  of  my  boatman,  a  boy  of  about 
seventeen,  who  is  to  be  my  teacher  and  guide,  was  waiting  for  me 
at  the  pier  and  guided  me  to  his  house,  while  the  men  settled  the 
curagh  and  followed  slowly  with  my  baggage. 

My  room  is  at  one  end  of  the  cottage,  with  a  boarded  floor  and 
ceiling,  and  two  windows  opposite  each  other.  Then  there  is  the 
kitchen  with  earth  floor  and  open  rafters,  and  two  doors  opposite 
each  other  opening  into  the  open  air,  but  no  windows.  Beyond  it 
there  are  two  small  rooms  of  half  the  width  of  the  kitchen  with  one 
window  apiece. 

The  kitchen  itself,  where  I  will  spend  most  of  my  time,  is  full  of 
beauty  and  distinction.  The  red  dresses  of  the  women  who  cluster 
round  the  fire  on  their  stools  give  a  glow  of  almost  Eastern  rich- 
ness, and  the  walls  have  been  toned  by  the  turf-smoke  to  a  soft 
brown  that  blends  with  the  grey  earth-colour  of  the  floor.  Many 
sorts  of  fishing-tackle,  and  the  nets  and  oil-skins  of  the  men,  are 
hung  upon  the  walls  or  among  the  open  rafters;  and  right  over- 
head, under  the  thatch,  there  is  a  whole  cowskin  from  which  they 
make  pampooties. 

Every  article  on  these  islands  has  an  almost  personal  character, 
which  gives  this  simple  life,  where  all  art  is  unknown,  something 
of  the  artistic  beauty  of  mediaeval  life.  The  curaghs  and  spinning- 
wheels,  the  tiny  wooden  barrels  that  are  still  much  used  in  the  place 
of  earthenware,  the  home-made  cradles,  churns,  and  baskets,  are 
all  full  of  individuality,  and  being  made  from  materials  that  are 
common  here,  yet  to  some  extent  peculiar  to  the  island,  they  seem 
to  exist  as  a  natural  link  between  the  people  and  the  world  that  is 
about  them. 

The  simplicity  and  unity  of  the  dress  increases  in  another  way 
the  local  air  of  beauty.  The  women  wear  red  petticoats  and  jackets 
of  the  island  wool  stained  with  madder,  to  which  they  usually  add  a 
plaid  shawl  twisted  round  their  chests  and  tied  at  their  backs. 
When  it  rains  they  throw  another  petticoat  over  their  heads  with 


THE    ARAN   ISLANDS  103 

the  waistband  round  their  faces,  or,  if  they  are  young,  they  use  a 
heavy  shawl  like  those  worn  in  Galway.  Occasionally  other  wraps 
are  worn,  and  during  the  thunderstorm  I  arrived  in  I  saw  several 
girls  with  men's  waistcoats  buttoned  round  their  bodies.  Their  skirts 
do  not  come  much  below  the  knee,  and  show  their  powerful  legs 
in  the  heavy  indigo  stockings  with  which  they  are  all  provided. 

The  men  wear  three  colours:  the  natural  wool,  indigo,  and  a 
grey  flannel  that  is  woven  of  alternate  threads  of  indigo  and  the 
natural  wool.  In  Aranmor  many  of  the  younger  men  have  adopted 
the  usual  fisherman's  jersey,  but  I  have  only  seen  one  on  this 
island. 

As  flannel  is  cheap — the  women  spin  the  yarn  from  the  wool  of 
their  own  sheep,  and  it  is  then  woven  by  a  weaver  in  Kilronan 
for  fourpence  a  yard — the  men  seem  to  wear  an  indefinite  number 
of  waistcoats  and  woollen  drawers  one  over  the  other.  They  are 
usually  surprised  at  the  lightness  of  my  own  dress,  and  one  old  man 
I  spoke  to  for  a  minute  on  the  pier,  when  I  came  ashore,  asked  me  if 
I  was  not  cold  with  'my  little  clothes.' 

As  I  sat  in  the  kitchen  to  dry  the  spray  from  my  coat,  several 
men  who  had  seen  me  walking  up  came  in  to  talk  to  me,  usually 
murmuring  on  the  threshold,  'The  blessing  of  God  on  this  place,' 
or  some  similar  words. 

The  courtesy  of  the  old  woman  of  the  house  is  singularly  attrac- 
tive, and  though  I  could  not  understand  much  of  what  she  said — 
she  has  no  English — I  could  see  with  how  much  grace  she  motioned 
each  visitor  to  a  chair,  or  stool,  according  to  his  age,  and  said  a 
few  words  to  him  till  he  drifted  into  our  English  conversation. 

For  the  moment  my  own  arrival  is  the  chief  subject  of  interest, 
and  the  men  who  come  in  are  eager  to  talk  to  me. 

Some  of  them  express  themselves  more  correctly  than  the  ordi- 
nary peasant,  others  use  the  Gaelic  idioms  continually  and  sub- 
stitute 'he'  or  'she'  for  'it,'  as  the  neuter  pronoun  is  not  found  in 
modern  Irish. 

A  few  of  the  men  have  a  curiously  full  vocabulary,  others  know 
only  the  commonest  words  in  English,  and  are  driven  to  ingenious 
devices  to  express  their  meaning.  Of  all  the  subjects  we  can  talk  of 
war  seems  their  favourite,  and  the  conflict  between  America  and 
Spain  is  causing  a  great  deal  of  excitement.  Nearly  all  the  families 
have  relations  who  have  had  to  cross  the  Atlantic,  and  all  eat  of  the 
flour  and  bacon  that  is  brought  from  the  United  States,  so  they 


104  J.    M.    SYNGE 

have  a  vague  fear  that  'if  anything  happened  to  America,'  their 
own  island  would  cease  to  be  habitable. 

Foreign  languages  are  another  favourite  topic,  and  as  these  men 
are  bilingual  they  have  a  fair  notion  of  what  it  means  to  speak  and 
think  in  many  different  idioms.  Most  of  the  strangers  they  see  on 
the  islands  are  philological  students,  and  the  people  have  been  led 
to  conclude  that  linguistic  studies,  particularly  Gaelic  studies,  are 
the  chief  occupation  of  the  outside  world. 

1  have  seen  Frenchmen,  and  Danes,  and  Germans,'  said  one 
man,  'and  there  does  be  a  power  of  Irish  books  along  with  them, 
and  they  reading  them  better  than  ourselves.  Believe  me  there  are 
few  rich  men  now  in  the  world  who  are  not  studying  the  Gaelic' 

They  sometimes  ask  me  the  French  for  simple  phrases,  and 
when  they  have  listened  to  the  intonation  for  a  moment,  most  of 
them  are  able  to  reproduce  it  with  admirable  precision. 

When  I  was  going  out  this  morning  to  walk  round  the  island 
with  Michael,  the  boy  who  is  teaching  me  Irish,  I  met  an  old  man 
making  his  way  down  to  the  cottage.  He  was  dressed  in  miserable 
black  clothes  which  seemed  to  have  come  from  the  mainland,  and 
was  so  bent  with  rheumatism  that,  at  a  little  distance,  he  looked 
more  like  a  spider  than  a  human  being. 

Michael  told  me  it  was  Pat  Dirane,  the  story-teller  old  Mourteen 
had  spoken  of  on  the  other  island.  I  wished  to  turn  back,  as  he  ap- 
peared to  be  on  his  way  to  visit  me,  but  Michael  would  not  hear  of 
it. 

'He  will  be  sitting  by  the  fire  when  we  come  in/  he  said;  'let 
you  not  be  afraid,  there  will  be  time  enough  to  be  talking  to  him 
by  and  by.' 

He  was  right.  As  I  came  down  into  the  kitchen  some  hours  later 
old  Pat  was  still  in  the  chimney-corner,  blinking  with  the  turf 
smoke. 

He  spoke  English  with  remarkable  aptness  and  fluency,  due,  I 
believe,  to  the  months  he  spent  in  the  English  provinces  working 
at  the  harvest  when  he  was  a  young  man. 

After  a  few  formal  compliments  he  told  me  how  he  had  been 
crippled  by  an  attack  of  the  'old  hin'  (i.e.  the  influenza),  and  had 
been  complaining  ever  since  in  addition  to  his  rheumatism. 

While  the  old  woman  was  cooking  my  dinner  he  asked  me  if  I 
liked  stories,  and  offered  to  tell  one  in  English,  though  he  added,  it 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  105 

would  be   much   better   if  I   could  follow   the   Gaelic.   Then  he 
began: 

There  were  two  farmers  in  County  Clare.  One  had  a  son,  and 
the  other,  a  fine  rich  man,  had  a  daughter. 

The  young  man  was  wishing  to  marry  the  girl,  and  his  father 
told  him  to  try  and  get  her  if  he  thought  well,  though  a  power  of 
gold  would  be  wanting  to  get  the  like  of  her. 

1  will  try/  said  the  young  man. 

He  put  all  his  gold  into  a  bag.  Then  he  went  over  to  the  other 
farm,  and  threw  in  the  gold  in  front  of  him. 

Is  that  all  gold?'  said  the  father  of  the  girl. 

'All  gold/  said  O'Conor  (the  young  man's  name  was  O'Conor). 

Tt  will  not  weigh  down  my  daughter/  said  the  father. 

'We'll  see  that/  said  O'Conor. 

Then  they  put  them  in  the  scales,  the  daughter  in  one  side  and 
the  gold  in  the  other.  The  girl  went  down  against  the  ground,  so 
O'Conor  took  his  bag  and  went  out  on  the  road. 

As  he  was  going  along  he  came  to  where  there  was  a  little  man, 
and  he  standing  with  his  back  against  the  wall. 

'Where  are  you  going  with  the  bag?'  said  the  little  man. 

'Going  home/  said  O'Conor. 

'Is  it  gold  you  might  be  wanting?'  said  the  man. 

'It  is,  surely/  said  O'Conor. 

'I'll  give  you  what  you  are  wanting/  said  the  man,  'and  we  can 
bargain  in  this  way — you'll  pay  me  back  in  a  year  the  gold  I  give 
you,  or  you'll  pay  me  with  five  pounds  cut  off  your  own  flesh.' 

That  bargain  was  made  between  them.  The  man  gave  a  bag  of 
gold  to  O'Conor,  and  he  went  back  with  it,  and  was  married  to  the 
young  woman. 

They  were  rich  people,  and  he  built  her  a  grand  castle  on  the 
cliffs  of  Clare,  with  a  window  that  looked  out  straight  over  the  wild 
ocean. 

One  day  when  he  went  up  with  his  wife  to  look  out  over  the  wild 
ocean,  he  saw  a  ship  coming  in  on  the  rocks,  and  no  sails  on  her  at 
all.  She  was  wrecked  on  the  rocks,  and  it  was  tea  that  was  in  her, 
and  fine  silk. 

O'Conor  and  his  wife  went  down  to  look  at  the  wreck,  and 
when  the  lady  O'Conor  saw  the  silk  she  said  she  wished  a  dress  of 
it. 


106  J.    M.    SYNGE 

They  got  the  silk  from  the  sailors,  and  when  the  Captain  came 
up  to  get  the  money  for  it,  O'Conor  asked  him  to  come  again  and 
take  his  dinner  with  them.  They  had  a  grand  dinner,  and  they  drank 
after  it,  and  the  Captain  was  tipsy.  While  they  were  still  drinking,  a 
letter  came  to  O'Conor,  and  it  was  in  the  letter  that  a  friend  of  his 
was  dead,  and  that  he  would  have  to  go  away  on  a  long  journey.  As 
he  was  getting  ready  the  Captain  came  to  him. 

'Are  you  fond  of  your  wife?*  said  the  Captain. 

1  am  fond  of  her,'  said  O'Conor. 

'Will  you  make  me  a  bet  of  twenty  guineas  no  man  comes  near 
her  while  you'll  be  away  on  the  journey?'  said  the  Captain. 

1  will  bet  it,'  said  O'Conor;  and  he  went  away. 

There  was  an  old  hag  who  sold  small  things  on  the  road  near  the 
castle,  and  the  lady  O'Conor  allowed  her  to  sleep  up  in  her  room  in 
a  big  box.  The  Captain  went  down  on  the  road  to  the  old  hag. 

'For  how  much  will  you  let  me  sleep  one  night  in  your  box?'  said 
the  Captain. 

'For  no  money  at  all  would  I  do  such  a  thing,'  said  the  hag. 

'For  ten  guineas?'  said  the  Captain. 

'Not  for  ten  guineas,'  said  the  hag. 

'For  twelve  guineas?'  said  the  Captain. 

'Not  for  twelve  guineas,'  said  the  hag. 

'For  fifteen  guineas?'  said  the  Captain. 

'For  fifteen  I  will  do  it,'  said  the  hag. 

Then  she  took  him  up  and  hid  him  in  the  box.  When  night  came 
the  lady  O'Conor  walked  up  into  her  room,  and  the  Captain  watched 
her  through  the  hole  that  was  in  the  box.  He  saw  her  take  off 
her  two  rings  and  put  them  on  a  kind  of  a  board  that  was  over  her 
head  like  a  chimney-piece,  and  take  off  her  clothes,  except  her 
shift,  and  go  up  into  her  bed. 

As  soon  as  she  was  asleep  the  Captain  came  out  of  his  box,  and 
he  had  some  means  of  making  a  light,  for  he  lit  the  candle.  He  went 
over  to  the  bed  where  she  was  sleeping  without  disturbing  her  at  all, 
or  doing  any  bad  thing,  and  he  took  the  two  rings  off  the  board, 
and  blew  out  the  light,  and  went  down  again  into  the  box. 

He  paused  for  a  moment,  and  a  deep  sigh  of  relief  rose  from  the 
men  and  women  who  had  crowded  in  while  the  story  was  going  on, 
till  the  kitchen  was  filled  with  people. 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  107 

As  the  Captain  was  coming  out  of  his  box  the  girls,  who  had  ap- 
peared to  know  no  English,  stopped  their  spinning  and  held  their 
breath  with  expectation. 

The  old  man  went  on — 

When  O'Conor  came  back  the  Captain  met  him,  and  told  him 
that  he  had  been  a  night  in  his  wife's  room,  and  gave  him  the  two 
rings. 

O'Conor  gave  him  the  twenty  guineas  of  the  bet.  Then  he  went 
up  into  the  castle,  and  he  took  his  wife  up  to  look  out  of  the  win- 
dow over  the  wild  ocean.  While  she  was  looking  he  pushed  her 
from  behind,  and  she  fell  down  over  the  cliff  into  the  sea. 

An  old  woman  was  on  the  shore,  and  she  saw  her  falling.  She 
went  down  then  to  the  surf  and  pulled  her  out  all  wet  and  in  great 
disorder,  and  she  took  the  wet  clothes  off  her,  and  put  on  some  old 
rags  belonging  to  herself. 

When  O'Conor  had  pushed  his  wife  from  the  window  he  went 
away  into  the  land. 

After  a  while  the  lady  O'Conor  went  out  searching  for  him,  and 
when  she  had  gone  here  and  there  a  long  time  in  the  country,  she 
heard  that  he  was  reaping  in  a  field  with  sixty  men. 

She  came  to  the  field  and  she  wanted  to  go  in,  but  the  gate-man 
would  not  open  the  gate  for  her.  Then  the  owner  came  by,  and  she 
told  him  her  story.  He  brought  her  in,  and  her  husband  was  there, 
reaping,  but  he  never  gave  any  sign  of  knowing  her.  She  showed 
him  to  the  owner,  and  he  made  the  man  come  out  and  go  with  his 
wife. 

Then  the  lady  O'Conor  took  him  out  on  the  road  where  there 
were  horses,  and  they  rode  away. 

When  they  came  to  the  place  where  O'Conor  had  met  the  little 
man,  he  was  there  on  the  road  before  them. 

'Have  you  my  gold  on  you?'  said  the  man. 

T  have  not,'  said  O'Conor. 

'Then  you'll  pay  me  the  flesh  off  your  body,'  said  the  man. 

They  went  into  a  house,  and  a  knife  was  brought,  and  a  clean 
white  cloth  was  put  on  the  table,  and  O'Conor  was  put  upon  the 
cloth. 

Then  the  little  man  was  going  to  strike  the  lancet  into  him, 
when  says  lady  O'Conor — 

'Have  you  bargained  for  five  pounds  of  flesh?' 


108  J.    M.    SYNGE 

'For  five  pounds  of  flesh,'  said  the  man. 

'Have  you  bargained  for  any  drop  of  his  blood?'  said  lady 
O'Conor. 

'For  no  blood,'  said  the  man. 

'Cut  out  the  flesh,'  said  lady  O'Conor,  'but  if  you  spill  one  drop 
of  his  blood  I'll  put  that  through  you.'  And  she  put  a  pistol  to  his 
head. 

The  little  man  went  away  and  they  saw  no  more  of  him. 

When  they  got  home  to  their  castle  they  made  a  great  supper, 
and  they  invited  the  Captain  and  the  old  hag,  and  the  old  woman 
that  had  pulled  the  lady  O'Conor  out  of  the  sea. 

After  they  had  eaten  well  the  lady  O'Conor  began,  and  she  said 
they  would  all  tell  their  stories.  Then  she  told  how  she  had  been 
saved  from  the  sea,  and  how  she  had  found  her  husband. 

Then  the  old  woman  told  her  story,  the  way  she  had  found  the 
lady  O'Conor  wet,  and  in  great  disorder,  and  had  brought  her  in 
and  put  on  her  some  old  rags  of  her  own. 

The  lady  O'Conor  asked  the  Captain  for  his  story,  but  he  said 
they  would  get  no  story  from  him.  Then  she  took  her  pistol  out  of 
her  pocket,  and  she  put  it  on  the  edge  of  the  table,  and  she  said 
that  any  one  that  would  not  tell  his  story  would  get  a  bullet  into 
him. 

Then  the  Captain  told  the  way  he  had  got  into  the  box,  and 
come  over  to  her  bed  without  touching  her  at  all,  and  had  taken 
away  the  rings. 

Then  the  lady  O'Conor  took  the  pistol  and  shot  the  hag  through 
the  body,  and  they  threw  her  over  the  cliff  into  the  sea. 

That  is  my  story. 

It  gave  me  a  strange  feeling  of  wonder  to  hear  this  illiterate  na- 
tive of  a  wet  rock  in  the  Atlantic  telling  a  story  that  is  so  full  of 
European  associations. 

The  incident  of  the  faithful  wife  takes  us  beyond  Cymbeline  to 
the  sunshine  on  the  Arno,  and  the  gay  company  who  went  out  from 
Florence  to  tell  narratives  of  love.  It  takes  us  again  to  the  low  vine- 
yards of  Wiirzburg  on  the  Main,  where  the  same  tale  was  told  in 
the  middle  ages,  of  the  'Two  Merchants  and  the  Faithful  Wife  of 
Ruprecht  von  Wiirzburg.' 

The  other  portion,  dealing  with  the  pound  of  flesh,  has  a  still 
wider  distribution,  reaching  from  Persia  and  Egypt  to  the  Gesta 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  109 

Romanorum,  and  the  Pecorone  of  Ser  Giovanni,  a  Florentine  no- 
tary. 

The  present  union  of  the  two  tales  has  already  been  found 
among  the  Gaels,  and  there  is  a  somewhat  similar  version  in 
Campbell's  Popular  Tales  of  the  Western  Highlands. 

Michael  walks  so  fast  when  I  am  out  with  him  that  I  cannot  pick 
my  steps,  and  the  sharp-edged  fossils  which  abound  in  the  limestone 
have  cut  my  shoes  to  pieces. 

The  family  held  a  consultation  on  them  last  night,  and  in  the  end 
it  was  decided  to  make  me  a  pair  of  pampooties,  which  I  have 
been  wearing  to-day  among  the  rocks. 

They  consist  simply  of  a  piece  of  raw  cowskin,  with  the  hair  out- 
side, laced  over  the  toe  and  round  the  heel  with  two  ends  of  fishing- 
line  that  work  round  and  are  tied  above  the  instep. 

In  the  evening,  when  they  are  taken  off,  they  are  placed  in  a 
basin  of  water,  as  the  rough  hide  cuts  the  foot  and  stocking  if  it  is 
allowed  to  harden.  For  the  same  reason  the  people  often  step  into 
the  surf  during  the  day,  so  that  their  feet  are  continually  moist. 

At  first  I  threw  my  weight  upon  my  heels,  as  one  does  naturally 
in  a  boot,  and  was  a  good  deal  bruised,  but  after  a  few  hours  I 
learned  the  natural  walk  of  man,  and  could  follow  my  guide  in  any 
portion  of  the  island. 

In  one  district  below  the  cliffs,  towards  the  north,  one  goes  for 
nearly  a  mile  jumping  from  one  rock  to  another  without  a  single 
ordinary  step;  and  here  I  realised  that  toes  have  a  natural  use,  for  I 
found  myself  jumping  towards  any  tiny  crevice  in  the  rock  before 
me,  and  clinging  with  an  eager  grip  in  which  all  the  muscles  of  my 
feet  ached  from  their  exertion. 

The  absence  of  the  heavy  boot  of  Europe  has  preserved  to  these 
people  the  agile  walk  of  the  wild  animal,  while  the  general  sim- 
plicity of  their  lives  has  given  them  many  other  points  of  physical 
perfection.  Their  way  of  life  has  never  been  acted  on  by  anything 
much  more  artificial  than  the  nests  and  burrows  of  the  creatures 
that  live  round  them,  and  they  seem,  in  a  certain  sense,  to  ap- 
proach more  nearly  to  the  finer  types  of  our  aristocracies — who  are 
bred  artificially  to  a  natural  ideal — than  to  the  labourer  or  citizen, 
as  the  wild  horse  resembles  the  thoroughbred  rather  than  the  hack 
or  carthorse.  Tribes  of  the  same  natural  development  are,  per- 
haps, frequent  in  half -civilised  countries,  but  here  a  touch  of  the 


110  J.    M.    SYNGE 

refinement  of  old  societies  is  blended,  with  singular  effect,  among 
the  qualities  of  the  wild  animal. 

While  I  am  walking  with  Michael  some  one  often  comes  to  me 
to  ask  the  time  of  day.  Few  of  the  people,  however,  are  sufficiently 
used  to  modern  time  to  understand  in  more  than  a  vague  way  the 
convention  of  the  hours,  and  when  I  tell  them  what  o'clock  it  is  by 
my  watch  they  are  not  satisfied,  and  ask  how  long  is  left  them  be- 
fore the  twilight. 

The  general  knowledge  of  time  on  the  island  depends,  curiously 
enough,  on  the  direction  of  the  wind.  Nearly  all  the  cottages  are 
built,  like  this  one,  with  two  doors  opposite  each  other,  the  more 
sheltered  of  which  lies  open  all  day  to  give  light  to  the  interior.  If 
the  wind  is  northerly  the  south  door  is  opened,  and  the  shadow  of 
the  door-post  moving  across  the  kitchen  floor  indicates  the  hour; 
as  soon,  however,  as  the  wind  changes  to  the  south  the  other  door 
is  opened,  and  the  people,  who  never  think  of  putting  up  a  primi- 
tive dial,  are  at  a  loss. 

This  system  of  doorways  has  another  curious  result.  It  usually 
happens  that  all  the  doors  on  one  side  of  the  village  pathway  are 
lying  open  with  women  sitting  about  on  the  thresholds,  while  on 
the  other  side  the  doors  are  shut  and  there  is  no  sign  of  life.  The 
moment  the  wind  changes  everything  is  reversed,  and  sometimes 
when  I  come  back  to  the  village  after  an  hour's  walk  there  seems 
to  have  been  a  general  flight  from  one  side  of  the  way  to  the  other. 

In  my  own  cottage  the  change  of  the  doors  alters  the  whole  tone 
of  the  kitchen,  turning  it  from  a  brilliantly-lighted  room  looking  out 
on  a  yard  and  laneway  to  a  sombre  cell  with  a  superb  view  of  the 
sea. 

When  the  wind  is  from  the  north  the  old  woman  manages  my 
meals  with  fair  regularity,  but  on  the  other  days  she  often  makes 
my  tea  at  three  o'clock  instead  of  six.  If  I  refuse  it  she  puts  it  down 
to  simmer  for  three  hours  in  the  turf,  and  then  brings  it  in  at  six 
o'clock  full  of  anxiety  to  know  if  it  is  warm  enough. 

The  old  man  is  suggesting  that  I  should  send  him  a  clock  when  I 
go  away.  He'd  like  to  have  something  from  me  in  the  house,  he  says, 
the  way  they  wouldn't  forget  me,  and  wouldn't  a  clock  be  as  handy 
as  another  thing,  and  they'd  be  thinking  on  me  whenever  they'd 
look  on  its  face. 

The  general  ignorance  of  any  precise  hours  in  the  day  makes  it 
impossible  for  the  people  to  have  regular  meals. 


THE    ARAN   ISLANDS  111 

They  seem  to  eat  together  in  the  evening,  and  sometimes  in  the 
morning,  a  little  after  dawn,  before  they  scatter  for  their  work,  but 
during  the  day  they  simply  drink  a  cup  of  tea  and  eat  a  piece  of 
bread,  or  some  potatoes,  whenever  they  are  hungry. 

For  men  who  live  in  the  open  air  they  eat  strangely  little.  Often 
when  Michael  has  been  out  weeding  potatoes  for  eight  or  nine 
hours  without  food,  he  comes  in  and  eats  a  few  slices  of  home- 
made bread,  and  then  he  is  ready  to  go  out  with  me  and  wander 
for  hours  about  the  island. 

They  use  no  animal  food  except  a  little  bacon  and  salt  fish.  The 
old  woman  says  she  would  be  very  ill  if  she  ate  fresh  meat. 

Some  years  ago,  before  tea,  sugar,  and  flour  had  come  into  gen- 
eral use,  salt  fish  was  much  more  the  staple  article  of  diet  than  at 
present,  and,  I  am  told,  skin  diseases  were  very  common,  though 
they  are  now  rare  on  the  islands. 

No  one  who  has  not  lived  for  weeks  among  these  grey  clouds  and 
seas  can  realise  the  joy  with  which  the  eye  rests  on  the  red  dresses 
of  the  women,  especially  when  a  number  of  them  are  to  be 
found  together,  as  happened  early  this  morning. 

I  heard  that  the  young  cattle  were  to  be  shipped  for  a  fair  on  the 
mainland,  which  is  to  take  place  in  a  few  days,  and  I  went  down 
on  the  pier,  a  little  after  dawn,  to  watch  them. 

The  bay  was  shrouded  in  the  greys  of  coming  rain,  yet  the  thin- 
ness of  the  cloud  threw  a  silvery  light  on  the  sea,  and  an  unusual 
depth  of  blue  to  the  mountains  of  Connemara. 

As  I  was  going  across  the  sandhills  one  dun-sailed  hooker  glided 
slowly  out  to  begin  her  voyage,  and  another  beat  up  to  the  pier. 
Troops  of  red  cattle,  driven  mostly  by  the  women,  were  coming  up 
from  several  directions,  forming,  with  the  green  of  the  long  tract  of 
grass  that  separates  the  sea  from  the  rocks,  a  new  unity  of  colour. 

The  pier  itself  was  crowded  with  bullocks  and  a  great  number  of 
the  people.  I  noticed  one  extraordinary  girl  in  the  throng  who 
seemed  to  exert  an  authority  on  all  who  came  near  her.  Her 
curiously-formed  nostrils  and  narrow  chin  gave  her  a  witch-like  ex- 
pression, yet  the  beauty  of  her  hair  and  skin  made  her  singularly  at- 
tractive. 

When  the  empty  hooker  was  made  fast  its  deck  was  still  many 
feet  below  the  level  of  the  pier,  so  the  animals  were  slung  down 
by  a  rope  from  the  mast-head,  with  much  struggling  and  confusion. 


112  J.    M.    SYNGE 

Some  of  them  made  wild  efforts  to  escape,  nearly  carrying  their 
owners  with  them  into  the  sea,  but  they  were  handled  with  wonder- 
ful dexterity,  and  there  was  no  mishap. 

When  the  open  hold  was  filled  with  young  cattle,  packed  as 
tightly  as  they  could  stand,  the  owners  with  their  wives  or  sisters, 
who  go  with  them  to  prevent  extravagance  in  Galway,  jumped 
down  on  the  deck,  and  the  voyage  .was  begun.  Immediately  after- 
wards a  rickety  old  hooker  beat  up  with  turf  from  Connemara,  and 
while  she  was  unlading  all  the  men  sat  along  the  edge  of  the  pier 
and  made  remarks  upon  the  rottenness  of  her  timber  till  the  own- 
ers grew  wild  with  rage. 

The  tide  was  now  too  low  for  more  boats  to  come  to  the  pier,  so 
a  move  was  made  to  a  strip  of  sand  towards  the  south-east,  where 
the  rest  of  the  cattle  were  shipped  through  the  surf.  Here  the 
hooker  was  anchored  about  eighty  yards  from  the  shore,  and  a 
curagh  was  rowed  round  to  tow  out  the  animals.  Each  bullock  was 
caught  in  its  turn  and  girded  with  a  sling  of  rope  by  which  it  could 
be  hoisted  on  board.  Another  rope  was  fastened  to  the  horns  and 
passed  out  to  a  man  in  the  stern  of  the  curagh.  Then  the  animal  was 
forced  down  through  the  surf  and  out  of  its  depth  before  it  had 
much  time  to  struggle.  Once  fairly  swimming,  it  was  towed  out  to 
the  hooker  and  dragged  on  board  in  a  half-drowned  condition. 

The  freedom  of  the  sand  seemed  to  give  a  stronger  spirit  of  re- 
volt, and  some  of  the  animals  were  only  caught  after  a  dangerous 
struggle.  The  first  attempt  was  not  always  successful,  and  I  saw  one 
three-year-old  lift  two  men  with  his  horns,  and  drag  another  fifty 
yards  along  the  sand  by  his  tail  before  he  was  subdued. 

While  this  work  was  going  on  a  crowd  of  girls  and  women  col- 
lected on  the  edge  of  the  cliff  and  kept  shouting  down  a  confused 
babble  of  satire  and  praise. 

When  I  came  back  to  the  cottage  I  found  that  among  the 
women  who  had  gone  to  the  mainland  was  a  daughter  of  the  old 
woman's,  and  that  her  baby  of  about  nine  months  had  been  left  in 
the  care  of  its  grandmother. 

As  I  came  in  she  was  busy  getting  ready  my  dinner,  and  old  Pat 
Dirane,  who  usually  comes  at  this  hour,  was  rocking  the  cradle.  It 
is  made  of  clumsy  wicker-work,  with  two  pieces  of  rough  wood 
fastened  underneath  to  serve  as  rockers,  and  all  the  time  I  am  in 
my  room  I  can  hear  it  bumping  on  the  floor  with  extraordinary 
violence.  When  the  baby  is  awake  it  sprawls  on  the  floor,  and  the 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  113 

old  woman  sings  it  a  variety  of  inarticulate  lullabies  that  have 
much  musical  charm. 

Another  daughter,  who  lives  at  home,  has  gone  to  the  fair  also, 
so  the  old  woman  has  both  the  baby  and  myself  to  take  care  of  as 
well  as  a  crowd  of  chickens  that  live  in  a  hole  beside  the  fire.  Often 
when  I  want  tea,  or  when  the  old  woman  goes  for  water,  I  have  to 
take  my  own  turn  at  rocking  the  cradle. 

One  of  the  largest  Duns,  or  pagan  forts,  on  the  islands,  is  within 
a  stone's  throw  of  my  cottage,  and  I  often  stroll  up  there  after  a 
dinner  of  eggs  or  salt  pork,  to  smoke  drowsily  on  the  stones.  The 
neighbours  know  my  habit,  and  not  infrequently  some  one  wanders 
up  to  ask  what  news  there  is  in  the  last  paper  I-  have  received,  or  to 
make  inquiries  about  the  American  war.  If  no  one  comes  I  prop 
my  book  open  with  stones  touched  by  the  Fir-bolgs,  and  sleep  for 
hours  in  the  delicious  warmth  of  the  sun.  The  last  few  days  I  have 
almost  lived  on  the  round  walls,  for,  by  some  miscalculation,  our 
turf  has  come  to  an  end,  and  the  fires  are  kept  up  with  dried  cow- 
dung — a  common  fuel  on  the  island — the  smoke  from  which  filters 
through  into  my  room  and  lies  in  blue  layers  above  my  table 
and  bed. 

Fortunately  the  weather  is  fine,  and  I  can  spend  my  days  in  the 
sunshine.  When  I  look  round  from  the  top  of  these  walls  I  can  see 
the  sea  on  nearly  every  side,  stretching  away  to  distant  ranges  of 
mountains  on  the  north  and  south.  Underneath  me  to  the  east 
there  is  the  one  inhabited  district  of  the  island,  where  I  can  see  red 
figures  moving  about  the  cottages,  sending  up  an  occasional  frag- 
ment of  conversation  or  of  old  island  melodies. 

The  baby  is  teething,  and  has  been  crying  for  several  days.  Since 
his  mother  went  to  the  fair  they  have  been  feeding  him  with  cow's 
milk,  often  slightly  sour,  and  giving  him,  I  think,  more  than  he 
requires. 

This  morning,  however,  he  seemed  so  unwell  they  sent  out  to 
look  for  a  foster-mother  in  the  village,  and  before  long  a  young 
woman,  who  lives  a  little  way  to  the  east,  came  in  and  restored  him 
his  natural  food. 

A  few  hours  later,  when  I  came  into  the  kitchen  to  talk  to  old 
Pat,  another  woman  performed  the  same  kindly  office,  this  time  a  per- 
son with  a  curiously  whimsical  expression. 

Pat  told  me  a  story  of  an  unfaithful  wife,  which  I  will  give  fur- 


114  J.    M.    SYNGE 

ther  down,  and  then  broke  into  a  moral  dispute  with  the  visitor, 
which  caused  immense  delight  to  some  young  men  who  had  come 
down  to  listen  to  the  story.  Unfortunately  it  was  carried  on  so 
rapidly  in  Gaelic  that  I  lost  most  of  the  points. 

This  old  man  talks  usually  in  a  mournful  tone  about  his  ill- 
health,  and  his  death,  which  he  feels  to  be  approaching,  yet  he  has 
occasional  touches  of  humour  that  remind  me  of  old  Mourteen  on 
the  north  island.  To-day  a  grotesque  twopenny  doll  was  lying  on 
the  floor  near  the  old  woman.  He  picked  it  up  and  examined  it  as  if 
comparing  it  with  her.  Then  he  held  it  up:  Is  it  you  is  after  bring- 
ing that  thing  into  the  world,'  he  said,  woman  of  the  house?' 

Here  is  the  story:-1 

One  day  I  was  travelling  on  foot  from  Galway  to  Dublin,  and  the 
darkness  came  on  me  and  I  ten  miles  from  the  town  I  was  wanting 
to  pass  the  night  in.  Then  a  hard  rain  began  to  fall  and  I  was  tired 
walking,  so  when  I  saw  a  sort  of  a  house  with  no  roof  on  it  up 
against  the  road,  I  got  in  the  way  the  walls  would  give  me  shelter. 

As  I  was  looking  round  I  saw  a  light  in  some  trees  two  perches 
off,  and  thinking  any  sort  of  a  house  would  be  better  than  where  I 
was,  I  got  over  a  wall  and  went  up  to  the  house  to  look  in  at  the 
window. 

I  saw  a  dead  man  laid  on  a  table,  and  candles  lighted,  and  a 
woman  watching  him.  I  was  frightened  when  I  saw  him,  but  it  was 
raining  hard,  and  I  said  to  myself,  if  he  was  dead  he  couldn't  hurt 
me.  Then  I  knocked  on  the  door  and  the  woman  came  and  opened 
it. 

'Good  evening,  ma'am,'  says  I. 

'Good  evening  kindly,  stranger,'  says  she.  'Come  in  out  of  the 
rain.' 

Then  she  took  me  in  and  told  me  her  husband  was  after  dying  on 
her,  and  she  was  watching  him  that  night. 

'But  it's  thirsty  you'll  be,  stranger/  says  she.  'Come  into  the 
parlour.' 

Then  she  took  me  into  the  parlour — and  it  was  a  fine  clean  house 
— and  she  put  a  cup,  with  a  saucer  under  it,  on  the  table  before 
me  with  fine  sugar  and  bread. 

When  I'd  had  a  cup  of  tea  I  went  back  into  the  kitchen  where 

1  The  story  which  follows  is  the  source  of  Synge's  play,  In  the  Shadow  of  the  Glen. 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  115 

the  dead  man  was  lying,  and  she  gave  me  a  fine  new  pipe  off  tho 
table  with  a  drop  of  spirits. 

'Stranger/  says  she,  would  you  be  afeard  to  be  alone  with  him- 
self?' 

'Not  a  bit  in  the  world,  ma'am,'  says  I;  'he  that's  dead  can  do  no 
hurt.' 

Then  she  said  she  wanted  to  go  over  and  tell  the  neighbours  the 
way  her  husband  was  after  dying  on  her,  and  she  went  out  and 
locked  the  door  behind  her. 

I  smoked  one  pipe,  and  I  leaned  out  and  took  another  off  the 
table.  I  was  smoking  it  with  my  hand  on  the  back  of  my  chair — the 
way  you  are  yourself  this  minute,  God  bless  you — and  I  looking  on 
the  dead  man,  when  he  opened  his  eyes  as  wide  as  myself  and 
looked  at  me. 

'Don't  be  afraid,  stranger,'  said  the  dead  man;  I'm  not  dead  at 
all  in  the  world.  Come  here  and  help  me  up  and  I'll  tell  you  all  about 
it/ 

Well,  I  went  up  and  took  the  sheet  off  of  him,  and  I  saw  that  he 
had  a  fine  clean  shirt  on  his  body,  and  fine  flannel  drawers. 

He  sat  up  then,  and  says  he — 

'I've  got  a  bad  wife,  stranger,  and  I  let  on  to  be  dead  the  way  I'd 
catch  her  goings  on/ 

Then  he  got  two  fine  sticks  he  had  to  keep  down  his  wife,  and  he 
put  them  at  each  side  of  his  body,  and  he  laid  himself  out  again  as 
if  he  was  dead. 

In  half  an  hour  his  wife  came  back  and  a  young  man  along  with 
her.  Well,  she  gave  him  his  tea,  and  she  told  him  he  was  tired,  and 
he  would  do  right  to  go  and  lie  down  in  the  bedroom. 

The  young  man  went  in  and  the  woman  sat  down  to  watch  by 
the  dead  man.  A  while  after  she  got  up  and  'Stranger,'  says  she, 
I'm  going  in  to  get  the  candle  out  of  the  room;  I'm  thinking  the 
young  man  will  be  asleep  by  this  time/  She  went  into  the  bedroom, 
but  the  divil  a  bit  of  her  came  back. 

Then  the  dead  man  got  up,  and  he  took  one  stick,  and  he  gave 
the  other  to  myself.  We  went  in  and  saw  them  lying  together  with 
her  head  on  his  arm. 

The  dead  man  hit  him  a  blow  with  the  stick  so  that  the  blood 
out  of  him  leapt  up  and  hit  the  gallery. 

That  is  my  story. 


116  J.    M.    SYNGE 

In  stories  of  this  kind  he  always  speaks  in  the  first  person,  with 
minute  details  to  show  that  he  was  actually  present  at  the  scenes 
that  are  described. 

At  the  beginning  of  this  story  he  gave  me  a  long  account  of 
what  had  made  him  be  on  his  way  to  Dublin  on  that  occasion,  and 
told  me  about  all  the  rich  people  he  was  going  to  see  in  the  finest 
streets  of  the  city. 

A  week  of  sweeping  fogs  has  passed  over  and  given  me  a 
strange  sense  of  exile  and  desolation.  I  walk  round  the  island  nearly 
every  day,  yet  I  can  see  nothing  anywhere  but  a  mass  of  wet 
rock,  a  strip  of  surf,  and  then  a  tumult  of  waves. 

The  slaty  limestone  has  grown  black  with  the  water  that  is  drip- 
ping on  it,  and  wherever  I  turn  there  is  the  same  grey  obsession 
twining  and  wreathing  itself  among  the  narrow  fields,  and  the  same 
wail  from  the  wind  that  shrieks  and  whistles  in  the  loose  rubble  of 
the  walls. 

At  first  the  people  do  not  give  much  attention  to  the  wilderness 
that  is  round  them,  but  after  a  few  days  their  voices  sink  in  the 
kitchen,  and  their  endless  talk  of  pigs  and  cattle  falls  to  the 
whisper  of  men  who  are  telling  stories  in  a  haunted  house. 

The  rain  continues;  but  this  evening  a  number  of  young  men 
were  in  the  kitchen  mending  nets,  and  the  bottle  of  poteen  was 
drawn  from  its  hiding-place. 

One  cannot  think  of  these  people  drinking  wine  on  the  summit 
of  this  crumbling  precipice,  but  their  grey  poteen,  which  brings  a 
shock  of  joy  to  the  blood,  seems  predestined  to  keep  sanity  in  men 
who  live  forgotten  in  these  worlds  of  mist. 

I  sat  in  the  kitchen  part  of  the  evening  to  feel  the  gaiety  that 
was  rising,  and  when  I  came  into  my  own  room  after  dark,  one  of 
the  sons  came  in  every  time  the  bottle  made  its  round,  to  pour  me 
out  my  share. 

It  has  cleared,  and  the  sun  is  shining  with  a  luminous  warmth 
that  makes  the  whole  island  glisten  with  the  splendour  of  a  gem, 
and  fills  the  sea  and  sky  with  a  radiance  of  blue  light. 

I  have  come  out  to  lie  on  the  rocks  where  I  have  the  black  edge 
of  the  north  island  in  front  of  me,  Galway  Bay,  too  blue  almost  to 
look  at,  on  my  right,  the  Atlantic  on  my  left,  a  perpendicular  cliff 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  117 

under  my  ankles,  and  over  me  innumerable  gulls  that  chase  each 
other  in  a  white  cirrus  of  wings. 

A  nest  of  hooded  crows  is  somewhere  near  me,  and  one  of  the 
old  birds  is  trying  to  drive  me  away  by  letting  itself  fall  like  a  stone 
every  few  moments,  from  about  forty  yards  above  me  to  within 
reach  of  my  hand. 

Gannets  are  passing  up  and  down  above  the  sound,  swooping  at 
times  after  a  mackerel,  and  further  off  I  can  see  the  whole  fleet  of 
hookers  coming  out  from  Kilronan  for  a  night's  fishing  in  the  deep 
water  to  the  west. 

As  I  lie  here  hour  after  hour,  I  seem  to  enter  into  the  wild  pas- 
times of  the  cliff,  and  to  become  a  companion  of  the  cormorants 
and  crows. 

Many  of  the  birds  display  themselves  before  me  with  the  vanity 
of  barbarians,  performing  in  strange  evolutions  as  long  as  I  am  in 
sight,  and  returning  to  their  ledge  of  rock  when  I  am  gone.  Some 
are  wonderfully  expert,  and  cut  graceful  figures  for  an  inconceiva- 
ble time  without  a  flap  of  their  wings,  growing  so  absorbed  in 
their  own  dexterity  that  they  often  collide  with  one  another  in  their 
flight,  an  incident  always  followed  by  a  wild  outburst  of  abuse. 
Their  language  is  easier  than  Gaelic,  and  I  seem  to  understand  the 
greater  part  of  their  cries,  though  I  am  not  able  to  answer.  There  is 
one  plaintive  note  which  they  take  up  in  the  middle  of  their  usual 
babble  with  extraordinary  effect,  and  pass  on  from  one  to  another 
along  the  cliff  with  a  sort  of  an  inarticulate  wail,  as  if  they  remem- 
bered for  an  instant  the  horror  of  the  mist. 

On  the  low  sheets  of  rock  to  the  east  I  can  see  a  number  of  red 
and  grey  figures  hurrying  about  their  work.  The  continual  passing  in 
this  island  between  the  misery  of  last  night  and  the  splendour  of 
to-day,  seems  to  create  an  affinity  between  the  moods  of  these  peo- 
ple and  the  moods  of  varying  rapture  and  dismay  that  are  frequent 
in  artists,  and  in  certain  forms  of  alienation.  Yet  it  is  only  in  the  in- 
tonation of  a  few  sentences  or  some  old  fragment  of  melody  that  I 
catch  the  real  spirit  of  the  island,  for  in  general  the  men  sit  to- 
gether and  talk  with  endless  iteration  of  the  tides  and  fish,  and  of  the 
price  of  kelp  in  Connemara. 

After  Mass  this  morning  an  old  woman  was  buried.  She  lived  in 
the  cottage  next  mine,  and  more  than  once  before  noon  I  heard 
a  faint  echo  of  the  keen.  I  did  not  go  to  the  wake  for  fear  my 


118  J.    M.    SYNGE 

presence  might  jar  upon  the  mourners,  but  all  last  evening  I  could 
hear  the  strokes  of  a  hammer  in  the  yard,  where,  in  the  middle  of  a 
little  crowd  of  idlers,  the  next  of  kin  laboured  slowly  at  the  cof- 
fin. To-day,  before  the  hour  for  the  funeral,  poteen1  was  served  to  a 
number  of  men  who  stood  about  upon  the  road,  and  a  portion  was 
brought  to  me  in  my  room.  Then  the  coffin  was  carried  out  sewn 
loosely  in  sailcloth,  and  held  near  the  ground  by  three  cross-poles 
lashed  upon  the  top.  As  we  moved  down  to  the  low  eastern  portion 
of  the  island,  nearly  all  the  men,  and  ail  the  oldest  women,  wearing 
petticoats  over  their  heads,  came  out  and  joined  in  the  procession. 

While  the  grave  was  being  opened  the  women  sat  down  among 
the  flat  tombstones,  bordered  with  a  pale  fringe  of  early  bracken, 
and  began  the  wild  keen,  or  crying  for  the  dead.  Each  old  woman, 
as  she  took  her  turn  in  the  leading  recitative,  seemed  possessed  for 
the  moment  with  a  profound  ecstasy  of  grief,  swaying  to  and  fro, 
and  bending  her  forehead  to  the  stone  before  her,  while  she  called 
out  to  the  dead  with  a  perpetually  recurring  chant  of  sobs. 

All  round  the  graveyard  other  wrinkled  women,  looking  out  from 
under  the  deep  red  petticoats  that  cloaked  them,  rocked  themselves 
with  the  same  rhythm,  and  intoned  the  inarticulate  chant  that  is 
sustained  by  all  as  an  accompaniment. 

The  morning  had  been  beautifully  fine,  but  as  they  lowered  the 
coffin  into  the  grave,  thunder  rumbled  overhead  and  hailstones 
hissed  among  the  bracken. 

In  Inishmaan  one  is  forced  to  believe  in  a  sympathy  between 
man  and  nature,  and  at  this  moment  when  the  thunder  sounded  a 
death-peal  of  extraordinary  grandeur  above  the  voices  of  the 
women,  I  could  see  the  faces  near  me  stiff  and  drawn  with  emotion. 

When  the  coffin  was  in  the  grave,  and  the  thunder  had  rolled 
away  across  the  hills  of  Clare,  the  keen  broke  out  again  more  pas- 
sionately than  before. 

This  grief  of  the  keen  is  no  personal  complaint  for  the  death  of 
one  woman  over  eighty  years,  but  seems  to  contain  the  whole  pas- 
sionate rage  that  lurks  somewhere  in  every  native  of  the  island.  In 
this  cry  of  pain  the  inner  consciousness  of  the  people  seems  to  lay 
itself  bare  for  an  instant,  and  to  reveal  the  mood  of  beings  who  feel 
their  isolation  in  the  face  of  a  universe  that  wars  on  them  with 
winds  and  seas.  They  are  usually  silent,  but  in  the  presence  of  death 
all  outward  show  of  indifference  or  patience  is  forgotten,  and  they 

1  Illegally  distilled  whiskey. 


THE   ARAN    ISLANDS  119 

shriek  with  pitiable  despair  before  the  horror  of  the  fate  to  which 
they  all  are  doomed. 

Before  they  covered  the  coffin  an  old  man  kneeled  down  by  the 
grave  and  repeated  a  simple  prayer  for  the  dead. 

There  was  an  irony  in  these  words  of  atonement  and  Catholic 
belief  spoken  by  voices  that  were  still  hoarse  with  the  cries  of 
pagan  desperation. 

A  little  beyond  the  grave  I  saw  a  line  of  old  women  who  had  re- 
cited in  the  keen  sitting  in  the  shadow  of  a  wall  beside  the  roofless 
shell  of  the  church.  They  were  still  sobbing  and  shaken  with 
grief,  yet  they  were  beginning  to  talk  again  of  the  daily  trifles  that 
veil  from  them  the  terror  of  the  world. 

When  we  had  all  come  out  of  the  graveyard,  and  two  men  had 
rebuilt  the  hole  in  the  wall  through  which  the  coffin  had  been  car- 
ried in,  we  walked  back  to  the  village,  talking  of  anything,  and  jok- 
ing of  anything,  as  if  merely  coming  from  the  boat-slip,  or  the  pier. 

One  man  told  me  of  the  poteen  drinking  that  takes  place  at 
some  funerals. 

'A  while  since,'  he  said,  'there  were  two  men  fell  down  in  the 
graveyard  while  the  drink  was  on  them.  The  sea  was  rough  that 
day,  the  way  no  one  could  go  to  bring  the  doctor,  and  one  of  the 
men  never  woke  again,  and  found  death  that  night.' 

The  other  day  the  men  of  this  house  made  a  new  field.  There 
was  a  slight  bank  of  earth  under  the  wall  of  the  yard,  and  another 
in  the  corner  of  the  cabbage  garden.  The  old  man  and  his  eldest  son 
dug  out  the  clay,  with  the  care  of  men  working  in  a  gold-mine,  and 
Michael  packed  it  in  panniers — there  are  no  wheeled  vehicles  on 
this  island — for  transport  to  a  flat  rock  in  a  sheltered  corner  of  their 
holding,  where  it  was  mixed  with  sand  and  seaweed  and  spread  out 
in  a  layer  upon  the  stone. 

Most  of  the  potato-growing  of  the  island  is  carried  on  in  fields  of 
this  sort — for  which  the  people  pay  a  considerable  rent — and  if  the 
season  is  at  all  dry,  their  hope  of  a  fair  crop  is  nearly  always  disap- 
pointed. 

It  is  now  nine  days  since  rain  has  fallen,  and  the  people  are  filled 
with  anxiety,  although  the  sun  has  not  yet  been  hot  enough  to  do 
harm. 

The  drought  is  also  causing  a  scarcity  of  water.  There  are  a  few 
springs  on  this  side  of  the  island,  but  they  come  only  from  a  little 


120  J.    M.    SYNGk* 

distance,  and  in  hot  weather  are  not  to  be  relied  on.  The  supply  for 
this  house  is  carried  up  in  a  water-barrel  by  one  of  the  women.  If 
it  is  drawn  off  at  once  it  is  not  very  nauseous,  but  if  it  has  lain,  as  it 
often  does,  for  some  hours  in  the  barrel,  the  smell,  colour,  and  taste 
are  unendurable.  The  water  for  washing  is  also  coming  short,  and 
as  I  walk  round  the  edges  of  the  sea,  I  often  come  on  a  girl  with 
her  petticoats  tucked  up  round  her,  standing  in  a  pool  left  by  the 
tide  and  washing  her  flannels  among  the  sea-anemones  and  crabs. 
Their  red  bodices  and  white  tapering  legs  make  them  as  beautiful 
as  tropical  sea-birds,  as  they  stand  in  a  frame  of  seaweeds  against 
the  brink  of  the  Atlantic.  Michael,  however,  is  a  little  uneasy 
when  they  are  in  sight,  and  I  cannot  pause  to  watch  them.  This 
habit  of  using  the  sea  water  for  washing  causes  a  good  deal  of 
rheumatism  on  the  island,  for  the  salt  lies  in  the  clothes  and  keeps 
them  continually  moist. 

The  people  have  taken  advantage  of  this  dry  moment  to  begin 
the  burning  of  the  kelp,1  and  all  the  islands  are  lying  in  a  volume 
of  grey  smoke.  There  will  not  be  a  very  large  quantity  this  year,  as 
the  people  are  discouraged  by  the  uncertainty  of  the  market,  and 
do  not  care  to  undertake  the  task  of  manufacture  without  a  cer- 
tainty of  profit. 

The  work  needed  to  form  a  ton  of  kelp  is  considerable.  The  sea- 
weed is  collected  from  the  rocks  after  the  storms  of  autumn  and 
winter,  dried  on  fine  days,  and  then  made  up  into  a  rick,  where  it  is 
left  till  the  beginning  of  June. 

It  is  then  burnt  in  low  kilns  on  the  shore,  an  affair  that  takes 
from  twelve  to  twenty-four  hours  of  continuous  hard  work, 
though  I  understand  the  people  here  do  not  manage  well  and  spoil 
a  portion  of  what  they  produce  by  burning  it  more  than  is  required. 

The  kiln  holds  about  two  tons  of  molten  kelp,  and  when  full  it 
is  loosely  covered  with  stones,  and  left  to  cool.  In  a  few  days  the 
substance  is  as  hard  as  the  limestone,  and  has  to  be  broken  with 
crowbars  before  it  can  be  placed  in  curaghs  for  transport  to 
Kilronan,  where  it  is  tested  to  determine  the  amount  of  iodine  it 
contains,  and  is  paid  for  accordingly.  In  former  years  good  kelp 
would  bring  seven  pounds  a  ton,  now  four  pounds  are  not  always 
reached. 

In  Aran  even  manufacture  is  of  interest.  The  low  flame-edged 
kiln,  sending  out  dense  clouds  of  creamy  smoke,  with  a  band  of 

1  Seaweeds  which  are  burnt  for  the  sake  of  the  substances  found  in  the  ashes.  N.E.D. 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  121 

red  and  grey  clothed  workers  moving  in  the  haze,  and  usually  some 
petticoated  boys  and  women  who  come  down  with  drink,  forms  a 
scene  with  as  much  variety  and  colour  as  any  picture  from  the 
East. 

The  men  feel  in  a  certain  sense  the  distinction  of  their  island, 
and  show  me  their  work  with  pride.  One  of  them  said  to  me  yes- 
terday, I'm  thinking  you  never  saw  the  like  of  this  work  before 
this  day?' 

'That  is  true,'  I  answered,  '  I  never  did.' 

'Bedad,  then,'  he  said,  'isn't  it  a  great  wonder  that  you've  seen 
France  and  Germany,  and  the  Holy  Father,  and  never  seen  a  man 
making  kelp  till  you  come  to  Inishmaan.' 

All  the  horses  from  this  island  are  put  out  on  grass  among  the 
hills  of  Connemara  from  June  to  the  end  of  September,  as  there  is 
no  grazing  here  during  the  summer. 

Their  shipping  and  transport  is  even  more  difficult  than  that  of 
the  horned  cattle.  Most  of  them  are  wild  Connemara  ponies,  and 
their  great  strength  and  timidity  make  them  hard  to  handle  on  the 
narrow  pier,  while  in  the  hooker  itself  it  is  not  easy  to  get  them 
safely  on  their  feet  in  the  small  space  that  is  available.  They  are 
dealt  with  in  the  same  way  as  the  bullocks  I  have  spoken  of  al- 
ready, but  the  excitement  becomes  much  more  intense,  and  the 
storm  of  Gaelic  that  rises  the  moment  a  horse  is  shoved  from  the 
pier,  till  it  is  safely  in  its  place,  is  indescribable.  Twenty  boys  and 
men  howl  and  scream  with  agitation,  cursing  and  exhorting,  with- 
out knowing,  most  of  the  time,  what  they  are  saying. 

Apart,  however,  from  this  primitive  babble,  the  dexterity  and 
power  of  the  men  are  displayed  to  more  advantage  than  in  any- 
thing I  have  seen  hitherto.  I  noticed  particularly  the  owner  of  a 
hooker  from  the  north  island  that  was  loaded  this  morning.  He 
seemed  able  to  hold  up  a  horse  by  his  single  weight  when  it  was 
swinging  from  the  masthead,  and  preserved  a  humorous  calm  even 
in  moments  of  the  wildest  excitement.  Sometimes  a  large  mare 
would  come  down  sideways  on  the  backs  of  the  other  horses,  and 
kick  there  till  the  hold  seemed  to  be  filled  with  a  mass  of  struggling 
centaurs,  for  the  men  themselves  often  leap  down  to  try  and  save 
the  foals  from  injury.  The  backs  of  the  horses  put  in  first  are  often 
a  good  deal  cut  by  the  shoes  of  the  others  that  arrive  on  top  of 
them,  but  otherwise  they  do  not  seem  to  be  much  the  worse,  and  as 


122  J.    M.    SYNGE 

they  are  not  on  their  way  to  a  fair,  it  is  not  of  much  consequence  in 
what  condition  they  come  to  land. 

There  is  only  one  bit  and  saddle  in  the  island,  which  are  used  by 
the  priest,  who  rides  from  the  chapel  to  the  pier  when  he  has  held 
the  service  on  Sunday. 

The  islanders  themselves  ride  with  a  simple  halter  and  a  stick, 
yet  sometimes  travel,  at  least  in  the  larger  island,  at  a  desperate 
gallop.  As  the  horses  usually  have  panniers,  the  rider  sits  sideways 
over  the  withers,  and  if  the  panniers  are  empty  they  go  at  full 
speed  in  this  position  without  anything  to  hold  to. 

More  than  once  in  Aranmor  I  met  a  party  going  out  west  with 
empty  panniers  from  Kilronan.  Long  before  they  came  in  sight  I 
could  hear  a  clatter  of  hoofs,  and  then  a  whirl  of  horses  would 
come  round  a  corner  at  full  gallop  with  their  heads  out,  utterly  in- 
different to  the  slender  halter  that  is  their  only  check.  They  gen- 
erally travel  in  single  file  with  a  few  yards  between  them,  and  as 
there  is  no  traffic  there  is  little  fear  of  an  accident. 

Sometimes  a  woman  and  a  man  ride  together,  but  in  this  case  the 
man  sits  in  the  usual  position,  and  the  woman  sits  sideways  behind 
him,  and  holds  him  round  the  waist. 

Old  Pat  Dirane  continues  to  come  up  every  day  to  talk  to  me, 
and  at  times  I  turn  the  conversation  to  his  experiences  of  the 
fairies. 

He  has  seen  a  good  many  of  them,  he  says,  in  different  parts  of 
the  island,  especially  in  the  sandy  districts  north  of  the  slip.  They  are 
about  a  yard  high  with  caps  like  the  peelers' 1  pulled  down  over 
their  faces.  On  one  occasion  he  saw  them  playing  ball  in  the  eve- 
ning just  above  the  slip,  and  he  says  I  must  avoid  that  place  in  the 
morning  or  after  nightfall  for  fear  they  might  do  me  mischief. 

He  has  seen  two  women  who  were  'away'  with  them,  one  a 
young  married  woman,  the  other  a  girl.  The  woman  was  standing 
by  a  wall,  at  a  spot  he  described  to  me  with  great  care,  looking  out 
towards  the  north. 

Another  night  he  heard  a  voice  crying  out  in  Irish,  'mhaihair  td 
me  marblfi  ('O  mother,  I'm  killed'),  and  in  the  morning  there 
was  blood  on  the  wall  of  his  house,  and  a  child  in  a  house  not  far 
off  was  dead. 

1  Policemen  so  called  after  their  founder  Sir  Robert  Peel. 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  123 

Yesterday  he  took  me  aside,  and  said  he  would  tell  me  a  secret  he 
had  never  yet  told  to  any  person  in  the  world. 

'Take  a  sharp  needle/  he  said,  'and  stick  it  in  under  the  collar  of 
your  coat,  and  not  one  of  them  will  be  able  to  have  power  on 
you/ 

Iron  is  a  common  talisman  with  barbarians,  but  in  this  case  the 
idea  of  exquisite  sharpness  was  probably  present  also,  and,  per- 
haps, some  feeling  for  the  sanctity  of  the  instrument  of  toil,  a  folk- 
belief  that  is  common  in  Brittany. 

The  fairies  are  more  numerous  in  Mayo  than  in  any  other  coun- 
ty, though  they  are  fond  of  certain  districts  in  Galway,  where  the 
following  story  is  said  to  have  taken  place. 

'A  farmer  was  in  great  distress  as  his  crops  had  failed,  and  his 
cow  had  died  on  him.  One  night  he  told  his  wife  to  make  him  a  fine 
new  sack  for  flour  before  the  next  morning;  and  when  it  was  finished 
he  started  off  with  it  before  the  dawn. 

'At  that  time  there  was  a  gentleman  who  had  been  taken  by  the 
fairies,  and  made  an  officer  among  them,  and  it  was  often  people 
would  see  him  and  her  riding  on  a  white  horse  at  dawn  and  in  the 
evening. 

'The  poor  man  went  down  to  the  place  where  they  used  to  see 
the  officer,  and  when  he  came  by  on  his  horse,  he  asked  the  loan  of 
two  hundred  and  a  half  of  flour,  for  he  was  in  great  want. 

'The  officer  called  the  fairies  out  of  a  hole  in  the  rocks  where 
they  stored  their  wheat,  and  told  them  to  give  the  poor  man  what 
he  was  asking.  Then  he  told  him  to  come  back  and  pay  him  in  a 
year,  and  rode  away. 

'When  the  poor  man  got  home  he  wrote  down  the  day  on  a 
piece  of  paper,  and  that  day  year  he  came  back  and  paid  the  officer/ 

When  he  had  ended  his  story  the  old  man  told  me  that  the  fairies 
have  a  tenth  of  all  the  produce  of  the  country,  and  make  stores  of  it 
in  the  rocks. 

It  is  a  Holy  Day,  and  I  have  come  up  to  sit  on  the  Dun  while  the 
people  are  at  Mass. 

A  strange  tranquillity  has  come  over  the  island  this  morning,  as 
happens  sometimes  on  Sunday,  filling  the  two  circles  of  sea  and 
sky  with  the  quiet  of  a  church. 

The  one  landscape  that  is  here  lends  itself  with  singular  power  to 


124  J.    M.    SYNGE 

this  suggestion  of  grey  luminous  cloud.  There  is  no  wind,  and  no  def- 
inite light.  Aranmor  seems  to  sleep  upon  a  mirror,  and  the  hills 
of  Connemara  look  so  near  that  I  am  troubled  by  the  width  of 
the  bay  that  lies  before  them,  touched  this  morning  with  individual 
expression  one  sees  sometimes  in  a  lake. 

On  these  rocks,  where  there  is  no  growth  of  vegetable  or  animal 
life,  all  the  seasons  are  the  same,  and  this  June  day  is  so  full  of  au- 
tumn that  I  listen  unconsciously  for  the  rustle  of  dead  leaves. 

The  first  group  of  men  are  coming  out  of  the  chapel,  followed  by 
a  crowd  of  women,  who  divide  at  the  gate  and  troop  off  in  differ- 
ent directions,  while  the  men  linger  on  the  road  to  gossip. 

The  silence  is  broken;  I  can  hear  far  off,  as  if  over  water,  a  faint 
murmur  of  Gaelic. 

In  the  afternoon  the  sun  came  out  and  I  was  rowed  over  for  a 
visit  to  Kilronan. 

As  my  men  were  bringing  round  the  curagh  to  take  me  off  a 
headland  near  the  pier,  they  struck  a  sunken  rock,  and  came  ashore 
shipping  a  quantity  of  water.  They  plugged  the  hole  with  a  piece  of 
sacking  torn  from  a  bag  of  potatoes  they  were  taking  over  for  the 
priest,  and  we  set  off  with  nothing  but  a  piece  of  torn  canvas  be- 
tween us  and  the  Atlantic. 

Every  few  hundred  yards  one  of  the  rowers  had  to  stop  and  bail, 
but  the  hole  did  not  increase. 

When  we  were  about  half  way  across  the  sound  we  met  a 
curagh  coming  towards  us  with  its  sails  set.  After  some  shouting 
in  Gaelic,  I  learned  that  they  had  a  packet  of  letters  and  tobacco 
for  myself.  We  sidled  up  as  near  as  was  possible  with  the  roll,  and 
my  goods  were  thrown  to  me  wet  with  spray. 

After  my  weeks  in  Inishmaan,  Kilronan  seemed  an  imposing  cen- 
tre of  activity.  The  half-civilised  fishermen  of  the  larger  island  are 
inclined  to  despise  the  simplicity  of  the  life  here,  and  some  of 
them  who  were  standing  about  when  I  landed  asked  me  how  at  all  I 
passed  my  time  with  no  decent  fishing  to  be  looking  at. 

I  turned  in  for  a  moment  to  talk  to  the  old  couple  in  the  hotel, 
and  then  moved  on  to  pay  some  other  visits  in  the  village. 

Later  in  the  evening  I  walked  out  along  the  northern  road, 
where  I  met  many  of  the  natives  of  the  outlying  villages,  who  had 
come  down  to  Kilronan  for  the  Holy  Day,  and  were  now  wandering 
home  in  scattered  groups. 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  125 

The  women  and  girls,  when  they  had  no  men  with  them,  usually 
tried  to  make  fun  with  me. 

Is  it  tired  you  are,  stranger?'  said  one  girl.  I  was  walking  very 
slowly,  to  pass  the  time  before  my  return  to  the  east. 

'Bedad,  it  is  not,  little  girl,'  I  answered  in  Gaelic,  'it  is  lonely  I 
am.' 

'Here  is  my  little  sister,  stranger,  who  will  give  you  her  arm.' 

And  so  it  went.  Quiet  as  these  woman  are  on  ordinary  occasions, 
when  two  or  three  of  them  are  gathered  together  in  their  holiday 
petticoats  and  shawls,  they  are  as  wild  and  capricious  as  the  women 
who  live  in  towns. 

About  seven  o'clock  I  got  back  to  Kilronan,  and  beat  up  my 
crew  from  the  public-houses  near  the  bay.  With  their  usual  care- 
lessness they  had  not  seen  to  the  leak  in  the  curagh,  nor  to  an  oar 
that  was  losing  the  brace  that  holds  it  to  the  toll-pin,  and  we 
moved  off  across  the  sound  at  an  absurd  pace  with  a  deepening 
pool  at  our  feet. 

A  superb  evening  light  was  lying  over  the  island,  which  made 
me  rejoice  at  our  delay.  Looking  back  there  was  a  golden  haze  be- 
hind the  sharp  edges  of  the  rock,  and  a  long  wake  from  the  sun, 
which  was  making  jewels  of  the  bubbling  left  by  the  oars. 

The  men  had  had  their  share  of  porter  and  were  unusually  volu- 
ble, pointing  out  things  to  me  that  I  had  already  seen,  and  stopping 
now  and  then  to  make  me  notice  the  oily  smell  of  mackerel  that 
was  rising  from  the  waves. 

They  told  me  that  an  evicting  party  is  coming  to  the  island  to- 
morrow morning,  and  gave  me  a  long  account  of  what  they  make 
and  spend  in  a  year,  and  of  their  trouble  with  the  rent. 

'The  rent  is  hard  enough  for  a  poor  man,'  said  one  of  them,  'but 
this  time  we  didn't  pay,  and  they're  after  serving  processes  on 
every  one  of  us.  A  man  will  have  to  pay  his  rent  now,  and  a  power 
of  money  with  it  for  the  process,  and  I'm  thinking  the  agent  will 
have  money  enough  out  of  them  processes  to  pay  for  his  servant- 
girl  and  his  man  all  the  year.' 

I  asked  afterwards  who  the  island  belonged  to. 

'Bedad,'  they  said,  'we've  always  heard  it  belonged  to  Miss , 

and  she  is  dead.' 

When  the  sun  passed  like  a  lozenge  of  gold  flame  into  the  sea 
the  cold  became  intense.  Then  the  men  began  to  talk  among  them- 


126  J.    M.    SYNGE 

selves,  and  losing  the  thread,  I  lay  half  in  a  dream  looking  at  the 
pale  oily  sea  about  us,  and  the  low  cliffs  of  the  island  sloping  up 
past  the  village  with  its  wreath  of  smoke  to  the  outline  of  Dun 
Conor. 

Old  Pat  was  in  the  house  when  I  arrived,  and  he  told  a  long  story 
after  supper: 

There  was  once  a  widow  living  among  the  woods,  and  her  only 
son  living  along  with  her.  He  went  out  every  morning  through  the 
trees  to  get  sticks,  and  one  day  as  he  was  lying  on  the  ground  he 
saw  a  swarm  of  flies  flying  over  what  the  cow  leaves  behind  her. 
He  took  up  his  sickle  and  hit  one  blow  at  them,  and  hit  that  hard 
he  left  no  single  one  of  them  living. 

That  evening  he  said  to  his  mother  that  it  was  time  he  was  going 
out  into  the  world  to  seek  his  fortune,  for  he  was  able  to  destroy 
a  whole  swarm  of  flies  at  one  blow,  and  he  asked  her  to  make  him 
three  cakes  the  way  he  might  take  them  with  him  in  the  morning. 

He  started  the  next  day  a  while  after  the  dawn,  with  his  three 
cakes  in  his  wallet,  and  he  ate  one  of  them  near  ten  o'clock. 

He  got  hungry  again  by  midday  and  ate  the  second,  and  when 
night  was  coming  on  him  he  ate  the  third.  After  that  he  met  a  man 
on  the  road  who  asked  him  where  he  was  going. 

I'm  looking  for  some  place  where  I  can  work  for  my  living,'  said 
the  young  man. 

'Come  with  me,'  said  the  other  man,  'and  sleep  tonight  in  the 
barn,  and  I'll  give  you  work  to-morrow  to  see  what  you're  able  for.' 

The  next  morning  the  farmer  brought  him  out  and  showed  him 
his  cows  and  told  him  to  take  them  out  to  graze  on  the  hills,  and  to 
keep  good  watch  that  no  one  should  come  near  them  to  milk  them. 
The  young  man  drove  out  the  cows  into  the  fields,  and  when  the  heat 
of  the  day  came  on  he  lay  down  on  his  back  and  looked  up  into  the 
sky.  A  while  after  he  saw  a  black  spot  in  the  north-west,  and  it  grew 
larger  and  nearer  till  he  saw  a  great  giant  coming  towards  him. 

He  got  up  on  to  his  feet  and  he  caught  the  giant  round  the  legs 
with  his  two  arms,  and  he  drove  him  down  into  the  hard  ground 
above  his  ankles,  the  way  he  was  not  able  to  free  himself.  Then  the 
giant  told  him  to  do  him  no  hurt,  and  gave  him  his  magic  rod,  and 
told  him  to  strike  on  the  rock,  and  he  would  find  his  beautiful  black 
horse,  and  his  sword  and  his  fine  suit. 

The  young  man  struck  the  rock  and  it  opened  before  him,  and  he 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  127 

found  the  beautiful  black  horse,  and  the  giant's  sword  and  the  suit 
lying  before  him.  He  took  out  the  sword  alone,  and  he  struck  one 
blow  with  it  and  struck  off  the  giant's  head.  Then  he  put  back  the 
sword  into  the  rock,  and  went  out  again  to  his  cattle,  till  it  was 
time  to  drive  them  home  to  the  farmer. 

When  they  came  to  milk  the  cows  they  found  a  power  of  milk  in 
them,  and  the  farmer  asked  the  young  man  if  he  had  seen  nothing 
out  on  the  hills,  for  the  other  cow-boys  had  been  bringing  home 
the  cows  with  no  drop  of  milk  in  them.  And  the  young  man  said 
he  had  seen  nothing. 

The  next  day  he  went  out  again  with  the  cows.  He  lay  down  on 
his  back  in  the  heat  of  the  day,  and  after  a  while  he  saw  a  black  spot 
in  the  north-west,  and  it  grew  larger  and  nearer,  till  he  saw  it  was  a 
great  giant  coming  to  attack  him. 

'You  killed  my  brother,'  said  the  giant;  'come  here,  till  I  make  a 
garter  of  your  body.' 

The  young  man  went  to  him  and  caught  him  by  the  legs  and 
drove  him  down  into  the  hard  ground  up  to  his  ankles. 

Then  he  hit  the  rod  against  the  rock,  and  took  out  the  sword  and 
struck  off  the  giant's  head. 

That  evening  the  farmer  found  twice  as  much  milk  in  the  cows 
as  the  evening  before,  and  he  asked  the  young  man  if  he  had  seen 
anything.  The  young  man  said  that  he  had  seen  nothing. 

The  third  day  the  third  giant  came  to  him  and  said,  'You  have 
killed  my  two  brothers;  come  here,  till  I  make  a  garter  of  your 
body.' 

And  he  did  with  this  giant  as  he  had  done  with  the  other  two, 
and  that  evening  there  was  so  much  milk  in  the  cows  it  was  drop- 
ping out  of  their  udders  on  the  pathway. 

The  next  day  the  farmer  called  him  and  told  him  he  might  leave 
the  cows  in  the  stalls  that  day,  for  there  was  a  great  curiosity  to  be 
seen,  namely,  a  beautiful  king's  daughter  that  was  to  be  eaten  by  a 
great  fish,  if  there  was  no  one  in  it  that  could  save  her.  But  the 
young  man  said  such  a  sight  was  all  one  to  him,  and  he  went  out 
with  the  cows  on  to  the  hills.  When  he  came  to  the  rock  he  hit  it 
with  his  rod  and  brought  out  the  suit  and  put  it  on  him,  and 
brought  out  the  sword  and  strapped  it  on  his  side,  like  an  officer,  and 
he  got  on  the  black  horse  and  rode  faster  than  the  wind  till  he  came 
to  where  the  beautiful  king's  daughter  was  sitting  on  the  shore  in 
a  golden  chair,  waiting  for  the  great  fish. 


128  J.    M.    SYNGE 

When  the  great  fish  came  in  on  the  sea,  bigger  than  a  whale, 
with  two  wings  on  the  back  of  it,  the  young  man  went  down  into 
the  surf  and  struck  at  it  with  his  sword  and  cut  off  one  of  its  wings. 
All  the  sea  turned  red  with  the  bleeding  of  it,  till  it  swam  away 
and  left  the  young  man  on  the  shore. 

Then  he  turned  his  horse  and  rode  faster  than  the  wind  till  he 
came  to  the  rock,  and  he  took  the  suit  off  him  and  put  it  back  in  the 
rock,  with  the  giant's  sword  and  the  black  horse,  and  drove  the 
cows  down  to  the  farm. 

The  man  came  out  before  him  and  said  he  had  missed  the  greatest 
wonder  ever  was,  and  that  a  noble  person  was  after  coming  down 
with  a  fine  suit  on  him  and  cutting  off  one  of  the  wings  from  the 
great  fish. 

'And  there'll  be  the  same  necessity  on  her  for  two  mornings 
more,'  said  the  farmer,  'and  you'd  do  right  to  come  and  look  on 
it.' 

But  the  young  man  said  he  would  not  come. 

The  next  morning  he  went  out  with  his  cows,  and  he  took  the 
sword  and  the  suit  and  the  black  horse  out  of  the  rock,  and  he  rode 
faster  than  the  wind  till  he  came  where  the  king's  daughter  was  sit- 
ting on  the  shore.  When  the  people  saw  him  coming  there  was 
great  wonder  on  them  to  know  if  it  was  the  same  man  they  had 
seen  the  day  before.  The  king's  daughter  called  out  to  him  to  come 
and  kneel  before  her,  and  when  he  kneeled  down  she  took  her 
scissors  and  cut  off  a  lock  of  hair  from  the  back  of  his  head  and  hid 
it  in  her  clothes. 

Then  the  great  fish  came  in  from  the  sea,  and  he  went  down  into 
the  surf  and  cut  the  other  wing  off  from  it.  All  the  sea  turned  red 
with  the  bleeding  out  of  it,  till  it  swam  away  and  left  them. 

That  evening  the  farmer  came  out  before  him  and  told  him  of 
the  great  wonder  he  had  missed,  and  asked  him  would  he  go  the 
next  day  and  look  on  it.  The  young  man  said  he  would  not  go. 

The  third  day  he  came  again  on  the  black  horse  to  where  the 
king's  daughter  was  sitting  on  a  golden  chair  waiting  for  the  great 
fish.  When  it  came  in  from  the  sea  the  young  man  went  down  be- 
fore it,  and  every  time  it  opened  its  mouth  to  eat  him,  he  struck 
into  its  mouth,  till  his  sword  went  out  through  its  neck,  and  it 
rolled  back  and  died. 

Then  he  rode  off  faster  than  the  wind,  and  he  put  the  suit  and 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  129 

the  sword  and  the  black  horse  into  the  rock,  and  drove  home  the 
cows. 

The  farmer  was  there  before  him  and  he  told  him  that  there  was 
to  be  a  great  marriage  feast  held  for  three  days,  and  on  the  third 
day  the  king's  daughter  would  be  married  to  the  man  that  killed 
the  great  fish,  if  they  were  able  to  find  him. 

A  great  feast  was  held,  and  men  of  great  strength  came  and  said 
it  was  themselves  were  after  killing  the  great  fish. 

But  on  the  third  day  the  young  man  put  on  the  suit,  and 
strapped  the  sword  to  his  side  like  an  officer,  and  got  on  the  black 
horse  and  rode  faster  than  the  wind,  till  he  came  to  the  palace. 

The  king's  daughter  saw  him,  and  she  brought  him  in  and  made 
him  kneel  down  before  her.  Then  she  looked  at  the  back  of  his 
head  and  she  saw  the  place  where  she  had  cut  off  the  lock  with 
her  own  hand.  She  led  him  in  to  the  king,  and  they  were  married, 
and  the  young  man  was  given  all  the  estate. 

That  is  my  story. 


Two  recent  attempts  to  carry  out  evictions  on  the  island  came 
to  nothing,  for  each  time  a  sudden  storm  rose,  by,  it  is  said,  the 
power  of  a  native  witch,  when  the  steamer  was  approaching,  and 
made  it  impossible  to  land. 

This  morning,  however,  broke  beneath  a  clear  sky  of  June,  and 
when  I  came  into  the  open  air  the  sea  and  rocks  were  shining  with 
wonderful  brilliancy.  Groups  of  men,  dressed  in  their  holiday 
clothes,  were  standing  about,  talking  with  anger  and  fear,  yet 
showing  a  lurking  satisfaction  at  the  thought  of  the  dramatic  pag- 
eant that  was  to  break  the  silence  of  the  seas. 

About  half -past  nine  the  steamer  came  in  sight,  on  the  narrow 
line  of  sea-horizon  that  is  seen  in  the  centre  of  the  bay,  and  im- 
mediately a  last  effort  was  made  to  hide  the  cows  and  sheep  of  the 
families  that  were  most  in  debt. 

Till  this  year  no  one  on  the  island  would  consent  to  act  as  bailiff, 
so  that  it  was  impossible  to  identify  the  cattle  of  the  defaulters. 
Now,  however,  a  man  of  the  name  of  Patrick  has  sold  his  honour, 
and  the  effort  of  concealment  is  practically  futile. 

This  falling  away  from  the  ancient  loyalty  of  the  island  has 
caused  intense  indignation,  and  early  yesterday  morning,  while  I 


130  J.    M.    SYNGE 

was  dreaming  on  the  Dun,  this  letter  was  nailed  on  the  doorpost  of 
the  chapel: 

'Patrick,  the  devil,  a  revolver  is  waiting  for  you.  If  you  are 
missed  with  the  first  shot,  there  will  be  five  more  that  will  hit  you. 

'Any  man  that  will  talk  with  you,  or  work  with  you,  or  drink  a 
pint  of  porter  in  your  shop,  will  be  done  with  the  same  way  as 
yourself.' 

As  the  steamer  drew  near  I  moved  down  with  the  men  to  watch 
the  arrival,  though  no  one  went  further  than  about  a  mile  from  the 
shore. 

Two  curaghs  from  Kilronan  with  a  man  who  was  to  give  help  in 
identifying  the  cottages,  the  doctor,  and  the  relieving  officer,  were 
drifting  with  the  tide,  unwilling  to  come  to  land  without  the  sup- 
port of  the  larger  party.  When  the  anchor  had  been  thrown  it  gave 
me  a  strange  throb  of  pain  to  see  the  boats  being  lowered,  and  the 
sunshine  gleaming  on  the  rifles  and  helmets  of  the  constabulary 
who  crowded  into  them. 

Once  on  shore  the  men  were  formed  in  close  marching  order,  a 
word  was  given,  and  the  heavy  rhythm  of  their  boots  came  up  over 
the  rocks.  We  were  collected  in  two  straggling  bands  on  either  side 
of  the  roadway,  and  a  few  moments  later  the  body  of  magnificent 
armed  men  passed  close  to  us,  followed  by  a  low  rabble,  who  had 
been  brought  to  act  as  drivers  for  the  sheriff. 

After  my  weeks  spent  among  primitive  men  this  glimpse  of  the 
newer  types  of  humanity  was  not  reassuring.  Yet  these  mechanical 
police,  with  the  commonplace  agents  and  sheriffs,  and  the  rabble 
they  had  hired,  represented  aptly  enough  the  civilisation  for  which 
the  homes  of  the  island  were  to  be  desecrated. 

A  stop  was  made  at  one  of  the  first  cottages  in  the  village,  and 
the  day's  work  began.  Here,  however,  and  at  the  next  cottage,  a 
compromise  was  made,  as  some  relatives  came  up  at  the  last  mo- 
ment and  lent  the  money  that  was  needed  to  gain  a  respite. 

In  another  case  a  girl  was  ill  in  the  house,  so  the  doctor  inter- 
posed, and  the  people  were  allowed  to  remain  after  a  merely  for- 
mal eviction.  About  midday,  however,  a  house  was  reached  where 
there  was  no  pretext  for  mercy,  and  no  money  could  be  procured. 
At  a  sign  from  the  sheriff  the  work  of  carrying  out  the  beds  and 
utensils  was  begun  in  the  middle  of  a  crowd  of  natives  who  looked 
on  in  absolute  silence,  broken  only  by  the  wild  imprecations  of  the 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  131 

woman  of  the  house.  She  belonged  to  one  of  the  most  primitive 
families  on  the  island,  and  she  shook  with  uncontrollable  fury  as 
she  saw  the  strange  armed  men  who  spoke  a  language  she  could 
not  understand  driving  her  from  the  hearth  she  had  brooded  on  for 
thirty  years.  For  these  people  the  outrage  to  the  hearth  is  the  su- 
preme catastrophe.  They  live  here  in  a  world  of  grey,  where  there 
are  wild  rains  and  mists  every  week  in  the  year,  and  their  warm 
chimney  corners,  filled  with  children  and  young  girls,  grow  into  the 
consciousness  of  each  family  in  a  way  it  is  not  easy  to  understand 
in  more  civilised  places. 

The  outrage  to  a  tomb  in  China  probably  gives  no  greater  shock 
to  the  Chinese  than  the  outrage  to  a  hearth  in  Inishmaan  gives  to 
the  people. 

When  the  few  trifles  had  been  carried  out,  and  the  door  blocked 
with  stones,  the  old  woman  sat  down  by  the  threshold  and  covered 
her  head  with  her  shawl. 

Five  or  six  other  women  who  lived  close  by  sat  down  in  a  circle 
round  her,  with  mute  sympathy.  Then  the  crowd  moved  on  with 
the  police  to  another  cottage  where  the  same  scene  was  to  take 
place,  and  left  the  group  of  desolate  women  sitting  by  the  hovel. 

There  were  still  no  clouds  in  the  sky,  and  the  heat  was  intense. 
The  police  when  not  in  motion  lay  sweating  and  gasping  under  the 
walls  with  their  tunics  unbuttoned.  They  were  not  attractive,  and 
I  kept  comparing  them  with  the  islandmen,  who  walked  up  and 
down  as  cool  and  fresh-looking  as  the  sea-gulls. 

When  the  last  eviction  had  been  carried  out  a  division  was 
made:  half  the  party  went  off  with  the  bailiff  to  search  the  inner 
plain  of  the  island  for  the  cattle  that  had  been  hidden  in  the  morn- 
ing, the  other  half  remained  on  the  village  road  to  guard  some  pigs 
that  had  already  been  taken  possession  of. 

After  a  while  two  of  these  pigs  escaped  from  the  drivers  and  be- 
gan a  wild  race  up  and  down  the  narrow  road.  The  people  shrieked 
and  howled  to  increase  their  terror,  and  at  last  some  of  them  be- 
came so  excited  that  the  police  thought  it  time  to  interfere.  They 
drew  up  in  double  line  opposite  the  mouth  of  a  blind  laneway 
where  the  animals  had  been  shut  up.  A  moment  later  the  shriek- 
ing began  again  in  the  west  and  the  two  pigs  came  in  sight,  rush- 
ing down  the  middle  of  the  road  with  the  drivers  behind  them. 

They  reached  the  line  of  the  police.  There  was  a  slight  scuffle, 


132  J.    M.    SYNGE 

and  then  the  pigs  continued  their  mad  rush  to  the  east,  leaving 
three  policemen  lying  in  the  dust. 

The  satisfaction  of  the  people  was  immense.  They  shrieked  and 
hugged  each  other  with  delight,  and  it  is  likely  that  they  will  hand 
down  these  animals  for  generations  in  the  tradition  of  the  island. 

Two  hours  later  the  other  party  returned,  driving  three  lean 
cows  before  them,  and  a  start  was  made  for  the  slip.  At  the  public- 
house  the  policemen  were  given  a  drink  while  the  dense  crowd 
that  was  following  waited  in  the  lane.  The  island  bull  happened  to 
be  in  a  field  close  by,  and  he  became  wildly  excited  at  the  sight  of 
the  cows  and  of  the  strangely-dressed  men.  Two  young  islanders 
sidled  up  to  me  in  a  moment  or  two  as  I  was  resting  on  a  wall,  and 
one  of  them  whispered  in  my  ear — 

'Do  you  think  they  could  take  fines  of  us  if  we  let  out  the  bull 
on  them?' 

In  face  of  the  crowd  of  women  and  children,  I  could  only  say  it 
was  probable,  and  they  slunk  off. 

At  the  slip  there  was  a  good  deal  of  bargaining,  which  ended  in 
all  the  cattle  being  given  back  to  their  owners.  It  was  plainly  of  no 
use  to  take  them  away,  as  they  were  worth  nothing. 

When  the  last  policeman  had  embarked,  an  old  woman  came 
forward  from  the  crowd  and,  mounting  on  a  rock  near  the  slip,  be- 
gan a  fierce  rhapsody  in  Gaelic,  pointing  at  the  bailiff  and  waving 
her  withered  arms  with  extraordinary  rage. 

'This  man  is  my  own  son,'  she  said;  'it  is  I  that  ought  to  know 
him.  He  is  the  first  ruffian  in  the  whole  big  world.' 

Then  she  gave  an  account  of  his  life,  coloured  with  a  vindictive 
fury  I  cannot  reproduce.  As  she  went  on  the  excitement  became  so 
intense  I  thought  the  man  would  be  stoned  before  he  could  get 
back  to  his  cottage. 

On  these  islands  the  women  live  only  for  their  children,  and  it 
is  hard  to  estimate  the  power  of  the  impulse  that  made  this  old 
woman  stand  out  and  curse  her  son. 

In  the  fury  of  her  speech  I  seem  to  look  again  into  the  strangely 
reticent  temperament  of  the  islanders,  and  to  feel  the  passionate 
spirit  that  expresses  itself,  at  odd  moments  only,  with  magnificent 
words  and  gestures. 

Old  Pat  has  told  me  a  story  of  the  goose  that  lays  the  golden 
eggs,  which  he  calls  the  Phoenix: 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  133 

A  poor  widow  had  three  sons  and  a  daughter.  One  day  when 
her  sons  were  out  looking  for  sticks  in  the  wood  they  saw  a  fine 
speckled  bird  flying  in  the  trees.  The  next  day  they  saw  it  again, 
and  the  eldest  son  told  his  brothers  to  go  and  get  sticks  by  them- 
selves, for  he  was  going  after  the  bird. 

He  went  after  it,  and  brought  it  in  with  him  when  he  came 
home  in  the  evening.  They  put  it  in  an  old  hencoop,  and  they  gave 
it  some  of  the  meal  they  had  for  themselves; — I  don't  know  if  it  ate 
the  meal,  but  they  divided  what  they  had  themselves;  they  could 
do  no  more. 

That  night  it  laid  a  fine  spotted  egg  in  the  basket.  The  next  night 
it  laid  another. 

At  that  time  its  name  was  in  the  papers  and  many  heard  of  the 
bird  that  laid  the  golden  eggs,  for  the  eggs  were  of  gold,  and  there's 
no  lie  in  it. 

When  the  boys  went  down  to  the  shop  the  next  day  to  buy  a 
stone  of  meal,  the  shopman  asked  if  he  could  buy  the  bird  of  them. 
Well,  it  was  arranged  in  this  way.  The  shopman  would  marry  the 
boys'  sister — a  poor  simple  girl  without  a  stitch  of  good  clothes — 
and  get  the  bird  with  her. 

Some  time  after  that  one  of  the  boys  sold  an  egg  of  the  bird  to 
a  gentleman  that  was  in  the  country.  The  gentleman  asked  him  if 
he  had  the  bird  still.  He  said  that  the  man  who  had  married  his 
sister  was  after  getting  it. 

'Well,'  said  the  gentleman,  'the  man  who  eats  the  heart  of  that 
bird  will  find  a  purse  of  gold  beneath  him  every  morning,  and  the 
man  who  eats  its  liver  will  be  king  of  Ireland.' 

The  boy  went  out — he  was  a  simple  poor  fellow — and  told  the 
shopman. 

Then  the  shopman  brought  in  the  bird  and  killed  it,  and  he  ate 
the  heart  himself  and  he  gave  the  liver  to  his  wife. 

When  the  boy  saw  that,  there  was  great  anger  on  him,  and  he 
went  back  and  told  the  gentleman. 

'Do  what  I'm  telling  you,'  said  the  gentleman.  'Go  down  now  and 
tell  the  shopman  and  his  wife  to  come  up  here  to  play  a  game  of 
cards  with  me,  for  it's  lonesome  I  am  this  evening.' 

When  the  boy  was  gone  he  mixed  a  vomit  and  poured  the  lot  of 
it  into  a  few  naggins  of  whiskey,  and  he  put  a  strong  cloth  on  the 
table  under  the  cards. 

The  man  came  up  with  his  wife  and  they  began  to  play. 


134  J.    M.    SYNGE 

The  shopman  won  the  first  game  and  the  gentleman  made  them 
drink  a  sup  of  the  whiskey. 

They  played  again  and  the  shopman  won  the  second  game.  Then 
the  gentleman  made  him  drink  a  sup  more  of  the  whiskey. 

As  they  were  playing  the  third  game  the  shopman  and  his  wife 
got  sick  on  the  cloth,  and  the  boy  picked  it  up  and  carried  it  into 
the  yard,  for  the  gentleman  had  let  him  know  what  he  was  to  do. 
Then  he  found  the  heart  of  the  bird  and  he  ate  it,  and  the  next 
morning  when  he  turned  in  his  bed  there  was  a  purse  of  gold  un- 
der him. 

That  is  my  story. 

When  the  steamer  is  expected  I  rarely  fail  to  visit  the  boat-slip, 
as  the  men  usually  collect  when  she  is  in  the  offing,  and  lie  arguing 
among  their  curaghs  till  she  has  made  her  visit  to  the  south  island, 
and  is  seen  coming  towards  us. 

This  morning  I  had  a  long  talk  with  an  old  man  who  was  rejoic- 
ing over  the  improvement  he  had  seen  here  during  the  last  ten  or 
fifteen  years. 

Till  recently  there  was  no  communication  with  the  mainland  ex- 
cept by  hookers,  which  were  usually  slow,  and  could  only  make 
the  voyage  in  tolerably  fine  weather,  so  that  if  an  islander  went  to 
a  fair  it  was  often  three  weeks  before  he  could  return.  Now,  how- 
ever, the  steamer  comes  here  twice  in  the  week,  and  the  voyage 
is  made  in  three  or  four  hours. 

The  pier  on  this  island  is  also  a  novelty,  and  is  much  thought  of, 
as  it  enables  the  hookers  that  still  carry  turf  and  cattle  to  discharge 
and  take  their  cargoes  directly  from  the  shore.  The  water  round  it, 
however,  is  only  deep  enough  for  a  hooker  when  the  tide  is  nearly 
full,  and  will  never  float  the  steamer,  so  passengers  must  still  come 
to  land  in  curaghs.  The  boat-slip  at  the  corner  next  the  south  is- 
land is  extremely  useful  in  calm  weather,  but  it  is  exposed  to  a 
heavy  roll  from  the  south,  and  is  so  narrow  that  the  curaghs  run 
some  danger  of  missing  it  in  the  tumult  of  the  surf. 

In  bad  weather  four  men  will  often  stand  for  nearly  an  hour 
at  the  top  of  the  slip  with  a  curagh  in  their  hands,  watching  a 
point  of  rock  towards  the  south  where  they  can  see  the  strength 
of  the  waves  that  are  coming  in. 

The  instant  a  break  is  seen  they  swoop  down  to  the  surf,  launch 
their  curagh,  and  pull  out  to  sea  with  incredible  speed.  Coming  to 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  135 

land  is  attended  with  the  same  difficulty,  and,  if  their  moment  is 
badly  chosen,  they  are  likely  to  be  washed  sideways  and  swamped 
among  the  rocks. 

This  continual  danger,  which  can  only  be  escaped  by  extraordi- 
nary personal  dexterity,  has  had  considerable  influence  on  the  lo- 
cal character,  as  the  waves  have  made  it  impossible  for  clumsy, 
foolhardy,  or  timid  men  to  live  on  these  islands. 

When  the  steamer  is  within  a  mile  of  the  slip,  the  curaghs  are 
put  out  and  range  themselves — there  are  usually  from  four  to  a 
dozen — in  two  lines  at  some  distance  from  the  shore. 

The  moment  she  comes  in  among  them  there  is  a  short  but  des- 
perate struggle  for  good  places  at  her  side.  The  men  are  lolling  on 
their  oars  talking  with  the  dreamy  tone  which  comes  with  the  rock- 
ing of  the  waves.  The  steamer  lies  to,  and  in  an  instant  their  faces  be- 
come distorted  with  passion,  while  the  oars  bend  and  quiver  with 
the  strain.  For  one  minute  they  seem  utterly  indifferent  to  their 
own  safety  and  that  of  their  friends  and  brothers.  Then  the  se- 
quence is  decided,  and  they  begin  to  talk  again  with  the  dreamy 
tone  that  is  habitual  to  them,  while  they  make  fast  and  clamber  up 
into  the  steamer. 

While  the  curaghs  are  out  I  am  left  with  a  few  women  and  very 
old  men  who  cannot  row.  One  of  these  old  men,  whom  I  often 
talk  with,  has  some  fame  as  a  bone-setter,  and  is  said  to  have  done 
remarkable  cures,  both  here  and  on  the  mainland.  Stories  are  told 
of  how  he  has  been  taken  off  by  the  quality  in  their  carriages 
through  the  hills  of  Connemara,  to  treat  their  sons  and  daughters, 
and  come  home  with  his  pockets  full  of  money. 

Another  old  man,  the  oldest  on  the  island,  is  fond  of  telling  me 
anecdotes — not  folk-tales — of  things  that  have  happened  here  in  his 
lifetime. 

He  often  tells  me  about  a  Connaught  man  who  killed  his  father 
with  the  blow  of  a  spade  when  he  was  in  passion,  and  then  fled  to 
this  island  and  threw  himself  on  the  mercy  of  some  of  the  natives 
with  whom  he  was  said  to  be  related.  They  hid  him  in  a  hole — 
which  the  old  man  has  shown  me — and  kept  him  safe  for  weeks, 
though  the  police  came  and  searched  for  him,  and  he  could  hear 
their  boots  grinding  on  the  stones  over  his  head.  In  spite  of  a  re- 
ward which  was  offered,  the  island  was  incorruptible,  and  after 
much  trouble  the  man  was  safely  shipped  to  America. 

This  impulse  to  protect  the  criminal  is  universal  in  the  west.  It 


136  J.    M.    SYNGE 

seems  partly  due  to  the  association  between  justice  and  the  hated 
English  jurisdiction,  but  more  directly  to  the  primitive  feeling  of 
these  people,  who  are  never  criminals  yet  always  capable  of  crime, 
that  a  man  will  not  do  wrong  unless  he  is  under  the  influence  of  a 
passion  which  is  as  irresponsible  as  a  storm  on  the  sea.  If  a  man 
has  killed  his  father,  and  is  already  sick  and  broken  with  remorse, 
they  can  see  no  reason  why  he  should  be  dragged  away  and  killed 
by  the  law. 

Such  a  man,  they  say,  will  be  quiet  all  the  rest  of  his  life,  and  if 
you  suggest  that  punishment  is  needed  as  an  example,  they  ask, 
'Would  any  one  kill  his  father  if  he  was  able  to  help  it?' 1 

Some  time  ago,  before  the  introduction  of  police,  all  the  people 
of  the  islands  were  as  innocent  as  the  people  here  remain  to  this 
day.  I  have  heard  that  at  that  time  the  ruling  proprietor  and  mag- 
istrate of  the  north  island  used  to  give  any  man  who  had  done 
wrong  a  letter  to  a  jailer  in  Galway,  and  send  him  off  by  himself 
to  serve  a  term  of  imprisonment. 

As  there  was  no  steamer,  the  ill-doer  was  given  a  passage  in 
some  chance  hooker  to  the  nearest  point  on  the  mainland.  Then 
he  walked  for  many  miles  along  a  desolate  shore  till  he  reached  the 
town.  When  his  time  had  been  put  through  he  crawled  back  along 
the  same  route,  feeble  and  emaciated,  and  had  often  to  wait  many 
weeks  before  he  could  regain  the  island.  Such  at  least  is  the  story. 

It  seems  absurd  to  apply  the  same  laws  to  these  people  and  to 
the  criminal  classes  of  a  city.  The  most  intelligent  man  on  Inish- 
maan  has  often  spoken  to  me  of  his  contempt  of  the  law,  and  of 
the  increase  of  crime  the  police  have  brought  to  Aranmor.  On  this 
island,  he  says,  if  men  have  a  little  difference,  or  a  little  fight,  their 
friends  take  care  it  does  not  go  too  far,  and  in  a  little  time  it  is  for- 
gotten. In  Kilronan  there  is  a  band  of  men  paid  to  make  out  cases 
for  themselves;  the  moment  a  blow  is  struck  they  come  down  and 
arrest  the  man  who  gave  it.  The  other  man  he  quarrelled  with  has 
to  give  evidence  against  him;  whole  families  come  down  to  the 
court  and  swear  against  each  other  till  they  become  bitter  ene- 
mies. If  there  is  a  conviction  the  man  who  is  convicted  never  for- 
gives. He  waits  his  time,  and  before  the  year  is  out  there  is  a  cross 
summons,  which  the  other  man  in  turn  never  forgives.  The  feud 
continues  to  grow,  till  a  dispute  about  the  colour  of  a  man's  hair 
may  end  in  a  murder,  after  a  year's  forcing  by  the  law.  The  mere 

1  This  is  the  story  upon  which  Synge  based  his  play   The  Playboy  of  the   Western   World. 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  137 

fact  that  it  is  impossible  to  get  reliable  evidence  in  the  island — not 
because  the  people  are  dishonest,  but  because  they  think  the  claim 
of  kinship  more  sacred  than  the  claims  of  abstract  truth — turns  the 
whole  system  of  sworn  evidence  into  a  demoralising  farce,  and  it 
is  easy  to  believe  that  law  dealings  on  this  false  basis  must  lead  to 
every  sort  of  injustice. 

While  I  am  discussing  these  questions  with  the  old  men  the  cur- 
aghs  begin  to  come  in  with  cargoes  of  salt,  and  flour,  and  porter. 

To-day  a  stir  was  made  by  the  return  of  a  native  who  had  spent 
five  years  in  New  York.  He  came  on  shore  with  half  a  dozen  peo- 
ple who  had  been  shopping  on  the  mainland,  and  walked  up  and 
down  on  the  slip  in  his  neat  suit,  looking  strangely  foreign  to  his 
birthplace,  while  his  old  mother  of  eighty-five  ran  about  on  the 
slippery  seaweed,  half  crazy  with  delight,  telling  every  one  the 
news. 

When  the  curaghs  were  in  their  places  the  men  crowded  round 
him  to  bid  him  welcome.  He  shook  hands  with  them  readily 
enough,  but  with  no  smile  of  recognition. 

He  is  said  to  be  dying. 

Yesterday — a  Sunday — three  young  men  rowed  me  over  to  Inish- 
ere,  the  south  island  of  the  group. 

The  stern  of  the  curagh  was  occupied,  so  I  was  put  in  the  bow 
with  my  head  on  a  level  with  the  gunnel.  A  considerable  sea  was 
running  in  the  sound,  and  when  we  came  out  from  the  shelter  of 
this  island,  the  curagh  rolled  and  vaulted  in  a  way  not  easy  to  de- 
scribe. 

At  one  moment,  as  we  went  down  into  the  furrow,  green  waves 
curled  and  arched  themselves  above  me;  then  in  an  instant  I  was 
flung  up  into  the  air  and  could  look  down  on  the  heads  of  the  row- 
ers, as  if  we  were  sitting  on  a  ladder,  or  out  across  a  forest  of  white 
crests  to  the  black  cliff  of  Inishmaan. 

The  men  seemed  excited  and  uneasy,  and  I  thought  for  a  mo- 
ment that  we  were  likely  to  be  swamped.  In  a  little  while,  how- 
ever, I  realised  the  capacity  of  the  curagh  to  raise  its  head  among 
the  waves,  and  the  motion  became  strangely  exhilarating.  Even, 
I  thought,  if  we  were  dropped  into  the  blue  chasm  of  the  waves, 
this  death,  with  the  fresh  sea  saltness  in  one's  teeth,  would  be  bet- 
ter than  most  deaths  one  is  likely  to  meet. 

When  we  reached  the  other  island,  it  was  raining  heavily,  so  that 
we  could  not  see  anything  of  the  antiquities  or  people. 


138  J.    M.    SYNGE 

For  the  greater  part  of  the  afternoon  we  sat  on  the  tops  of 
empty  barrels  in  the  public-house,  talking  of  the  destiny  of  Gaelic. 
We  were  admitted  as  travellers,  and  the  shutters  of  the  shop  were 
closed  behind  us,  letting  in  only  a  glimmer  of  grey  light,  and  the 
tumult  of  the  storm.  Towards  evening  it  cleared  a  little  and  we 
came  home  in  a  calmer  sea,  but  with  a  dead  head-wind  that  gave 
the  rowers  all  they  could  do  to  make  the  passage. 

On  calm  days  I  often  go  out  fishing  with  Michael.  When  we 
reach  the  space  above  the  slip  where  the  curaghs  are  propped, 
bottom  upwards,  on  the  limestone,  he  lifts  the  prow  of  the  one  we 
are  going  to  embark  in,  and  I  slip  underneath  and  set  the  centre 
of  the  foremost  seat  upon  my  neck.  Then  he  crawls  under  the  stern 
and  stands  up  with  the  last  seat  upon  his  shoulders.  We  start  for 
the  sea.  The  long  prow  bends  before  me  so  that  I  see  nothing  but 
a  few  yards  of  shingle  at  my  feet.  A  quivering  pain  runs  from  the 
top  of  my  spine  to  the  sharp  stones  that  seem  to  pass  through  my 
pampooties,  and  grate  upon  my  ankles.  We  stagger  and  groan  be- 
neath the  weight;  but  at  last  our  feet  reach  the  slip,  and  we  run 
down  with  a  half-trot  like  the  pace  of  barefooted  children. 

A  yard  from  the  sea  we  stop  and  lower  the  curagh  to  the  right. 
It  must  be  brought  down  gently — a  difficult  task  for  our  strained 
and  aching  muscles — and  sometimes  as  the  gunnel  reaches  the  slip  I 
lose  my  balance  and  roll  in  among  the  seats. 

Yesterday  we  went  out  in  the  curagh  that  had  been  damaged  on 
the  day  of  my  visit  to  Kilronan,  and  as  we  were  putting  in  the  oars 
the  freshly-tarred  patch  stuck  to  the  slip  which  was  heated  with  the 
sunshine.  We  carried  up  water  in  the  bailer — the  'supeen,'  a  shallow 
wooden  vessel  like  a  soup-plate — and  with  infinite  pains  we  got  free 
and  rode  away.  In  a  few  minutes,  however,  I  found  the  water  spout- 
ing up  at  my  feet. 

The  patch  had  been  misplaced,  and  this  time  we  had  no  sacking. 
Michael  borrowed  my  pocket  scissors,  and  with  admirable  rapidity 
cut  a  square  of  flannel  from  the  tail  of  his  shirt  and  squeezed  it  into 
the  hole,  making  it  fast  with  a  splint  which  he  hacked  from  one  of 
the  oars. 

During  our  excitement  the  tide  had  carried  us  to  the  brink  of  the 
rocks,  and  I  admired  again  the  dexterity  with  which  he  got  his  oars 
into  the  water  and  turned  us  out  as  we  were  mounting  on  a  wave 
that  would  have  hurled  us  to  destruction. 


THE    ARAN   ISLANDS  139 

With  the  injury  to  our  curagh  we  did  not  go  far  from  the  shore. 
After  a  while  I  took  a  long  spell  at  the  oars,  and  gained  a  certain 
dexterity,  though  they  are  not  easy  to  manage.  The  handles  over- 
lap by  about  six  inches — in  order  to  gain  leverage,  as  the  curagh 
is  narrow — and  at  first  it  was  almost  impossible  to  avoid  striking  the 
upper  oar  against  one's  knuckles.  The  oars  are  rough  and  square, 
except  at  the  ends,  so  one  cannot  do  so  with  impunity.  Again,  a 
curagh  with  two  light  people  in  it  floats  on  the  water  like  a  nut- 
shell, and  the  slightest  inequality  in  the  stroke  throws  the  prow 
round  at  least  a  right  angle  from  its  course.  In  the  first  half-hour  I 
found  myself  more  than  once  moving  towards  the  point  I  had 
come  from,  greatly  to  Michael's  satisfaction. 

This  morning  we  were  out  again  near  the  pier  on  the  north  side 
of  the  island.  As  we  paddled  slowly  with  the  tide,  trolling  for  pol- 
lock, several  curaghs,  weighed  to  the  gunnel  with  kelp,  passed  us 
on  their  way  to  Kilronan. 

An  old  woman,  rolled  in  red  petticoats,  was  sitting  on  a  ledge  of 
rock  that  runs  into  the  sea  at  the  point  where  the  curaghs  were  pass- 
ing from  the  south,  hailing  them  in  quavering  Gaelic,  and  asking 
for  a  passage  to  Kilronan. 

The  first  one  that  came  round  without  a  cargo  turned  in  from 
some  distance  and  took  her  away. 

The  morning  had  none  of  the  supernatural  beauty  that  comes 
over  the  island  so  often  in  rainy  weather,  so  we  basked  in  the 
vague  enjoyment  of  the  sunshine,  looking  down  at  the  wild  luxuri- 
ance of  the  vegetation  beneath  the  sea,  which  contrasts  strangely 
with  the  nakedness  above  it. 

Some  dreams  I  have  had  in  this  cottage  seem  to  give  strength  to 
the  opinion  that  there  is  a  psychic  memory  attached  to  certain 
neighbourhoods. 

Last  night,  after  walking  in  a  dream  among  buildings  with 
strangely  intense  light  on  them,  I  heard  a  faint  rhythm  of  music 
beginning  far  away  on  some  stringed  instrument. 

It  came  closer  to  me,  gradually  increasing  in  quickness  and  vol- 
ume with  an  irresistibly  definite  progression.  When  it  was  quite 
near  the  sound  began  to  move  in  my  nerves  and  blood,  and  to  urge 
me  to  dance  with  them. 

I  knew  that  if  I  yielded  I  would  be  carried  away  to  some  mo- 
ment of  terrible  agony,  so  I  struggled  to  remain  quiet,  holding  my 
knees  together  with  my  hands. 


140  J.    M.    SYNGE 

The  music  increased  continually,  sounding  like  the  strings  of 
harps,  tuned  to  a  forgotten  scale,  and  having  a  resonance  as  search- 
ing as  the  strings  of  the  'cello. 

Then  the  luring  excitement  became  more  powerful  than  my  will, 
and  my  limbs  moved  in  spite  of  me. 

In  a  moment  I  was  swept  away  in  a  whirlwind  of  notes.  My 
breath  and  my  thoughts  and  every  impulse  of  my  body,  became  a 
form  of  the  dance,  till  I  could  not  distinguish  between  the  instru- 
ments and  the  rhythm  and  my  own  person  or  consciousness. 

For  a  while  it  seemed  an  excitement  that  was  filled  with  joy, 
then  it  grew  into  an  ecstasy  where  all  existence  was  lost  in  a  vortex 
of  movement.  I  could  not  think  there  had  ever  been  a  life  beyond 
the  whirling  of  the  dance. 

Then  with  a  shock  the  ecstasy  turned  to  an  agony  and  rage.  I 
struggled  to  free  myself,  but  seemed  only  to  increase  the  passion  of 
the  steps  I  moved  to.  When  I  shrieked  I  could  only  echo  the  notes 
of  the  rhythm. 

At  last  with  a  moment  of  uncontrollable  frenzy  I  broke  back  to 
consciousness  and  awoke. 

I  dragged  myself  trembling  to  the  window  of  the  cottage  and 
looked  out.  The  moon  was  glittering  across  the  bay,  and  there  was 
no  sound  anywhere  on  the  island. 

I  am  leaving  in  two  days,  and  old  Pat  Dirane  has  bidden  me 
good-bye.  He  met  me  in  the  village  this  morning  and  took  me  into 
Tiis  little  tint,'  a  miserable  hovel  where  he  spends  the  night. 

I  sat  for  a  long  time  on  his  threshold,  while  he  leaned  on  a  stool 
behind  me,  near  his  bed,  and  told  me  the  last  story  I  shall  have 
from  him — a  rude  anecdote  not  worth  recording.  Then  he  told  me 
with  careful  emphasis  how  he  had  wandered  when  he  was  a  young 
man,  and  lived  in  a  fine  college,  teaching  Irish  to  the  young  priests! 

They  say  on  the  island  that  he  can  tell  as  many  lies  as  four  men: 
perhaps  the  stories  he  has  learned  have  strengthened  his  imagina- 
tion. 

When  I  stood  up  in  the  doorway  to  give  him  God's  blessing,  he 
leaned  over  on  the  straw  that  forms  his  bed,  and  shed  tears.  Then 
he  turned  to  me  again,  lifting  up  one  trembling  hand,  with  the  mit- 
ten worn  to  a  hole  on  the  palm,  from  the  rubbing  of  his  crutch. 

Til  not  see  you  again,'  he  said,  with  tears  trickling  on  his  face, 
'and  you're  a  kindly  man.  When  you  come  back  next  year  I  won't 


, 


THE   ARAN   ISLANDS  141 

be  in  it.  I  won't  live  beyond  the  winter.  But  listen  now  to  what 
I'm  telling  you;  let  you  put  insurance  on  me  in  the  city  of  Dublin, 
and  it's  five  hundred  pounds  you'll  get  on  my  burial.' 

This  evening,  my  last  in  the  island,  is  also  the  evening  of  the 
'Pattern' — a  festival  something  like  'Pardons'  of  Brittany. 

I  waited  especially  to  see  it,  but  a  piper  who  was  expected  did 
not  come,  and  there  was  no  amusement.  A  few  friends  and  rela- 
tions came  over  from  the  other  island  and  stood  about  the  public- 
house  in  their  best  clothes,  but  without  music  dancing  was  impos- 
sible. 

I  believe  on  some  occasions  when  the  piper  is  present  there  is  a 
fine  day  of  dancing  and  excitement,  but  the  Galway  piper  is  get- 
ting old,  and  is  not  easily  induced  to  undertake  the  voyage. 

Last  night,  St.  John's  Eve,  the  fires  were  lighted  and  boys  ran 
about  with  pieces  of  the  burning  turf,  though  I  could  not  find  out 
if  the  idea  of  lighting  the  house  fires  from  the  bonfires  is  still  found 
on  the  island. 

I  have  come  out  of  an  hotel  full  of  tourists  and  commercial  trav- 
ellers, to  stroll  along  the  edge  of  Galway  bay,  and  look  out  in  the 
direction  of  the  islands.  The  sort  of  yearning  I  feel  towards  those 
lonely  rocks  is  indescribably  acute.  This  town,  that  is  usually  so 
full  of  wild  human  interest,  seems  in  my  present  mood  a  tawdry 
medley  of  all  that  is  crudest  in  modern  life.  The  nullity  of  the  rich 
and  the  squalor  of  the  poor  give  me  the  same  pang  of  wondering 
disgust;  yet  the  islands  are  fading  already  and  I  can  hardly  realise 
that  the  smell  of  the  seaweed  and  the  drone  of  the  Atlantic  are  still 
moving  round  them. 

One  of  my  island  friends  has  written  to  me: — 

Dear  John  Synge, — I  am  for  a  long  time  expecting  a  letter  from 
you  and  I  think  you  are  forgetting  this  island  altogether. 

Mr. died  a  long  time  ago  on  the  big  island  and  his  boat  was 

on  anchor  in  the  harbour  and  the  wind  blew  her  to  Black  Head  and 
broke  her  up  after  his  death. 

Tell  me  are  you  learning  Irish  since  you  went.  We  have  a  branch 
of  the  Gaelic  League  here  now  and  the  people  is  going  on  well 
with  the  Irish  and  reading. 

I  will  write  the  next  letter  in  Irish  to  you.  Tell  me  will  you  come 


142  J.    M.    SYNGE 

to  see  us  next  year  and  if  you  will  you'll  write  a  letter  before  you. 
All  your  loving  friends  is  well  in  health. — Mise  do  chara  go  buan.1 

Another  boy  I  sent  some  baits  to  has  written  to  me  also,  begin- 
ning his  letter  in  Irish  and  ending  it  in  English: 

Dear  John, — I  got  your  letter  four  days  ago,  and  there  was  pride 
and  joy  on  me  because  it  was  written  in  Irish,  and  a  fine,  good, 
pleasant  letter  it  was.  The  baits  you  sent  are  very  good,  but  I  lost 
two  of  them  and  half  my  line.  A  big  fish  came  and  caught  the  bait, 
and  the  line  was  bad  and  half  of  the  line  and  the  baits  went  away. 
My  sister  has  come  back  from  America,  but  I'm  thinking  it  won't 
be  long  till  she  goes  away  again,  for  it  is  lonesome  and  poor  she 
finds  the  island  now. — I  am  your  friend.  .  .  . 

Write  soon  and  let  you  write  in  Irish,  if  you  don't  I  won't  look 
on  it. 


In  the  Shadow  of  the  Glen2 


Scene.  The  last  cottage  at  the  head  of  a  long  glen  in  County  Wicklow. 

( Cottage  kitchen;  turf  fire  on  the  right;  a  bed  near  it  against  the  wall  with 
a  body  lying  on  it  covered  with  a  sheet.  A  door  is  at  the  other  end  of  the  room, 
with  a  low  table  near  it,  and  stools,  or  wooden  chairs.  There  are  a  couple  of 
glasses  on  the  table,  and  a  bottle  of  whisky,  as  if  for  a  wake,  with  two  cups,  a 
teapot,  and  a  home-made  cake.  There  is  another  small  door  near  the  bed.  nora 
burke  is  moving  about  the  room,  settling  a  few  things,  and  lighting  candles  on 
the  table,  looking  now  and  then  at  the  bed  with  an  uneasy  look.  Some  one 
knocks  softly  at  the  door.  She  takes  up  a  stocking  with  money  from  the  table 
and  puts  it  in  her  pocket.  Then  she  opens  the  door. ) 

Tramp   [outside].  Good  evening  to  you,  lady  of  the  house. 

Nora.  Good  evening  kindly,  stranger,  it's  a  wild  night,  God  help 
you,  to  be  out  in  the  rain  falling. 

Tramp.  It  is,  surely,  and  I  walking  to  Brittas  from  the  Aughrim  fair. 

Nora.  Is  it  walking  on  your  feet,  stranger? 


1 1  am  your  friend  forever. 

2  First  performed  at  the  Molesworth  Hall,  Dublin,  October    8,  1903. 


IN   THE   SHADOW   OF   THE   GLEN  143 

Tramp.  On  my  two  feet,  lady  of  the  house,  and  when  I  saw  the 
light  below  I  thought  maybe  if  you'd  a  sup  of  new  milk  and  a 
quiet  decent  corner  where  a  man  could  sleep.  [He  looks  in  past 
her  and  sees  the  dead  man.]  The  Lord  have  mercy  on  us  all! 

Nora.  It  doesn't  matter  anyway,  stranger,  come  in  out  of  the  rain. 

Tramp  [coming  in  slowly  and  going  towards  the  bed].  Is  it  de- 
parted he  is? 

Nora.  It  is,  stranger.  He's  after  dying  on  me,  God  forgive  him,  and 
there  I  am  now  with  a  hundred  sheep  beyond  on  the  hills,  and 
no  turf  drawn  for  the  winter. 

Tramp  [looking  closely  at  the  dead  man].  It's  a  queer  look  is  on 
him  for  a  man  that's  dead. 

Nora  [half -humorously].  He  was  always  queer,  stranger,  and  I  sup- 
pose them  that's  queer  and  they  living  men  will  be  queer  bodies 
after. 

Tramp.  Isn't  it  a  great  wonder  you're  letting  him  lie  there,  and  he 
not  tidied,  or  laid  out  itself? 

Nora  [coming  to  the  bed].  I  was  afeard,  stranger,  for  he  put  a 
black  curse  on  me  this  morning  if  I'd  touch  his  body  the  time 
he'd  die  sudden,  or  let  any  one  touch  it  except  his  sister  only, 
and  it's  ten  miles  away  she  lives  in  the  big  glen  over  the  hill. 

Tramp  [looking  at  her  and  nodding  slowly].  It's  a  queer  story  he 
wouldn't  let  his  own  wife  touch  him,  and  he  dying  quiet  in  his 
bed. 

Nora.  He  was  an  old  man,  and  an  odd  man,  stranger,  and  it's  al- 
ways up  on  the  hills  he  was,  thinking  thoughts  in  the  dark  mist. 
[She  pulls  back  a  bit  of  the  sheet.]  Lay  your  hand  on  him  now, 
and  tell  me  if  it's  cold  he  is  surely. 

Tramp.  Is  it  getting  the  curse  on  me  you'd  be,  woman  of  the 
house?  I  wouldn't  lay  my  hand  on  him  for  the  Lough  Nahanagan 
and  it  filled  with  gold. 

Nora  [looking  uneasily  at  the  body].  Maybe  cold  would  be  no  sign 
of  death  with  the  like  of  him,  for  he  was  always  cold,  every  day 
since  I  knew  him, — and  every  night,  stranger, — [she  covers  up  his 
face  and  comes  away  from  the  bed];  but  I'm  thinking  it's  dead 
he  is  surely,  for  he's  complaining  a  while  back  of  a  pain  in  his 


144  J.    M.    SYNGE 

heart,  and  this  morning,  the  time  he  was  going  off  to  Brittas  for 
three  days  or  four,  he  was  taken  with  a  sharp  turn.  Then  he 
went  into  his  bed  and  he  was  saying  it  was  destroyed  he  was,  the 
time  the  shadow  was  going  up  through  the  glen,  and  when  the 
sun  set  on  the  bog  beyond  he  made  a  great  lep,  and  let  a  great 
cry  out  of  him,  and  stiffened  himself  out  the  like  of  a  dead  sheep. 

Tramp  [crosses  himself].  God  rest  his  soul. 

Nora  [pouring  him  out  a  glass  of  whisky].  Maybe  that  would  do 
you  better  than  the  milk  of  the  sweetest  cow  in  County  Wick- 
low. 

Tramp.  The  Almighty  God  reward  you,  and  may  it  be  to  your  good 
health. 

( He  drinks. ) 

Nora  [giving  him  a  pipe  and  tobacco].  I've  no  pipes  saving  his 
own,  stranger,  but  they're  sweet  pipes  to  smoke. 

Tramp.  Thank  you  kindly,  lady  of  the  house. 

Nora.  Sit  down  now,  stranger,  and  be  taking  your  rest. 

Tramp  [filling  a  pipe  and  looking  about  the  room].  I've  walked  a 
great  way  through  the  world,  lady  of  the  house,  and  seen  great 
wonders,  but  I  never  seen  a  wake  till  this  day  with  fine  spirits, 
and  good  tobacco,  and  the  best  of  pipes,  and  no  one  to  taste 
them  but  a  woman  only. 

Nora.  Didn't  you  hear  me  say  it  was  only  after  dying  on  me  he  was 
when  the  sun  went  down,  and  how  would  I  go  out  into  the  glen 
and  tell  the  neighbours,  and  I  a  lone  woman  with  no  house  near 
me? 

Tramp  [drinking].  There's  no  offence,  lady  of  the  house? 

Nora.  No  offence  in  life,  stranger.  How  would  the  like  of  you,  pass- 
ing in  the  dark  night,  know  the  lonesome  way  I  was  with  no 
house  near  me  at  all? 

Tramp  [sitting  down].  I  knew  rightly.  [He  lights  his  pipe  so  that 
there  is  a  sharp  light  beneath  his  haggard  face.]  And  I  was 
thinking,  and  I  coming  in  through  the  door,  that  it's  many  a  lone 
woman  would  be  afeard  of  the  like  of  me  in  the  dark  night,  in  a 
place  wouldn't  be  as  lonesome  as  this  place,  where  there  aren't 


IN   THE   SHADOW   OF   THE   GLEN  145 

two  living  souls  would  see  the  little  light  you  have  shining  from 
the  glass. 

Nora  [slowly].  I'm  thinking  many  would  be  afeard,  but  I  never 
knew  what  way  I'd  be  afeard  of  beggar  or  bishop  or  any  man  of 
you  at  all.  [She  looks  towards  the  window  and  lowers  her  voice.] 
It's  other  things  than  the  like  of  you,  stranger,  would  make  a 
person  afeard. 

Tramp  [looking  round  with  a  half -shudder].  It  is  surely,  God  help 
us  all! 

Nora  [looking  at  him  for  a  moment  with  curiosity].  You're  saying 
that,  stranger,  as  if  you  were  easy  afeard. 

Tramp  [speaking  mournfully].  Is  it  myself,  lady  of  the  house,  that 
does  be  walking  round  in  the  long  nights,  and  crossing  the  hills 
when  the  fog  is  on  them,  the  time  a  little  stick  would  seem  as 
big  as  your  arm,  and  a  rabbit  as  big  as  a  bay  horse,  and  a  stack 
of  turf  as  big  as  a  towering  church  in  the  city  of  Dublin?  If  my- 
self was  easy  afeard,  I'm  telling  you,  it's  long  ago  I'd  have  been 
locked  into  the  Richmond  Asylum,  or  maybe  have  run  up  into 
the  back  hills  with  nothing  on  me  but  an  old  shirt,  and  been 
eaten  by  the  crows  the  like  of  Patch  Darcy — the  Lord  have  mercy 
on  him — in  the  year  that's  gone. 

Nora  [with  interest].  You  knew  Darcy? 

Tramp.  Wasn't  I  the  last  one  heard  his  living  voice  in  the  whole 
world? 

Nora.  There  were  great  stories  of  what  was  heard  at  that  time,  but 
would  any  one  believe  the  things  they  do  be  saying  in  the  glen? 

Tramp.  It  was  no  lie,  lady  of  the  house.  ...  I  was  passing  below 
on  a  dark  night  the  like  of  this  night,  and  the  sheep  were  lying 
under  the  ditch  and  every  one  of  them  coughing,  and  choking, 
like  an  old  man,  with  the  great  rain  and  the  fog.  Then  I  heard  a 
thing  talking — queer  talk,  you  wouldn't  believe  at  all,  and  you 
out  of  your  dreams, — and  'Merciful  God,'  says  I,  'if  I  begin  hear- 
ing the  like  of  that  voice  out  of  the  thick  mist,  I'm  destroyed 
surely.'  Then  I  run,  and  I  run,  and  I  run,  till  I  was  below  in  Rath- 
vanna.  I  got  drunk  that  night,  I  got  drunk  in  the  morning,  and 
drunk  the  day  after, — I  was  coming  from  the  races  beyond — and 


146  J.    M.    SYNGE 

the  third  day  they  found  Darcy.  .  .  .  Then  I  knew  it  was  him- 
self I  was  after  hearing,  and  I  wasn't  afeard  any  more. 

Nora  [speaking  sorrowfully  and  slowly].  God  spare  Darcy,  he'd 
always  look  in  here  and  he  passing  up  or  passing  down,  and  it's 
very  lonesome  I  was  after  him  a  long  while  [she  looks  over  at 
the  bed  and  lowers  her  voice,  speaking  very  clearly],  and  then  I 
got  happy  again — if  it's  ever  happy  we  are,  stranger, — for  I  got 
used  to  being  lonesome. 

(A  short  pause;  then  she  stands  up.) 

Nora.  Was  there  any  one  on  the  last  bit  of  the  road,  stranger,  and 
you  coming  from  Aughrim? 

Tramp.  There  was  a  young  man  with  a  drift  of  mountain  ewes, 
and  he  running  after  them  this  way  and  that. 

Nora  [with  a  half-smile].  Far  down,  stranger? 

Tramp.  A  piece  only. 

( She  fills  the  kettle  and  puts  it  on  the  fire. ) 

Nora.  Maybe,  if  you're  not  easy  afeard,  you'd  stay  here  a  short 
while  alone  with  himself. 

Tramp.  I  would  surely.  A  man  that's  dead  can  do  no  hurt. 

Nora  [speaking  with  a  sort  of  constraint].  I'm  going  a  little  back 
to  the  west,  stranger,  for  himself  would  go  there  one  night  and 
another  and  whistle  at  that  place,  and  then  the  young  man 
you're  after  seeing — a  kind  of  a  farmer  has  come  up  from  the  sea 
to  live  in  a  cottage  beyond — would  walk  round  to  see  if  there 
was  a  thing  we'd  have  to  be  done,  and  I'm  wanting  him  this 
night,  the  way  he  can  go  down  into  the  glen  when  the  sun  goes 
up  and  tell  the  people  that  himself  is  dead. 

Tramp  [looking  at  the  body  in  the  sheet].  It's  myself  will  go  for 
him,  lady  of  the  house,  and  let  you  not  be  destroying  yourself 
with  the  great  rain. 

Nora.  You  wouldn't  find  your  way,  stranger,  for  there's  a  small  path 
only,  and  it  running  up  between  two  sluigs  where  an  ass  and 
cart  would  be  drowned.  [She  puts  a  shawl  over  her  head.]  Let 


IN   THE    SHADOW   OF   THE   GLEN  147 

you  be  making  yourself  easy,  and  saying  a  prayer  for  his  soul, 
and  it's  not  long  I'll  be  coming  again. 

Tramp  [moving  uneasily].  Maybe  if  you'd  a  piece  of  a  grey  thread 
and  a  sharp  needle — there's  great  safety  in  a  needle,  lady  of  the 
house — I'd  be  putting  a  little  stitch  here  and  there  in  my  old 
coat,  the  time  I'll  be  praying  for  his  soul,  and  it  going  up  naked 
to  the  saints  of  God. 

Nora  [takes  a  needle  and  thread  from  the  front  of  her  dress  and 
gives  it  to  him].  There's  the  needle,  stranger,  and  I'm  thinking 
you  won't  be  lonesome,  and  you  used  to  the  back  hills,  for  isn't 
a  dead  man  itself  more  company  than  to  be  sitting  alone,  and 
hearing  the  winds  crying,  and  you  not  knowing  on  what  thing 
your  mind  would  stay? 

Tramp  [slowly].  It's  true,  surely,  and  the  Lord  have  mercy  on  us 
all! 

(  nora  goes  out.  The  tramp  begins  stitching  one  of  the  tags  in  his  coat,  saying 
the  De  Profundis  under  his  breath.  In  an  instant  the  sheet  is  drawn  slowly 
down,  and  dan  burke  looks  out.  The  tramp  moves  uneasily,  then  looks  up,  and 
springs  to  his  feet  with  a  movement  of  terror. ) 

Dan  [with  a  hoarse  voice].  Don't  be  afeard,  stranger;  a  man  that's 
dead  can  do  no  hurt. 

Tramp  [trembling].  I  meant  no  harm,  your  honour;  and  won't  you 
leave  me  easy  to  be  saying  a  little  prayer  for  your  soul? 

(A  long  whistle  is  heard  outside.) 

Dan  [sitting  up  in  his  bed  and  speaking  fiercely].  Ah,  the  devil 
mend  her.  .  .  .  Do  you  hear  that,  stranger?  Did  ever  you  hear 
another  woman  could  whistle  the  like  of  that  with  two  fingers  in 
her  mouth?  [He  looks  at  the  table  hurriedly.]  I'm  destroyed  with 
the  drouth,  and  let  you  bring  me  a  drop  quickly  before  herself 
will  come  back. 

Tramp  [doubtfully].  Is  it  not  dead  you  are? 

Dan.  How  would  I  be  dead,  and  I  as  dry  as  a  baked  bone,  stranger? 

Tramp  [pouring  out  the  whisky].  What  will  herself  say  if  she 
smells  the  stuff  on  you,  for  I'm  thinking  it's  not  for  nothing 
you're  letting  on  to  be  dead? 


148  J.    M.    SYNGE 

Dan.  It  is  not,  stranger,  but  she  won't  be  coming  near  me  at  all, 
and  it's  not  long  now  I'll  be  letting  on,  for  I've  a  cramp  in  my 
back,  and  my  hip's  asleep  on  me,  and  there's  been  the  devil's 
own  fly  itching  my  nose.  It's  near  dead  I  was  wanting  to  sneeze, 
and  you  blathering  about  the  rain,  and  Darcy  [bitterly] — the 
devil  choke  him — and  the  towering  church.  [Crying  out  impa- 
tiently.] Give  me  that  whisky.  Would  you  have  herself  come 
back  before  I  taste  a  drop  at  all? 

(  tramp  gives  him  the  glass. ) 

Dan  [after  drinking].  Go  over  now  to  that  cupboard,  and  bring  me 
a  black  stick  you'll  see  in  the  west  corner  by  the  wall. 

Tramp  [taking  a  stick  from  the  cupboard].  Is  it  that? 

Dan.  It  is,  stranger;  it's  a  long  time  I'm  keeping  that  stick  for  I've 
a  bad  wife  in  the  house. 

Tramp  [with  a  queer  look].  Is  it  herself,  master  of  the  house,  and 
she  a  grand  woman  to  talk? 

Dan.  It's  herself,  surely,  it's  a  bad  wife  she  is — a  bad  wife  for  an 
old  man,  and  I'm  getting  old,  God  help  me,  though  I've  an  arm 
to  me  still.  [He  takes  the  stick  in  his  hand.]  Let  you  wait  now  a 
short  while,  and  it's  a  great  sight  you'll  see  in  this  room  in  two 
hours  or  three.   [He  stops  to  listen.]  Is  that  somebody  above? 

Tramp  [listening].  There's  a  voice  speaking  on  the  path. 

Dan.  Put  that  stick  here  in  the  bed  and  smooth  the  sheet  the  way 
it  was  lying.  [He  covers  himself  up  hastily.]  Be  falling  to  sleep 
now  and  don't  let  on  you  know  anything,  or  I'll  be  having  your 
life.  I  wouldn't  have  told  you  at  all  but  it's  destroyed  with  the 
drouth  I  was. 

Tramp  [covering  his  head].  Have  no  fear,  master  of  the  house. 
What  is  it  I  know  of  the  like  of  you  that  I'd  be  saying  a  word  or 
putting  out  my  hand  to  stay  you  at  all? 

( He  goes  back  to  the  fire,  sits  down  on  a  stool  with  his  hack  to  the  bed  and 
goes  on  stitching  his  coat. ) 

Dan  [under  the  sheet,  querulously].  Stranger. 


IN   THE    SHADOW   OF   THE   GLEN  149 

Tramp  [quickly].  Whisht,  whisht.  Be  quiet,  I'm  telling  you,  they're 
coming  now  at  the  door. 

(nora  comes  in  with  michael  dara,  a  tall,  innocent  young  man,  behind  her.) 

Nora.  I  wasn't  long  at  all,  stranger,  for  I  met  himself  on  the  path. 
Tramp.  You  were  middling  long,  lady  of  the  house. 
Nora.  There  was  no  sign  from  himself? 
Tramp.  No  sign  at  all,  lady  of  the  house. 

Nora  [to  michael].  Go  over  now  and  pull  down  the  sheet,  and 
look  on  himself,  Michael  Dara,  and  you'll  see  it's  the  truth  I'm 
telling  you. 

Michael.  I  will  not,  Nora,  I  do  be  afeard  of  the  dead. 

(He  sits  down  on  a  stool  next  the  table  facing  the  tramp,  nora  puts  the 
kettle  on  a  lower  hook  of  the  pothooks,  and  piles  turf  under  it.) 

Nora  [turning  to  tramp].  Will  you  drink  a  sup  of  tea  with  myself 
and  the  young  man,  stranger,  or  [speaking  more  persuasively] 
will  you  go  into  the  little  room  and  stretch  yourself  a  short  while 
on  the  bed.  I'm  thinking  it's  destroyed  you  are  walking  the 
length  of  that  way  in  the  great  rain. 

Tramp.  Is  it  go  away  and  leave  you,  and  you  having  a  wake, 
lady  of  the  house?  I  will  not  surely.  [He  takes  a  drink  from  his 
glass  which  he  has  beside  him.]  And  it's  none  of  your  tea  I'm 
asking  either. 

(He  goes  on  stitching,  nora  makes  the  tea.) 

Michael  [after  looking  at  the  tramp  rather  scornfully  for  a  mo- 
ment]. That's  a  poor  coat  you  have,  God  help  you,  and  I'm 
thinking  it's  a  poor  tailor  you  are  with  it. 

Tramp.  If  it's  a  poor  tailor  I  am,  I'm  thinking  it's  a  poor  herd  does 
be  running  back  and  forward  after  a  little  handful  of  ewes  the 
way  I  seen  yourself  running  this  day,  young  fellow,  and  you 
coming  from  the  fair. 


150  J.    M.    SYNGE 

(  nora  comes  back  to  the  table. ) 

Nora  [to  michael  in  a  low  voice].  Let  you  not  mind  him  at  all, 
Michael  Dara,  he  has  a  drop  taken  and  it's  soon  he'll  be  falling 
asleep. 

Michael.  It's  no  lie  he's  telling;  I  was  destroyed  surely.  They  were 
that  wilful  they  were  running  off  into  one  man's  bit  of  oats,  and 
another  man's  bit  of  hay,  and  tumbling  into  the  red  bogs  till  it's 
more  like  a  pack  of  old  goats  than  sheep  they  were.  Mountain 
ewes  is  a  queer  breed,  Nora  Burke,  and  I'm  not  used  to  them  at 
all. 

Nora  [settling  the  tea  things].  There's  no  one  can  drive  a  moun- 
tain ewe  but  the  men  do  be  reared  in  the  Glen  Malure,  I've 
heard  them  say,  and  above  by  Rathvanna,  and  the  Glen  Imaal, 
men  the  like  of  Patch  Darcy,  God  spare  his  soul,  who  would 
walk  through  five  hundred  sheep  and  miss  one  of  them,  and  he 
not  reckoning  them  at  all. 

Michael  [uneasily].  Is  it  the  man  went  queer  in  his  head  the  year 
that's  gone? 

Nora.  It  is  surely. 

Tramp  [plaintively].  That  was  a  great  man,  young  fellow,  a  great 
man  I'm  telling  you.  There  was  never  a  lamb  from  his  own  ewes 
he  wouldn't  know  before  it  was  marked,  and  he'd  run  from  this 
to  the  city  of  Dublin  and  never  catch  for  his  breath. 

Nora  [turning  round  quickly].  He  was  a  great  man  surely,  stranger, 
and  isn't  it  a  grand  thing  when  you  hear  a  livin'  man  sayin'  a 
good  word  of  a  dead  man,  and  he  mad  dying? 

Tramp.  It's  the  truth  I'm  saying,  God  spare  his  soul. 

( He  puts  the  needle  under  the  collar  of  his  coat,  and  settles  himself  to  sleep 
in  the  chimney-corner,  nora  sits  down  at  the  table;  their  backs  are  turned 
to  the  bed.) 

Michael  [looking  at  her  with  a  queer  look].  I  heard  tell  this  day, 
Nora  Burke,  that  it  was  on  the  path  below  Patch  Darcy  would 
be  passing  up  and  passing  down,  and  I  heard  them  say  he'd 
never  pass  it  night  or  morning  without  speaking  with  yourself. 

Nora  [in  a  low  voice].  It  was  no  lie  you  heard,  Michael  Dara. 


IN   THE    SHADOW   OF   THE   GLEN  151 

Michael.  I'm  thinking  it's  a  power  of  men  you  re  after  knowing  if 
it's  in  a  lonesome  place  you  live  itself. 

Nora  [giving  him  his  tea].  It's  in  a  lonesome  place  you  do  have  to 
be  talking  with  some  one,  and  looking  for  some  one,  in  the  eve- 
ning of  the  day,  and  if  it's  a  power  of  men  I'm  after  knowing 
they  were  fine  men,  for  I  was  a  hard  child  to  please,  and  a  hard 
girl  to  please  [she  looks  at  him  a  little  sternly],  and  it's  a  hard 
woman  I  am  to  please  this  day,  Michael  Dara,  and  it's  no  lie  I'm 
telling  you. 

Michael  [looking  over  to  see  that  the  tramp  is  asleep,  and  then 
pointing  to  the  dead  man].  Was  it  a  hard  woman  to  please  you 
were  when  you  took  himself  for  your  man? 

Nora.  What  way  would  I  live  and  I  an  old  woman  if  I  didn't  marry 
a  man  with  a  bit  of  a  farm,  and  cows  on  it,  and  sheep  on  the  back 
hills? 

Michael  [considering].  That's  true,  Nora,  and  maybe  it's  no  fool 
you  were,  for  there's  good  grazing  on  it,  if  it  is  a  lonesome  place, 
and  I'm  thinking  it's  a  good  sum  he's  left  behind. 

Nora  [taking  the  stocking  with  money  from  her  pocket,  and  put- 
ting it  on  the  table].  I  do  be  thinking  in  the  long  nights  it  was  a 
big  fool  I  was  that  time,  Michael  Dara,  for  what  good  is  a  bit  of 
a  farm  with  cows  on  it,  and  sheep  on  the  back  hills,  when 
you  do  be  sitting  looking  out  from  a  door  the  like  of  that  door, 
and  seeing  nothing  but  the  mists  rolling  down  the  bog,  and  the 
mists  again,  and  they  rolling  up  the  bog,  and  hearing  nothing  but 
the  wind  crying  out  in  the  bits  of  broken  trees  were  left  from  the 
great  storm,  and  the  streams  roaring  with  the  rain. 

Michael  [looking  at  her  uneasily].  What  is  it  ails  you,  this  night, 
Nora  Burke?  I've  heard  tell  it's  the  like  of  that  talk  you  do  hear 
from  men  and  they  after  being  a  great  while  on  the  back  hills. 

Nora  [putting  out  the  money  on  the  table].  It's  a  bad  night,  and  a 
wild  night,  Michael  Dara,  and  isn't  it  a  great  while  I  am  at  the 
foot  of  the  back  hills,  sitting  up  here  boiling  food  for  himself, 
and  food  for  the  brood  sow,  and  baking  a  cake  when  the  night 
falls?  [She  puts  up  the  money,  listlessly,  in  little  piles  on  the 
table.]  Isn't  it  a  long  while  I  am  sitting  here  in  the  winter  and 
the  summer,  and  the  fine  spring,  with  the  young  growing  behind 


152  J.    M.    SYNGE 

me  and  the  old  passing,  saying  to  myself  one  time,  to  look  on 
Mary  Brien  who  wasn't  that  height  [holding  out  her  hand],  and 
I  a  fine  girl  growing  up,  and  there  she  is  now  with  two  children, 
and  another  coming  on  her  in  three  months  or  four. 

( She  pauses. ) 

Michael  [moving  over  three  of  the  piles].  That's  three  pounds  we 
have  now,  Nora  Burke. 

Nora  [continuing  in  the  same  voice].  And  saying  to  myself  an- 
other time,  to  look  on  Peggy  Cavanagh,  who  had  the  lightest 
hand  at  milking  a  cow  that  wouldn't  be  easy,  or  turning  a  cake, 
and  there  she  is  now  walking  round  on  the  roads,  or  sitting  in  a 
dirty  old  house,  with  no  teeth  in  her  mouth,  and  no  sense  and  no 
more  hair  than  you'd  see  on  a  bit  of  a  hill  and  they  after  burn- 
ing the  furze  from  it. 

Michael.  That's  five  pounds  and  ten  notes,  a  good  sum,  surely!  .  .  . 
It's  not  that  way  you'll  be  talking  when  you  marry  a  young  man, 
Nora  Burke,  and  they  were  saying  in  the  fair  my  lambs  were  the 
best  lambs,  and  I  got  a  grand  price,  for  I'm  no  fool  now  at  mak- 
ing a  bargain  when  my  lambs  are  good. 

Nora.  What  was  it  you  got? 

Michael.  Twenty  pound  for  the  lot,  Nora  Burke.  .  .  .  We'd  do 
right  to  wait  now  till  himself  will  be  quiet  awhile  in  the  Seven 
Churches,  and  then  you'll  marry  me  in  the  chapel  of  Rathvanna, 
and  I'll  bring  the  sheep  up  on  the  bit  of  a  hill  you  have  on  the 
back  mountain,  and  we  won't  have  anything  we'd  be  afeard  to 
let  our  minds  on  when  the  mist  is  down. 

Nora  [pouring  him  out  some  whisky].  Why  would  I  marry  you, 
Mike  Dara?  You'll  be  getting  old  and  I'll  be  getting  old,  and  in  a 
little  while  I'm  telling  you,  you'll  be  sitting  up  in  your  bed — the 
way  himself  was  sitting — with  a  shake  in  your  face,  and  your 
teeth  falling,  and  the  white  hair  sticking  out  round  you  like  an 
old  bush  where  sheep  do  be  leaping  a  gap. 

(dan  burke  sits  up  noiselessly  from  under  the  sheet,  with  his  hand  to  his 
face.  His  white  hair  is  sticking  out  round  his  head. ) 

Nora  [goes  on  slowly  without  hearing  him].  It's  a  pitiful  thing  to 
be  getting  old,  but  it's  a  queer  thing  surely.  It's  a  queer  thing  to 


IN   THE   SHADOW   OF   THE   GLEN  153 

see  an  old  man  sitting  up  there  in  his  bed  with  no  teeth  in  him, 
and  a  rough  word  in  his  mouth,  and  his  chin  the  way  it  would 
take  the  bark  from  the  edge  of  an  oak  board  you'd  have  building 
a  door.  .  .  .  God  forgive  me,  Michael  Dara,  we'll  all  be  getting 
old,  but  it's  a  queer  thing  surely. 

Michael.  It's  too  lonesome  you  are  from  living  a  long  time  with  an 
old  man,  Nora,  and  you're  talking  again  like  a  herd  that  would 
be  coming  down  from  the  thick  mist  [he  puts  his  arm  round 
her],  but  it's  a  fine  life  you'll  have  now  with  a  young  man,  a  fine 
life  surely.  .  .  . 

(dan  sneezes  violently,  michael  tries  to  get  to  the  door,  but  before  he  can 
do  so,  dan  jumps  out  of  bed  in  queer  white  clothes,  with  his  stick  in  his  hand, 
^and  goes  over  and  puts  his  back  against  it. ) 

Michael.  Son  of  God  deliver  us. 

( Crosses  himself,  and  goes  backward  across  the  room. ) 

Dan  [holding  up  his  hand  at  him].  Now  you'll  not  marry  her  the 
time  I'm  rotting  below  in  the  Seven  Churches,  and  you'll  see  the 
thing  I'll  give  you  will  follow  you  on  the  back  mountains  when 
the  wind  is  high. 

Michael  [to  nora].  Get  me  out  of  it,  Nora,  for  the  love  of  God. 
He  always  did  what  you  bid  him,  and  I'm  thinking  he  would  do 
it  now. 

Nora  [looking  at  the  tramp].  Is  it  dead  he  is  or  living? 

Van  [turning  towards  her.]  It's  little  you  care  if  it's  dead  or  living 
I  am,  but  there'll  be  an  end  now  of  your  fine  times,  and  all  the 
talk  you  have  of  young  men  and  old  men,  and  of  the  mist  com- 
ing up  or  going  down.  [He  opens  the  door.]  You'll  walk  out  now 
from  that  door,  Nora  Burke,  and  it's  not  to-morrow,  or  the  next 
day,  or  any  day  of  your  life,  that  you'll  put  in  your  foot  through 
it  again. 

Tramp  [standing  up.]  It's  a  hard  thing  you're  saying  for  an  old 
man,  master  of  the  house,  and  what  would  the  like  of  her  do  if 
you  put  her  out  on  the  roads? 

Dan.  Let  her  walk  round  the  like  of  Peggy  Cavanagh  below,  and 
be  begging  money  at  the  cross-road,  or  selling  songs  to  the  men. 


154  J.    M.    SYNGK 

[To  nora.]  Walk  out  now,  Nora  Burke,  and  it's  soon  you'll  be 
getting  old  with  that  life,  I'm  telling  you;  it's  soon  your  teeth'll 
be  falling  and  your  head'll  be  the  like  of  a  bush  where  sheep  do 
be  leaping  a  gap. 

(He  pauses:  she  looks  round  at  michael.) 

Michael  [timidly].  There's  a  fine  Union  below  in  Rathdrum. 

Dan.  The  like  of  her  would  never  go  there.  .  .  .  It's  lonesome  roads 
she'll  be  going  and  hiding  herself  away  till  the  end  will  come, 
and  they  find  her  stretched  like  a  dead  sheep  with  the  frost  on 
her,  or  the  big  spiders,  maybe,  and  they  putting  their  webs  on 
her,  in  the  butt  of  a  ditch. 

Nora  [angrily].  What  way  will  yourself  be  that  day,  Daniel  Burke? 
What  way  will  you  be  that  day  and  you  lying  down  a  long  while 
in  your  grave?  For  it's  bad  you  are  living,  and  it's  bad  you'll  be 
when  you're  dead.  [She  looks  at  him  a  moment  fiercely,  then 
half  turns  away  and  speaks  plaintively  again.]  Yet,  if  it  is  itself, 
Daniel  Burke,  who  can  help  it  at  all,  and  let  you  be  getting  up 
into  your  bed,  and  not  be  taking  your  death  with  the  wind  blow- 
ing on  you,  and  the  rain  with  it,  and  you  half  in  your  skin. 

Dan.  It's  proud  and  happy  you'd  be  if  I  was  getting  my  death  the 
day  I  was  shut  of  yourself.  [Pointing  to  the  door.]  Let  you  walk 
out  through  that  door,  I'm  telling  you,  and  let  you  not  be  pass- 
ing this  way  if  it's  hungry  you  are,  or  wanting  a  bed. 

Tramp    [pointing  to  michael].   Maybe  himself  would  take  her. 

Nora.  What  would  he  do  with  me  now? 

Tramp.  Give  you  the  half  of  a  dry  bed,  and  good  food  in  your 
mouth. 

Dan.  Is  it  a  fool  you  think  him,  stranger,  or  is  it  a  fool  you  were 
born  yourself?  Let  her  walk  out  of  that  door,  and  let  you  go 
along  with  her,  stranger — if  it's  raining  itself — for  it's  too  much 
talk  you  have  surely. 

Tramp  [going  over  to  nora].  We'll  be  going  now,  lady  of  the 
house — the  rain  is  falling,  but  the  air  is  kind  and  maybe  it'll  be  a 
grand  morning  by  the  grace  of  God. 


IN   THE    SHADOW   OF   THE   GLEN  155 

Nora.  What  good  is  a  grand  morning  when  I'm  destroyed  surely, 
and  I  going  out  to  get  my  death  walking  the  roads? 

Tramp.  You'll  not  be  getting  your  death  with  myself,  lady  of  the 
house,  and  I  knowing  all  the  ways  a  man  can  put  food  in  his 
mouth.  .  .  .  We'll  be  going  now,  I'm  telling  you,  and  the  time 
you'll  be  feeling  the  cold,  and  the  frost,  and  the  great  rain,  and 
the  sun  again,  and  the  south  wind  blowing  in  the  glens,  you'll 
not  be  sitting  up  on  a  wet  ditch,  the  way  you're  after  sitting  in 
this  place,  making  yourself  old  with  looking  on  each  day,  and  it 
passing  you  by.  You'll  be  saying  one  time,  'It's  a  grand  evening, 
by  the  grace  of  God,'  and  another  time,  It's  a  wild  night,  God 
help  us,  but  it'll  pass  surely.'  You'll  be  saying — 

Dan  [goes  over  to  them  crying  out  impatiently}.  Go  out  of  that 
door,  I'm  telling  you,  and  do  your  blathering  below  in  the  glen. 

(  nora  gathers  a  few  things  into  her  shawl. ) 

Tramp  [at  the  door}.  Come  along  with  me  now,  lady  of  the  house, 
and  it's  not  my  blather  you'll  be  hearing  only,  but  you'll  be  hear- 
ing the  herons  crying  out  over  the  black  lakes,  and  you'll  be 
hearing  the  grouse  and  the  owls  with  them,  and  the  larks  and  the 
big  thrushes  when  the  days  are  warm,  and  it's  not  from  the  like 
of  them  you'll  be  hearing  a  talk  of  getting  old  like  Peggy  Cava- 
nagh,  and  losing  the  hair  off  you,  and  the  light  of  your  eyes,  but 
it's  fine  songs  you'll  be  hearing  when  the  sun  goes  up,  and 
there'll  be  no  old  fellow  wheezing,  the  like  of  a  sick  sheep,  close 
to  your  ear. 

Nora.  I'm  thinking  it's  myself  will  be  wheezing  that  time  with  ly- 
ing down  under  the  Heavens  when  the  night  is  cold;  but  you've 
a  fine  bit  of  talk,  stranger,  and  it's  with  yourself  I'll  go.  [She  goes 
towards  the  door,  then  turns  to  dan.]  You  think  it's  a  grand  thing 
you're  after  doing  with  your  letting  on  to  be  dead,  but  what  is  it 
at  all?  What  way  would  a  woman  live  in  a  lonesome  place  the 
like  of  this  place,  and  she  not  making  a  talk  with  the  men  pass- 
ing? And  what  way  will  yourself  live  from  this  day,  with  none  to 
care  for  you?  What  is  it  you'll  have  now  but  a  black  life,  Daniel 
Burke,  and  it's  not  long  I'm  telling  you,  till  you'll  be  lying  again 
under  that  sheet,  and  you  dead  surely. 


156  J.    M.    SYNGE 

( She  goes  out  with  the  tramp,  michael  is  slinking  after  them,  but  dan  stops 
him.) 

Dan.  Sit  down  now  and  take  a  little  taste  of  the  stuff,  Michael  Dara. 
There  is  a  great  drouth  on  me,  and  the  night  is  young. 

Michael  [coming  back  to  the  table].  And  it's  very  dry  I  am,  surely, 
with  the  fear  of  death  you  put  on  me,  and  I  after  driving  moun- 
tain ewes  since  the  turn  of  the  day. 

Dan  [throwing  away  his  stick].  I  was  thinking  to  strike  you,  Mi- 
chael Dara,  but  you're  a  quiet  man,  God  help  you,  and  I  don't 
mind  you  at  all. 

(He  pours  out  two  glasses  of  whiskey,  and  gives  one  to  michael.) 

Dan.  Your  good  health,  Michael  Dara. 

Michael.  God  reward  you,  Daniel  Burke,  and  may  you  have  a  long 
life,  and  a  quiet  life,  and  good  health  with  it. 

( They  drink. ) 


SHAN    F.     BULLOCK 

The  Emigrant1 

Ohe  leant  out  of  the  carriage  window  and  saw  the  van-door  close; 
then  called  to  the  porter  if  her  box  were  safe  and  sound. 

'Aw,  ay,'  said  he,  and  slouched  up,  wiping  the  wet  from  his 
hand  on  his  corduroys;  'aw,  ay;  it'll  follow  ye  safe  to  Clogheen, 
anyhow.  Good-bye,  an'  God  speed  ye!' 

'Good-bye,'  she  said,  and  gave  him  her  hand.  'But  aren't  the  rest 
o'  ye  comin'?'  she  called. 

The  station-master  came  and  gave  her  a  parting  word;  then  two 
or  three  town  loiterers;  then  the  station-master's  wife,  with  a  shawl 
over  her  head,  and  picking  her  way  through  the  puddles;  last  of  all 
came  a  man — the  girl's  father,  one  could  see — running  stiffly,  and 
glancing  back  often  at  the  horse  and  cart  standing  forlorn  outside 
the  gate. 

'Good-bye,  Mary,'  he  said,  'an'  God  be  with  ye,  me  girl.'  He  held 
her  hand  for  a  second  or  two  and  his  lips  kept  moving  whilst  she 
answered  bravely.  'Ye'ill  write  from  New  York?' 

'I  will — aw,  at  once.' 

'Do — don't  keep  us  waitin','  he  said;  then  stood  back  with  the 
others,  and  blinked  at  the  driving  rain.  She  pulled  a  handkerchief 
from  a  battered  brown  hand-bag,  and  nervously  wiped  her  lips. 

'Ah,'  called  she,  'ye  all  thought  yes'd  see  me  cryin'.  Ah,  I  tricked 
ye  rightly.' 

'Ah,  no,'  answered  the  porter;  'we  knew  ye'd  be  brave.' 

'Ay,  ay,'  assented  the  rest,  and  shifted  their  legs;  'ay,  ay.' 

'Away  ye  go,'  shouted  the  guard;  the  engine  shrieked;  Mary 
shook  out  her  handkerchief  and  called  good-bye;  her  friends  waved 
an  arm;  she  had  started  for  the  States. 

'They  thought  I'd  cry,'  said  she,  as  she  sat  back  and  fell  to  pluck- 
ing at  the  fingers  of  her  woollen  gloves.  'They  thought  I'd  cry — 
och,  no!' 

She  was  brave;  yet  her  lips  were  quivering,  and  her  eyes  were 
turned  mournfully  on  the  fields  and  hedges  and  the  cottages  here 
and  there  shining  white  through  the  grey  drift  of  the  rain. 

'We'll  soon  be  at  it,'  she  said  presently.  'Ah,  Lord,  the  day  it  is! 
An'  the  state  I'm  in;  och,  och.'  She  stooped  and  wrung  the  water 

1  From  Ring  o'   Rushes,   New  York,   1896. 

157 


158  SHAN   F.    BULLOCK 

from  her  bedraggled  skirt.  'An'  me  hair  that  tattered;  aw,  it's 
shockin'!  But  I  didn't  cry,'  she  said,  and  flashed  her  black  eyes  at 
me.  'Och,  no.  Whisht!  we're  gettin'  near  it.  Aw,  there  it  is;  there 
they  are!  Good-bye,  muther!  Good-bye,  Patsey,  an'  Johnny,  an'  Liz- 
zie! Good-bye  all!' 

I  stood  up,  and  over  her  hat  caught  a  glimpse  of  the  group  gath- 
ered on  the  street  before  the  cottage:  the  mother  in  her  night- 
cap, the  children  bare-legged,  all  waving  their  arms  and  caps,  and 
crying  their  farewells. 

'Good-bye/  cried  Mary  back  through  the  rain;  'och,  good-bye!' 

That  was  the  last  of  them  she  would  see,  she  said,  as  she  sat 
down  again,  the  last,  till  the  Lord  knew  when.  She  was  for  the 
States?  asked  some  one.  Ah,  she  was;  she  could  get  work  there;  she 
could  do  nothing  at  home.  Sure,  it  was  better  to  go  than  to  be  a 
burden  on  them  all.  Ah,  yes;  she  had  been  out  before  an'  had  come 
home  to  settle,  but — but,  and  her  handkerchief  went  fast  to  her  lips 
— well,  things  had  turned  out  troublesome.  She'd  do  better  out 
there;  there  were  too  many  at  home,  and  her  mother  was  poorly. 
Ah,  an',  sure,  times  were  shockin'  bad. 

'Ay,  ay,'  the  men  went  in  chorus;  'they  are,  they  are';  then 
looked  mournfully  at  her  red  cheeks,  and  from  one  to  another 
passed  the  word  that  she  was  a  brave  girl,  so  she  was;  a  brave  girl; 
and  God  speed  her,  said  they,  as  one  by  one  they  went  out  clumsily 
at  Glann  station,  and  left  Mary  and  me  together. 

It  was  fair-day  at  Glann;  therefore  did  the  train  settle  itself  by 
the  platform  for  a  long  rest. 

'The  guard  mebbe's  gone  to  see  the  fair,'  said  Mary;  and  I 
laughed,  stamped  vigorously  (for  it  was  cold)  across  the  carriage 
floor,  wiped  the  window,  and  looked  out. 

Down  the  further  bank  of  the  railway,  along  a  narrow  path 
which  had  started  beyond  the  fields  somewhere  near  the  town,  was 
coming  a  little  procession  of  six  men,  bearing  a  coffin  on  a  rough 
hurdle  made  of  ash  poles.  The  men  were  bare-headed;  a  single 
bunch  of  wild-flowers  lay  atop  the  streaming  coffin;  there  were  no 
mourners,  nor  anywhere  could  one  see  any  sign  of  sorrow  or  curi- 
osity. They  came  on  down,  the  men  with  their  pitiful  burden, 
crossed  a  track,  came  to  a  siding,  slid  the  coffin  into  a  fish-van,  shut 
the  door,  pulled  their  soft  felt  hats  from  their  pockets,  mopped 
their  faces,  then  took  shelter  behind  the  van  and  lit  their  pipes. 


THE   EMIGRANT  159 

There  wanted  only  a  bottle  to  make  the  scene  complete,  and  I  was 
confidently  watching  for  it,  when  right  at  my  elbow  arose  a 
great  sobbing. 

'Aw,  aw,'  cried  Mary;  'did  ye  see?  Did  ye  see?  Och!  What  a  way 
to  be  trated!  An'  such  a  day  for  a  buryin'!  All  out  in  the  wet — the 
wet  an'  the  cowld.  Aw,  poor  crature!  Aw,  muther,  muther,  ye'll  die, 
ye'ill  die!  I'll  niver  see  ye  again,  nor  father,  nor  no  one.  Aw,  it's 
cruel  to  lave  ye.  I'll  go  back;  I'll  go  back!' 

Her  sobs  were  pitiful.  Loiterers  began  to  gather  round  the  door. 
It  was  only  a  poor  girl  going  to  America,  I  explained;  they  would 
pity  her,  I  was  sure.  Ah,  they  would,  said  they,  and  went,  all  but 
one:  a  big,  sunburnt  fellow  dressed  in  rough  tweed,  who  came 
forward  and  asked  my  leave.  For  what?  Ah,  he  knew  the  girl; 
came  in,  went  over  and  laid  a  rough  hand  on  Mary's  shoulder. 

'Ah,  don't,'  she  said.  'I'll  go  home,  I'll  go  home.' 

"What  ails  ye,  Mary,  at  all?'  said  he,  and  shook  her  again. 

She  turned. 

'Ah,  God  A'mighty,  James!'  she  cried;  and  her  tears  went.  'It's  you. 
Where  are  ye  goin'?  What  brings  ye?  Who  towld  ye?' 

James  sat  down  heavily,  and  began  beating  his  boot  with  his 
stick.  Ah,  he'd  been  to  the  fair,  had  sold  early,  was  waiting  for  a 
train  to  take  him  home. 

'Where  are  ye  goin'?'  he  said  over  his  shoulder.  'What  wur  ye 
bleartin'  about?' 

Mary  hung  her  head  and  did  not  answer. 

'Where  are  ye  goin'?'  he  said  again. 

She  looked  up  at  him  quickly,  almost  defiantly. 

'To  the  States.' 

He  nodded;  began  again  the  tattoo  on  his  boot,  and  before  an- 
other word  came  the  train  had  started. 

'We're  goin','  said  Mary.  'Hurry  an'  say  good-bye,  or  they'll  shut 
ye  in.' 

'No  matter,'  he  answered;  I'll  stay  where  I  am.' 

The  maid  sat  apart  from  the  man,  and  answered  his  abrupt, 
mannerless  questions  as  bravely  as  she  might. 

Why  was  she  going?  Ah,  he  knew;  there  was  no  need  to  ask. 

Why  had  she  not  told  him?  Better  not;  what  was  the  use?  All 
was  over  between  them. 

The  man  eyed  her  wonderingly.  Over?  he  repeated.  Over?  Did 


160  SHAN   F.    BULLOCK 

she  not  know  he  was  ready  to  make  it  up,  and — to  do  his  best?  Ay, 
yes,  she  knew;  still — 

Still,  what?  It  was  better  to  go,  she  said,  and  looked  tearfully  out 
at  the  flying  fields. 

Yes,  it  was  better  to  go;  I  agreed  with  Mary.  He  was  a  lout,  for 
certain;  a  good-for-nothing,  by  all  chance.  She  would  lose  nothing 
by  leaving  him.  There,  there,  sitting  beside  her,  was  the  trouble 
about  which  she  had  spoken.  She  had  come  home  to  settle  down 
with  him;  but  things  had  been  troublesome.  Ah,  yes.  One  knew  it 
all.  He  had  been  easy-going  and  lazy;  wanted  things  to  turn  up, 
felt  no  inclination  to  hurry  into  married  cares.  Aw,  sure,  he  could 
wait  awhile;  and  if  he,  then  Mary.  Something  like  that  it  had  been; 
anyhow,  Mary  had  not  settled.  They  had  quarrelled,  and  now  she 
was  leaving  him  for  better  or  worse.  She  was  wise.  Had  the  man 
no  bowels?  Had  he  nothing  for  her  but  hard  questions  and  pitying 
looks?  Would  he  not,  before  he  went,  say  one  kind  word  to  this 
girl  who  had  trusted  in  his  word  and  manhood,  and  finding  them 
wanting  was  now  leaving  him  for  ever?  Did  there  not  some  golden 
memory  linger  about  his  heart?  Not  one.  He  was  wooden  to  the 
core.  He  would  sit  on  there,  tapping  his  boot  and  staring  at  his  big 
freckled  hands,  neither  hurt  nor  sorry,  but  just  wondering  that  a 
girl  could  be  such  a  fool;  the  train  would  stop,  and  with  a  nod  and 
a  flabby  shake  of  the  hand,  he  would  take  himself  out  into  the 
rain.  And  good  riddance! 

The  train  slowed;  Mary's  lips  began  to  quiver.  The  train 
stopped;  I  gathered  in  my  legs,  so  that  the  fellow  might  pass  with- 
out touching  me.  He  raised  his  head  and  looked  out  at  the  sky. 

'Ah,  I  may  as  well  g'wan  to  the  junction,'  he  drawled;  'it'll  be  all 
the  same;  one  could  do  nothin'  such  a  day,  anyhow.' 

*Yis,'  said  Mary,  and  not  cheerlessly.  'Sure,  ye  may  as  well.' 

We  sat  silent  all  the  way  to  Clogheen,  and  there  we  parted: 
Mary,  so  it  was  set  down,  to  catch  a  train  north,  James  one  back 
home,  and  I  to  do  my  work  in  the  town. 

Two  hours  afterwards  I  met  the  two  in  the  rain-swept  streets, 
and  in  my  surprise  stopped  short  before  them.  Mary  looked  up  and 
laughed. 

'Ah,'  said  she,  'I'm  here  yit;  that  train  went  without  me.' 

'Oh,'  said  I;  'that's  very  bad;  why,  the  next  won't  be  here  for 
hours.  And  you're  drenched?  But — but — '  and  I  looked  at  James  as 


THE   EMIGRANT  161 

he  stood,  slightly  flushed  and  dripping  wet,  blankly  staring  across 
the  street. 

'Ah,  yis,'  Mary  answered.  'James  missed  his,  too;  I'm  not  goin'  at 
all;  sure,  we've  made  it  up.' 

I  put  my  watch  slowly  back  into  my  pocket  and  nodded.  'James 
has  promised  me,'  she  went  on,  and  her  eyes  fell;  'an'  we're  goin' 
to  get  marr'ed  come  harvest-time;  an'  he'll  try  hard  for  a  place  at 
the  big  house  above.  An' — an' — God  knows,  Sir,  I'm  not  sorry,  foi- 
me  heart  was  sore  at  lavin'  home.' 

They  knew  their  own  business  best;  but  there  fell  an  awkward 
silence,  so  I  asked  James  concerning  his  prospects.  Did  he  see  his 
way  clearly? 

Ah,  he  did;  and  began  tapping  his  boots.  Sure,  there  was  always 
a  way  if  one  could  only  wait  till  it  came.  'Isn't  she  better  here,  any- 
way, whatever  comes,'  said  he,  and  gave  me  a  moment's  glimpse 
at  his  face,  'than  out  yonder  wid  the  strangers?  Sure,  'twas  mad- 
ness av  her  to  think  o'  it;  sure,  Providence  sent  me  to  Glann  fair.' 

Providence?  And  had  Providence  sent  also  that  dismal  procession 
to  the  fish-van,  that  Mary  might  see  it  and  sob  for  her  friends,  and 
her  James,  and  the  home  of  her  heart? 

'And  you,  Mary?'  I  asked.  'Are  you  quite  satisfied?' 

'Ah,  yis,'  said  she  mournfully.  'Ah,  I  hope  so.' 

I  took  her  into  a  shop  and  bought  her  a  little  wedding  gift — a 
silver  brooch,  shaped  like  a  harp  and  set  with  green  marble,  then 
wished  them  more  happiness  than  I  ever  hoped  they  would  have, 
and  went  my  way. 

Three  hours  afterwards  saw  me  at  Clogheen  station  again,  and 
there  was  Mary,  standing  dejected  by  her  little  yellow  box. 

'Not  gone  home  yet,  Mary?'  I  asked. 

Her  handkerchief  fluttered  out. 

'No-o,  Sir.  I — was  lookin'  for  ye.  I — I  wanted  to  give  ye  back 
this';  and  she  held  out  the  brooch.  Til  niver  wear  it.  Och,  it's  all 
over.  I — I'm  goin'  on  to  catch  the  ship.' 

It  was  well.  I  determined  that  this  time  neither  Providence  nor 
emotion  should  hinder  her  going. 

'Ah,  no,'  she  sobbed;  "twas  only  foolishness.  Me  heart  was  sore 
at  lavin'  them  all;  an'  the  sight  o'  that  coffin  an'  James  comin'  like 
that —  Och,  I  cudn't  bear  it!  But  'twas  foolish  av  me;  it's  better  for 
me  to  go.' 


162  SHAN   F.    BULLOCK 

I  took  the  brooch,  pinned  it  on  her  jacket,  and  spoke  a  foolish 
word  or  two  by  way  of  comfort.  She  would,  I  hoped,  wear  it  for  my 
sake,  if  not  for  .  .  . 

'Aw,  Sir,'  she  burst  out,  'if  he'd  only  been  steady!  for  I  liked  him 
well.  Och,  och!' 

She  turned  and  looked  down  the  platform;  there  sat  James, 
drunk  and  asleep. 


GEORGE     MOORE 

A  Letter  to  Rome1 

O  ne  morning  the  priest's  housekeeper  mentioned,  as  she  gath- 
ered up  the  breakfast  things,  that  Mike  Mulhare  had  refused  to  let 
his  daughter  Catherine  marry  James  Murdoch  until  he  had  earned 
the  price  of  a  pig. 

'This  is  bad  news/  said  the  priest,  and  he  laid  down  the  news- 
paper. 

'And  he  waiting  for  her  all  the  summer!  Wasn't  it  in  February  last 
that  he  came  out  of  the  poorhouse?  And  the  fine  cabin  he  has 
built  for  her!  He'll  be  so  lonesome  in  it  that  he'll  be  going ' 

'To  America!'  said  the  priest. 

'Maybe  it  will  be  going  back  to  the  poorhouse  he'll  be,  for  he'll 
never  earn  the  price  of  his  passage  at  the  relief  works.' 

The  priest  looked  at  her  for  a  moment  as  if  he  did  not  catch  her 
meaning.  A  knock  came  at  the  door,  and  he  said: 

'The  inspector  is  here,  and  there  are  people  waiting  for  me.' 
And  while  he  was  distributing  the  clothes  he  had  received  from 
Manchester,  he  argued  with  the  inspector  as  to  the  direction  the 
new  road  should  take;  and  when  he  came  back  from  the  relief 
works,  his  dinner  was  waiting.  He  was  busy  writing  letters  all  the 
afternoon;  and  it  was  not  until  he  had  handed  them  to  the  postmis- 
tress that  he  was  free  to  go  to  poor  James  Murdoch,  who  had  built 
a  cabin  at  the  end  of  one  of  the  famine  roads  in  a  hollow  out  of  the 
way  of  the  wind. 

From  a  long  way  off  the  priest  could  see  him  digging  his  patch  of 
bog. 

And  when  he  caught  sight  of  the  priest  he  stuck  his  spade  in  the 
ground  and  came  to  meet  him,  almost  as  naked  as  an  animal,  bare 
feet  protruding  from  ragged  trousers;  there  was  a  shirt,  but  it  was 
buttonless,  and  the  breast-hair  trembled  in  the  wind — a  likely  crea- 
ture to  come  out  of  the  hovel  behind  him. 

'It  has  been  dry  enough,'  he  said,  'all  the  summer;  and  I  had  a 
thought  to  make  a  drain.  But  'tis  hard  luck,  your  reverence,  and 
after  building  this  house  for  her.  There's  a  bit  of  smoke  in  the 
house  now,  but  if  I  got  Catherine  I  wouldn't  be  long  making  a 


LFrom   The  Untilled  Field,  London,   1903.  Text  from  Carra  Edition,  New  York,   1923. 

163 


164  GEORGE    MOORE 

chimney.  I  told  Mike  he  should  give  Catherine  a  pig  for  her  for- 
tune, but  he  said  he  would  give  her  a  calf  when  I  bought  the  pig, 
and  I  said,  "Haven't  I  built  a  fine  house,  and  wouldn't  it  be  a  fine  one 
to  rear  him  in?" ' 

And  together  they  walked  through  the  bog,  James  talking  to  the 
priest  all  the  way,  for  it  was  seldom  he  had  anyone  to  talk  to. 

'Now  I  mustn't  take  you  any  further  from  your  digging.' 

'Sure  there's  time  enough,'  said  James.  'Amn't  I  there  all  day?' 

I'll  go  and  see  Mike  Mulhare  myself,'  said  the  priest. 

'Long  life  to  your  reverence.' 

'And  I  will  try  to  get  you  the  price  of  the  pig.' 

'Ah,  'tis  your  reverence  that's  good  to  us.' 

The  priest  stood  looking  after  him,  wondering  if  he  would  give 
up  life  as  a  bad  job  and  go  back  to  the  poorhouse;  and  while  think- 
ing of  James  Murdoch  he  became  conscious  that  the  time  was  com- 
ing for  the  priests  to  save  Ireland.  Catholic  Ireland  was  passing 
away;  in  five-and-twenty  years  Ireland  would  be  a  Protestant  coun- 
try if — (he  hardly  dared  to  formulate  the  thought) — if  the  priests 
did  not  marry.  The  Greek  priests  had  been  allowed  to  retain  their 
wives  in  order  to  avert  a  schism.  Rome  had  always  known  how 
to  adapt  herself  to  circumstances;  there  was  no  doubt  that  if  Rome 
knew  Ireland's  need  of  children  she  would  consider  the  revocation 
of  the  decree  of  celibacy,  and  he  returned  home  remembering  that 
celibacy  had  only  been  made  obligatory  in  Ireland  in  the  twelfth 
century. 

Ireland  was  becoming  a  Protestant  country!  He  drank  his  tea 
mechanically,  and  it  was  a  long  time  before  he  took  up  his  knitting. 
But  he  could  not  knit,  and  laid  the  stocking  aside.  Of  what  good 
would  his  letter  be?  A  letter  from  a  poor  parish  priest  asking  that 
one  of  the  most  ancient  decrees  should  be  revoked!  It  would  be 
thrown  into  the  waste-paper  basket.  The  cardinals  are  men  whose 
thoughts  move  up  and  down  certain  narrow  ways,  clever  men  no 
doubt,  but  clever  men  are  often  the  dupes  of  conventions.  All  men 
who  live  in  the  world  accept  the  conventions  as  truths.  It  is  only 
in  the  wilderness  that  the  truth  is  revealed  to  man.  T  must  write 
the  letter!  Instinct,'  he  said,  'is  a  surer  guide  than  logic,  and  my  let- 
ter to  Rome  was  a  sudden  revelation/ 

As  he  sat  knitting  by  his  own  fireside  his  idea  seemed  to  come 
out  of  the  corners  of  the  room.  'When  you  were  at  Rathowen,'  his 
idea  said,  'you  heard  the  clergy  lament  that  the  people  were  leaving 


A   LETTER   TO   ROME  165 

the  country.  You  heard  the  bishop  and  many  eloquent  men  speak 
on  the  subject.  Words,  words,  but  on  the  bog  road  the  remedy  was 
revealed  to  you. 

'That  if  each  priest  were  to  take  a  wife  about  four  thousand  chil- 
dren would  be  born  within  the  year,  forty  thousand  children  would 
be  added  to  the  birth-rate  in  ten  years.  Ireland  can  be  saved  by  her 
priesthood!' 

The  truth  of  this  estimate  seemed  beyond  question,  and  yet, 
Father  MacTurnan  found  it  difficult  to  reconcile  himself  to  the  idea 
of  a  married  clergy.  'One  is  always  the  dupe  of  prejudice,'  he  said 
to  himself  and  went  on  thinking.  'The  priests  live  in  the  best 
houses,  eat  the  best  food,  wear  the  best  clothes;  they  are  indeed  the 
flower  of  the  nation,  and  would  produce  magnificent  sons  and 
daughters.  And  who  could  bring  up  their  children  according  to  the 
teaching  of  our  holy  church  as  well  as  priests?' 

So  did  his  idea  unfold  itself,  and  very  soon  he  realized  that 
other  advantages  would  accrue,  beyond  the  addition  of  forty  thou- 
sand children  to  the  birth-rate,  and  one  advantage  that  seemed  to 
him  to  exceed  the  original  advantage  would  be  the  nationalization 
of  religion,  the  formation  of  an  Irish  Catholicism  suited  to  the  ideas 
and  needs  of  the  Irish  people. 

In  the  beginning  of  the  century  the  Irish  lost  their  language,  in 
the  middle  of  the  century  the  characteristic  aspects  of  their  reli- 
gion. It  was  Cardinal  Cullen  who  had  denationalized  religion  in  Ire- 
land. But  everyone  recognized  his  mistake.  How  could  a  church  be 
nationalized  better  than  by  the  rescission  of  the  decree  of  celibacy? 
The  begetting  of  children  would  attach  the  priests  to  the  soil  of  Ire- 
land; and  it  could  not  be  said  that  anyone  loved  his  country  who 
did  not  contribute  to  its  maintenance.  The  priests  leave  Ireland 
on  foreign  missions,  and  every  Catholic  who  leaves  Ireland,  he  said, 
helps  to  bring  about  the  very  thing  that  Ireland  has  been  struggling 
against  for  centuries — Protestantism. 

His  idea  talked  to  him  every  evening,  and,  one  evening,  it  said, 
'Religion,  like  everything  else,  must  be  national,'  and  it  led  him  to 
contrast  cosmopolitanism  with  parochialism.  'Religion,  like  art, 
came  out  of  parishes,'  he  said.  He  felt  a  great  force  to  be  behind 
him.  He  must  write!  He  must  write  .  .  . 

He  dropped  the  ink  over  the  table  and  over  the  paper,  he  jotted 
down  his  ideas  in  the  first  words  that  came  to  him  until  midnight; 
and  when  he  slept  his  letter  floated  through  his  sleep. 


166  GEORGE   MOORE 

1  must  have  a  clear  copy  of  it  before  I  begin  the  Latin  transla- 
tion/ 

He  had  written  the  English  text  thinking  of  the  Latin  that  would 
come  after,  very  conscious  of  the  fact  that  he  had  written  no  Latin 
since  he  had  left  Maynooth,  and  that  a  bad  translation  would  dis- 
credit his  ideas  in  the  eyes  of  the  Pope's  secretary,  who  was  doubt- 
less a  great  Latin  scholar. 

'The  Irish  priests  have  always  been  good  Latinists,'  he  mur- 
mured, as  he  hunted  through  the  dictionary. 

The  table  was  littered  with  books,  for  he  had  found  it  necessary 
to  create  a  Latin  atmosphere,  and  one  morning  he  finished  his 
translation  and  walked  to  the  whitening  window  to  rest  his  eyes 
before  reading  it  over.  But  he  was  too  tired  to  do  any  more,  and  he 
laid  his  manuscript  on  the  table  by  his  bedside. 

'This  is  very  poor  Latin,'  he  said  to  himself  some  hours  later,  and 
the  manuscript  lay  on  the  floor  while  he  dressed.  It  was  his  servant 
who  brought  it  to  him  when  he  had  finished  his  breakfast,  and,  tak- 
ing it  from  her,  he  looked  at  it  again. 

Tt  is  as  tasteless,'  he  said,  'as  the  gruel  that  poor  James  Murdoch 
is  eating.'  He  picked  up  St.  Augustine's  Confessions.  'Here  is  idiom,' 
he  muttered,  and  he  continued  reading  till  he  was  interrupted  by 
the  wheels  of  a  car  stopping  at  his  door.  It  was  Meehan!  None  had 
written  such  good  Latin  at  Maynooth  as  Meehan. 

'My  dear  Meehan,  this  is  indeed  a  pleasant  surprise/ 

T  thought  I'd  like  to  see  you.  I  drove  over.  But — I  am  not  disturb- 
ing you.  .  .  .  You've  taken  to  reading  again.  St.  Augustine!  And 
you're  writing  in  Latin!' 

Father  James's  face  grew  red,  and  he  took  the  manuscript  out  of 
his  friend's  hand. 

'No,  you  mustn't  look  at  that/ 

And  then  the  temptation  to  ask  him  to  overlook  certain  passages 
made  him  change  his  mind. 

'I  was  never  much  of  a  Latin  scholar/ 

'And  you  want  me  to  overlook  your  Latin  for  you.  But  why  are 
you  writing  Latin?' 

'Because  I  am  writing  to  the  Pope.  I  was  at  first  a  little  doubtful, 
but  the  more  I  thought  of  this  letter  the  more  necessary  it  seemed 
to  me/ 

'And  what  are  you  writing  to  the  Pope  about?' 

'You  see  Ireland  is  going  to  become  a  Protestant  country/ 


A  LETTER  TO  ROME  167 

'Is  it?'  said  Father  Meehan,  and  he  listened  a  little  while.  Then, 
interrupting  his  friend,  he  said: 

I've  heard  enough.  Now,  I  strongly  advise  you  not  to  send  this 
letter.  We  have  known  each  other  all  our  lives.  Now,  my  dear  Mac- 
Turnan ' 

Father  Michael  talked  eagerly,  and  Father  MacTurnan  sat  listen- 
ing. At  last  Father  Meehan  saw  that  his  arguments  were  producing 
no  effect,  and  he  said: 

'You  don't  agree  with  me/ 

'It  isn't  that  I  don't  agree  with  you.  You  have  spoken  admirably 
from  your  point  of  view,  but  our  points  of  view  are  different.' 

'Take  your  papers  away,  burn  them!' 

Then,  thinking  his  words  were  harsh,  he  laid  his  hand  on  his 
friend's  shoulder  and  said: 

'My  dear  MacTurnan,  I  beg  of  you  not  to  send  this  letter.' 

Father  James  did  not  answer;  the  silence  grew  painful,  and 
Father  Michael  asked  Father  James  to  show  him  the  relief  works 
that  the  Government  had  ordered. 

But  important  as  these  works  were,  the  letter  to  Rome  seemed 
more  important  to  Father  Michael,  and  he  said: 

'My  good  friend,  there  isn't  a  girl  that  would  marry  us;  now  is 
there?  There  isn't  a  girl  in  Ireland  who  would  touch  us  with  a  forty- 
foot  pole.  Would  you  have  the  Pope  release  the  nuns  from  their 
vows?' 

'I  think  exceptions  should  be  made  in  favour  of  those  in  Orders. 
But  I  think  it  would  be  for  the  good  of  Ireland  if  the  secular  clergy 
were  married.' 

'That's  not  my  point.  My  point  is  that  even  if  the  decree  were 
rescinded  we  shouldn't  be  able  to  get  wives.  You've  been  living  too 
long  in  the  waste,  my  dear  friend.  You've  lost  yourself  in  dreams.  We 
shouldn't  get  a  penny.  "Why  should  we  support  that  fellow  and  his 
family?"  is  what  they'd  be  saying.' 

'We  should  be  poor,  no  doubt,'  said  Father  James.  'But  not  so 
poor  as  our  parishioners.  My  parishioners  eat  yellow  meal,  and  I 
eat  eggs  and  live  in  a  good  house.' 

'We  are  educated  men,  and  should  live  in  better  houses  than  our 
parishioners.' 

'The  greatest  saints  lived  in  deserts/ 

And  so  the  argument  went  on  until  the  rime  came  to  say  good- 
bye, and  then  Father  James  said: 


168  GEORGE    MOORE 

1  shall  be  glad  if  you  will  give  me  a  lift  on  your  car.  I  want  to  go 
to  the  post-office.' 

'To  post  your  letter?' 

'The  idea  came  to  me — it  came  swiftly  like  a  lightning-flash,  and 
I  can't  believe  that  it  was  an  accident.  If  it  had  fallen  into  your 
mind  with  the  suddenness  that  it  fell  into  mine,  you  would  believe 
that  it  was  an  inspiration.' 

It  would  take  a  good  deal  to  make  me  believe  I  was  inspired,' 
said  Father  Michael,  and  he  watched  Father  James  go  into  the  post- 
office  to  register  his  letter. 

At  that  hour  a  long  string  of  peasants  returning  from  their  work 
went  by.  The  last  was  Norah  Flynn,  and  the  priest  blushed  deeply 
for  it  was  the  first  time  he  had  looked  on  one  of  his  parishioners  in 
the  light  of  a  possible  spouse;  and  he  entered  his  house  frightened; 
and  when  he  looked  round  his  parlour  he  asked  himself  if  the  day 
would  come  when  he  should  see  Norah  Flynn  sitting  opposite  to 
him  in  his  armchair.  His  face  flushed  deeper  when  he  looked  to- 
wards the  bedroom  door,  and  he  fell  on  his  knees  and  prayed  that 
God's  will  might  be  made  known  to  him. 

During  the  night  he  awoke  many  times,  and  the  dream  that  had 
awakened  him  continued  when  he  had  left  his  bed,  and  he  wan- 
dered round  and  round  the  room  in  the  darkness,  seeking  a  way.  At 
last  he  reached  the  window  and  drew  the  curtain,  and  saw  the 
dim  dawn  opening  out  over  the  bog. 

'Thank  God,'  he  said,  'it  was  only  a  dream — only  a  dream/ 

And  lying  down  he  fell  asleep,  but  immediately  another  dream  as 
horrible  as  the  first  appeared,  and  his  housekeeper  heard  him  beat- 
ing on  the  walls. 

'Only  a  dream,  only  a  dream,'  he  said. 

He  lay  awake,  not  daring  to  sleep  lest  he  might  dream.  And  it 
was  about  seven  o'clock  when  he  heard  his  housekeeper  telling 
him  that  the  inspector  had  come  to  tell  him  they  must  decide  what 
direction  the  new  road  should  take.  In  the  inspector's  opinion  it 
should  run  parallel  with  the  old  road.  To  continue  the  old  road  two 
miles  further  would  involve  extra  labour;  the  people  would  have  to 
go  further  to  their  work,  and  the  stones  would  have  to  be  drawn 
further.  The  priest  held  that  the  extra  labour  was  of  secondary  im- 
portance. He  said  that  to  make  two  roads  running  parallel  with 
each  other  would  be  a  wanton  humiliation  to  the  people. 

But  the  inspector  could  not  appreciate  the  priest's  arguments. 


A   LETTER   TO   ROME  169 

He  held  that  the  people  were  thinking  only  how  they  might  earn 
enough  money  to  fill  their  bellies. 

'I  don't  agree  with  you,  I  don't  agree  with  you,'  said  the  priest. 
'Better  go  in  the  opposite  direction  and  make  a  road  to  the  sea.' 

'You  see,  your  reverence,  the  Government  don't  wish  to  engage 
upon  any  work  that  will  benefit  any  special  class.  These  are  my  in- 
structions.' 

'A  road  to  the  sea  will  benefit  no  one.  ...  I  see  you  are  thinking 
of  the  landlord.  But  there  isn't  a  harbour;  no  boat  ever  comes  into 
that  flat,  waste  sea.' 

'Well,  your  reverence,  one  of  these  days  a  harbour  may  be  made. 
An  arch  would  look  well  in  the  middle  of  the  bog,  and  the  people 
wouldn't  have  to  go  far  to  their  work.' 

'No,  no.  A  road  to  the  sea  will  be  quite  useless;  but  its  futility 
will  not  be  apparent — at  least,  not  so  apparent — and  the  people's 
hearts  won't  be  broken.' 

The  inspector  seemed  a  little  doubtful,  but  the  priest  assured  him 
that  the  futility  of  the  road  would  satisfy  English  ministers. 

'And  yet  these  English  ministers,'  the  priest  reflected,  'are  not 
stupid  men;  they're  merely  men  blinded  by  theory  and  prejudice, 
as  all  men  are  who  live  in  the  world.  Their  folly  will  be  apparent 
to  the  next  generation,  and  so  on  and  so  on  for  ever  and  ever,  world 
without  end.' 

'And  the  worst  of  it  is,'  the  priest  said,  'while  the  people  are  earn- 
ing their  living  on  these  roads,  their  fields  will  be  lying  idle,  and 
there  will  be  no  crops  next  year.' 

'We  can't  help  that,'  the  inspector  answered,  and  Father  Mac- 
Turnan  began  to  think  of  the  cardinals  and  the  transaction  of  busi- 
ness in  the  Vatican;  cardinals  and  ministers  alike  are  the  dupes  of 
convention.  Only  those  who  are  estranged  from  habits  and  cus- 
toms can  think  straightforwardly. 

'If,  instead  of  insisting  on  these  absurd  roads,  the  Government 
would  give  me  the  money,  I'd  be  able  to  feed  the  people  at  a  cost 
of  about  a  penny  a  day,  and  they'd  be  able  to  sow  their  potatoes. 
And  if  only  the  cardinals  would  consider  the  rescission  of  the  decree 
on  its  merits,  Ireland  would  be  saved  from  Protestantism.' 

Some  cardinal  was  preparing  an  answer — an  answer  might  be 
even  in  the  post.  Rome  might  not  think  his  letter  worthy  of  an 
answer. 

A  few  days  afterwards  the  inspector  called  to  show  him  a  letter 


170  GEORGE    MOORE 

he  had  just  received  from  the  Board  of  Works.  Father  James  had  to 
go  to  Dublin,  and  in  the  excitement  of  these  philanthropic  activi- 
ties the  emigration  question  was  forgotten.  Six  weeks  must  have 
gone  by  when  the  postman  handed  him  a  letter. 

'This  is  a  letter  from  Father  Moran,'  he  said  to  the  inspector  who 
was  with  him  at  the  time.  'The  Bishop  wishes  to  see  me.  We  will 
continue  the  conversation  to-morrow.  It  is  eight  miles  to  Rathowen, 
and  how  much  further  is  the  Palace?' 

'A  good  seven,'  said  the  inspector.  'You're  not  going  to  walk  it, 
your  reverence?' 

'Why  not?  In  four  hours  I  shall  be  there.'  He  looked  at  his  boots 
first,  and  hoped  they  would  hold  together;  and  then  he  looked  at 
the  sky,  and  hoped  it  would  not  rain. 

There  was  no  likelihood  of  rain;  no  rain  would  fall  today  out  of 
that  soft  dove-coloured  sky  full  of  sun;  ravishing  little  breezes  lifted 
the  long  heather,  the  rose-coloured  hair  of  the  knolls,  and  over  the 
cutaway  bog  wild  white  cotton  was  blowing.  Now  and  then  a 
yellow-hammer  rose  out  of  the  coarse  grass  and  flew  in  front  of  the 
priest,  and  once  a  pair  of  grouse  left  the  sunny  hillside  where  they 
were  nesting  with  a  great  whirr;  they  did  not  go  far,  but  alighted 
in  a  hollow,  and  the  priest  could  see  their  heads  above  the  heather 
watching  him. 

'The  moment  I'm  gone  they'll  return  to  their  nest.' 

He  walked  on,  and  when  he  had  walked  six  miles  he  sat  down 
and  took  a  piece  of  bread  out  of  his  pocket.  As  he  ate  it  his  eyes 
wandered  over  the  undulating  bog,  brown  and  rose,  marked  here 
and  there  by  a  black  streak  where  the  peasants  had  been  cutting 
turf.  The  sky  changed  very  little;  it  was  still  a  pale,  dove  colour; 
now  and  then  a  little  blue  showed  through  the  grey,  and  sometimes 
the  light  lessened;  but  a  few  minutes  after  the  sunlight  fluttered  out 
of  the  sky  again  and  dozed  among  the  heather. 

1  must  be  getting  on,'  he  said,  and  he  looked  into  the  brown 
water,  fearing  he  would  find  none  other  to  slake  his  thirst.  But  just 
as  he  stooped  he  caught  sight  of  a  woman  driving  an  ass  who  had 
come  to  the  bog  for  turf,  and  she  told  him  where  he  would  find  a 
spring,  and  he  thought  he  had  never  drunk  anything  so  sweet  as 
this  water. 

'I've  got  a  good  long  way  to  go  yet,'  he  said,  and  he  walked 
studying  the  lines  of  the  mountains,  thinking  he  could  distinguish 
one  hill  from  the  other;  and  that  in  another  mile  or  two  he  would 


A   LETTER   TO   ROME  171 

be  out  of  the  bog.  The  road  ascended,  and  on  the  other  side  there 
were  a  few  pines.  Some  hundred  yards  further  on  there  was  a 
green  sod.  But  the  heather  appeared  again,  and  he  had  walked 
ten  miles  before  he  was  clear  of  whins  and  heather. 

As  he  walked  he  thought  of  his  interview  with  the  Bishop,  and 
was  nearly  at  the  end  of  his  journey  when  he  stopped  at  a  cabin  to 
mend  his  shoe.  And  while  the  woman  was  looking  for  a  needle  and 
thread,  he  mopped  his  face  with  a  great  red  handkerchief  that  he 
kept  in  the  pocket  of  his  threadbare  coat — a  coat  that  had  once  been 
black,  but  had  grown  green  with  age  and  weather.  He  had  out- 
walked himself,  and  would  not  be  able  to  answer  the  points  that 
the  Bishop  would  raise.  The  woman  found  him  a  scrap  of  leather, 
and  it  took  him  an  hour  to  patch  his  shoe  under  the  hawthorn 
tree. 

He  was  still  two  miles  from  the  Palace,  and  arrived  footsore, 
covered  with  dust,  and  so  tired  that  he  could  hardly  rise  from  the 
chair  to  receive  Father  Moran  when  he  came  into  the  parlour. 

'You  seem  to  have  walked  a  long  way,  Father  MacTurnan.' 

1  shall  be  all  right  presently.  I  suppose  his  Grace  doesn't  want  to 
see  me  at  once/ 

'Well,  that's  just  it.  His  Grace  sent  me  to  say  he  would  see  you 
at  once.  He  expected  you  earlier.' 

'I  started  the  moment  I  received  his  Grace's  letter.  I  suppose  his 
Grace  wishes  to  see  me  regarding  my  letter  to  Rome.' 

The  secretary  hesitated,  coughed,  and  went  out,  and  Father  Mac- 
Turnan wondered  why  Father  Moran  looked  at  him  so  intently.  He 
returned  in  a  few  minutes,  saying  that  his  Grace  was  sorry  that 
Father  MacTurnan  had  had  so  long  a  walk,  and  he  hoped  he  would 
rest  awhile  and  partake  of  some  refreshment.  .  .  .  The  servant 
brought  in  some  wine  and  sandwiches,  and  the  secretary  returned  in 
haJf  an  hour.  His  Grace  was  now  ready  to  receive  him.  .  .  . 

Father  Moran  opened  the  library  door,  and  Father  MacTurnan 
saw  the  Bishop — a  short,  alert  man,  about  fifty-five,  with  a  sharp 
nose  and  grey  eyes  and  bushy  eyebrows.  He  popped  about  the 
room  giving  his  secretary  many  orders,  and  Father  MacTurnan 
wondered  if  the  Bishop  would  ever  finish  talking  to  his  secretary. 
He  seemed  to  have  finished,  but  a  thought  suddenly  struck  him,  and 
he  followed  his  secretary  to  the  door,  and  Father  MacTurnan  be- 
gan to  fear  that  the  Pope  had  not  decided  to  place  the  Irish  clergy 
on  the  same  footing  as  the  Greek.  If  he  had,  the  Bishop's  interest 


172  GEORGE   MOORE 

in  these  many  various  matters  would  have  subsided:  his  mind 
would  be  engrossed  by  the  larger  issue. 

As  he  returned  from  the  door  his  Grace  passed  Father  Mac- 
Turnan  without  speaking  to  him,  and  going  to  his  writing-table  he 
began  to  search  amid  his  papers.  At  last  Father  MacTurnan  said: 

'Maybe  your  Grace  is  looking  for  my  letter  to  Rome?' 

'Yes,'  said  his  Grace,  'do  you  see  it?' 

'It's  under  your  Grace's  hand,  those  blue  papers.' 

'Ah,  yes,'  and  his  Grace  leaned  back  in  his  armchair,  leaving 
Father  MacTurnan  standing. 

'Won't  you  sit  down,  Father  MacTurnan?'  he  said  casually. 
'You've  been  writing  to  Rome,  I  see,  advocating  the  revocation  of 
the  decree  of  celibacy.  There's  no  doubt  the  emigration  of  Catho- 
lics is  a  very  serious  question.  So  far  you  have  got  the  sympathy  of 
Rome,  and  I  may  say  of  myself;  but  am  I  to  understand  that  it  was 
your  fear  for  the  religious  safety  of  Ireland  that  prompted  you  to 
write  this  letter?' 

'What  other  reason  could  there  be?' 

Nothing  was  said  for  a  long  while,  and  then  the  Bishop's  meaning 
began  to  break  in  on  his  mind;  his  face  flushed,  and  he  grew  con- 
fused. 

'I  hope  your  Grace  doesn't  think  for  a  moment  that ' 

'I  only  want  to  know  if  there  is  anyone — if  your  eyes  ever  went 
in  a  certain  direction,  if  your  thoughts  ever  said,  "Well,  if  the  decree 
were  revoked — " ' 

'No,  your  Grace,  no.  Celibacy  has  been  no  burden  to  me — far 
from  it.  Sometimes  I  feared  that  it  was  celibacy  that  attracted  me 
to  the  priesthood.  Celibacy  was  a  gratification  rather  than  a  sacri- 
fice/ 

'I  am  glad,'  said  the  Bishop,  and  he  spoke  slowly  and  emphati- 
cally, 'that  this  letter  was  prompted  by  such  impersonal  motives.' 

'Surely,  your  Grace,  His  Holiness  didn't  suspect ' 

The  Bishop  murmured  an  euphonious  Italian  name,  and  Father 
MacTurnan  understood  that  he  was  speaking  of  one  of  the  Pope's 
secretaries. 

'More  than  once,'  said  Father  MacTurnan,  'I  feared  if  the  decree 
were  revoked,  I  shouldn't  have  had  sufficient  courage  to  comply 
with  it.' 

And  then  he  told  the  Bishop  how  he  had  met  Norah  Flynn  on 


A   LETTER   TO   ROME  173 

the  road.  An  amused  expression  stole  into  the  Bishop's  face,  and  his 
voice  changed. 

1  presume  you  do  not  contemplate  making  marriage  obligatory; 
you  do  not  contemplate  the  suspension  of  the  faculties  of  those 
who  do  not  take  wives?' 

'It  seems  to  me  that  exception  should  be  made  in  favour  of  those 
in  orders,  and  of  course  in  favour  of  those  who  have  reached  a  cer- 
tain age  like  your  Grace.' 

The  Bishop  coughed,  and  pretended  to  look  for  some  paper 
which  he  had  mislaid. 

'This  was  one  of  the  many  points  that  I  discussed  with  Father 
Michael  Meehan.' 

'Oh,  so  you  consulted  Father  Meehan,'  the  Bishop  said,  looking 
up. 

'He  came  in  the  day  I  was  reading  over  my  Latin  translation  be- 
fore posting  it.  I'm  afraid  the  ideas  that  I  submitted  to  the  consider- 
ation of  His  Holiness  have  been  degraded  by  my  very  poor  Latin.  I 
should  have  wished  Father  Meehan  to  overlook  my  Latin,  but  he 
refused.  He  begged  of  me  not  to  send  the  letter.' 

'Father  Meehan,'  said  his  Grace,  'is  a  great  friend  of  yours.  Yet 
nothing  he  could  say  could  shake  your  resolution  to  write  to  Rome?' 

'Nothing,'  said  Father  MacTurnan.  'The  call  I  received  was  too 
distinct  and  too  clear  for  me  to  hesitate.' 

'Tell  me  about  this  call.' 

Father  MacTurnan  told  the  Bishop  that  the  poor  man  had  come 
out  of  the  workhouse  because  he  wanted  to  be  married,  and  that 
Mike  Mulhare  would  not  give  him  his  daughter  until  he  had 
earned  the  price  of  a  pig.  'And  as  I  was  talking  to  him  I  heard  my 
conscience  say,  "No  one  can  afford  to  marry  in  Ireland  but  the 
clergy."  We  all  live  better  than  our  parishioners.' 

And  then,  forgetting  the  Bishop,  and  talking  as  if  he  were  alone 
with  his  God,  he  described  how  the  conviction  had  taken  possession 
of  him — that  Ireland  would  become  a  Protestant  country  if  the 
Catholic  emigration  did  not  cease.  And  he  told  how  this  conviction 
had  left  him  little  peace  until  he  had  written  his  letter. 

The  priest  talked  on  until  he  was  interrupted  by  Father  Moran. 

T  have  some  business  to  transact  with  Father  Moran  now,'  the 
Bishop  said,  'but  you  must  stay  to  dinner.  You've  walked  a  long 
way,  and  you  are  tired  and  hungry.' 


174  GEORGE   MOORE 

'But,  your  Grace,  if  I  don't  start  now,  I  shan't  get  home  until 
nightfall/ 

'A  car  will  take  you  back,  Father  MacTurnan.  I  will  see  to  that.  I 
must  have  some  exact  information  about  your  poor  people.  We  must 
do  something  for  them.' 

Father  MacTurnan  and  the  Bishop  were  talking  together  when 
the  car  came  to  take  Father  MacTurnan  home,  and  the  Bishop  said: 

'Father  MacTurnan,  you  have  borne  the  loneliness  of  your  par- 
ish a  long  while.' 

'Loneliness  is  only  a  matter  of  habit.  I  think,  your  Grace,  I'm 
better  suited  to  the  place  than  I  am  for  any  other.  I  don't  wish  any 
change  if  your  Grace  is  satisfied  with  me.' 

'No  one  will  look  after  the  poor  people  better  than  yourself, 
Father  MacTurnan.  But,'  he  said,  'it  seems  to  me  there  is  one 
thing  we  have  forgotten.  You  haven't  told  me  if  you  have  suc- 
ceeded in  getting  the  money  to  buy  the  pig.' 

Father  MacTurnan  grew  very  red.  ...  'I  had  forgotten  it.  The 
relief  works ' 

'It's  not  too  late.  Here's  five  pounds,  and  this  will  buy  him  a  pig.' 

'It  will  indeed,'  said  the  priest,  'it  will  buy  him  two!' 

He  had  left  the  Palace  without  having  asked  the  Bishop  how  his 
letter  had  been  received  at  Rome,  and  he  stopped  the  car,  and  was 
about  to  tell  the  driver  to  go  back.  But  no  matter,  he  would  hear 
about  his  letter  some  other  time.  He  was  bringing  happiness  to 
two  poor  people,  and  he  could  not  persuade  himself  to  delay  their 
happiness  by  one  minute.  He  was  not  bringing  one  pig,  but  two 
pigs,  and  now  Mike  Mulhare  would  have  to  give  him  Norah  and  a 
calf;  and  the  priest  remembered  that  James  Murdoch  had  said 
— 'What  a  fine  house  this  will  be  to  rear  them  in.'  There  were  many 
who  thought  that  human  beings  and  animals  should  not  live  to- 
gether; but  after  all,  what  did  it  matter  if  they  were  happy?  And 
the  priest  forgot  his  letter  to  Rome  in  the  thought  of  the  happiness 
he  was  bringing  to  two  poor  people.  He  could  not  see  Norah 
Mulhare  that  night;  but  he  drove  down  to  the  famine  road,  and 
he  and  the  driver  called  till  they  awoke  James  Murdoch.  The  poor 
man  came  stumbling  across  the  bog,  and  the  priest  told  him  the 
news. 


A  Theological  Fork1 

1  he  castle  hall  was  empty  and  grey,  only  the  autumn  dusk  in  the 
Gothic  window;  and  the  shuffle  of  the  octogenarian  butler  sounded 
very  dismal  as  he  pottered  across  the  tessellated  pavement.  On 
learning  from  him  that  Mr.  Martyn  was  still  writing,  I  wandered 
from  the  organ  into  the  morning-room,  and  sat  by  the  fire,  waiting 
for  Edward's  footstep.  It  came  towards  me  about  half  an  hour 
afterwards,  slow  and  ponderous,  not  at  all  like  the  step  of  the  suc- 
cessful dramatist;  and  my  suspicions  that  his  third  act  was  failing 
him  were  aggravated  by  his  unwillingness  to  tell  me  about  the  altera- 
tions he  was  making  in  it.  All  he  could  tell  me  was  that  he  had 
been  in  Maynooth  last  summer,  and  had  heard  the  priests  de- 
claring that  they  refused  to  stultify  themselves;  and  as  the  word 
seemed  to  him  typical  of  the  country  he  would  put  it  frequently 
into  the  mouths  of  his  politicians. 

How  drama  was  to  arise  out  of  the  verb,  to  stultify,  did  not  seem 
clear,  and  in  the  middle  of  my  embarrassment  he  asked  me  where 
I  had  been  all  the  afternoon,  brightening  up  somewhat  when  I  told 
him  that  I  had  been  to  Coole.  In  a  curious  detached  way  he  is  al- 
ways eager  for  a  gossip,  and  we  talked  of  Yeats  and  Lady  Gregory 
for  a  long  time,  and  of  our  walk  round  the  lake,  Edward  rousing 
from  my  description  of  the  swans  to  ask  me  where  I  had  left  the 
poet. 

At  the  gate. 

Why  didn't  you  ask  him  to  stay  for  dinner?  And  while  I  sought 
for  an  answer,  he  added:  Maybe  it's  just  as  well  you  didn't,  for  to- 
day is  Friday  and  the  salmon  I  was  expecting  from  Galway  hasn't 
arrived. 

But  Yeats  and  I  aren't  Catholics. 

My  house  is  a  Catholic  house,  and  those  who  don't  care  to  con- 
form to  the  rule 

Your  dogmatism  exceeds  that  of  an  Archbishop;  and  I  told  him 
that  I  had  heard  my  father  say  that  the  Archbishop  of  Tuam,  Dr. 
McHale,  had  meat  always  on  his  table  on  Friday,  and  when 
asked  how  this  was,  answered  that  he  didn't  know  who  had  gotten 
dispensations  and  who  hadn't.  Edward  muttered  that  he  was  not  to 


1  From  Hail  And  Farewell:  Ave,  London,  1911.  Text  from  N.Y.  edition  of  1925. 

175 


176  GEORGE    MOORE 

be  taken  in  by  such  remarks  about  dispensations;  he  knew  very  well 
I  had  never  troubled  to  ask  for  one. 

Why  should  I,  since  I'm  not  a  Catholic? 

If  you  aren't  a  Catholic,  why  don't  you  become  a  Protestant? 

In  the  first  place,  one  doesn't  become  a  Protestant,  one  discovers 
oneself  a  Protestant;  and  it  seems  to  me  that  an  Agnostic  has  as 
much  right  to  eat  meat  on  Friday  as  a  Protestant. 

Agnosticism  isn't  a  religion.  It  contains  no  dogma. 

It  comes  to  this,  then:  that  you're  going  to  make  me  dine  off  a 
couple  of  boiled  eggs.  And  I  walked  about  the  room,  indignant,  but 
not  because  I  care  much  about  my  food — two  eggs  and  a  potato  are 
more  agreeable  to  me  in  intelligent  society  than  grouse  would  be 
in  stupid.  But  two  eggs  and  a  potato  forced  down  my  throat  on  a 
theological  fork  in  a  Gothic  house  that  had  cost  twenty  thousand 
pounds  to  build — two  eggs  and  a  potato,  without  hope  of  cheese! 
The  Irish  do  not  eat  cheese,  and  I  am  addicted  to  it,  especially  to 
Double  Gloucester.  In  my  school-days  that  cheese  was  a  wonderful 
solace  in  my  life,  but  after  leaving  school  I  asked  for  it  in  vain,  and 
gave  up  hope  of  ever  eating  it  again.  It  was  not  till  the  'nineties 
that  a  waiter  mentioned  it.  Stilton,  sir;  Chester,  Double  Gloucester 

Double  Gloucester!  You  have  Double  Gloucester!  I  thought  it 

extinct.  You  have  it?  Then  bring  it,  I  cried,  and  so  joyfully  that  he 
couldn't  drag  himself  from  my  sight.  An  excellent  cheese,  I  told 
him,  but  somewhat  fallen  from  the  high  standard  it  had  assumed  in 
my  imagination.  Even  so,  if  there  had  been  a  slice  of  Double 
Gloucester  in  the  larder  at  Tillyra,  I  should  not  have  minded  the 
absence  of  the  salmon,  and  if  Edward  had  pleaded  that  his  servants 
would  be  scandalised  to  see  any  one  who  was  supposed  to  be  a 
Catholic  eat  meat  on  Fridays,  I  should  have  answered:  But  every- 
body knows  I'm  not  a  Catholic.  I've  written  it  in  half  a  dozen 
books.  And  if  Edward  had  said:  But  my  servants  don't  read  your 
books;  I  shall  be  obliged  if  you'll  put  up  with  fasting  fare  for 
once,  I  would  have  eaten  an  egg  and  a  potato  without  murmur  or 
remark.  But  to  be  told  I  must  dine  off  two  eggs  and  a  potato,  so  that 
his  conscience  should  not  be  troubled  during  the  night,  worried  me, 
and  I  am  afraid  I  cast  many  an  angry  look  across  the  table.  An 
apple-pie  came  up  and  some  custards,  and  these  soothed  me;  he  dis- 
covered some  marmalade  in  a  cupboard,  and  Edward  is  such  a  so- 
ciable being  when  his  pipe  is  alight,  that  I  forgave  his  theological 
prejudices  for  the  sake  of  his  aesthetic.  We  peered  into  reproduc- 


A   THEOLOGICAL   FORK  177 

tions  of  Fra  Angelico's  frescoes,  and  studied  Leonardo's  sketches  for 
draperies.  Edward  liked  Ibsen  from  the  beginning,  and  will  like  him 
to  the  end,  and  Swift.  But  he  cannot  abide  Schumann's  melodies. 
We  had  often  talked  of  these  great  men  and  their  works,  but  never 
did  he  talk  as  delightfully  as  on  that  Friday  evening  right  on  into 
Saturday  morning.  Nor  was  it  till  Sunday  morning  that  his  soul 
began  to  trouble  him  again.  As  I  was  finishing  breakfast,  he  had  the 
cheek  to  ask  me  to  get  ready  to  go  to  Mass. 

But,  Edward,  I  don't  believe  in  the  Mass.  My  presence  will  be 
only 

Will  you  hold  your  tongue,  George?  .  .  .  and  not  give  scandal, 
he  answered,  his  voice  trembling  with  emotion. 

Everybody  knows  that  I  don't  believe  in  the  Mass. 

If  you  aren't  a  Catholic,  why  don't  you  become  a  Protestant? 
And  he  began  pushing  me  from  behind. 

I  have  told  you  before  that  one  may  become  a  Catholic,  but  one 
discovers  oneself  a  Protestant.  But  why  am  I  going  to  Gort? 

Because  you  had  the  bad  taste  to  describe  our  church  in  A 
Drama  in  Muslin,  and  to  make  such  remarks  about  our  parish 
priest  that  he  said,  if  you  showed  yourself  in  Ardrahan  again,  he'd 
throw  dirty  water  over  you. 

If  you  send  me  to  Gort,  I  shall  be  able  to  describe  Father 's 

church. 

Will  you  not  be  delaying? 

One  word  more.  It  isn't  on  account  of  my  description  of  Father 

's  church  that  you  won't  take  me  to  Ardrahan:  the  real  reason  is 

because,  at  your  request,  mind  you,  I  asked  Father not  to  spit 

upon  your  carpet  when  he  came  to  dinner  at  Tillyra.  You  were 
afraid  to  ask  a  priest  to  refrain  from  any  of  his  habits,  and  left  the 
room. 

I  only  asked  you  to  draw  his  attention  to  the  spittoon. 

Which  I  did;  but  he  said  such  things  were  only  a  botheration, 
and  my  admonitions  on  the  virtue  of  cleanliness  angered  him  so 
that  he  never 

You'll  be  late  for  Mass.  And  you,  Whelan;  now,  are  you  listening 
to  me?  Do  you  hear  me?  You  aren't  to  spare  the  whip.  Away  you 
go;  you'll  only  be  just  in  time.  And  you,  Whelan,  you're  not  to  de- 
lay putting  up  the  horse.  Do  you  hear  me? 

Whelan  drove  away  rapidly,  and  when  I  looked  back  I  saw  my 
friend  hurrying  across  the  park,  tumbling  into  the  sunk  fence  in  his 


178  GEORGE    MOORE 

anxiety  not  to  miss  the  Confiteor,  and  Whelan,  who  saw  the  acci- 
dent, too,  feared  that  the  masther  is  after  hurting  himself.  Happily 
this  was  not  so.  Edward  was  soon  on  his  feet  again,  running  across 
the  field  like  a  hare,  the  driver  said— out  of  politeness,  I  suppose. 

Hardly  like  a  hare,  I  said,  hoping  to  draw  a  more  original  simile 
from  Whelan's  rustic  mind;  but  he  only  coughed  a  little,  and  shook 
up  the  reins  which  he  held  in  a  shapeless,  freckled  hand. 

Do  you  like  the  parish  priest  at  Gort  better  than  Father at 

Ardrahan? 

They're  well  matched,  Whelan  answered — a  thick-necked,  long- 
bodied  fellow  with  a  rim  of  faded  hair  showing  under  a  bowler-hat 
that  must  have  been  about  the  stables  for  years,  collecting  dust  along 
the  corn-bin  and  getting  greasy  in  the  harness-room.  One  reasoned 
that  it  must  have  been  black  once  upon  a  time,  and  that  Whelan 
must  have  been  a  young  man  long  ago;  and  one  reasoned  that  he 
must  have  shaved  last  week,  or  three  weeks  ago,  for  there  was  a 
stubble  on  his  chin.  But  in  spite  of  reason,  Whelan  seemed  like 
something  that  had  always  been,  some  old  rock  that  had  lain  among 
the  bramble  since  the  days  of  Finn  MacCoole,  and  his  sullenness 
seemed  as  permanent  as  that  of  the  rocks,  and  his  face,  too, 
seemed  like  a  worn  rock,  for  it  was  without  profile,  and  I  could  only 
catch  sight  of  a  great  flabby  ear  and  a  red,  freckled  neck,  about 
which  was  tied  a  woollen  comforter  that  had  once  been  white. 

He  answered  my  questions  roughly,  without  troubling  to  turn  his 
head,  like  a  man  who  wishes  to  be  left  to  himself;  and  acquiescing 
in  his  humour,  I  fell  to  thinking  of  Father  James  Browne,  the 
parish  priest  of  Carnacun  in  the  'sixties,  and  of  the  day  that  he  came 
over  to  Moore  Hall  in  his  ragged  cassock  and  battered  biretta,  with 
McHale's  Irish  translation  of  Homer  under  his  arm,  saying  that  the 
Archbishop  had  caught  the  Homeric  ring  in  many  a  hexameter.  My 
father  smiled  at  the  priest's  enthusiasm,  but  I  followed  this  tall, 
gaunt  man,  of  picturesque  appearance,  whose  large  nose  with  tufted 
nostrils  I  remember  to  this  day,  into  the  Blue  Room  to  ask  him  if 
the  Irish  were  better  than  the  Greek.  He  was  a  little  loth  to  say  it 
was  not,  but  this  rustic  scholar  did  not  carry  patriotism  into  liter- 
ature, and  he  admitted,  on  being  pressed,  that  he  liked  the  Greek 
better,  and  I  listened  to  his  great  rotund  voice  pouring  through 
his  wide  Irish  mouth  while  he  read  me  some  eight  or  ten  lines  of 
Homer,  calling  my  attention  to  the  famous  line  that  echoes  the 
clash  of  the  wave  on  the  beach  and  the  rustle  of  the  shingle  as  the 


A   THEOLOGICAL   FORK  179 

wave  sinks  back.  My  curiosity  about  McHale's  translation  inter- 
ested him  in  me,  and  it  was  arranged  soon  after  between  him  and 
my  father  that  he  should  teach  me  Latin,  and  I  rode  a  pony  over 
every  morning  to  a  thatched  cottage  under  ilex-trees,  where  the 
pleasantest  hours  of  my  childhood  were  spent  in  a  parlour  lined 
with  books  from  floor  to  ceiling,  reading  there  a  little  Virgil,  and 
persuading  an  old  priest  into  talk  about  Quintilian  and  Seneca.  One 
day  he  spoke  of  Propertius,  and  the  beauty  of  the  name  led  me  to 
ask  Father  James  if  I  might  read  him,  and  not  receiving  a  satis- 
factory answer,  my  curiosity  was  stimulated  and  Caesar  studied 
diligently  for  a  month. 

Shall  I  know  enough  Latin  in  six  months  to  read  Propertius? 

It  will  be  many  years  before  you  will  be  able  to  read  him.  He  is 
a  very  difficult  writer. 

Could  Martin  Blake  read  Propertius? 

Martin  Blake  was  Father  James's  other  pupil,  and  these  Blakes  are 
neighbours  of  ours,  and  live  on  the  far  side  of  Carnacun.  Father 
James  was  always  telling  me  of  the  progress  Martin  was  making  in 
the  Latin  language,  and  I  was  always  asking  Father  James  when  I 
should  overtake  him,  but  he  held  out  very  little  hope  that  it  would 
be  possible  for  me  ever  to  outdo  Martin  in  scholarship.  He  may 
have  said  this  because  he  could  not  look  upon  me  as  a  promising 
pupil,  or  he  may  have  been  moved  by  a  hope  to  start  a  spirit  of 
emulation  in  me.  He  was  a  wise  old  man,  and  the  reader  will  won- 
der how  it  was  that,  with  such  a  natural  interest  in  languages  and 
such  excellent  opportunities,  I  did  not  become  a  classical  scholar; 
the  reader's  legitimate  curiosity  shall  be  satisfied. 

One  day  Father  James  said  the  time  would  come  when  I  would 
give  up  hunting — everything,  for  the  classics,  and  I  rode  home, 
elated,  to  tell  my  mother  the  prophecy.  But  she  burst  out  laughing, 
leaving  me  in  no  doubt  whatever  that  she  looked  upon  Father 
James's  idea  of  me  as  an  excellent  joke;  and  the  tragedy  of  it  all  is 
that  I  accepted  her  casual  point  of  view  without  consideration, 
carrying  it  almost  at  once  into  reality,  playing  truant  instead  of  go- 
ing to  my  Latin  lesson.  Father  James,  divested  of  his  scholarship, 
became  a  mere  priest  in  my  eyes.  I  think  that  I  avoided  him,  and 
am  sure  that  I  hardly  ever  saw  him  again,  except  at  Mass. 

A  strange  old  church  is  Carnacun,  built  in  the  form  of  a  cross, 
with  whitewashed  walls  and  some  hardened  earth  for  floor;  and  I 
should  be  hard  set  to  discover  in  my  childhood  an  earlier  memory 


180  GEORGE   MOORE 

than  the  panelled  roof,  designed  and  paid  for  by  my  father,  who 
had  won  the  Chester  Cup  some  years  before.  The  last  few  hun- 
dred pounds  of  his  good-fortune  were  spent  in  pitch-pine  rafters 
and  boards,  and  he  provided  a  large  picture  of  the  Crucifixion, 
painted  by  my  cousin,  Jim  Browne,  who  happened  to  be  staying  at 
Moore  Hall  at  the  time,  from  Tom  Kelly  the  lodge-keeper,  the  first 
nude  model  that  ever  stood  up  in  Mayo  ( Mayo  has  always  led  the 
way — Ireland's  vanbird  for  sure ) .  It  was  taken  in  great  pomp  from 
Moore  Hall  to  Carnacun;  and  the  hanging  of  it  was  a  great  and 
punctilious  affair.  A  board  had  to  be  nailed  at  the  back  whereby  a 
rope  could  be  attached  to  hoist  it  into  the  roof,  and  lo!  Mickey 
Murphy  drove  a  nail  through  one  of  the  gilt  leaves  which  served  as 
a  sort  of  frame  for  the  picture.  My  father  shouted  his  orders  to  the 
men  in  the  roof  that  they  were  to  draw  up  the  picture  very  slowly, 
and,  lest  it  should  sway  and  get  damaged  in  the  swaying,  strings 
were  attached  to  it.  My  father  and  mother  each  held  a  string,  and 
the  third  may  have  been  held  by  Jim  Browne,  or  perhaps  I  was  al- 
lowed to  hold  it. 

Some  time  afterwards  a  Blessed  Virgin  and  a  St.  Joseph  came 
down  from  Dublin,  and  they  were  painted  and  gilded  by  my 
father,  and  so  beautifully,  that  they  were  the  admiration  of  every 
one  for  a  very  long  while,  and  it  was  Jim  Browne's  Crucifixion 
and  these  anonymous  statues  that  awakened  my  first  aesthetic 
emotions.  I  used  to  look  forward  to  seeing  them  all  the  way  from 
Moore  Hall  to  Carnacun — a  bleak  road  as  soon  as  our  gate-lodge 
was  passed:  on  one  side  a  hill  that  looked  as  if  it  had  been  peeled; 
on  the  other  some  moist  fields,  divided  by  small  stone  walls,  liked 
by  me  in  those  days,  for  they  were  excellent  practice  for  my 
pony.  Along  this  road  our  tenantry  used  to  come  from  their  vil- 
lages, the  women  walking  on  one  side  (the  married  women  in  dark 
blue  cloaks,  the  girls  hiding  their  faces  behind  their  shawls,  carry- 
ing their  boots  in  their  hands,  which  they  would  put  on  in  the 
chapel-yard),  the  men  walking  on  the  other  side,  the  elderly  men 
in  traditional  swallow-tail  coats,  knee-breeches,  and  worsted  stock- 
ings; the  young  men  in  corduroy  trousers  and  frieze  coats.  As  we 
passed,  the  women  curtseyed  in  their  red  petticoats;  the  young 
men  lifted  their  round  bowler-hats;  but  the  old  men  stood  by,  their 
tall  hats  in  their  hands.  At  the  bottom  of  every  one  was  a  red  hand^ 
kerchief,  and  I  remember  wisps  of  grey  hair  floating  in  the  wind 
Our  tenantry  met  the  tenantry  of  Clogher  and  Tower  Hill,  and 


A   THEOLOGICAL   FORK  181 

they  all  collected  round  the  gateway  of  the  chapel  to  admire  the 
carriages  of  their  landlords.  We  were  received  like  royalty  as  we 
turned  in  through  the  gates  and  went  up  the  wooden  staircase  lead- 
ing to  the  gallery,  frequented  by  the  privileged  people  of  the  parish 
— by  us,  and  by  our  servants,  the  postmaster  and  postmistress  from 
Ballyglass,  and  a  few  graziers.  In  the  last  pew  were  the  police, 
and  after  the  landlords  these  were  the  most  respected. 

As  soon  as  we  were  settled  in  our  pew  the  acolytes  ventured 
from  the  sacristy  tinkling  their  bells,  the  priest  following,  carrying 
the  chalice  covered  with  the  veil.  As  the  ceremony  of  the  Mass  was 
never  of  any  interest  to  me,  I  used  to  spend  my  time  looking  over 
the  pew  into  the  body  of  the  church,  wondering  at  the  herd  of 
peasantry,  trying  to  distinguish  our  own  serfs  among  those  from 
the  Tower  Hill  and  Clogher  estates.  Pat  Plunket,  a  highly  respecta- 
ble tenant  (he  owned  a  small  orchard),  I  could  always  discover;  he 
knelt  just  under  us,  and  in  front  of  a  bench,  the  only  one  in  the 
body  of  the  church,  and  about  him  collected  those  few  that  had  be- 
gun to  rise  out  of  brutal  indigence.  Their  dress  and  their  food  were 
slightly  different  from  the  commoner  kind.  Pat  Plunket  and 
Mickey  Murphy,  the  carpenter,  not  the  sawyer,  were  supposed  to 
drink  tea  and  eat  hot  cakes.  The  others  breakfasted  off  Indian-meal 
porridge.  And  to  Pat  Plunket's  bench  used  to  come  a  tall  woman, 
whose  grace  of  body  the  long  blue-black  cloak  of  married  life  could 
not  hide.  I  liked  to  wonder  which  among  the  men  about  her  might 
be  her  husband.  And  a  partial  memory  still  lingers  of  a  cripple  that 
was  allowed  to  avail  himself  of  Pat  Plunket's  bench.  His  crutches, 
were  placed  against  the  wall,  and  used  to  catch  my  eye,  suggesting 
thoughts  of  what  his  embarrassment  would  be  if  they  were  taken 
away  whilst  he  prayed.  A  great  unknown  horde  of  peasantry  from 
Ballyglass  and  beyond  it  knelt  in  the  left-hand  corner,  and  after  the 
Communion  they  came  up  the  church  with  a  great  clatter  of 
brogues  to  hear  the  sermon,  leaving  behind  a  hideous  dwarf 
whom  I  could  not  take  my  eyes  off,  so  strange  was  his  waddle  as 
he  moved  about  the  edge  of  the  crowd,  his  huge  mouth  grinning  all 
the  time. 

Our  pew  was  the  first  on  the  right-hand  side,  and  the  pew  behind 
us  was  the  Clogher  pew,  and  it  was  filled  with  girls — Helena,  Livy, 
Lizzy,  and  May — the  first  girls  I  ever  knew;  and  these  are  now 
under  the  sod — all  except  poor  Livy,  an  old  woman  whom  I  some- 
times meet  out  with  her  dog  by  the  canal.  In  the  first  pew  on  the 


182  GEORGE   MOORE 

left  was  a  red  landlord  with  a  frizzled  beard  and  a  perfectly  hand- 
some wife,  and  behind  him  was  Joe  McDonnell  from  Carnacun 
House,  a  great  farmer,  and  the  wonder  of  the  church,  so  great  was 
his  belly.  I  can  see  these  people  dimly,  like  figures  in  the  back- 
ground of  a  picture;  but  the  blind  girl  is  as  clear  in  my  memory  as 
if  she  were  present.  She  used  to  kneel  behind  the  Virgin's  altar  and 
the  Communion  rails,  almost  entirely  hidden  under  an  old  shawl, 
grown  green  with  age;  and  the  event  of  every  Sunday,  at  least  for 
me,  was  to  see  her  draw  herself  forward  when  the  Communion  bell 
rang,  and  lift  herself  to  receive  the  wafer  that  the  priest  placed 
upon  her  tongue,  and  having  received  it,  she  would  sink  back,  over- 
come, overawed,  and  I  used  to  wonder  at  her  piety,  and  think  of  the 
long  hours  she  spent  sitting  by  the  cabin-fire  waiting  for  Sunday  to 
come  round  again.  On  what  roadside  was  that  cabin?  And  did  she 
come,  led  by  some  relative  or  friend,  or  finding  her  way  down  the 
road  by  herself?  Questions  that  interested  me  more  than  anybody 
else,  and  it  was  only  at  the  end  of  a  long  inquiry  that  I  learnt  that 
she  came  from  one  of  the  cabins  opposite  Carnacun  House.  Every 
time  we  passed  that  cabin  I  used  to  look  out  for  her,  thinking  how 
I  might  catch  sight  of  her  in  the  doorway;  but  I  never  saw  her  ex- 
cept in  the  chapel.  Only  once  did  we  meet  her  as  we  drove  to 
Ballyglass,  groping  her  way,  doubtless,  to  Carnacun.  Where  else 
would  she  be  going?  And  hearing  our  horses'  hoofs  she  sank  closer 
to  the  wall,  overawed,  into  the  wet  among  the  falling  leaves. 

As  soon  as  the  Communion  was  over  Father  James  would  come 
forward,  and  thrusting  his  hands  under  the  alb  (his  favourite  ges- 
ture) he  would  begin  his  sermon  in  Irish  (in  those  days  Irish  was 
the  language  of  the  country  among  the  peasantry),  and  we  would 
sit  for  half  an  hour,  wondering  what  were  the  terrible  things  he  was 
saying,  asking  ourselves  if  it  were  pitchforks  or  ovens,  or  both,  that 
he  was  talking;  for  the  peasantry  were  groaning  aloud,  the 
women  not  infrequently  falling  on  their  knees,  beating  their 
breasts;  and  I  remember  being  perplexed  by  the  possibility  that 
some  few  tenantry  might  be  saved,  for  if  that  happened  how 
should  we  meet  them  in  heaven?  Would  they  look  another  way 
and  pass  us  by  without  lifting  their  hats  and  crying:  Long  life  to 
yer  honour? 

My  memories  of  Carnacun  Chapel  and  Father  James  Browne 
were  interrupted  by  a  sudden  lurching  forward  of  the  car,  which 


A   THEOLOGICAL   FORK  183 

nearly  flung  me  into  the  road.  Whelan  apologised  for  himself  and 
his  horse,  but  I  damned  him,  for  I  was  annoyed  at  being  awakened 
from  my  dream.  There  was  no  hope  of  being  able  to  pick  it  up 
again,  for  the  chapel  bell  was  pealing  down  the  empty  landscape, 
calling  the  peasants  from  their  desolate  villages.  It  seemed  to  me 
that  the  Carnacun  bell  used  to  cry  across  the  moist  fields  more 
cheerfully;  there  was  a  menace  in  the  Gort  bell  as  there  is  in 
the  voice  of  a  man  who  fears  that  he  may  not  be  obeyed,  and  this 
gave  me  an  interest  in  the  Mass  I  was  going  to  hear.  It  would 
teach  me  something  of  the  changes  that  had  happened  during  my 
absence.  The  first  thing  I  noticed  as  I  approached  the  chapel  was 
the  smallness  of  the  crowd  of  men  about  the  gateposts;  only  a  few 
figures,  and  they  surly  and  suspicious  fellows,  resolved  not  to  salute 
the  landlord,  yet  breaking  away  with  difficulty  from  traditional  ser- 
vility. Our  popularity  had  disappeared  with  the  laws  that  favoured 
us,  but  Whelan's  appearance  counted  for  something  in  the  decay- 
ing sense  of  rank  among  the  peasantry,  and  I  mentally  reproached 
Edward  for  not  putting  his  servant  into  livery.  It  interested  me  to 
see  that  the  superstitions  of  Carnacun  were  still  followed:  the 
peasants  dipped  their  fingers  in  a  font  and  sprinkled  themselves, 
and  the  only  difference  that  I  noticed  between  the  two  chapels  was 
one  for  the  worse;  the  windows  at  Gort  were  not  broken,  and 
the  happy,  circling  swallows  did  not  build  under  the  rafters.  It  was 
easier  to  discover  differences  in  the  two  congregations.  My  eyes 
sought  vainly  the  long  dark  cloak  of  married  life,  nor  did  I  suc- 
ceed in  finding  an  old  man  in  knee-breeches  and  worsted  stock- 
ings, nor  a  girl  drawing  her  shawl  over  her  head. 

The  Irish  language  is  inseparable  from  these  things,  I  said,  and  it 
has  gone.  The  sermon  will  be  in  English,  or  in  a  language  as  near 
English  as  those  hats  and  feathers  are  near  the  fashions  that  pre- 
vail in  Paris. 

The  Gort  peasants  seemed  able  to  read,  for  they  held  Prayer- 
books,  and  as  if  to  help  them  in  their  devotion  a  harmonium  began 
to  utter  sounds  as  discordant  as  the  red  and  blue  glass  in  the  win- 
dows, and  all  the  time  the  Mass  continued  very  much  as  I  remem- 
bered it,  until  the  priest  lifted  his  alb  over  his  head  and  placed  it 
upon  the  altar  (Father  James  used  to  preach  in  the  vestment,  I 
said  to  myself);  and  very  slowly  and  methodically  the  Gort  priest 
tried  to  explain  the  mystery  of  Transubstantiation  to  the  peasants, 


184  GEORGE    MOORE 

and  they  listened  to  him  with  such  indifference  that  it  were  difficult 
not  to  think  that  Father  James's  sermons,  based  on  the  fear  of  the 
devil,  were  more  suitable  to  Ireland. 

A  Mass  only  rememberable  for  a  squealing  harmonium,  some 
panes  in  terrifying  blues  and  reds,  and  my  own  great  shame.  How- 
ever noble  my  motive  may  have  been,  I  had  knelt  and  stood  with 
the  congregation;  I  had  even  bowed  my  head,  making  believe  by 
this  parade  that  I  accepted  the  Mass  as  a  truth.  It  could  not  be 
right  to  do  this,  even  for  the  sake  of  the  Irish  Literary  Theatre,  and 
I  left  the  chapel  asking  myself  by  what  strange  alienation  of  the 
brain  had  Edward  come  to  imagine  that  a  piece  of  enforced 
hypocrisy  on  my  part  could  be  to  any  one's  advantage. 

It  seemed  to  me  that  mortal  sin  had  been  committed  that  morn- 
ing; a  sense  of  guilt  clung  about  me.  Edward  was  consulted.  Could 
it  be  right  for  me  who  did  not  believe  in  the  Mass  to  attend  Mass? 
He  seemed  to  acquiesce  that  it  might  not  be  right,  but  when  Sunday 
came  round  again  my  refusal  to  get  on  the  car  so  frightened  him 
that  I  relinquished  myself  to  his  scruples,  to  his  terror,  to  his  cries. 
The  reader  will  judge  me  weak,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that 
he  is  my  oldest  friend,  and  it  seemed  to  me  that  we  should  never 
be  the  same  friends  again  if  I  refused;  added  to  which  he  had  been 
telling  me  all  the  week  that  he  was  getting  on  finely  with  his  third 
act,  and  for  the  sake  of  a  hypothetical  act  I  climbed  up  on  the  car. 

Now,  Whelan,  don't  delay  putting  up  the  horse.  Mind  you're  in 
time  for  Mass,  and  don't  leave  the  chapel  until  the  last  Gospel  has 
been  read. 

Must  he  wait  for  Benediction?  I  cried  ironically. 

Edward  did  not  answer,  possibly  because  he  does  not  regard 
Benediction  as  part  of  the  liturgy,  and  is,  therefore,  more  or  less  in- 
different to  it.  The  horse  trotted  and  Whelan  clacked  his  tongue, 
a  horrible  noise  from  which  I  tried  to  escape  by  asking  him  ques- 
tions. 

Are  the  people  quiet  in  this  part  of  the  country? 

Quiet  enough,  he  answered,  and  I  thought  I  detected  a  slightly 
contemptuous  accent  in  the  syllables. 

Not  much  life  in  the  country?  I  hear  the  hunting  is  going  to  be 
stopped? 

Parnell  never  told  them  to  stop  the  hunting. 

You're  a  Parnellite? 

He  was  a  great  man. 


A   THEOLOGICAL   FORK  185 

The  priests  went  against  him,  I  said,  because  he  loved  another 
man's  wife. 

And  O'Shea  not  living  with  her  at  the  time. 

Even  if  he  had  been,  I  answered,  Ireland  first  of  all,  say  I.  He  was 
a  great  man. 

He  was  that. 

And  the  priest  at  Gort — was  he  against  him? 

Wasn't  he  every  bit  as  bad  as  the  others? 

Then  you  don't  care  to  go  to  his  church? 

I'd  just  as  lief  stop  away. 

It's  strange,  Whelan;  it's  strange  that  Mr.  Martyn  should  insist 
on  my  going  to  Gort  to  Mass.  Of  what  use  can  Mass  be  to  any  one 
if  he  doesn't  wish  to  hear  it? 

Whelan  chuckled,  or  seemed  to  chuckle. 

He  will  express  no  opinion,  I  said  to  myself,  and  abstractions 
don't  interest  him.  So,  turning  to  the  concrete,  I  spoke  of  the  priest 
who  was  to  say  Mass,  and  Whelan  agreed  that  he  had  gone  again 
Parnell. 

Well,  Whelan,  it's  a  great  waste  of  time  going  to  Gort  to  hear  a 
Mass  one  doesn't  want  to  hear,  and  I  have  business  with  Mr.  Yeats. 

Maybe  you'd  like  me  to  turn  into  Coole,  sur? 

I  was  thinking  we  might  do  that  .  .  .  only  you  won't  speak  to 
Mr.  Martyn  about  it,  will  you?  Because,  you  see,  Whelan,  every 
one  has  his  prejudices,  and  I  am  a  great  friend  of  Mr.  Martyn,  and 
wouldn't  like  to  disappoint  him. 

Wouldn't  like  to  contrairy  him,  sur? 

That's  it,  Whelan.  Now,  what  about  your  dinner?  You  don't  mind 
having  your  dinner  in  a  Protestant  house? 

It's  all  one  to  me,  sur. 

The  dinner  is  the  main  point,  isn't  it,  Whelan? 

Begad  it  is,  sur,  and  he  turned  the  horse  in  through  the  gates. 

Just  go  round,  I  said,  and  put  the  horse  up  and  say  nothing  to 
anybody. 

Yes,  sur. 

After  long  ringing  the  maidservant  opened  the  door  and  told  me 
that  Lady  Gregory  had  gone  to  church  with  her  niece;  Mr.  Yeats 
was  composing.  Would  I  take  a  seat  in  the  drawing-room  and  wait 
till  he  was  finished?  He  must  have  heard  the  wheels  of  the  car  coming 
round  the  gravel  sweep,  for  he  was  in  the  room  before  the  servant 
left  it — enthusiastic,  though  a  little  weary.  He  had  written  five  lines 


186  GEORGE    MOORE 

and  a  half,  and  a  pause  between  one's  rhymes  is  an  excellent  thing, 
he  said.  One  could  not  but  admire  him,  for  even  in  early  morning 
he  was  convinced  of  the  importance  of  literature  in  our  national 
life.  He  is  nearly  as  tall  as  a  Dublin  policeman,  and  preaching  liter- 
ature he  stood  on  the  hearthrug,  his  feet  set  close  together.  Lift- 
ing his  arms  above  his  head  (the  very  movement  that  Raphael 
gives  to  Paul  when  preaching  at  Athens),  he  said  what  he  wanted 
to  do  was  to  gather  up  a  great  mass  of  speech.  It  did  not  seem  to 
me  clear  why  he  should  be  at  pains  to  gather  up  a  great  mass  of 
speech  to  write  so  exiguous  a  thing  as  The  Shadowy  Waters;  but 
we  live  in  our  desires  rather  than  in  our  achievements,  and  Yeats 
talked  on,  telling  me  that  he  was  experimenting,  and  did  not  know 
whether  his  play  would  come  out  in  rhyme  or  in  blank  verse;  he 
was  experimenting.  He  could  write  blank  verse  almost  as  easily  as 
prose,  and  therefore  feared  it;  some  obstacle,  some  dam  was  neces- 
sary. It  seemed  a  pity  to  interrupt  him,  but  I  was  interested  to  hear 
if  he  were  going  to  accept  my  end,  and  allow  the  lady  to  drift 
southward,  drinking  yellow  ale  with  the  sailors,  while  the  hero 
sought  salvation  alone  in  the  North.  He  flowed  out  into  a  torrent 
of  argument  and  explanation,  very  ingenious,  but  impossible  to  fol- 
low. Phrase  after  phrase  rose  and  turned  and  went  out  like  a 
wreath  of  smoke,  and  when  the  last  was  spoken  and  the  idea  it  had 
borne  had  vanished,  I  asked  him  if  he  knew  the  legend  of 
Diarmuid  and  Grania.  He  began  to  tell  it  to  me  in  its  many  vari- 
ants, surprising  me  with  unexpected  dramatic  situations,  at  first 
sight  contradictory  and  incoherent,  but  on  closer  scrutiny  revealing 
a  psychology  in  germ  which  it  would  interest  me  to  unfold.  A  won- 
derful hour  of  literature  that  was,  flowering  into  a  resolution  to 
write  an  heroic  play  together.  As  we  sat  looking  at  each  other  in 
silence,  Lady  Gregory  returned  from  church. 

She  came  into  the  room  quickly,  with  a  welcoming  smile  on  her 
face,  and  I  set  her  down  here  as  I  see  her:  a  middle-aged  woman, 
agreeable  to  look  upon,  perhaps  for  her  broad,  handsome,  intellec- 
tual brow  enframed  in  iron-grey  hair.  The  brown,  wide-open 
eyes  are  often  lifted  in  looks  of  appeal  and  inquiry,  and  a  natural 
wish  to  sympathise  softens  her  voice  till  it  whines.  It  modulated, 
however,  very  pleasantly  as  she  yielded  her  attention  to  Yeats,  who 
insisted  on  telling  her  how  two  beings  so  different  as  myself  and 
Whelan  had  suddenly  become  united  in  a  conspiracy  to  deceive 
Edward,  Whelan  because  he  could  not  believe  in  the  efficacy  of  a 


A   THEOLOGICAL   FORK  187 

Mass  performed  by  an  anti-Parnellite,  and  I  because — Yeats  hesi- 
tated for  a  sufficient  reason,  deciding  suddenly  that  I  had  objected 
to  hear  Mass  in  Gort  because  there  was  no  one  in  the  church  who 
had  read  Villiers  de  l'lsle  Adam  except  myself;  and  he  seemed  so 
much  amused  that  the  thought  suddenly  crossed  my  mind  that 
perhaps  the  cocasseries  of  Connaught  were  more  natural  to  him 
than  the  heroic  moods  which  he  believed  himself  called  upon  to  in- 
terpret. His  literature  is  one  thing  and  his  conversation  is  another, 
divided  irreparably.  Is  this  right?  Lady  Gregory  chattered  on,  tell- 
ing stories  faintly  farcical,  amusing  to  those  who  knew  the  neigh- 
bourhood, but  rather  wearisome  for  one  who  didn't,  and  I  was 
waiting  for  an  opportunity  to  tell  her  that  an  heroic  drama  was 
going  to  be  written  on  the  subject  of  Diarmuid  and  Grania. 

When  my  lips  broke  the  news,  a  cloud  gathered  in  her  eyes,  and 
she  admitted  that  she  thought  it  would  be  hardly  wise  for  Yeats  to 
undertake  any  further  work  at  present;  and  later  in  the  afternoon 
she  took  me  into  her  confidence,  telling  me  that  Yeats  came  to 
Coole  every  summer  because  it  was  necessary  to  get  him  away 
from  the  distractions  of  London,  not  so  much  from  social  as  from 
the  intellectual  distractions  that  Arthur  Symons  had  inaugurated. 
The  Savoy  rose  up  in  my  mind  with  its  translations  from  Villiers  de 
l'lsle  Adam,  Verlaine,  and  Maeterlinck;  and  I  agreed  with  her  that 
alien  influences  were  a  great  danger  to  the  artist.  All  Yeats's  early 
poems,  she  broke  in,  were  written  in  Sligo,  and  among  them  were 
twenty  beautiful  lyrics  and  Ireland's  one  great  poem,  The  Wander- 
ings of  Usheen — all  these  had  come  straight  out  of  the  landscape 
and  the  people  he  had  known  from  boyhood. 

For  seven  years  we  have  been  waiting  for  a  new  book  from  him; 
ever  since  The  Countess  Cathleen  we  have  been  reading  the  pub- 
lisher's autumn  announcement  of  The  Wind  among  the  Reeds. 
The  volume  was  finished  here  last  year;  it  would  never  have  been 
finished  if  I  had  not  asked  him  to  Coole;  and  though  we  live  in  an 
ungrateful  world,  I  think  somebody  will  throw  a  kind  word  after 
me  some  day,  if  for  nothing  else,  for  The  Wind  among  the  Reeds. 

I  looked  round,  thinking  that  perhaps  life  at  Coole  was  arranged 
primarily  to  give  him  an  opportunity  of  writing  poems.  As  if  she 
had  read  my  thoughts,  Lady  Gregory  led  me  into  the  back 
drawing-room,  and  showed  me  the  table  at  which  he  wrote,  and  I 
admired  the  clean  pens,  the  fresh  ink,  and  the  spotless  blotter; 
these  were  her  special  care  every  morning.  I  foresaw  the  strait 


188  GEORGE    MOORE 

sofa  lying  across  the  window,  valued  in  some  future  time  because 
the  poet  had  reclined  upon  it  between  his  rhymes.  Ah  me!  the 
creeper  that  rustles  an  accompaniment  to  his  melodies  in  the 
pane  will  awaken  again,  year  after  year,  but  one  year  it  will 
awaken  in  vain.  .  .  .  My  eyes  thanked  Lady  Gregory  for  her  devo- 
tion to  literature.  Instead  of  writing  novels  she  had  released  the 
poet  from  the  quern  of  daily  journalism,  and  anxious  that  she  should 
understand  my  appreciation  of  her,  I  spoke  of  the  thirty-six  wild 
swans  that  had  risen  out  of  the  lake  while  Yeats  and  I  wandered  all 
through  the  long  evening  seeking  a  new  composition  for  The 
Shadowy  Waters. 

She  did  not  answer  me,  and  I  followed  her  in  silence  back  to  the 
front  room  and  sat  listening  to  her  while  she  told  me  that  it  was 
because  she  wanted  poems  from  him  that  she  looked  askance  at 
our  project  to  write  a  play  together  on  the  subject  of  Diarmuid  and 
Grania.  It  was  not  that  the  subject  was  unsuited  to  his  genius,  but 
she  thought  it  should  be  written  by  him  alone;  the  best  of  neither 
would  transpire  in  collaboration,  and  she  lamented  that  it  were 
useless  to  save  him  from  the  intellectual  temptations  of  Symons  if 
he  were  to  be  tossed  into  more  subtle  ones.  She  laughed,  as  is  her 
way  when  she  cozens,  and  reminded  me  that  we  were  of  different 
temperaments  and  had  arisen  out  of  different  literary  traditions. 

Mayo  went  to  Montmartre,  and  Sligo  turned  into  Fleet  Street. 

Suspicious  in  her  cleverness,  my  remark  did  not  altogether 
please  her,  and  she  said  something  about  a  man  of  genius  and  a 
man  of  talent  coming  together,  speaking  quickly  under  her  breath, 
so  that  her  scratch  would  escape  notice  at  the  time;  and  we  were 
talking  of  our  responsibilities  towards  genius  when  the  door  opened 
and  Yeats  came  into  the  room. 

He  entered  somewhat  diffidently,  I  thought,  with  an  invitation  to 
me  to  go  for  a  walk.  Lady  Gregory  was  appeased  with  the  news 
that  he  had  written  five  and  a  half  lines  that  morning,  and  a 
promise  that  he  would  be  back  at  six,  and  would  do  a  little  more 
writing  before  dinner.  As  he  went  away  he  told  me  that  he  might 
attain  his  maximum  of  nine  lines  that  evening,  if  he  succeeded  in 
finishing  the  broken  line.  But  S  must  never  meet  S;  for  his  sake  was 
inadmissible,  and  while  seeking  how  he  might  avoid  such  a  terrify- 
ing cacophony  we  tramped  down  wet  roads  and  climbed  over  low 
walls  into  scant  fields,  finding  the  ruined  castle  we  were  in  search 
of  at  the  end  of  a  long  boreen  among  tall,  wet  grasses.  The  walls 


A   THEOLOGICAL   FORK  189 

were  intact  and  the  stair,  and  from  the  top  we  stood  watching  the 
mist  drifting  across  the  grey  country,  Yeats  telling  how  the  wine 
had  been  drugged  at  Tara,  myself  thinking  how  natural  it  was  that 
Lady  Gregory  should  look  upon  me  as  a  danger  to  Yeats's  genius. 
As  we  descended  the  slippery  stair  an  argument  began  in  my  head 
whereby  our  project  of  collaboration  might  be  defended.  Next  time 
I  went  to  Coole  I  would  say  to  Lady  Gregory:  You  see,  Yeats 
came  to  me  with  The  Shadowy  Waters  because  he  had  entangled 
the  plot  and  introduced  all  his  ideas  into  it,  and  you  will  admit 
that  the  plot  had  to  be  disentangled?  To  conciliate  her  completely  I 
would  say  that  while  Yeats  was  rewriting  The  Shadowy  Waters  I 
would  spend  my  time  writing  an  act  about  the  many  adventures 
that  befell  Diarmuid  and  Grania  as  they  fled  before  Finn.  Yeats 
had  told  me  these  adventures  in  the  ruined  castle;  I  had  given 
to  them  all  the  attention  that  I  could  spare  from  Lady  Gregory,  who, 
I  was  thinking,  might  admit  my  help  in  the  arrangement  of  some 
incidents  in  The  Shadowy  Waters,  but  would  always  regard  our 
collaboration  in  Diarmuid  and  Grania  with  hostility.  But  for  this  par- 
tiality it  seemed  to  me  I  could  not  blame  her,  so  well  had  she  put  her 
case  when  she  said  that  her  fear  was  that  my  influence  might  break 
up  the  mould  of  his  mind. 

The  car  waited  for  me  at  the  end  of  the  boreen,  and  before  start- 
ing I  tried  to  persuade  Yeats  to  come  to  Tillyra  with  me,  but  he 
said  he  could  not  leave  Lady  Gregory  alone,  and  before  we  parted 
I  learnt  that  she  read  to  him  every  evening.  Last  summer  it  was 
War  and  Peace,  and  this  summer  she  was  reading  Spenser's  Faerie 
Queene,  for  he  was  going  to  publish  a  selection  and  must  get  back 
to  Coole  for  the  seventh  canto. 

Good-bye,  and  springing  up  on  the  car,  I  was  driven  by  Whelan 
into  the  mist,  thinking  Yeats  the  most  fortunate  amongst  us,  he 
having  discovered  among  all  others  that  one  who,  by  instinctive 
sympathy,  understood  the  capacity  of  his  mind,  and  could  evoke 
it,  and  who  never  wearied  of  it,  whether  it  came  to  her  in  elabo- 
rately wrought  stanzas  or  in  the  form  of  some  simple  confession, 
the  mood  of  last  night  related  as  they  crossed  the  sward  after 
breakfast.  As  the  moon  is  more  interested  in  the  earth  than  in  any 
other  thing,  there  is  always  some  woman  more  interested  in  a  man's 
mind  than  in  anything  else,  and  willing  to  follow  it  sentence  by 
sentence.  A  great  deal  of  Yeats's  work  must  come  to  her  in  frag- 
ments— a  line  and  a  half,  two  lines — and  these  she  faithfully  copies 


190  GEORGE   MOORE 

on  her  typewriter,  and  even  those  that  his  ultimate  taste  has  re- 
jected are  treasured  up,  and  perhaps  will  one  day  appear  in  a  stately 
variorum  edition. 

Well  she  may  say  that  the  future  will  owe  her  something,  and 
my  thoughts  moved  back  to  the  first  time  I  saw  her  some  twenty- 
five  years  ago.  She  was  then  a  young  woman,  very  earnest,  who 
divided  her  hair  in  the  middle  and  wore  it  smooth  on  either  side  of 
a  broad  and  handsome  brow.  Her  eyes  were  always  full  of  ques- 
tions, and  her  Protestant  high-school  air  became  her  greatly  and 
estranged  me  from  her. 

In  her  drawing-room  were  to  be  met  men  of  assured  reputation 
in  literature  and  politics,  and  there  was  always  the  best  reading  of 
the  time  upon  her  tables.  There  was  nothing,  however,  in  her  con- 
versation to  suggest  literary  faculty,  and  it  was  a  surprise  to  me  to 
hear  one  day  that  she  had  written  a  pamphlet  in  defence  of  Arabi 
Pasha,  an  Egyptian  rebel.  Some  years  after  she  edited  her  husband's 
memoirs,  and  did  the  work  well.  So  at  core  she  must  have  been 
always  literary,  but  early  circumstances  had  not  proved  favourable 
to  the  development  of  her  gift,  and  it  languished  till  she  met  Yeats. 
He  could  not  have  been  long  at  Coole  before  he  began  to  draw  her 
attention  to  the  beauty  of  the  literature  that  rises  among  the  hills 
and  bubbles  irresponsibly,  and  set  her  going  from  cabin  to  cabin 
taking  down  stories,  and  encouraged  her  to  learn  the  original  lan- 
guage of  the  country,  so  that  they  might  add  to  the  Irish  idiom 
which  the  peasant  had  already  translated  into  English,  making  in 
this  way  a  language  for  themselves. 

Yeats  could  only  acquire  the  idiom  by  the  help  of  Lady  Gregory, 
for  although  he  loves  the  dialect  and  detests  the  defaced  idiom 
which  we  speak  in  our  streets  and  parlours,  he  has  little  aptitude 
to  learn  that  of  the  boreen  and  the  market-place.  She  put  her 
aptitude  at  his  service,  and  translated  portions  of  Cathleen  ni 
Houlihan  into  Kiltartan  (Kiltartan  is  the  village  in  which  she  col- 
lects the  dialect);  and  she  worked  it  into  the  revised  version  of  the 
stories  from  The  Secret  Rose,  published  by  the  Dun  Emer  Press, 
and  thinking  how  happy  their  lives  must  be  at  Coole,  implicated 
in  literary  partnership,  my  heart  went  out  towards  her  in  a  sudden 
sympathy.  She  has  been  wise  all  her  life  through,  I  said;  she  knew 
him  to  be  her  need  at  once,  and  she  never  hesitated  .  .  .  yet  she 
knew  me  before  she  knew  him. 


JAMES     JOYCE 

Dead  King1 

A  great  fire,  banked  high  and  red,  flamed  in  the  grate  and  under 
the  ivytwined  branches  of  the  chandelier  the  Christmas  table  was 
spread.  They  had  come  home  a  little  late  and  still  dinner  was  not 
ready:  but  it  would  be  ready  in  a  jiffy,  his  mother  had  said.  They 
were  waiting  for  the  door  to  open  and  for  the  servants  to  come  in, 
holding  the  big  dishes  covered  with  their  heavy  metal  covers. 

All  were  waiting:  Uncle  Charles,  who  sat  far  away  in  the  shadow 
of  the  window,  Dante  and  Mr  Casey,  who  sat  in  the  easychairs  at 
either  side  of  the  hearth,  Stephen,  seated  on  a  chair  between 
them,  his  feet  resting  on  the  toasted  boss.  Mr  Dedalus  looked  at 
himself  in  the  pierglass  above  the  mantelpiece,  waxed  out  his 
moustache  ends  and  then,  parting  his  coat  tails,  stood  with  his 
back  to  the  glowing  fire:  and  still  from  time  to  time  he  withdrew  a 
hand  from  his  coat  tail  to  wax  out  one  of  his  moustache  ends.  Mr 
Casey  leaned  his  head  to  one  side  and,  smiling,  tapped  the  gland 
of  his  neck  with  his  fingers.  And  Stephen  smiled  too  for  he  knew 
now  that  it  was  not  true  that  Mr  Casey  had  a  purse  of  silver  in 
his  throat.  He  smiled  to  think  how  the  silvery  noise  which  Mr 
Casey  used  to  make  had  deceived  him.  And  when  he  had  tried  to 
open  Mr  Casey's  hand  to  see  if  the  purse  of  silver  was  hidden 
there  he  had  seen  that  the  fingers  could  not  be  straightened  out: 
and  Mr  Casey  had  told  him  that  he  had  got  those  three  cramped 
fingers  making  a  birthday  present  for  Queen  Victoria. 

Mr  Casey  tapped  the  gland  of  his  neck  and  smiled  at  Stephen 
with  sleepy  eyes:  and  Mr  Dedalus  said  to  him: 

— Yes.  Well  now,  that's  all  right.  O,  we  had  a  good  walk,  hadn't 
we,  John?  Yes  ...  I  wonder  if  there's  any  likelihood  of  dinner  this 
evening.  Yes.  .  .  .Oh,  well  now,  we  got  a  good  breath  of  ozone 
round  the  Head  today.  Ay,  bedad. 

He  turned  to  Dante  and  said: 

— You  didn't  stir  out  at  all,  Mrs  Riordan? 

Dante  frowned  and  said  shortly: 

—No. 

Mr  Dedalus  dropped  his  coat  tails  and  went  over  to  the  sideboard. 
He  brought  forth  a  great  stone  jar  of  whisky  from  the  locker  and 

1  From  A  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a  Young  Man,  New  York,  1916. 

191 


192  JAMES    JOYCE 

filled  the  decanter  slowly,  bending  now  and  then  to  see  how  much 
he  had  poured  in.  Then  replacing  the  jar  in  the  locker  he  poured  a 
little  of  the  whisky  into  two  glasses,  added  a  little  water  and  came 
back  with  them  to  the  fireplace. 

— A  thimbleful,  John,  he  said,  just  to  whet  your  appetite. 

Mr  Casey  took  the  glass,  drank,  and  placed  it  near  him  on  the 
mantelpiece.  Then  he  said: 

— Well,  I  can't  help  thinking  of  our  friend  Christopher  manufac- 
turing .  .  . 

He  broke  into  a  fit  of  laughter  and  coughing  and  added: 

— .  .  .  manufacturing  that  champagne  for  those  fellows. 

Mr  Dedalus  laughed  loudly. 

— Is  it  Christy?  he  said.  There's  more  cunning  in  one  of  those 
warts  on  his  bald  head  than  in  a  pack  of  jack  foxes. 

He  inclined  his  head,  closed  his  eyes,  and,  licking  his  lips  pro- 
fusely, began  to  speak  with  the  voice  of  the  hotel  keeper. 

— And  he  has  such  a  soft  mouth  when  he's  speaking  to  you,  don't 
you  know.  He's  very  moist  and  watery  about  the  dewlaps,  God 
bless  him. 

Mr  Casey  was  still  struggling  through  his  fit  of  coughing  and 
laughter.  Stephen,  seeing  and  hearing  the  hotel  keeper  through  his 
father's  face  and  voice,  laughed. 

Mr  Dedalus  put  up  his  eyeglass  and,  staring  down  at  him,  said 
quietly  and  kindly: 

— What  are  you  laughing  at,  you  little  puppy,  you? 

The  servants  entered  and  placed  the  dishes  on  the  table.  Mrs 
Dedalus  followed  and  the  places  were  arranged. 

— Sit  over,  she  said. 

Mr  Dedalus  went  to  the  end  of  the  table  and  said: 

— Now,  Mrs  Riordan,  sit  over.  John,  sit  you  down,  my  hearty. 

He  looked  round  to  where  Uncle  Charles  sat  and  said: 

— Now  then,  sir,  there's  a  bird  here  waiting  for  you. 

When  all  had  taken  their  seats  he  laid  his  hand  on  the  cover  and 
then  said  quickly,  withdrawing  it: 

— Now,  Stephen. 

Stephen  stood  up  in  his  place  to  say  the  grace  before  meals: 


Bless  us,  O  Lord,  and  these  Thy  gifts  which  through  Thy  bounty  we  are 
about  to  receive  through  Christ  our  Lord.  Amen. 


DEAD   KING  193 

All  blessed  themselves  and  Mr  Dedalus  with  a  sigh  of  pleasure 
lifted  from  the  dish  the  heavy  cover  pearled  around  the  edge  with 
glistening  drops. 

Stephen  looked  at  the  plump  turkey  which  had  lain,  trussed  and 
skewered,  on  the  kitchen  table.  He  knew  that  his  father  had  paid 
a  guinea  for  it  in  Dunn's  of  D'Olier  Street  and  that  the  man  had 
prodded  it  often  at  the  breastbone  to  show  how  good  it  was:  and 
he  remembered  the  man's  voice  when  he  had  said: 

— Take  that  one,  sir.  That's  the  real  Ally  Daly. 

Why  did  Mr  Barrett  in  Clongowes1  call  his  pandybat2  a  turkey? 
But  Clongowes  was  far  away:  and  the  warm  heavy  smell  of  tur- 
key and  ham  and  celery  rose  from  the  plates  and  dishes  and  the 
great  fire  was  banked  high  and  red  in  the  grate  and  the  green  ivy 
and  red  holly  made  you  feel  so  happy  and  when  dinner  was  ended 
the  big  plum  pudding  would  be  carried  in,  studded  with  peeled 
almonds  and  sprigs  of  holly,  with  bluish  fire  running  around  it  and 
a  little  green  flag  flying  from  the  top. 

It  was  his  first  Christmas  dinner  and  he  thought  of  his  little 
brothers  and  sisters  who  were  waiting  in  the  nursery,  as  he  had 
often  waited,  till  the  pudding  came.  The  deep  low  collar  and  the 
Eton  jacket  made  him  feel  queer  and  oldish:  and  that  morning 
when  his  mother  had  brought  him  down  to  the  parlour,  dressed 
for  mass,  his  father  had  cried.  That  was  because  he  was  thinking 
of  his  own  father.  And  Uncle  Charles  had  said  so  too. 

Mr  Dedalus  covered  the  dish  and  began  to  eat  hungrily.  Then 
he  said: 

— Poor  old  Christy,  he's  nearly  lopsided  now  with  roguery. 

— Simon,  said  Mrs  Dedalus,  you  haven't  given  Mrs  Riordan  any 
sauce. 

Mr  Dedalus   seized  the  sauceboat. 

— Haven't  I?  he  cried.  Mrs  Riordan,  pity  the  poor  blind. 

Dante  covered  her  plate  with  her  hands  and  said: 

— No,  thanks. 

Mr  Dedalus  turned  to  Uncle  Charles. 

— How  are  you  off,  sir? 

— Right  as  the  mail,  Simon. 

— You,  John? 

1  Clongowes  Wood  College,  County  Kildare,  the  preparatory  school  which  Stephen  Dedalus 
is  attending. 

2  The  disciplinary  rod. 


194  JAMES    JOYCE 

— I'm  all  right.  Go  on  yourself. 

— Mary?  Here,  Stephen,  here's  something  to  make  your  hair 
curl. 

He  poured  sauce  freely  over  Stephen's  plate  and  set  the  boat 
again  on  the  table.  Then  he  asked  Uncle  Charles  was  it  tender. 
Uncle  Charles  could  not  speak  because  his  mouth  was  full;  but 
he  nodded  that  it  was. 

— That  was  a  good  answer  our  friend  made  to  the  canon.  What? 
said  Mr  Dedalus. 

— I  didn't  think  he  had  that  much  in  him,  said  Mr  Casey. 

— I'll  pay  your  dues,  father,  when  you  cease  turning  the  house  of 
God  into  a  pollinghooth. 

— A  nice  answer,  said  Dante,  for  any  man  calling  himself  a  catho- 
lic to  give  to  his  priest. 

— They  have  only  themselves  to  blame,  said  Mr  Dedalus  suavely. 
If  they  took  a  fool's  advice  they  would  confine  their  attention  to  re- 
ligion. 

— It  is  religion,  Dante  said.  They  are  doing  their  duty  in  warning 
the  people. 

— We  go  to  the  house  of  God,  Mr  Casey  said,  in  all  humility  to 
pray  to  our  Maker  and  not  to  hear  election  addresses. 

— It  is  religion,  Dante  said  again.  They  are  right.  They  must  di- 
rect their  flocks. 

— And  preach  politics  from  the  altar,  is  it?  asked  Mr  Dedalus. 

— Certainly,  said  Dante.  It  is  a  question  of  public  morality.  A 
priest  would  not  be  a  priest  if  he  did  not  tell  his  flock  what  is  right 
and  what  is  wrong. 

Mrs  Dedalus  laid  down  her  knife  and  fork,  saying: 

— For  pity  sake  and  for  pity  sake  let  us  have  no  political  discus- 
sion on  this  day  of  all  days  in  the  year. 

— Quite  right,  ma'am,  said  Uncle  Charles.  Now  Simon,  that's 
quite  enough  now.  Not  another  word  now. 

— Yes,  yes,  said  Mr  Dedalus  quickly. 

He  uncovered  the  dish  boldly  and  said: 

— Now  then,  who's  for  more  turkey? 

Nobody  answered.  Dante  said: 

— Nice  language  for  any  catholic  to  use! 

— Mrs  Riordan,  I  appeal  to  you,  said  Mrs  Dedalus,  to  let  the  mat- 
ter drop  now. 

Dante  turned  on  her  and  said: 


DEAD   KING  195 

— And  am  I  to  sit  here  and  listen  to  the  pastors  of  my  church  be- 
ing flouted? 

— Nobody  is  saying  a  word  against  them,  said  Mr  Dedalus,  so 
long  as  they  don't  meddle  in  politics. 

— The  bishops  and  priests  of  Ireland  have  spoken,  said  Dante,  and 
they  must  be  obeyed. 

— Let  them  leave  politics  alone,  said  Mr  Casey,  or  the  people 
may  leave  their  church  alone. 

— You  hear?  said  Dante,  turning  to  Mrs  Dedalus. 

— Mr  Casey!  Simon!  said  Mrs  Dedalus,  let  it  end  now. 

— Too  bad!  Too  bad!  said  Uncle  Charles. 

— What?  cried  Mr  Dedalus.  Were  we  to  desert  him  at  the  bidding 
of  the  English  people? 

— He  was  no  longer  worthy  to  lead,  said  Dante.  He  was  a  public 
sinner. 

— We  are  all  sinners  and  black  sinners,  said  Mr  Casey  coldly. 

— Woe  be  to  the  man  by  whom  the  scandal  cometh!  said  Mrs. 
Riordan.  It  would  be  better  for  him  that  a  millstone  were  tied 
about  his  neck  and  that  he  were  cast  into  the  depths  of  the  sea 
rather  than  that  he  should  scandalise  one  of  these,  my  least  little 
ones.  That  is  the  language  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

— And  very  bad  language  if  you  ask  me,  said  Mr  Dedalus  coolly, 

— Simon!  Simon!  said  Uncle  Charles.  The  boy. 

— Yes,  yes,  said  Mr  Dedalus.  I  meant  about  the  ...  I  was  think- 
ing about  the  bad  language  of  that  railway  porter.  Well  now,  that's 
all  right.  Here,  Stephen,  show  me  your  plate,  old  chap.  Eat  away 
now.  Here. 

He  heaped  up  the  food  on  Stephen's  plate  and  served  Uncle 
Charles  and  Mr  Casey  to  large  pieces  of  turkey  and  splashes  of 
sauce.  Mrs  Dedalus  was  eating  little  and  Dante  sat  with  her  hands 
in  her  lap.  She  was  red  in  the  face.  Mr  Dedalus  rooted  with  the 
carvers  at  the  end  of  the  dish  and  said: 

— There's  a  tasty  bit  here  we  call  the  pope's  nose.  If  any  lady  or 
gentleman  .  .  . 

He  held  a  piece  of  fowl  up  on  the  prong  of  the  carvingfork.  No- 
body spoke.  He  put  it  on  his  own  plate,  saying: 

— Well,  you  can't  say  but  you  were  asked.  I  think  I  had  better 
eat  it  myself  because  I'm  not  well  in  my  health  lately. 

He  winked  at  Stephen  and,  replacing  the  dishcover,  began  to  eat 
again. 


196  JAMES    JOYCE 

There  was  a  silence  while  he  ate.  Then  he  said: 

— Well  now,  the  day  kept  up  fine  after  all.  There  were  plenty  of 
strangers  down  too. 

Nobody  spoke.  He  said  again: 

— I  think  there  were  more  strangers  down  than  last  Christmas. 

He  looked  round  at  the  others  whose  faces  were  bent  towards 
their  plates  and,  receiving  no  reply,  waited  for  a  moment  and  said 
bitterly: 

— Well,  my  Christmas  dinner  has  been  spoiled  anyhow. 

— There  could  be  neither  luck  nor  grace,  Dante  said,  in  a  house 
where  there  is  no  respect  for  the  pastors  of  the  church. 

Mr  Dedalus  threw  his  knife  and  fork  noisily  on  his  plate. 

— Respect!  he  said.  Is  it  for  Billy  with  the  lip  or  for  the  tub  of 
guts  up  in  Armagh?  Respect! 

— Princes  of  the  church,  said  Mr  Casey  with  slow  scorn. 

— Lord  Leitrim's  coachman,  yes,  said  Mr  Dedalus. 

— They  are  the  Lord's  anointed,  Dante  said.  They  are  an  honour 
to  their  country. 

— Tub  of  guts,  said  Mr  Dedalus  coarsely.  He  has  a  handsome 
face,  mind  you,  in  repose.  You  should  see  that  fellow  lapping  up 
his  bacon  and  cabbage  of  a  cold  winter's  day.  O  Johnny! 

He  twisted  his  features  into  a  grimace  of  heavy  bestiality  and 
made  a  lapping  noise  with  his  lips. 

— Really,  Simon,  you  should  not  speak  that  way  before  Stephen. 
It's  not  right. 

— O,  he'll  remember  all  this  when  he  grows  up,  said  Dante  hotly 
— the  language  he  heard  against  God  and  religion  and  priests  in  his 
own  home. 

— Let  him  remember  too,  cried  Mr  Casey  to  her  from  across  the 
table,  the  language  with  which  the  priests  and  the  priests'  pawns 
broke  Parnell's  heart  and  hounded  him  into  his  grave.  Let  him  re- 
member that  too  when  he  grows  up. 

— Sons  of  bitches!  cried  Mr  Dedalus.  When  he  was  down  they 
turned  on  him  to  betray  him  and  rend  him  like  rats  in  a  sewer. 
Lowlived  dogs!  And  they  look  it!  By  Christ,  they  look  it! 

— They  behaved  rightly,  cried  Dante.  They  obeyed  their  bishops 
and  their  priests.  Honour  to  them! 

— Well,  it  is  perfectly  dreadful  to  say  that  not  even  for  one  day 
in  the  year,  said  Mrs  Dedalus,  can  we  be  free  from  these  dreadful 
disputes! 


DEAD   KING  197 

Uncle  Charles  raised  his  hands  mildly  and  said: 

— Come  now,  come  now,  come  now!  Can  we  not  have  our  opin- 
ions whatever  they  are  without  this  bad  temper  and  this  bad  lan- 
guage? It  is  too  bad  surely. 

Mrs  Dedalus  spoke  to  Dante  in  a  low  voice  but  Dante  said 
loudly: 

— I  will  not  say  nothing.  I  will  defend  my  church  and  my  reli- 
gion when  it  is  insulted  and  spit  on  by  renegade  catholics. 

Mr  Casey  pushed  his  plate  rudely  into  the  middle  of  the  table 
and,  resting  his  elbows  before  him,  said  in  a  hoarse  voice  to  his 
host: 

— Tell  me,  did  I  tell  you  that  story  about  a  very  famous  spit? 

— You   did   not,   John,   said   Mr   Dedalus. 

Why  then,  said  Mr  Casey,  it  is  a  most  instructive  story.  It  hap- 
pened not  long  ago  in  the  county  Wicklow  where  we  are  now. 

He  broke  off  and,  turning  towards  Dante,  said  with  quiet  indig- 
nation : 

— And  I  may  tell  you,  ma'am,  that  I,  if  you  mean  me,  am  no 
renegade  catholic.  I  am  a  catholic  as  my  father  was  and  his  father 
before  him  and  his  father  before  him  again  when  we  gave  up  our 
lives  rather  than  sell  our  faith. 

— The  more  shame  to  you  now,  Dante  said,  to  speak  as  you  do. 

— The  story,  John,  said  Mr  Dedalus  smiling.  Let  us  have  the  story 
anyhow. 

— Catholic  indeed!  repeated  Dante  ironically.  The  blackest  prot- 
estant  in  the  land  would  not  speak  the  language  I  have  heard  this 
evening. 

Mr  Dedalus  began  to  sway  his  head  to  and  fro,  crooning  like  a 
country  singer. 

— I  am  no  protestant,  I  tell  you  again,  said  Mr  Casey  flushing. 

Mr  Dedalus,  still  crooning  and  swaying  his  head,  began  to  sing 
in  a  grunting  nasal  tone: 

O,  come  all  you  Roman  catholics 
That  never  went  to  mass. 

He  took  up  his  knife  and  fork  again  in  good  humour  and  set  to 
eating,  saying  to  Mr  Casey: 

— Let  us  have  the  story,  John.  It  will  help  us  to  digest. 

Stephen  looked  with  affection  at  Mr  Casey's  face  which  stared 
across  the  table  over  his  joined  hands.  He  liked  to  sit  near  him  at 


198  JAMES    JOYCE 

the  fire,  looking  up  at  his  dark  fierce  face.  But  his  dark  eyes  were 
never  fierce  and  his  slow  voice  was  good  to  listen  to.  But  why  was 
he  then  against  the  priests?  Because  Dante  must  be  right  then.  But 
he  had  heard  his  father  say  she  was  a  spoiled  nun  and  that  she 
had  come  out  of  the  convent  in  the  Alleghanies  when  her  brother 
had  got  the  money  from  the  savages  for  the  trinkets  and  the  chain- 
ies.  Perhaps  that  made  her  severe  against  Parnell.  And  she  did  not 
like  him  to  play  with  Eileen  because  Eileen  was  a  protestant  and 
when  she  was  young  she  knew  children  that  used  to  play  with 
protestants  and  the  protestants  used  to  make  fun  of  the  litany  of 
the  Blessed  Virgin.  Tower  of  Ivory,  they  used  to  say,  House  of 
Gold!  How  could  a  woman  be  a  tower  of  ivory  or  a  house  of  gold? 
Who  was  right  then?  And  he  remembered  the  evening  in  the  in- 
firmary in  Clongowes,  the  dark  waters,  the  light  at  the  pierhead 
and  the  moan  of  sorrow  from  the  people  when  they  had  heard. 

Eileen  had  long  white  hands.  One  evening  when  playing  tig  she 
had  put  her  hands  over  his  eyes:  long  and  white  and  thin  and  cold 
and  soft.  That  was  ivory:  a  cold  white  thing.  That  was  the  mean- 
ing of  Tower  of  Ivory. 

— The  story  is  very  short  and  sweet,  Mr  Casey  said.  It  was  one 
day  down  in  Arklow,  a  cold  bitter  day,  not  long  before  the  chief 
died.  May  God  have  mercy  on  him! 

He  closed  his  eyes  wearily  and  paused.  Mr  Dedalus  took  a  bone 
from  his  plate  and  tore  some  meat  from  it  with  his  teeth,  saying: 

— Before  he  was  killed,  you  mean. 

Mr  Casey  opened  his  eyes,  sighed  and  went  on: 

— It  was  down  in  Arklow  one  day.  We  were  down  there  at  a 
meeting  and  after  the  meeting  was  over  we  had  to  make  our  way 
to  the  railway  station  through  the  crowd.  Such  booing  and  baaing, 
man,  you  never  heard.  They  called  us  all  the  names  in  the  world. 
Well  there  was  one  old  lady,  and  a  drunken  old  harridan  she  was 
surely,  that  paid  all  her  attention  to  me.  She  kept  dancing  along 
beside  me  in  the  mud  bawling  and  screaming  into  my  face:  Priest- 
hunter!  The  Paris  Funds!  Mr  Fox!  Kitty  O'Shea! 1 

— And  what  did  you  do,  John?  asked  Mr  Dedalus. 

— I  let  her  bawl  away,  said  Mr.  Casey.  It  was  a  cold  day  and  to 
keep  up  my  heart  I  had  (saving  your  presence,  ma'am)  a  quid  of 


1  Kathleen  O'Shea  was  the  mistress  of  Parnell  and  wife  of  another  Irish  member  of  Parlia- 
ment whose  bringing  of  divorce  proceedings  caused  Parnell's  political  downfall. 


DEAD  KING  199 

Tullamore  in  my  mouth  and  sure  I  couldn't  say  a  word  in  any  case 
because   my   mouth  was   full   of   tobacco   juice. 

—Well,  John? 

— Well.  I  let  her  bawl  away,  to  her  heart's  content,  Kitty  O'Shea 
and  the  rest  of  it  till  at  last  she  called  that  lady  a  name  that  I  won't 
sully  this  Christmas  board  nor  your  ears,  ma'am,  nor  my  own  lips 
by  repeating. 

He  paused.  Mr  Dedalus,  lifting  his  head  from  the  bone,  asked: 

— And  what  did  you  do,  John? 

— Do!  said  Mr  Casey.  She  stuck  her  ugly  old  face  up  at  me  when 
she  said  it  and  I  had  my  mouth  full  of  tobacco  juice.  I  bent  down  to 
her  and  Phth!  says  I  to  her  like  that. 

He  turned  aside  and  made  the  act  of  spitting. 

— Phth!  says  I  to  her  like  that,  right  into  her  eye. 

He  clapped  a  hand  to  his  eye  and  gave  a  hoarse  scream  of  pain. 

— O  Jesus,  Mary  and  Joseph!  says  she.  I'm  blinded!  I'm  blinded 
and  drownded! 

He  stopped  in  a  fit  of  coughing  and  laughter,  repeating: 

— I'm  blinded  entirely. 

Mr  Dedalus  laughed  loudly  and  lay  back  in  his  chair  while  Uncle 
Charles  swayed  his  head  to  and  fro. 

Dante  looked  terribly  angry  and  repeated  while  they  laughed: 

— Very  nice!  Ha!  Very  nice! 

It  was  not  nice  about  the  spit  in  the  woman's  eye. 

But  what  was  the  name  the  woman  had  called  Kitty  O'Shea 
that  Mr  Casey  would  not  repeat?  He  thought  of  Mr  Casey  walking 
through  the  crowds  of  people  and  making  speeches  from  a  wagon- 
ette. That  was  what  he  had  been  in  prison  for  and  he  remembered 
that  one  night  Sergeant  O'Neill  had  come  to  the  house  and  had 
stood  in  the  hall,  talking  in  a  low  voice  with  his  father  and  chew- 
ing nervously  at  the  chinstrap  of  his  cap.  And  that  night  Mr  Casey 
had  not  gone  to  Dublin  by  train  but  a  car  had  come  to  the  door 
and  he  had  heard  his  father  say  something  about  the  Cabinteely 
road. 

He  was  for  Ireland  and  Parnell  and  so  was  his  father:  and  so  was 
Dante  too  for  one  night  at  the  band  on  the  esplanade  she  had  hit  a 
gentleman  on  the  head  with  her  umbrella  because  he  had  taken 
off  his  hat  when  the  band  played  God  save  the  Queen  at  the  end. 

Mr  Dedalus  gave  a  snort  of  contempt. 


200  JAMES    JOYCE 

— Ah,  John,  he  said.  It  is  true  for  them.  We  are  an  unfortunate 
priestridden  race  and  always  were  and  always  will  be  till  the  end 
of  the  chapter. 

Uncle  Charles  shook  his  head,  saying: 

— A  bad  business!  A  bad  business: 

Mr  Dedalus  repeated: 

— A  priestridden  Godforsaken  race! 

He  pointed  to  the  portrait  of  his  grandfather  on  the  wall  to  his 
right. 

— Do  you  see  that  old  chap  up  there,  John?  he  said.  He  was  a 
good  Irishman  when  there  was  no  money  in  the  job.  He  was  con- 
demned to  death  as  a  whiteboy.  But  he  had  a  saying  about  our 
clerical  friends,  that  he  would  never  let  one  of  them  put  his  two 
feet  under  his   mahogany. 

Dante  broke  in  angrily: 

— If  we  are  a  priestridden  race  we  ought  to  be  proud  of  it!  They 
are  the  apple  of  God's  eye.  Touch  them  not,  says  Christ,  for  they 
are  the  apple  of  My  eye. 

— And  can  we  not  love  our  country  then?  asked  Mr  Casey.  Are 
we  not  to  follow  the  man  that  was  born  to  lead  us? 

— A  traitor  to  his  country!  replied  Dante.  A  traitor,  an  adulterer! 
The  priests  were  right  to  abandon  him.  The  priests  were  always 
the  true  friends  of  Ireland. 

— Were  they,  faith?  said  Mr  Casey. 

He  threw  his  fist  on  the  table  and,  frowning  angrily,  protruded 
one  finger  after  another. 

— Didn't  the  bishops  of  Ireland  betray  us  in  the  time  of  the  un- 
ion1 when  Bishop  Lanigan  presented  an  address  of  loyalty  to  the 
Marquess  Cornwallis?  Didn't  the  bishops  and  priests  sell  the  aspira- 
tions of  their  country  in  1829  in  return  for  catholic  emancipa- 
tion? 2  Didn't  they  denounce  the  f enian  movement 3  from  the  pul- 
pit and  in  the  confession  box?  And  didn't  they  dishonour  the  ashes 
of  Terence  Bellew  MacManus?  4 

His  face  was  glowing  with  anger  and  Stephen  felt  the  glow  rise 


1  The  Act   of   Union    (1800)    disestablished   the    Irish   Parliament.    Ireland   received   instead 
a  number  of  seats  in  the  British  Parliament. 

2  The  Catholic  Emancipation  Act  (1829)  admitted  Catholics  to  Parliament,  to  Commissions 
in  the  Services,  and  to  the  Inner  Bar. 

3  The  Fenians  were  members  of  the  Irish  Republican  Brotherhood,  a  secret  revolutionary 
organization  which  attempted  an  uprising  in  1867. 

*A  hero  of  the  1848  uprising. 


DEAD  KING  201 

to  his  own  cheek  as  the  spoken  words  thrilled  him.  Mr  Dedalus  ut- 
tered a  guffaw  of  coarse  scorn. 

— O,  by  God,  he  cried,  I  forgot  little  old  Paul  Cullen!  Another 
apple  of  God's  eye! 

Dante  bent  across  the  table  and  cried  to  Mr  Casey: 

— Right!  Right!  They  were  always  right!  God  and  morality  and 
religion  come  first. 

Mrs  Dedalus,  seeing  her  excitement,  said  to  her: 

— Mrs  Riordan,  don't  excite  yourself  answering  them. 

— God  and  religion  before  everything!  Dante  cried.  God  and  reli- 
gion before  the  world! 

Mr  Casey  raised  his  clenched  fist  and  brought  it  down  on  the 
table  with  a  crash. 

— Very  well  then,  he  shouted  hoarsely,  if  it  comes  to  that,  no 
God  for  Ireland! 

— John!  John!  cried  Mr  Dedalus,  seizing  his  guest  by  the  coat 
sleeve. 

Dante  stared  across  the  table,  her  cheeks  shaking.  Mr  Casey 
struggled  up  from  his  chair  and  bent  across  the  table  towards  her, 
scraping  the  air  from  before  his  eyes  with  one  hand  as  though  he 
were  tearing  aside  a  cobweb. 

— No  God  for  Ireland!  he  cried.  We  have  had  too  much  God  in 
Ireland.  Away  with  God! 

— Blasphemer!  Devil!  screamed  Dante,  starting  to  her  feet  and  al- 
most spitting  in  his  face. 

Uncle  Charles  and  Mr  Dedalus  pulled  Mr  Casey  back  into  his 
chair  again,  talking  to  him  from  both  sides  reasonably.  He  stared 
before  him  out  of  his  dark  flaming  eyes,  repeating: 

— Away  with  God,  I  say! 

Dante  shoved  her  chair  violently  aside  and  left  the  table,  upset- 
ting her  napkinring  which  rolled  slowly  along  the  carpet  and  came 
to  rest  against  the  foot  of  an  easychair.  Mrs  Dedalus  rose  quickly 
and  followed  her  towards  the  door.  At  the  door  Dante  turned  round 
violently  and  shouted  down  the  room,  her  cheeks  flushed  and  quiv- 
ering with  rage: 

— Devil  out  of  hell!  We  won!  We  crushed  him  to  death!  Fiend! 

The  door  slammed  behind  her. 

Mr  Casey,  freeing  his  arms  from  his  holders,  suddenly  bowed  his 
head  on  his  hands  with  a  sob  of  pain. 


202  JAMES    JOYCE 

— Poor  Parnell!  he  cried  loudly.  My  dead  king! 
He  sobbed  loudly  and  bitterly. 

Stephen,  raising  his  terrors tricken  face,  saw  that  his  father's  eyes 
Were  full  of  tears. 


PADRAIC    COLUM 

Maelshaughlinn  at  the  Fair1 

1  oday,'  Maelshaughlinn  said,  I'm  the  lonesome  poor  fellow,  with- 
out father  or  mother,  a  girl's  promise,  nor  my  own  little  horse/ 
They  walked  along  with  him,  and  he  began  to  tell  them  of  his  ad- 
venture. 

Penitentially  he  began  it,  but  he  expanded  with  the  swelling  nar- 
rative. 'This  time  last  week,'  he  said,  'when  I  was  there  playing  for 
you  all  I  had  no  thought  of  parting  with  my  own  little  horse.  The 
English  wanted  beasts  for  a  war,  and  the  farmers  about  here  were 
making  horses  out  of  the  sweepings  of  the  knackers'  yards,  and  tak- 
ing horses  out  of  ha'penny  lucky-bags  to  sell  them  to  them.  Yester- 
day morning  I  took  out  my  own  little  beast  and  faced  for  Arvach 
fair.  I  met  the  dealer  on  the  road.  He  was  an  Englishman,  and, 
above  all  nations  on  the  face  of  the  earth,  the  English  are  the  easi- 
est to  deal  with  in  regard  of  horses.  I  mentioned  the  price — it  was 
an  honest  price,  but  none  of  our  own  people  would  have  taken  the 
offer  in  any  reasonable  way.  An  Irishman  would  have  cursed  into 
his  hat,  so  that  he  might  shake  the  curses  out  over  my  head.  The 
Englishman  took  on  to  consider  it,  and  my  heart  went  threshing 
my  ribs.  Then  he  gave  me  my  price;  he  paid  me  in  hard,  weighty, 
golden  sovereigns,  and  went  away,  taking  the  little  horse  with  him. 

1  sat  down  on  the  side  of  the  ditch  to  take  a  breath.  Now  you'll 
say  that  I  ought  to  have  gone  back  to  work,  and  I'll  say  that  I 
agree  with  you.  But  no  man  can  be  wise  at  all  times.  Anyway,  I 
was  sitting  on  a  ditch,  with  a  lark  singing  over  every  foot  of 
ground,  and  nothing  before  me  but  the  glory  of  the  day.  A  girl 
came  along  the  road,  and,  on  my  soul,  I  never  saw  a  girl  walking 
so  finely.  "She'll  be  a  head  above  any  girl  in  the  fair,"  I  said,  "and 
may  God  keep  the  brightness  on  her  head."  "God  save  you,  Mael- 
shaughlinn," said  the  girl.  "God  save  you,  my  jewel,"  said  I.  I  stood 
up  to  look  after  her,  for  a  fine  woman  walking  finely  is  above  all 
the  sights  that  man  ever  saw.  Then  a  few  lads  passed,  whistling 
and  swinging  their  sticks.  "God  give  you  a  good  day,"  said  the  lads. 
"God  give  you  luck,  boys,"  said  I.  And  there  was  I,  swinging  my 
stick  after  the  lads,  and  heading  for  the  fair. 

'  "Never  go  into  a  fair  where  you've  no  business."  That's  an  ouT 

1  From  Castle  Conquer,  New  York,   1923,  re-edited  by  the  author. 

203 


204 


PADRAIC   COLUM 


saying  and  a  wise  saying,  but  never  forget  that  neither  man  nor 
immortal  can  be  wise  at  all  times.  Satan  fell  from  Heaven,  Adam 
was  cast  out  of  Paradise,  and  even  my  uncle  broke  his  pledge. 

'When  I  came  into  the  fair  there  was  a  fiddler  playing  behind  a 
tinker's  cart.  I  had  a  shilling  to  spend  in  the  town,  and  so  I  went 
into  Flynn's  and  asked  for  a  cordial.  A  few  most  respectable  men 
came  in  then,  and  I  asked  them  to  take  a  treat  from  me.  Well,  one 
drank  and  another  drank,  and  then  Rose  Heffernan  came  into  the 
shop  with  her  brother.  Young  Heffernan  sent  the  glasses  round, 
and  then  I  asked  Rose  to  take  a  glass  of  wine,  and  I  put  down  a 
sovereign  on  the  counter.  The  fiddler  was  coming  down  the  street, 
and  I  sent  a  young  lad  out  to  him  with  silver.  I  stood  for  a  while 
talking  with  Rose,  and  I  heard  the  word  go  round  the  shop  con- 
cerning myself.  It  was  soon  settled  that  I  had  got  a  legacy.  The 
people  there  never  heard  of  any  legacies  except  American  legacies, 
and  so  they  put  my  fortune  down  to  an  uncle  who  had  died,  they 
thought,  in  the  States.  Now  I  didn't  want  Rose  to  think  that  my 
money  was  a  common  legacy  out  of  the  States,  so  by  half-words  I 
gave  them  to  understand  that  I  had  got  my  fortune  out  of  Mexico. 
Mind  you,  I  wasn't  far  out  when  I  spoke  of  Mexico,  for  I  had  a 
grand-uncle  who  went  out  there,  and  his  picture  is  in  the  house 
this  present  minute. 

'Well,  after  the  talk  of  the  Mexican  legacy  went  round,  I  couldn't 
take  any  treats  from  the  people,  though  indeed  plenty  were  offered 
me.  I  asked  everyone  to  drink  again.  I  think  the  crowds  of  the 
world  stood  before  Flynn's  counter.  A  big  Connachtman  held  up 
what  he  said  was  a  Mexican  dollar,  and  I  took  it  out  of  his  hand 
and  gave  it  to  Rose  Heffernan.  I  paid  him  for  it  too;  it  comes  into 
my  mind  now  that  I  paid  him  for  it  twice. 

'There's  not  on  the  track  of  the  sun  a  place  to  come  near  Arvach 
on  the  day  of  a  fair.  A  man  came  along  leading  a  black  horse,  and 
the  size  of  the  horse  and  the  eyes  of  the  horse  would  terrify  you. 
There  was  a  drift  of  sheep  going  by,  and  the  fleece  of  each  was 
worth  gold.  There  were  tinkers  with  their  carts  of  shining  tins,  as 
ugly  and  as  quarrelsome  fellows  as  ever  beat  each  other  to  death 
in  a  ditch,  and  there  were  the  powerful  men,  with  the  tight 
mouths,  and  the  eyes  that  could  judge  of  a  beast,  and  the  dark 
handsome  women  from  the  mountains.  To  crown  all,  a  piper  came 
into  the  town  by  the  other  end,  and  his  music  was  enough  to  put  the 


MAELSHAUGHLINN   AT   THE   FAIR  205 

blood  like  a  mill-race  through  your  heart.  The  music  of  the  piper, 
I  think,  would  have  made  the  beasts  walk  out  of  the  fair  on  their 
hind  legs,  if  the  music  of  the  fiddler  didn't  charm  them  to  be  still. 
Judith  O'Reilly  and  Baun  Driscoll  were  on  the  road,  and  Rose  Hef- 
fernan  was  talking  to  them.  Judith  O'Reilly  has  the  best  wit  and 
the  best  discourse  of  any  woman  within  the  four  seas  of  Ireland, 
and  she  said  to  the  other  girls  as  I  came  up,  "Faith,  girls,  the  good 
of  the  mission  will  be  gone  from  us  since  Maelshaughlinn  came 
into  the  fair,  for  the  young  women  will  be  talking  about  him,  and 
not  about  the  sermon  coming  home  from  the  mission."  "It's  not  the 
best  manners,"  said  I,  "to  treat  girls  to  a  glass  across  a  counter,  but 
come  into  a  shop,"  said  I,  "and  let  me  pay  for  your  fancy."  Well,  I 
got  Baun  Driscoll  to  ask  for  a  net  for  her  hair.  They  don't  sell  these 
nets  less  than  by  the  dozen,  so  I  bought  a  dozen  nets  for  Baun's 
hair.  I  bought  ear-rings  and  brooches,  dream-books  and  fortune- 
books,  buckles  and  combs,  and  I  thought  I  had  spent  no  more 
money  than  I'd  thank  you  for  picking  off  the  ground.  A  tinker 
woman  came  in  and  offered  to  tell  the  girls  their  fortunes,  and  I 
had  to  cross  her  hand  with  silver. 

1  came  out  on  the  street  after  that,  and  took  a  few  turns  through 
the  fair.  The  noise  and  the  crowd  were  getting  on  my  mind,  and  I 
couldn't  think  with  any  satisfaction,  so  I  went  into  Mrs.  Molloy's, 
and  sat  for  a  while  in  the  snug.  I  had  peace  and  quiet  there,  and  I 
began  to  plan  out  what  I  would  do  with  my  money.  I  had  a  notion 
of  going  into  Clooney  on  Tuesday,  and  buying  a  few  sheep  to  put 
on  my  little  fields,  and  of  taking  a  good  craftsman  home  from  the 
fair,  a  man  who  could  put  fine  thatch  on  my  little  house  so  that 
Nannie  would  like  to  be  looking  at  it.  I  made  up  my  mind  to  have 
the  doors  and  windows  shining  with  paint,  to  plant  a  few  trees  be- 
fore the  door,  and  to  have  a  growing  calf  in  the  garden  before  the 
house.  In  a  while,  I  thought,  I  could  have  another  little  horse  to  be 
my  comfort  and  my  consolation.  I  wasn't  drinking  anything  heav- 
ier than  light  ale,  so  I  thought  the  whole  thing  out  quietly.  After  a 
while  I  got  up,  bid  good-bye  to  Mrs.  Molloy,  and  stood  at  the 
door  to  watch  the  fair. 

'There  was  a  man  just  before  me  with  the  pea  and  thimble,  and 
I  never  saw  a  trick-of-the-loop  with  less  sense  of  the  game.  He  was 
winning  money  right  and  left,  but  that  was  because  the  young  fel- 
lows before  him  were  like  motherless  calves.  Just  to  expose  the 


206  PADRAIC   COLUM 

man  I  put  down  a  few  pence  on  the  board.  In  a  short  time  I  had 
fleeced  my  showman.  He  took  up  his  board  and  went  away,  leav- 
ing me  shillings  the  winner. 

1  stood  on  the  edge  of  the  pavement  wondering  what  I  could  do 
that  would  be  the  beating  of  the  things  I  had  done  already.  By  this 
time  the  fiddler  and  the  piper  were  drawing  nigh  to  each  other, 
and  there  was  a  musician  to  the  right  of  me,  and  a  musician  to  the 
left  of  me.  I  sent  silver  to  each,  and  told  them  to  cease  playing  as 
I  had  something  to  say.  I  got  up  on  a  cart  and  shook  my  hat  to  get 
silence.  I  said  "I'm  going  to  bid  the  musicians  play  in  the  market 
square,  and  the  man  who  gets  the  best  worth  out  of  his  instrument 
will  get  a  prize  from  me."  The  words  were  no  sooner  out  of  my 
mouth  than  men,  women,  and  children  made  for  the  market  square 
like  two-year-olds  let  loose. 

'You'd  like  the  looks  of  the  fiddler,  but  the  piper  was  a  black- 
a'vised  fellow  that  kept  a  troop  of  tinkers  about  him.  It  was  the 
piper  who  said  "Master,  what's  the  prize  to  be?"  Before  I  had  time 
to  think  the  fiddler  was  up  and  talking.  "He's  of  the  oul'  ancient 
race,"  said  the  fiddler,  "and  he'll  give  the  prize  that  the  Irish  no- 
bility gave  to  the  musicians — a  calf,  the  finest  calf  in  the  fair,  a 
white  calf  with  skin  as  soft  as  the  fine  mist  on  the  ground,  a  calf  so 
gentle  that  the  smoothest  field  under  it  would  look  as  rough  as  a 
bog."  And  the  fiddler  was  that  lifted  out  of  himself  that  he  nearly 
leapt  over  a  cart.  Somebody  pushed  in  a  young  calf,  and  then  I  sat 
down  on  a  stone,  for  there  was  no  use  in  saying  anything  or  try- 
ing to  hear  anything  after  that.  The  fiddler  played  first,  and  I  was 
nearly  taken  out  of  my  trouble  when  I  heard  him,  for  he  was  a  real 
man  of  art,  and  he  played  as  if  he  was  playing  before  a  king,  with 
the  light  of  heaven  on  his  face.  The  piper  was  spending  his  silver 
on  the  tinkers,  and  they  were  all  deep  in  drink  when  he  began  to 
play.  At  the  first  sound  of  his  pipes  an  old  tinkerwoman  fell  into 
a  trance.  It  was  powerful,  but  the  men  had  to  tie  him  up  with  a 
straw  rope,  else  the  horses  would  have  kicked  the  slates  off  the 
market-house  roof.  Nobody  was  quiet  after  that.  There  was  a  thou- 
sand men  before  me  offering  to  sell  me  ten  thousand  calves,  each 
calf  whiter  than  the  one  before.  There  was  one  party  round  the 
fiddler  and  another  party  round  the  piper.  I  think  it  was  the  fiddler 
that  won;  anyway,  he  had  the  strongest  backing,  for  they  hoisted 
the  calf  on  to  a  cart,  and  they  put  the  fiddler  beside  it,  and  the  two 
of  them  would  have  got  out  of  the  crowd,  only  the  tinkers  cut  the 


MAELSHAUGHLINN   AT   THE   FAIR  207 

traces  of  the  cart.  I  was  saved  by  a  few  hardy  men  who  carried  me 
through  the  market-house  and  into  Flynn's  by  a  back  way,  and 
there  I  paid  for  the  calf. 

'When  I  came  out  of  Flynn's  the  people  were  going  home  quiet 
enough.  I  got  a  lift  on  Fardy's  cart,  and  everybody,  I  think,  wanted 
me  to  come  to  Clooney  on  Tuesday  next.  I  think  I'd  have  got  out 
of  Arvach  with  safety,  only  a  dead-drunk  tinker  wakened  up  and 
knew  me,  and  he  gave  a  screech  that  brought  the  piper  hot-foot 
after  me,  First  of  all  the  piper  cursed  me.  He  had  a  bad  tongue, 
and  he  put  on  me  the  blackest,  bitterest  curses  you  ever  heard  in 
your  life.  Then  he  lifted  up  the  pipes,  and  he  gave  a  blast  that 
went  through  me  like  a  spear  of  ice.  The  man  that  sold  me  the 
calf  gave  me  a  luck-penny  back,  and  that's  all  the  money  I  brought 
out  of  Arvach  fair. 

'  "Never  go  into  the  fair  where  you  have  no  business."  That's  a 
wise  saying,  and  it's  a  saying  that  will  be  a  guide  to  me  for  the 
rest  of  the  days  of  my  life.' 


DANIEL    CORKERY 

Rock-of-the-Mass1 


Dunerling  East  was  its  name,  the  model  farm  in  all  that  country- 
side. Only  after  many  years  it  had  come  to  be  so;  and  Michael 
Hodnett,  the  farmer  who  had  made  it  so,  lay  fast  asleep  in  his  arm- 
chair on  the  right-hand  side  of  the  front  door.  As  of  its  own  weight 
his  big  strong-looking  head  had  sunk  itself  deep  into  his  deep  chest. 
The  sunshine  of  the  October  afternoon  was  depositing  itself  lav- 
ishly upon  him,  thickening  upon  him,  it  seemed,  while  slumber 
bound  him  there,  so  huge  and  lumpish,  so  inert,  so  old  and  fallen. 
Dunerling  East  just  now  was  looking  more  model-like  than  ever 
before.  The  house  itself  had  had  all  its  sashes,  its  doors,  its  timber 
work  painted  afresh;  its  blinds  and  curtains  had  been  renewed;  its 
ivy  growths  trimmed;  and  the  whole  farm,  even  its  farthest  fields 
and  screening  thickets,  spoke  of  the  same  well-being,  the  same 
skilful  management.  The  sleeper  might  lawfully  take  his  rest,  his 
spirit  had  so  indisputably  established  itself  everywhere  within 
the  far-flung  mearings.  Even  were  he  to  pass  away  in  his  sleep, 
and  stranger  folk,  as  reckless  as  might  be,  to  come  into  possession 
of  the  land,  many  years  must  needs  go  by  before  Dunerling  East 
became  hail-fellow-well-met  with  the  farms  round  about  it,  shaggy 
and  scraggy  as  they  were,  waterlogged  in  the  bottoms  and  bleached 
or  perished  on  the  uplands,  unsheltered  by  larch  or  beech. 

All  this  cleaning  up  had  been  done  in  preparation  for  the  first 
coming  together,  after  many  years,  of  all  or  nearly  all  that  were 
left  of  the  family.  The  arrival  of  Stephen  Hodnett,  the  third 
youngest  son,  from  the  States  had  been  the  occasion.  He  had 
brought  with  him  his  young  wife,  and,  as  well,  an  elder  sister  of 
hers,  a  young  widow,  for  whose  distraction  indeed  the  voyage  had 
been  undertaken.  Of  all  the  sons  of  the  house  this  son,  Stephen, 
perhaps  had  done  best:  he  was  now  manager  of  a  large  bakery 
store  in  New  York.  But  the  brother  next  to  him  in  years,  Finnbarr, 
had  done  well  too.  He  was  come,  also  accompanied  by  his  wife, 

1  From  The  Wager  and  Other  Stories,  New  York,  1950.  First  Published  in  The  Stormy 
Hills,   Dublin,    1929. 

208 


ROCK-OF-THE-MASS  209 

from  Kerry,  where  he  managed  a  very  successful  creamery.  The 
son  to  whom  the  care  of  the  farm  had  fallen,  to  whom  indeed  the 
farm  now  legally  belonged,  Nicholas  by  name,  had  maintained  it 
in  the  condition  to  which  his  father,  this  old  man  asleep  in  the  chair, 
had  brought  it;  perhaps  he  had  even  bettered  it,  but,  of  course, 
the  land  had  been  got  into  good  heart  long  before  it  fell  to  his  turn 
to  till  it.  Nicholas,  though  older  than  Stephen  or  Finnbarr,  had 
never  married:  he  would  wait  until  his  father's  death.  The  only 
other  son  of  the  house  was  up  in  Dublin — Father  Philip  Hodnett, 
a  curate  in  St.  Multose's  parish.  He  was  the  one  living  member 
who  was  not  at  present  in  Dunerling  East.  Within  the  house  lurked 
somewhere  the  eldest  living  of  all  the  old  man's  family,  Ellen,  the 
second  child  born  to  him.  She  looked  old  enough  to  be  the  mother 
of  those  mentioned,  even  of  Nicholas,  the  eldest  of  them.  She  was 
sixty  and  looked  more.  Her  cheeks  were  thin  and  haggard,  colour- 
less, her  hair  grey,  and  her  eyes  stared  blankly  at  the  life  mov- 
ing before  them  as  if  it  were  but  an  insipid  and  shadowy  thing 
when  compared  with  what  moved  restlessly,  perhaps  even  dis- 
astrously, within  the  labyrinths  of  her  own  brain.  On  her  the 
mothering  of  the  whole  family  had  fallen  when  Michael  Hodnett 
buried  his  wife  in  Inchigeela. 

From  the  feet  of  the  sleeping  figure  the  ground  fell  away  down- 
wards to  a  bracken-covered  stream.  Beyond  the  bracken  it  rose 
again;  much  more  suddenly  however,  so  suddenly  indeed  that  the 
red  earth  showed  in  patches  through  the  tangled  greenery.  Those 
reddish  patches  looked  like  corbels  supporting  the  cornice-like 
ledge  of  the  upward-sloping  grazing  grounds  above.  Just  now, 
along  that  sun-drenched  ledge,  a  procession  of  shapely  deep-uddered 
cattle  was  moving  from  left  to  right,  the  beasts  in  single  file  or  in 
pairs  or  groups,  deliberately  pacing.  Thirty-one  milkers  were  to 
pass  like  that,  making  for  the  unseen  bridgeway  across  the  stream 
in  the  hollow.  Presently  they  would  dip  from  sight  and  again  be 
discovered  in  the  tree-covered  passage  trailing  up  towards  the  milk- 
ing sheds,  the  rich  sunshine  catching  their  deep-coloured  flanks  and 
slipping  swiftly  and  suddenly  from  their  horns  and  moving  limbs. 
Anyone  who  had  ever  come  to  know  how  deeply  the  sight  of  that 
afternoon  ritual  used  to  thrill  the  old  man,  now  so  sunken  in  his 
sleep,  could  hardly  forbear  from  waking  him  to  witness  it. 

Behind  the  cattle  sauntered  Nicholas.  His  head  was  bent,  and  in 


210  DANIEL   CORKERY 

his  right  hand  a  sliver  from  a  sally  tree  lazily  switched  the  cattle 
along.  Although  a  working  day,  he  was  dressed  in  his  Sunday 
clothes.  His  gaiters  were  new,  rich  brown  in  colour,  and  had  straps 
about  them;  his  boots  also  were  new  and  brown.  All  day  since 
morning  his  visitors,  his  brothers  Stephen  and  Finnbarr  and  their 
people,  had  been  away  motoring  in  the  hills  towards  the  west — 
around  Keimaneigh  and  Gougane  Barra — and  he  had  found  the  idle 
day  as  long  as  a  week.  'Stay  where  you  are/  he  had  said  to  one  of  the 
labourers  who  were  digging  out  potatoes  in  the  fields  behind  the 
house;  'stay  where  you  are,  and  I'll  bring  them  in/  and  he  was  glad 
of  the  chance  to  go  through  the  fields  one  after  another  until  he 
was  come  to  where  the  impatient  cattle  were  gathered,  anxious 
and  crying,  about  the  fastened  gate.  Their  time  for  milking  was 
overdue,  and  they  needed  no  urging  towards  the  sheds.  When 
they  were  safe  across  the  bridge  he  left  them  to  themselves:  by 
that  time  the  first  of  them  were  already  head-bound  in  the  stalls. 
Closing  a  gate  behind  them  he  made  diagonally  up  the  sloping 
field.  At  his  approach  his  father  suddenly  raised  his  head. 

'Tisn't  Sunday?'  he  said,  and  then,  recollecting  himself:  'They 
haven't  come  back  yet?' 

'Any  moment  now/  Nicholas  answered.  He  then  turned  his  back 
on  him  and  gazed  across  the  countryside  where  a  couple  of  roads 
could  be  picked  out.  The  weather  had  been  very  fine  for  some 
weeks  and  little  clouds  of  sunny  dust  wavered  above  them. 

'Are  the  cows  in?' 

'I'm  after  bringing  them  across/ 

'Is  Finn  after  looking  at  them?' 

'Yes,  he'd  get  rid  of  the  Kerry,  he  said/ 

'Didn't  I  tell  you!  Didn't  I  tell  you!' 

He  had  filled  up  with  passionate  life.  As  he  blurted  out  the 
words,  he  raised  his  heavy  stick  in  his  blob  of  a  hand.  Nicholas 
glanced  away  from  him,  and  again  searched  the  countryside  with 
his  eyes: 

'They  won't  be  long  now:  'tis  as  good  for  us  to  be  going  in!' 

He  put  his  arm  beneath  his  father's.  He  lifted  him.  The  old  man's 
right  foot  trailed  uselessly  along  the  ground.  But  his  thoughts  were 
on  the  cows: 

"Tis  often  I  do  be  thinking  on  the  two  beasts  we  had  and  we 
coming  hither  from  Carrig-an-afrinn.  Scraggy  animals,  scraggy, 
splintery  things/ 


ROCK-OF-THE-MASS  211 


Mrs.  Muntleberry,  the  young  American  widow,  and  her  sister, 
Stephen's  wife,  were  both  thoughtful  gentle  women;  it  was  plain  in 
their  quiet  eyes,  their  quiet  faces.  After  the  meal,  homely  in  its 
way,  but  good,  they  now  sat  bent  forward  earnestly  staring  at  the 
old  man  who  was  keeping  himself  so  alert  and  upright  in  their 
midst,  ruling  the  roomful  with  word,  gesture,  glance.  Of  his  power 
of  work,  of  his  downrightness,  they  had,  of  course,  often  heard 
from  Stephen:  in  Stephen  himself  they  had  found  something  of  the 
same  character:  until  today,  however,  they  had  not  realized 
how  timid  in  him  were  the  strong  traits  of  his  father's  character. 
They  had  been  motoring  in  a  world  of  rock-strewn  hillsides;  they 
had  swung  into  glens  that  struck  them  cold,  so  bleak  they  were,  so 
stern-looking  even  in  the  softest  tide  of  the  year.  Carrig-an-afrinn 
they  had  not  actually  passed  through:  it  would  have  meant  thread- 
ing slowly  up  many  twisting  narrow  hillside  bohereens  in  which 
their  car  could  scarcely  turn:  perhaps  also  Stephen  had  not  cared 
to  have  them  actually  come  upon  the  bedraggled  homestead — little 
else  than  a  hut — from  which  the  Hodnetts  had  risen.  They  had, 
however,  gone  as  close  to  it  as  the  main  road  allowed  them,  had 
seen,  and  felt  almost  in  their  bones,  the  niggardliness  of  life  among 
those  hillsides  of  tumultuously  tumbled  rocks.  That  wayfaring  in 
bleak  places  had  brought  them  to  understand  Stephen's  father;  even 
if  he  were  no  different  this  evening,  had  remained  as  he  had  been 
ever  since  their  arrival — drowsing  between  sleep  and  waking, 
mumbling  old  songs,  sometimes  losing  count  of  who  they  were — 
they  would  nevertheless  because  of  this  day's  excursioning  have 
more  deeply  understood  the  tough  timber  that  was  in  him.  But  all 
the  evening  he  had  been  quite  different.  The  names  of  old  places,  of 
old  families,  had  been  in  the  air  about  him.  He  grew  young  to  hear 
them,  to  bethink  himself  of  them.  They  had  aroused  him.  Stephen 
had  forgotten  many  of  them.  He  would  say,  '  'Tis  north  from  In- 
chimore,'  and  his  father  had  enough  to  catch  at:  '  'Tis  the  Sweeneys 
were  north  of  Inchimore.  'Tis  Keimcorravoola  you're  thinking 
of.'  And  of  itself  either  the  place  name  or  the  family  name  was 
enough  to  spur  the  old  man's  brain  to  all  manner  of  recollections.  So 
it  had  been  with  him  all  the  evening,  alert  as  they  had  never  seen 
him,  a  new  man,  and  not  a  bit  modest  about  his  powers  when 
young,  whether  at  fighting  or  hurley  or  farming.  His  stick  was  in 


212  DANIEL   CORKERY 

the  air  about  their  heads:  and  once  without  warning  he  had 
brought  it  down  on  the  table,  making  them  all  leap  to  their  feet 
and  grab  at  the  dancing  tea  things — down  with  all  his  force  lest 
they  should  not  clearly  understand  how  final  had  been  the  stroke 
with  which  he  had  felled  a  Twomey  man  in  a  faction  fight  at 
Ballyvourney.  And  when  in  speaking  of  some  other  ancient  wres- 
tling bout  he  referred  to  his  adversary's  trunk,  how  he  had  clasped 
it  and  could  not  be  shaken  off,  the  two  women  looked  at  himself, 
alert  yet  lumpish  before  them,  noted  his  body's  girth  and  depth, 
and  felt  that  'trunk'  was  indeed  the  right  word  to  use  of  such  bodies. 

Finn's  wife,  the  Kerry  woman,  was  enjoying  it  heartily.  Her 
Kerry  eyes,  deep  hazel  in  colour,  were  dancing  to  watch  the  old 
man's  antics,  grotesque  and  unashamed,  were  dancing  also  to  note 
the  quiet,  stilly,  well-schooled  Americans  opening  the  doors  of  their 
minds  to  comprehend  adequately  this  rough-hewn  chunk  of 
peasant  human  kind.  The  expression  coming  and  going  on  the 
faces  of  the  three  sons,  she  also  enjoyed.  She  watched  to  see  how 
they  took  every  gross  countryside  word  and  phrase  that  would  un- 
concernedly break  from  the  old  man's  lips.  Her  own  Finn  she  held 
for  the  cleverest  of  them  because  he  had  the  gift  of  slipping  in 
some  contrary  word  that  would  excite  his  father  to  still  more  en- 
ergetic gestures  or  more  emphatic  expletives. 

In  time  old  Hodnett  had  exhausted  the  tale  of  the  great  deeds 
of  his  prime:  a  gentler  mood  descended  on  him:  'Like  you'd  shut 
that  door,  or  like  you'd  tear  a  page  out  of  a  book  and  throw  it  from 
you,  I  put  an  end  to  all  that  folly  and  wildness.  Listen  now,  let  ye 
listen  now,  this  is  what  happened  and  I  coming  over  here  from 
Carrig-an-afrinn.' 


He  told  them  how  on  that  day  which  of  all  the  days  of  his  long 
life  stood  most  clearly  before  his  mind,  he  had  made  swiftly 
home  from  the  fair  at  Macroom.  Michael,  his  eldest  son,  a  boy  of 
about  sixteen  years  at  the  time,  had  hastened  down  from  the 
potato  field  on  hearing  the  jolting  of  the  returning  cart.  As  usual 
with  him  he  examined  his  father's  face.  He  was  at  first  relieved  and 
then  puzzled  to  discover  from  it  that  his  father  had  scarcely  taken 
any  drink  during  that  long  day  of  absence  from  home,  of  boon 


ROCK-OF-THE-MASS  213 

companionship  in  the  town.  More  than  that,  his  father  was  going 
about  in  a  sort  of  constraint,  as  if  he  had  had  something  happen  to 
him  while  away,  or  had  come  upon  some  tidings  which  now  must 
be  dwelt  upon  within  himself.  Yet  he  did  not  seem  gloomy  or 
rough,  and  he  could  be  gloomy  enough  and  rough  enough  when 
the  fit  was  on  him.  Often  and  often  after  a  long  day  in  Macroom, 
he  had  turned  in  from  the  road,  flung  the  reins  on  the  horse's 
back,  and  without  preface  begun  to  heap  malediction  on  the  head 
of  the  villain  pig  buyers  from  Cork  with  whom  he  had  been  traf- 
ficking. To-day  he  was  different: 

Is  Johnny  above?'  he  questioned  his  son  as  he  loosed  the  horse 
from  the  shafts.  The  boy  nodded. 

'Up  with  you  then.  Up  with  you  while  there's  light  in  it.' 

The  boy,  climbing  up  to  where  he  had  left  old  Johnny,  who  was 
helping  them  to  dig  out  the  potatoes,  was  still  wondering  over  the 
mood  his  father  had  returned  in. 

'What  is  he  after  getting?'  the  labourer  asked  him. 

'Four  ten/ 

'He'd  get  more  in  Dunmanway  last  Friday.' 

'He's  satisfied.  He  says  he  is.' 

Before  long  they  saw  himself  coming  through  the  gap.  'What 
way  are  they  up  along  there?'  he  asked  them,  nodding  his  head 
towards  the  sloping  ridges  they  had  been  digging. 

'Small  enough  then,'  his  son  answered. 

The  father  stooped  and  picked  up  one  of  the  potatoes.  He  began 
to  rub  it  between  his  finger  and  thumb. 

'They'll  be  different  in  Dunerling  East,'  his  son  said,  complacently 
tossing  his  head. 

As  if  that  were  the  last  thing  he  had  expected  to  come  from  the 
boy's  lips  his  father  looked  sharply  at  him. 

Dunerling  East  was  the  farm  he  had  been  for  several  weeks 
negotiating  the  purchase  of.  It  was  ten  miles  away  towards  the 
east,  ten  miles  farther  from  the  hardness  of  the  mountains,  the  cold 
rains,  the  winds,  the  mists.  In  those  ten  miles  the  barren  hills  that 
separate  Cork  from  Kerry  had  space  to  stretch  themselves  out,  to 
die  away  into  gentle  curves,  to  become  soft  and  kind.  So  curiously 
his  father  had  looked  at  him  the  boy  wondered  if  something  had  not 
happened  to  upset  the  purchase.  He  was  not  surprised  when  his 
father,  peering  at  him  under  his  brows,  spoke  to  him  in  a  cold 


214  DANIEL   CORKERY 

'The  potatoes  might  be  better.  The  grass  too.  And  the  cattle. 
Only  the  Hodnetts  might  be  worse.' 

Michael  glanced  at  the  labourer,  then  back  at  his  father.  He 
found  him  still  skinning  the  potato  with  his  hard  thumb.  But  he 
could  also  see,  young  and  all  as  he  was,  that  his  thought  was  not  on 
the  potato,  big  or  little.  The  labourer  had  once  more  bent  to  his 
digging;  and  Michael,  withdrawing  his  eyes  slowly  from  his  father's 
face,  spat  on  his  hands  and  gripped  the  spade:  yet  he  could  not  re- 
sist saying: 

'They're  poor  return  for  a  man's  labour.' 

He  scornfully  touched  the  potatoes  hither  and  thither  with  the 
tip  of  his  spade,  freeing  them  from  the  turfy  earth,  black  and 
fibrous.  They  were  indeed  small. 

The  father  seemed  careless  of  their  size.  He  stood  there,  a  solid 
piece  of  humankind,  huge,  big-faced,  with  small  round  eyes, 
shrewd-looking,  not  unhumorous.  He  said:  If  I  hadn't  that  fifty 
pound  paid  on  it,  I'd  put  Dunerling  East  out  of  my  mind.' 

He  turned  from  them  and  made  for  the  gap  through  which  he  had 
come.  They  questioned  each  other  with  their  eyes  and  then  stared 
after  the  earnest  figure  until  the  broken  hillside  swallowed  it  up. 

It  was  a  soft,  still  evening.  Here  and  there  a  yellow  leaf  fell  from 
the  few  scattered  birch  trees  growing  among  the  rocks  which,  on 
every  side,  surrounded  the  little  patch  of  tilled  earth.  A  robin  was 
singing  quietly,  patiently — the  robin's  way.  The  air  was  moist;  and 
because  a  break  in  the  weather  seemed  near,  they  worked  on,  the 
two  of  them,  until  they  could  no  longer  see  the  potatoes.  Then 
Johnny  straightened  his  back,  lit  his  bit  of  a  pipe  and  shouldered 
his  spade.  Together  both  of  them,  taking  long  slow  strides,  made 
down  towards  the  house.  Suddenly  the  boy  said: 

'Look  at  himself!' 

They  saw  him  standing  upright  on  one  of  the  numerous  ledges 
of  rock  which  broke  up  through  the  surface  of  their  stubble 
field.  He  had  his  back  towards  them.  He  was  staring  downwards, 
overlooking  his  own  land,  towards  the  straggling  road,  staring  in- 
tently, although  little  except  the  general  shape  of  the  countryside 
could  now  be  distinguished. 

'Is  it?  Is  it  him  at  all,  do  you  think?'  old  Johnny  asked. 

"Tis  sure,'  Michael  answered.  Then  he  cried  out,  sending  the 
vowels  travelling: 


ROCK-OF-THE-MASS  215 

'Ho-o!  Ho-o!' 

His  father  turned  and  after  a  pause  began  to  make  towards  them. 
Awkwardly  they  awaited  him;  they  did  not  know  what  to  say.  He 
said: 

'  'Tis  at  Carrig-an-afrinn  I  was  looking.' 

Carrig-an-afrinn  was  the  name  of  the  whole  farm,  a  large  dis- 
trict, mostly  a  hillside  of  rock  and  heather;  they  were  standing  in 
Carrig-an-afrinn:  but  they  understood  that  what  he  had  been  look- 
ing at  was  Carrig-an-afrinn  itself — the  Rock  of  the  Mass,  the  iso- 
lated pile  of  rock  by  the  roadside  from  which  the  ploughland  had 
got  its  name. 

They  walked  beside  him  then. 

I'm  after  hearing  a  thing  this  day  I  never  knew  before,'  he  said, 
and  then  stopping  up  and  examining  their  faces  he  added: 

"Tis  what  I  heard:  In  any  place  where  a  Mass  was  ever  cele- 
brated an  angel  is  set  on  guard  for  ever  and  ever.' 

'  'Twould  be  a  likely  thing,'  the  old  labourer  said. 

1  never  heard  tell  of  it,'  Michael  said. 

'Myself  never  heard  tell  of  it,'  his  father  snapped  out. 

'  'Twould  be  a  likely  thing,'  old  Johnny  said  again,  'remembering 
the  nature  of  the  Mass.' 

'Who  was  it  told  you?' 

'One  who  was  well  able!' 

The  three  of  them  turned  and  looked  downwards  towards  the 
rough  altar-like  pile  of  rock  where  Mass  used  to  be  said  secretly  for 
the  people  in  the  penal  days  when  it  was  felony  to  celebrate  Mass 
in  public.  Only  the  pile  of  rock  was  visible,  and  that  not  distinctly, 
so  thick  the  light  had  become. 

'You  know  very  well  that  Mass  was  said  there  hundreds  and  hun- 
dreds of  times.' 

The  father  spoke  to  his  son  almost  as  if  he  had  been  contradict- 
ing him.  He  received  no  reply.  Then  he  added  in  a  suddenly- 
deepened  voice: 

'Likely  that  place  is  thick  with  angels.' 

The  labourer  uncovered  his  head  without  a  word. 

In  stillness  they  stood  there  on  the  lonely  hillside;  and  in  the 
darkening  rocks  and  fields  there  was  no  sound,  except  of  small 
things  stirring  at  their  feet.  After  a  few  seconds,  the  farmer  faced 
again  for  the  house.  Without  thought,  it  seemed,  he  avoided  the 


216  DANIEL   CORKERY 

rocky  patches.  Indeed  even  at  midnight  he  could  have  walked  un- 
perplexed  through  those  rockstrewn  fields.  The  others  heard  his 
voice  coming  to  them  in  the  dusk  over  his  shoulder: 

'  Tis  a  strange  thing  that  I  never  heard  of  that  wonder  until 
I'm  just  leaving  the  place  for  good  and  all.  A  strange  thing;  and  it 
frightens  me.' 

When  they  found  themselves  free  of  the  fields  and  in  the  poirse, 
or  laneway,  that  led  up  to  their  yard,  he  said  again  with  sudden 
passion: 

'  'Tis  a  small  thing  would  make  me  break  the  bargain.' 

The  boy  flared  up: 

'A  queer  thing  you'd  do  then.' 

'Queer!' 

It  may  be  years  and  years  before  we  have  the  chance  of  buying 
a  place  like  Dunerling  East.' 

He  spoke  the  name  as  if  that  of  itself  were  worth  the  purchase 
money. 

'Carrig-an-afrinn  is  not  a  bad  farm  at  all.' 

At  this  Michael  burst  out: 

'Johnny,  do  you  hear  him?  And  he  raging  and  swearing  at  them 
rocks  as  long  as  I  remember — raging  and  swearing  at  them  as  if 
they  were  living  men  and  they  against  him!  And  he  praying  to  God 
to  take  us  out  of  it  before  his  eyes  were  blinded  with  the  years. 
And  now  he'd  stay  in  it!' 

Of  that  incident  and  of  the  night  that  followed  it,  the  old  man, 
forty-four  years  after,  remembered  every  detail — every  word 
spoken  and  every  thought  that  disturbed  his  rest. 


Having  given  them  to  understand  all  that  has  been  here  set 
down,  he  went  on:  1  tell  ye,  I  didn't  shut  an  eye  that  night,  only 
thinking  and  thinking  and  I  twisting  and  turning  in  my  bed.  When 
I  looked  back  through  the  years  and  thought  of  what  a  poor  place 
Carrig-an-afrinn  was — there  was  scarcely  a  poorer — 'twas  little  less 
than  a  miracle  to  have  me  able  to  buy  out  a  big  place  like  this — a 
place  that  had  been  in  the  grip  of  the  gentry  for  hundreds  and  hun- 
dreds of  years.  And  up  to  that  I  always  thought  that  I  had  no  one 
to  thank  for  it  but  myself — the  strength  of  my  own  four  bones, 


1 


ROCK-OF-THE-MASS  217 

but  after  what  I  was  told  in  Macroom  that  day,  how  did  I  know  but 
that  maybe  it  was  in  Carrig-an-afrinn  itself  the  luck  was?  and  that 
good  fortune  would  follow  whoever  lived  in  it  like  good  Christians, 
and  that  maybe  secret  friends  would  help  them,  and  they  at  the 
ploughing  or  waiting  up  in  the  nights  for  a  calf  to  come,  or  a 
young  foal  or  a  litter  of  bonamhs  itself?  Who  knows?  Who  knows? 
And  what  puzzled  me  entirely  was  that  I  should  be  ignorant  of 
all  that  until  the  very  day,  as  you  may  say,  I  was  settled  on  leaving 
it.  It  frightened  me.  While  we  were  in  Carrig-an-afrinn  no  great 
sickness  befell  us  or  misfortune,  except  a  horse  to  break  his  leg  or 
a  cow  to  miscarry  or  a  thing  like  that;  and  I  thought  of  all  the 
strong  farmers  I  was  after  seeing  in  my  time,  and  they  having  to 
sell  off  their  places  and  scatter  away  with  themselves  into  Cork  or 
Dublin,  or  maybe  to  America  itself.  Sure  this  place  itself,  if  ye  saw 
it  when  we  came  hither,  the  dirty  state  'twas  in,  the  land  gone 
back,  exhausted,  and  the  house  and  sheds  broken,  everything  in 
wrack  and  ruin — 'tisn't  with  a  light  heart  ye'd  undertake  it.  But  of 
course  only  for  that  I  couldn't  have  bought  it  all  at  all.  So  I  said  to 
myself,  and  I  listening  to  the  clock  ticking  at  the  foot  of  the  bed, 
I'm  undertaking  that  big  place,  and  maybe  'twon't  thrive  with 
me.  And  if  it  fails  me,  where  am  I?  That's  what  I  said.  If  it  fails  me, 
where  am  I?  I  tell  ye,  I  was  broken  with  thinking  on  it.  And  all 
the  time,  and  this  is  the  queerest  thing  of  all,  I  heard  someone  say- 
ing, "Carrig-an-afrinn,  Carrig-an-afrinn.  Carrig-an-afrinn,  Carrig-an- 
afrinn."  And  not  once  or  twice  or  three  times,  but  all  the  night  long, 
and  I  thinking  and  thinking.  Of  course,  there  was  no  one  saying 
it  at  all,  only  maybe  the  beating  of  my  own  heart  to  be  like  a  tune. 
But  I  was  afraid.  I  thought  maybe  music  might  come  rising  up  to 
me  out  of  the  cummer,  and  it  thronged  with  angels,  or  a  great  light 
come  striking  in  at  the  window.  And  sure  enough  at  last  I  started 
up  and  I  cried  out,  "There  it  is!  There  it  is!"  But  'twas  no  unnat- 
ural light  at  all,  only  the  dawn  of  day  breaking  in  on  top  of  me. 
'Tis  how  I  was  after  dozing  off  for  a  little  while  unknown  to  my- 
self, and  I  woke  up  suddenly  in  confusion  and  dread. 

'That  morning  and  I  rising  up  my  limbs  were  like  wisps  of  straw. 
I  was  terrified  of  the  long  day  before  me,  and  that's  the  worst 
way  a  man  can  be.  But  when  I  came  out  and  stood  in  the  broad 
sun,  and  'twas  a  morning  of  white  frost,  I  drew  in  the  air  to  my- 
self, and  I  took  courage  to  see  my  poor  animals  grazing  so  peace- 
fully on  the  hill,  just  like  what  you  see  in  a  picture.  If  the  big  farms 


218  DANIEL   CORKERY 

broke  the  men  that  were  born  to  softness  and  luxury,  Dunerling 
East  wouldn't  break  me,  and  I  reared  hard  and  tough!  That's  what 
I  said,  with  great  daring  in  my  breast. 

'Not  long  after  that  we  moved  our  handful  of  stock  east  to  this 
place.  I  laughed  to  picture  the  two  scraggy  beasts,  and  all  the  deep 
feeding  of  Dunerling  East  to  themselves.  And  that  same  evening 
myself  and  Michael,  Michael  that's  dead,  God  rest  him,  went  over 
and  hither  and  in  and  out  through  the  length  and  breadth  of  this 
estate  and  round  by  the  boundary  ditch;  and  'tis  a  thing  I  will  not 
forget  till  my  dying  day  what  he  said  to  me,  my  son  Michael,  that 
same  evening,  and  we  killed  from  the  exertion.  He  stopped  and 
looked  up  at  me  before  he  spoke: 

'  "Look,"  he  said,  "why  have  you  your  hands  like  that?" 

'My  two  hands,  clenched,  and  stiff,  stiff,  like  you'd  have  them  in 
a  fight,  watching  your  opponent,  watching  to  catch  him  off  his 
guard,  or  for  fear  he'd  spring  on  you.  That's  how  I  had  my  hands. 
And  'twas  natural  for  me  to  have  my  hands  like  that,  for  what  I 
was  saying  to  myself  was:  I'll  break  it!  I'll  break  it!  And  I  was  say- 
ing that  because  if  I  didn't  break  it  I  was  sport  for  the  world.  Like  a 
bully  at  a  fair  I  was,  going  about  my  own  land  the  first  day  I 
walked  it!' 

In  recalling  the  labours  of  his  prime  he  had  become  a  new  man. 
When  they  looked  at  him  they  saw  not  the  stricken  old  crea- 
ture whose  days  were  now  spent  in  the  drowsy  sun,  but  the  in- 
domitable peasant  who  had  wrung  enough  from  the  rocks  of 
Carrig-an-afrinn  to  buy  out  Dunerling  East  from  the  broken  gentry, 
and  who  then  had  reclaimed  Dunerling  East  from  its  hundred 
years  of  neglect.  When  he  could  not  find  words  to  fit  his  thought 
his  left  eye  would  close  tight,  and  one  big  tooth,  that  he  still  re- 
tained in  his  upper  gum,  would  dig  itself  into  his  lower  lip,  until 
the  struggling  words  came  to  him.  And  they  noticed  that  his  two 
hands  had  clenched  themselves  long  before  he  needed  them 
clenched  to  illustrate  how  it  was  he  had  tackled  the  reclamation  of 
the  sluggish  marshlands  of  Dunerling  East.  His  own  sons  quailed 
before  him.  The  two  Americans  had  drawn  together,  shoulder 
touching  shoulder:  they  watched  him  across  the  table  with  wide 
eyes,  their  faces  drawn.  The  creamery  manager  from  Kerry  dared 
no  longer  to  put  in  his  jocose  word.  He  wished  rather  to  be  able 
to  draw  off  the  old  man's  mind  from  this  renewal  of  the  unrelent- 
ing warfare  of  his  manhood.  But  no  such  word  could  he  find: 


ROCK-OF-THE-MASS  219 

his  father  was  abroad  in  a  passion  of  fictitious  energy:  it  would  in- 
deed be  a  potent  word  that  could  stay  or  hinder  him.  Every  now 
and  then  the  timbers  of  the  heavy  chair  groaned  beneath  the  move- 
ment of  his  awkward  carcase.  He  was  unconscious  of  it.  It  meant  as 
little  to  him  as  his  own  exposing  of  the  shifts,  the  meanness,  the 
overreaching,  the  unintentional  tyranny  he  had  practised  while 
he  worked  out  his  dream. 

'My  poor  boy,  Michael/  he  went  on,  'was  the  first  to  go.  He  was 
great  for  the  work.  For  a  boy  that  was  slight  and  tender  I  never 
saw  the  equal  of  him.  'Twas  how  he  had  great  spirit.  A  word  was 
worse  to  him  than  a  whip.  When  we'd  be  cutting  the  deep  grass 
in  the  inches,  half  a  dozen  of  us  all  in  a  line,  and  he'd  fall  behind, 
being  young  and  soft,  I'd  say  to  him,  "Ah,  Michael,"  I'd  say,  "God 
be  with  the  little  fields  of  Carrig-an-afrinn,  you  could  cut  them 
with  a  scissors";  that  would  bring  him  into  line  I  tell  ye.  The 
poor  boy.  'Twas  pleurisy  he  got  first;  and  we  thought  nothing  of  it: 
maybe  we  didn't  take  it  in  time.  But  what  chance  was  there  to  be 
taking  him  into  Macroom  to  the  doctor,  or  from  one  holy  well  to 
another?  The  time  he  died  too,  it  could  not  be  a  worse  time.  Her- 
self was  after  bringing  little  Stephen  into  the  world — and  before 
she  was  rightly  fit  the  harvest  was  upon  us;  and  'twas  the  first  real 
good  harvest  we  got  out  of  Dunerling  East.  When  I  looked  at  it 
standing  I  said:  "  'Tis  my  doing  and  my  boy's  doing,  and  my  boy  is 
dead!"  But  herself  was  better  than  any  man  in  a  harvest  field. 
Maybe  she  overworked  herself.  She  wasn't  the  one  to  give  in.  The 
day  she  was  laid  in  Inchigeela  'tis  well  if  I  didn't  curse  the  day  I 
came  hither  from  Carrig-an-afrinn.  Father  O'Herlihy  was  standing 
by.  "The  Lord  giveth  and  the  Lord  taketh  away,"  he  said,  and  his 
hand  on  my  shoulder,  and  'twas  all  I  could  do  to  say  "Amen"  to 
that.  There  I  was  with  a  houseful  of  them  about  me  and  only 
herself,  that  poor  thing  inside,  only  herself  to  do  a  ha'porth  for 
them.  I  don't  blame  her  for  being  as  she  is — knitting,  knitting,  knit- 
ting, or  looking  into  the  fire  and  thinking — I  don't  blame  her  at  all. 
What  she  went  through  after  that,  pulling  and  hauling  and  slash- 
ing and  digging,  'twould  kill  half  a  parish.  Up  at  four  in  the  morn- 
ing getting  the  pigs'  food  ready,  or  the  mash  for  the  calves;  and 
milking  the  cows,  and  keeping  the  children  from  mischief.  The 
only  other  girl  I  had,  she  was  second  after  Nicholas  there,  I  lost 
her  just  when  she  was  rising  to  be  of  use  to  me.  'Twas  a  fever  she 
got  from  drinking  bad  water.  And  the  two  boys  I  lost  after  that, 


220  DANIEL   CORKERY 

one  of  them  was  the  terror  of  the  countryside.  He  turned  against 
herself  inside;  he  was  wild  and  fiery.  Mind  you,  he  dared  me  to  my 
face.  He  said  what  no  son  of  mine  ever  said  to  me.  I  won't  repeat  it. 
I  won't  repeat  it.  The  eyes  were  blazing  in  his  head.  The  delicacy 
was  showing  in  him.  The  brains  of  that  kind  is  a  terror.  He  went 
off  with  himself  and  left  me  in  the  lurch.  And  then  he  came  back — 
one  twelvemonth  after — and  'tis  like  herself  inside  he  was.  Only 
bitter,  and  the  health  wasted.  The  same  as  any  labouring  boy  he 
walked  in  to  me.  Not  a  shirt  to  his  back,  or  what  you  could  call  a 
shirt.  He  shamed  me,  the  way  he  was.  And  he  dying  on  his  feet. 
'Twas  a  dead  man  was  patrolling  the  fields  for  months  before  he 
took  to  the  bed  entirely.  And  I  daren't  say  a  word  to  him  because 
he  had  a  tongue  would  raise  blisters  on  a  withered  skull.  The  other 
poor  boy,  his  name  was  Laurence,  was  a  handsome  boy.  Every- 
body used  to  say  he'd  make  a  handsome  priest.  But  sure  at  that 
time  I  couldn't  dream  of  such  a  thing.  It  takes  a  power  of  money 
to  make  a  priest.  He  died  of  pneumonia,  and  not  a  thing  to  hap- 
pen to  him  only  a  bit  of  a  pain  in  his  side.  Only  for  that  I  hadn't 
time  to  be  thinking  on  it  I'd  be  saying  there  was  a  curse  on  top  of 
us;  but  no,  because  year  after  year  the  produce  was  getting  better 
and  better;  and  in  spite  of  all  the  sickness  and  deaths  and  funerals — 
and  funerals  are  the  greatest  robbers  of  all — the  money  began  to 
rise  up  on  me,  and  I  could  get  in  the  help  when  I  wanted  it — 'tis 
often  I  had  a  score  of  men  at  the  harvesting,  besides  what  neigh- 
bors would  come  of  themselves.  Those  there  (he  nodded  at  his 
three  sons,  all  of  them  sitting  with  bowed  heads,  with  pipes  in 
their  mouths,  not  daring  to  break  across  his  speech) — those  there, 
they  only  knew  the  end  of  the  story.  Ah  boys,  ah  boys,  the  soft- 
ness comes  out  of  the  hard,  like  the  apple  from  the  old  twisted 
bough,  and  'tis  only  the  softness  ye  knew  of.  And  then  in  the  end  of 
it  all,  the  great  change  in  the  laws  came  about  and  I  bought  out 
the  land  and  'twas  my  own,  as  you  may  say.  The  day  I  signed  for 
it,  a  sort  of  lowness  came  over  me,  and  I  remembered  my  poor 
dead  boy  saying,  and  he  my  first  born.  "Look  how  you're  holding 
your  hands!"  Let  ye  listen  to  me  now;  I  cried  down  my  eyes  to  my 
own  self  that  night  because  herself  was  in  the  clay.  That  poor 
soul  inside,  you  might  as  well  be  talking  to  a  cock  of  last  year's  hay, 
dull  with  the  weather  and  the  sun,  you'd  only  get  "yes"  and  "no" 
for  an  answer.  And  the  rest — those  here — were  too  young.  What  I 
did  was :  to  send  over  for  old  Johnny,  old  Johnny  I  would  have  help- 


ROCK-OF-THE-MASS  221 

ing  me  an  odd  time  in  Carrig-an-afrinn,  to  come  over  to  me,  that  I 
wanted  him.  God  knows  all  I  wanted  him  for  was  to  keep  me  in 
talk  against  that  terrible  fit  of  darkness  and  loneliness  would  fall  on 
me  again.  He  came  over  and  together  we  walked  the  land,  every 
perch  of  it.  He  knew  what  sort  it  was  when  we  came  hither,  and 
'tis  he  was  the  man  could  tell  the  difference.  What  he  said  was,  now, 
let  ye  listen,  let  ye  listen  to  what  he  said,  and  he  only  a  poor  igno- 
rant man:  "After  all,  'twas  only  a  rush  in  your  hand!"  Now  that 
was  what  a  wrestler  would  say  of  another  in  the  old  times,  "He  was 
only  a  rush  in  my  hands,"  meaning  by  that  that  he  had  no  trouble 
in  breaking  him.  That  was  great  praise  and  yet  it  couldn't  rouse  me 
for  I  was  after  walking  the  land  field  after  field;  and  one  field  I  found 
was  the  same  as  another.  That's  a  strange  thing  to  say.  Maybe  'tis 
how  I  was  old  and  I  coming  hither.  'Twas  in  Carrig-an-afrinn  I 
grew  up.  There  was  never  a  man  drove  a  handful  of  cattle  of  his 
own  rearing  to  a  fair  that  hadn't  some  favourite  among  them;  and 
he  sees  the  dealers  come  round  them  and  strike  them  and  push 
them,  and  knock  them  about,  and  he  knows  that  they  are  all  the 
same  to  him,  that  he  sees  no  difference  between  one  and  the  other, 
except  one  to  be  riper  than  another,  or  a  thing  like  that.  And 
'twas  so  with  me.  I  walked  my  fields  and  one  was  the  same  as  an- 
other. There  was  no  corner  of  them  that  I  could  make  for  when 
the  darkness  would  fall  on  me.  I  knew  'twould  be  different  in 
Carrig-an-afrinn.  And  that's  what  I  was  thinking  of  when  old 
Johnny  said  to  me  that  after  all  Dunerling  East  was  like  a  rush  in 
my  hands.  I  opened  my  heart  to  him.  I  told  him  I  felt  like  the 
steward  of  the  place,  and  not  like  the  owner  of  it.  He  said  'twasn't 
right  for  me  to  be  saying  a  thing  like  that,  that  'tis  down  on  my  two 
knees  I  should  be  and  I  thanking  God,  but  that  the  heart  of  man  was 
only  a  sieve.  The  very  next  day  and  I  still  going  about  like  that, 
counting  up  the  great  improvements  I  was  after  making  since  I 
came  in,  and  arguing  with  myself,  and  yet  dissatisfied  with  my- 
self, I  wandered  up  the  hillside  opposite,  and  whatever  turn  I  gave 
or  however  the  sun  was  shining,  'twas  about  four  o'clock  in  the 
evening,  I  saw  Doughill  and  Douse  rising  up  in  the  west  and  snug 
away  down  at  the  foot  of  Doughill  I  saw  a  little  shoulder  of  a 
hill,  and  "Honour  of  God,"  I  said,  "if  that  isn't  Carrig-an-afrinn  it- 
self!" Let  ye  listen  to  me,  I  fell  down  on  my  knees  in  thanksgiving 
like  a  pagan  would  be  praying  to  the  sun!  And  from  that  day  for- 
ward I  had  a  spot  of  land  to  turn  to  when  the  black  fit  would  fall 


222  DANIEL   CORKERY 

on  me.  Mind  you,  'twas  a  good  time  I  found  it,  for  while  I  was 
breaking  the  place  and  wrestling  with  it  I  didn't  think  of  anything 
else,  only  to  be  going  ahead  and  going  ahead.  But  'twas  different 
when  I  could  pay  for  the  help,  and  I  had  time  to  look  around,  and 
the  rent  wasn't  half  what  it  used  to  be.  Ah,  the  soft  comes  out  of 
the  hard,  and  the  little  lambs  from  the  hailstones.  If  Dunerling 
East  is  a  good  property  now  'twas  many  the  hot  sweat  fell  into  the 
sods  of  its  ridges.  But  sure  them  that  could  witness  to  that, 
they're  all  dead,  except  that  poor  thing  inside,  God  help  her;  and 
'tis  she  took  the  burden  as  well  as  the  next.' 


His  voice  fell  and  the  glow  of  exaltation  vanished  from  his  fea- 
tures. 

'They're  all  dead?'  Mrs.  Muntleberry  said,  quietly. 

'Dead!'  the  old  man  answered  her,  and  having  said  it,  his  head 
kept  on  moving  slightly  up  and  down  to  some  pulse  in  his  brain. 

'Then  these/  she  said  again,  and  indicated  the  three  sons  with 
her  eyes,  'these  are  a  second  crop.' 

'A  second  crop,'  he  said,  'except  that  poor  creature  inside.' 

They  found  it  hard  to  break  the  silence  that  had  fallen  on  them. 
Earlier  in  the  evening  both  Stephen  and  Finnbarr  had  been,  as 
one  might  say,  themselves — Stephen,  the  bakery  manager,  a 
hustler,  and  Finn,  the  creamery  manager,  not  unable  to  hustle 
also.  But  as  the  story  went  on,  and,  though  they  had  heard  it  all  in 
a  fragmentary  way  before,  they  had  scattered  from  the  homestead 
without  ever  having  made  themselves  one  clear  unified  picture  of 
what  coming  hither  from  Carrig-an-afrinn  had  meant  for  their 
father.  They  had  never  seen  him  clearly  as  one  who  would  not 
be  beaten,  no  matter  who  by  his  side  fell  worsted  in  the  struggle. 
Only  the  oldest  of  them,  Nicholas,  the  farmer,  could  recall  any  of 
the  dead,  and  he  was  a  soft  quiet  creature,  strong  of  body,  but  in- 
active of  brain.  The  one  mood,  however,  had  come  upon  all  three; 
they  were  not  much  different  from  what  they  had  been  before  they 
had  scattered,  from  what  they  had  been  when  Ellen  would  still 
them  by  whispering  the  one  word:  'Himself.' 

It  was  Finn  who  first  rose.  He  went  and  lightly  beat  the  inverted 
bowl  of  his  pipe  against  the  bars  of  the  fire  grate.  Then  drawing 


ROCK-OF-THE-MASS  223 

with  his  strong  lips  through  the  empty  stem,  head  in  the  air,  he 
took  a  few  steps  towards  the  window  and  drew  back  one  of  the 
heavy  curtains.  The  colour,  the  glow  had  gone  from  the  day.  In- 
stead there  were  now  everywhere  filmy  veils  of  mist.  Beyond  the 
sunken  stream  the  hillside  looked  near  and  the  screens  of  trees, 
ash  and  beech,  seemed  tall  and  unsubstantial:  in  the  twilight  soft- 
ness the  homely  features  of  farming  and  cattle  trafficking  were 
hidden  away.  The  scene  was  gracious  and  tender.  They  all  stared 
through  the  window. 

It  looks  fine,  so  it  does,'  Finn  said. 

'It  does;  it  looks  fine,'  his  wife  added,  letting  the  words  die  away. 

The  old  man  was  listening. 

'  'Tis  what  a  traveller  said,  and  he  a  man  that  had  recourse  to  all 
the  places  in  the  world,  'tis  what  he  said:  that  it  had  the  appear- 
ance of  a  gentleman's  place  out  and  out.' 

Mrs.  Muntleberry  turned  and  let  her  eyes  rest  softly  on  his  face: 

'Still  you  liked  Carrig-an-afrinn  too?' 

He  lifted  his  head;  such  words  he  had  not  expected:  'Ah,  ma'am, 
ah,  ma'am,'  he  said,  making  an  effort  to  move  his  trunk  so  that  he 
might  face  her  directly,  'Carrig-an-afrinn,  Carrig-an-afrinn,  the  very 
name  of  it,  the  very  name  of  it!'  And  he  stared  at  her  with  a  fixity 
of  expression  that  frightened  her,  stared  at  her  in  blank  hopeless- 
ness of  saying  even  the  first  word  of  all  the  words  that  rioted  within 
him.  He  recovered.  He  swept  his  hand  across  his  brow,  toying  with 
his  hair.  'They  tell  me  Pat  Leary,  who's  there  ever  since  we  came 
hither — there's  only  the  one  year  between  us — they  tell  me  he  sits  in 
the  cummer  an  odd  hour  at  the  foot  of  the  rock  where  the  Chalice 
used  to  stand.  His  work  is  done.  He'll  catch  hold  of  plough  nor 
snaffle  no  more,  same  as  myself.  'Tis  a  great  comfort  to  him  to  sit 
there.' 

She  was  sorry  she  had  brought  Carrig-an-afrinn  back  to  his 
thoughts. 

'The  heart  is  a  sieve,'  she  said,  watching  him  to  see  how  he'd 
take  old  Johnny's  word.  But  he  was  not  so  easily  moved  from  mood 
to  mood. 

'You  saw  it  to-day?'  he  questioned  earnestly,  'You  saw  it  to- 
day?' 

'We  went  quite  close  to  it.  Did  we  see  the  Rock  itself?  Did  we, 
Stephen?' 

Stephen  said  as  boldly  as  he  could: 


224  DANIEL   CORKERY 

'Oh  yes,  we  went  quite  close  to  it/ 

'Ah,  ma'am,  Nicholas  there,  some  day  he's  going  to  pack  me  into 
the  motor  car;  and  over  with  us  to  see  it.  It  can't  be  long  I  have  to 
stay.' 

Before  he  had  finished,  almost  indeed  at  the  first  word,  Nicholas 
had  risen  and  quietly  taken  down  a  shabby-looking  old  violin 
from  the  top  of  a  heavy  cupboard  that  stood  in  the  corner.  While 
they  all  looked  at  him  he  tuned  it  without  a  word,  and  to  him  tun- 
ing was  no  easy  task.  Then  he  stretched  his  two  long  legs  out 
from  the  chair  and  began  to  play. 

The  instrument  was  almost  toneless,  and  the  player  almost  with- 
out skill.  He  played  the  old  songs  of  the  countryside,  going  straight 
from  one  to  another,  from  a  caoine1  to  a  reel,  from  a  love  song  to 
a  lively  rattle  about  cattle-dealing  or  horse  racing.  Nerveless,  tone- 
less, yet  the  playing  was  quiet;  and  it  was  the  music  itself,  and 
not  the  instrument  or  musician  was  in  the  fiddler's  mind.  After  a 
while  this  the  Americans  noticed.  Then  the  scratching,  the  imper- 
fect intonation,  the  incongruous  transition  from  melody  to  melody 
disturbed  them  but  little.  He  played  on  and  on;  and  they  were  all 
thankful  to  him.  The  room  darkened,  but  the  sky  was  still  bright.  At 
last  he  lowered  the  fiddle,  a  string  needed  to  be  tightened.  The 
others  at  once  broke  into  talk.  Mrs.  Muntleberry  was  nearest  to 
Nicholas.  She  had  her  eyes  on  the  instrument.  He  noticed  how  at 
the  word  'Carrig-an-afrinn'  which  was  again  on  the  lips  of  the  old 
man,  her  head  had  raised  itself.  He  whispered  to  her,  without  taking 
his  eyes  off  his  task: 

'He'll  never  see  Carrig-an-afrinn  again.' 

'No?'  she  whispered  back,  with  a  little  gasp  of  surprise. 

'Nor  nobody  else,'  he  went  on;  'they're  after  blasting  it  away  to 
make  the  road  wider:  'tis  how  two  lorries  couldn't  pass  on  it.  I'm  in 
dread  of  my  life  he'll  find  it  out.  'Twould  be  terrible.' 

She  turned  her  eyes  on  the  old  man's  face.  The  music  had  re- 
stored him  again  to  confidence.  His  eyes  were  glowing.  He  had  re- 
established his  mastery.  'Let  ye  listen,  let  ye  listen  to  me,'  he  was 
saying. 

1  Keen,  lament  for  the  dead. 


Part  III 

OUR  OWN  RED  BLOOD 


O  plain  as  plain  can  be 

There's  nothing  but  our  own  red  blood 

Can  make  a  right  Rose  Tree. 

W.  B.  Yeats 


ae(george   russell) 

The  Dublin  Strike 

An  Open  Letter  to  the  Employers1 

oirs, — I  address  this  warning  to  you,  the  aristocracy  of  industry  in 
this  city,  because,  like  all  aristocracies,  you  tend  to  grow  blind  in 
long  authority,  and  to  be  unaware  that  you  and  your  class  and  its 
every  action  are  being  considered  and  judged  day  by  day  by  those 
who  have  power  to  shake  or  overturn  the  whole  social  order,  and 
whose  restlessness  in  poverty  to-day  is  making  our  industrial  civili- 
sation stir  like  a  quaking  bog.  You  do  not  seem  to  realise  that  your 
assumption  that  you  are  answerable  to  yourselves  alone  for  your 
actions  in  the  industries  you  control  is  one  that  becomes  less  and 
less  tolerable  in  a  world  so  crowded  with  necessitous  life.  Some  of 
you  have  helped  Irish  farmers  to  upset  a  landed  aristocracy  in  this 
island,  an  aristocracy  richer  and  more  powerful  in  its  sphere  than 
you  are  in  yours,  with  its  roots  deep  in  history.  They,  too,  as  a 
class,  though  not  all  of  them,  were  scornful  or  neglectful  of  the 
workers  in  the  industry  by  which  they  profited;  and  to  many  who 
knew  them  in  their  pride  of  place  and  thought  them  all-powerful 
they  are  already  becoming  a  memory,  the  good  disappearing  to- 
gether with  the  bad.  If  they  had  done  their  duty  by  those  from 
whose  labour  came  their  wealth,  they  might  have  continued  un- 
questioned in  power  and  prestige  for  centuries  to  come.  The  rela- 
tion of  landlord  and  tenant  is  not  an  ideal  one,  but  any  relations  in  a 
social  order  will  endure  if  there  is  infused  into  them  some  of  that 
spirit  of  human  sympathy  which  qualifies  life  for  immortality.  Des- 
potisms endure  while  they  are  benevolent,  and  aristocracies  while 
'noblesse  oblige'  is  not  a  phrase  to  be  referred  to  with  a  cynical 
smile.  Even  an  oligarchy  might  be  permanent  if  the  spirit  of  hu- 
man kindness,  which  harmonises  all  things  otherwise  incompatible, 
is  present. 

You  do  not  seem  to  read  history  so  as  to  learn  its  lessons.  That 
you  are  an  uncultivated  class  was  obvious  from  recent  utterances 
of  some  of  you  upon  art.  That  you  are  incompetent  men  in  the 
sphere  in  which  you  arrogate  imperial  powers  is  certain,  because 
for  many  years,  long  before  the  present  uprising  of  labour,  your 
enterprises  have  been  dwindling  in  the  regard  of  investors,  and 

1  Dublin,  October  6,  1913. 

227 


228  ae 

this  while  you  have  carried  them  on  in  the  cheapest  labour  market 
in  these  islands,  with  a  labour  reserve  always  hungry  and  ready 
to  accept  any  pittance.  You  are  bad  citizens,  for  we  rarely,  if  ever, 
hear  of  the  wealthy  among  you  endowing  your  city  with  the 
munificent  gifts  which  it  is  the  pride  of  merchant  princes  in  other 
cities  to  offer,  and  Irishmen  not  of  your  city,  who  offer  to  supply 
the  wants  left  by  your  lack  of  generosity,  are  met  with  derision  and 
abuse.  Those  who  have  economic  power  have  civic  power  also,  yet 
you  have  not  used  the  power  that  was  yours  to  right  what  was 
wrong  in  the  evil  administration  of  this  city.  You  have  allowed  the 
poor  to  be  herded  together  so  that  one  thinks  of  certain  places  in 
Dublin  as  of  a  pestilence.  There  are  twenty  thousand  rooms,  in 
each  of  which  live  entire  families,  and  sometimes  more,  where  no 
functions  of  the  body  can  be  concealed,  and  delicacy  and  modesty 
are  creatures  that  are  stifled  ere  they  are  born.  The  obvious  duty 
of  you  in  regard  to  these  things  you  might  have  left  undone,  and  it 
be  imputed  to  ignorance  or  forgetfulness;  but  your  collective  and 
conscious  action  as  a  class  in  the  present  labour  dispute  has  re- 
vealed you  to  the  world  in  so  malign  an  aspect  that  the  mirror 
must  be  held  up  to  you,  so  that  you  may  see  yourselves  as  every 
humane  person  sees  you. 

The  conception  of  yourselves  as  altogether  virtuous  and 
wronged  is,  I  assure  you,  not  at  all  the  one  which  onlookers  hold  of 
you.  No  doubt,  you  have  rights  on  your  side.  No  doubt,  some  of 
you  suffered  without  just  cause.  But  nothing  which  has  been  done 
to  you  cries  aloud  to  Heaven  for  condemnation  as  your  own  ac- 
tions. Let  me  show  you  how  it  seems  to  those  who  have  followed 
critically  the  dispute,  trying  to  weigh  in  a  balance  the  rights  and 
wrongs.  You  were  within  the  rights  society  allows  you  when  you 
locked  out  your  men  and  insisted  on  the  fixing  of  some  principle  to 
adjust  your  future  relations  with  labour  when  the  policy  of  labour 
made  it  impossible  for  some  of  you  to  carry  on  your  enterprises.  La- 
bour desired  the  fixing  of  some  such  principle  as  much  as  you  did. 
But,  having  once  decided  on  such  a  step,  knowing  how  many  thou- 
sands of  men,  women  and  children,  nearly  one-third  of  the  popu- 
lation of  this  city,  would  be  affected,  you  should  not  have  let  one 
day  have  passed  without  unremitting  endeavours  to  find  a  solution 
of  the  problem. 

What  did  you  do?  The  representatives  of  labour  unions  in  Great 
Britain  met  you,  and  you  made  of  them  a  preposterous,  an  impos- 


THE   DUBLIN    STRIKE  229 

sible  demand,  and  because  they  would  not  accede  to  it  you  closed 
the  Conference:  you  refused  to  meet  them  further:  you  assumed 
that  no  other  guarantees  than  those  you  asked  were  possible,  and 
you  determined  deliberately,  in  cold  anger,  to  starve  out  one-third 
of  the  population  of  this  city,  to  break  the  manhood  of  the  men  by 
the  sight  of  the  suffering  of  their  wives  and  the  hunger  of  their 
children.  We  read  in  the  Dark  Ages  of  the  rack  and  thumbscrew. 
But  these  iniquities  were  hidden  and  concealed  from  the  knowledge 
of  men  in  dungeons  and  torture-chambers.  Even  in  the  Dark  Ages 
humanity  could  not  endure  the  sight  of  such  suffering,  and  it  learnt 
of  such  misuse  of  power  by  slow  degrees,  through  rumour,  and 
when  it  was  certain  it  razed  its  Bastilles  to  their  foundations.  It  re- 
mained for  the  twentieth  century  and  the  capital  city  of  Ireland  to 
see  an  oligarchy  of  four  hundred  masters  deciding  openly  upon 
starving  one  hundred  thousand  people,  and  refusing  to  consider  any 
solution  except  that  fixed  by  their  pride.  You,  masters,  asked  men 
to  do  that  which  masters  of  labour  in  any  other  city  in  these  islands 
had  not  dared  to  do.  You  insolently  demanded  of  those  men  who 
were  members  of  a  trade  union  that  they  should  resign  from  that 
union;  and  from  those  who  were  not  members  you  insisted  on  a 
vow  that  they  would  never  join  it. 

Your  insolence  and  ignorance  of  the  rights  conceded  to  workers 
universally  in  the  modern  world  were  incredible,  and  as  great  as 
your  inhumanity.  If  you  had  between  you  collectively  a  portion  of 
human  soul  as  large  as  a  threepenny  bit,  you  would  have  sat 
night  and  day  with  the  representatives  of  labour,  trying  this  or  that 
solution  of  the  trouble,  mindful  of  the  women  and  children,  who  at 
least  were  innocent  of  wrong  against  you.  But  no!  You  reminded 
labour  you  could  always  have  your  three  square  meals  a  day  while 
it  went  hungry.  You  went  into  conference  again  with  the  represent- 
atives of  the  State,  because,  dull  as  you  are,  you  know  public  opin- 
ion would  not  stand  your  holding  out.  You  chose  as  your  spokes- 
man the  bitterest  tongue  that  ever  wagged  in  this  island,  and  then, 
when  an  award  was  made  by  men  who  have  an  experience  in  in- 
dustrial matters  a  thousand  times  transcending  yours,  who  have  set- 
tled disputes  in  industries  so  great  that  the  sum  of  your  petty  en- 
terprises would  not  equal  them,  you  withdraw  again,  and  will  not 
agree  to  accept  their  solution,  and  fall  back  again  on  your  devilish 
policy  of  starvation.  Cry  aloud  to  Heaven  for  new  souls!  The  souls 
you  have  got  cast  upon  the  screen  of  publicity  appear  like  the  hor- 


230  ae 

rid  and  writhing  creatures  enlarged  from  the  insect  world,  and  re- 
vealed to  us  by  the  cinematograph. 

You  may  succeed  in  your  policy  and  ensure  your  own  damnation 
by  your  victory.  The  men  whose  manhood  you  have  broken  will 
loathe  you,  and  will  always  be  brooding  and  scheming  to  strike  a 
fresh  blow.  The  children  will  be  taught  to  curse  you.  The  infant 
being  moulded  in  the  womb  will  have  breathed  into  its  starved 
body  the  vitality  of  hate.  It  is  not  they — it  is  you  who  are  blind 
Samsons  pulling  down  the  pillars  of  the  social  order.  You  are 
sounding  the  death-knell  of  autocracy  in  industry.  There  was 
autocracy  in  political  life,  and  it  was  superseded  by  democracy.  So 
surely  will  democratic  power  wrest  from  you  the  control  of  in- 
dustry. The  fate  of  you,  the  aristocracy  of  industry,  will  be  as 
the  fate  of  the  aristocracy  of  land  if  you  do  not  show  that  you 
have  some  humanity  still  among  you.  Humanity  abhors,  above  all 
things,  a  vacuum  in  itself,  and  your  class  will  be  cut  off  from  hu- 
manity as  the  surgeon  cuts  the  cancer  and  alien  growth  from  the 
body.  Be  warned  ere  it  is  too  late. 


A  Plea  for  the  Workers1 

I  stand  for  the  first  time  on  a  public  platform  in  this  country. 
The  great  generosity  of  English  to  Irish  workers  has  obliterated  the 
memory  of  many  an  ancient  tale  of  wrong.  I  come  from  Dublin, 
where  most  extraordinary  things  have  been  happening.  Humanity 
long  dumb  there  has  found  a  voice,  it  has  its  prophet  and  its  mar- 
tyrs. We  no  longer  know  people  by  the  old  signs  and  the  old 
shams.  People  are  to  us  either  human  or  sub-human.  They  are 
either  on  the  side  of  those  who  are  fighting  for  human  conditions 
in  labour  or  they  are  with  those  who  are  trying  to  degrade  it  and 
thrust  it  into  the  abyss. 

Ah!  but  I  forgot;  there  has  sprung  up  a  third  party,  who  are 
super-human  beings,  they  have  so  little  concern  for  the  body  at 
all,  that  they  assert  it  is  better  for  children  to  be  starved  than  to 
be  moved  from  the  Christian  atmosphere  of  the  Dublin  slums.2 

XA  speech  delivered  at  the  Royal  Albert  Hall,  London,  November  1,  1913. 

2  When  English  and  Scottish  sympathizers  offered  temporary  homes  to  the  children  of  the 
strikers,  the  'super-human  beings,'  mostly  pietistic  women,  objected  on  the  grounds  that 
the  children  would  lose  their  religion  by  staying  in  non-Catholic  homes.  An  angry  mob  actually 
prevented  a  party  of  several  hundred  children  from  boarding  a  ship  at  the  North  Wall  and 
the  two  women  in  charge  of  the  children  were  actually  arrested  for  attempted  kidnapping. 


THE   DUBLIN    STRIKE  231 

Dublin  is  the  most  Christian  city  in  these  islands.  Its  tottering  tene- 
ments are  holy.  The  spiritual  atmosphere  which  pervades  them  is 
ample  compensation  for  the  diseases  which  are  there  and  the  food 
which  is  not  there.  If  any  poor  parents  think  otherwise,  and  would 
send  their  children  for  a  little  from  that  earthly  paradise,  they 
will  find  the  docks  and  railway  stations  barred  by  these  super- 
human beings  and  by  the  police,  and  they  are  pitched  head-long 
out  of  the  station,  set  upon  and  beaten,  and  their  children  snatched 
from  them.  A  Dublin  labourer  has  no  rights  in  his  own  children. 
You  see  if  these  children  were  even  for  a  little  out  of  the  slums, 
they  would  get  discontented  with  their  poor  homes,  so  a  very  holy 
man  has  said.  Once  getting  full  meals,  they  might  be  so  inconsider- 
ate as  to  ask  for  them  all  their  lives.  They  might  destroy  the  inter- 
esting experiments  carried  on  in  Dublin  for  generations  to  find  out 
how  closely  human  beings  can  be  packed  together,  on  how  little 
a  human  being  can  live,  and  what  is  the  minimum  wage  his  em- 
ployer need  pay  him.  James  Larkin  interrupted  these  interesting 
experiments  towards  the  evolution  of  the  underman  and  he  is  in 
gaol.  You  have  no  idea  what  the  slums  in  Dublin  are  like.  There 
are  more  than  20,000  families,  each  living  in  one  room.  Many  of 
these  dens  are  so  horrible,  so  unsanitary,  so  overrun  with  vermin, 
that  doctors  tell  me  that  the  only  condition  on  which  a  man  can 
purchase  sleep  is  that  he  is  drugged  with  drink.  The  Psalmist  says 
the  Lord  gives  sleep  to  his  beloved,  but  in  these  Dublin  dens  men 
and  women  must  pay  the  devil  his  price  for  a  little  of  that  peace  of 
God.  It  maddens  one  to  think  that  man  the  immortal,  man  the 
divine,  should  exist  in  such  degradation,  that  his  heirship  of  the 
ages  should  be  the  life  of  a  brute. 

I  beseech  you  not  to  forsake  these  men  who  are  out  on  strike. 
They  may  have  been  to  blame  for  many  an  action.  The  masters 
may  perhaps  justifiably  complain  of  things  done  and  undone.  But 
if  the  masters  have  rights  by  the  light  of  reason  and  for  the  mo- 
ment, the  men  are  right  by  the  light  of  spirit  and  for  eternity.  This 
labour  uprising  in  Ireland  is  the  despairing  effort  of  humanity  to 
raise  itself  out  of  a  dismal  swamp  of  disease  and  poverty.  James 
Larkin  may  have  been  an  indiscreet  leader.  He  may  have  com- 
mitted blunders,  but  I  believe  in  the  sight  of  heaven  the  crimes 
are  all  on  the  other  side.  If  our  Courts  of  Justice  were  courts  of 
humanity,  the  masters  of  Dublin  would  be  in  the  dock  charged 
with  criminal  conspiracy,  their  crime  that  they  tried  to  starve  out 


232  ae 

one-third  of  the  people  in  Dublin,  to  break  their  hearts,  and  degrade 
their  manhood,  for  the  greatest  crime  against  humanity  is  its  own 
degradation. 

The  men  have  always  been  willing  to  submit  their  case  to  arbi- 
tration, but  the  masters  refuse  to  meet  them.  They  refuse  to  con- 
sult with  your  trades  union  leaders.  They  would  not  abide  by  the 
Askwith  report.  They  refused  to  hear  of  prominent  Irishmen  act- 
ing as  arbitrators.  They  said  scornfully  of  the  Peace  Committee 
that  it  was  only  interfering.  They  say  they  are  not  fighting  trades 
unionism,  but  they  refuse  point  blank  to  meet  the  Trades  Council 
in  Dublin.  They  want  their  own  way  absolutely.  These  Shylocks 
of  industry  want  their  pound  of  flesh  starved  from  off  the  bones  of 
the  workers.  They  think  their  employees  have  no  rights  as  human 
beings,  no  spirit  whose  dignity  can  be  abased. 

You  have  no  idea  what  labour  in  Ireland,  which  fights  for  the 
bare  means  of  human  support,  is  up  against.  The  autocrats  of  in- 
dustry can  let  loose  upon  them  the  wild  beasts  that  kill  in  the  name 
of  the  State.  They  can  let  loose  upon  them  a  horde  of  wild  fanatics 
who  will  rend  them  in  the  name  of  God.  The  men  have  been  de- 
serted by  those  who  were  their  natural  leaders.  For  ten  weeks  the 
miserable  creatures  who  misrepresent  them  in  Parliament  kept 
silent.  When  they  were  up  for  the  first  time  in  their  lives  against 
anything  real  they  scurried  back  like  rats  to  their  hole.  These 
cacklers  about  self-government  had  no  word  to  say  on  the  politics 
of  their  own  city,  but  after  ten  weeks  of  silence  they  came  out  with 
six  lines  of  a  letter  signed  by  all  the  six  poltroons.  They  disclaimed 
all  responsibility  for  what  is  happening  in  the  city  and  county  they 
represent.  It  was  no  concern  of  theirs;  but  they  would  agree  to 
anything  the  Archbishop  might  say!  Are  they  not  heroic  prodigies! 
Dublin  is  looking  on  these  men  with  alien  eyes.  It  was  thought 
they  were  democrats;  we  have  found  out  they  were  only  demo- 
cratic blatherers. 

We  are  entering  from  to-day  on  a  long  battle  in  Ireland.  The 
masters  have  flung  down  a  challenge  to  the  workers.  The  Irish 
aristocracy  were  equally  scornful  of  the  workers  in  the  land,  and 
the  landlords  of  land  are  going  or  have  gone.  The  landlords  of  in- 
dustry will  have  disappeared  from  Ireland  when  the  battle  begun 
this  year  is  ended.  Democratic  control  of  industry  will  replace  the 
autocracy  which  exists  to-day.  We  are  working  for  the  co- 
operative commonwealth  to  make  it  the  Irish  policy  of  the  future, 


THE   DUBLIN   STRIKE  233 

and  I  ask  you  to  stand  by  the  men  who  are  beginning  the  struggle. 
There  is  good  human  material  there. 

I  have  often  despaired  over  Dublin,  which  John  Mitchel  called  a 
city  of  genteel  dastards  and  bellowing  slaves,  but  a  man1  has  arisen 
who  has  lifted  the  curtain  which  veiled  from  us  the  real  manhood 
in  the  city  of  Dublin.  Nearly  all  the  manhood  is  found  among  ob- 
scure myriads  who  are  paid  from  five  to  twenty-five  shillings  per 
week.  The  men  who  will  sacrifice  anything  for  a  principle  get  rarer 
and  rarer  above  that  limit  of  wealth.  I  am  a  literary  man,  a  lover 
of  ideas,  but  I  have  found  few  people  in  my  life  who  would  sacri- 
fice anything  for  a  principle.  Yet  in  Dublin,  when  the  masters  issued 
that  humiliating  document,  asking  men — on  penalty  of  dismissal — 
to  swear  never  to  join  a  trades  union,  thousands  of  men  who  had 
no  connection  with  the  Irish  Transport  Workers — many  among 
them  personally  hostile  to  that  organisation — refused  to  obey.  They 
would  not  sign  away  their  freedom,  their  right  to  choose  their  own 
heroes  and  their  own  ideas.  Most  of  these  men  had  no  strike  funds 
to  fall  back  on.  They  had  wives  and  children  depending  on  them. 
Quietly  and  grimly  they  took  through  hunger  the  path  to  the 
Heavenly  City.  They  stand  silently  about  the  streets.  God  alone 
knows  what  is  passing  in  the  heart  of  these  men.  Nobody  in  the 
Press  in  Dublin  has  said  a  word  about  it.  Nobody  has  praised  them, 
no  one  has  put  a  crown  upon  their  brows.  Yet  these  men  are  the 
true  heroes  of  Ireland  to-day,  they  are  the  descendants  of  Oscar, 
Cuchulain,  the  heroes  of  our  ancient  stories.  For  all  their  tattered 
garments,  I  recognise  in  these  obscure  men  a  majesty  of  spirit.  It 
is  in  these  workers  in  the  towns  and  in  the  men  in  the  cabins  in  the 
country  that  the  hope  of  Ireland  lies.  The  poor  have  always 
helped  each  other,  and  it  is  they  who  listen  eagerly  to  the  preach- 
ers of  a  social  order  based  on  brotherhood  and  co-operation. 

I  am  a  literary  man  and  not  a  manual  worker.  I  am  but  a  voice, 
while  they  are  the  deed  and  the  being,  but  I  would  be  ashamed 
ever  in  my  life  again  to  speak  of  an  ideal  if  I  did  not  stand  by  these 
men  and  say  of  them  what  I  hold  to  be  true.  If  you  back  them  up 
to-day  they  will  be  able  to  fight  their  own  battles  to-morrow,  and 
perhaps  to  give  you  an  example.  I  beseech  you  not  to  forsake 
these  men. 


1  James   Larkin. 


PADRAIC     PEARSE 

The  Coming  Revolution1 

November  1913 

1  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  Gaelic  League,  as  the 
Gaelic  League,  is  a  spent  force;  and  I  am  glad  of  it.  I  do  not  mean 
that  no  work  remains  for  the  Gaelic  League,  or  that  the  Gaelic 
League  is  no  longer  equal  to  work;  I  mean  that  the  vital  work  to 
be  done  in  the  new  Ireland  will  be  done  not  so  much  by  the  Gaelic 
League  itself  as  by  men  and  movements  that  have  sprung  from  the 
Gaelic  League  or  have  received  from  the  Gaelic  League  a  new 
baptism  and  a  new  life  of  grace.  The  Gaelic  League  was  no  reed 
shaken  by  the  wind,  no  mere  vox  clamantis:  it  was  a  prophet  and 
more  than  a  prophet.  But  it  was  not  the  Messiah.  I  do  not  know  if 
the  Messiah  has  yet  come,  and  I  am  not  sure  that  there  will  be  any 
visible  and  personal  Messiah  in  this  redemption:  the  people  itself 
will  perhaps  be  its  own  Messiah,  the  people  labouring,  scourged, 
crowned  with  thorns,  agonising  and  dying,  to  rise  again  immortal 
and  impassible.  For  peoples  are  divine  and  are  the  only  things  that 
can  properly  be  spoken  of  under  figures  drawn  from  the  divine 
epos. 

If  we  do  not  believe  in  the  divinity  of  our  people  we  have  had 
no  business,  or  very  little,  all  these  years  in  the  Gaelic  League. 
In  fact,  if  we  had  not  believed  in  the  divinity  of  our  people,  we 
should  in  all  probability  not  have  gone  into  the  Gaelic  League  at 
all.  We  should  have  made  our  peace  with  the  devil,  and  perhaps 
might  have  found  him  a  very  decent  sort;  for  he  liberally  rewards 
with  attorney-generalships,  bank  balances,  villa  residences,  and  so 
forth,  the  great  and  the  little  who  serve  him  well.  Now,  we  did 
not  turn  our  backs  upon  all  these  desirable  things  for  the  sake  of 
is  and  td.2  We  did  it  for  the  sake  of  Ireland.  In  other  words,  we  had 
one  and  all  of  us  (at  least,  I  had,  and  I  hope  that  all  you  had)  an 
ulterior  motive  in  joining  the  Gaelic  League.  We  never  meant  to  be 
Gaelic  Leaguers  and  nothing  more  than  Gaelic  Leaguers.  We 
meant  to  do  something  for  Ireland,  each  in  his  own  way.   Our 


1  From  Collected   Works  of  Padraic  H.  Pearse:  Political   Writings  and  Speeches,  Dublin  & 
London,  1922. 

2  Is  and  td  are  the  two  forms  of  the  verb  to  be  in  Gaelic  and  constitute  a  stumbling  block 
for   the  beginner. 

234 


THE   COMING   REVOLUTION  235 

Gaelic  League  time  was  to  be  our  tutelage:  we  had  first  to  learn  to 
know  Ireland,  to  read  the  lineaments  of  her  face,  to  understand  the 
accents  of  her  voice;  to  re-possess  ourselves,  disinherited  as  we 
were,  of  her  spirit  and  mind,  re-enter  into  our  mystical  birthright. 
For  this  we  went  to  school  to  the  Gaelic  League.  It  was  a  good 
school,  and  we  love  its  name  and  will  champion  its  fame  through- 
out all  the  days  of  our  later  fighting  and  striving.  But  we  do  not 
propose  to  remain  schoolboys  for  ever. 

I  have  often  said  (quoting,  I  think,  Herbert  Spencer)  that  educa- 
tion should  be  a  preparation  for  complete  living;  and  I  say  now 
that  our  Gaelic  League  education  ought  to  have  been  a  prepara- 
tion for  our  complete  living  as  Irish  Nationalists.  In  proportion  as 
we  have  been  faithful  and  diligent  Gaelic  Leaguers,  our  work  as 
Irish  Nationalists  (by  which  term  I  mean  people  who  accept  the 
ideal  of,  and  work  for,  the  realisation  of  an  Irish  Nation,  by  what- 
ever means)  will  be  earnest  and  thorough,  a  valiant  and  worthy 
fighting,  not  the  mere  carrying  out  of  a  ritual.  As  to  what  your 
work  as  an  Irish  Nationalist  is  to  be,  I  cannot  conjecture;  I  know 
what  mine  is  to  be,  and  would  have  you  know  yours  and  buckle 
yourself  to  it.  And  it  may  be  (nay,  it  is)  that  yours  and  mine  will 
lead  us  to  a  common  meeting-place,  and  that  on  a  certain  day  we 
shall  stand  together,  with  many  more  beside  us,  ready  for  a  greater 
adventure  than  any  of  us  has  yet  had,  a  trial  and  a  triumph  to  be 
endured  and  achieved  in  common. 

This  is  what  I  meant  when  I  said  that  our  work  henceforward 
must  be  done  less  and  less  through  the  Gaelic  League  and  more  and 
more  through  the  groups  and  the  individuals  that  have  arisen,  or 
are  arising,  out  of  the  Gaelic  League.  There  will  be  in  the  Ireland 
of  the  next  few  years  a  multitudinous  activity  of  Freedom  Clubs, 
Young  Republican  Parties,  Labour  Organisations,  Socialist  Groups, 
and  what  not;  bewildering  enterprises  undertaken  by  sane  persons 
and  insane  persons,  by  good  men  and  bad  men,  many  of  them 
seemingly  contradictory,  some  mutually  destructive,  yet  all  tending 
towards  a  common  objective,  and  that  objective:  the  Irish  Revolu- 
tion. 

For  if  there  is  one  thing  that  has  become  plainer  than  another  it 
is  that  when  the  seven  men  met  in  O'Connell  Street  to  found  the 
Gaelic  League,  they  were  commencing,  had  there  been  a  Lian- 
court  there  to  make  the  epigram,  not  a  revolt,  but  a  revolution. 
The  work  of  the  Gaelic  League,  its  appointed  work,  was  that;  and 


236  PADRAIC   PEARSE 

the  work  is  done.  To  every  generation  its  deed.  The  deed  of  the 
generation  that  has  now  reached  middle  life  was  the  Gaelic 
League,  the  beginning  of  the  Irish  Revolution.  Let  our  generation 
not  shirk  its  deed,  which  is  to  accomplish  the  revolution. 

I  believe  that  the  national  movement  of  which  the  Gaelic 
League  has  been  the  soul  has  reached  the  point  which  O'Connell's 
movement  had  reached  at  the  close  of  the  series  of  monster  meet- 
ings. Indeed,  I  believe  that  our  movement  reached  that  point  a 
few  years  ago — say,  at  the  conclusion  of  the  fight  for  Essential 
Irish;  and  I  said  so  at  the  time.  The  moment  was  ripe  then  for 
a  new  Young  Ireland  Party,  with  a  forward  policy;  and  we  have  lost 
much  by  our  hesitation.  I  propose  in  all  seriousness  that  we  hesi- 
tate no  longer — that  we  push  on.  I  propose  that  we  leave  Concilia- 
tion Hall  behind  us  and  go  into  the  Irish  Confederation. 

Whenever  Dr.  Hyde,  at  a  meeting  at  which  I  have  had  a  chance 
of  speaking  after  him,  has  produced  his  dove  of  peace,  I  have  al- 
ways been  careful  to  produce  my  sword;  and  to  tantalise  him  by 
saying  that  the  Gaelic  League  has  brought  into  Ireland  'Not  Peace, 
but  a  Sword.'  But  this  does  not  show  any  fundamental  difference 
of  outlook  between  my  leader  and  me;  for  while  he  is  thinking  of 
peace  between  brother-Irishmen,  I  am  thinking  of  the  sword-point 
between  banded  Irishmen  and  the  foreign  force  that  occupies  Ire- 
land, and  his  peace  is  necessary  to  my  war.  It  is  evident  that  there 
can  be  no  peace  between  the  body  politic  and  a  foreign  substance 
that  has  intruded  itself  into  its  system;  between  them  war  only 
until  the  foreign  substance  is  expelled  or  assimilated. 

Whether  Home  Rule  means  a  loosening  or  a  tightening  of  Eng- 
land's grip  upon  Ireland  remains  yet  to  be  seen.  But  the  coming  of 
Home  Rule,  if  come  it  does,  will  make  no  material  difference  in 
the  nature  of  the  work  that  lies  before  us;  it  will  affect  only  the 
means  we  are  to  employ,  our  plan  of  campaign.  There  remains, 
under  Home  Rule  as  in  its  absence,  the  substantial  task  of  achiev- 
ing the  Irish  Nation.  I  do  not  think  it  is  going  to  be  achieved  with- 
out stress  and  trial,  without  suffering  and  bloodshed;  at  any  rate,  it  is 
not  going  to  be  achieved  without  work.  Our  business  here  and 
now  is  to  get  ourselves  into  harness  for  such  work  as  has  to  be 
done. 

I  hold  that  before  we  can  do  any  work,  any  mens  work,  we  must 
first  realise  ourselves  as  men.  Whatever  comes  to  Ireland  she  needs 


THE   COMING   REVOLUTION  237 

men.  And  we  of  this  generation  are  not  in  any  real  sense  men, 
for  we  suffer  things  that  men  do  not  suffer,  and  we  seek  to  redress 
grievances  by  means  which  men  do  not  employ.  We  have,  for  in- 
stance, allowed  ourselves  to  be  disarmed;  and,  now  that  we  have 
the  chance  of  re-arming,  we  are  not  seizing  it.  Professor  Eoin  Mac 
Neill  pointed  out  last  week  that  we  have  at  this  moment  an  op- 
portunity of  rectifying  the  capital  error  we  made  when  we  al- 
lowed ourselves  to  be  disarmed;  and  such  opportunities,  he  reminds 
us,  do  not  always  come  back  to  nations. 

A  thing  that  stands  demonstrable  is  that  nationhood  is  not 
achieved  otherwise  than  in  arms:  in  one  or  two  instances  there 
may  have  been  no  actual  bloodshed,  but  the  arms  were  there 
and  the  ability  to  use  them.  Ireland  unarmed  will  attain  just  as 
much  freedom  as  it  is  convenient  for  England  to  give  her;  Ireland 
armed  will  attain  ultimately  just  as  much  freedom  as  she  wants. 
These  are  matters  which  may  not  concern  the  Gaelic  League,  as 
a  body;  but  they  concern  every  member  of  the  Gaelic  League,  and 
every  man  and  woman  of  Ireland.  I  urged  much  of  this  five  or  six 
years  ago  in  addresses  to  the  Ard-Chraobh : x  but  the  League  was 
too  busy  with  resolutions  to  think  of  revolution,  and  the  only  reso- 
lution that  a  member  of  the  League  could  not  come  to  was  the 
resolution  to  be  a  man.  My  fellow-Leaguers  had  not  (and  have 
not)  apprehended  that  the  thing  which  cannot  defend  itself,  even 
though  it  may  wear  trousers,  is  no  man. 

I  am  glad,  then,  that  the  North  has  'begun.'  I  am  glad  that  the 
Orangemen  have  armed,  for  it  is  a  goodly  thing  to  see  arms  in  Irish 
hands.  I  should  like  to  see  the  A.  O.  H.2  armed.  I  should  like  to  see 
the  Transport  Workers  armed.  I  should  like  to  see  any  and  every 
body  of  Irish  citizens  armed.  We  must  accustom  ourselves  to  the 
thought  of  arms,  to  the  sight  of  arms,  to  the  use  of  arms.  We  may 
make  mistakes  in  the  beginning  and  shoot  the  wrong  people;  but 
bloodshed  is  a  cleansing  and  a  sanctifying  thing,  and  the  nation 
which  regards  it  as  the  final  horror  has  lost  its  manhood.  There 
are  many  things  more  horrible  than  bloodshed;  and  slavery  is  one 
of  them. 


1  The  governing  body  of  the  Gaelic  League. 

2  Ancient  Order  of  Hibernians. 


At  the  Grave  of  O 'Donovan  Rossa1 

It  has  seemed  right,  before  we  turn  away  from  this  place  in 
which  we  have  laid  the  mortal  remains  of  O'Donovan  Rossa,  that 
one  among  us  should,  in  the  name  of  all,  speak  the  praise  of  that 
valiant  man,  and  endeavour  to  formulate  the  thought  and  the  hope 
that  are  in  us  as  we  stand  around  his  grave.  And  if  there  is  any- 
thing that  makes  it  fitting  that  I,  rather  than  some  other,  I  rather 
than  one  of  the  grey-haired  men  who  were  young  with  him  and 
shared  in  his  labour  and  in  his  suffering,  should  speak  here,  it  is 
perhaps  that  I  may  be  taken  as  speaking  on  behalf  of  a  new  gen- 
eration that  has  been  re-baptised  in  the  Fenian  faith,  and  that  has 
accepted  the  responsibility  of  carrying  out  the  Fenian  programme. 
I  propose  to  you  then  that,  here  by  the  grave  of  this  unrepentant 
Fenian,2  we  renew  our  baptismal  vows;  that,  here  by  the  grave  of 
this  unconquered  and  unconquerable  man,  we  ask  of  God,  each  one 
for  himself,  such  unshakable  purpose,  such  high  and  gallant  cour- 
age, such  unbreakable  strength  of  soul  as  belonged  to  O'Donovan 
Rossa. 

Deliberately  here  we  avow  ourselves,  as  he  avowed  himself  in 
the  dock,  Irishmen  of  one  allegiance  only.  We  of  the  Irish  Volun- 
teers, and  you  others  who  are  associated  with  us  in  today's  task 
and  duty,  are(  bound  together  and  must  stand  together  henceforth 
in  brotherly  union  for  the  achievement  of  the  freedom  of  Ireland. 
And  we  know  only  one  definition  of  freedom:  it  is  Tone's  defini- 
tion, it  is  Mitchel's  definition,  it  is  Rossa's  definition.  Let  no  man 
blaspheme  the  cause  that  the  dead  generations  of  Ireland  served  by 
giving  it  any  other  name  and  definition  than  their  name  and  their 
definition. 

We  stand  at  Rossa's  grave  not  in  sadness  but  rather  in  exaltation 
of  spirit  that  it  has  been  given  to  us  to  come  thus  into  so  close  a 
communion  with  that  brave  and  splendid  Gael.  Splendid  and  holy 
causes  are  served  by  men  who  are  themselves  splendid  and  holy. 
O'Donovan  Rossa  was  splendid  in  the  proud  manhood  of  him, 
splendid  in  the  heroic  grace  of  him,  splendid  in  the  Gaelic  strength 
and  clarity  and  truth  of  him.  And  all  that  splendour  and  pride 


1  From   Collected   Works  of  Padraic  H.   Pearse:   Political   Writings  and  Speeches,   Dublin  & 
London,    1922.    The   speech   was   delivered   at   Glasnevin    Cemetery,    Dublin,    August    1,    1915. 

2  The  Fenians  were  members  of  the  Irish  Republican  Brotherhood,  a  secret  revolutionary 
organization  which  attempted  an  uprising  in   1867. 

238 


AT   THE   GRAVE   OF   o'DONOVAN   ROSSA  239 

and  strength  was  compatible  with  a  humility  and  a  simplicity  of 
devotion  to  Ireland,  to  all  that  was  olden  and  beautiful  and  Gaelic 
in  Ireland,  the  holiness  and  simplicity  of  patriotism  of  a  Michael 
O'Clery1  or  of  an  Eoghan  O'Growney.2  The  clear  true  eyes  of  this 
man  almost  alone  in  his  day  visioned  Ireland  as  we  of  today  would 
surely  have  her:  not  free  merely,  but  Gaelic  as  well;  not  Gaelic 
merely,  but  free  as  well. 

In  a  closer  spiritual  communion  with  him  now  than  ever  before  or 
perhaps  ever  again,  in  a  spiritual  communion  with  those  of  his  day, 
living  and  dead,  who  suffered  with  him  in  English  prisons,  in  com- 
munion of  spirit  too  with  our  own  dear  comrades  who  suffer  in 
English  prisons  today,  and  speaking  on  their  behalf  as  well  as  our 
own,  we  pledge  to  Ireland  our  love,  and  we  pledge  to  English  rule 
in  Ireland  our  hate.  This  is  a  place  of  peace,  sacred  to  the  dead, 
where  men  should  speak  with  all  charity  and  with  all  restraint;  but 
I  hold  it  a  Christian  thing,  as  O'Donovan  Rossa  held  it,  to  hate  evil, 
to  hate  untruth,  to  hate  oppression,  and,  hating  them,  to  strive  to 
overthrow  them.  Our  foes  are  strong  and  wise  and  wary;  but, 
strong  and  wise  and  wary  as  they  are,  they  cannot  undo  the  mira- 
cles of  God  who  ripens  in  the  hearts  of  young  men  the  seeds 
sown  by  the  young  men  of  a  former  generation.  And  the  seeds 
sown  by  the  young  men  of  '65  and  '67  are  coming  to  their  mirac- 
ulous ripening  today.  Rulers  and  Defenders  of  Realms  had  need 
to  be  wary  if  they  would  guard  against  such  processes.  Life  springs 
from  death;  and  from  the  graves  of  patriot  men  and  women  spring 
living  nations.  The  Defenders  of  this  Realm  have  worked  well  in 
secret  and  in  the  open.  They  think  that  they  have  pacified  Ireland. 
They  think  that  they  have  purchased  half  of  us  and  intimidated 
the  other  half.  They  think  that  they  have  foreseen  everything, 
think  that  they  have  provided  against  everything;  but  the  fools 
the  fools,  the  fools! — they  have  left  us  our  Fenian  dead,  and  while 
Ireland  holds  these  graves,  Ireland  unfree  shall  never  be  at  peace. 

1  Brother  Michael  O'Clery,  1575-1643,  a  Franciscan,  chief  author  of  The  Annals  of  The 
Four  Masters,  a  famous  Gaelic  historical  compilation. 

2  Rev.  Eugene  O'Growney,  1863-1899,  Professor  of  Irish  at  Maynooth  1891-1894. 


JAMES     CONNOLLY 

What  Is  Our  Programme?1 


We  are  often  asked  the  above  question.  Sometimes  the  question  is 
not  too  politely  put,  sometimes  it  is  put  in  frantic  bewilderment, 
sometimes  it  is  put  in  wrathful  objurgation,  sometimes  it  is  put  in 
tearful  entreaty,  sometimes  it  is  put  by  Nationalists  who  affect  to 
despise  the  Labour  Movement,  sometimes  it  is  put  by  Socialists 
who  distrust  the  Nationalists  because  of  the  anti-Labour  record  of 
many  of  their  friends,  sometimes  it  is  put  by  our  enemies,  some- 
times by  our  friends,  and  always  it  is  pertinent,  and  worthy  of  an 
answer. 

The  Labour  Movement  is  like  no  other  movement.  Its  strength 
lies  in  being  like  no  other  movement.  It  is  never  so  strong  as  when 
it  stands  alone.  Other  movements  dread  analysis  and  shun  all  at- 
tempts to  define  their  objects.  The  Labour  Movement  delights  in 
analysing,  and  is  perpetually  defining  and  re-defining  its  principles 
and  objects. 

The  man  or  woman  who  has  caught  the  spirit  of  the  Labour 
Movement  brings  that  spirit  of  analysis  and  definition  into  all  his  or 
her  public  acts,  and  expects  at  all  times  to  answer  the  call  to  de- 
fine their  position.  They  cannot  live  on  illusions,  nor  thrive  by 
them;  even  should  their  heads  be  in  the  clouds  they  will  make  no 
forward  step  until  they  are  assured  that  their  feet  rest  upon  the 
solid  earth. 

In  this  they  are  essentially  different  from  the  middle  or  pro- 
fessional classes,  and  the  parties  or  movements  controlled  by  such 
classes  in  Ireland.  These  always  talk  of  realities,  but  nourish  them- 
selves and  their  followers  upon  the  unsubstantial  meat  of  phrases; 
always  prate  about  being  intensely  practical  but  nevertheless  spend 
their  whole  lives  in  following  visions. 

When  the  average  non-Labour  patriot  in  Ireland  who  boasts  of 
his  practicality  is  brought  in  contact  with  the  cold  world  and  its 
problems  he  shrinks  from  the  contact,  should  his  feet  touch  the 
solid  earth  he  affects  to  despise  it  as  a  'mere  material  basis,'  and 
strives  to  make  the  people  believe  that  true  patriotism  needs  no 

1  From    The   Workers'   Republic,  Vol.   I,  No.   35,  Dublin,  January  22,    1916. 

240 


WHAT   IS   OUR   PROGRAMME?  241 

foundation  to  rest  upon  other  than  the  brainstorms  of  its  poets, 
orators,  journalists,  and  leaders. 

Ask  such  people  for  a  programme  and  you  are  branded  as  a 
carping  critic;  refuse  to  accept  their  judgment  as  the  last  word 
in  human  wisdom  and  you  become  an  enemy  to  be  carefully 
watched;  insist  that  in  the  crisis  of  your  country's  history  your  first 
allegiance  is  to  your  country  and  not  to  any  leader,  executive,  or 
committee,  and  you  are  forthwith  a  disturber,  a  factionist,  a 
wrecker. 

What  is  our  programme!  We  at  least,  in  conformity  with  the 
spirit  of  our  movement,  will  try  and  tell  it. 

Our  programme  in  time  of  peace  was  to  gather  into  Irish  hands 
in  Irish  trade  unions  the  control  of  all  the  forces  of  production  and 
distribution  in  Ireland.  We  never  believed  that  freedom  would  be 
realised  without  fighting  for  it.  From  our  earliest  declaration  of 
policy  in  Dublin  in  1896  the  editor  of  this  paper  has  held  to  the 
dictum  that  our  ends  should  be  secured  'peacefully  if  possible,  forci- 
bly if  necessary.'  Believing  so  we  saw  what  the  world  outside  Ire- 
land is  realising  to-day,  that  the  destinies  of  the  world  and  the  fight- 
ing strength  of  armies  are  at  the  mercy  of  organised  Labour  as 
soon  as  that  Labour  becomes  truly  revolutionary.  Thus  we  strove  to 
make  Labour  in  Ireland  organised — and  revolutionary. 

We  saw  that  should  it  come  to  a  test  in  Ireland  (as  we  hoped 
and  prayed  it  might  come),  between  those  who  stood  for  the  Irish 
nation  and  those  who  stood  for  the  foreign  rule,  the  greatest  civil 
asset  in  the  hand  of  the  Irish  nation  for  use  in  the  struggle  would 
be  the  control  of  Irish  docks,  shipping,  railways  and  production 
by  Unions  who  gave  sole  allegiance  to  Ireland. 

We  realised  that  the  power  of  the  enemy  to  hurl  his  forces  upon 
the  forces  of  Ireland  would  lie  at  the  mercy  of  the  men  who  con- 
trolled the  transport  system  of  Ireland;  we  saw  that  the  hopes  of 
Ireland  a  Nation  rested  upon  the  due  recognition  of  the  identity 
of  interest  between  that  ideal  and  the  rising  hopes  of  Labour. 

In  Europe  to-day  we  have  seen  the  strongest  governments  of 
the  world  exerting  every  effort,  holding  out  all  possible  sort  of  in- 
ducement to  Organised  Labour  to  use  its  organisation  on  the  side 
of  those  governments  in  time  of  war.  We  have  spent  the  best 
part  of  our  lifetime  striving  to  create  in  Ireland  the  working  class 
spirit  that  would  create  an  Irish  organisation  of  Labour  willing  to 


242  JAMES   CONNOLLY 

do  voluntarily  for  Ireland  what  those  governments  of  Europe  are 
beseeching  their  trade  unions  to  do  for  their  countries.  And  we 
have  partly  succeeded. 

We  have  succeeded  in  creating  an  organisation  that  will  will- 
ingly do  more  for  Ireland  than  any  trade  union  in  the  world  has  at- 
tempted to  do  for  its  national  government.  Had  we  not  been  at- 
tacked and  betrayed  by  many  of  our  fervent  advanced  patriots,  had 
they  not  been  so  anxious  to  destroy  us,  so  willing  to  applaud  even 
the  British  Government  when  it  attacked  us,  had  they  stood  by  us 
and  pushed  our  organisation  all  over  Ireland  it  would  now  be  in  our 
power  at  a  word  to  crumple  up  and  demoralise  every  offensive 
move  of  the  enemy  against  the  champions  of  Irish  freedom. 

Had  we  been  able  to  carry  out  all  our  plans,  as  such  an  Irish  or- 
ganisation of  Labour  alone  could  carry  them  out,  we  could  at  a 
word  have  created  all  the  conditions  necessary  to  the  striking  of 
a  successful  blow  whenever  the  military  arm  of  Ireland  wished  to 
move. 

Have  we  a  programme?  We  are  the  only  people  that  had  a  pro- 
gramme— that  understood  the  mechanical  conditions  of  modern 
war,  and  the  dependence  of  national  power  upon  industrial  control. 

What  is  our  programme  now?  At  the  grave  risk  of  displeasing 
alike  the  perfervid  Irish  patriot  and  the  British  'competent  military 
authority,'  we  shall  tell  it. 

We  believe  that  in  times  of  peace  we  should  work  along  the  lines 
of  peace  to  strengthen  the  nation,  and  we  believe  that  whatever 
strengthens  and  elevates  the  Working  Class  strengthens  the  nation. 

But  we  also  believe  that  in  times  of  war  we  should  act  as  in  war. 
We  despise,  entirely  despise  and  loathe,  all  the  mouthings  and 
mouthers  about  war  who  infest  Ireland  in  time  of  peace,  just  as  we 
despise  and  loathe  all  the  cantings  about  caution  and  restraint  to 
which  the  same  people  treat  us  in  times  of  war. 

Mark  well  then  our  programme.  While  the  war  lasts  and  Ire- 
land still  is  a  subject  nation  we  shall  continue  to  urge  her  to  fight 
for  her  freedom. 

We  shall  continue,  in  season  and  out  of  season,  to  teach  that  the 
'far-flung  battle  line'  of  England  is  weakest  at  the  point  nearest  its 
heart,  that  Ireland  is  in  that  position  of  tactical  advantage,  that  a 
defeat  of  England  in  India,  Egypt,  the  Balkans  or  Flanders  would 
not  be   so   dangerous   to  the   British   Empire   as   any   conflict   of 


WHAT   IS   OUR   PROGRAMME?  243 

armed  forces  in  Ireland,  that  the  time  for  Ireland's  Battle  is  NOW, 
the  place  for  Ireland's  Battle  is  HERE. 

That  a  strong  man  may  deal  lusty  blows  with  his  fists  against  a 
host  of  surrounding  foes  and  conquer,  but  will  succumb  if  a  child 
sticks  a  pin  in  his  heart. 

But  the  moment  peace  is  once  admitted  by  the  British  Govern- 
ment as  being  a  subject  ripe  for  discussion,  that  moment  our  policy 
will  be  for  peace  and  in  direct  opposition  to  all  talk  or  preparation 
for  armed  revolution. 

We  will  be  no  party  to  leading  out  Irish  patriots  to  meet  the 
might  of  an  England  at  peace.  The  moment  peace  is  in  the  air  we 
shall  strictly  confine  ourselves,  and  lend  all  our  influence  to  the 
work  of  turning  the  thought  of  Labour  in  Ireland  to  the  work  of 
peaceful  reconstruction. 

That  is  our  programme.  You  can  now  compare  it  with  the  pro- 
gramme of  those  who  bid  you  hold  your  hand  now,  and  thus  put  it 
in  the  power  of  the  enemy  to  patch  up  a  temporary  peace,  turn 
round  and  smash  you  at  his  leisure,  and  then  go  to  war  again  with 
the  Irish  question  settled — in  the  graves  of  Irish  patriots. 

We  fear  that  is  what  is  going  to  happen.  It  is  to  our  mind  in- 
conceivable that  the  British  public  should  allow  conscription  to  be 
applied  to  England  and  not  to  Ireland.  Nor  do  the  British  Govern- 
ment desire  it.  But  that  Government  will  use  the  cry  of  the  neces- 
sities of  war  to  force  conscription  upon  the  people  of  England,  and 
will  then  make  a  temporary  peace,  and  turn  round  to  force  Ireland 
to  accept  the  same  terms  as  have  been  forced  upon  England. 

The  English  public  will  gladly  see  this  done — misfortune  likes 
company.  The  situation  will  then  shape  itself  thus:  The  Irish  Vol- 
unteers who  are  pledged  to  fight  conscription  will  either  need  to 
swallow  their  pledge,  and  see  the  young  men  of  Ireland  conscripted, 
or  will  need  to  resent  conscription,  and  engage  the  military  force 
of  England  at  a  time  when  England  is  at  peace. 

This  is  what  the  diplomacy  of  England  is  working  for,  what  the 
stupidity  of  some  of  our  leaders  who  imagine  they  are  Wolfe 
Tones  is  making  possible.  It  is  our  duty,  it  is  the  duty  of  all  who 
wish  to  save  Ireland  from  such  shame  or  such  slaughter  to 
strengthen  the  hand  of  those  of  the  leaders  who  are  for  action  as 
against  those  who  are  playing  into  the  hands  of  the  enemy. 

We  are  neither  rash  nor  cowardly.  We  know  our  opportunity 


244  JAMES   CONNOLLY 

when  we  see  it,  and  we  know  when  it  has  gone.  We  know  that  at 
the  end  of  this  war  England  will  have  at  least  an  army  of  one 
million  men,  or  more  than  two  soldiers  for  every  adult  male  in  Ire- 
land. And  these  soldiers  veterans  of  the  greatest  war  in  history. 

We  shall  not  want  to  fight  those  men.  We  shall  devote  our  at- 
tention to  organising  their  comrades  who  return  to  civil  life,  to  or- 
ganising them  into  trade  unions  and  Labour  parties  to  secure  them 
their  rights  in  civil  life. 

Unless  we  emigrate  to  some  country  where  there  are  men. 


ANONYMOUS 

Proclamation  of  the  Irish  Republic1 

POBLACHT  NA  H  EIREANN. 

THE  PBOYISXOM  GOVIBIMHT 

OF  THE 

IRISH    REPUBLIC 

to  tie  mm  or  mail 

Irishmen  and  irishwomen:  In  the  name  of  God  and  of  the  dead 
generations  from  which  she  receives  her  old  tradition  of  nationhood, 
Ireland,  through  us,  summons  her  children  to  her  flag  and  strikes 
for  her  freedom. 

Having  organised  and  trained  her  manhood  through  her  secret 
revolutionary  organisation,  the  Irish  Republican  Brotherhood,  and 
through  her  open  military  organisations,  the  Irish  Volunteers  and 
the  Irish  Citizen  Army,  having  patiently  perfected  her  discipline, 
having  resolutely  waited  for  the  right  moment  to  reveal  itself,  she 
now  seizes  that  moment,  and>  supported  by  her  exiled  children  in 
America  and  by  gallant  allies  in  Europe,  but  relying  in  the  first  on 
her  own  strength,  she  strikes  in  full  confidence  of  victory. 

We  declare  the  right  of  the  people  of  Ireland  to  the  ownership 
of  Ireland,  and  to  the  unfettered  control  of  Irish  destinies,  to  be 
sovereign  and  indefeasible.  The  long  usurpation  of  that  right  by  a 
foreign  people  and  government  has  not  extinguished  the  right,  nor 
can  it  ever  be  extinguished  except  by  the  destruction  of  the  Irish 
people.  In  every  generation  the  Irish  people  have  asserted  their 
right  to  national  freedom  and  sovereignty;  six  times  during  the  past 
three  hundred  years  they  have  asserted  it  in  arms.  Standing  on  that 
fundamental  right  and  again  asserting  it  in  arms  in  the  face  of  the 
world,  we  hereby  proclaim  the  Irish  Republic  as  a  Sovereign  In- 
dependent State,  and  we  pledge  our  lives  and  the  lives  of  our 
comrades-in-arms  to  the  cause  of  its  freedom,  of  its  welfare,  and  of 
its  exaltation  among  the  nations. 

1  This  is  the  Proclamation  which  was  read  by  Padraic  Pearse  on  the  steps  of  the  General 
Post  Office,  Dublin,  on  April  17,  1916,  announcing  the  Rising  of  Easter  Week. 

245 


246  ANONYMOUS 

The  Irish  Republic  is  entitled  to,  and  hereby  claims,  the  alle- 
giance of  every  Irishman  and  Irishwoman.  The  Republic  guarantees 
religious  and  civil  liberty,  equal  rights  and  equal  opportunities  to 
all  its  citizens,  and  declares  its  resolve  to  pursue  the  happiness  and 
prosperity  of  the  whole  nation  and  of  all  its  parts,  cherishing  all 
the  children  of  the  nation  equally,  and  oblivious  of  the  differences 
carefully  fostered  by  an  alien  government,  which  have  divided  a 
minority  from  the  majority  in  the  past. 

Until  our  arms  have  brought  the  opportune  moment  for  the  es- 
tablishment of  a  permanent  National  Government,  representative 
of  the  whole  people  of  Ireland  and  elected  by  the  suffrages  of  all  her 
men  and  women,  the  Provisional  Government,  hereby  constituted, 
will  administer  the  civil  and  military  affairs  of  the  Republic  in  trust 
for  the  people. 

We  place  the  cause  of  the  Irish  Republic  under  the  protection  of 
the  Most  High  God,  Whose  blessing  we  invoke  upon  our  arms,  and 
we  pray  that  no  one  who  serves  that  cause  will  dishonour  it  by 
cowardice,  inhumanity,  or  rapine.  In  this  supreme  hour  the  Irish 
nation  must,  by  its  valour  and  discipline  and  by  the  readiness  of 
its  children  to  sacrifice  themselves  for  the  common  good,  prove  it- 
self worthy  of  the  august  destiny  to  which  it  is  called. 

Signed  on  Behalf  of  the  Provisional  Government, 
Thomas  J.  Clarke, 
Sean  Mac  Diarmada,        Thomas  Mac  Donagh, 
P.  H.  Pearse,  Eamonn  Ceannt, 

James  Connolly.  Joseph  Plunkett. 


SEAN    O    CASEY 

The  Shadow  of  a  Gunman1 


CHARACTERS   IN   THE    PLAY 
DONAL    DAVOREN 

Seumas  Shields,  a  pedlar 

Tommy  Owens  I    Residents  in 

Adolphus  Grigson  I    the  Tenement 

Mrs.  Grigson 

Minnie  Powell 

Mr.  Mulligan,  the  landlord 

Mr.  Maguire,  soldier  of  the  I.R.A. 

Mrs.  Henderson  1   Residents  of  an 

Mr.  Gallogher    J   adjoining  Tenement 

An  Auxiliary 


scene.     A  room  in  a  tenement  in  Hilljoy  Square,  Dublin.  Some  hours  elapse 
between  the  two  acts.  The  period  of  the  Play  is  May  1920. 

Act  I 

A  Return  Room  in  a  tenement  house  in  Hilljoy  Square.  At  the  hack 
two  large  windows  looking  out  into  the  yard;  they  occupy  practi- 
cally the  whole  of  the  back  wall  space.  Between  the  windows  is  a 
cupboard,  on  the  top  of  which  is  a  pile  of  books.  The  doors  are 
open,  and  on  these  are  hanging  a  number  of  collars  and  ties.  Run- 
ning parallel  with  the  windows  is  a  stretcher  bed;  another  runs  at 
right  angles  along  the  wall  at  right.  At  the  head  of  this  bed  is  a  door 
leading  to  the  rest  of  the  house.  The  wall  on  the  left  runs 
diagonally,  so  that  the  fireplace — which  is  in  the  centre — is  plainly 
visible.  On  the  mantelshelf  to  the  right  is  a  statue  of  the  Virgin,  to 
the  left  a  statue  of  the  Sacred  Heart,  and  in  the  centre  a  crucifix. 
Around  the  fireplace  are  a  few  common  cooking  utensils.  In  the 
centre  of  the  room  is  a  table,  on  which  are  a  typewriter,  a  candle 
and  candlestick,  a  bunch  of  wild  flowers  in  a  vase,  writing  ma- 
terials and  a  number  of  books.  There  are  two  chairs,  one  near  the 
fireplace  and  one  at  the  table.  The  aspect  of  the  place  is  one  of 
absolute  untidiness,  engendered  on  the  one  hand  by  the  congenital 
slovenliness  of  seumas  shields,  and  on  the  other  by  the  tempera- 
ment of  DONAL  davoren,  making  it  appear  impossible  to  effect  an 
improvement  in  such  a  place. 

1  First  performed  at  the  Abbey  Theater,  Dublin,  April  9,  1923. 

247 


248  SEAN    OCASEY 

davoren  is  sitting  at  the  table  typing.  He  is  about  thirty.  There 
is  in  his  face  an  expression  that  seems  to  indicate  an  eternal  war  be- 
tween weakness  and  strength;  there  is  in  the  lines  of  the  brow  and 
chin  an  indication  of  a  desire  for  activity,  while  in  his  eyes  there  is 
visible  an  unquenchable  tendency  towards  rest.  His  struggle 
through  life  has  been  a  hard  one,  and  his  efforts  have  been 
handicapped  by  an  inherited  and  self-developed  devotion  to  'the 
might  of  design,  the  mystery  of  colour,  and  the  belief  in  the  re- 
demption of  all  things  by  beauty  everlasting!  His  life  would  drive 
him  mad  were  it  not  for  the  fact  that  he  never  knew  any  other.  He 
bears  upon  his  body  the  marks  of  the  struggle  for  existence  and 
the  efforts  towards  self-expression. 

seumas  shields,  who  is  in  the  bed  next  the  wall  to  the  right,  i$ 
a  heavily  built  man  of  thirty-five;  he  is  dark-haired  and  sallow- 
complexioned.  In  him  is  frequently  manifested  the  superstition, 
the  fear  and  the  malignity  of  primitive  man. 

Davoren  [lilting  an  air  as  he  composes] : 

Or  when  sweet  Summer's  ardent  arms  outspread, 

Entwined  with  flowers, 

Enfold  us,  like  two  lovers  newly  wed, 

Thro'  ravish'd  hours — 

Then  sorrow,  woe  and  pain  lose  all  their  powers, 

For  each  is  dead,  and  life  is  only  ours. 

(A  woman's  figure  appears  at  the  window  and  taps  loudly  on  one  of  the 
panes;  at  the  same  moment  there  is  loud  knocking  at  the  door.) 

Voice  of  Woman  at  Window.  Are  you  awake,  Mr.  Shields — Mr. 
Shields,  are  you  awake?  Are  you  goin'  to  get  up  today  at  all, 
at  all? 

Voice  at  the  Door.  Mr.  Shields,  is  there  any  use  of  callin'  you  at 
all?  This  is  a  nice  nine  o'clock:  do  you  know  what  time  it  is,  Mr. 
Shields? 

Seumas  [loudly].  Yus! 

Voice  at  the  Door.  Why  don't  you  get  up,  then,  an'  not  have  the 
house  turned  into  a  bedlam  tryin'  to  waken  you? 

Seumas  [shouting].  All  right,  all  right,  all  right!  The  way  these 
oul'  ones  bawl  at  a  body!  Upon  my  soul!  I'm  beginnin'  to  believe 
that  the  Irish  People  are  still  in  the  stone  age.  If  they  could 
they'd  throw  a  bomb  at  you. 


THE   SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  249 

Davoren.  A  land  mine  exploding  under  the  bed  is  the  only  thing 
that  would  lift  you  out  of  it. 

Seumas  [stretching  himself].  Oh-h-h.  I  was  fast  in  the  arms  of 
Morpheus — he  was  one  of  the  infernal  deities,  son  of  Somnus, 
wasn't  he? 

Davoren.   I   think   so. 

Seumas.  The  poppy  was  his  emblem,  wasn't  it? 

Davoren.  Ah,  I  don't  know. 

Seumas.  It's  a  bit  cold  this  morning,  I  think,  isn't  it? 

Davoren.  It's  quite  plain  I'm  not  going  to  get  much  quietness  in 
this  house. 

Seumas  [after  a  pause].  I  wonder  what  time  is  it? 

Davoren.  The  Angelus  went  some  time  ago. 

Seumas  [sitting  up  in  bed  suddenly].  The  Angelus!  It  couldn't  be 
that  late,  could  it?  I  asked  them  to  call  me  at  nine  so  that  I 
could  get  Mass  before  I  went  on  my  rounds.  Why  didn't  you 
give  us  a  rap? 

Davoren.  Give  you  a  rap!  Why,  man,  they've  been  thundering  at 
the  door  and  hammering  at  the  window  for  the  past  two  hours, 
till  the  house  shook  to  its  very  foundations,  but  you  took  less 
notice  of  the  infernal  din  than  I  would  take  of  the  strumming  of 
a  grasshopper. 

Seumas.  There's  no  fear  of  you  thinking  of  any  one  else  when 
you're  at  your  poetry.  The  land  of  Saints  and  Scholars  'ill  shortly 
be  a  land  of  bloody  poets.  [Anxiously]  I  suppose  Maguire  has 
come  and  gone? 

Davoren.  Maguire?  No,  he  hasn't  been  here — why,  did  you  expect 
him? 

Seumas  [in  a  burst  of  indignation].  He  said  he'd  be  here  at  nine. 
'Before  the  last  chime  has  struck,'  says  he,  I'll  be  coming  in  on 
the  door,'  and  it  must  be — what  time  is  it  now? 

Davoren.  Oh,  it  must  be  half-past  twelve. 

Seumas.  Did  anybody  ever  see  the  like  of  the  Irish  People?  Is  there 
any  use  of  tryin'  to  do  anything  in  this  country?  Have  every- 
thing packed  and  ready,  have  everything  packed  and  ready, 
have  .  .  . 


250  SEAN   OCASEY 

Davoren.  And  have  you  everything  packed  and  ready? 

Seumas.  What's  the  use  of  having  anything  packed  and  ready  when 
he  didn't  come?  [He  rises  and  dresses  himself.]  No  wonder  this 
unfortunate  country  is  as  it  is,  for  you  can't  depend  upon  the 
word  of  a  single  individual  in  it.  I  suppose  he  was  too  damn  lazy 
to  get  up;  he  wanted  the  streets  to  be  well  aired  first. — Oh,  Kath- 
leen ni  Houlihan,  your  way's  a  thorny  way. 

Davoren.  Ah  me!  alas,  pain,  pain  ever,  for  ever! 

Seumas.  That's  from  Shelley's  Prometheus  Unbound.  I  could  never 
agree  with  Shelley,  not  that  there's  anything  to  be  said  against 
him  as  a  poet — as  a  poet — but  .  .  . 

Davoren.  He  flung  a  few  stones  through  stained-glass  windows. 

Seumas.  He  wasn't  the  first  nor  he  won't  be  the  last  to  do  that, 
but  the  stained-glass  windows — more  than  ever  of  them — are  here 
still,  and  Shelley  is  doing  a  jazz  dance  down  below. 

( He  gives  a  snarling  laugh  of  pleasure. ) 

Davoren  [shocked].  And  you  actually  rejoice  and  are  exceedingly 
glad  that,  as  you  believe,  Shelley,  the  sensitive,  high-minded, 
noble-hearted  Shelley,  is  suffering  the  tortures  of  the  damned. 

Seumas.  I  rejoice  in  the  vindication  of  the  Church  and  Truth. 

Davoren.  Bah.  You  know  as  little  about  truth  as  anybody  else,  and 
you  care  as  little  about  the  Church  as  the  least  of  those  that 
profess  her  faith;  your  religion  is  simply  the  state  of  being  afraid 
that  God  will  torture  your  soul  in  the  next  world  as  you  are- 
afraid  the  Black  and  Tans  will  torture  your  body  in  this. 

Seumas.  Go  on,  me  boy;  I'll  have  a  right  laugh  at  you  when  both 
of  us  are  dead. 

Davoren.  You're  welcome  to  laugh  as  much  as  you  like  at  me  when 
both  of  us  are  dead. 

Seumas  [as  he  is  about  to  put  on  his  collar  and  tie].  I  don't  think  I 
need  to  wash  meself  this  morning;  do  I  look  all  right? 

Davoren.  Oh,  you're  all  right;  it's  too  late  now  to  start  washing 
yourself.  Didn't  you  wash  yourself  yesterday  morning? 


THE   SHADOW   OF   A  GUNMAN  251 

Seumas.  I  gave  meself  a  great  rub  yesterday.  [He  proceeds  to  pack 
various  articles  into  an  attache  case — spoons,  forks,  laces,  thread, 
etc.]  I  think  I'll  bring  out  a  few  of  the  braces  too;  damn  it, 
they're  well  worth  sixpence  each;  there's  great  stuff  in  them — 
did  you  see  them? 

Davoren.  Yes,  you  showed  them  to  me  before. 

Seumas.  They're  great  value;  I  only  hope  I'll  be  able  to  get  enough 
o'  them.  I'm  wearing  a  pair  of  them  meself — they'd  do  Cuchul- 
lian,  they're  so  strong.  [Counting  the  spoons]  There's  a  dozen  in 
each  of  these  parcels — three,  six,  nine — damn  it,  there's  only 
eleven  in  this  one.  I  better  try  another.  Three,  six,  nine — my 
God,  there's  only  eleven  in  this  one  too,  and  one  of  them  bent! 
Now  I  suppose  I'll  have  to  go  through  the  whole  bloody  lot  of 
them,  for  I'd  never  be  easy  in  me  mind  thinkin'  there'd  be  more 
than  a  dozen  in  some  o'  them.  And  still  we're  looking  for  free- 
dom— ye  gods,  it's  a  glorious  country!  [He  lets  one  fall,  which  he 
stoops  to  pick  up.]  Oh,  my  God,  there's  the  braces  after  breakin'. 

Davoren.  That  doesn't  look  as  if  they  were  strong  enough  for  Cu- 
chullian. 

Seumas.  I  put  a  heavy  strain  on  them  too  sudden.  There's  that  fel- 
low Maguire  never  turned  up,  either;  he's  almost  too  lazy  to 
wash  himself.  [As  he  is  struggling  with  the  braces  the  door  is 
hastily  shoved  in  and  maguire  rushes  in  with  a  handbag.]  This 
is  a  nice  nine  o'clock.  What's  the  use  of  you  coming  at  this  hour 
o'  the  day?  Do  you  think  we're  going  to  work  be  moonlight?  If 
you  weren't  goin'  to  come  at  nine  couldn't  you  say  you 
weren't.  .  .  . 

Maguire.  Keep  your  hair  on;  I  just  blew  in  to  tell  you  that  I 
couldn't  go  to-day  at  all.  I  have  to  go  to  Knocksedan. 

Seumas.  Knocksedan!  An'  what,  in  the  name  o'  God,  is  bringin'  you 
to  Knocksedan? 

Maguire.  Business,  business.  I'm  going  out  to  catch  butterflies. 

Seumas.  If  you  want  to  make  a  cod  of  anybody,  make  a  cod  of 
somebody  else,  an'  don't  be  tryin'  to  make  a  cod  o'  me.  Here  I've 
had  everything  packed  an'  ready  for  hours;  you  were  to  be  here 
at  nine,  an'  you  wait  till  just  one  o'clock  to  come  rushin'  in  like 


252  SEAN    OCASEY 

a  mad  bull  to  say  you've  got  to  go  to  Knocksedan!  Can't  you 
leave  Knocksedan  till  to-morrow? 

Maguire.  Can't  be  did,  can't  be  did,  Seumas;  if  I  waited  till  to- 
morrow all  the  butterflies  might  be  dead.  I'll  leave  this  bag  here 
till  this  evening.  [He  puts  the  bag  in  a  corner  of  the  room.] 
Good-bye  .  .  .  ee. 

(He  is  gone  before  seumas  is  aware  of  it. ) 

Seumas  [with  a  gesture  of  despair].  Oh,  this  is  a  hopeless  coun- 
try! There's  a  fellow  that  thinks  that  the  four  cardinal  virtues  are 
not  to  be  found  outside  an  Irish  Republic.  I  don't  want  to  boast 
about  myself — I  don't  want  to  boast  about  myself,  and  I  suppose 
I  could  call  meself  as  good  as  Gael  as  some  of  those  that  are 
knocking  about  now — knocking  about  now — as  good  a  Gael  as 
some  that  are  knocking  about  now, — but  I  remember  the  time 
when  I  taught  Irish  six  nights  a  week,  when  in  the  Irish  Repub- 
lican Brotherhood  I  paid  me  rifle  levy  like  a  man,  an'  when  the 
Church  refused  to  have  anything  to  do  with  James  Stephens,1 
I  tarred  a  prayer  for  the  repose  of  his  soul  on  the  steps  of  the 
Pro-Cathedral.  Now,  after  all  me  work  for  Dark  Rosaleen,  the 
only  answer  you  can  get  from  a  roarin'  Republican  to  a  simple 
question  is  'Good-bye  .  .  .  ee.'  What,  in  the  name  o'  God,  can 
be  bringin'  him  to  Knocksedan? 

Davoren.  Hadn't  you  better  run  out  and  ask  him? 

Seumas.  That's  right,  that's  right — make  a  joke  about  it!  That's  the 
Irish  People  all  over — they  treat  a  joke  as  a  serious  thing  and  a 
serious  thing  as  a  joke.  Upon  me  soul,  I'm  beginning  to  believe 
that  the  Irish  People  aren't,  never  were,  an'  never  will  be  fit  for 
self-government.  They've  made  Balor  of  the  Evil  Eye  King  of 
Ireland,  an  so  signs  on  it  there's  neither  conscience  nor  honesty 
from  one  end  of  the  country  to  the  other.  Well,  I  hope  he'll  have 
a  happy  day  in  Knocksedan.  [A  knock  at  the  door.]  Who's  that? 
[Another  knock.] 

Seumas  [irritably].  Who's  that;  who's  there? 

Davoren  [more  irritably].  Halt  and  give  the  countersign — damn  it, 
man,  can't  you  go  and  see? 

1  Founder  and   head   of  the   Irish   Republican   Brotherhood,   not   to  be   confused   with   the 
author  and  poet,  James  Stephens. 


THE    SHADOW   OF    A   GUNMAN  253 

(seumas  goes  over  and  opens  the  door.  A  man  of  about  sixty  is  revealed, 
dressed  in  a  faded  blue  serge  suit;  a  half  tall  hat  is  on  his  head.  It  is  evident  that 
he  has  no  love  for  seumas,  who  denies  him  the  deference  he  believes  is  due 
from  a  tenant  to  a  landlord.  He  carries  some  papers  in  his  hand.) 


The  Landlord  [ironically].  Good-day,  Mr.  Shields;  it's  meself  that 
hopes  you're  feelin'  well — you're  lookin'  well,  anyhow — though 
you  can't  always  go  be  looks  nowadays. 

Seumas.  It  doesn't  matter  whether  I'm  lookin'  well  or  feelin'  well; 
I'm  all  right,  thanks  be  to  God. 

The  Landlord.  I'm  very  glad  to  hear  it. 

Seumas.  It  doesn't  matter  whether  you're  glad  to  hear  it  or  not, 
Mr.  Mulligan. 

The  Landlord.  You're  not  inclined  to  be  very  civil,  Mr.   Shields. 

Seumas.  Look  here,  Mr.  Mulligan,  if  you  come  here  to  raise  an  ar- 
gument, I've  something  to  do — let  me  tell  you  that. 

The  Landlord.  I  don't  come  here  to  raise  no  argument;  a  person 
ud  have  small  gains  argufyin'  with  you — let  me  tell  you  that. 

Seumas.  I've  no  time  to  be  standin'  here  gostherin'  with  you — let 
me  shut  the  door,  Mr.  Mulligan. 

The  Landlord.  You'll  not  shut  no  door  till  you've  heard  what  I've 
got  to  say. 

Seumas.  Well,  say  it  then,  an'  go  about  your  business. 

The  Landlord.  You're  very  high  an'  mighty,  but  take  care  you're 
not  go  in'  to  get  a  drop.  What  a  baby  you  are  not  to  know  what 
brings  me  here!  Maybe  you  thought  I  was  goin'  to  ask  you  to 
come  to  tea. 

Davoren.  Ah  me!  alas,  pain,  pain  ever,  for  ever! 

Seumas.  Are  you  goin'  to  let  me  shut  the   door,   Mr.   Mulligan? 

The  Landlord.  I'm  here  for  me  rent;  you  don't  like  the  idea  of  bein' 
asked  to  pay  your  just  an'  lawful  debts. 

Seumas.  You'll  get  your  rent  when  you  learn  to  keep  your  rent- 
book  in  a  proper  way. 

The  Landlord.  I'm  not  goin'  to  take  any  lessons  from  you,  anyhow. 

Seumas.  I  want  to  have  no  more  talk  with  you,  Mr.  Mulligan. 


254  SEAN    OCASEY 

The  Landlord.  Talk  or  no  talk,  you  owe  me  eleven  weeks'  rent,  an* 
it's  marked  down  again'  you  in  black  an'  white. 

Seumas.  I  don't  care  a  damn  if  it  was  marked  down  in  green,  white,, 
an'  yellow. 

The  Landlord.  You're  a  terribly  independent  fellow,  an'  it  ud  be 
fitter  for  you  to  be  less  funny  an'  stop  tryin'  to  be  billickin' 1  hon- 
est an'  respectable  people. 

Seumas.  Just  you  be  careful  what  you're  say  in',  Mr.  Mulligan. 
There's  law  in  the  land  still. 

The  Landlord.  Be  me  sowl  there  is,  an'  you're  goin'  to  get  a  little 
of  it  now.   [He  offers  the  papers  to  seumas.]  Them's  for  you. 

Seumas  [hesitating  to  take  them].  I  want  to  have  nothing  to  do 
with  you,   Mr.   Mulligan. 

The  Landlord  [throwing  the  papers  in  the  centre  of  the  room]. 
What  am  I  better?  It  was  the  sorry  day  I  ever  let  you  come  into 
this  house.  Maybe  them  notices  to  quit  will  stop  your  writin'  let- 
ters to  the  papers  about  me  an'  me  house. 

Davoren.  For  goodness'  sake,  bring  the  man  in,  and  don't  be  dis- 
cussing the  situation  like  a  pair  of  primitive  troglodytes. 

Seumas  [taking  no  notice].  Writing  letters  to  the  papers  is  my 
business,  an'  I'll  write  as  often  as  I  like,  when  I  like,  an'  how 
I  like. 

The  Landlord.  You'll  not  write  about  this  house  at  all  events.  You 
can  blow  about  the  state  of  the  yard,  but  you  took  care  to  say 
nothin'  about  payin'  rent:  oh  no,  that's  not  in  your  line.  But 
since  you're  not  satisfied  with  the  house,  you  can  pack  up  an'  go 
to  another. 

Seumas.  I'll  go,  Mr.  Mulligan,  when  I  think  fit,  an'  no  sooner. 

The  Landlord.  Not  content  with  keeping  the  rent,  you're  startin'  to 
bring  in  lodgers — [to  davoren]  not  that  I'm  sayin'  anythin'  again' 
you,  sir.  Bringin'  in  lodgers  without  as  much  as  be  your  leave — 
what's  the  world  comin'  to  at  all  that  a  man's  house  isn't  his 
own?  But  I'll  soon  put  a  stop  to  your  gallop,  for  on  the  twenty- 
eight  of  the  next  month  out  you  go,  an'  there'll  be  few  sorry  to 
see  your  back. 

1  Bilking. 


THE    SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  255 

Seumas.  I'll  go  when  I  like. 

The  Landlord.  I'll  let  you  see  whether  you  own  the  house  or  no. 

Seumas.  I'll  go  when  I  like! 

The  Landlord.  We'll  see  about  that. 

Seumas.  We'll  see. 

The  Landlord.  Ay,  we'll  see. 

( The  landlord  goes  out  and  seumas  shuts  the  door. ) 

The  Landlord  [outside].  Mind  you,  I'm  in  earnest;  you'll  not  stop 
in  this  house  a  minute  longer  than  the  twenty-eight. 

Seumas  [with  a  roar].  Ah,  go  to  hell! 

Davoren  [pacing  the  room  as  far  as  the  space  will  permit].  What 
in  the  name  of  God  persuaded  me  to  come  to  such  a  house  as 
this? 

Seumas.  It's  nothing  when  you're  used  to  it;  you're  too  thin-skinned 
altogether.  The  oul'  sod's  got  the  wind  up  about  you,  that's  all. 

Davoren.  Got  the  wind  up  about  me! 

Seumas.  He  thinks  you're  on  the  run.  He's  afraid  of  a  raid,  and 
that  his  lovely  property '11  be  destroyed. 

Davoren.  But  why,  in  the  name  of  all  that's  sensible,  should  he 
think  that  I'm  on  the  run? 

Seumas.  Sure  they  all  think  you're  on  the  run.  Mrs.  Henderson 
thinks  it,  Tommy  Owens  thinks  it,  Mrs.  an'  Mr.  Grigson  think  it, 
an'  Minnie  Powell  thinks  it  too.  [Picking  up  his  attache  case] 
I'd  .better  be  off  if  I'm  goin'  to  do  anything  to-day. 

Davoren.  What  are  we  going  to  do  with  these  notices  to  quit? 

Seumas.  Oh,  shove  them  up  on  the  mantel-piece  behind  one  of 
the  statues. 

Davoren.   Oh,   I  mean  what  action  shall  we   take? 

Seumas.  I  haven't  time  to  stop  now.  We'll  talk  about  them  when 
I  come  back.  .  .  .  I'll  get  me  own  back  on  that  oul'  Mulligan 
yet.  I  wish  to  God  they  would  come  an'  smash  his  rookery  to 
pieces,  for  it's  all  he  thinks  of,  and,  mind  you,  oul'  Mulligan 
would  call  himself  a  descendant  of  the  true  Gaels  of  Banba1 — 


256  SEAN    OCASEY 

[as  he  goes  out]: 

Oh,  proud  were  the  chieftains  of  famed  Inisfail. 

Is  truagh  gan  oidher  'na  Vf  arradh  1 

The  stars  of  our  sky  an'  the  salt  of  our  soil — 

Oh,  Kathleen  ni  Houlihan,  your  way's  a  thorny  way! 

( He  goes  out. ) 

Davoren  [returning  to  the  table  and  sitting  down  at  the  type- 
writer]. Oh,  Donal  Og  O'Davoren,  your  way's  a  thorny  way. 
Your  last  state  is  worse  than  your  first.  Ah  me,  alas!  Pain,  pain 
ever,  for  ever.  Like  thee,  Prometheus,  no  change,  no  pause,  no 
hope.  Ah,  life,  life,  life!  [There  is  a  gentle  knock  at  the  door.] 
Another  Fury  come  to  plague  me  now!  [Another  knock,  a  little 
louder] . 

Davoren.  You  can  knock  till  you're  tired. 

(The  door  opens  and  minnie  powell  enters  with  an  easy  confidence  one 
would  not  expect  her  to  possess  from  her  gentle  way  of  knocking.  She  is  a  girl 
of  twenty-three,  but  the  fact  of  being  forced  to  earn  her  living,  and  to  take  care 
of  herself,  on  account  of  her  parents'  early  death,  has  given  her  a  force  and 
an  assurance  beyond  her  years.  She  has  lost  the  sense  of  fear  (she  does  not  know 
this),  and,  consequently,  she  is  at  ease  in  all  places  and  before  all  persons,  even 
those  of  a  superior  education,  so  long  as  she  meets  them  in  the  atmosphere  that 
surrounds  the  members  of  her  own  class.  Her  hair  is  brown,  neither  light  nor 
dark,  but  partaking  of  both  tints  according  to  the  light  or  shade  she  may  happen 
to  be  in.  Her  well-shaped  figure — a  rare  thing  in  a  city  girl — is  charmingly 
dressed  in  a  brown  tailor-made  costume,  her  stockings  and  shoes  are  a  darker 
brown  tint  than  the  costume,  and  all  are  crowned  by  a  silk  tam-o'-shanter  of  a 
rich  blue  tint.) 

Minnie.  Are  you  in,  Mr.  Shields? 

Davoren  [rapidly].  No,  he's  not,  Minnie;  he's  just  gone  out — if  you 
run  out  quickly  you're  sure  to  catch  him. 

Minnie.  Oh,  it's  all  right,  Mr.  Davoren,  you'll  do  just  as  well;  I  just 
come  in  for  a  drop  o'  milk  for  a  cup  o'  tea;  I  shouldn't  be  troublin' 
you  this  way,  but  I'm  sure  you  don't  mind. 

Davoren  [dubiously].  No  trouble  in  the  world;  delighted,  I'm  sure. 
[Giving  her  the  milk]  There,  will  you  have  enough? 

1  It's  a  pity  they  have  no  heir. 


THE    SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  257 

Minnie.  Plenty,  lashins,  thanks.  Do  you  be  all  alone  all  the  day, 
Mr.  Davoren? 

Davoren.  No,  indeed;  I  wish  to  God  I  was. 

Minnie.  It's  not  good  for  you  then.  I  don't  know  how  you  like  to 
be  by  yourself — I  couldn't  stick  it  long. 

Davoren  [wearily].  No? 

Minnie.  No,  indeed;  [with  rapture]  there's  nothin'  I'm  more  fond 
of  than  a  Hooley.1  I  was  at  one  last  Sunday — I  danced  rings 
round  me!  Tommy  Owens  was  there — you  know  Tommy  Owens, 
don't  you? 

Davoren.  I  can't  say  I  do. 

Minnie.  D'ye  not?  The  little  fellow  that  lives  with  his  mother  in 
the  two-pair  back — [ecstatically]  he's  a  gorgeous  melodeon 
player! 

Davoren.  A  gifted  son  of  Orpheus,  eh? 

Minnie  [who  never  heard  of  Orpheus].  You've  said  it,  Mr.  Dav- 
oren: the  son  of  poor  oul'  Battie  Owens,  a  weeshy,2  dawny,3  bit 
of  a  man  that  was  never  sober  an'  was  always  talkin'  politics. 
Poor  man,  it  killed  him  in  the  long  run. 

Davoren.  A  man  should  always  be  drunk,  Minnie,  when  he  talks 
politics — it's  the  only  way  in  which  to  make  them  important. 

Minnie.  Tommy  takes  after  the  oul'  fellow,  too;  he'd  talk  from, 
morning  till  night  when  he  has  a  few  jars  in  him.  [Suddenly;  for 
like  all  of  her  class,  minnie  is  not  able  to  converse  very  long  on 
the  one  subject,  and  her  thoughts  spring  from  one  thing  to  an- 
other] Poetry  is  a  grand  thing,  Mr.  Davoren,  I'd  love  to  be  able 
to  write  a  poem — a  lovely  poem  on  Ireland  an'  the  men  o'  '98. 

Davoren.  Oh,  we've  had  enough  of  poems,  Minnie,  about  '98,  and 
of  Ireland,  too. 

Minnie.  Oh,  there's  a  thing  for  a  Republican  to  say!  But  I  know 
what  you  mean:  it's  time  to  give  up  the  writing  an'  take  to  the 
gun.  [Her  roving  eye  catches  sight  of  the  flowers  in  the  vase] 
What's  Mr.  Shields  doin'  with  the  oul'  weeds? 


1  A  party. 

2  Small. 

3  Feeble. 


258  SEAN    OCASEY 

Davoren.  Those  aren't  Shields',  they're  mine.  Wild  flowers  is  a  kind- 
lier name  for  them,  Minnie,  than  weeds.  These  are  wild  violets, 
this  is  an  Arum  maculatum,  or  Wake  Robin,  and  these  are  Cel- 
andines, a  very  beautiful  flower  related  to  the  buttercups.  [He 
quotes]  : 

One  day,  when  Morn's  half-open'd  eyes 
Were  bright  with  Spring  sunshine — 
My  hand  was  clasp'd  in  yours,  dear  love, 
And  yours  was  clasp'd  in  mine — 
We  bow'd  as  worshippers  before 
The  Golden  Celandine. 

Minnie.  Oh,  aren't  they  lovely,  an'  isn't  the  poem  lovely,  too!  I 
wonder,  now,  who  she  was. 

Davoren  [puzzled].  She,  who? 

Minnie.  Why,  the  .  .  .   [roguishly]  Oh,  be  the  way  you  don't  know. 

Davoren.  Know?  I'm  sure  I  don't  know. 

Minnie.  It  doesn't  matter,  anyhow — that's  your  own  business;  I  sup- 
pose I  don't  know  her. 

Davoren.   Know   her — know   whom? 

Minnie  [shyly].  Her  whose  hand  was  clasped  in  yours,  an'  yours 
was  clasped  in  hers. 

Davoren.  Oh  that — that  was  simply  a  poem  I  quoted  about  the  Cel- 
andine, that  might  apply  to  any  girl — to  you,  for  instance. 

Minnie  [greatly  relieved,  coming  over  and  sitting  beside  davoren]. 
But  you  have  a  sweetheart,  all  the  same,  Mr.  Davoren,  haven't 
you? 

Davoren.  I?  No,  not  one,  Minnie. 

Minnie.  Oh,  now,  you  can  tell  that  to  some  one  else;  aren't  you  a 
poet  an'  aren't  all  the  girls  fond  o'  poets? 

Davoren.  That  may  be,  but  all  the  poets  aren't  fond  of  girls. 

Minnie.  They  are  in  the  story-books,  ay,  and  fond  of  more  than 
one,  too.  [With  a  questioning  look]  Are  you  fond  of  them,  Mr. 
Davoren? 

Davoren.  Of  course  I  like  girls,  Minnie,  especially  girls  who  can 
add  to  their  charms  by  the  way  in  which  they  dress,  like  you, 
for  instance. 


THE    SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  259 

Minnie.  Oh,  now,  you're  on  for  coddin'  me,  Mr.  Davoren. 

Davoren.  No,  really,  Minnie,  I'm  not;  you  are  a  very  charming  lit- 
tle girl  indeed. 

Minnie.  Then  if  I'm  a  charmin'  little  girl,  you  ought  to  be  able  to 
write  a  poem  about  me. 

Davoren  [who  has  become  susceptible  to  the  attractiveness  of 
minnie,  catching  her  hand].  And  so  I  will,  so  I  will,  Minnie;  I 
have  written  about  girls  not  half  so  pretty  as  yourself. 

Minnie.  Ah,  I  knew  you  had  one,  I  knew  you  had  one  now. 

Davoren.  Nonsense.  Every  girl  a  poet  writes  about  isn't  his  sweet- 
heart; Annie  Laurie  wasn't  the  sweetheart  of  Bobbie  Burns. 

Minnie.  You  needn't  tell  me  she  wasn't;  'An'  for  bonnie  Annie  Lau- 
rie I'd  lay  me  down  an'  die.'  No  man  ud  lay  down  an'  die  for  any 
but  a  sweetheart,  not  even  for  a  wife. 

Davoren.  No  man,  Minnie,  willingly  dies  for  anything. 

Minnie.  Except  for  his  country,  like  Robert  Emmet. 

Davoren.  Even  he  would  have  lived  on  if  he  could;  he  died  not  to 
deliver  Ireland.  The  British  Government  killed  him  to  save  the 
British  nation. 

Minnie.  You're  only  jokin'  now;  you'd  die  for  your  country. 

Davoren.  I  don't  know  so  much  about  that. 

Minnie.  You  would,  you  would,  you  would — I  know  what  you  are. 

Davoren.  What  am  I? 

Minnie  [in  a  whisper].  A  gunman  on  the  run! 

Davoren  [too  pleased  to  deny  it].  Maybe  I  am,  and  maybe  I'm 
not. 

Minnie.  Oh,  I  know,  I  know,  I  know.  Do  you  never  be  afraid? 

Davoren.  Afraid!  Afraid  of  what? 

Minnie.  Why,  the  ambushes  of  course;  I'm  all  of  a  tremble  when 
I  hear  a  shot  go  off,  an'  what  must  it  be  in  the  middle  of  the 
fir  in'? 

Davoren  [delighted  at  Minnie's  obvious  admiration;  leaning  back 
in  his  chair,  and  lighting  a  cigarette  with  placid  affection].  Ill 
admit  one  does  be  a  little  nervous  at  first,  but  a  fellow  gets  used 


260  SEAN    O  CASEY 

to  it  after  a  bit,  till,  at  last,  a  gunman  throws  a  bomb  as  care- 
lessly as  a  schoolboy  throws  a  snowball. 

Minnie  [fervently].  I  wish  it  was  all  over,  all  the  same.  [Suddenly, 
with  a  tremor  in  her  voice]  You'll  take  care  of  yourself,  won't 
you,  won't  you,  Donal — I  mean,  Mr.  Davoren? 

Davoren  [earnestly].  Call  me  Donal,  Minnie;  we're  friends,  great 
friends  now — [putting  his  arm  around  her]  go  on,  Minnie,  call 
me  Donal,  let  me  hear  you  say  Donal. 

Minnie.  The  place  badly  needs  a  tidyin'  up  .  .  .  Donal — there  now, 
are  you  satisfied?  [Rapidly,  half  afraid  of  davoren's  excited  emo- 
tions] But  it  really  does,  it's  in  an  awful  state.  To-morrow's  a 
half-day,  an'  I'll  run  in  an'  straighten  it  up  a  bit. 

Davoren  [frightened  at  the  suggestion].  No,  no,  Minnie,  you're 
too  pretty  for  that  sort  of  work;  besides,  the  people  of  the  house 
would  be  sure  to  start  talking  about  you. 

Minnie.  An'  do  you  think  Minnie  Powell  cares  whether  they'll  talk 
or  no?  She's  had  to  push  her  way  through  life  up  to  this  without 
help  from  any  one,  an'  she's  not  goin'  to  ask  their  leave,  now,  to 
do  what  she  wants  to  do. 

Davoren  [forgetting  his  timidity  in  the  honest  joy  of  appreciating 
the  independent  courage  of  minnie].  My  soul  within  art  thou, 
Minnie!  A  pioneer  in  action  as  I  am  a  pioneer  in  thought.  The 
two  powers  that  shall  'grasp  this  sorry  scheme  of  things  entire, 
and  mould  life  nearer  to  the  heart's  desire.'  Lovely  little  Minnie, 
and  brave  as  well;  brave  little  Minnie,  and  lovely  as  well! 

( His  disengaged  hand  lifts  up  her  bent  head,  and  he  looks  earnestly  at  her; 
he  is  stooping  to  kiss  her,  when  tommy  owens  appears  at  the  door,  which 
minnie  has  left  partially  open,  tommy  is  about  twenty-five  years  of  age.  He  is 
small  and  thin;  his  words  are  uttered  in  a  nasal  drawl;  his  voice  is  husky,  due  to 
frequent  drinks  and  perpetual  cigarette-smoking.  He  tries  to  get  rid  of  the 
huskiness  by  an  occasional  cough,  tommy  is  a  hero-worshipper,  and,  like  many 
others,  he  is  anxious  to  be  on  familiar  terms  with  those  who  he  thinks  are 
braver  than  he  is  himself,  and  whose  approbation  he  tries  to  win  by  an  assump- 
tion equal  to  their  own.  He  talks  in  a  staccato  manner.  He  has  a  few  drinks 
taken — it  is  too  early  to  be  drunk — that  make  him  talkative.  He  is  dressed  in  a 
suit  of  dungarees,  and  gives  a  gentle  cough  to  draw  attention  to  his  presence. ) 

Tommy.  I  seen  nothin' — honest — thought  you  was  learnin'  to  type- 
write— Mr.  Davoren  teachin'  you.  I  seen  nothin'  else — s'help  me 
God! 


THE    SHADOW   OF    A   GUNMAN  261 

Minnie.  We'd  be  hard  put  to  it  if  we  minded  what  you  seen, 
Tommy  Owens. 

Tommy.  Right,  Minnie,  Tommy  Owens  has  a  heart — Evenin',  Mr. 
Davoren — don't  mind  me  comin'  in — I'm  Tommy  Owens — live  up 
in  the  two-pair  back,  workin'  in  Ross  an'  Walpole's — Mr.  Shields 
knows  me  well;  you  needn't  be  afraid  o'  me,  Mr.  Davoren. 

Davoren.  Why  should  I  be  afraid  of  you,  Mr.  Owens,  or  of  any- 
body else? 

Tommy.  Why  should  you,  indeed?  We're  all  friends  here — Mr. 
Shields  knows  me  well — all  you've  got  to  say  is,  'Do  you  know 
Tommy  Owens?'  an'  he'll  tell  you  the  sort  of  a  man  Tommy  Ow- 
ens is.  There's  no  flies  on  Tommy — got  me? 

Minnie.  For  goodness'  sake,  Tommy,  leave  Mr.  Davoren  alone — 
he's  got  enough  burgeons  on  him  already. 

Tommy.  Not  a  word,  Minnie,  not  a  word — Mr.  Davoren  understands 
me  well,  as  man  to  man.  It's  'Up  the  Republic'  all  the  time — eh, 
Mr.  Davoren? 

Davoren.  I  know  nothing  about  the  Republic;  I  have  no  connec- 
tion with  the  politics  of  the  day,  and  I  don't  want  to  have  any 
connection. 

Tommy.  You  needn't  say  no  more — a  nod's  as  good  as  a  wink  to  a 
blind  horse — you've  no  meddlin'  or  makin'  with  it  good,  bad,  or 
indifferent,  pro  nor  con;  I  know  it  an'  Minnie  knows  it — give 
me  your  hand.  [He  catches  davoren's  hand]  Two  firm  hands 
clasped  together  will  all  the  power  outbrave  of  the  heartless 
English  tyrant,  the  Saxon  coward  an'  knave.  That's  Tommy  Ow- 
ens' hand,  Mr.  Davoren,  the  hand  of  a  man,  a  man — Mr.  Shields 
knows  me  well. 

( He  breaks  into  song. ) 

High  upon  the  gallows  tree  stood  the  noble-hearted  three, 
By  the  vengeful  tyrant  stricken  in  their  bloom; 
But  they  met  him  face  to  face  with  the  spirit  of  their  race, 
And  they  went  with  souls  undaunted  to  their  doom! 

Minnie  [in  an  effort  to  quell  his  fervour].  Tommy  Owens,  for  good- 
ness' sake  .  .  . 
Tommy   [overwhelming  her  with  a  shout]: 


262  SEAN    OCASEY 

God  save  Ireland  ses  the  hayros,  God  save  Ireland  ses  we  all, 
Whether  on  the  scaffold  high  or  the  battle-field  we  die, 
Oh,  what  matter  when  for  Ayryinn  dear  we  fall! 

[Tearfully]  Mr.  Davoren,  I'd  die  for  Ireland! 

Davoren.  I  know  you  would,  I  know  you  would,  Tommy. 

Tommy.  I  never  got  a  chance — they  never  gave  me  a  chance — but 
all  the  same  I'd  be  there  if  I  was  called  on — Mr.  Shields  knows 
that — ask  Mr.  Shields,  Mr.  Davoren. 

Davoren.  There's  no  necessity,  Tommy;  I  know  you're  the  right 
stuff  if  you  got  the  chance,  but  remember  that  'he  also  serves 
who  only  stands  and  waits.' 

Tommy  [fiercely].  I'm  bloody  well  tired  o'  waitin' — we're  all  tired 
o'  waitin'.  Why  isn't  every  man  in  Ireland  out  with  the  I.R.A.? 
Up  with  the  barricades,  up  with  the  barricades;  it's  now  or 
never,  now  an'  for  ever,  as  Sarsfield  x  said  at  the  battle  o'  Vine- 
gar Hill.  Up  with  the  barricades — that's  Tommy  Owens — an'  a 
penny  buys  a  whistle.  Let  them  as  thinks  different  say  different 
— what  do  you  say,  Mr.  Davoren? 

Davoren.  I  say,  Tommy,  you  ought  to  go  up  and  get  your  dinner, 
for  if  you  wait  much  longer  it  won't  be  worth  eating. 

Tommy.  Oh,  damn  the  dinner;  who'd  think  o'  dinner  an'  Ireland 
fightin'  to  be  free? — not  Tommy  Owens,  anyhow.  It's  only  the 
Englishman  who's  always  thinkin'  of  his  belly. 

Minnie.  Tommy  Owens! 

Tommy.  Excuse  me,  Miss  Powell,  in  the  ardure  ov  me  anger  I  dis- 
remembered  there  was  a  lady  present. 

(Voices  are  heard  outside,  and  presently  mrs.  Henderson  comes  into  the 
room,  followed  by  mr.  gallogher,  who,  however,  lingers  at  the  door,  too 
timid  to  come  any  farther,  mrs.  Henderson  is  a  massive  woman  in  every  way; 
massive  head,  arms,  and  body;  massive  voice,  and  a  massive  amount  of  self- 
confidence.  She  is  a  mountain  of  good  nature,  and  during  the  interview  she 
behaves  towards  davoren  with  deferential  self-assurance.  She  dominates  the 
room,  and  seems  to  occupy  the  whole  of  it.  She  is  dressed  poorly  but  tidily, 
wearing  a  white  apron  and  a  large  shawl,  mr.  gallogher,  on  the  other  hand,  is 
a  spare  little  man  with  a  spare  little  grey  beard  and  a  thin,  nervous  voice.  He  is 
dressed  as  well  as  a  faded  suit  of  blue  will  allow  him  to  be.  He  is  obviously  ill 
at  ease  during  his  interview  with  davoren.  He  carries  a  hard  hat,  much  the 
worse  for  wear,  under  his  left  arm,  and  a  letter  in  his  right  hand. ) 

1  Patrick  Sarsfield,  a  hero  of  the  Williamite  Wars  1690-1691,  obviously  had  no  part  in  the 
battle  of  Vinegar  Hill,  County  Wexford,  1798. 


THE    SHADOW   OF    A   GUNMAN  263 

Mrs.  Henderson  [entering  the  room].  Come  along  in,  Mr.  Galli- 
cker,  Mr.  Davoren  won't  mind;  it's  him  as  can  put  you  in  the 
way  o'  havin'  your  wrongs  righted;  come  on  in,  man,  an'  don't 
be  so  shy — Mr.  Davoren  is  wan  ov  ourselves  that  stands  for  gov- 
ermint  ov  the  people  with  the  people  by  the  people.  You'll  find 
you'll  be  as  welcome  as  the  flowers  in  May.  Good  evenin',  Mr. 
Davoren,  an'  God  an'  His  holy  angels  be  between  you  an'  all 
harm. 

Tommy  [effusively].  Come  on,  Mr.  Gallicker,  an'  don't  be  a  stran- 
ger— we're  all  friends  here — anything  special  to  be  done  or  par- 
ticular advice  asked,  here's  your  man  here. 

Davoren  [subconsciously  pleased,  but  a  little  timid  of  the  belief 
that  he  is  connected  with  the  gunmen].  I'm  very  busy  just  now, 
Mrs.  Henderson,  and  really  .  .  . 

Mrs.  Henderson  [mistaking  the  reason  of  his  embarrassment]. 
Don't  be  put  out,  Mr.  Davoren,  we  won't  keep  you  more  nor  a 
few  minutes.  It's  not  in  me  or  in  Mr.  Gallicker  to  spoil  sport. 
Him  an'  me  was  young  once,  an'  knows  what  it  is  to  be  strolling 
at  night  in  the  pale  moonlight,  with  arms  round  one  another. 
An'  I  wouldn't  take  much  an'  say  there's  game  in  Mr.  Gallicker 
still,  for  I  seen,  sometimes,  a  dangerous  cock  in  his  eye.  But  we 
won't  keep  you  an'  Minnie  long  asunder;  he's  the  letter  an'  all 
written.  You  must  know,  Mr.  Davoren — excuse  me  for  not  intro- 
ducin'  him  sooner — this  is  Mr.  Gallicker,  that  lives  in  the  front 
drawin'-room  ov  number  fifty-five,  as  decent  an'  honest  an'  quiet 
a  man  as  you'd  meet  in  a  day's  walk.  An'  so  signs  on  it,  it's  them 
as  'ill  be  imposed  upon — read  the  letter,  Mr.  Gallicker. 

Tommy.  Read  away,  Mr.  Gallicker,  it  will  be  attended  to,  never 
fear;  we  know  our  own  know,  eh,  Mr.  Davoren? 

Minnie.  Hurry  up,  Mr.  Gallicker,  an'  don't  be  keeping  Mr.  Dav- 
oren. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  Give  him  time,  Minnie  Powell.  Give  him  time. 
You  must  know  in  all  fairity,  Mr.  Davoren,  that  the  family  livin' 
in  the  next  room  to  Mr.  Gallicker — the  back  drawin'-room,  to  be 
particular — am  I  right  or  am  I  wrong,  Mr.  Gallicker? 

Mr.  Gallogher.  You're  right,  Mrs.  Henderson,  perfectly  right,  indeed 
— that's  the  very  identical  room. 


264  SEAN   OCASEY 

Mrs.  Henderson.  Well,  Mr.  Davoren,  the  people  in  the  back 
drawin'-room,  or,  to  be  more  particular,  the  residents — that's  the 
word  that's  writ  in  the  letter — am  I  right  or  am  I  wrong,  Mr. 
Gallicker? 

Mr.  Gallogher.  You're  right,  Mrs.  Henderson,  perfectly  accurate — 
that's  the  very  identical  word. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  Well,  Mr.  Davoren,  the  residents  in  the  back 
drawin'-room,  as  I  aforesaid,  is  nothin'  but  a  gang  o'  tramps  that 
oughtn't  to  be  allowed  to  associate  with  honest,  decent,  quiet,  re- 
spectable people.  Mr.  Gallicker  has  tried  to  reason  with  them, 
and  make  them  behave  themselves — which  in  my  opinion  they 
never  will — however,  that's  only  an  opinion,  an'  not  legal — ever 
since  they  have  made  Mr.  Gallicker's  life  a  Hell!  Mr.  Gallicker, 
am  I  right  or  am  I  wrong? 

Mr.  Gallogher.  I'm  sorry  to  say  you're  right,  Mrs.  Henderson,  per- 
fectly right — not  a  word  of  exaggeration. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  Well,  now,  Mr.  Gallicker,  seein'  as  I  have  given 
Mr.  Davoren  a  fair  account  ov  how  you're  situated,  an'  ov  these 
tramps'  cleverality,  I'll  ask  you  to  read  the  letter,  which  I'll  say, 
not  because  you're  there,  or  that  you're  a  friend  o'  mine,  is  as 
good  a  letter  as  was  decomposed  by  a  scholar.  Now,  Mr.  Gal- 
licker, an'  don't  forget  the  top  sayin'. 

(mr.  gallogher  prepares  to  read;  minnie  leans  forward  to  listen;  tommy 
takes  out  a  well-worn  note-book  and  a  pencil  stump,  and  assumes  a  very  im- 
portant attitude.) 

Tommy.  One  second.  Mr.  Gallicker,  is  this  the  twenty-first  or 
twenty-second? 

Mr.  Gallogher.  The  twenty-first,  sir. 

Tommy.  Thanks;  proceed,  Mr.  Gallicker. 

Mr.  Gallogher  [with  a  few  preliminary  tremors,  reads  the  letter. 
Reading] : 

'To  All  to  Whom  These  Presents  Come, 

Greeting 

Gentlemen  of  the  Irish  Republican  Army  .  .  .' 

Mrs.  Henderson.  There's  a  beginnin'  for  you,  Mr.  Davoren. 
Minnie.  That's  some  swank. 


THE    SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  265 

Tommy.  There's  a  lot  in  that  sayin',  mind  you;  it's  a  hard  wallop 
at  the  British  Empire. 

Mrs.  Henderson  [proudly].  Go  on,  Mr.  Gallicker. 

Mr.  Gallogher  [reading]: 

'I  wish  to  call  your  attention  to  the  persecution  me  and  my  family  has  to 
put  up  with  in  respect  of  and  appertaining  to  the  residents  of  the  back  drawing- 
room  of  the  house  known  as  fifty-five,  Saint  Teresa  Street,  situate  in  the  Parish 
of  St.  Thomas,  in  the  Borough  and  City  of  Dublin.  This  persecution  started 
eighteen  months  ago — or  to  be  precise — on  the  tenth  day  of  the  sixth  month,  in 
the  year  nineteen  hundred  and  eighteen.' 

Mrs.  Henderson.  That's  the  word  I  was  trying  to  think  ov — precise 
— it  cuts  the  ground  from  under  their  feet — so  to  speak. 

Mr.  Gallogher  [reading]: 

"We,  the  complainants,  resident  on  the  ground  floor,  deeming  it  disrespect- 
able  .  .  .' 

Mrs.  Henderson  [with  an  emphatic  nod].  Which  it  was. 
Mr.  Gallogher  [reading]: 

'Deeming  it  disrespectable  to  have  an  open  hall  door,  and  to  have  the  hall 
turned  into  a  playground,  made  a  solemn  protest,  and,  in  consequence,  we  the 
complainants  aforesaid  has  had  no  peace  ever  since.  Owing  to  the  persecution, 
as  aforesaid  specified,  we  had  to  take  out  a  summons  again  them  some  time  ago 
as  there  was  no  Republican  Courts  then;  but  we  did  not  proceed  again  them 
as  me  and  my  wife — to  wit,  James  and  Winifred  Gallogher — has  a  strong  ob- 
jection to  foreign  Courts  as  such.  We  had  peace  for  some  time  after  that,  but 
now  things  have  gone  from  bad  to  worse.  The  name  calling  and  the  language 
is  something  abominable  .  .  / 

Mrs.  henderson  [holding  out  her  hand  as  a  constable  would  ex- 
tend his  to  stop  a  car  that  another  may  pass].  Excuse  me,  Mr. 
Gallicker,  but  I  think  the  word  'shockin' '  should  be  put  in  there 
after  abominable;  for  the  language  used  be  these  tramps  has  two 
ways  o'  bein'  looked  at — for  it's  abominable  to  the  childer  an' 
shockin'  to  your  wife — am  I  right  or  am  I  wrong,  Mr.  Davoren? 

Tommy  [judicially].  Shockin'  is  a  right  good  word,  with  a  great 
deal  o'  meanin',  an'  .  .  . 

Mrs.  Henderson  [with  a  deprecating  gesture  that  extinguishes 
tommy].  Tommy,  let  Mr.  Davoren  speak;  whatever  Mr.  Dav- 
oren ses,  Julia  Henderson'll  abide  be. 


266  SEAN   OCASEY 

Davoren  [afraid  to  say  anything  else],  I  think  the  word  might  cer- 
tainly be  introduced  with  advantage. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  Go  over  there,  Mr.  Gallicker,  an'  put  in  the  word 
shockin',  as  aforesaid. 

(  gallogher  goes  over  to  the  table,  and  with  a  great  deal  of  difficulty  enters 
the  word. ) 

Tommy  [to  mr.  gallogher  as  he  writes].  Ey,  there's  two  k's  in 
shockin'! 

Mr.  Gallogher  [reading] : 

'The  language  is  something  abominable  and  shocking.  My  wife  has  often  to 
lock  the  door  of  the  room  to  keep  them  from  assaulting  her.  If  you  would  be  so 
kind  as  to  send  some  of  your  army  or  police  down  to  see  for  themselves  we 
would  give  them  full  particulars.  I  have  to  be  always  from  home  all  day,  as  I 
work  with  Mr.  Hennessy,  the  harness  maker  of  the  Coombe,  who  will  furnish 
all  particulars  as  to  my  unvarnished  respectability,  also  my  neighbours.  The 
name  of  the  resident-tenant  who  is  giving  all  this  trouble  and  who,  pursuant  to 
the  facts  of  the  case  aforesaid,  mentioned,  will  be  the  defendant,  is  Dwyer.  The 
husband  of  the  aforesaid  Mrs.  Dwyer,  or  the  aforesaid  defendant,  as  the  case 
may  be,  is  a  seaman,  who  is  coming  home  shortly,  and  we  beg  The  Irish  Repub- 
lican Army  to  note  that  the  said  Mrs.  Dwyer  says  he  will  settle  us  when  he 
comes  home.  While  leaving  it  entirely  in  the  hands  of  the  gentlemen  of  The 
Republican  Army,  the  defendant,  that  is  to  say,  James  Gallogher  of  fifty-five 
St.  Teresa  Street,  ventures  to  say  that  he  thinks  he  has  made  out  a  Primmy 
Fashy  Case  against  Mrs.  Dwyer  and  all  her  heirs,  male  and  female  as  aforesaid 
mentioned  in  the  above  written  schedule. 

'N.B. — If  you  send  up  any  of  your  men,  please  tell  them  to  bring  their  guns. 
I  beg  to  remain  the  humble  servant  and  devoted  admirer  of  the  Gentlemen  of 
the  Irish  Republican  Army. 

'Witness  my  hand  this  tenth  day  of  the  fifth  month  of  the  year  nineteen  hun- 
dred and  twenty. 

'James  Gallogher.' 

Mr.  Gallogher  [with  a  modest  cough].  Ahem. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  There's  a  letter  for  you,  Mr.  Davoren! 

Tommy.  It's  the  most  powerfullest  letter  I  ever  heard  read. 

Minnie.  It  wasn't  you,  really,  that  writ  it,  Mr.  Gallicker? 

Mrs.  Henderson.  Sinn  Fein  Amhain:1  him  an'  him  only,  Minnie.  I 
seen  him  with  me  own  two  eyes  when  me  an'  Winnie — Mrs.  Gal- 
licker, Mr.  Davoren,  aforesaid  as  appears  in  the  letter — was  havin' 
a  chat  be  the  fire. 

1  Ourselves  alone. 


THE    SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  267 

Minnie.  You'd  never  think  it  was  in  him  to  do  it. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  An'  to  think  that  the  likes  ov  such  a  man  is  to 
have  the  sowl-case  worried  out  ov  him  by  a  gang  o'  tramps; 
but  it's  in  good  hands  now,  an'  instead  ov  them  settlin'  yous,  Mr. 
Gallicker,  it's  yous  'ill  settle  them.  Give  the  letter  to  Mr.  Davo- 
ren,  an'  we'll  be  goin'. 

(  gallogher  gives  the  letter  to  davoren.  ) 

Mrs.  Henderson  [moving  towards  the  door].  I  hope  you  an'  Mr. 
Shields  is  gettin'  on  all  right  together,  Mr.  Davoren. 

Davoren.  Fairly  well,  thanks,  Mrs.  Henderson.  We  don't  see  much 
of  each  other.  He's  out  during  the  day,  and  I'm  usually  out  dur- 
ing the  evening. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  I'm  afraid  he'll  never  make  a  fortune  out  ov  what 
he's  sellin'.  He'll  talk  above  an  hour  over  a  pennorth  o'  pins.  Ev- 
ery time  he  comes  to  our  place  I  buy  a  package  o'  hairpins 
from  him  to  give  him  a  little  encouragement.  I  'clare  to  God  I 
have  as  many  pins  now  as  ud  make  a  wire  mattress  for  a  dou- 
ble bed.  All  the  young  divils  about  the  place  are  beginnin'  to 
make  a  jeer  ov  him,  too;  I  gave  one  ov  them  a  mallavogin'  the 
other  day  for  callin'  hin>  ouT  hairpins! 

Mr.  Gallogher  [venturing  an  opinion].  Mr.  Shields  is  a  man  of  ex- 
ceptional mental  capacity,  and  is  worthy  of  a  more  dignified  po- 
sition. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  Them  words  is  true,  Mr.  Gallicker,  and  they  aren't. 
For  to  be  wise  is  to  be  a  fool,  an'  to  be  a  fool  is  to  be  wise. 

Mr.  Gallogher  [with  deprecating  tolerance].  Oh,  Mrs.  Henderson, 
that's  a  parrotox. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  It  may  be  what  a  parrot  talks,  or  a  blackbird, 
or,  for  the  matter  of  that,  a  lark — but  it's  what  Julia  Henderson 
thinks,  any  .  .  .  whisht,  is  that  a  Stop  Press? 

(Outside  is  heard  the  shriek  of  a  newsboy  calling  'Stop  Press.') 

Mrs.  Henderson.  Run  out,  Tommy,  an'  get  it  till  we  see  what  it  is. 

Tommy.  I  haven't  got  a  make. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  I  never  seen  you  any  other  way,  an'  you'll  be  al- 
ways the  same  if  you  keep  follyin'  your  Spearmints,  an'  your 


268  SEAN    OCASEY 

Bumble  Bees  an'  your  Night  Patrols.  [Shouting  to  some  one  out- 
side] Is  that  a  Stop  Press,  Mrs.  Grigson? 

Voice  outside.  Yis;  an  ambush  out  near  Knocksedan. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  That's  the  stuff  to  give  them.  [Loudly]  Was  there 
anybody  hurted? 

Voice  outside.  One  poor  man  killed — some  chap  named  Maguire, 
the  paper  says. 

Davoren  [agitated].  What  name  did  she  say? 

Minnie.  Maguire;  did  you  know  him,  Mr.  Davoren? 

Davoren.  Yes — no,  no;  I  didn't  know  him,  no,  I  didn't  know  him, 
Minnie. 

Minnie.  I  wonder  is  it  the  Maguire  that  does  be  with  Mr.  Shields? 

Davoren.  Oh  no,  not  at  all,  it  couldn't  be. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  Knocksedan?  That's  in  the  County  Sligo,  now,  or 
I'm  greatly  mistaken — am  I  right,  Mr.  Gallicker,  or  am  I  wrong? 

Mr.  Gallogher  [who  knows  perfectly  well  that  it  is  in  the  County 
Dublin,  but  dare  not  correct  mrs.  Henderson].  That's  where  it  is 
— Knocksedan,  that's  the  very  identical  county. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  Well,  I  think  we  better  be  makin'  a  move,  Mr. 
Gallicker;  we've  kep  Mr.  Davoren  long  enough,  an'  you'll  find 
the  letter'll  be  in  good  hans. 

(mr.  gallogher  and  mrs.  Henderson  move  towards  the  door,  which  when 
he  reaches  it  mr.  gallogher  grips,  hesitates,  buttons  his  coat,  and  turns  to 

DAVOREN.  ) 

Mr.  Gallogher.  Mr.  Davoren,  sir,  on  behalf  ov  meself,  James  Gal- 
licker, an'  Winifred,  Mrs.  Gallicker,  wife  ov  the  said  James,  I 
beg  to  offer,  extend  an'  furnish  our  humble  an'  hearty  thanks  for 
your  benevolent  goodness  in  interferin'  in  the  matter  specified, 
particularated  an'  expanded  upon  in  the  letter,  mandamus  or 
schedule,  as  the  case  may  be.  An'  let  me  interpretate  to  you  on 
behalf  ov  meself  an'  Winifred  Gallicker,  that  whenever  you  visit 
us  you  will  be  supernally  positive  ov  a  hundred  thousand  wel- 
comes— ahem. 

Mrs.  Henderson  [beaming  with  pride  for  the  genius  of  her  friend]. 
There's   a  man  for  you,   Mr.   Davoren!   You  forgot  to  mention 


THE    SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  269 

Biddy  and  Shaun,  Mr.  Gallicker — [to  davoren]  his  two  children 
— it's  himself  has  them  trained  well.  It  ud  make  your  heart  thrill 
like  an  alarm  clock  to  hear  them  singin'  'Faith  ov  Our  Fathers' 
an'  'Wrap  the  Green  Flag  Roun'  Me.' 

Mr.  Gallogher  [half  apologetically  and  half  proudly].  Faith  an' 
Fatherland,  Mrs.  Henderson,  Faith  and  Fatherland. 

Mrs.  Henderson.  Well,  good-day,  Mr.  Davoren,  an'  God  keep  you 
an'  strengthen  all  the  men  that  are  fightin'  for  Ireland's  freedom. 

( She  and  gallogher  go  out. ) 

Tommy.  I  must  be  off  too;  so-long,  Mr.  Davoren,  an'  remember 
that  Tommy  Owens  only  waits  the  call. 

( He  goes  out  too. ) 

Davoren.  Well,  Minnie,  we're  by  ourselves  once  more. 

Minnie.  Wouldn't  that  Tommy  Owens  give  you  the  sick — only 
waitin'  to  hear  the  call!  Ah,  then  it'll  take  all  the  brass  bands  in 
the  country  to  blow  the  call  before  Tommy  Owens  ud  hear  it. 
[She  looks  at  her  wristlet  watch.]  Sacred  Heart,  I've  only  ten 
minutes  to  get  back  to  work!  I'll  have  to  fly!  Quick,  Mr.  Davoren, 
write  me  name  in  typewritin'  before  I  go — just  'Minnie.' 

(  davoren  types  the  name. ) 

Minnie  [shyly  but  determinedly].  Now  yours  underneath — just 
'Donal.'  [davoren  does  so.]  Minnie,  Donal;  Donal,  Minnie;  good- 
bye, now. 

Davoren.   Here,   what  about  your  milk? 

Minnie.  I  haven't  time  to  take  it  now.  [Slyly]  I'll  come  for  it  this 
evening. 

( They  both  go  towards  the  door. ) 

Davoren.  Minnie,  the  kiss  I  didn't  get. 

Minnie.  What  kiss? 

Davoren.  When  we  were  interrupted;  you  know,  you  little  rogue, 
come,  just  one. 


270  SEAN   OCASEY 

Minnie.  Quick,  then. 

(davoren  kisses  her  and  she  runs  out.  davoren  returns  thoughtfully  to  the 
table. ) 

Davoren.  Minnie,  Donal;  Donal,  Minnie.  Very  pretty,  but  very  ig- 
norant. A  gunman  on  the  run!  Be  careful,  be  careful,  Donal  Dav- 
oren. But  Minnie  is  attracted  to  the  idea,  and  I  am  attracted  to 
Minnie.  And  what  danger  can  there  be  in  being  the  shadow  of 
a  gunman? 


Act  II 

The  same  as  in  Act  I.  But  it  is  now  night,  seumas  is  in  the  bed  that 
runs  along  the  wall  at  back,  davoren  is  seated  near  the  fire,  to 
which  he  has  drawn  the  table.  He  has  a  fountain-pen  in  his  hand, 
and  is  attracted  in  thought  towards  the  moon,  which  is  shining  in 
through  the  windows.  An  open  writing-pad  is  on  the  table  at  dav- 
oren's  elbow.  The  bag  left  by  maguire  is  still  in  the  same  place. 

Davoren: 

The  cold  chaste  moon,  the  Queen  of  Heaven's  bright  isles, 
Who  makes  all  beautiful  on  which  she  smiles; 
That  wandering  shrine  of  soft  yet  icy  flame, 
Which  ever  is  transformed  yet  still  the  same. 

Ah,  Shelley,  Shelley,  you  yourself  were  a  lovely  human  orb  shin- 
ing through  clouds  of  whirling  human  dust.  'She  makes  all  beauti- 
ful on  which  she  smiles.'  Ah,  Shelley,  she  couldn't  make  this  thrice 
accursed  room  beautiful.  Her  beams  of  beauty  only  make  its  horrors 
more  full  of  horrors  still.  There  is  an  ugliness  that  can  be  made 
beautiful,  and  there  is  an  ugliness  that  can  only  be  destroyed,  and 
this  is  part  of  that  ugliness.  Donal,  Donal,  I  fear  your  last  state  is 
worse  than  your  first. 

( He  lilts  a  verse,  which  he  writes  on  the  pad  before  him. ) 

When  night  advances  through  the  sky  with  slow 
And  solemn  tread, 


THE    SHADOW   OF    A   GUNMAN  271 

The  queenly  moon  looks  down  on  life  below, 

As  if  she  read 
Man's  soul,  and  in  her  scornful  silence  said: 

All  beautiful  and  happiest  things  are  dead. 

Seumas  [sleepily].  Donal,  Donal,  are  you  awake?  [A  pause.] 
Donal,  Donal,  are  you  asleep? 

Davoren.  I'm  neither  awake  nor  asleep:  I'm  thinking. 

Seumas.  I  was  just  thinkin',  too — I  was  just  thinkin',  too,  that 
Maguire  is  sorry  now  that  he  didn't  come  with  me  instead  of  go- 
ing to  Knocksedan.  He  caught  something  besides  butterflies — 
two  of  them  he  got,  one  through  each  lung. 

Davoren.  The  Irish  people  are  very  fond  of  turning  a  serious  thing 
into  a  joke;  that  was  a  serious  affair — for  poor  Maguire. 

Seumas  [defensively].  Why  didn't  he  do  what  he  arranged  to  do? 
Did  he  think  of  me  when  he  was  goin'  to  Knocksedan?  How 
can  he  expect  me  to  have  any  sympathy  with  him  now? 

Davoren.  He  can  hardly  expect  that  now  that  he's  dead. 

Seumas.  The  Republicans  '11  do  a  lot  for  him,  now.  How  am  I  goin* 
to  get  back  the  things  he  has  belongin'  to  me,  either?  There's 
some  of  them  in  that  bag  over  there,  but  that's  not  quarter  of 
what  he  had;  an'  I  don't  know  where  he  was  stoppin',  for  he  left 
his  old  digs  a  week  or  so  ago — I  suppose  there's  nothing  to  be 
said  about  my  loss;  I'm  to  sing  dumb. 

Davoren.  I  hope  there's  nothing  else  in  the  bag,  beside  thread  and 
hairpins. 

Seumas.  What  else  ud  be  in  it?  ...  I  can't  sleep  properly  ever 
since  they  put  on  this  damned  curfew.  A  minute  ago  I  thought 
I  heard  some  of  the  oul'  ones  standin'  at  the  door;  they  won't 
be  satisfied  till  they  bring  a  raid  on  the  house;  an'  they  never  be- 
gin to  stand  at  the  door  till  after  curfew.  .  .  .  Are  you  gone  to 
bed,  Donal? 

Davoren.  No;  I'm  trying  to  finish  this  poem. 

Seumas  [sitting  up  in  bed].  If  I  was  you  I'd  give  that  game  up;  it 
doesn't  pay  a  working-man  to  write  poetry.  I  don't  profess  to 
know  much  about  poetry — I  don't  profess  to  know  much  about 
poetry — about  poetry — I  don't  know  much  about  the  pearly  glint 
of  the  morning  dew,  or  the  damask  sweetness  of  the  rare  wild 


272  SEAN    OCASEY 

rose,  or  the  subtle  greenness  of  the  serpent's  eye — but  I  think  a 
poet's  claim  to  greatness  depends  upon  his  power  to  put  passion 
in  the  common  people. 

Davoren.  Ay,  passion  to  howl  for  his  destruction.  The  People! 
Damn  the  people!  They  live  in  the  abyss,  the  poet  lives  on  the 
mountain-top;  to  the  people  there  is  no  mystery  of  colour:  it  is 
simply  the  scarlet  coat  of  the  soldier;  the  purple  vestments  of  a 
priest;  the  green  banner  of  a  party;  the  brown  or  blue  overalls  of 
industry.  To  them  the  might  of  design  is  a  three-roomed  house  or 
a  capacious  bed.  To  them  beauty  is  for  sale  in  a  butcher's  shop. 
To  the  people  the  end  of  life  is  the  life  created  for  them;  to  the 
poet  the  end  of  life  is  the  life  that  he  creates  for  himself;  life  has 
a  stifling  grip  upon  the  people's  throat — it  is  the  poet's  musician. 
The  poet  ever  strives  to  save  the  people;  the  people  ever  strive 
to  destroy  the  poet.  The  people  view  life  through  creeds, 
through  customs,  and  through  necessities;  the  poet  views  creeds, 
customs,  and  necessities  through  life.  The  people  .  .  . 

Seumas  [suddenly,  and  with  a  note  of  anxiety  in  his  voice]. 
Whisht!  What's  that?  Is  that  the  tappin'  again? 

Davoren.  Tappin'.  What  tappin'? 

Seumas  [in  an  awed  whisper].  This  is  the  second  night  I  heard  that 
tappin'!  I  believe  it  bodes  no  good  to  me.  There,  do  you  hear  it 
again — a  quiet,  steady,  mysterious  tappin'  on  the  wall. 

Davoren.  I  hear  no  tappin'. 

Seumas.  It  ud  be  better  for  me  if  you  did.  It's  a  sure  sign  of  death 
when  nobody  hears  it  but  meself . 

Davoren.  Death!  What  the  devil  are  you  talking  about,  man? 

Seumas.  I  don't  like  it  at  all;  there's  always  something  like  that 
heard  when  one  of  our  family  dies. 

Davoren.  I  don't  know  about  that;  but  I  know  there's  a  hell  of  a  lot 
of  things  heard  when  one  of  your  family  lives. 

Seumas.  God  between  us  an'  all  harm!  Thank  God  I'm  where  I 
ought  to  be — in  bed.  .  .  .  It's  always  best  to  be  in  your  proper 
place  when  such  things  happen — Sacred  Heart!  There  it  is 
again;  do  you  not  hear  it  now? 


THE   SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  273 

Davoren.  Ah,  for  God's  sake  go  asleep. 

Seumas.  Do  you  believe  in  nothing? 

Davoren.  I  don't  believe  in  tappin'. 

Seumas.  Whisht,  it's  stopped  again;  I'll  try  to  go  asleep  for  fear 
it  ud  begin  again. 

Davoren.  Ay,  do;  and  if  it  starts  again  I'll  be  sure  to  waken  you  up. 
( A  pause. ) 

Seumas.  It's  very  cold  to-night.  Do  you  feel  cold? 

Davoren.  I  thought  you  were  goin'  asleep? 

Seumas.  The  bloody  cold  won't  let  me.  .  .  .  You'd  want  a  pair  of 
pyjamas  on  you.  [A  pause.]  Did  you  ever  wear  pyjamas,  Donal? 

Davoren.  No,  no,  no. 

Seumas.  What  kind  of  stuff  is  in  them? 

Davoren  [angrily].  Oh,  it  depends  on  the  climate;  in  India,  silk;  in 
Italy,  satin;  and  the  Eskimo  wears  them  made  from  the  skin  of  the 
Polar  bear. 

Seumas  [emphatically].  If  you  take  my  advice  you'll  get  into  bed- 
that  poem  is  beginnin'  to  get  on  your  nerves. 

Davoren  [extinguishing  the  candle  with  a  vicious  blow].  Right, 
I'm  going  to  bed  now,  so  you  can  shut  up. 

( Visibility  is  still  maintained  from  the  light  of  the  moon. ) 

Seumas.  I'was  goin'  to  say  something  when  you  put  out  the  light — 
what's  this  it  was? — um,  um,  oh,  ay:  when  I  was  comin'  in  this 
evenin'  I  saw  Minnie  Powell  goin'  out.  If  I  was  you  I  wouldn't 
have  that  one  comin'  in  here. 

Davoren.  She  comes  in;  I  don't  bring  her  in,  do  I? 

Seumas.  The  oul'  ones'll  be  talkin',  an'  once  they  start  you  don't 
know  how  it'll  end.  Surely  a  man  that  has  read  Shelley  couldn't 
be  interested  in  an  ignorant  little  bitch  that  thinks  of  nothin' 
but  jazz  dances,  fox-trots,  picture  theatres  an'  dress. 


274  SEAN   OCASEY 

Davoren.  Right  glad  I  am  that  she  thinks  of  dress,  for  she  thinks  of 
it  in  the  right  way,  and  makes  herself  a  pleasant  picture  to  the 
eye.  Education  has  been  wasted  on  many  persons,  teaching 
them  to  talk  only,  but  leaving  with  them  all  their  primitive  in- 
stincts. Had  poor  Minnie  received  an  education  she  would  have 
been  an  artist.  She  is  certainly  a  pretty  girl.  I'm  sure  she  is  a 
good  girl,  and  I  believe  she  is  a  brave  girl. 

Seumas.  A  Helen  of  Troy  come  to  live  in  a  tenement!  You  think  a 
lot  about  her  simply  because  she  thinks  a  lot  about  you,  an' 
she  thinks  a  lot  about  you  because  she  looks  upon  you  as  a  hero 
— a  kind  o'  Paris  .  .  .  she'd  give  the  world  an'  all  to  be  gaddin' 
about  with  a  gunman.  An'  what  ecstasy  it  ud  give  her  if  after 
a  bit  you  were  shot  or  hanged;  she'd  be  able  to  go  about  then- 
like  a  good  many  more — singin',  'I  do  not  mourn  me  darlin'  lost,  for 
he  fell  in  his  Jacket  Green.'  An'  then,  for  a  year  an'  a  day,  all 
round  her  hat  she'd  wear  the  Tri-coloured  Ribbon  O,  till  she'd 
pick  up  an'  marry  some  one  else — possibly  a  British  Tommy  with 
a  Mons  Star.  An'  as  for  bein'  brave,  it's  easy  to  be  that  when 
you've  no  cause  for  cowardice;  I  wouldn't  care  to  have  me  life 
dependin'  on  brave  little  Minnie  Powell — she  wouldn't  sacrifice 
a  jazz  dance  to  save  it. 

Davoren  [sitting  on  the  bed  and  taking  off  his  coat  and  vest,  pre- 
paratory to  going  to  bed].  There;  that's  enough  about  Minnie 
Powell.  I'm  afraid  I'll  soon  have  to  be  on  the  run  out  of  this 
house,  too;  it  is  becoming  painfully  obvious  that  there  is  no 
peace  to  be  found  here. 

Seumas.  Oh,  this  house  is  all  right;  barrin'  the  children,  it  does  be 
quiet  enough.  Wasn't  there  children  in  the  last  place  you  were  in 
too? 

Davoren.  Ay,  ten;  [viciously]  and  they  were  all  over  forty. 
(  A  pause  as  davoren  is  removing  his  collar  and  tie. ) 

Seumas.  Everything  is  very  quiet  now;  I  wqnder  what  time  is  it? 

Davoren.  The  village  cock  hath  thrice  done  salutation  to  the  morn. 

Seumas.  Shakespeare,  Richard  the  III,  Act  Five,  Scene  III.  It  was 
Ratcliffe  said  that  to  Richard  just  before  the  battle  of  Bosworth. 
.  .  .  How  peaceful  the  heavens  look  now  with  the  moon  in  the 


THE    SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  275 

middle;  you'd  never  think  there  were  men  prowlin'  about  tryin' 
to  shoot  each  other.  I  don't  know  how  a  man  who  has  shot  any 
one  can  sleep  in  peace  at  night. 

Davoren.  There's  plenty  of  men  can't  sleep  in  peace  at  night  now 
unless  they  know  that  they  have  shot  somebody. 

Seumas.  I  wish  to  God  it  was  all  over.  The  country  is  gone  mad. 
Instead  of  counting  their  beads  now  they're  countin'  bullets; 
their  Hail  Marys  and  paternosters  are  burstin'  bombs — burstin' 
bombs  an'  the  rattle  of  machine-guns;  petrol  is  their  holy  water; 
their  Mass  is  a  burnin'  buildin';  their  De  Profundis  is  'The  Soldiers' 
Song,'  *  an'  their  creed  is,  I  believe  in  the  gun  almighty,  maker  of 
heaven  an'  earth — an'  it's  all  for  'the  glory  o'  God  an'  the  hon- 
our o'  Ireland.' 

Davoren.  I  remember  the  time  when  you  yourself  believed  in 
nothing  but  the  gun. 

Seumas.  Ay,  when  there  wasn't  a  gun  in  the  country;  I've  a  differ- 
ent opinion  now  when  there's  nothin'  but  guns  in  the  country. 
.  .  .  An'  you  daren't  open  your  mouth,  for  Kathleen  ni  Houli- 
han is  very  different  now  to  the  woman  who  used  to  play  the 
harp  an'  sing  'Weep  on,  weep  on,  your  hour  is  past',  for  she's  a 
ragin'  divil  now,  an'  if  you  only  look  crooked  at  her  you're  sure 
of  a  punch  in  th'  eye.  But  this  is  the  way  I  look  at  it — I  look  at  it 
this  way:  You're  not  goin' — you're  not  goin'  to  beat  the  British  Em- 
pire— the  British  Empire,  by  shootin'  an  occasional  Tommy  at 
the  corner  of  an  occasional  street.  Besides,  when  the  Tommies 
have  the  wind  up — when  the  Tommies  have  the  wind  up  they 
let  bang  at  everything  they  see — they  don't  give  a  God's  curse 
who  they  plug. 

Davoren.  Maybe  they  ought  to  get  down  off  the  lorry  and  run  to  the 
Records  Office  to  find  out  a  man's  pedigree  before  they  plug  him. 

Seumas.  It's  the  civilians  that  suffer;  when  there's  an  ambush  they 
don't  know  where  to  run.  Shot  in  the  back  to  save  the  British 
Empire,  an'  shot  in  the  breast  to  save  the  soul  of  Ireland.  I'm  a 
Nationalist  meself,  right  enough — a  Nationalist  right  enough,  but 
all  the  same — I'm  a  Nationalist  right  enough;  I  believe  in  the  free- 
dom of  Ireland,  an'  that  England  has  no  right  to  be  here,  but  I 
draw  the  line  when  I  hear  the  gunmen  blowin'  about  dyin'  for 

1  Now  the  National  anthem  of  the  Republic  of  Ireland,  written  by  Peadar  Kearney. 


276  SEAN   OCASEY 

the  people,  when  it's  the  people  that  are  dyin'  for  the  gunmen! 
With  all  due  respect  to  the  gunmen,  I  don't  want  them  to  die 
for  me. 

Davoren.  Not  likely;  you  object  to  any  one  of  them  deliberately  dy- 
ing for  you  for  fear  that  one  of  these  days  you  might  accidentally 
die  for  one  of  them. 

Seumas.  You're  one  of  the  brave  fellows  that  doesn't  fear  death. 

Davoren.  Why  should  I  be  afraid  of  it?  It's  all  the  same  to  me  how 
it  comes,  where  it  comes,  or  when  it  comes.  I  leave  fear  of 
death  to  the  people  that  are  always  praying  for  eternal  life; 
'Death  is  here  and  death  is  there,  death  is  busy  everywhere.' 

Seumas.  Ay,  in  Ireland.  Thanks  be  to  God  I'm  a  daily  communi- 
cant. There's  a  great  comfort  in  religion;  it  makes  a  man  strong 
in  time  of  trouble  an'  brave  in  time  of  danger.  No  man  need  be 
afraid  with  a  crowd  of  angels  round  him;  thanks  to  God  for  His 
Holy  religion! 

Davoren.  You're  welcome  to  your  angels;  philosophy  is  mine;  phi- 
losophy that  makes  the  coward  brave;  the  sufferer  defiant;  the 
weak  strong;  the  .  .  . 

(A  volley  of  shots  is  heard  in  a  lane  that  runs  parallel  with  the  wall  of  the 
back-yard.  Religion  and  philosophy  are  forgotten  in  the  violent  fear  of  a  nervous 
equality. ) 

Seumas.  Jesus,  Mary,  an'  Joseph,  what's  that? 

Davoren.  My  God,  that's  very  close. 

Seumas.  Is  there  no  Christianity  at  all  left  in  the  country? 

Davoren.  Are  we  ever  again  going  to  know  what  peace  and  security 
are? 

Seumas.  If  this  continues  much  longer  I'll  be  nothing  but  a  gal- 
vanic battery  o'  shocks. 

Davoren.  It's  dangerous  to  be  in  and  it's  equally  dangerous  to  be 
out. 

Seumas.  This  is  a  dangerous  spot  to  be  in  with  them  windows; 
you  couldn't  tell  the  minute  a  bullet  ud  come  in  through  one 
of  them — through  one  of  them,  an'  hit  the — hit  the — an'  hit 
the  .  .  . 


THE    SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  277 

Davoren  [irritably].  Hit  the  what,  man? 

Seumas.  The  wall. 

Davoren.  Couldn't  you  say  that  at  first  without  making  a  song  about 
it? 

Seumas  [suddenly].  I  don't  believe  there's  horses  in  the  stable  at 
all. 

Davoren.  Stable!  What  stable  are  you  talking  about? 

Seumas.  There's  a  stable  at  the  back  of  the  house  with  an  entrance 
from  the  yard;  it's  used  as  a  carpenter's  shop.  Didn't  you  often 
hear  the  peculiar  noises  at  night?  They  give  out  that  it's  the 
horses  shakin'  their  chains. 

Davoren.  And  what  is  it? 

Seumas.  Oh,  there  I'll  leave  you! 

Davoren.  Surely  you  don't  mean  .  .  . 

Seumas.  But  I  do  mean  it. 

Davoren.  You  do  mean  what? 

Seumas.  I  wouldn't — I  wouldn't  be  surprised — wouldn't  be  surprised 
— surprised  .  .  . 

Davoren.  Yes,  yes,   surprised — go   on. 

Seumas.  I  wouldn't  be  surprised  if  they  were  manufacturin'  bombs 
there. 

Davoren.  My  God,  that's  a  pleasant  contemplation!  The  sooner  I'm 
on  the  run  out  of  this  house  the  better.  How  is  it  you  never  said 
anything  about  this  before? 

Seumas.  Well — well,  I  didn't  want — I  didn't  want  to — to  .  .  . 

Davoren.  You  didn't  want  to  what? 

Seumas.  I  didn't  want  to  frighten  you. 

Davoren  [sarcastically].  You're  bloody  kind! 

( A  knock  at  the  door;  the  voice  of  mrs.  grigson  heard. ) 

Mrs.  Grigson.  Are  you  asleep,  Mr.  Shields? 

Seumas.  What  the  devil  can  she  want  at  this  hour  of  the  night? 
[To  mrs.  grigson]  No,  Mrs.  Grigson,  what  is  it? 


278  SEAN    OCASEY 

Mrs.  Grigson  [opening  the  door  and  standing  at  the  threshold.  She  is 
a  woman  about  forty,  but  looks  much  older.  She  is  one  of  the 
cave-dwellers  of  Dublin,  living  as  she  does  in  a  tenement 
kitchen,  to  which  only  an  occasional  sickly  beam  of  sunlight 
filters  through  a  grating  in  the  yard;  the  consequent  general  dim- 
ness of  her  abode  has  given  her  a  habit  of  peering  through  half- 
closed  eyes.  She  is  slovenly  dressed  in  an  old  skirt  and  bodice; 
her  face  is  grimy,  not  because  her  habits  are  dirty — for,  although 
she  is  untidy,  she  is  a  clean  woman — but  because  of  the  smoky 
atmosphere  of  her  room.  Her  hair  is  constantly  falling  over 
her  face,  which  she  is  as  frequently  removing  by  rapid  move- 
ments of  her  right  hand].  He  hasn't  turned  up  yet,  an  I'm  stiff 
with  the  cold  waitin'  for  him. 

Seumas.  Mr.  Grigson,  is  it? 

Mrs.  Grigson.  Adolphus,  Mr.  Shields,  after  takin'  his  tea  at  six 
o'clock — no,  I'm  tellin'  a  lie — it  was  before  six,  for  I  remember  the 
Angelus  was  ringin'  out  an'  we  sittin'  at  the  table — after  takin'  his 
tea  he  went  out  for  a  breath  o'  fresh  air,  an'  I  haven't  seen  sign 
or  light  of  him  since.  'Clare  to  God  me  heart  is  up  in  me 
mouth,  thinkin'  he  might  be  shot  be  the  Black  an'  Tans. 

Seumas.  Aw,  he'll  be  all  right,  Mrs.  Grigson.  You  ought  to  go  to 
bed  an'  rest  yourself;  it's  always  the  worst  that  comes  into  a 
body's  mind;  go  to  bed,  Mrs.  Grigson,  or  you'll  catch  your  death 
of  cold. 

Mrs.  Grigson.  I'm  afraid  to  go  to  bed,  Mr.  Shields,  for  I'm  always  in 
dread  that  some  night  or  another,  when  he  has  a  sup  taken,  he'll 
fall  down  the  kitchen  stairs  an'  break  his  neck.  Not  that  I'd  be 
any  the  worse  if  anything  did  happen  to  him,  for  you  know  the 
sort  he  is,  Mr.  Shields;  sure  he  has  me  heart  broke. 

Seumas.  Don't  be  downhearted,  Mrs.  Grigson;  he  may  take  a 
thought  one  of  these  days  an'  turn  over  a  new  leaf. 

Mrs.  Grigson.  Sorra  leaf  Adolphus'll  ever  turn  over,  he's  too  far 
gone  in  the  horns  for  that  now.  Sure  no  one  ud  mind  him  takin'  a 
pint  or  two,  if  he'd  stop  at  that,  but  he  won't;  nothin'  could  fill  him 
with  beer,  an'  no  matter  how  much  he  may  have  taken,  when 
he's  taken  more  he'll  always  say,  'Here's  the  first  today.' 

Davoren  [to  seumas].  Christ!  Is  she  going  to  stop  talking  there  all 
the  night? 


THE   SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  279 

Seumas.  'Sh,  she'll  hear  you;  right  enough,  the  man  has  the  poor 
woman's  heart  broke. 

Davoren.  And  because  he  has  her  heart  broken,  she's  to  have  the 
privilege  of  breaking  everybody  else's. 

Mrs.  Grigson.  Mr.  Shields. 

Seumas.  Yes? 

Mrs.  Grigson.  Do  the  insurance  companies  pay  if  a  man  is  shot 
after  curfew? 

Seumas.  Well,  now,  that's  a  thing  I  couldn't  say,  Mrs.  Grigson. 

Mrs.  Grigson  [plaintively].  Isn't  he  a  terrible  man  to  be  takin' 
such  risks,  an'  not  knowin'  what'll  happen  to  him.  He  knows  them 
Societies  only  want  an  excuse  to  do  people  out  of  their  money — is 
it  after  one,  now,  Mr.  Shields? 

Seumas.  Aw,  it  must  be  after  one,  Mrs.  Grigson. 

Mrs.  Grigson  [emphatically].  Ah,  then,  if  I  was  a  young  girl  again 
I'd  think  twice  before  gettin'  married.  Whisht!  There's  some- 
body now — it's  him,  I  know  be  the  way  he's  fumblin'. 

( She  goes  out  a  little  way.  Stumbling  steps  are  heard  in  the  hall. ) 

Mrs.  Grigson  [outside].  Is  that  you,  Dolphie,  dear? 

(After  a  few  moments  adolphus,  with  mrs.  grigson  holding  his  arm,  stum- 
bles into  the  room. ) 

Mrs.  Grigson.  Dolphie,  dear,  mind  yourself. 

Adolphus  [he  is  a  man  of  forty-five,  but  looks  relatively  much 
younger  than  mrs.  grigson.  His  occupation  is  that  of  a  solicitors 
clerk.  He  has  all  the  appearance  of  being  well  fed;  and,  in  fact,  he 
gets  most  of  the  nourishment,  mrs.  grigson  getting  just  enough 
to  give  her  strength  to  do  the  necessary  work  of  the  household. 
On  account  of  living  most  of  his  life  out  of  the  kitchen,  his 
complexion  is  fresh,  and  his  movements,  even  when  sober,  are 
livelier  than  those  of  his  wife.  He  is  comfortably  dressed;  heavy 
top-coat,  soft  trilby  hat,  a  fancy  coloured  scarf  about  his  neck, 
and  he  carries  an  umbrella].  I'm  all  right;  do  you  see  anything 
wrong  with  me? 


280  SEAN    OCASEY 

Mrs.  Grigson.  Of  course  you're  all  right,  dear;  there's  no  one 
mindin'  you. 

Adolphus  Grigson.  Mindin'  me,  is  it,  mindin'  me?  He'd  want  to  be 
a  good  thing  that  ud  mind  me.  There's  a  man  here — a  man,  mind 
you,  afraid  av  nothin' — not  in  this  bloody  house  anyway. 

Mrs.  Grigson  [imploringly].  Come  on  down-stairs,  Dolphie,  dear; 
sure  there's  not  one  in  the  house  ud  say  a  word  to  you. 

Adolphus  Grigson.  Say  a  word  to  me,  is  it?  He'd  want  to  be  a  good 
thing  that  ud  say  anything  to  Dolphus  Grigson.  [Loudhj]  Is  there 
any  one  wants  to  say  anything  to  Dolphus  Grigson?  If  there  is, 
he's  here — a  man,  too — there's  no  blottin'  it  out — a  man. 

Mrs.  Grigson.  You'll  wake  everybody  in  the  house;  can't  you  speak 
quiet. 

Adolphus  Grigson  [more  loudly  still].  What  do  I  care  for  anybody 
in  the  house?  Are  they  keepin'  me;  are  they  givin'  me  anything? 
When  they're  keepin'  Grigson  it'll  be  time  enough  for  them  to 
talk.  [With  a  shout]  I  can  tell  them  Adolphus  Grigson  wasn't 
born  in  a  bottle! 

Mrs.  Grigson  [tearfully].  Why  do  you  talk  like  that,  dear?  We  all 
know  you  weren't  born  in  a  bottle. 

Adolphus  Grigson.  There's  some  of  them  in  this  house  think  that 
Grigson  was  born  in  a  bottle. 

Davoren  [to  seumas].  A  most  appropriate  place  for  him  to  be  born 
in. 

Mrs.  Grigson.  Come  on  down  to  bed,  now,  an'  you  can  talk  about 
them  in  the  mornin'. 

Grigson.  I'll  talk  about  them,  now;  do  you  think  I'm  afraid  of 
them?  Dolphus  Grigson's  afraid  av  nothin',  creepin'  or  walkin', — 
if  there's  any  one  in  the  house  thinks  he's  lit  to  take  a  fall  out  av 
Adolphus  Grigson,  he's  here — a  man;  they'll  find  that  Grigson's 
no  soft  thing. 

Davoren.  Ah  me,  alas!  Pain,  pain  ever,  for  ever. 

Mrs.  Grigson.  Dolphie,  dear,  poor  Mr.  Davoren  wants  to  go  to  bed. 

Davoren.  Oh,  she's  terribly  anxious  about  poor  Mr.  Davoren,  all  of 
a  sudden. 


THE    SHADOW   OF    A   GUNMAN  281 

Grigson  [stumbling  towards  davoren,  and  holding  out  his  hand]. 
Davoren!  He's  a  man.  Leave  it  there,  mate.  You  needn't  be 
afraid  av  Dolphus  Grigson;  there  never  was  a  drop  av  informer's 
blood  in  the  whole  family  av  Grigson.  I  don't  know  what  you  are 
or  what  you  think,  but  you're  a  man,  an'  not  like  some  of  the 
gougers  in  this  house,  that  ud  hang  you.  Not  referrin'  to  you, 
Mr.  Shields. 

Mrs.  Grigson.   Oh,  you're  not  deludin'  to   Mr.   Shields. 

Seumas.  I  know  that,  Mr.  Grigson;  go  on  down,  now,  with  Mrs. 
Grigson,  an'  have  a  sleep. 

Grigson.  I  tie  meself  to  no  woman's  apron  strings,  Mr.  Shields;  I 
know  how  to  keep  Mrs.  Grigson  in  her  place;  I  have  the  authority 
of  the  Bible  for  that.  I  know  the  Bible  from  cover  to  cover, 
Mr.  Davoren,  an'  that's  more  than  some  in  this  house  could  say. 
And  what  does  the  Holy  Scripture  say  about  woman?  It  says, 
'The  woman  shall  be  subject  to  her  husband,'  an'  I'll  see  that 
Mrs.  Grigson  keeps  the  teachin'  av  the  Holy  Book  in  the  letter 
an'  in  the  spirit.  If  you're  ever  in  trouble,  Mr.  Davoren,  an'  Grig- 
son can  help — I'm  your  man — have  you  me? 

Davoren.  I  have  you,  Mr.  Grigson,  I  have  you. 

Grigson.  Right;  I'm  an  Orangeman,  an'  I'm  not  ashamed  av  it,  an' 
I'm  not  afraid  av  it,  but  I  can  feel  for  a  true  man,  all  the  same — 
have  you  got  me,  Mr.  Shields? 

Seumas.  Oh,  we  know  you  well,  Mr.  Grigson;  many  a  true  Irishman 
was  a  Protestant — Tone,  Emmet  an'  Parnell. 

'Grigson.  Mind  you,  I'm  not  sayin'  as  I  agree  with  them  you've 
mentioned,  Mr.  Shields,  for  the  Bible  forbids  it,  an'  Adolphus 
Grigson  '11  always  abide  be  the  Bible.  Fear  God  an'  honour  the 
King — that's  written  in  Holy  Scripture,  an'  there's  no  blottin'  it 
out.  [Pulling  a  bottle  out  of  his  pocket]  But  here,  Mr.  Davoren, 
have  a  drink,  just  to  show  there's  no  coolness. 

Davoren.  No,  no,  Mr.  Grigson,  it's  too  late  now  to  take  anything. 
Go  on  down  with  Mrs.  Grigson,  and  we  can  have  a  chat  in  the 
morning. 

Grigson.  Sure  you  won't  have  a  drink? 

Davoren.  Quite  sure — thanks  all  the  same. 


282  SEAN   OCASEY 

Grigson  [drinking].  Here's  the  first  today!  To  all  true  men,  even  if 
they  were  born  in  a  bottle.  Here's  to  King  William,  to  the  battle 
av  the  Boyne;  to  the  Hobah  Black  Chapter — that's  my  Lodge, 
Mr.  Davoren;  an'  to  The  Orange  Lily  O. 

( Singing  in  a  loud  shout: ) 

An'  dud  ya  go  to  see  the  show,  each  rose  an'  pinkadilly  O, 

To  feast  your  eyes  an'  view  the  prize  won  be  the  Orange  Lily  O. 

The  Vic'roy  there,  so  debonair,  just  like  a  daffadilly  O, 

With  Lady  Clarke,  blithe  as  a  lark,  approached  the  Orange  Lily  O. 

Heigh  Ho  the  Lily  O, 

The  Royal,  Loyal  Lily  O, 
Beneath  the  sky  what  flower  can  vie  with  Erin's  Orange  Lily  O! 

Davoren.  Holy  God,  isn't  this  terrible! 
Grigson  [singing]: 

The  elated  Muse,  to  hear  the  news,  jumped  like  a  Connaught  filly  O,. 
As  gossip  Fame  did  loud  proclaim  the  triumph  av  the  Lily  O. 
The  Lowland  field  may  roses  yield,  gay  heaths  the  Highlands  hilly  O; 
But  high  or  low  no  flower  can  show  like  Erin's  Orange  Lily  O. 

Heigh  Ho  the  Lily  O, 

The  Royal,  Loyal  Lily  O, 
Beneath  the  sky  what  flower  can  vie  with  Erin's  Or  .  .  . 

(While  grigson  has  been  singing,  the  sound  of  a  rapidly  moving  motor  is 
heard,  faintly  at  first,  but  growing  rapidly  louder,  till  it  apparently  stops  sud- 
denly somewhere  very  near  the  house,  bringing  grigson's  song  to  an  abrupt 
conclusion.  They  are  all  startled,  and  listen  attentively  to  the  throbbing  of  the 
engines,  which  can  be  plainly  heard,  grigson  is  considerably  sobered,  and 
anxiously  keeps  his  eyes  on  the  door,  seumas  sits  up  in  bed  and  listens  anxiously. 
davoren,  with  a  shaking  hand,  lights  the  candle,  and  begins  to  search  hurriedly 
among  the  books  and  papers  on  the  table.) 

Grigson  [with  a  tremor  in  his  voice].  There's  no  need  to  be  afraid, 
they  couldn't  be  comin'  here. 

Mrs.  Grigson.  God  forbid!  It  ud  be  terrible  if  they  came  at  this 
hour  ov  the  night. 

Seumas.  You  never  know  now,  Mrs.  Grigson;  they'd  rush  in  on 
you  when  you'd  be  least  expectin'  them.  What,  in  the  name  o' 
God,  is  goin'  to  come  out  of  it  all?  Nobody  now  cares  a  traneen 
about  the  orders  of  the  Ten  Commandments;  the  only  order 
that  anybody  minds  now  is,  Tut  your  hands  up.'  Oh,  it's  a  hope- 
less country. 


THE    SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  283 

Grigson.  Whisht;  do  you  hear  them  talking  outside  at  the  door? 
You're  sure  of  your  life  nowhere  now;  it's  just  as  safe  to  go  every- 
where as  it  is  to  go  anywhere.  An'  they  don't  give  a  damn  whether 
you're  a  loyal  man  or  not.  If  you're  a  Republican  they  make  you 
sing  'God  save  the  King,'  an'  if  you're  loyal  they'll  make  you  sing 
the  'Soldiers'  Song.'  The  singin'  ud  be  all  right  if  they  didn't  make 
you  dance  afterwards. 

Mrs.  Grigson.  They'd  hardly  come  here  unless  they  heard  something 
about  Mr.  Davoren. 

Davoren.  About  me!  What  could  they  hear  about  me? 

Grigson.  You'll  never  get  some  people  to  keep  their  mouths  shut.  I 
was  in  the  Blue  Lion  this  evening,  an'  who  do  you  think  was 
there,  blowin'  out  av  him,  but  that  little  blower,  Tommy  Owens; 
there  he  was  tellin'  everybody  that  he  knew  where  there  was 
bombs;  that  he  had  a  friend  that  was  a  General  in  the  I.R.A.; 
that  he  could  tell  them  what  the  Staff  was  thinkin'  av  doin'; 
that  he  could  lay  his  hand  on  tons  av  revolvers;  that  they  wasn't 
a  mile  from  where  he  was  livin',  but  that  he  knew  his  own 
know,  an'  would  keep  it  to  himself. 

Seumas.  Well,  God  blast  the  little  blower,  anyway;  it's  the  like  ov 
him  that  deserves  to  be  plugged!  [To  davoren]  What  are  you 
lookin'  for  among  the  books,  Donal? 

Davoren.  A  letter  that  I  got  to-day  from  Mr.  Gallogher  and  Mrs. 
Henderson;  I'm  blessed  if  I  know  where  I  put  it. 

Seumas  [peevishly].  Can't  you  look  for  it  in  the  mornin'? 

Davoren.  It's  addressed  to  the  Irish  Republican  Army,  and,  con- 
sidering the  possibility  of  a  raid,  it  would  be  safer  to  get  rid  of  it. 

( Shots  again  heard  out  in  the  lane,  followed  by  loud  shouts  of  Halt,  halt,  halt! ) 

Grigson.  I  think  we  had  better  be  gettin'  to  bed,  Debby;  it's  not 
right  to  be  keepin'  Mr.  Davoren  an'  Mr.  Shields  awake. 

Seumas.  An'  what  made  them  give  you  such  a  letter  as  that;  don't 
they  know  the  state  the  country  is  in?  An'  you  were  worse  to 
take  it.  Have  you  got  it? 

Davoren.  I  can't  find  it  anywhere;  isn't  this  terrible! 

Grigson.  Good-night,  Mr.  Davoren;  good-night,  Mr.  Shields. 


284  SEAN    OCASEY 

Mrs.  Grigson.  Good-night,  Mr.  Shields;  good-night,  Mr.  Davoren. 

( They  go  out.  seumas  and  davoren  are  too  much  concerned  about  the  letter 
to  respond  to  their  good-nights.) 

Seumas.  What  were  you  thinkin'  of  when  you  took  such  a  letter 
as  that?  Ye  gods,  has  nobody  any  brains  at  all,  at  all?  Oh,  this 
is  a  hopeless  country.  Did  you  try  in  your  pockets? 

Davoren  [searching  in  his  pockets].  Oh,  thanks  be  to  God,  here  it 
is. 

Seumas.  Burn  it  now,  an',  for  God's  sake,  don't  take  any  letters  like 
that  again.  .  .  .  There's  the  motor  goin'  away;  we  can  sleep  in 
peace  now  for  the  rest  of  the  night.  Just  to  make  sure  of  everything 
now,  have  a  look  in  that  bag  o'  Maguire's:  not  that  there  can  be 
anything  in  it. 

Davoren.  If  there's  nothing  in  it,  what's  the  good  of  looking? 

Seumas.  It  won't  kill  you  to  look,  will  it? 

(  davoren  goes  over  to  the  bag,  puts  it  on  the  table,  opens  it,  and  jumps  back, 
his  face  pale  and  his  limbs  trembling. ) 

Davoren.  My  God,  it's  full  of  bombs,  Mills  bombs! 

Seumas.  Holy  Mother  of  God,  you're  jokin'! 

Davoren.  If  the  Tans  come  you'll  find  whether  I'm  jokin'  or  no. 

Seumas.  Isn't  this  a  nice  pickle  to  be  in?  St.  Anthony,  look  down 
onus! 

Davoren.  There's  no  use  of  blaming  St.  Anthony;  why  did  you  let 
Maguire  leave  the  bag  here? 

Seumas.  Why  did  I  let  him  leave  the  bag  here;  why  did  I  let  him 
leave  the  bag  here!  How  did  I  know  what  was  in  it?  Didn't  I 
think  there  was  nothin'  in  it  but  spoons  an'  hairpins.  What'll  we 
do  now;  what'll  we  do  now?  Mother  o'  God,  grant  there'll  be  no 
raid  to-night.  I  knew  things  ud  go  wrong  when  I  missed  Mass  this 
mornin'. 

Davoren.  Give  over  your  praying  and  let  us  try  to  think  of  what  is 
best  to  be  done.  There's  one  thing  certain:  as  soon  as  morning 
comes  I'm  on  the  run  out  of  this  house. 


THE    SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  285 

Seumas.  Thinkin'  of  yourself,  like  the  rest  of  them.  Leavin'  me  to 
bear  the  brunt  of  it. 

Davoren.  And  why  shouldn't  you  bear  the  brunt  of  it?  Maguire  was 
no  friend  of  mine;  besides,  it's  your  fault;  you  knew  the  sort  of 
a  man  he  was,  and  you  should  have  been  on  your  guard. 

Seumas.  Did  I  know  he  was  a  gunman;  did  I  know  he  was  a  gun- 
man; did  I  know  he  was  a  gunman?  Did  .  .  . 

Davoren.  Do  you  mean  to  tell  me  that  .  .  . 

Seumas.  Just  a  moment  .  .  . 

Davoren.  You  didn't  know  .  .  . 

Seumas.  Just  a  moment  .  .  . 

Davoren.  That  Maguire  was  connected  with  .  .  . 

Seumas  [loudly].  Just  a  moment;  can't  .  .  . 

Davoren.  The  Republican  Movement?  What's  the  use  of  trying  to 
tell  damn  lies! 

(  minnie  powell  rushes  into  the  room.  She  is  only  partly  dressed,  and  has 
thrown  a  shawl  over  her  shoulders.  She  is  in  a  state  of  intense  excitement. ) 

Minnie.  Mr.  Davoren,  Donal,  they're  all  round  the  house;  they 
must  be  goin'  to  raid  the  place;  I  was  lookin'  out  of  the  window 
an'  I  seen  them;  I  do  be  on  the  watch  every  night;  have  you 
anything?  If  you  have  .  .  . 

( There  is  heard  at  street  door  a  violent  and  continuous  knocking,  followed  by 
the  crash  of  glass  and  the  beating  of  the  door  with  rifle  butts. ) 

Minnie.  There  they  are,  there  they  are,  there  they  are! 

(  davoren  reclines  almost  fainting  on  the  bed;  seumas  sits  up  in  an  attitude  of 
agonized  pray  erf ulness;  minnie  alone  retains  her  presence  of  mind.  When  she 
sees  their  panic  she  becomes  calm,  though  her  words  are  rapidly  spoken,  and 
her  actions  are  performed  with  decisive  celerity.) 

Minnie.  What  is  it;  what  have  you  got;  where  are  they? 

Davoren.  Bombs,  bombs,  bombs;  my  God!  in  the  bag  on  the  table 
there;  we're  done,  we're  done! 

Seumas.  Hail  Mary  full  of  grace — pray  for  us  miserable  sinners — 
Holy  St.  Anthony,  do  you  hear  them  batterin  at  the  door — now 


286  SEAN   OCASEY 

an'  at  the  hour  of  our  death — say  an  act  of  contrition,  Donal 
— there's  the  glass  gone! 

Minnie.  I'll  take  them  to  my  room;  maybe  they  won't  search  it;  if 
they  do  aself,  they  won't  harm  a  girl.  Good-bye  .  .  .  Donal. 

(She  glances  lovingly  at  donal — who  is  only  semiconscious — as  she  rushes 
out  with  the  bag. ) 

Seumas.  If  we  come  through  this  I'll  never  miss  a  Mass  again!  If  it's 
the  Tommies  it  won't  be  so  bad,  but  if  it's  the  Tans,  we're  goin* 
to  have  a  terrible  time. 

( The  street  door  is  broken  open  and  heavy  steps  are  heard  in  the  hall,  punc- 
tuated with  shouts  of  '  'Old  the  light  'ere,'  'Put  'em  up,'  etc.  An  auxiliary  opens 
the  door  of  the  room  and  enters,  revolver  in  one  hand  and  electric  torch  in  the 
other.  His  uniform  is  black,  and  he  wears  a  black  beret. ) 

The  Auxiliary.  'Oo's  'ere? 

Seumas  [as  if  he  didnt  know].  Who — who's  that? 

The  Auxiliary  [peremptorily].  'Oo's  'ere? 

Seumas.  Only  two  men,  mister;  me  an'  me  mate  in  t'other  bed. 

The  Auxiliary.  Why  didn't  you  open  the  door? 

Seumas.  We  didn't  hear  you  knockin',  sir. 

The  Auxiliary.  You  must  be  a  little  awd  of  'earing,  ay? 

Seumas.  I  had  rheumatic  fever  a  few  years  ago,  an'  ever  since  I 
do  be  a — I  do  be  a  little  deaf  sometimes. 

The  Auxiliary  [to  davoren].  'Ow  is  it  you're  not  in  bed? 

Davoren.  I  was  in  bed;  when  I  heard  the  knockin'  I  got  up  to  open 
the  door. 

The  Auxiliary.  Youre  sl  kojnd  blowke,  you  are.  Deloighted,  like 
to  have  a  visit  from  us,  ay?  Ay?  [Threatening  to  strike  him] 
Why  down't  you  answer? 

Davoren.  Yes,  sir. 

The  Auxiliary.  What's  your  name? 

Davoren.  Davoren,  Dan  Davoren,  sir. 

The  Auxiliary.  You're  not  an  Irishman,  are  you? 

Davoren.  I-I-I  was  born  in  Ireland. 


THE    SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  287 

The  Auxiliary.  Ow,  you  were,  were  you;  Irish  han'  proud  of  it,  ay? 
[To  seumas]  What's  your  name? 

Seumas.  Seuma  .  .  .  Oh  no;  Jimmie  Shields,  sir. 

The  Auxiliary.  Ow,  you're  a  selt  [he  means  a  Celt],  one  of  the 
seltic  race  that  speaks  a  lingo  of  its  ahn,  and  that's  going  to 
overthrow  the  British  Empire — I  don't  think!  'Ere,  where's  your 
gun? 

Seumas.  I  never  had  a  gun  in  me  hand  in  me  life. 

The  Auxiliary.  Now;  you  wouldn't  know  what  a  gun  is  if  you 
sawr  one,  I  suppowse.  [Displaying  his  revolver  in  a  careless 
way]  'Ere,  what's  that? 

Seumas.  Oh,  be  careful,  please,  be  careful. 

The  Auxiliary.  Why,  what  'ave  I  got  to  be  careful  abaht? 

Seumas.  The  gun;  it-it-it  might  go  off. 

The  Auxiliary.  An'  what  prawse  if  it  did;  it  can  easily  be  relowded. 
Any  ammunition  'ere?  What's  in  that  press? 

( He  searches  and  scatters  contents  of  press. ) 

Seumas.  Only  a  little  bit  o'  grub;  you'll  get  nothin'  here,  sir;  no  one 
in  the  house  has   any  connection  with  politics. 

The  Auxiliary.  Now?  I've  never  met  a  man  yet  that  didn't  say  that, 
but  we're  a  little  bit  too  ikey  now  to  be  kidded  with  that  sort  of 
talk. 

Seumas.  May  I  go  an'  get  a  drink  o'  water? 

The  Auxiliary.  You'll  want  a  barrel  of  watah  before  you're  done 
with  us.  [The  auxiliary  goes  about  the  room  examining  places] 
'Ello,  what's  'ere?  A  statue  o'  Christ!  An'  a  Crucifix!  You'd  think 
you  was  in  a  bloomin'  monastery. 

(mrs.  grigson  enters,  dressed  disorderly  and  her  hair  awry.) 

Mrs.  Grigson.  They're  turning  the  place  upside-down.  Upstairs  an' 
downstairs  they're  makin'  a  litter  of  everything!  I  declare  to  God, 
it's  awful  what  law-abidin'  people  have  to  put  up  with.  An'  they 
found  a  pint  bottle  of  whisky  under  Dolphie's  pillow,  an'  they're 


288  SEAN    OCASEY 

drinkin'  every  drop  of  it — an'  Dolphie'll  be  like  a  devil  in  the 
mornin'  when  he  finds  he  has  no  curer. 
The  Auxiliary  [all  attention  when  he  hears  the  word  whisky].  A 
bottle  of  whisky,  ay?  'Ere,  where  do  you  live — quick,  where  do 
you  live? 

Mrs.  Grigson.  Down  in  the  kitchen — an'  when  you  go  down  will 
you  ask  them  not  to  drink — oh,  he's  gone  without  listenin'  to  me. 

(While  mrs.  grigson  is  speaking  the  auxiliary  rushes  out.) 

Seumas  [anxiously  to  mrs.  grigson].  Are  they  searchin'  the  whole 
house,  Mrs.  Grigson? 

Mrs.  Grigson.  They  didn't  leave  a  thing  in  the  kitchen  that  they 
didn't  flitter  about  the  floor;  the  things  in  the  cupboard,  all  the 
little  odds  an'  ends  that  I  keep  in  the  big  box,  an  .  .  . 

Seumas.  Oh,  they're  a  terrible  gang  of  blaguards — did  they  go  up- 
stairs?— they'd  hardly  search  Minnie  Powell's  room — do  you  think 
would  they,  Mrs.  Grigson? 

Mrs.  Grigson.  Just  to  show  them  the  sort  of  a  man  he  was,  before 
they  come  in,  Dolphie  put  the  big  Bible  on  the  table,  open  at 
the  First  Gospel  of  St.  Peter,  second  chapter,  an'  marked  the 
thirteenth  to  the  seventeenth  verse  in  red  ink — you  know  the 
passages,  Mr.  Shields — [quoting]: 

'Submit  yourselves  to  every  ordinance  of  man  for  the  Lord's  sake:  whether 
it  be  to  the  king,  as  supreme;  or  unto  governors,  as  unto  them  that  are  sent  by 
him  for  the  punishment  of  evildoers,  an'  for  the  praise  of  them  that  do  well. 
.  .  .  Love  the  brotherhood.  Fear  God.  Honour  the  King.' 

An'  what  do  you  think  they  did,  Mr.  Shields?  They  caught  a 
hold  of  the  Bible  an'  flung  it  on  the  floor — imagine  that,  Mr. 
Shields — flingin'  the  Bible  on  the  floor!  Then  one  of  them  says  to 
another — 'Jack,'  says  he,  'have  you  seen  the  light;  is  your  soul 
saved?'  An'  then  they  grabbed  hold  of  poor  Dolphie,  callin'  him 
Mr.  Moody  an'  Mr.  Sankey,  an'  wanted  him  to  offer  up  a  prayer 
for  the  Irish  Republic!  An'  when  they  were  puttin'  me  out,  there 
they  had  the  poor  man  sittin'  up  in  bed,  his  hands  crossed  on 
his  breast,  his  eyes  lookin'  up  at  the  ceilin',  an'  he  singin'  a  hymn 
— 'We  shall  meet  in  the  Sweet  Bye  an'  Bye' — an'  all  the  time,  Mr. 


THE    SHADOW   OF    A   GUNMAN  289 

Shields,  there  they  were  drinkin'  his  whisky;  there's  torture  for 
you,  an'  they  all  laughin'  at  poor  Dolphie's  terrible  sufferin's. 

Davoren.  In  the  name  of  all  that's  sensible,  what  did  he  want  to 
bring  whisky  home  with  him  for?  They're  bad  enough  sober, 
what'll  they  be  like  when  they're  drunk? 

Mrs.  Grigson  ['plaintively].  He  always  brings  a  drop  home  with 
him — he  calls  it  his  medicine. 

Seumas  [still  anxious].  They'll  hardly  search  all  the  house;  do  you 
think  they  will,  Mrs.  Grigson? 

Mrs.  Grigson.  An'  we  have  a  picture  over  the  mantelpiece  of  King 
William  crossing  the  Boyne,  an'  do  you  know  what  they  wanted 
to  make  out,  Mr.  Shields,  that  it  was  Robert  Emmet,  an'  the  pic- 
ture of  a  sacret  society! 

Seumas.  She's  not  listenin'  to  a  word  I'm  sayin'!  Oh,  the  country 
is  hopeless  an'  the  people  is  hopeless. 

Davoren.  For  God's  sake  tell  her  to  go  to  hell  out  of  this — she's 
worse  than  the  Auxsie. 

Seumas  [thoughtfully].  Let  her  stay  where  she  is;  it's  safer  to  have 
a  woman  in  the  room.  If  they  come  across  the  bombs  I  hope  to 
God  Minnie  '11  say  nothin'. 

Davoren.  We're  a  pair  of  pitiable  cowards  to  let  poor  Minnie  suffer 
when  we  know  that  we  and  not  she  are  to  blame. 

Seumas.  What  else  can  we  do,  man?  Do  you  want  us  to  be  done  in? 
If  you're  anxious  to  be  riddled,  I'm  not.  Besides,  they  won't  harm 
her,  she's  only  a  girl,  an'  so  long  as  she  keeps  her  mouth  shut 
it'll  be  all  right. 

Davoren.  I  wish  I  could  be  sure  of  that. 

Seumas.  D'ye  think  are  they  goin',  Mrs.  Grigson?  What  are  they 
doin'  now? 

Mrs.  Grigson  [who  is  standing  at  the  door,  looking  out  into  the 
hall].  There's  not  a  bit  of  me  tha's  not  shakin'  like  a  jelly! 

Seumas.  Are  they  gone  upstairs,  Mrs.  Grigson?  Do  you  think,  Mrs. 
Grigson,  will  they  soon  be  goin'? 

Mrs.  Grigson.  When  they  were  makin'  poor  Dolphie  sit  up  in  the 
bed,  I  'clare  to  God  I  thought  every  minute  I'd  hear  their  guns 


290  SEAN    OCASEY 

goin'  off,  an'  see  poor  Dolphie  stretched  out  dead  in  the  bed — 
whisht,  God  bless  us,  I  think  I  hear  him  moanin'! 

Seumas.  You  might  as  well  be  talking  to  a  stone!  They're  all  hope- 
less, hopeless,  hopeless!  She  thinks  she  hears  him  moanin'!  It's 
bloody  near  time  somebody  made  him  moan! 

Davoren  [with  a  sickly  attempt  at  humour'].  He's  moaning  for  the 
loss  of  his  whisky. 

{During  the  foregoing  dialogue  the  various  sounds  of  a  raid — orders,  the 
tramping  of  heavy  feet,  the  pulling  about  of  furniture,  etc.,  are  heard.  Now  a 
more  definite  and  sustained  commotion  is  apparent.  Loud  and  angry  commands 
of  'Go  on,'  'Get  out  and  get  into  the  lorry,'  are  heard,  mingled  with  a  girl's  voice 
— it  is  Minnie's — shouting  bravely,  but  a  little  hysterically,  'Up  the  Republic.') 

Mrs.  Grigson  [from  the  door].  God  save  us,  they're  takin'  Minnie, 
they're  takin'  Minnie  Powell!  [Running  out]  What  in  the  name 
of  God  can  have  happened? 

Seumas.  Holy  Saint  Anthony  grant  that  she'll  keep  her  mouth 
shut. 

Davoren  [sitting  down  on  the  bed  and  covering  his  face  with  his 
hands] .  We'll  never  again  be  able  to  lift  up  our  heads  if  anything 
happens  to  Minnie. 

Seumas.  For  God's  sake  keep  quiet  or  somebody'll  hear  you; 
nothin'll  happen  to  her,  nothin'  at  all — it'll  be  all  right  if  she  only 
keeps  her  mouth  shut. 

Mrs.  Grigson  [running  in].  They're  after  gettin'  a  whole  lot  of  stuff 
in  Minnie's  room!  Enough  to  blow  up  the  whole  street,  a  Tan 
says!  God  to-night,  who'd  have  ever  thought  that  of  Minnie 
Powell! 

Seumas.  Did  she  say  anything,  is  she  sayin'  anything,  what's  she 
sayin',  Mrs.  Grigson?- 

Mrs.  Grigson.  She's  shoutin'  'Up  the  Republic'  at  the  top  of  her 
voice.  An'  big  Mrs.  Henderson  is  fightin'  with  the  soldiers — she's 
after  nearly  knockin'  one  of  them  down,  an'  they're  puttin'  her 
into  the  lorry  too. 

Seumas.  God  blast  her!  Can  she  not  mind  her  own  business?  What 
does  she  want  here — didn't  she  know  there  was  a  raid  on?  Is  the 
whole  damn  country  goin'  mad?  They'll  open  fire  in  a  minute  an' 
innocent  people'll  be  shot! 


THE    SHADOW   OF   A   GUNMAN  291 

Davoren.  What  way  are  they  using  Minnie,  Mrs.  Grigson;  are  they 
rough  with  her? 

Mrs.  Grigson.  They  couldn't  be  half  rough  enough;  the  little  hussy, 
to  be  so  deceitful;  she  might  as  well  have  had  the  house  blew 
up!  God  to-night,  who'd  think  it  was  in  Minnie  Powell! 

Seumas.  Oh,  grant  she  won't  say  anything! 

Mrs.  Grigson.  There  they're  goin'  away  now;  ah,  then  I  hope  they'll 
give  that  Minnie  Powell  a  coolin'. 

Seumas.  God  grant  she  won't  say  anything!  Are  they  gone,  Mrs. 
Grigson? 

Mrs.  Grigson.  With  her  fancy  stockins,  an'  her  pompoms,  an'  her 
crepe  de  chine  blouses!  I  knew  she'd  come  to  no  good! 

Seumas.  God  grant  she'll  keep  her  mouth  shut!  Are  they  gone,  Mrs. 
Grigson? 

Mrs.  Grigson.  They're  gone,  Mr.  Shields,  an'  here's  poor  Dolphie 
an'  not  a  feather  astray  on  him.  Oh,  Dolphie,  dear,  you're  all 
right,  thanks  to  God;  I  thought  you'd  never  see  the  mornin'. 

Grigson  [entering  without  coat  or  vest].  Of  course  I'm  all  right; 
what  ud  put  a  bother  on  Dolphie  Grigson? — not  the  Tans  any- 
way! 

Mrs.  Grigson.  When  I  seen  you  stretched  out  on  the  bed,  an'  you 
.  .  .  singin'  a  hymn  .  .  . 

Grigson  [fearful  of  possible  humiliation].  Who  was  singin'  a  hymn? 
D'ye  hear  me  talkin'  to  you — where  did  you  hear  me  singin'  a 
hymn? 

Mrs.  Grigson.  I  was  only  jokin',  Dolphie,  dear;  I  .  .  . 

Grigson.  Your  place  is  below,  an'  not  gosterin'  here  to  men;  down 
with  you  quick! 

(mrs.  grigson  hurriedly  leaves  the  room.) 

Grigson  [nonchalantly  taking  out  his  pipe,  filling  it,  lighting  it, 
and  beginning  to  smoke].  Excitin'  few  moments,  Mr.  Davoren; 
Mrs.  G.  lost  her  head  completely — panic-stricken.  But  that's  only 
natural,  all  women  is  very  nervous.  The  only  thing  to  do  is  to 
show  them  that  they  can't  put  the  wind  up  you;  show  the  least 


292  SEAN    OCASEY 

sign  of  fright  an'  they'd  walk  on  you,  simply  walk  on  you.  Two 
of  them  come  down —  'Put  them  up'  revolvers  under  your  nose — 
you  know,  the  usual  way.  'What's  all  the  bother  about?'  says  I, 
quite  calm.  'No  bother  at  all,'  says  one  of  them,  'only  this  gun 
might  go  off  an'  hit  somebody — have  you  me?'  says  he.  'What  if 
it  does,'  says  I,  'a  man  can  only  die  once,  an'  you'll  find  Grigson 
won't  squeal.'  'God,  you're  a  cool  one,'  says  the  other,  'there's  no 
blottin'  it  out/ 

Seumas.  That's  the  best  way  to  take  them;  it  only  makes  things 
worse  to  show  that  you've  got  the  wind  up.  'Any  ammunition 
here?'  says  the  fellow  that  come  in  here.  'I  don't  think  so,'  says  I, 
'but  you  better  have  a  look.'  'No  back  talk,'  says  he,  'or  you 
might  get  plugged.'  T  don't  know  of  any  clause,'  says  I,  'in  the 
British  Constitution  that  makes  it  a  crime  for  a  man  to  speak  in 
his  own  room,' — with  that,  he  just  had  a  look  round,  an'  off  he 
went. 

Grigson.  If  a  man  keeps  a  stiff  upper  front — Merciful  God,  there's 
an  ambush! 

( Explosions  of  two  bursting  bombs  are  heard  on  the  street  outside  the  house, 
followed  by  fierce  and  rapid  revolver  and  rifle  fire.  People  are  heard  rushing  into 
the  hall,  and  there  is  general  clamour  and  confusion,  seumas  and  davoren 
cower  down  in  the  room;  grigson,  after  a  few  moments'  hesitation,  frankly 
rushes  out  of  the  room  to  what  he  conceives  to  be  the  safer  asylum  of  the 
kitchen.  A  lull  follows,  punctuated  by  an  odd  rifle-shot;  then  comes  a  peculiar 
and  ominous  stillness,  broken  in  a  few  moments  by  the  sounds  of  voices  and 
movement.  Questions  are  heard  being  asked:  'Who  was  it  was  killed?'  'Where 
was  she  shot?'  which  are  answered  by:  'Minnie  Powell';  'She  went  to  jump  off 
the  lorry  an  she  was  shot';  'She's  not  dead,  is  she?';  'They  say  she's  dead — 
shot  through  the  buzzoml') 

Davoren  [in  a  tone  of  horror-stricken  doubt].  D'ye  hear  what 
they're  sayin',  Shields,  d'ye  hear  what  they're  sayin'? — Minnie 
Powell  is  shot. 

Seumas.  For  God's  sake  speak  easy,  an'  don't  bring  them  in  here 
on  top  of  us  again. 

Davoren.  Is  that  all  you're  thinking  of?  Do  you  realize  that  she  has 
been  shot  to  save  us? 

Seumas.  Is  it  my  fault;  am  I  to  blame? 

Davoren.  It  is  your  fault  and  mine,  both;  oh,  we're  a  pair  of 
dastardly  cowards  to  have  let  her  do  what  she  did. 


THE    SHADOW   OF    A   GUNMAN  293 

Seumas.  She  did  it  off  her  own  bat — we  didn't  ask  her  to  do  it. 

(mrs.  grigson  enters.  She  is  excited  and  semi-hysterical,  and  sincerely  af- 
fected by  the  tragic  occurrence. ) 

Mrs.  Grigson  [falling  down  in  a  sitting  posture  on  one  of  the  beds]. 
What's  goin'  to  happen  next.  Oh,  Mr.  Davoren,  isn't  it  terrible, 
isn't  it  terrible!  Minnie  Powell,  poor  little  Minnie  Powell's  been 
shot  dead!  They  were  raidin'  a  house  a  few  doors  down,  an'  had 
just  got  up  in  their  lorries  to  go  away,  when  they  was  ambushed. 
You  never  heard  such  shootin'!  An'  in  the  thick  of  it,  poor  Min- 
nie went  to  jump  off  the  lorry  she  was  on,  an'  she  was  shot 
through  the  buzzom.  Oh,  it  was  horrible  to  see  the  blood  pourin' 
out,  an'  Minnie  moanin'.  They  found  some  paper  in  her  breast, 
with  'Minnie'  written  on  it,  an'  some  other  name  they  couldn't 
make  out  with  the  blood;  the  officer  kep'  it.  The  ambulance  is 
bringin'  her  to  the  hospital,  but  what  good's  that  when  she's  dead! 
Poor  little  Minnie,  poor  little  Minnie  Powell,  to  think  of  you  full 
of  life  a  few  minutes  ago,  an'  now  she's  dead! 

Davoren.  Ah  me,  alas!  Pain,  pain,  pain  ever,  for  ever!  It's  terrible 
to  think  that  little  Minnie  is  dead,  but  it's  still  more  terrible  to 
think  that  Davoren  and  Shields  are  alive!  Oh,  Donal  Davoren, 
shame  is  your  portion  now  till  the  silver  cord  is  loosened  and  the 
golden  bowl  be  broken.  Oh,  Davoren,  Donal  Davoren,  poet  and 
poltroon,  poltroon  and  poet! 

Seumas  [solemnly].  I  knew  something  ud  come  of  the  tappin'  on 
the  wall! 


ELIZABETH    BOWEN 


An  Evening  in  Anglo- Ireland,  with 
Undertones  of  War1 


-Lois,  dressed  for  dinner,  was  tidying  her  writing-table;  two 
stamped  letters,  her  handiwork,  leaned  on  the  clock.  She  shook  out 
her  pink  suede  blotter  and  started  to  sort  its  contents,  but  had  to 
re-read  everything.  Gerald,  who  had  written  about  a  tournament, 
concluded:  'You  have  the  loveliest  soft  eyes/  She  was  perplexed, 
thought:  'But  what  can  I  do?'  and  snapped  the  letter,  with  others, 
under  a  rubber  band.  Then  she  pulled  out  a  drawer  called  'gen- 
eral' and  swept  the  rest  into  it.  She  had  a  waste-paper  basket,  but 
only  for  envelopes.  Strokes  of  the  gong,  brass  bubbles,  came 
bouncing  up  from  the  hall.  She  ran  to  the  glass,  changed  a  neck- 
lace, had  an  apprehensive  interchange  with  her  own  reflection. 
What  of  the  night? 

Mrs.  Montmorency  and  Laurence  were  in  the  drawing-room. 
They  looked  anxious,  nothing  showed  the  trend  of  the  conversation. 
The  pale  room  rose  to  a  height  only  mirrors  followed  above  the 
level  of  occupation;  this  disproportionate  zone  of  emptiness 
dwarfed  at  all  times  figures  and  furniture.  The  distant  ceiling  im- 
posed on  consciousness  its  blank  white  oblong,  and  a  pellucid  si- 
lence, distilled  from  a  hundred  and  fifty  years  of  conversation, 
waited  beneath  the  ceiling.  Into  this  silence,  voices  went  up  in 
stately  attenuation.  Now  there  were  no  voices;  Mrs.  Montmorency 
and  Laurence  sat  looking  away  from  each  other. 

As  Lois  came  in  Laurence  slapped  his  pockets  over  and  saying 
something  about  a  pipe  left  the  room  quickly,  leaving  Lois  in  the 
grip  of  a  tete-a-tete.  Mrs.  Montmorency,  seated  in  a  window,  held 
by  a  corner  a  copy  of  the  Spectator,  that  had  slipped  down  against 
the  silk  of  her  dress,  as  though  she  must  be  sure  to  retain  this 
constant  refuge  from  conversation.  Vague  presence,  barely  a  sil- 
houette, the  west  light  sifting  into  her  fluffy  hair  and  lace  wrap- 
pings so  that  she  half  melted,  she  gave  so  little  answer  to  one's 
inquiry  that  one  did  not  know  how  to  approach.  So  Lois  stood  star- 
ing, full  in  the  light. 

'Oh,  you  do  look  sweet!'  exclaimed  the  visitor.  'Black  is  so  strik- 

1  From  The  Last  September,  London,  1929. 

294 


AN   EVENING   IN    ANGLO-IRELAND,    WITH   UNDERTONES   OF   WAR  295 

ing.  No,  you  are  not  like  Laura — I  don't  know  who  you're  like.' 

'Aunt  Myra  isn't  sure  about  black  for  girls,'  said  Lois,  sweeping 
forward  for  admiration  the  folds  of  her  dress.  'But  a  white  slip 
lightens  it.' 

'And  I  expect  you  are  having  a  wonderful  time  now  you're  grown 
up?' 

'Oh,  well  .  .  .'  said  Lois.  She  went  across  to  the  fireplace  and 
rose  on  her  tiptoes,  leaning  her  shoulders  against  the  marble.  She 
tried  not  to  look  conscious.  She  still  felt  a  distinct  pride  at  having 
grown  up  at  all;  it  seemed  an  achievement,  like  marriage  or  fame. 
Having  a  wonderful  time,  she  knew,  meant  being  attractive  to  a 
number  of  young  men.  If  she  said,  'Yes,  I  do,'  it  implied  'Yes,  I  am, 

very '  and  she  was  not  certain.  She  was  not  certain,  either,  how 

much  she  enjoyed  herself.  'Well,  yes,  I  do,'  she  said  finally. 

'Tell  me,'  continued  Mrs.  Montmorency,  'wasn't  that  your  cousin 
Laurence?' 

'As  a  matter  of  fact  I  am  Uncle  Richard's  niece  and  he  Aunt 
Myra's  nephew.' 

'And  isn't  he  very  intellectual?' 

'I  suppose  he  is,  really.' 

Tm  afraid,'  said  Mrs.  Montmorency,  'I  had  no  idea  how  to  talk  to 
him.  I  suppose  you'd  never  find  that  difficult.  I  expect  now,  Lois, 
you're  very  modern.' 

'Oh,  well,  not  really,'  said  Lois,  pleased.  Mrs.  Montmorency's 
expression,  condensing  now  from  her  outline,  was  of  such  affection 
and  interest  that  Lois  was  moved  to  go  on:  'You  could  talk  to  him 
really  about  almost  anything  except  about  politics.  He  isn't  allowed 
any  here  because  the  ones  he  brings  over  from  Oxford  are  all 
wrong.' 

'Wrong?'  cried  the  visitor,  with  a  startled  flush,  putting  up  a  hand 
to  her  face  as  though  to  press  back  the  mounting  colour.  'Wrong — 
which  way?  How  do  you  mean,  "wrong"?' 

'Inconvenient.' 

'Oh,'  said  Mrs.  Montmorency.  And  upon  a  recurrence  of  the 
puzzled  silence  that  had  been  the  note  of  Lois'  entrance,  Sir 
Richard  came  in.  Sir  Richard  was  very  much  worried  by  visitors 
who  came  down  early  for  dinner:  evidently  he  had  not  expected 
this  of  Francie.  'Oh!'  he  exclaimed  reproachfully,  'this  is  too  bad;  I 
had  no  idea  you  were  down.  Myra's  been  delayed — you  know  your- 
self what  happens.' 


296  ELIZABETH   BOWEN 

Indeed,  yes,'  said  Francie  warmly.  She  would  never  have  been 
in  time  herself  if  she  had  had  a  home  of  her  own.  Only  the  little 
blanks  and  rifts  in  her  life  accounted  for  her  punctuality. 

Sir  Richard,  touching  his  tie  vaguely,  wandered  about  the  room, 
displacing  with  some  irritation  the  little  tables  that  seemed  to 
spring  up  in  his  path,  in  the  pent-up  silence  of  a  powerful  talker  not 
yet  in  gear. 

'Very  fine  weather/  he  said  at  last,  warm  at  nights — or  would 
you  like  me  to  shut  that  window?'  He  was  bothered;  he  could  not 
remember  how  well  he  had  once  known  Francie,  or  decide  at  just 
what  degree  of  intimacy  he  was  expected  to  pick  her  up  again. 
'Lois  has  grown  up,  hasn't  she?'  he  continued,  pointing  out  his 
niece  with  an  air  of  inspiration.  'She  seems  to  me  to  have  grown 
up  very  fast.  Now  how  long  is  it  since  you  saw  her  over  in  Eng- 
land?' 

'But  I  never  did  see  her.' 

'That  was  extraordinary,'  said  Sir  Richard,  looking  from  one  to 
the  other.  'Didn't  you  meet  poor  Laura?' 

'I  did,  but  Lois  was  out.' 

'That  was  too  bad.'  Sir  Richard's  bother  increased,  with  a  sus- 
picion of  something  somewhere.  He  observed  rather  flatly:  'Then  it 
can  hardly  be  such  a  surprise  to  you  that  she's  grown  up.' 

'Not  in  the  same  way.' 

'We  can  all  sit  out  on  the  steps  to-night,'  said  Lois,  determined  to 
check  the  couple  in  their  career  of  inanity.  She  went  across  to  a 
window  and  folded  her  arms  on  the  sill. 

The  screen  of  trees  that  reached  like  an  arm  from  behind  the 
house — embracing  the  lawns,  banks  and  terraces  in  mild  ascent — 
had  darkened,  deepening  into  a  forest.  Like  splintered  darkness, 
branches  pierced  the  faltering  dusk  of  leaves.  Evening  drenched 
the  trees;  the  beeches  were  soundless  cataracts.  Behind  the  trees, 
pressing  in  from  the  open  and  empty  country  like  an  invasion, 
the  orange  bright  sky  crept  and  smouldered.  Firs,  bearing  up  to 
pierce,  melted  against  the  brightness.  Somewhere,  there  was  a 
sunset  in  which  the  mountains  lay  like  glass. 

Dark  had  so  gained  the  trees  that  Lois,  turning  back  from  the 
window,  was  surprised  at  how  light  the  room  was.  Day,  still  com- 
ing in  from  the  fields  by  the  south  windows,  was  stored  in  the  mir- 
rors, in  the  sheen  of  the  wall-paper,  so  that  the  room  still  shone.  Mr. 


AN   EVENING   IN   ANGLO-IRELAND,    WITH   UNDERTONES    OF    WAR  297 

Montmorency  had  come  in  and  was  standing  where  she  had  stood, 
his  shoulders  against  the  mantelpiece. 

'We  can  sit  out  on  the  steps  to-night,  can't  we?'  persisted  Lois. 
And  because  no  one  answered  or  cared  and  a  conversation  went  on 
without  her,  she  felt  profoundly  lonely,  suspecting  once  more  for 
herself  a  particular  doom  of  exclusion.  Something  of  the  trees  in 
their  intimacy  of  shadow  was  shared  by  the  husband  and  wife  and 
their  host  in  the  tree-shadowed  room.  She  thought  of  love  with 
its  gift  of  importance.  1  must  break  in  on  all  this,'  she  thought  as 
she  looked  round  the  room. 

'Do  you  still  go  to  sleep  after  dinner?'  she  asked  Mr.  Mont- 
morency. 

It's  a  thing  that  I  never  have  done,'  he  said,  annoyed. 

'But  it's  what  I  chiefly  remember  about  you.' 

I'm  afraid,'  he  said,  tolerant,  'you  are  mixing  me  up  with  some 
one  else.' 

'Listen,  Richard,'  said  Francie:  'are  you  sure  we  will  not  be  shot 
at  if  we  sit  out  late  on  the  steps?' 

Sir  Richard  laughed  and  they  all  shared  his  amusement.  'We 
never  have  yet,  not  even  with  soldiers  here  and  Lois  dancing  with 
officers  up  and  down  the  avenue.  You're  getting  very  English, 
Francie!  Isn't  Francie  getting  very  English?  Do  you  think  maybe 
we  ought  to  put  sandbags  behind  the  shutters  when  we  shut  up  at 
nights?' 

'No,  but  Richard,  seriously '  began  Francie,  then,  as  they  all 

stared,  laughed  and  had  to  give  up  and  go  on  laughing.  Now  in 
County  Carlow  they  had  said  things  were  bad  round  here,  that  she 
made  a  grave  mistake  in  coming  at  all.  But  then,  as  Richard  would 
certainly  say,  that  was  County  Carlow  all  over. 

Lady  Naylor  came  in  arm-in-arm  with  Laurence  and  said  they 
were  all  very  punctual.  'The  gong's  only  gone  three  minutes,  also  I 
could  be  certain  I  never  heard  any  of  you  go  down.  But  I  was  de- 
layed, as  I  told  Richard  to  tell  you.  Shall  we  go  in?' 

'Francie  wants  to  know,'  said  Sir  Richard,  offering  Francie  his 
arm,  'if  we  haven't  got  a  machine-gun?' 

'Ah,  you're  too  bad!' 

'Do  you  dance  on  the  avenue?'  said  Mr.  Montmorency  to  Lois. 

'Only  once,  for  a  bet.  I  and  a  man  called  Mr.  Lesworth  danced 
to  the  white  gate,  and  the  man  that  we  had  the  bet  with  walked 


298  ELIZABETH   BOWEN 

after  us  carrying  the  gramophone.  But  naturally,  I  don't  as  a 
rule.' 

'It  would  come  hard  on  your  shoes,  I  expect,'  said  Mr.  Mont- 
morency distantly. 

'And  the  men  we  know  can't  get  over  here  in  the  evening,  now.' 

'Still,  I  expect  you  have  a  very  gay  time,'  said  Mr.  Mont- 
morency, and  turned  away. 

In  the  dining-room,  the  little  party  sat  down  under  the  crowd  of 
portraits.  Under  that  constant  interchange  from  the  high-up  faces 
staring  across — now  fading  each  to  a  wedge  of  fawn-colour,  and 
each  looking  out  from  a  square  of  darkness  tunnelled  into  the  wall 
— Sir  Richard  and  Lady  Naylor,  their  nephew,  niece  and  old  friends 
had  a  thin,  over-bright  look,  seemed  on  the  air  of  the  room  uncon- 
vincingly  painted,  startled,  transitory.  Spaced  out  accurately  round 
the  enormous  table — whereon,  in  what  was  left  of  the  light,  damask 
birds  and  roses  had  an  unearthly  shimmer — each  so  enisled  and 
distant  that  a  remark  at  random,  falling  short  of  a  neighbour, 
seemed  a  cry  of  appeal,  the  six,  in  spite  of  an  emphasis  of  speech 
and  gesture  they  unconsciously  heightened,  dwindled  personally. 
While  above,  the  immutable  figures,  shedding  on  the  wash  of  dusk 
smiles,  frowns,  every  vestige  of  personality,  kept  only  attitude — an 
outmoded  modestness,  a  quirk  or  a  flare,  hand  slipped  under  a  ruf- 
fle or  spread  airily  over  the  cleft  of  a  bosom — cancelled  time,  nega- 
tived personality  and  made  of  the  lower  cheerfulness,  dining  and 
talking,  the  faintest  exterior  friction. 

In  Laurence's  plate  of  clear  soup  six  peas  floated.  Six  accurate 
spoonfuls,  each  with  a  pea  in  it,  finished  the  soup.  He  glanced 
right  in  his  aunt's  direction,  left  in  Mrs.  Montmorency's:  both  were 
talking.  Mr.  Montmorency,  listening  to  Lady  Naylor,  seemed  to 
be  looking  across  at  Laurence,  but  he  sat  with  his  back  to  the 
light  so  that  Laurence,  short-sighted,  could  not  be  sure — he  pre- 
ferred uncertainty. 

Lady  Naylor  spoke  of  the  way  things  were,  with  her  pointed 
spoon  poised  over  her  plate.  She  noticed  the  others  were  wait- 
ing, and  with  a  last  bright  emphatic  look  in  Hugo's  direction  bent 
to  finish  her  soup.  He  said  at  once  to  Laurence:  'And  what  do 
you  think  of  things?' 

'Things?  Over  here?' 

'Yes — yes.' 


AN   EVENING   IN   ANGLO-IRELAND,    WITH   UNDERTONES    OF   WAR  299 

'Seem  to  be  closing  in,'  said  Laurence,  crumbling  his  bread  de- 
tachedly;  rolling  up  rather/ 

'Ssh!'  exclaimed  Lady  Naylor,  running  out  a  hand  at  both  of 
them  over  the  cloth.  She  frowned,  with  a  glance  at  the  parlour- 
maid. 'Now  you  mustn't  make  Laurence  exaggerate.  All  young  men 
from  Oxford  exaggerate.  All  Laurence's  friends  exaggerate:  I  have 
met  them.' 

If  you  have  noticed  it,'  said  her  nephew,  'it  is  probably  so.' 

Lois,  on  his  other  side,  leant  eagerly  to  Mr.  Montmorency.  'If  you 
are  interested,  would  you  care  to  come  and  dig  for  guns  in  the 
plantation?  Or  if  I  dig,  will  you  come  as  a  witness?  Three  of  the 
men  on  the  place  here  swear  there  are  guns  buried  in  the  lower 
plantation.  Michael  Keelan  swears  he  was  going  through  there, 
late,  and  saw  men  digging.  I  asked  him,  "What  were  they  like?'' 
and  he  said,  "The  way  they  would  be,"  and  I  said,  why  didn't  he  ask 
them  what  they  were  doing,  and  he  said,  "Sure,  why  would  I; 
didn't  I  see  them  digging,  and  they  with  spades?"  So  it  appears  he 
fled  back  the  way  he  had  come/ 

' — Ah,  that's  nonsense  now!'  Sir  Richard  exploded.  'Michael  would 
see  anything:  he  is  known  to  have  seen  a  ghost.  I  will  not  have  the 
men  talking,  and  at  all  accounts  I  won't  have  them  listened  to.' 

'All  the  same,'  pursued  Lois,  'I  feel  that  one  ought  to  dig.  If 
there  is  nothing  there  I  can  confound  Michael  for  the  good  of  his 
soul,  and  if  there  should  be  guns,  Uncle  Richard,  just  think  of  find- 
ing them!  And  surely  we  ought  to  know/ 

'And  why  would  we  want  to  know?  You'll  have  the  place  full  of 
soldiers,  trampling  the  young  trees.  There's  been  enough  damage 
in  that  plantation  with  the  people  coming  to  sight-see:  all 
Michael's  friends.  Now  I  won't  have  digging  at  all:  do  you  under- 
stand?' said  Sir  Richard,  flushed. 

Francie  felt  torn  in  herself,  dividedly  sympathetic.  'I  expect  one 
can't  be  too  careful.  .  .  .  The  poor  young  little  trees  .  .  .  and  be- 
sides,' she  added  to  Lois,  'one  might  blow  oneself  up/ 

'This  country,'  continued  Sir  Richard,  'is  altogether  too  full  of 
soldiers,  with  nothing  to  do  but  dance  and  poke  old  women  out  of 
their  beds  to  look  for  guns.  It's  unsettling  the  people,  naturally. 
The  fact  is,  the  Army's  got  into  the  habit  of  fighting  and  doesn't 
know  what  else  to  do  with  itself,  and  also  the  Army  isn't  at  all 
what  it  used  to  be.  I  was  held  up  yesterday  for  I  wouldn't  like  to  say 


300  ELIZABETH   BOWEN 

how  long,  driving  over  to  Ballyhinch,  by  a  thing  like  a  coffee- 
pot backing  in  and  out  of  a  gate,  with  a  little  brute  of  a  fellow  bob- 
bing in  and  out  at  me  from  under  a  lid  at  the  top.  I  kept  my  tem- 
per, but  I  couldn't  help  telling  him  I  didn't  know  what  the  country 
was  coming  to — and  just  when  we'd  got  the  horses  accustomed  to 
motors.  "You'll  do  no  good,"  I  told  him,  "in  this  unfortunate  coun- 
try by  running  about  in  a  thing  like  a  coffee-pot."  And  those 
patrols  in  lorries  run  you  into  a  ditch  as  soon  as  look  at  you.  They 
tell  me  there's  a  great  deal  of  socialism  now  in  the  British  Army.' 

'Well,  it's  difficult  for  them  all,'  said  his  wife,  pacific,  'and  they're 
doing  their  best,  I  think.  The  ones  who  come  over  here  seem  quite 
pleasant.' 

'What  regiment  have  you  now  at  Clonmore?' 

'The  1st  Rutlands.' 

'And  there  are  some  Field  Gunners  and  Garrison  Gunners  too,' 
added  Lois.  'Most  people  seem  to  prefer  the  Garrison  Gunners.' 

'The  Garrison  Gunners  dance  better,'  said  Laurence  to  Mrs. 
Montmorency.  'It  would  be  the  greatest  pity  if  we  were  to  become  a 
republic  and  all  these  lovely  troops  were  taken  away.' 

'Fool,'  said  Lois  across  the  flowers.  Mr.  Montmorency  looked  at 
her  in  surprise. 

Lady  Naylor  continued:  'From  all  the  talk,  you  might  think  al- 
most anything  was  going  to  happen,  but  we  never  listen.  I  have 
made  it  a  rule  not  to  talk,  either.  In  fact,  if  you  want  rumours,  we 
must  send  you  over  to  Castle  Trent.  And  I'm  afraid  also  the  Careys 
are  incorrigible.  .  .  .  Oh,  yes,  Hugo,  it's  all  very  well  to  talk  of  dis- 
integration; of  course  there  is  a  great  deal  of  disintegration  in  Eng- 
land and  on  the  Continent.  But  one  does  wonder  sometimes  whether 
there's  really  much  there  to  disintegrate.  ...  I  dare  say  there 
may  have  been.  .  .  .  And  if  you  talk  to  the  people  they'll  tell  you 
the  whole  thing's  nonsense:  and  after  all  what  is  a  country  if  it  isn't 
the  people?  For  instance,  I  had  a  long  conversation  this  morning 
with  Mrs.  Pat  Gegan,  who  came  down  about  the  apples — you  re- 
member her,  Hugo,  don't  you,  she  always  asks  after  you:  she  was 
really  delighted  to  hear  you  were  coming  back — "It  is  the  way  the 
young  ones  do  be  a  bit  wild,"  she  said,  and  I  really  agreed  with  her. 
She  said  young  people  were  always  the  same,  and  wasn't  it  the  great 
pity.  She  is  a  most  interesting  woman:  she  thinks  a  great  deal.  But 
then  our  people  do  think.  Now  have  you  ever  noticed  the  English?  I 
remember  a  year  ago  when  I  was  staying  with  Anna  Partridge  in 


AN   EVENING   IN   ANGLO-IRELAND,    WITH   UNDERTONES   OF    WAR  301 

Bedfordshire — she  is  always  so  full  of  doing  things  in  the  village, 
little  meetings  and  so  on.  Well,  I  went  to  one  of  her  meetings,  and 
really — those  village  women  sitting  round  in  hats  and  so  obviously 
despising  her!  And  not  a  move  on  their  faces.  I  said  to  her  after- 
wards :  "I  do  think  you're  splendid,  Anna,  the  way  you  throw  your- 
self into  things — but  really  what  you  can  do  with  people  with  so 

little  brain "  She  seemed  quite  annoyed  and  said  that  at  least 

they  were  loyal.  I  said  they  hadn't  got  any  alternative,  and  if  they 
had  an  alternative  I  didn't  suppose  they'd  see  it.  She  said  they  had 
hearts  of  gold  if  they  didn't  wear  them  on  their  sleeves,  and  I  said  I 
thought  it  was  a  pity  they  didn't — it  would  have  brightened  them  up 
a  bit.  She  said  that  at  least  one  knew  where  one  was  with  them,  and 
I  said  I  wouldn't  live  among  people  who  weren't  human.  Then  I 
thought  it  seemed  a  shame  to  unsettle  her,  if  she  really  likes  living  in 
England.  .  .  .  Oh,  and  I  said  to  Mrs.  Gegan  this  morning:  "Some 
of  your  friends  would  like  us  to  go,  you  know,"  and  she  got  so  in- 
dignant she  nearly  wept.  And  the  Trents  were  telling  me Oh, 

Hugo,  the  Trents  are  coming  to  tennis  to-morrow,  specially  for  you 
and  Francie.  And  the  Thompsons  are  coming,  and  I  believe  the 
Hartigans.  The  Hartigan  girls  are  still  all  there,  you'll  be  surprised 
to  hear.  Nobody  seems  to  marry  them — and  oh,  a  Colonel  and  Mrs. 
Boatley  are  coming,  and  three  or  four  of  the  Rutlands ' 

'Five,'  said  Lois. 

'Anyhow,  several  Rutlands.  Everyone's  so  delighted  to  hear  that 
you  and  Francie  are  back.' 

'The  Trents,'  said  Lois  to  Mr.  Montmorency,  with  indignation, 
'swear  that  you  and  they  are  related.  But  you  are  not,  surely?  It  is  a 
perfect  obsession  of  theirs/ 

When  he  said  he  supposed  that  he  was,  through  an  aunt's  mar- 
riage, she  became  pensive.  It  seemed  odd  that  even  the  Trents  should 
have  a  closer  claim  than  she  had.  Though  it  was  she  who  had  been 
humming  with  agitation  the  whole  morning.  The  sweetpeas  in 
the  urn  before  them  bore  evidence  to  her  agitation:  they  all  slanted 
to  the  west  like  a  falling  haystack.  It  was  true  she  now  hoped 
nothing  more  of  him,  but  he  still  was  in  shadow,  faintly,  from  the 
kindly  monolith  of  her  childhood.  What  he  might  have  been,  what 
he  persisted  in  being,  met  in  her  mind  with  a  jar,  with  a  grate  of 
disparity.  The  face  she  had  watched  sleeping — wiped  clear  of  com- 
plexity, quiet  but  so  communicative  in  stillness  that,  watching,  she 
seemed  to  have  shared  in  some  kind  of  suspense,  stayed — like  the 


302  ELIZABETH   BOWEN 

bright  blur  from  looking  too  long  at  a  lamp — over  the  face  now 
turned  to  her,  intelligent,  dulled,  with  its  sub-acid  smile.  She  was 
likely  to  think  of  him  now  as  a  limitation,  Mrs.  Montmorency's 
limitation;  something  about  Mrs.  Montmorency  that  was  a  pity. 
The  Trents  could  have  him. 

1  expect/  she  said  slightingly,  'you  are  related  to  every  one/ 

'The  longer  one  lives  in  this  country/  he  all  too  agreeably  said, 
'the  more  likely  that  seems/ 

Yet  she  had  been  certain  she  felt  him  looking  at  her  while  she 
argued  with  Uncle  Richard  about  the  guns.  Seeking  a  likeness,  per- 
haps. It  was  this  consciousness  that  had  lent  her  particular  fer- 
vour— though  she  was  interested  in  the  guns.  Though  when  she 
turned  round  his  profile  was  turned  away — in,  it  seemed,  the  most 
scornful  repudiation. 

He  had,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  been  looking  at  her,  but  without  in- 
tention and  with  purely  surface  observation  of  detail.  When  she 
turned  away,  light  from  behind  her  ran  a  finger  round  the  curve  of 
her  jaw.  When  she  turned  his  way,  light  took  the  uncertain,  dinted 
cheek-line  where,  under  the  eyes,  flesh  was  patted  on  delicately 
over  the  rise  of  the  bone.  Her  eyes,  long  and  soft-coloured,  had 
the  intense  brimming  wandering  look  of  a  puppy's;  in  repose  her 
lips  met  doubtfully,  in  a  never- determined  line,  so  that  she  never 
seemed  to  have  quite  finished  speaking.  Her  face  was  long,  her  nose 
modelled  down  from  the  bridge,  then  finished  off  softly  and  bluntly 
as  by  an  upward  flick  of  the  sculptor's  thumb.  Her  chin  had  em- 
phasis, seemed  ready  for  determination.  He  supposed  that  un- 
formed, anxious  to  make  an  effort,  she  would  marry  early. 

'Danielstown  can't  have  been  so  exciting  when  you  were  here 
before/  said  Lois  to  Mrs.  Montmorency. 

But  Mrs.  Montmorency,  in  an  absence  of  mind  amounting  to 
exaltation,  had  soared  over  the  company.  She  could  perform  at  any 
moment,  discomfitingly,  these  acts  of  levitation.  She  was  staring 
into  one  of  the  portraits. 


Lois  was  sent  upstairs  for  the  shawls;  it  appeared  that  a  touch  of 
dew  on  the  bare  skin  might  be  fatal  to  Lady  Naylor  or  Mrs.  Mont- 
morency. On  the  stairs,  her  feet  found  their  evening  echoes;  she 


AN   EVENING   IN   ANGLO-IRELAND,    WITH   UNDERTONES   OF   WAR  303 

dawdled,  listening.  When  she  came  down  everybody  was  on  the 
steps — at  the  top,  on  the  wide  stone  plateau — the  parlourmaid  look- 
ing for  somewhere  to  put  the  coffee  tray.  Mrs.  Montmorency  sat  in 
the  long  chair;  her  husband  was  tucking  a  carriage  rug  round  her 
knees.  If  you  do  that,'  Lois  could  not  help  saying,  'she  won't  be  able 
to  walk  about,  which  is  the  best  part  of  sitting  out.' 

No  one  took  any  notice:  Mr.  Montomorency  went  on  tucking. 

'Haven't  you  got  a  wrap  for  yourself?'  said  Lady  Naylor.  Lois 
took  a  cushion  and  sat  on  the  top  step  with  her  arms  crossed, 
stroking  her  elbows.  1  shouldn't  sit  there,'  her  aunt  continued;  'at 
this  time  of  night  stone  will  strike  up  through  anything.' 

'If  you  don't  get  rheumatism  now,'  added  Francie,  'you  will  be 
storing  up  rheumatism.' 

'It  will  be  my  rheumatism,'  said  Lois  as  gently  as  possible,  but 
added  inwardly:  'After  you're  both  dead.'  A  thought  that  fifty  years 
hence  she  might  well,  if  she  wished,  be  sitting  here  on  the  steps — 
with  or  without  rheumatism — having  penetrated  thirty  years 
deeper  ahead  into  Time  than  they  could,  gave  her  a  feeling  of 
mysteriousness  and  destination.  And  she  was  fitted  for  this  by  be- 
ing twice  as  complex  as  their  generation — for  she  must  be:  double 
as  many  people  having  gone  to  the  making  of  her. 

Laurence,  looking  resentfully  round  for  somewhere  to  sit — she 
had  taken  the  only  cushion — said:  'I  suppose  you  think  ants  cannot 
run  up  your  legs  if  you  cannot  see  them?' 

Mr.  Montmorency  surprised  her  by  offering  a  cigarette.  He  had 
a  theory,  he  said,  that  ants  did  not  like  cigarette  smoke.  The  air 
was  so  quiet  now,  the  flame  ran  up  his  match  without  a  tremble. 
'The  ants  are  asleep,'  she  said,  'they  disappear  into  the  cracks  of 
the  steps.  They  don't  bite,  either;  but  the  idea  is  horrid.' 

'Don't  you  want  a  chair?'  When  she  said  she  didn't,  he  settled 
back  in  his  own.  Creaks  ran  through  the  wicker,  discussing  him, 
then  all  was  quiet.  He  was  not  due  to  leave  the  ship  in  which  they 
were  all  rushing  out  into  Time  till  ten  years  after  the  others,  though 
it  was  to  the  others  that  he  belonged.  Turning  half  round,  she 
watched  light  breathe  at  the  tips  of  the  cigarettes;  it  seemed  as 
though  everybody  were  waiting.  Night  now  held  the  trees  with  a 
toneless  finality.  The  sky  shone,  whiter  than  glass,  fainting  down  to 
the  fretted  leafline,  but  was  being  steadily  drained  by  the  dark  be- 
low,  to   which   the   grey   of  the   lawns,   like   smoke,    as   steadily 


304  ELIZABETH   BOWEN 

mounted.  The  house  was  highest  of  all  with  toppling  immanence, 
like  a  cliff. 

'I  don't  think/  said  Francie,  1  remember  anything  so — so  quiet  as 
evenings  here.' 

'Trees,'  said  Laurence,  shifting  his  pipe.  His  shirt-front  was  high 
above  them,  he  stood  by  the  door  with  his  foot  on  the  scraper. 

'This  time  to-morrow,'  said  Lady  Naylor,  'we  shall  want  to  be 
quiet — after  the  tennis  party.'  She  let  out  a  sigh  that  hung  in  the  si- 
lence, like  breath  in  cold  air. 

'Oh  yes,  the  party!  The  tennis  party  .  .  .' 

'Francie,  did  I  tell  you  who  were  coming?' 

'You  told  her,'  said  Laurence.  'I  heard  you/ 

'It  is  the  people  who  don't  play  tennis  who  make  it  so  tiring.' 

Something  about  the  way,  the  resigned  way,  Francie's  hands  lay 
out  on  the  rug  gave  her  the  look  of  an  invalid.  'It  is  a  good  thing,' 
said  Sir  Richard,  'you  two  never  went  out  to  Canada.  I  never  liked 
the  idea  myself;  I  was  very  much  against  it  at  the  time,  if  you  re- 
member.' 

'I  was  divided  about  it  myself,'  said  Hugo.  It  seemed  worth  trying, 
and  yet  there  was  so  much  against  it.  I  don't  know  that  I  should 
have  done  very  much  good — I  wonder.' 

They  wondered  with  him,  with  degrees  of  indifference.  Lois 
stroked  her  dress — the  feel  of  the  stuff  was  like  cobwebs,  sticky 
and  damp.  There  must  be  dew  falling. 

'Oh!'  cried  Francie.  'Listen!' 

She  had  so  given  herself  to  the  silence  that  the  birth  of  sound, 
after  whjch  the  others  were  still  straining,  had  shocked  her  nerves 
like  a  blow.  They  looked,  from  the  steps,  over  a  bay  of  fields,  be- 
tween the  plantations,  that  gave  on  a  sea  of  space.  Far  east,  be- 
yond the  demesne:  a  motor,  straining  cautiously  out  of  the  silence. 
A  grind,  an  anguish  of  sound  as  it  took  the  hill. 

'Patrols,'  said  Laurence. 

Hugo  reached  out  and  pressed  a  hand  on  to  Francie's  rug.  'Pa- 
trols,' he  told  her,  translating  the  information. 

Sir  Richard  explained  severely:  'Out  every  night — not  always  in 
this  direction.' 

'They're  early;  it's  half -past  nine.  Now  I  wonder  .  .  ." 

The  sound  paused,  for  a  moment  a  pale  light  showed  up  the  sky 
in  the  darkness.  Then  behind  the  screen  of  trees  at  the  skyline, 


AN   EVENING   IN    ANGLO-IRELAND,    WITH   UNDERTONES   OF   WAR  305 

demesne  boundary,  the  sound  moved  shakily,  stoopingly,  like  some 
one  running  and  crouching  behind  a  hedge.  The  jarring  echoed 
down  the  spines  of  the  listeners.  They  heard  with  a  sense  of  com- 
plicity. 

'A  furtive  lorry  is  a  sinister  thing.' 

'Laurence,  it  isn't  furtive!'  said  Lady  Naylor.  'Can't  you  be  or- 
dinary? If  it  wouldn't  be  taken  in  some  absurd  kind  of  way  as  a 
demonstration,  I  should  ask  the  poor  fellows  in  to  have  coffee.' 

'They're  careful  enough,'  said  Hugo  impatiently.  It  seemed  that 
the  lorry  took  pleasure  in  crawling  with  such  a  menace  along  the 
boundary,  marking  the  scope  of  peace  of  this  silly  island,  un- 
dermining solitude.  In  the  still  night  sound  had  a  breathless- 
ness,  as  of  intention. 

'The  roads  are  so  rough,'  said  Lois:  she  could  see  the  wary  load 
lurching  into  the  hedges.  'I  wonder  now,'  she  added,  'who  is  with  the 
patrol  to-night?' 

'Some  one  you  know?'  cried  Francie.  But  Sir  Richard,  who  did 
not  like  his  friends  to  be  distracted  from  him  by  lorries  any  more 
than  by  introspection  or  headaches  or  the  observation  of  nature, 
bore  this  down  with  one  of  his  major  chords : 

'The  lower  tennis  court,  Hugo' — waving  sideways  into  the  dark- 
ness— 'is  not  what  it  used  to  be.  Some  cattle  got  on  to  it  after  the 
rain  and  destroyed  it.  It's  had  rolling  enough  to  level  a  mountain, 
but  it  won't  be  the  same  for  a  long  time.  D'you  remember  the  fours 
we  had  on  that  court  that  summer — wasn't  it  nineteen-six — you  and 
I  and  O'Donnell  and  poor  John  Trent?' 

'I  do.  Now  was  it  James  O'Donnell  or  Peter  that  went  to  Ceylon?' 

'That  was  a  great  summer;  I  never  remember  a  summer  like  it. 
We  had  the  hay  in  by  the  end  of  June.' 

The  lorry  ground  off  east  towards  Ballyhinch;  silence  sifting 
down  on  its  tracks  like  sand.  Their  world  was  clear  of  it  and  a  pres- 
sure lightened.  Once  more  they  could  have  heard  a  leaf  turn  in  the 
trees  or  a  bird  shifting  along  a  branch.  But  they  found  it  was  now 
very  dark.  Francie  shivered,  and  Lady  Naylor,  rising  formally,  said 
she  thought  they  should  go  in.  'Poor  John  Trent,'  she  added,  gath- 
ering up  her  cushions,  'never  got  over  that  trouble  he  had  with  the 
Sheehans  over  the  Madder  fishing.  It  went  into  court,  you  know, 
and  of  course  he  lost.  We  always  told  him  to  keep  it  out  of  court. 
He  was  very  obstinate.' 


306  ELIZABETH   BOWEN 

'He  was  indeed/  said  Sir  Richard.  'He  made  an  enemy  of  Sheehan 
and  it's  not  a  good  thing  to  have  made  an  enemy.  Though  of  course 
he's  dead  nowadays,  so  it  may  not  matter.' 

It  may  to  the  Archie  Trents.  .  .  .  Laurence,  help  Uncle  Richard 
in  with  the  long  chair,  and  remember  to  bring  in  your  own  chair 
afterwards.' 

'I  never  had  a  chair.' 

'Oh,  they  haven't  lighted  the  lamp  in  the  hall.  That  is  too  bad!  I 
am  lost  without  Sarah — do  you  remember  Sarah,  Francie?  She  died, 
you  know/ 

Lois,  sitting  still  among  rising,  passing  and  vaguely  searching 
figures,  cried:  'But  it's  only  just  beginning!  You're  missing  the  whole 
point.  I  shall  walk  up  the  avenue.' 

Francie  went  in,  groping;  trailing  her  rug.  The  three  men,  carry- 
ing wicker  chairs,  converged  at  the  door;  the  chairs  jostled.  They  all 
put  them  down  and  apologized.  Lois  repeated:  7  shall  walk  up  the 
avenue.'  But  having  arranged  an  order  of  procedure  they  all 
passed  on  into  the  house,  creaking  and  bumping.  She  walked  down 
the  steps  alone:  she  wanted  to  be  alone,  but  to  be  regretted. 

'Mind  you  don't  get  locked  out!'  her  uncle  shouted  after  her.  The 
glass  doors  shut  with  a  rattle. 

Lois  walked  alone  up  the  avenue,  where  she  had  danced  with 
Gerald.  She  thought  what  a  happy  night  that  had  been,  and  how 
foolish  Mr.  Montmorency  now  thought  them.  He  had  seemed 
annoyed  at  her  being  young  when  he  wasn't.  She  could  not  hope  to 
explain  that  her  youth  seemed  to  her  also  rather  theatrical  and  that 
she  was  only  young  in  that  way  because  people  expected  it.  She 
had  never  refused  a  role.  She  could  not  forgo  that  intensification, 
that  kindling  of  her  personality  at  being  considered  very  happy  and 
reckless,  even  if  she  were  not.  She  could  not  hope  to  assure  him 
she  was  not  enjoying  anything  he  had  missed,  that  she  was  now  un- 
convinced and  anxious  but  intended  to  be  quite  certain,  by  the  time 
she  was  his  age,  that  she  had  once  been  happy.  For  to  explain  this — 
were  explanation  possible  to  so  courteous,  ironical  and  unfriendly 
a  listener — would,  she  felt,  be  disloyal  to  herself,  to  Gerald,  to  an 
illusion  both  were  called  upon  to  maintain. 

Just  by  the  lime,  in  that  dancing  night,  she  had  missed  a  step  and 
sagged  on  his  arm,  which  tightened.  His  hand  slid  up  between  her 
shoulders;  then,  as  she  steadied  back  to  the  rhythm,  down  again. 


AN   EVENING   IN   ANGLO -IRELAND,    WITH   UNDERTONES    OF    WAR  307 

They  had  set  out  laughing,  noisy  and  conscious,  but  soon  had  to  save 
their  breath.  Gerald's  cheek,  within  an  inch  of  her  own,  was  too 
near  to  see.  All  the  way  up,  he  had  not  missed  a  step;  he  was  most 
dependable.  And  remembering  how  the  family  had  just  now  gone 
into  the  house — so  flatly,  so  unregrettingly,  slamming  the  glass 
doors — she  felt  that  was  what  she  now  wanted  most — his  eagerness 
and  constancy.  She  felt,  like  a  steady  look  from  him,  the  perfect- 
ness  of  their  being  together. 

'Oh,  I  do  want  you!' 

But  he  was  very  musical,  he  conducted  a  jazz  band  they  had  at 
the  barracks;  while  reaching  out  in  her  thoughts  she  remembered, 
the  band  would  be  practising  now.  She  was  disappointed.  To  a  line 
of  tune  the  thought  flung  her,  she  danced  on  the  avenue. 

A  shrubbery  path  was  solid  with  darkness,  she  pressed  down  it. 
Laurels  breathed  coldly  and  close;  on  her  bare  arms  the  tips  of 
leaves  were  timid  and  dank,  like  tongues  of  dead  animals.  Her  fear 
of  the  shrubberies  tugged  at  its  chain,  fear  behind  reason,  fear  be- 
fore her  birth;  fear  like  the  earliest  germ  of  her  life  that  had  stirred 
in  Laura.  She  went  forward  eagerly,  daring  a  snap  of  the  chain, 
singing;  a  hand  to  the  thump  of  her  heart,  dramatic  with  terror. 
She  thought  of  herself  as  forcing  a  pass.  In  her  life — deprived  as  she 
saw  it — there  was  no  occasion  for  courage,  which  like  an  unused 
muscle  slackened  and  slept. 

High  up  a  bird  shrieked  and  stumbled  down  through  dark,  tear- 
ing the  leaves.  Silence  healed,  but  kept  a  scar  of  horror.  The 
shuttered-in  drawing-room,  the  family  sealed  in  lamplight,  secure 
and  bright  like  flowers  in  a  paper-weight — were  desirable,  worth 
much  of  this  to  regain.  Fear  curled  back  from  the  carpet-border. 
.  .  .  Now,  on  the  path:  grey  patches  worse  than  the  dark:  they 
slipped  up  her  dress  knee-high.  The  laurels  deserted  her  groping 
arm.  She  had  come  to  the  holly,  where  two  paths  crossed. 

First,  she  did  not  hear  footsteps  coming,  and  as  she  began  to 
notice  the  displaced  darkness  thought  what  she  dreaded  was  coming, 
was  there  within  her — she  was  indeed  clairvoyant,  exposed  to  hor- 
ror and  going  to  see  a  ghost.  Then  steps,  hard  on  the  smooth  earth; 
branches  slipping  against  a  trench-coat.  The  trench-coat  rustled 
across  the  path  ahead,  to  the  swing  of  a  steady  walker.  She  stood 
by  the  holly  immovable,  blotted  out  in  her  black,  and  there  passed 
within  reach  of  her  hand,  with  the  rise  and  fall  of  a  stride,  a 


308  ELIZABETH   BOWEN 

resolute  profile,  powerful  as  a  thought.  In  gratitude  for  its  fleshli- 
ness,  she  felt  prompted  to  make  some  contact:  not  to  be  known 
seemed  like  a  doom:  extinction. 

It's  a  fine  night,'  she  would  have  liked  to  observe;  or,  to  engage 
his  sympathies:  'Up  Dublin!'  or  even — since  it  was  in  her  uncle's 
demesne  she  was  straining  under  a  holly — boldly — 'What  do  you 
want?' 

It  must  be  because  of  Ireland  he  was  in  such  a  hurry;  down  from 
the  mountains,  making  a  short  cut  through  their  demesne.  Here 
was  something  else  that  she  could  not  share.  She  could  not  con- 
ceive of  her  country  emotionally:  it  was  a  way  of  living,  an  abstract 
of  several  landscapes,  or  an  oblique  frayed  island,  moored  at  the 
north  but  with  an  air  of  being  detached  and  washed  out  west  from 
the  British  coast. 

Quite  still,  she  let  him  go  past  in  contemptuous  unawareness. 
His  intentions  burnt  on  the  dark  an  almost  visible  trail;  he  might  well 
have  been  a  murderer  he  seemed  so  inspired.  The  crowd  of  trees, 
straining  up  from  passive  disputed  earth,  each  sucking  up  and  ex- 
haling the  country's  essence — swallowed  him  finally.  She  thought: 
'Has  he  come  for  the  guns?'  A  man  in  a  trench-coat  had  passed 
without  seeing  her:  that  was  what  it  amounted  to. 

She  ran  back  to  tell,  in  excitement.  Below,  the  house  waited; 
vast  on  its  west  side,  with  thin  yellow  lines  round  the  downstairs 
shutters.  It  had  that  excluded,  sad,  irrelevant  look  outsides  of  houses 
take  in  the  dark.  Inside,  they  would  all  be  drawing  up  closer  to  one 
another,  tricked  by  the  half-revelation  of  lamp-light.  'Compassed 
about,'  thought  Lois,  'by  so  great  a  cloud  of  witnesses.  .  .  .'  Chairs 
standing  round  dejectedly;  upstairs,  the  confidently  waiting  beds; 
mirrors  vacant  and  startling;  books  read  and  forgotten,  contribut- 
ing no  more  to  life;  dinner-table  certain  of  its  regular  compulsion;  the 
procession  of  elephants  that  throughout  uncertain  years  had  not 
broken  file. 

But  as  Lois  went  up  the  steps  breathlessly,  her  adventure  began 
to  diminish.  It  held  ground  for  a  moment  as  she  saw  the  rug 
dropped  in  the  hall  by  Mrs.  Montmorency  sprawl  like  a  body 
across  the  polish.  Then  confidence  disappeared,  in  a  waver  of 
shadow,  among  the  furniture.  Conceivably,  she  had  just  surprised 
life  at  a  significant  angle  in  the  shrubbery.  But  it  was  impossible  to 
speak  of  this.  At  a  touch  from  Aunt  Myra  adventure  became  lit- 
erary, to  Uncle  Richard  it  suggested  an  inconvenience;  a  glance 


AN   EVENING   IN   ANGLO-IRELAND,    WITH   UNDERTONES    OF   WAR  309 

from  Mr.  Montmorency  or  Laurence  would  make  her  encounter 
sterile. 

But  what  seemed  most  probable  was  that  they  would  not  listen. 
.  .  .  She  lighted  her  candle  and  went  up  to  bed — uncivilly,  with- 
out saying  good  night  to  anyone.  Her  Uncle  Richard,  she  after- 
wards heard,  was  obliged  to  sit  up  till  twelve  o'clock.  He  had  not 
been  told  she  was  in,  so  did  not  think  it  right  to  lock  up  the  house. 


SEAN    O    FAOLAIN 

Midsummer  Night  Madness1 

r  or  a  second  I  looked  back  into  the  city,  down  through  the  smoke 
at  the  clustered  chimney-pots  and  roofs  on  whose  purples  and 
greens  and  blues  the  summer  night  was  falling  as  gently  as  dust,  fall- 
ing too  on  the  thousand  tiny  beacons  winking  and  blinking  beneath 
me  to  their  starry  counterparts  above.  It  was  just  the  curfew  hour 
and  the  last  few  laggard  couples  went  hurrying  past  me,  their  love- 
making  ended  abruptly  for  the  night,  lest  the  Tans  in  their  roaring 
Lancia  patrol-cars  should  find  them  conspicuous  on  the  empty  white 
streets  of  the  city.  Then  I  turned  to  the  open  fields  and  drew  in  a 
long  draught  of  their  sweetness,  their  May-month  sweetness,  as  only 
a  man  could  who  had  been  cooped  up  for  months  past  under  one  of 
those  tiny  roofs,  seeing  the  life  of  men  and  women  only  through  a 
peephole  in  a  window-blind,  seeing  these  green  fields  only  in  the 
far  distance  from  an  attic  skylight.  Mounting  my  bicycle  I  left  the 
last  gas-lamp  behind,  and  the  pavement  end,  and  rode  on  happily 
in  the  open  country. 

Yet,  though  the  countryside  was  very  sweet  to  me  after  all  those 
months  among  the  backyards,  worried  and  watchful  lest  I  should 
run  into  a  chance  patrol  or  raiding-party,  I  kept  listening,  not  to  the 
chorus  of  the  birds,  not  to  the  little  wind  in  the  bushes  by  the  way, 
but  nervously  to  every  distant,  tiny  sound — the  chuckle  of  a  wakeful 
goose  or  hen  in  a  near-by  farmyard,  or  the  fall  of  water  coming  sud- 
denly within  earshot,  or  some  animal  starting  away  from  the  hedge 
where  I  surprised  its  drowsing  heavy  head,  and  once  I  halted  dead, 
my  grip  tight  on  the  brakes  when  a  donkey  brayed  suddenly  and 
loudly  as  if  he  were  laughing  at  the  intense  quietness  of  the  night. 
Fallen  hawthorn  blossoms  splashed  with  their  lime  the  dust  of  the 
road,  and  so  narrow  were  the  boreens  in  places  that  the  lilac  and  the 
dog-rose,  hung  with  wisps  of  hay,  reached  down  as  if  to  be  plucked, 
and  under  the  over-hanging  trees  I  could  smell  the  pungent  smell  of 
the  laurel  sweating  in  the  damp  night-air.  And  all  about  me  the 
dead  silence  of  the  coming  night,  unless  a  little  stream  trickled  over 
the  road  and  my  wheels  made  a  great  double  splash  as  they  crossed 
it;  then  once  again  the  heavy  silence,  drowsy  with  the  odours  of  the 
night-flowers   and  the   cut  meadows. 

1  From   Midsummer  Night  Madness  and   Other  Stories,   New  York,    1932. 

310 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  311 

I  was  on  my  way  to  the  townlands  of  Farrane  and  Kilcrea,  to  see 
why  to  all  appearances  the  local  battalion  had  been  completely  in- 
active for  the  last  three  or  four  months.  That  portion  of  my  task  I 
did  not  relish  for  I  had  known  and  been  friendly  with  Stevey  Long, 
the  commandant,  ever  since  the  chances  of  revolution  threw  us 
together.  Still  I  should  be  free  of  the  open  fields  for  a  few  days,  and 
there  was  enough  romance  left  in  the  revolution  for  me  to  be  ex- 
cited at  the  thought  that  I  was  to  stay  at  a  house  I  had  known  and 
wondered  at  since  childhood;  I  might  even  see  and  meet,  if  he  were 
still  alive,  its  strange  mad  owner  whom  as  children  we  thought  more 
terrifying  than  any  of  the  ogres  in  the  fairy-books — old  Henn 
of  Henn  Hall. 

But  I  could  hardly  credit  that  he  was  still  alive,  for  even  when 
we  were  very  young  my  mother  always  spoke  of  him  as  'that  old 
devil'  or  'that  old  cripple'  of  a  Henn.  And  an  old  devil  he  was, 
living  up  there  all  alone,  in  what  she  used  to  call  his  'rooky-rawky' 
of  a  house,  never  married  but  always  in  a  state  of  marriage  with 
some  woman  or  other.  He  began,  I  could  well  believe,  with  women 

of  his  own  class,  officers'  wives  from  the  barracks  at  B ,  or  Cork, 

or  perhaps  with  what  we  used  call  'horsey  women'  from  some 
neighbouring  or  English  hunt.  But  judging  by  his  later  life,  he  can- 
not have  been  over-particular  at  any  time  in  his  choice  of  women, 
and  many  a  tinted  London  beauty  must  have  walked  his  fields, 
looking  in  utter  boredom  at  the  gulls  flying  after  the  plough  or  the 
rain  hanging  in  the  bare  trees,  until  finally,  like  all  her  predecessors 
and  successors  of  many  years,  she  in  her  turn  cursed  Henn  and  his 
Hall,  and  Ireland  and  all  belonging  to  it,  and  went  back  gladly  to 
the  flickering  city  lights  and  the  back  streets,  and  the  familiar  loved 
smells  of  gas-lit  theatres  and  stuffy  hansom-cabs.  Clearly,  a  man  who 
lived  by  the  things  of  the  body — women,  wine,  hunting,  fishing, 
shooting.  My  mother  often  told  us  how  as  she  and  a  crowd  of 
schoolgirl  friends  were  returning  from  their  first  Communion  one 
cold  autumn  afternoon  they  entered  his  fields  to  take  a  short  way 
by  the  river  to  their  homes,  removing  their  new  shoes  and  stockings 
as  they  always  did  when  they  left  the  high  road,  and  they  came  on 
Henn — and  he  was  a  grown  man  then — standing  in  his  pelt  by 
the  river,  ready  for  a  swim.  She  used  shudder  as  she  told  how  he 
chased  them,  and  they  ran  from  him,  screaming  with  fear,  throwing 
away  the  new  shoes  and  stockings  as  they  ran,  their  legs  all  torn  on 
the  withered  rushes  of  the  bog  and  the  furzed  hedgetops,  not  daring 


312  SEAN  o'faolain 

to  look  back  to  see  if  the  naked  'madman'  were  catching  up  with 
them,  until,  as  she  said,  they  had  left  his  fields  'forty  miles  behind,' 
and  panting  and  exhausted  they  ran  into  their  homes.  Henn  must 
have  been  delighted  with  his  frolic,  and  I  can  see  him,  running  back 
for  his  swim,  his  long  legs  and  his  long  neck  that  gave  him  the  nick- 
name of  'Henn's  Neck,'  cutting  through  the  air  as  he  ran.  And  he 
must  have  been  especially  delighted  when  in  the  late  evening  the 
fathers  and  brothers  of  the  children  came  looking  here  and  there 
timidly  for  the  little  blue  or  red  socks  and  the  black  shoes.  It  was 
only  one  of  many  such  escapades  that  my  mother  knew,  all  spread- 
ing the  name  and  legend  of  madness  that  clung  to  him  through  his 
life.  We  needed  few  such  warnings  to  avoid  him  and  his  estate,  but 
we  used  to  say  to  each  other,  somebody's  warning  half-understood, 
that  if  Henn  caught  a  little  girl  lie'd  salt  her,'  and  we  went  in 
mortal  terror  of  him  and  his  salting  for  years.  No  wonder  we  used 
say  that  he  had  wires  hidden  under  his  fields  and  if  you  crossed  even 
one  of  his  ditches  bells  would  ring  up  in  the  Hall  and  he  would 
come  galloping  on  a  white  horse  with  his  hungry  hounds  to  salt 
you. 

It  was  a  wonderful  old  house  to  look  at,  and  often  we  looked  at  it 
from  far  off,  sitting  up  on  its  own  high  hill,  its  two  gable  chim- 
neys like  two  cocked  ears  and  all  its  empty  windows  gazing  wide- 
eyed  down  the  river-valley — very  tall,  with  a  wide  door  whose  steps 
curled  down  and  around  like  moustaches.  The  place  was  a  pale 
rain-faded  pink  at  the  end,  but  it  was  often  called  the  Red  House, 
and  if  it  was  ever  really  the  Red  House  it  must  have  been  visible  for 
miles  to  anyone  driving  westward  to  Crookstown  along  the  val- 
ley, following  the  little  river  and  its  dark  line  of  woods.  Yet,  as  I 
tried  to  recall  it  now,  only  one  impression  remained,  for  we  came 
into  the  city  when  I  was  quite  young  and  there  I  soon  forgot  the 
Hall;  but  at  least  two  or  three  times  afterwards  my  father  took  me 
on  an  unusually  long  walk  in  that  direction,  and  each  time  when  he 
returned  he  said  to  my  mother,  'We  could  just  see  the  Red  House 
up  the  valley  beyond  Kilnaglory.'  And  each  time  she  said,  'Glory 
be  to  God,  I  wonder  is  that  old  devil  Henn  alive  yet?'  and  told  us 
all  over  again  how  he  chased  them  in  his  pelt  when  they  were  little 
children.  One  of  these  walks  was  on  a  soft  wintry  day  with  packed 
clouds  threatening  to  drop  rain  every  minute,  and  the  Lee  and  the 
Rride  in  flood,  and  the  tall  bare  beeches  with  the  rooks'  nests  in 
their  tip-tops  swayed  and  swung  in  the  hard  wind.  The  roads  were 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  313 

muddy  in  places  and  there  were  many  potholes  full  of  rain  or  liq- 
uid dung  and  they  were  all  wrinkled  in  the  breeze  and  the  flooded 
river  ran  frothing  and  brown  and  storm-blown  by  the  very  edge  of 
the  road.  Off  up  the  sodden  valley,  high  on  its  rounded  hill  sat 
Henn's  house,  and  it  was  really  more  red  than  pink  that  day  be- 
cause of  the  rain,  and  as  we  looked  at  it  one  solitary  window  showed 
a  light.  At  the  same  time  the  cold,  yellow  sky  behind  it  was  turning 
to  a  most  marvellous  red  as  of  blood,  and  the  scarlet  light  blackened 
every  leafless  twig  and  already  rain-black  and  rain-green  tree-trunk 
that  stood  against  it  and  every  ditch  and  scooped  riverbank,  and 
lastly  the  road  and  the  very  sky  itself  became  swarthy,  and  there 
was  light  only  in  the  waves  curling  the  river,  and  the  pot-holes  of 
the  road.  When  the  solitary  window  shone  my  father  said,  'That's 
old  Henn,'  and  I  pictured  him  as  an  old  man  with  a  beard  and 
long  claw-hands  half  into  the  glowing  ashes,  so  that  I  said,  'I  think, 
father,  it's  going  to  be  thunder  and  lightning,'  and  he  looked  and 
said,  It  might,'  and  to  my  joy  we  turned  our  backs  on  Henn  and 
his  house  and  faced  for  the  lights  and  the  crowds  and  the  shop- 
windows  of  the  city. 

Really,  I  am  sure,  that  was  not  Henn;  he  would  certainly  have 
been  down  at  the  bridge-head  with  his  rods  and  his  basket  and  his 
gillie.  But  when  those  same  winter  rains  streamed  down  the  cur- 
tainless  windows  now,  would  he  not  have  to  stand  watching  it,  back- 
bent — if  indeed  he  still  lived — shivering  in  the  bay,  and  return  to 
crouch  sadly — not  so  far  removed  from  my  childish  picture  of  him — 
over  his  perpetual  summer-to-summer  fire? 

You  may  pity  him  as  I  tell  you  of  him,  but  I,  riding  along  the 
darkling  lanes  that  night,  had  nothing  in  my  heart  for  him  but  hate. 
He  was  one  of  the  class  that  had  battened  for  too  long  on  our  poor 
people,  and  I  was  quite  pleased  to  think  that  if  he  lived  it  was  only 
in  name;  that  if  he  had  any  charm  at  all  left  he  would  need  it  all 
now  to  attract  even  the  coarsest  women.  For  no  London  light-o'-love 
would  be  attracted  to  his  ruin  of  a  house  now  for  other  reasons. 

Perhaps  he  was  beyond  all  that,  and  if  he  was  not,  he  would  be 
like  Juan  in  old  age,  for  the  farmers'  daughters  for  miles  around 
would  shun  him  as  they  would  the  plague,  and  for  such  a  man  as 
Henn  to  descend  to  the  women  of  the  passing  tinkers  for  whom 
alone  his  house  would  appear  even  yet  a  big  house,  was  out  of  the 
question.  And  yet  not  even  his  maids  who  came  from  a  distance 
would  be  in  the  house  a  day  without  hearing  all  about  him  from  the 


314  SEAN  o'faolain 

neighbours.  Perhaps,  after  all,  the  tinkers  would  have  to  suf- 
fice? But,  thinking  of  the  big  Red  House,  with  its  terraced  lawns, 
and  its  cypresses  and  its  yews,  and  its  great  five-mile  estate  wall,  all 
built  by  the  first  Henn,  the  founder  not  only  of  his  line  but  of  an 
industry — glass-making,  and  long  since  disappeared  from  Ireland — I 
could  not  believe  that  even  such  a  house  would  fall  so  low. 


As  I  came  to  a  crossways  where  my  road  dropped  swiftly  downhill 
the  tenting  chestnuts  filled  the  lanes  with  darkness  as  of  pitchy 
night,  and  under  my  wheels  the  lain  dust  was  soft  as  velvet.  Before 
I  took  this  last  turn  on  my  way  I  looked  back  the  road  I  had  come 
and  saw  upthrown  behind  the  hill  that  distant  glow  of  the  city's 
lights,  a  furnace-glow  that  made  me  realize  how  near  and  how  far 
I  was  to  the  roofs  and  chimneys  I  had  left.  But  as  I  looked  I  saw,  too, 
how  the  clouds  were  gathering  like  pale  flowers  over  the  inky  sky 
and  even  as  I  dropped  silently  downhill  the  first  drops  beat  the 
fronded  layers  above.  On  my  left,  high  as  two  men,  rose  the  estate 
walls  that  had  once  kept  the  whole  countryside  at  bay  but  could  not 
now  (gapped  and  crumbling  as  they  were)  keep  a  fox  out  or  a 
chicken  in.  I  passed  two  great  entrance-gates  sunken  in  the  weeds. 
Then  the  pale  ghostlike  pillars  of  the  third  gate  came  in  view  across 
a  gap  in  the  tunnel  where  the  rain  was  beating  down  the 
..dust,  gradually  changing  its  pattering  blows  for  the  hissing  sound  of 
a  real  downpour.  Head  bowed  I  raced  across  the  unsheltered  patch 
and  edged  my  bicycle  through  the  creaking  gate  and  was  just 
abreast  of  the  little  Gothic  door  of  the  lodge  when  it  swung  open 
and  a  woman  stepped  suddenly  through  the  laurels  and  caught  my 
arm,  saying  roughly  and  passionately  as  she  did  so: 

'Stevey,  why  did  you  go  away?  Henn  was  down  again  tonight. 
Stevey,  I  .  .  .' 

Astonished,  I  made  no  sound.  The  rain  beat  down  on  us,  blotting 
out  stars  and  moon  alike. 

'Stevey/  she  went  on,  1  can't  help  it.  .  .  .' 

Then  she  saw  her  mistake,  and  dropped  my  hand. 

Tm  sorry,'  she  said,  T  thought  .  .  .'  I  laughed  to  put  her  at  her 
ease. 

'You  thought  I  was  Stevey  Long/ 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  315 

She  turned  and  went  back  to  the  door  and  seeing  me  from  there 
look  after  her  she  cried  out  roughly: 

'Go  on!' 

And  because  I  was  slow  in  moving  for  all  the  falling  rain,  she 
cried  again: 

'Go  on  about  your  business.  Go  on!' 

'What  a  rough,  passionate  creature!'  I  was  saying  to  myself,  only 
by  degrees  recovering  from  my  surprise  as  I  began  to  wheel  my 
bicycle  up  the  avenue,  when  I  heard  her  steps  behind  me  and  felt 
her  grip  on  my  arm  once  more.  She  beckoned  and  drew  me  back  into 
the  shadow  of  one  of  the  sheltering  trees  beside  the  little  house  and 
with  the  only  grace  she  was  capable  of  leant  insinuatingly  close 
to  me,  fingering  my  lapel,  and  said  in  her  hollow  mannish  voice: 

'You  know  Stevey  Long?' 

'Yes,  of  course  I  do.' 

'Are  you  the  boy  he  was  bringing  to  the  Hall  to  stay?' 

'Yes.' 

'He  told  me  about  you.  You  know  him  well,  don't  you?' 

'I  know  Stevey  for  a  long  time.' 

'He  told  me  you  were  in  jail  with  him  once.' 

'Did  he  tell  you  that?  I  was.  Oh,  yes!  Stevey  and  I  had  many  a 
bout  together.' 

She  paused.  Then  in  a  low  trembling  voice  she  said,  'Do  you 
know  his  girl?' 

'His  girl?' 

'Yes.  He  told  me  all  about  her.  He  said  you  know  her  too.  Tell 
me  .  .  .  where  is  she?' 

Her  voice  was  strained  against  the  leash,  became  passionately  in- 
tent in  spite  of  her.  I  did  not  want  to  be  caught  by  her  country 
trickery,  and  I  looked  into  her  face  by  the  light  of  the  little  window, 
as  one  always  looks  into  the  face  of  a  person  one  doubts,  from  eye  to 
eye  searching  for  the  truth.  Seeing  me  hesitate  she  caught  my  arm 
the  more  fiercely. 

'Tell  me!'     ' 

'Why,  I  suppose  you  are  Stevey's  girl,'  I  bantered. 

'Tell  me,  boy!  She  sent  him  letters  to  jail,  didn't  she?  Oh,  for 
Christ's  sake,  go  on  and  tell  me!' 

She  had  me  by  the  two  arms  now,  her  full  bosom  almost  touching 
mine,  so  close  to  me  that  I  could  see  the  pouches  under  her  eyes,  her 
mouth  dragged  down  wet  and  sensual,  the  little  angry  furrow  be- 


316  SEAN   OFAOLAIN 

tween  her  eye-brows.  The  wind  shook  the  heavy  leaves  of  the  chest- 
nuts and  as  they  scattered  benediction  on  us  the  light  from  the  little 
Gothic  window  shone  on  their  wet  leaves,  and  on  her  bosom  and 
chest  and  knees.  For  a  second  I  thought  her  blue  apron  drooped 
over  her  too  rich,  too  wide  hips.  But  when  I  would  not  speak  she 
shook  me  like  a  dog  and  growled  at  me  so  fiercely  that  I  could  not 
refuse  to  reply. 

T  don't  know/  I  said.  'She  just  sent  letters  to  us,  to  Stevey  of 
course,  and  cigarettes  and  fruit  and  things — that's  all.  I  don't  know!' 

She  threw  me  away  so  that  I  all  but  stumbled  over  my  bike. 

T  knew  it  was  true,'  she  moaned.  'I  knew  it  was  true  when  they 
said  it.' 

'But  anyone  might  write  him  a  letter.  .  .  .' 

'He  denied  it.  He  denied  he  ever  got  a  letter  from  her.' 

In  open  country  it  is  surprising  how  the  voice  sometimes  echoes. 
Under  those  trees  her  voice  resounded  so  that  I  feared  she  would  be 
heard  up  at  the  Hall  or  down  in  the  village. 

'The  liar.  He's  going  to  marry  that  wan.  That's  the  wan  he  wants. 
The  shcut!  And  look  what  he's  going  to  do  now.' 

Her  great  bosom  rose  and  fell  in  rage. 

'Do?'  I  asked.  "What  is  he  going  to  do?' 

'Who'd  mind  Henn?  I  ought  to  know.  But  Stevey.  But  Stevey, 
with  his  grand  talk.  He  said  hed  never  harm  me.  But  I  won't 
marry  him.  I  won't  marry  him.   I  won't.   I  won't!' 

And  she  turned  and  ran  in  to  the  lodge,  leaving  me  with  the  feel- 
ing that  this  Hall  and  estate  and  country-side  had  an  unpleasant, 
real  life  of  its  own,  a  life  that  would  spoil  for  me  the  few  days  of 
quietness  that  I  had  been  dreaming  of  this  last  hour  as  I  cycled  be- 
tween the  hedgerows.  I  scarcely  noticed  that  the  sudden  summer 
shower  had  ceased  as  I  made  slowly  up  the  mossed  drive,  dark  with 
unpruned  trees  and  black  laurel.  Everything  here  too  seemed  to 
send  up  its  sweetness  into  the  soft  wet  air,  even  the  weeds  bursting 
through  the  gravel,  and  when  I  came  to  the  front  of  the  house  the 
great  dark  cypresses  might  in  the  wet  failing  light  have  been  plumes 
of  billowy  smoke  that  rose  against  the  sky.  I  was  now  on  the  terrace 
before  the  Hall,  and  as  I  looked  down  into  the  valley  to  where  the 
sound  of  the  waters  of  the  Bride  rose  murmuring  through  the  air 
purified  by  the  shower,  I  almost  expected  to  see  the  old  libertine 
come  floating  up  like  a  spectre  or  a  long-legged  ogre  through  the 
hills. 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  317 

I  found  my  way,  as  I  had  been  instructed  to  do,  to  the  rear  of  the 
house  and  in  by  the  servants'  quarters  to  the  great  kitchen.  The  pale 
still  light  of  a  candle  on  the  table  filled  the  room,  and  at  the  foot  of 
the  table  beneath  it  was  a  basin  of  dusty  milk,  and  before  the  em- 
bers an  old  sheep-dog  yawned  and  stretched  his  legs.  I  sat  down  by 
the  fire,  and,  glad  of  the  rest,  began  to  try  to  understand  what  it  was 
that  so  troubled  the  girl  at  the  lodge,  with  her  passionate  raging  out- 
burst against  Stevey,  her  cry,  1  won't  marry  him,  I  won't  marry  him.' 
But  almost  on  my  heels  I  heard  the  sound  of  feet  mashing  the  gravel 
outside  and  she  came  into  the  kitchen. 

Tut  on  some  turf,  boy/  she  said  at  once.  'And  blow  up  the  fire.' 

As  I  laid  on  the  brown  peat  and  sat  by  the  side  of  the  machine 
turning  its  handle  she  began  to  lay  the  table  for  my  supper.  Then 
we  heard  somebody  else  approach  outside,  and  with  a  sudden  shake 
of  her  fist  to  me  by  way  of  warning,  she  opened  the  door  to  Stevey. 
To  her  he  gave  a  mere  'Hullo,  Gypsy.' 

To  me  he  gave  a  cordial,  'Here  we  are  again,'  and  he  shook  my 
hand  several  times  and  told  me  how  glad  he  was  to  see  me  safe  and 
sound.  Sullenly  the  girl  broke  in  on  us  with: 

'Put  the  kettle  on,  Stevey,  for  the  boy's  supper,'  and  sent  me  out 
to  the  rain-barrel  for  some  water.  I  rose  and  went,  and  as  I  passed 
the  window,  there  she  was  struggling  out  of  his  arms  like  a  wild  ani- 
mal. But  when  I  returned  she  was  again  by  the  table,  and  he  was 
bending  down  over  the  fire,  swinging  the  great  iron  kettle  forward 
on  its  crane  to  be  filled.  I  lay  back  in  the  old  basket  chair  and 
watched  him  move  silently  about  the  kitchen,  finding  everything 
where  he  expected  to  find  it,  his  fair  flock  of  curls  all  about  his  neck 
and  brow  like  a  mountainy  sheep,  his  knees  flinging  apart  at  every 
step  as  they  always  did,  and  his  hangdog  head  and  his  rounded 
shoulders  more  slouched  than  ever. 

Since  they  would  not  speak  to  one  another  I  began  to  ask  random 
questions;  the  name  of  this  or  that  townland;  whether  this  or  that 
family  were  still  alive,  and  they  answered  civilly  enough  but  would 
never  talk  a  word  to  one  another. 

A  nice  companionable  house  I  have  come  to!  I  was  grumbling 
to  myself;  and  a  nice  pair  of  quarrelsome  suspicious  lovers!  And  I 
was  wondering  if  I  should  really  have  come  to  this  house  at  all, 
or  if  I  was  to  have  any  pleasure  in  my  few  days  of  freedom,  when 
suddenly  Gypsy  broke  silence  to  say  that  a  lorry-load  of  Tans  had 
gone  past  two  hours  ago  on  the  valley  road,  'roaring,'  she  said 


318  SEAN  o'faolain 

'with  the  great  venom  and  the  drink/  shooting  over  the  thatch 
of  the  houses  in  the  village;  they  had,  she  even  heard,  killed  a 
child  and  gone  on  without  a  thought,  laughing  at  the  terror  of 
the  villagers.  At  that  Stevey  burst  into  a  terrible  profane  rage,  but 
he  caught  my  eye  and  fell  silent.  He  knew  my  thought — if  he  had 
not  been  so  inactive  for  the  past  four  months  the  Tans  would  not 
be  roaring  their  way  so  daringly  through  his  territory  now.  'Did 
anyone  come  to  warn  me?'  he  asked. 

'Aye.  The  girl  of  the  Mullinses.'  And  she  added,  'The  boys  are 
wild  tonight/ 

I  wished  Stevey  would  turn  to  see  me  sneering  at  him.  I  had 
something  to  go  on  already,  I  thought,  and  I  was  looking  forward 
to  my  talk  with  him,  when  the  girl  would  leave  us  to  ourselves.  But 
his  mind  began  to  wander  from  the  Tans  and  he  began  to  hum 
moodily  to  himself  like  a  man  with  something  gnawing  at  his  brain, 
until,  at  last,  unable  to  keep  silent  any  longer  he  came  out  with  a 
very  casual: 

'Was,  eh,  was  Henn  down  tonight,  Gyp?' 

I  could  see  her  turn  towards  me  as  she  answered  with  a 
brazen  'No/ 

Then  she  said  under  her  breath  to  him: 

'He  knows  what  he'd  get  if  he  came/ 

At  once  everything  changed.  Stevey  burst  suddenly  into  a  wild 
roar  of  song,  his  old  favourite  'Night  of  Stars  and  Night  of  Love/ 
the  barcarolle  from  Hoffman — and  he  echoed  it  through  the  empty 
house  so  that  even  Gypsy  gave  me  a  wry  smile  as  she  bade  me  sit 
up  to  supper. 

'By  God,  John/  he  cried  at  me,  'we'll  give  those  bastards  of  Tans 
something  to  think  about.  Won't  we,  girl?' 

And  he  caught  her  up  whirling  her  into  a  corner  of  the  room  so 
that  she  screamed  with  sudden  delight  and  in  mock  fear  of 
his  rough  hands.  Stevey  drew  a  long  comical  face  at  his  stupidity, 
and  she  smoothed  herself  down  and  said  she  was  all  right,  and  so 
they  sat  in  a  corner  of  the  huge  fireplace  while  I,  with  my  back  to 
them,  ate  my  salted  rashers  and  my  country  bread  and  butter. 

'Ate  up,  there,  John/  he  said;  and  then  I  heard  them  kissing 
secretly. 

T  am  tired/  I  said. 

'That's  the  man/  said  Stevey,  and  they  kissed  again  and  she  gig- 
gled to  herself,  and  turning  I  found  her  tousling  his  already  wild 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  319 

mop  because  he  was  making  too  free  of  her  where  she  sat  on  his 
knee. 

'She  has  great  titties,  John,'  said  Stevey  coarsely,  and  she  slapped 
his  face  for  that,  and  as  I  went  on  with  my  supper  I  heard  him  kiss 
her  in  return.  So  they  made  their  love  in  the  dark  corner,  shame- 
lessly, until  I  was  almost  finished  and  ready  for  Stevey,  and  then 
they  rose  suddenly  and  left  me,  to  walk,  as  they  said,  down  to  the 
village  now  that  it  was  so  fine  in  the  heel  of  the  day.  Stevey  waved 
me  aside  when  I  wanted  to  detain  him,  saying  the  night  was  long 
and  tomorrow  was  good  too.  So  I  was  alone  in  the  Hall,  listening  to 
the  corncrake  at  his  last  dim  rattle  in  the  meadows  and  the  doves 
fluting  long  and  slow  in  the  deep  woods  through  the  fallen  dark. 

As  I  lit  my  pipe  and  smoked  under  the  shadow  of  the  fireplace  I 
began  to  feel  that  I  should  not  have  come  to  this  house  at  all.  True 
it  was  safe  because  it  was  the  home  of  one  of  the  'garrison'  people, 
one  of  those  thousand  unofficial  blockhouses  of  the  English  on  Irish 
soil,  the  last  place  to  be  suspected  of  harbouring  a  rebel.  But  with 
Stevey's  girl — or  rather,  knowing  him  as  I  did — one  of  his  girls  in  the 
same  house,  this  was  not  a  suitable  place  for  the  investigator  of 
Stevey's  short-comings.  But,  as  when  I  came  along  the  road,  the 
quietness  and  the  peace  gradually  drove  all  other  thoughts  out  of 
my  head.  The  city,  I  thought,  would  by  now  be  as  empty  as  if  it  had 
been  deserted,  the  Lancias  booming  along  the  naked  streets,  their 
searchlights  shooting  down  the  dark  lanes  and  the  side  alleys,  and 
the  funeral  tramp-tramp,  tramp-tramp  of  the  patrols  taking  with 
them  from  every  door  they  passed  its  heavy  sigh  of  suspended  fear. 
All  this  Stevey  had  escaped.  Not  for  him  as  for  us,  for  months  on 
end,  the  sight  of  a  rusted  roof  in  a  city  backyard,  the  stale  odour  of 
airless  bedrooms.  Strange  to  think  that  one  could  work  better  in 
that  sort  of  a  room  than  where  the  walls  were  deep  in  lush  grass  and 
the  springtime  rain  green-dripping  from  the  trees  into  the  water- 
butts  and  the  cupped  flowers. 

The  great  front  door  banged,  its  echoes  thundering,  and  steps 
clanked  in  the  front  hall.  Another  door  opened  and  was  closed 
again.  The  night  had  settled  down  about  the  Hall,  seeped  into  the 
woods,  calming  the  doves,  and  only  the  old  tireless  croaker  kept  up 
his  ceaseless  cry.  A  door  opened  again  and  steps  shuffled  along  the 
passage  and  halted;  then  an  old  man's  voice  coughed  and  called 
wheedlingly. 

'Gypsy?' 


320 


SEAN    OFAOLAIN 


I  was  silent  and  again  the  old  voice  wheedled,  now  almost  at  the 
kitchen  door: 

Is  he  gone,  Gypsy?  Are  you  there,  my  pretty?' 

And  as  I  said  nothing  the  shuffling  came  nearer  and  the  stick- 
tapping  and  coughing,  and  Mad  Henn  stood  peering  at  me  around 
the  candle-flame.  I  knew  him  at  once  by  his  long  collarless  neck  and 
his  stork's  legs,  and  his  madman's  face  beaked  and  narrow  like  a 
hen. 

Even  here  indoors  he  wore  a  little  faded  bowler-hat  cocked  airily 
on  one  side  of  his  head,  and  over  his  shoulders  and  draping  his 
body  a  rug.  He  had  the  face  of  a  bird,  mottled  and  bead-eyed,  and 
his  hair,  tawny  in  streaks  with  the  blister  of  oil,  had  one  lock  at 
the  back  that  stood  out  like  a  cock's  comb.  As  he  looked  at  me  for  a 
moment  he  pulled  the  loose  flesh  of  his  throat  or  scraped  with  one 
finger  the  tawny  scum  about  his  lips  as  if  he  were  trying  to  remem- 
ber whether  he  might  not  have  asked  me  to  come  there  or  had  some 
business  with  me  that  he  had  forgotten.  I  stood  up  awkwardly. 

'Gypsy  is  gone  for  a  walk  with  Stevey,   Mister  Henn,'  I  said. 

'And  who  might  you  be,  young  man,  if  I  might  ask  a  polite  ques- 
tion?' his  eyebrows  working  up  and  down  with  irritation  and  the 
strain  of  having  to  speak. 

1  .  .  .  I'm  a  friend  of  Mr.  Long's/ 

He  sniffed  so  that  a  drop  fell  from  his  beaked  nose. 

'Mister  Long,'  he  muttered  in  scorn.  'So  you're  another  of  'em  are 
you?  Eh?  Are  you?' 

'I  don't  quite  understand,'  I  said,  and  mentally  cursed  Stevey  for 
not  having  arranged  things  better  than  this  for  me.  For  the  old  fel- 
low began  to  pound  with  his  heel  on  the  floor  and  his  legs  and 
hands  twitched  for  rage  so  that  I  expected  him  every  second  to 
turn  me  out  of  his  house  at  the  point  of  his  stick. 

'I  suppose,  I  say/  he  piped  sardonically  again,  'I  suppose  you're 
another  one  of  our  new  patriots?  Eh?  Eh?  I  suppose  you  think  you 
can  walk  into  any  man's  house  and  sit  on  his  armchair  and  drink  his 
liquor,  eh?  And  threaten  him  if  he  protests  against  you  for  a  cad 
and  a  bully,  eh?  You're  another  of  those,  are  you?' 

He  held  a  decanter  in  his  right  hand,  and  it  filled  with  dancing 
liquor.  I  thought  it  best  to  humour  him. 

'I  beg  your  pardon,  indeed,  Mister  Henn,'  I  said  as  humbly  as  I 
knew  how,  for  I  did  not  want  a  quarrel  with  the  old  devil.  I'm 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  321 

sorry  if  I  have  intruded.  But  I  didn't  mean  to.  I  think  I  have  made  a 
mistake — and  I'll  try  if  I  can  find  the  servant,  or  .  .  .  find  Stevey, 
that  is  .  .  .  wherever  they  are  .  .  .  just  now.' 

It  was  a  very  undignified  speech,  but  it  seemed  to  strike  the  old 
man  with  astonishment. 

'Ho!'  he  said.  'This  is  a  new  one.  Quite  polite,  in  fact.  You're 
not  very  long  on  the  road,  young  man,'  he  added  with  an  air  of  bitter 
experience. 

'That's  all  right,'  I  said,  as  I  turned  sullenly  to  go. 

He  halted  me  as  I  laid  my  hand  on  the  door-latch — where  I  was 
going  to  I  did  not  know. 

'Here!  It  is  all  right.  Your  apology  is  perfectly  all  right.  Don't  go, 
boy.  Don't  you  go.' 

At  the  word  'here'  I  noticed  how  tenderly  he  said  his  r's — here  and 
your,  and  perfectly.  It  was  the  last  bit  of  blazonry  he  preserved, 
marking  him  off  for  all  his  degradation  as  one  of  the  conquering  race. 

'Did  you  call  me?'  I  asked. 

'Yes,'  he  said. 

We  looked  at  one  another  silently;  then,  in  quite  another  tone,  as 
coolly  and  politely  as  if  he  were  speaking  across  his  decanter  in  a 
club: 

"Will  you  have  a  drink?' 

I  looked  at  him  in  surprise. 

'Come  along.  I  should  like  to  talk  to  you.  You  are  the  first  of 
your  kind  that  I  have  met  who  seems  to  have  any  bit  of  education. 
I'd  like  to  talk  to  you  for  that  reason.  We'll  have  a  whisky  and  soda. 
Will  you  join  me?' 

I  returned,  no  doubt  a  little  flattered,  but  largely  because  I  did 
not  know  what  else  to  do;  and  our  feet  went  clanking  on  the  hall- 
flags  as  if  the  whole  house  were  a  vault,  and  indeed  there  was  every- 
where a  musty  smell  of  rooms  long  abandoned  or  never  tended. 
His  drawing-room  was  just  as  I  expected,  a  good  room  but  battered 
and  unkempt  like  a  ragged  tramp.  At  the  farther  end  was  a  great 
superfluous  fire  and  standing  by  it  he  poured  me  out  a  jorum  of 
whisky  in  a  glass  whose  crevices  were  brown  with  the  encrustations 
of  years,  all  the  time  peering  at  me  around  the  side  of  a  pink-bowled 
oil-lamp  whose  crude  unshaded  light  made  everything  look  even 
more  drab  and  dirty — the  bare  uncarpeted  floor,  the  fine  marble  fire- 
places mottled  and  cracked,  the  china  cabinets  with  broken  glass 


322  SEAN  o'faolain 

and  no  china  in  them;  and  I  remembered  the  look  of  the  yards  with 
their  rusted  churns  and  staveless  barrels,  and  everywhere  and  on 
everything  the  fur  of  mildew  and  green  damp. 

'Here!  Drink  that,'  he  said,  pouring  himself  another  glass  and 
throwing  it  off  at  a  gulp,  raw. 

'That's  the  way  to  take  your  liquor.  I  suppose  you'll  empty  the 
siphon  in  yours,  eh?  Hum!  If  you  didn't  have  a  revolver  stuck  in 
your  back  pockets  what  would  you  young  fellows  have  over  us?  Oh, 
you're  stronger — but  have  you  more   grit?  Let  me  look  at  you.' 

I  stood  up  for  the  drink,  and  he  peered  at  me. 

'Ah!'  he  wailed.  'There's  only  one  thing  I  regret,  one  thing  I've 
lost  and  that's  clear  eyes.  The  whole  year  is  all  like  foggy  autumn  to 
me.  I  see  the  trees  and  the  woods  as  if  they  were  clouded  in  mist. 
It's  a  great  blessing.  I  go  out  on  a  fine  evening  like  this  evening  and 
it's  like  an  evening  in  winter  to  me  when  the  light  fails  at  four 
o'clock  in  the  afternoon  and  every  hill  is  a  valley  and  every  tree  is 
twice  as  far  away  as  it  really  is.' 

His  streaming  eyes  strayed  to  the  caverns  of  the  fire,  but  the 
flames  shone  dully  in  the  milky  cataracts  of  the  old  fading  pink-shot 
pupils. 

'Why  are  you  in  this  business,  tell  me?'  he  asked  of  a  sudden. 

T  .  .  .,1  believe  in  it,'  I  said  awkwardly. 

He  threw  up  his  hand  in  disgust. 

T  believed  in  things  once,'  he  said.  'I  had  ideas  about  the  people, 
the  people  on  my  land.  I  thought  I'd  get  them  to  do  things  with 
their  land — I  was  ready  to  help  them  with  loans  and  advice.  I'd  tell 
them  how  to  drain  it,  how  to  grow  more  variety  of  vegetables,  and 
how  to  make  money  out  of  their  gardens  selling  the  produce  in  the 
city,  and  how  to  make  better  butter  and  keep  their  eggs  clean.  .  .  .' 

He  sniffed  in  a  long  sneer  at  himself  and  pulled  his  throat  and 
looked  absently  into  the  fire. 

'Look  at  them,  today.  As  dirty  as  ever,  as  poor  as  ever,  as  back- 
ward as  ever,  and  I  suppose  they  blame  people  like  us  for  it  all.  If 
they  had  my  land  they'd  know  how  to  farm  it,  they  think.  But  why 
haven't  they  done  anything  with  their  own?  Why?  Why?' 

He  was  a  hot-tempered  old  fellow,  flying  into  a  temper  at  a  sec- 
ond's warning. 

'But  you're  a  city  boy,  you  know  nothing  of  the  people.  It's  peo- 
ple like  us  who  know  Ireland.  We  belong  to  it — we  who've  grown 
up  on  the  land  and  know  it  and  the  people  on  it.' 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  323 

'Your  people  were  merchants,'  I  said  rather  timidly. 

'They  made  their  money  on  bottles/  he  said  reaching  for  the 
whisky.  'And  I've  spent  their  money  on  bottles,'  he  added  with  the 
air  of  a  man  who  has  often  made  the  same  joke  and  grown  serious 
over  it.  For  as  he  began  to  pour  the  liquor  out  tremblingly  he 
turned  savagely  on  me. 

'And  who  makes  glass  in  Ireland,  now?'  he  wheezed.  'When  we 
stopped,  why  didn't  somebody  else  take  it  up?  They  could  make 
lovely  glass  in  Ireland  at  one  time.  It  might  have  become  a  great* 
a  distinctive  national  industry,  and  everywhere  you'd  see  the  men 
blowing  the  glass  into  lovely  shapes.  People  would  be  coming  from 
abroad  to  see  them.  I've  seen  them  as  a  lad.  Pouf!  And  there  you 
had  a  globe  of  glass,  shining,  coloured,  glowing.  Oh,  no!  Oh,  not 
What  do  we  see  in  the  shop-windows,  now?'  he  cried,  leaning  for- 
ward and  baring  his  rotting,  easily-moved  teeth.  'Cobblers!  Yah! 
A  race  of  cobblers.  That's  what  we  are — a  race  of  cobblers!  They 
hadn't  it  in  them.  They  hadn't  it  in  them!' 

I  saw  for  the  first  time  how  deep  the  hate  on  his  side  could  be,  as 
deep  as  the  hate  on  ours,  as  deep  and  as  terrible,  and  although  he 
angered  me  there  was  so  much  contempt  in  his  face  and  voice  that 
I  could  scarcely  muster  up  the  courage  to  meet  his  eyes.  His  whisky 
was  rising  in  my  head. 

'Oh,  that  was  all  begun  two  centuries  ago,'  I  cried  back  at  him. 
Tt  was  the  Union  with  England  that  ruined  us  and  our  industries. 
Can't  you  see  that?  It  ruined  you.  It  ruined  your  glass-business. 
Aren't  you  part  of  Ireland  as  much  as  us?' 

'Ach!  It's  always  the  same.  This  ruined  us,  and  that  ruined  us, 
and  the  other  ruined  us.  I  tell  you  I'm  ashamed  to  be  called  an 
Irishman,  and  in  fact  I'm  not  an  Irishman.  I'm  a  colonist — a  planter 
— whatever  you  like,  one  of  those  that  tried  to  come  and  do  some- 
thing with  you  people.  Why  didn't  the  people  fight  for  their  rights 
when  they  had  a  parliament?' 

I  tried  to  answer  but  he  wouldn't  let  me,  spilling  his  liquor  all 
over  the  hearth  in  his  rage. 

T  know  what  you'll  say.  But  look  at  the  Welsh,  and  look  at  the 
Scotch.  They  haven't  a  parliament  and  they  have  prospered.  What's 
to  stop  us  from  making  our  linens  and  our  woven  silks,  from  weaving 
patterns  into  them  like  the  Italians  and  the  Slavs?  Where  are  our 
crafts?  What  can  we  show?  What  have  we  ever  done?  Except  dig 
ditches  and  plough  fields?  Why  haven't  we  stuffs,  yes,  stuffs,  stuffs, 


324  SEAN  o'faolain 

stuffs,  of  our  own — stuffs'  ( How  he  spat  it  out! )  'that  any  woman 
would  love  to  fold  around  her  body,  stuffs  she'd  love  to  feel  against 
her  flesh?  Coloured,  brilliant,  delicate  stuffs?' 

And  he  began  to  rub  his  little  hands  down  his  thighs. 

'Oh,  fantastic!'  I  said,  and  leaned  back  from  him  smiling. 

*Ah,  there's  your  revolver  man  talking.  But  it  could  be  done.  Or 
why  don't  we  export  bulbs  or  cut-flowers  like  the  Dutch  and  the 
French  and  the  Channel  Islanders?' 

'It's  impossible — the  climate.' 

'Pah!  It's  on  our  side.  The  Gulf  Stream  would  do  it/ 

'The  Gulf  Stream?' 

Mad   Henn! 

'Yes!  It  warms  our  southern  shores.  You  can  grow  acacias  in 
Kerry  in  the  open  air  in  mid-winter.'  ( A  rush  of  delicate  r's  here. ) 
T've  picked  London  Pride  on  the  mountains  in  early  March.  Jas- 
mine, lilacs,  fuchsias  .  .  / 

'Fuchsia  isn't  a  cut-flower,'  I  taunted.  'Nor  a  bulb!' 

He  twitched  in  every  limb,  dashed  his  glass  in  the  fire  and  banged 
the  hearth  with  his  stick,  and  stuttered  all  the  rest  he  had  to  say 
to  me. 

'It  grows,  it  grows,  I  tell  you  it  grows  wild  in  mid-winter.  In  the 
open  air.  You're  a  damned  obstinate  young  fellow.  And  wallflower, 
lily  of  the  valley,  freesia,  gardenia,  arbutus,  mignonette.  And  all 
sorts  of  delicate  ferns.  A  marvelous  but  a  lost  opportunity.  These 
things  will  bring  them  in  more  money  than  potatoes.  But  they 
tread  on  them.  It's  so  silly,  really,  because  it's  just  like  treading  on 
gold.' 

'But  the  people  are  farmers/ 

'What  are  the  Germans,  the  Dutch,  the  Belgians?  Ah!'  (It  was  a 
long-drawn-out  Ah!  of  the  sweet  memories.)  'I  know  the  people. 
You  city  fellows  don't  know  them/ 

Then  his  voice  fell. 

'I  know  their  women,'  he  said. 

He  rubbed  his  little  hands  again  and  tapped  me  on  the  knee. 

T  know  every  sort  of  woman:  English  women,  French  women, 
Italians,  I've  even  known  a  Russian  woman.  The  Russians  are  like 
the  Irish,  you  know.  But  too  stubborn  and  too  obstinate  and 
too  proud.  Prouder  even  than  the  Irish.  And  not  one  of  them  all  can 
equal  the  Irish  woman — of  the  right  sort.  But  they're  airy.  You 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  325 

have  to  bind  them  down  with  a  brutal  religion  or  they'd  fly  over  the 
fields  from  you.  Don't  you  feel  that  too,  eh?' 

And  he  cocked  his  hat  even  still  further  over  on  one  ear  and 
laughed  a  little  elfish  laugh  of  delight  and  his  loose  lock  behind  al- 
most curled  like  a  drake's  tail.  He  poked  the  embers  with  his  stick. 
He  filled  my  glass  in  spite  of  me — delighted  like  all  old  bach- 
elors whose  clubdays  and  dancing-days  are  done  to  have  anyone  at 
all  who  will  talk  with  them. 

'Ah!  Yes,'  he  sighed  as  he  poured  my  whiskey,  'the  women  are  all 
right.  So  lovely  and  plump.  Muscular  from  the  fields.  Arms  .  .  . 
right!'  (He  moulded  them  with  the  bottle  in  his  hand.)  'Breasts 
like  tulips.  Lovely!  Lovely!  But  you  don't  know.  You  only  know  the 
city.  The  city!  Puh!  I  wouldn't  give  that  much  for  a  city  woman.' 

I  threw  off  his  whisky  neat. 

'Why  shouldn't  I  know  the  country?'  I  cried.  'By  damn  but  I  do. 
As  well  as  you,  better  than  you.  I  know  their  women.  Many  a  mouse 
I  moused  with  their  women.  What's  more  than  that,  I  was  born  in 
the  country  and  born  right  here  in  this  townland.  My  mother  was 
born  and  is  buried  and  my  grandmother  and  all  her  people  before 
her  down  there  in  Kilcrea  churchyard.  I  lived  in  the  townland  of 
Farrane  myself  as  a  child,  and  my  father  lived  there  before  me.' 

I  thought  he  shrank  into  himself  at  that,  pulling  down  his  long 
neck  like  a  snail  or  a  tortoise  at  the  approach  of  danger. 

'What's  your  name?'  he  asked  quietly. 

I  told  him. 

'I  remember  your  mother  well,'  he  said.  'She  held  land  from  me. 
And  I  remember  your  father.  He  was  stationed  at  Kilcrea.  I  met  him 
first  at  an  eviction  on  my  land.  They  shoved  a  red-hot  poker 
through  the  door  at  him  and  he  caught  it;  and  by  God  he  pulled  it 
from  them,  so  he  did.  A  fine  man.' 

'I  remember  that,'  I  said,  quiet  myself,  too,  now. 

'No,  boy,  no,'  he  said  sadly.  'That  was  a  long  time  ago/ 

'Oh,  but  I  do,  well,'  I  cried.  'I  remember  the  bandage  on  his 
hand.' 

'Not  at  all,'  and  he  smacked  the  stick  on  the  side  of  the  marble 
fireplace.  'This  was  a  long  time  ago.  Forty  years  or  more.  Forty  years 
or  more' — and  as  he  said  it  his  eyes  strayed,  rheum  wet,  from  me  to 
the  fire  and  back  to  me  again  as  if  he  were  trying  to  see  my  father  in 
me  and  those  dead  years  that  were  gone  from  him  for  ever. 


326  SEAN  o'faolain 

'Where  is  he  now?'  he  asked. 

'He's  dead,'  I  said. 

'Ah,  and  is  he  dead?' 

'Yes.' 

'And  your  mother?' 

'She  is  dead,'  I  answered  quietly. 

'Ah!' 

He  looked  into  the  embers  and  they  seemed  to  glow  but  faintly 
on  his  all  but  sightless  balls — a  quietness  more  than  the  night  fallen 
on  him  secretly  and  unexpectedly.  Just  then  a  step  resounded  on 
the  hall-flags  and  the  door  opened  and  in  came  the  dark,  mus- 
cular Gypsy,  behind  her  Stevey,  slouching  as  ever.  He  did  not  see  me 
at  first,  and  he  approached  the  old  man  with  a  low  'Good  night'  and 
I  thought  the  long  neck  drew  into  itself  again.  Henn  did  not  reply, 
but  he  raised  a  feeble  hand  and  took  the  girl's  fingers  in  his  palm. 
His  was  as  tiny  as  hers — and  the  fire  shone  pink  between  his  bony 
fingers,  ridged  with  the  veins  and  threaded  with  the  thousand  wrin- 
kles of  age.  As  their  eyes  met  the  swan's  neck  curved  up  to  her  lov- 
ingly. 

'Have  you  had  a  nice  walk,  pretty?' 

'Yes,  down  to  the  bridge  at  the  pub.' 

Before  him  how  delicately  her  lips  said,  down,  with  a  voluptuous 
upward  curve  at  the  corners  of  her  mouth  so  that  they  swept  into  her 
cheeks  as  the  curved  initials  on  his  ring  swept  into  the  gold.  Her  sul- 
len eyes  were  soft  and  in  this  light  she  almost  looked  beautiful.  His 
hand  wandered  over  her  arm  as  he  asked  the  next  question — a  ques- 
tion as  familiar  as  Sunday.  She  smiled  as  she  replied. 

'Was  there  anything  rising?'  he  asked. 

'Down  be  the  bridge  they're  leppin','  she  said. 

'It's  the  breeze.  There's  always  a  breeze  fluting  down  that  side  of 
the  valley.' 

Stevey  laughed  loudly  at  them  both,  and  his  voice  was  rough  and 
coarse  beside  the  rich  voice  of  the  girl  and  the  cultured  voice  of  the 
old  man. 

'Leppin'?  Rise?  Rise,  how  are  you!  That  was  me  spittin'  when  she 
wasn't  looking.' 

'Oh,  then,  there  was  a  rise,'  she  cried.  T  saw  their  silver  bellies 
shining  as  they  leaped.' 

'Ooh!'  mocked  Stevey.  'Bellies!  Naughty  word!  Ooh!' 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  327 

Henn  gripped  his  stick  until  it  trembled  and  his  knuckles  strained 
the  skin  white.  He  snapped  at  Stevey. 

'If  the  girl  says  there  was  a  rise,  there  was.  Aren't  you  enough  of  a 
gentleman  not  to  contradict  her?' 

But  his  voice  trembled  as  if  he  were  half  afraid  of  his  own  daring. 
Well  he  might.  In  a  second  Stevey  was  in  one  of  his  violent  passions, 
almost  raising  his  fist  over  the  old  bowler-hatted  head. 

1  don't  want  any  English  pimp  to  tell  me  what  to  do  or  not  do 
with  the  girl — or  any  girl.  Mind  that!' 

Henn's  hand  shook,  and  all  his  legs,  as  he  pulled  himself  up  on  his 
stick,  taller  when  he  stood  than  any  of  us,  his  bent  back  straightened, 
made  gigantic  by  the  great  shadow  that  climbed  the  wall  behind 
him.  I  could  see  what  a  man  he  was  in  his  heyday,  what  a  figure  on  a 
horse,  wielding  the  rod  from  the  top  of  a  rock,  wiry,  bony  giant. 
There  was  almost  majesty  in  him  as  he  pointed  his  trembling  stick 
to  the  door  and  faced  down  to  Stevey  with: 

'Leave  my  house,  sir.  I'll  not  be  bullied  any  longer  by  you — not 
an  hour.' 

'And  I'll  leave  it,'  cried  Stevey,  'when  and  only  when  I  choose. 
I'll  not  be  ordered  by  you.  Who  the  hell  do  you  think  you  are  or- 
dering? Do  you  think  you  can  order  me?  Ho,  and  but  let  me  tell  you, 
Mister  Alexander  Henn,  I'm  staying  here.' 

I  could  see  he  had  taken  drink  while  down  at  the  pub,  and  the 
devil  was  in  his  eyes;  he  skipped  across  the  hearth  by  the  side  of 
Henn  and  flopped  mockingly  into  the  chair  the  old  man  had  just 
left.  Then  he  stretched  out  his  hand  for  Henn's  glass  on  the  mantel- 
piece, and  wiping  the  side  of  it  on  his  coat-sleeve  raised  it  in  mockery 
of  the  old  man.  There  was  silence  for  a  second  and  then  Gypsy 
laughed,  and  the  laugh  cut  through  Henn.  He  raised  his  stick  and 
lashed  at  the  hand  that  held  the  empty  glass  in  the  air,  and  as  the 
splinters  fell  I  leapt,  Henn  thrusting  his  face  across  my  arm  into 
Stevey's  face,  Gypsy  barely  holding  back  Stevey's  fist  before  it 
crashed  into  the  old  rheumy,  half -blind  eyes.  Henn  was  all  but  weep- 
ing for  vanity,  for  that  laughter  of  the  girl  at  his  age  and  infirmity. 
All  he  could  say  between  his  sobs  was,  'You  young  ruffian.  You 
ruffian.  You  ruffian.  .  .  .' 

I  thrust  Stevey  back.  Henn  turned  to  me. 

'This  young  woman.  If  anything  should  happen  to  her,  which 
God  forbid  .  .  .' 


328  SEAN  o'faolain 

'Oh,  you  hypocrite/  cried  Stevey,  turning  to  the  empty  air  for 
somebody  to  appeal  to.  'Oh,  listen  to  that.  God!  God  forbid!  Oh, 
the  hypocrisy  of  it!' 

'Yes,  yes,  yes,'  I  appealed  and  implored  Gypsy  to  take  him  away 
and  pushed  him  from  us,  and  the  girl  dragged  him,  and  pushed  him, 
and  persuaded  him  out  of  the  room.  She  was  strangely  cool  as  if 
abuse  and  quarrelling  and  coarse  talk  were  nothing  to  her.  I  put  the 
old  man  in  his  chair  and  filled  a  glass  for  him  and  left  him  and 
found  Stevey  sullenly  akimbo  on  the  top  of  the  steps.  He  was 
ashamed,  I  felt,  to  have  played  his  heroics  opposite  me  and  I 
thought  he  might  not  have  quarrelled  with  old  Henn  if  he  knew  I 
was  there.  So  I  stood  beside  him  without  speaking  until  he  said  he 
was  sorry  he  had  broken  out  like  that  since  it  would  ruin  my  chances 
of  staying  at  the  Hall.  I  could  not  tell  of  what  else  he  was  thinking, 
but  I  was  thinking  to  myself:  Where  shall  I  go  now?  For  I  could 
neither  remain  in  the  Hall  nor  go  with  Stevey.  My  hopes  of  a  quiet, 
serene  night  were  already  vanished,  and  I  felt  to  Stevey  as  one  feels 
towards  some  hooligan  who  breaks  in  on  lovely  music  with  his  loud 
shouting  and  laughter.  We  stood  in  silence  and  looked  down  into  the 
night.  A  frightened  bird  fluttered  in  the  woods;  a  star  fell  in  a  grace- 
ful, fatal  swoop,  vanishing  in  mid-air  as  if  a  mighty  hand  had 
scratched  the  sky  with  light. 

Biting  his  nails,  Stevey  said,  'Tell  Gypsy  J  want  her.' 

I  went  back  to  the  drawing-room  where  the  girl  and  the  old  man 
stood  by  the  window. 

'Stevey  wishes  to  speak  to  you/  I  said;  and  when  she  went  tramp- 
ing wearily,  heavily,  from  the  room  I  looked  at  Henn  and  he  looked 
back  at  me  and  neither  of  us  spoke.  As  I  looked  away  again  through 
the  shining  window  I  could  see  the  old  man's  eyes  fixed  on  me.  At 
last  I  buttoned  my  coat  about  me  and  turned  to  him. 

'I  suppose  I'd  better  be  going/  I  said. 

'Going?  Where  are  you  going?' 

T  don't  know  really,  but  .  .  .' 

'Hum!  You  were  to  stay  here,  I  take  it,  eh?' 

After  a  long  hesitation  I  answered,  'Yes — I  was.  I  was.  I  may  even 
stay  in  your  hay-barn  yet,  for  all  you  know.  Good  night/  I  con- 
cluded, 'I'm  glad  to  have  met  you.' 

'No,  boy.  I  won't  say  good  night.  And  you  won't  stay  in  my  hay- 
barn,  because  I  have  none.  Stay  where  you  intended  to  stay.  Even 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  329 

though  you  didn't  choose  to  ask  me,  stay.  If  not  for  your  own  sake, 
for  your  father's  and  mother's  sake.' 

He  rose  and  went  slowly  and  feebly  to  the  door,  his  half-emptied 
bottle  in  his  hand. 

'Could  I  stop  you,'  he  said,  'if  you  wanted  to  stay  here  a  month? 
Stay!  And  be  damned  to  ye!' 

'I  won't,'  I  said. 

He  turned  to  me  at  the  door. 

'Please  do  stay,'  he  pleaded,  nodding  his  head  many  times  to  en- 
courage me.  'Stay,  stay,  stay.' 

He  was  maudlin  with  the  excitement  and  the  liquor. 

'Will  you  stay?'  he  asked  again. 

I  looked  out  into  the  dark. 

Stay!  I  thought  to  myself  it  must  be  near  to  eleven  or  midnight. 

'Thanks  very  much,'  I  said;  and  being  satisfied  he  waved  his 
bony  hand,  slipping  his  bottle  into  the  great  pocket  of  his  swallow- 
tailed  coat;  then  he  turned  and  went,  his  little  hat  perched  on  one 
side  of  his  head  and  his  rug  trailing  after  him  on  the  uncarpeted 
floor. 

I  sat  by  the  table  and  looked  about  me  again:  at  the  tablecloth  like 
a  gypsy's  shawl,  at  the  threadbare  carpet  on  the  floor,  at  the  dusty 
lace  curtains  dragged  to  the  ends  of  their  poles,  and  everything  my 
eyes  fell  on  mocked  him  and  his  desires.  Lovely  woven  silks,  he  had 
said,  and  woven  linens,  and  stuffs  such  as  women  might  love  to  feel? 
And  such  strange  flowers  and  bulbs  as  the  Dutch  and  the  Channel 
Islanders  grew,  as  freesia,  gardenia,  mignonette?  What  a  liar, 
I  thought;  and  bitterly  I  was  pleased  to  end  the  triad,  calling  him 
(as  the  farming  folk  had  called  him  for  fifty  years)  a  lunatic;  and 
he  would  not  deny  he  was  a  libertine  as  well. 

Gypsy  returned,  and  I  told  her  I  was  staying  in  the  house,  and 
once  more  she  went  and  returned.  We  heard  Stevey's  steps  vanish 
down  the  drive,  and  then  silently  she  took  a  candle  and  lit  me  up- 
stairs to  bed.  As  we  went  I  asked  her  what  her  name  was,  and  she 
said: 

'My  name  is  Gammle.' 

'Indeed,'  I  said,  thoughtlessly. 

'Why  indeed?  she  asked,  halting  in  her  step  and  looking  at  me. 

'Nothing,'  I  said,  'It's  just  a  strange  name.' 

But  I  did  not  tell  her  I  was  thinking  that  the  name  was  well 


330  SEAN    O  FAOLAIN 

known  in  North  Cork  for  a  tinker  tribe,  in  Charleville  and  Doner- 
aile  and  the  borders  of  Limerick  and  up  into  Clare,  a  name  few  de- 
cent men  or  women  ever  bore. 

'Good  night,'  she  said,  and  left  me  in  a  great  empty  musty  room, 
the  bed  all  tousled  and  the  bed-clothes  soiled  and  yellow.  I  lay 
down  as  I  stood,  and  to  the  sound  of  the  branches  of  the  trees  tap- 
ping on  the  bare  window  I  dozed  and  slept. 


II 

I  awoke,  wide-eyed  of  a  sudden  insomnia,  to  the  rusted,  wailing 
drone  of  an  old  phonograph  in  the  room  below  me.  By  the  light  of 
the  moon  I  looked  at  my  watch,  it  was  past  twelve  o'clock,  an  hour 
when  cities  begin  to  live  and  the  fields  are  fast  asleep.  How  many 
times  had  I  not  lain  awake  for  hours  listening  to  the  quietness  of  the 
city,  or  to  late  parties  singing  their  way  homeward,  before  the  war 
and  curfew  sent  us  all  to  our  beds?  I  would  be  awake  now  almost  un- 
til the  dawn  broke.  Rising  peevishly  I  went  to  the  door,  opening 
it  in  time  to  hear  a  new  record  begin  its  nasal  introductory  speech 
— This  is  an  Edison  Bell  recawrd;  number  one  seven  nine  nine; 
songs  from  the  Awpera  of  Dawn  Giovanni  by  Mozart.  And  then 
through  the  hollow-sounding  house  _the  stifled  music  of  one  of  the 
loveliest  of  all  operas;  and  humming  with  the  singer,  or  rather  be- 
hind the  singer,  came  old  blear-eyed  maudlin  Henn's  cracked  and 
drunken  voice: 

'Batti;  batti  .  .  .' 

I  bade  sleep  good  night,  and  dragging  on  my  pants  sat  on  the 
edge  of  the  bed,  my  coat  about  my  shoulders,  smoking  a  cigarette. 
Or  watched  the  branches  beating  on  the  panes,  or  the  laurels  shiv- 
ering and  shining  in  the  tangled  garden  beneath  my  window,  or  the 
Bride  rain-laden  far  below  glinting  between  its  ancient  gall  black 
alders  under  the  starry  sky. 

'Questo  e  il  fin  di  chi  fa  trial, 

E  de   perfidi  la  morte  alia  vita  e  sempre  ugualY 

The  pair  and  their  song  died  slowly,  and  when  silence  fell  Henn 
kicked  his  enamel  chamber-pot  until  it  rang.  Croaking  and  hum- 
ming the  love-song  he  shuffled  out  on  his  landing.  From  my  door  I 
Watched  him  almost  stumble  headlong  down  the  stairs,  out  of  the 


MIDSUMMER    NIGHT   MADNESS  331 

house,  on  to  the  gravelled  drive  and  out  of  sight  into  the  dark. 

One  by  one  I  began  to  hear  them — those  innumerable,  inexplic- 
able sounds  that  are  to  be  heard  at  night  in  a  house  when  all  the 
casual  day-sounds  are  still;  timbers  that  stretch  and  contract,  little 
insects  that  make  a  great  creaking  noise.  And  feeling  that  I  had 
rather  be  in  the  open  air  than  alone  in  this  empty  house  I  pulled 
on  my  boots  and  went  down  to  the  open  door  and  out  on  the  avenue 
and  down  towards  the  cottage  in  the  track  of  Henn.  Here  a  chill 
wind  was  blowing  last  year's  leaves  high  in  the  air,  but  near  the 
lodge  where  the  drive  fell  sharply  down  to  the  gates  between  the 
trees  on  their  high  ditches  the  dust  lay  in  soft  whispering  drifts — 
soft  and  white  as  snow  under  the  moon,  so  soft  that  as  I  stood  by  the 
little  deserted  lodge  peering  curiously  in  through  one  of  the  win- 
dows I  might  have  been  a  rabbit  or  a  fox  for  all  the  warning  I  gave 
anyone  who  might  be  inside.  Only  a  shaft  of  wavering  light  lay 
thrown  across  the  tiny  hallway  from  another  room.  Moving  cau- 
tiously to  the  other  window  I  peered  in  again.  There  they  were, 
Gypsy  and  Henn:  she  with  her  skirt  drawn  above  her  knees,  an  old 
coat  over  the  warm  skin  of  her  bare  shoulders,  toasting  her  shins  to  a 
little  flickering  fire — Henn,  as  he  did  the  first  time  I  saw  them  to- 
gether, holding  her  fingers  in  his  palm  and  leaning  forward  over  her 
round  knee  to  see  into  her  eyes. 

Strange  to  watch  the  unequal  pair  looking  at  one  another  so 
long,  so  silently,  seeming  not  to  say  one  word  to  each  other,  her 
dark  head  bowed  sidelong  to  his  lips,  her  fallen  lashes  on  her  cheeks, 
her  parted  lips  that  never  moved,  he,  with  a  smile,  foolish  yet  tender, 
sagging  his  quivering  mouth  apart,  his  old  hat  cocked  forward  on 
eyes  that  streamed  their  water  to  his  cheeks;  and  yet,  though  Henn 
was  old  and  decaying,  and  she  warm-fleshed,  white  to  her  teeth,  full 
of  the  pride  of  youth,  and — Henn  was  right — her  breasts  like  tulips 
fully  blown,  if  anything  too  magnificently  full,  too  Jewess  soft,  yet 
he  could  for  all  that,  raise  his  hand  now  with  so  much  languid  grace 
to  feel  their  roundness,  hold  the  precious  globe  for  one  moment  so 
lightly,  so  fondly  on  his  fingers  before  his  withered  hand  fell  as  if 
in  despair  into  her  lap,  that  finer  women  than  Gypsy  might  well 
have  smiled,  even  as  she  smiled  now,  with  head  turning  slow  from 
that  flattering  gesture  of  the  epicure,  with  long  slow-drawn  sighs  at 
the  uselessness  of  such  praise  from  him.  To  which  of  these  men,  I 
wondered,  had  this  girl  given  herself?  For  now  with  her  hair  dragged 
on  the  ridge  of  her  chair  and  her  head  falling  lower  and  lower  on 


332  SEAN  o'faolain 

her  bosom  until  her  eyes  caught  in  the  embers  of  the  fire,  she  per- 
mitted him  to  move  aside  her  skirt,  ever  so  little,  from  her  bare 
knee,  and  caress  it  with  his  withered  hand  as  softly  as  if  it 
were  swansdown,  caress  it  even  after  the  glow  of  the  fire  shone  on 
her  eyes  drowned  in  tears,  caress  it  while  she  sat  rigid  with  misery, 
her  moans  breaking  out  in  trembling  waves  to  the  whispering  night 
outside.  And  yet  not  a  stir  or  word  from  Henn,  but  as  if  hoping 
that  his  old  hand  could  quiet  her  child-like  sobs,  he  caressed  and 
caressed  and  looked  and  looked  dog-like  into  her  face.  Alas!  each  ex- 
hausted sigh  was  but  the  prelude  to  a  new  shuddering  burst  of  tears 
like  waves  that  are  silent  for  a  while  and  then  burst  suddenly  and 
inevitably  on  the  shore. 

I  could  not  bear  those  dog-like  eyes  of  the  old  libertine,  nor  those 
sighs  and  sobs  of  the  young  girl;  and  stumbling  away  from  the  light 
of  the  little  window  and  out  of  the  creaking  gate  I  found  myself 
walking  on  and  on  under  the  tenting  chestnuts  in  the  windy  dust- 
blown  land,  up  and  along  the  highway  I  had  come  that  evening,  too 
moved  to  return  and  sit  alone  in  my  unkempt  bedroom  in  the  Hall. 
For  somehow  country  and  freedom  seemed  a  small  thing  under  this 
austere  darkness  with  that  pair,  heavy  with  one  another's  sorrow, 
down  in  the  weather-streaked  decaying  cottage;  and  with  the  mem- 
ory of  those  drooping  mother's  breasts  and  that  large  mother's 
belly  on  the  young  girl,  and  the  look  of  pity  on  the  old  libertine's 
face  I  find  myself  walking  aimlessly  on  and  on. 

But  suddenly  across  the-black  valley  there  rises  a  leaping  yellow 
flame,  and  through  the  night  air  on  the  night  wind  comes  the  crackle 
of  the  burning  timber,  joists  moist  with  the  damp  of  years,  burning 
the  vermin  in  their  cracks  and  the  resinous  veins. 

The  flames  through  the  trees  flickered  like  a  huge  bonfire  and  run- 
ning down  the  lanes  toward  Henn  Hall  I  could  see  from  time  to 
time  as  I  ran  the  outline  of  windows,  of  a  gable-end,  of  a  chimney 
silhouetted  against  the  glowing  air  about  it.  At  the  lodge  the  little 
light  was  still  shining  in  the  window  but  without  looking  through  I 
knocked  and  knocked  until  bare  padding  feet  came  along  the  floor 
and  the  girl's  voice  said: 

'Who  is  it?  Who's  there?' 

'A  fire,'  I  cried.  'What  can  we  do?  Across  the  valley,  a  big  house/ 
And  in  my  excitement  I  cried  out,  Where's  Mad  Henn?' 

She  answered  through  the  door. 

'He's  not  here.  Isn't  he  at  the  Hall?' 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  333 

I  was,  I  admit,  a  fool  that  night. 

1  don't  know/  I  shouted  back  to  her. 

'You  don't  know?' 

She  opened  an  inch  or  two  of  the  door  and  looked  out  at  me  with 
frightened  eyes. 

'Whose  house  is  it?'  she  asked. 

'I  don't  know.  It's  straight  over  the  river — straight  across  there.' 

Holding  her  clothes  about  her  body  she  stepped  to  the  corner  of 
the  lodge  and  looked  across  at  the  blazing  house. 

It's  Blake's,'  she  said.  'We  can't  do  anything.  They  may  come  over 
here.  Where's  Henn?'  she  asked  then,  suddenly  terrified. 

1  thought  he  was  here.' 

She  stared  at  me,  astonished,  yet  full  of  cunning  that  was  mingled 
with  fright  for  Henn. 

'Isn't  he  at  the  Hall?'  she  insisted  nervously. 

'Maybe,'  I  stuttered,  'yes — perhaps  he  is — I  suppose  he  is  at  the 
Hall.' 

'Did  you  try?' 

'I  was  out  walking,'  I  said. 

'Walking!' 

There  was  a  pause. 

'What  time  is  it?'  she  asked. 

As  I  peered  at  my  watch,  saying,  'It's  well  after  one  o'clock,'  I 
could  see  her  eyes  looking  at  me  with  fear  and  suspicion,  and  hav- 
ing spied  on  her  I  was  ashamed  to  look  up.  But  slowly  I  under- 
stood why  she  was  watching  me  in  that  way;  she  thought  that  my 
coming  there  that  night,  a  man  'on  the  run,'  had  something  to  do 
with  this  burning  house,  that  I  had  caused  it,  as  a  reprisal,  an  act  of 
revenge,  and  that  in  some  way  Henn  too  would  suffer  by  it,  and 
that  Stevey,  probably,  had  been  the  man  who  carried  it  out.  How  stu- 
pid I  had  been — but  such  reprisals  were  as  yet  rare  in  the  country 
and  it  had  never  occurred  to  me  that  this  was  one  until  in  her  eyes 
I  saw  fear  and  distrust  and  hate. 

'A  nice  time  for  walking,'  she  said  shortly,  and  raced  down  the 
slope  of  the  ditch  and  up  to  the  Hall  and  there  she  knocked  on  the 
heavy  hen's-head  knocker  until  the  countryside  resounded  and  even 
a  dog,  somewhere  across  the  fields,  began  to  bark-bark  at  our  knock- 
knock  on  the  echoing  door.  I  tried  to  explain  myself. 

'  'Tis  why  I  came  to  the  country — to  sleep.  I  get  insomnia.  So  I 
got  up  and  came  out.' 


334  SEAN  o'faolain 

'How  did  you  get  out?  Henn  keeps  the  key  in  his  room.' 

'The  door  was  open.' 

But  I  was  now  concealing  something  from  her  and  she  would  not 
believe  me. 

'My  God/  she  moaned,  'what's  happened  to  him?' 

Then  in  her  fear  and  rage  and  suspicion  she  turned  on  me,  a  ti- 
gress robbed  of  her  mate — and  even  in  that  instant  I  remember  say- 
ing to  myself,  Oho!  So  it's  Henn,  is  it? 

'Where  is  he?'  she  cried.  'What  did  ye  do  with  him?  Christ  blast  ye 
all,  ye  set  of s.  What  did  ye  do  to  him?' 

Her  voice  was  echoed  by  the  stony  face  of  the  house,  thrown  back 
into  the  fields  and  echoed  there  again  and  again  by  the  barking 
dog. 

T  know  nothing  about  him,'  I  said  angrily.  'He's  probably  dead 
drunk.  Knock  him  up.' 

And  I  clouted  the  hen's  head  until  my  hand  ached.  Not  a  sound  re- 
plied but  the  dog  over  the  fields,  now  thoroughly  aroused,  and 
crackling  of  the  flames  across  the  valley,  and,  within,  the  old  sheep- 
dog, who  stirred  and  howled  mournfully. 

The  girl  caught  my  arm  in  fear. 

'Oh,  it's  the  dog  crying  before  somebody  dies.' 

'Ssh!  Is  that  a  window?' 

'Is  it  the  I.R.A.  that  burnt  it?'  she  asked,  looking  up  and  then 
over  her  shoulder. 

1  know  nothing  about  it.  How  can  we  get  in?' 

'It's  for  the  child  the  Tans  killed.  Oh!  Ye've  done  something  to 
Henn.  Ye've  surely  done  something  to  Henn.' 

We  found  a  little  scullery  window  open  and  through  it  I  clam- 
bered and  let  her  in  at  the  front  door.  Up  we  climbed  the  dark  stairs, 
the  dog  flopping  along  behind,  and  up  to  his  room,  and  into  it.  We 
found  him  there  in  his  bed,  snoring  on  his  stomach  with  the  weight 
of  drink,  his  nightshirt  crumpled  above  his  bare  knees,  and  on  his 
head  a  fluff-laden  night-cap  of  scarlet  wool.  Ashamed  of  the  sight 
of  him  with  his  dirty  toes  and  the  engrimed  creases  across  the  base 
of  his  neck  and  half-way  up  his  skull,  Gypsy  shook  him  madly  into  a 
gasping  wakefulness;  and  seeing  me,  in  the  faint  glow  that  filled  the 
room,  smile  at  his  comically  stupid  look  she  straightened  his  cap  on 
his  head  as  if  he  were  a  child,  and  covered  his  shoulders  as  he  sat  up 
in  bed  looking  about  him  at  the  angry  waving  light — like  a  picture 
of  Juan  in  hell. 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  335 

'Are  you  all  right?'  she  asked. 

1 — yes — oh,  I'm  all  right.  But  .  .  / 

'Look.'  She  pointed,  and  he  looked. 

'My  God!'  he  cried.  Totty  Blake's.' 

His  eyes  bulged  as  he  looked,  and  trying  to  master  himself 
he  scrambled  across  the  floor  to  stoop  in  the  open  window  in  his 
shirt. 

'Oh!  My  God!  My  God!'  was  all  he  could  say,  and  then,  'Do  you 
hear  them?  Do  you  hear  the  noise?' 

'The  flames?'  I  said. 

'No!  The  rooks.  They'll  never  nest  there  again.  They're  ruined 
with  the  heat.' 

And  he  began  to  tousle  his  cap  and  sank  on  his  knees  crying  like 
a  child.  Gypsy  stood  over  him  where  he  knelt. 

The  Blakes  will  be  likely  coming  here  for  the  night.' 

He  stood  up  at  once  like  a  hardened  toper,  and  turned  to  us. 

'Go  down,'  he  said,  'and  lay  the  table  for  them,  and  set  the  fire 
going.  And  you,  boy,  go,  like  a  good  fellow,  and  give  her  a  hand.' 

Gypsy  went  but  I  thought  he  was  unable  to  look  after  himself  and 
tried  to  coax  him  from  the  window. 

I'll  stay  here,'  I  whispered.  'It's  cold,  you  know.  You  must  dress, 
now.  I'll  help  you.  Come  on.' 

But  when  I  tried  to  lead  him  back  to  the  bed  he  flung  my  arm 
aside,  peevishly. 

'Am  I  a  child?'  he  cried. 

So  I  left  him  in  a  palsy  of  trembling,  dragging  his  nightshirt  over 
his  head,  rump-naked,  fumbling  for  his  clothes  by  the  pale  light  of 
the  candle  and  the  fluttering  light  of  the  burning  house. 

In  silence  we  set  about  blowing  the  seed  of  fire  on  the  hearth  into 
flame,  and  I  dipped  the  kettle  in  the  dark  water  of  the  butt  and  the 
crane  swung  it  slowly  over  the  fire.  The  false  dawn  of  the  fire  and 
the  distant  rooks  cawing  with  fright  had  awakened  the  doves  and  all 
the  birds  on  this  side  of  the  valley  and  the  night  was  sweet  with  their 
music.  From  time  to  time  as  we  passed  from  kitchen  to  parlour  with 
ware  or  food  we  halted  to  look  at  the  fire  that  sometimes  seemed  to 
have  died  away  and  sometimes  flared  up  more  madly  than  ever  be- 
fore. There  Henn  joined  me  and  we  waited  there,  wondering  if  the 
Blakes  would  come  or  if  we  should  go  back  to  bed  and  try  to  sleep 
out  the  end  of  the  night.  At  last  he  drew  me  into  the  room  and  filled 
out  a  drink  for  himself,  while  I  yawned,  dry-eyed  for  lack  of  sleep. 


336  SEAN  o'faolain 

1  don't  know  where  else  the  Blakes  can  go/  he  said.  'Though  if 
there  was  another  house  within  three  miles  of  them  they'd  rather 
die  than  come  under  my  roof.  I'm  sorry  for  his  two  tits  of  sisters, 
though.' 

'Only  two  women?'  I  asked  wearily. 

'Philamena  and  Agatha.  Two  sour  tits.  And  the  Captain,  their 
father.  That's  all  that's  there.  Oh,  but  Philamena  is  a  sour  creature. 
I  chalked  that  very  word  on  the  door  of  the  church  about  her  when 
I  was  six — got  whipped  for  it  too.  And  she  never  spoke  a  word  to 
me  after.  And  I  gave  Agatha  a  penny  at  the  age  of  eight  if  she'd 
let  me  swing  her  so  high  that  I  could  see  her  drawers.  They  would 
never  let  her  see  me  after  that.  I  once  went,'  he  said  throwing  back 
his  liquor,  T  once  went  to  church  to  a  Handel  service,  and  I  had  to 
run  out  of  it  when  I  saw  the  two  virgins  singing  away  "To  us  a  child 
is  born;  to  us  a  son  is  given"  But,  ah!'  he  snarled,  'they're  sour  tit- 
ties. Vinegar  for  milk  they  have.  Sour  and  old  and  virginal.' 

He  was  getting  angry  with  them,  I  could  see. 

'They'd  just  raise  their  hands  in  horror  at  a  girl  like  ...  at  a  girl 
that  would,  that  would  .  .  .' 

I  stood  in  the  corner  of  the  window  watching  the  sparks  rising 
and  falling  endlessly  like  fireflies,  silenced  as  one  is  always  silenced 
by  a  raging  fire,  to  think  of  calamity  on  one's  doorstep. 

'Gypsy,'  says  Henn,  suddenly  rising  and  going  to  another  window, 
'Gypsy  was  sick  tonight.' 

'Bad?'  I  asked  sleepily. 

'Bad?  Oh,  no!  Not  yet.' 

'Not  yet?' 

'That's  what  I  said.  Didn't  you  hear  me?' 

'Yes.' 

He  came  shuffling  over  to  me  on  his  stick. 

'The  girl  is  ruined,'  he  said,  peering  into  my  eyes  that  filled  with 
shame  as  he  looked  at  them. 

'What  do  you  mean  by  that?' 

'Gypsy  is  going  to  be  a  mother  next  month  or  after/ 

I  answered  his  stare. 

'Who  do  you  think  is  to  blame?'  he  asked. 

For  answer  I  looked  angrily  over  the  valley  at  the  house.  What  did 
it  matter  to  him  what  I  thought?  What  would  all  the  country  think 
when  they  heard  it?  Another  servant  of  Kenn's — it  was  an  old  story 
— about  to  bear  a  child- 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  337 

Til  not  be  blamed,'  he  cried  and  his  tubes  were  hoarse  with  pas- 
sion. 'I  am  not  to  be  blamed/ 
'What  does  the  girl  say?' 
'How  does  she  know?' 
And  he  went  back  to  his  glass  and  his  fire. 

And  then  up  the  avenue  in  a  shadowy  mass,  singing  and  shout- 
ing, came  the  incendiaries,  Stevey  at  their  head,  ready  for  anything, 
drunk  with  the  whisky  and  triumph.  Had  it  been  six  months  later, 
he  could  safely  have  burnt  half  the  houses  in  the  district  and  we 
should  not  have  dared,  nor  cared,  nor  had  the  time,  nor  even  wished 
in  the  heat  of  passion — for  things  grew  very  hot  by  then — to  ques- 
tion any  such  act  of  his.  But  tonight  I  ran  to  the  door  determined 
to  thwart  him.  He  faced  up  the  steps  and  shouted  for  Henn,  Henn 
the  whore,  Henn  the  cock,  the  Henn's  neck,  and  all  about  him 
shouted  with  him  out  of  the  dark  in  their  rough,  country  accents: 

'Henn!  Henn!  Come  out,  you  whore.  Henn!  Come  out,  Henn!' 

There  was  a  glint  of  a  revolver  in  one  man's  hand  as  I  ran  down 
the  steps  and  faced  up  to  Stevey. 

'What  rotten  sort  of  soldier  are  you?'  I  shouted  at  him. 

'What  do  you  mean?'  he  cried. 

'Is  that  what  you  call  soldiering?'  I  shouted  into  his  face,  pointing 
across  the  valley  at  the  burning  ruin.  For  an  instant  he  looked  at  it, 
and  then  to  his  men  and  at  me. 

'Ah,'  he  shouted.  'We  burnt  the  bastards  out;  didn't  we  boys? 
And  damn  right  well  they  deserved  it.' 

They  shouted  it  back  to  him,  their  memories  full  of  the  days  when 
their  people  died  of  starvation  by  the  roadsides  and  the  big  houses 
looked  on  in  portly  indifference.  Again  and  again  they  echoed  it 
back  to  him. 

'And  we'll  burn  Henn  out,'  cried  Stevey,  and  made  a  drive  for 
the  steps.  I  caught  him  and  swung  him  about  while  Henn  hung  over 
the  iron  railings  and  croaked  down  at  us: 

Tf  I  had  a  gun.  Oh,  if  I  only  had  a  gun.' 

'Shut  up,'  I  shouted  at  him.  The  crowd  was  nasty  enough  without 
this. 

'Oh,  for  a  gun,'  he  persisted.  'Just  for  one  minute.  .  .  .' 

'Go  in,  blast  you,'  I  shouted  at  him  while  Gypsy  tried  to  drag  him 
from  the  steps. 

'You're  fine  fellows.  Oh,  you're  great  fellows,'  I  taunted  them. 


338  SEAN  o'faolain 

'You  haven't,  between  the  lot  of  you,  fired  a  single  shot  in  all  this 
district  for  four  months.  Unless  you  shot  a  sitting  hare  or  a  tame  fox. 
It's  what  you'd  do  by  the  look  of  you.  And  now  you  go  and  burn  a 
couple  of  women  out  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  Oh,  you're  grand 
soldiers  entirely.  You  cowardly  mob!' 

'You  keep  your  tongue  quiet';  from  Stevey.  He  was  a  head  higher 
than  me. 

I'm  here  to  talk  to  you,'  I  said,  'and  I'll  give  you  and  your  men 
my  talk  now,  if  you  want  it.  Let  me  tell  you  you  have  the  reputation 
of  being  the  tamest  commandant  .  .  .' 

He  flew  into  a  passion  at  once  and  drew  his  revolver  at  me.  At 
once  the  country  fellows  skipped  aside — they  didn't  at  all  like  this 
business  of  drawing  a  gun  on  one  of  their  own,  and  they  began  to 
mutter  and  pluck  at  Stevey,  and  to  signal  me  to  hold  my  peace; 
but  I  knew  my  man. 

'Now,  now,  Long,'  they  muttered.  'Be  aisy  now,  Long.' 

'You  won't  bully  me,'  I  said.  'Why  don't  you  use  your  gun  on  the 
Tans?' 

He  turned  to  them. 

'Are  you  going  to  be  stopped  by  a  city  caffler?' 

And  to  me: 

'We  know  what  Henn  is.' 

'What  am  I?'  croaked  Henn  who  was  still  grasping  the  railings, 
with  Gypsy  trying  to  persuade  him  to  come  in. 

'What  did  Henn  ever  do  to  you?'  I  asked. 

'Ay,  what  did  I  ever  do  to  you?'  gasped  Henn,  hoarse  with  excite- 
ment, sweeping  his  little  hat  off  his  head  and  leaning  down  over  the 
railings  like  a  man  giving  a  speech.  'What  did  I  do  to  you?  What  did 
I  ever  do  to  you  or  yours?' 

'Ah,'  shouted  Stevey  up  to  him.  'Ah,  you  whore-master' — and  I 
thought  he'd  blow  the  old  man's  brains  out.  'What  do  you  know 
what's  mine  or  yours?  You  blasted  father  of  thousands.' 

Utterly  beyond  himself  he  pointed  with  his  gun  at  Gypsy,  and 
shook  his  fist  in  the  old  man's  eyes. 

'Look  at  that  girl.  What  did  you  do  to  her?  Answer  that  or  you'll 
not  have  a  house  by  morning.' 

Then  quite  without  warning  the  rest  of  them  turned  and  raced 
over  the  lawn  into  the  surrounding  night.  Only  one  waited  to  pluck 
Stevey  by  the  arm  and  whisper: 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  339 

'It's  the  Blakes.  They're  coming.  Come  away  out  of  this.  They'll 
lenow  us.' 

T  don't  care  about  the  Blakes,'  said  Stevey,  too  intent  on  having 
his  way  with  Henn  that  night  to  care  about  anything  else.  'Ask  him,' 
he  said  to  me,  'ask  him  what  did  he  do  to  that  girl!  Ask  him 
that!' 

'Stevey,  Stevey,'  implored  the  girl  as  she  tried  still  to  induce 
Henn  to  move. 

I  drew  Stevey  to  one  side  as  Henn,  who  had  also  seen  the  Blakes 
come  up  the  drive  swaying  with  the  weight  of  the  bundles  they  bore, 
stood  down  on  the  steps  to  meet  them,  his  hat  in  his  hand  like  an 
ambassador  or  a  prince  receiving  his  guests,  his  head  like  a  gander's 
head,  jigging  up  and  down  as  he  bowed  them  in;  and  as  the  two  old 
maids  came  timidly  up  to  him,  peering  here  and  there  in  their  fear, 
and  the  portly  captain,  their  father,  brought  up  the  rear,  peeping 
over  their  shoulders  because  he  was  almost  as  blind  as  Henn,  they 
all  looked  more  like  frightened  ganders  and  geese  than  human  be- 
ings able  to  look  to  themselves.  They  clustered  together  on  their 
way  up  the  steps,  Henn  wheezing  about  not  being  'quite  up  to  the 
tip-top  of  readiness,'  and  saying,  'You  have  me  at  a  disadvantage, 
Miss  Blake.  But  come  in.  A  cup  of  hot  tea,  now.  A  shot  of  Martell's, 
Captain?  Most  regrettable!  Terrible!  This  way,  now.  Allow  me.  This 
way.  That's  right — there  we  are.  .  .  .'  And  so  into  the  hall  with  his 
visitors. 

When  they  were  gone  the  dark  figures  gathered  about  us  again, 
like  wolves,  or  tormenting  flies  that  had  been  driven  aside  for  the 
moment. 

'I'll  make  that  man  marry  the  girl,'  said  Stevey  under  his  breath 
to  me,  'or  I'll  burn  this  house  to  the  very  ground/ 

'We'll  burn  him  out,'  they  growled,  the  lust  for  destruction  in 
their  blood. 

'He'll  marry  the  girl,  or  he'll  have  no  house  over  his  head  by 
morning.' 

'But  the  man  is  eighty  if  he's  a  day,'  I  implored,  'and  the  girl  is 
a  mere  slip  of  a  girl.  Is  she  twenty  itself?' 

'Well,  he  ruined  her,'  said  Stevey  up  to  my  mouth  as  if  he  would 
force  the  words  into  it. 

T  do  not  believe  it,'  I  said. 

Another  shower  had  begun  to  fall  by  now,  growing  heavier  drop 


340  SEAN  o'faolain 

by  drop,  dimming  the  starlight  and  shimmering  dark  about  the  dis- 
tant fire.  Stevey  waved  his  hand  to  his  fellows. 

The  city  fellows  are  a  lot  of  help  to  us,'  he  said.  'But  I'll  show 
you.  I'm  not  going  to  stand  here  all  night  in  the  rain  talking  with 
you.' 

He  rushed  past  me  up  the  steps  and  into  the  house  with  his  mob 
after  him.  I  managed  to  stop  him  at  the  door  of  the  drawing-room 
and  we  parleyed  there  for  a  while,  whispering  as  we  peeped  through 
the  cracked  door.  There,  where  fifty  years  ago  he  had  leant  across 
the  shining  walnut  to  his  perfumed  lights-o'-love,  smiling  quizzically 
down  on  them  from  his  swan's  neck,  approving  the  painted  lips,  the 
tilted  eyebrows,  always  gracious  to  them,  however  cynical,  perpet- 
ually on  the  smile,  only  leaning  back  from  his  scandalous  whisper- 
ing when  the  butler  laid  a  new  course  or  refilled  his  glass — there, 
now,  he  offered  his  smoke-tainted  tea,  with  the  airs  of  fifty  years  ago, 
though  they  creaked  and  stuttered  a  little  from  lack  of  use,  to  the 
two  silent,  miserable  old  maids. 

'Oh,  yes,  do  drink  a  cup  of  tea,  Miss  Blake,'  and  he  puffs  out  his 
cheeks  to  encourage  her.  'Just  one?' 

'Thank  you.  I  don't  believe  I  really  want  one,  Mr.  Henn/ 

'Oh,  just  one  cup.  Just  one.' 

But  they  sat  very  straight-backed  and  unbending,  trying  hard  not 
to  keep  looking  over  the  valley  at  their  ruined  home.  They  looked 
instead  at  the  soiled  tablecloth,  the  unequal  ware,  the  tarnished  sil- 
ver, or  at  one  another,  or  at  the  old  captain,  their  father,  who  sat 
sucking  his  brandy,  heavy  jowled  and  heavy  bodied,  by  Henn's  fire. 
Or  they  looked  at  Gypsy,  who,  careless  of  her  ungainly,  ungirlish 
shape,  danced  superfluous  attendance  on  them,  full  of  pity  for 
their  misfortune,  glad  to  be  in  the  presence  of  real  ladies  even  for 
an  hour. 

So  they  were  sitting  when  Stevey  burst  in  on  them,  calling  on 
Henn  so  loudly  that  they  almost  screamed. 

'Henn,'  he  said.  'We  want  you.' 

'Don't  go,  Henn,'  said  the  captain  at  once,  as  if  he  felt  as  much  for 
his  own  sake  as  for  Henn's  that  it  was  better  they  should  cling  to- 
gether now. 

'What  do  you  want,  now?'  stuttered  Henn. 

T  want  you  to  come  too,  Gypsy,'  said  Stevey. 

'Oh,  Stevey,  Stevey,'  said  the  girl,  utterly  ashamed  before  the  com- 
pany. 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  341 

'Come  on,  Henn,'  bullied  Stevey.  'Or  will  I  tell  my  business  here?' 

'Out  with  it,'  says  the  captain. 

'One  minute  now,'  pleaded  Henn. 

I  thought  it  best  to  get  the  matter  over,  and  went  up  to  the  old 
man  and  whispered  that  it  would  be  best  to  come — I  could  not  keep 
those  fellows  in  hand  for  him  any  longer. 

'Don't  go,  Henn,'  said  the  captain  again. 

'No,  no,'  said  the  old  maids,  with  the  same  thought  as  their  father 
in  their  minds  that  even  Henn  was  better  than  nothing  in  their  ex- 
tremity, homeless  as  they  were  at  this  hour  of  the  morning. 

But  he  rose  and  went  into  the  kitchen  and  Stevey  and  Gypsy  and 
I  after  him.  There  he  turned  and  faced  us,  looking  down  over  us  all, 
even  over  Stevey  himself.  And  Stevey  alone  returned  his  glare,  for 
the  girl  sat  with  her  head  in  her  hands  by  the  fire  and  I  looked  at 
the  rain  spitting  on  the  dark  window.  When  Stevey  had  finished,  all 
Henn  could  say  was,  'You  liar,  you  liar!'  And  all  the  girl  could  do 
was  weep  and  say,  'My  misfortune.  My  misfortune.  My  misfortune.' 
Even  when  I  went  to  her  and  put  my  hand  on  her  shoulder  she  only 
burst  away  from  me  and  cried  to  let  her  alone,  let  her  alone  in  her 
misfortune;  for  God's  sake  to  let  her  alone  in  her  misfortune,  and 
sat  at  the  table  hiding  her  face  in  her  hands,  shaken  with  tears. 

'You  liar!'  muttered  Henn. 

'I'm  no  liar,'  cried  Stevey. 

As  the  girl  wept  with  renewed  shame  that  no  man  would  own  now 
that  he  ever  loved  her,  Henn  looked  at  her  and  said  very  gently  to 
me: 

'Supposing  I  won't  marry  her?' 

'No  harm  will  come  to  your  person,'  I  said,  and  faced  Stevey  on 
that. 

'Your  house  will  go  the  way  of  Blake's,'  said  Stevey  and  faced  me 
on  that.  'If  not  tonight,  tomorrow  night;  and  if  not  then,  the  night 
after.  But  if  I  have  to  wait  a  year  to  do  it,  up  it  will  go.' 

I  shook  the  wretched  girl  by  the  shoulder. 

'Do  you  want  to  marry  this  old  man?'  I  cried  into  her  ear. 

She  gave  no  reply. 

'Speak  up,  Gypsy,'  said  Stevey.  'You  will  marry  him,  won't  you? 
You  said  you  would.' 

She  said  not  a  word  now. 

'I'll  not  marry  her,'  said  Henn. 

Stevey  had  cunning  enough  to  play  his  last  card. 


342  SEAN  o'faolain 

'Then  tell  your  Blake  friends  to  get  out  of  this  house,  if  they  have 
sense.  Or,  you  needn't — I'll  do  it.' 

Henn  stopped  him  at  the  door. 

'Stop.  Don't!  Don't!' 

And  thereupon  he  sank  into  a  chair  with  a  sudden  dizziness,  and 
I  had  to  hold  him  up  from  falling  sidelong  to  the  floor. 

'Gypsy,'  I  said.  'Get  a  sup  of  whisky.' 

'Alec!'  she  said,  going  to  him,  and  he  took  her  hand,  her  little 
hand  in  his  when  she  stood  by  his  side  and  said  his  name.  'Alec! 
Will  I  get  a  sup  of  brandy?' 

There  was  silence  for  a  few  minutes,  with  only  the  noise  of  the 
rain  cat-pattering  against  the  window  and  the  three  of  us  over 
Henn.  At  last  he  began  to  whisper  through  his  fingers,  and  I  leaned 
down  to  hear  him. 

'Will  she  marry  me?'  he  was  whispering  while  the  spittle  dropped 
like  a  cow's  spittle  between  his  fingers  to  the  flagged  floor. 

'Now!'  cried  Stevey  triumphantly.  'Gypsy!  Will  you  have  him?' 

In  her  deep  man's  voice  she  replied: 

'And  who  else  would  have  me  now?  Since  others  won't — 
others  that  have  their  own  life  and  their  own  plans  and  plots?' 

And  seeing  that  the  old  man  was  riot  in  need  of  help  she  went  out 
of  the  kitchen,  holding  her  stomach  in  her  little  palms,  murmuring 
as  she  went: 

T  will,  if  he  will.' 

I  pushed  Stevey  before  me  from  the  kitchen  and  leaving  Henn  to 
himself  we  drove  the  rest  of  the  herd  before  us  from  the  hall,  into  the 
darkness,  so  rain-arrowy  and  cold.  From  the  great  front  door  I 
watched  them  go  tramping  down  the  avenue  and  as  I,  too, 
turned  to  go  upstairs  to  my  bed  I  heard  Henn,  back  in  the  drawing- 
room,  trying  once  more  to  play  the  host,  after  his  fifty  years'  interval, 
with  his  smoky  tea  and  his  patched  ware.  I  wondered  as  I  tramped 
upstairs  if  he  was  thinking  that,  with  this  young  wife,  he  might  be- 
gin life  again. 

From  my  bed  I  heard  the  summer  downpour  drip  about  the  house 
and  occasionally  spit  down  the  chimney  on  the  damp  papers  stuffed 
in  the  grate,  tainting  all  the  room  with  their  sooty  reek.  Not  until 
late  noon  did  I  hear  another  sound,  and  then  it  was  the  birds  sing- 
ing and  the  croaking  corncrake  and  the  doves  in  the  high  woods,  and 
when  I  rose  the  whole  house  was  radiant  with  sunshine  reflected 
from  the  fields  and  the  trees.  There  was  nobody  about  the  house  but 


MIDSUMMER   NIGHT   MADNESS  343 

Gypsy.  The  Blakes  had  gone  since  early  morning  and  Henn  did  not 
leave  his  bed  for  several  days.  Stevey  I  could  find  nowhere  and  the 
local  men  said  he  was  gone  into  Kerry,  swearing  he  would  only  re- 
turn to  make  Henn  keep  to  his  promise.  Two  days  I  waited  for  him 
and  searched  about  for  news  of  him,  and  then  I  called  a  meeting 
of  his  battalion  and  replaced  him  by  a  new  commandant. 

One  evening  I  left  Henn  Hall  as  I  had  come,  but  before  I  went  I 
visited  Henn  in  his  room  to  say  good-bye  and  I  found  him  sitting 
over  his  fire,  drinking  punch  and  reading  an  Anglers  Annual  of 
thirty  years  ago. 

'Be  careful  of  yourself,  boy,'  he  warned  as  I  turned  to  leave  him. 

'Oh,  yes/  I  said.  Til  be  careful/ 

'Do  you  believe  Long's  story?'  he  said  then,  leaning  forward  to  me. 

T  have  no  cause,'  I  parried,  'to  believe  or  disbelieve  anybody.' 

He  leaned  back  and  stared  at  the  fire. 

'Anyway,'  he  said  after  a  while,  'I'm  going  to  marry  her.  She's  as 
good  as  the  next,  and  better  than  some,  even  though  she  is  only  a 
tinker's  daughter.  Besides,'  he  added  proudly,  'if  it's  a  boy  'twill 
keep  the  name  alive.' 

As  if  he  were  a  Hapsburg  or  a  Bourbon! 

One  night  two  months  or  so  later  we  heard  in  our  backyard  bed- 
room that  a  strange  pair  left  Cork  for  Dublin  that  afternoon  on 
the  Mail  Express,  all  their  dozen  or  so  of  trunks  and  bags  labelled 
forward  to  an  address  in  Paris.  The  woman,  in  a  massive  hat  with  a 
scarlet  feather,  had  flaunted  her  way  to  her  carriage — the  old  man, 
her  husband,  hobbling  and  shuffling  along  yards  behind  her.  His 
travelling  coat  almost  completely  hid  him,  its  tail  touching  the 
ground,  its  coat-collar  up  about  his  ears,  and  so  weak  did  his  eyes  ap- 
pear to  be  that  even  in  the  dim  filtered  light  of  the  station  he  had 
cocked  his  hat  forward  over  his  eyebrows  and  shaded  his  eyes  with 
his  withered  hand  as  he  walked.  But  I  find  it  too  painful  to  think  of 
him,  there  in  Paris,  with  his  scraps  of  governess-French,  guiding  his 
tinker  wife  through  the  boulevards,  the  cafes,  the  theatres — seeing 
once  more  the  lovely  women  and  the  men  gay  in  their  hour.  Life  is 
too  pitiful  in  these  recapturings  of  the  temps  perdu,  these  brief  in- 
tervals of  reality. 


EDWARD     SHEEHY 

God  Send  Sunday1 

At  midday  Padna  found  himself  outside;  heard  the  iron  gate  clang 
behind  him;  stood  for  a  while  listening  to  the  keys  jangling  in  time 
with  the  heavy  tread  of  the  porter  returning  to  his  lodge.  The  sky 
wide  and  blue,  white  roads  going  three  ways  made  him  want  to  call 
the  porter  and  ask  to  be  let  in  again.  Then  he  remembered  the  vil- 
lage and  Sunday.  It's  better  for  a  man,  Padna  thought,  to  be  with 
people  you  know  in  a  place  you  are  used  to  than  among  strangers. 
In  the  village  the  creamery  said  honk-honk-honk-honk  all  day  long 
and  the  men  played  twenty-five  in  the  yard  behind  Dorney's.  Mr. 
Dorney  said:  How  are  we  to-day,  Padna?  Everybody  said  Padna. 
Hello,  Padna!  Get  to  hell  out  of  the  way,  Padna!  But  in  there  they 
were  all  too  busy  thinking  of  themselves  and  their  own  importance. 
Of  course  they  had  to  be  that  way  to  be  famous  like  the  man  who 
made  all  the  railways  in  the  world,  or  like  the  man  who  married  the 
Indian  princess  and  had  one  hundred  and  twenty-seven  children  the 
first  year.  There  was  no  use  in  being  in  there  unless  you  had  some 
call  to  fame.  A  simple  fellow  like  Padna  might  forget  who  he  was 
entirely  and  forget  the  village.  That  would  be  a  bad  thing. 

He  took  the  middle  road  and  padded  along  through  the  soft 
dust,  going  back  in  his  mind  over  the  morning  and  the  good  thing 
that  had  happened.  The  chaplain  gave  him  a  black  suit  that  hadn't  a 
single  hole  anywhere,  not  even  at  the  elbows.  People  would  take  him 
for  an  important  person  with  the  kind  of  suit  a  doctor  would  wear,  or 
a  stationmaster  if  it  had  silver  buttons,  and  a  gentleman's  shirt  to  go 
with  it,  white  as  writing  paper.  Yea,  now,  wouldn't  they  get  the 
start  of  their  lives  in  the  village  to  see  the  toff  Padna  had  become? 
With  money  in  his  pocket  too,  silver. 

The  man  with  the  glasses  was  ferreting  around  among  the  papers 
on  the  desk;  then  he  looked  up  and  said: 

'This  is  your  train  fare,  Sweeney.  Do  you  understand?' 

Sure  Padna  understood;  but  he  didn't  like  trains.  There  was  no  use 
in  saying  that  though.  There  was  no  use  in  saying:  I  don't  like  this 
or  that  or  the  other.  It  only  landed  you  in  trouble. 

'Sweeney,  your  train  starts  in  half  an  hour.  You  know  the  sta- 


1  Number  Five  of  The  Tower  Press  Booklets    (Third  Series),  Dublin,   1939. 

344 


GOD    SEND    SUNDAY  345 

tion?  At  the  ticket  office  ask  for  a  single  to  Coolnamanac.  Remember 
that,  a  single  to  Coolnamanac' 

'Yea,  sir,  a  single  to  Coolnamanac/  It  wasn't  any  trouble  to  say 
and  saying  it  didn't  take  you  there. 

I'll  be  worried  about  you,  Sweeney,'  the  man  with  the  glasses  said, 
'but  I  can't  spare  a  man  to  go  with  you.  But  I  ask  you,  what  in  God's 
name  can  a  man  do  when  half  his  staff  turns  out  to  be  brigadiers 
and  commandants  and  the  devil  knows  what  else?' 

You  didn't  have  to  answer  a  man  who  was  talking  to  himself. 

'At  the  station  Padna  says  a  single  to  Coolnamanac?  Yea?' 

'You'll  do,'  the  man  said,  'and  take  care  you  don't  become  a  gen- 
eral. They're  looking  for  men  like  you.' 

'So  long,'  Padna  said,  'see  you  in  blighty.'  The  man  who  kept  the 
aeroplanes  had  taught  him  that.  It  was  a  good  saying;  it  made  peo- 
ple laugh.  Even  though  the  man  himself  was  a  bloody  liar,  he  had 
good  sayings. 

The  village  was  behind  miles  of  country  to  the  northwest.  He 
knew  that  without  having  to  think.  First  there  was  level  country  for 
a  long  way,  then  the  hills,  then  level  country  again  for  a  while  and 
then  the  village.  And  now  it  was  pleasant  to  walk  the  white,  dusty 
road  with  no  one  to  say:  Don't  go  there,  Sweeney!  Don't  do  that, 
Sweeney!  People  with  quiet  voices  were  saving  hay  in  the  meadows. 
The  sound  of  the  mowing-machine  was  bigger  than  the  sound  of  the 
grasshopper  in  the  meadowsweet  of  the  ditches.  No  one  said  Padna 
until  the  village.  When  the  haymakers  said:  Padna  is  back!  Hi  lads, 
Padna  is  back,  then  he  could  lie  in  the  hay  and  they  would  give  him 
porter  and  yallabuck  at  noon.  But  not  till  then.  He  must  be  in  the 
village  all  the  time  and  at  the  same  time  he  was  here  with  a  long 
way  to  walk  yet.  Some  things  were  impossible  to  understand.  A  man 
itches  when  he  has  fleas.  There's  reason  in  that.  But  some  things 
have  no  reason.  There  must  be  things  that  even  the  priest  wouldn't 
know  the  reason  of. 

The  road  was  straight  and  white  and  grew  narrow  away  from  you. 
Away  from  you  the  telegraph-poles  grew  smaller  and  closer  together. 
But  the  one  near  you  was  always  the  same  and  the  road  always  the 
same  width.  A  lorry  coming  along  behind  was  kicking  clouds  of  grey 
dust  into  the  hedges.  He  got  up  on  the  bank  to  let  it  pass.  But  instead 
of  passing,  the  lorry  slowed  down  and  stopped.  There  were  two  men 
in  the  cabin,  the  driver  who  had  a  square,  freckled  face  and  hair  the 


346  EDWARD    SHEEHY 

colour  of  hay,  and  a  small  dark  fellow  with  bright  black  eyes  and  a 
flat  nose. 

'Want  a  lift,  Mister?'  the  driver  said. 

'Thanks,'  Padna  said. 

They  made  room  for  him  in  the  cabin  and  he  sat  up  next  to  Flat- 
nose.  There  was  a  sound  under  his  feet  like  a  giant  bee  in  a  jam- 
jar. The  lorry  jerked  forward.  They  moved  faster  and  faster. 

After  a  while  they  came  to  a  bridge;  you  could  see  that  the  bridge 
was  broken.  The  lorry  stopped.  Flatnose  got  down  and  took  two 
planks  from  the  back  of  the  lorry.  He  laid  the  planks  across  the  gap 
in  the  bridge.  While  he  was  at  that  the  driver  said: 

'The  country's  in  a  nice  state,  Mister.' 

'Yea,'  Padna  said,  'Fine.' 

'Hell,'  the  driver  said,  'You  wouldn't  talk  like  that  if  you  had  to 
jack  this  bus  out  of  trenches  a  couple  of  times  a  day.  Yea,  and  how 
would  you  like  to  find  yourself  at  four  in  the  bloody  morning  with 
the  biggest  tree  in  Ireland  across  the  road  in  front  of  you  and  turn 
back  and  find  they'd  dropped  another  a  couple  of  miles  behind 
you?  Hell,'  the  driver  said,  'It's  a  fine  bloody  job,  all  right.'  Slowly 
he  drove  forward  across  the  planks. 

'How  would  you  like  to  be  commandeered  by  one  side  today  and 
the  other  to-morrow  and  never  know  the  minute  some  bloody 
idiot'll  let  a  gun  off  in  your  ribs?  Yea,  it's  all  very  well  for  them  but  a 
man  has  to  make  a  living  and  I've  a  wife  and  three  kids.  Yea!' 

'Three  kids,'  Padna  said.  T  like  kids,  you  know,  when  they're 
small,  before  they  shout  and  throw  stones.' 

'Yea,'  the  driver  said,  Tads  is  all  right;  but  they've  got  to  be  fed. 
See?  And  they've  got  to  have  boots.  See?  And  them  three  of  mine, 
they're  only  fly-weight,  but  they're  harder  on  boots  than  this  bus  is 
on  tyres.' 

'Kids  don't  care  about  boots,'  Padna  said. 

'Sure,'  the  driver  said,  *but  you  don't  know  my  missis.  She's  got 
notions.' 

Flatnose  was  stowing  away  the  planks  in  the  back  of  the  lorry. 

'Do  you  know,  Mister,'  the  driver  said,  'the  only  job  for  a  man  at 
the  present  time?' 

'What's  that?'  Padna  said. 

'Patriotism,'  the  driver  said,  'if  you're  a  patriot  you  can  do  any- 
thing; if  you're  not  you're  only  in  the  way.' 


GOD    SEND   SUNDAY  347 

'Sure,'  Padna  said.  The  redcoats  pointed  their  guns  and  the 
patriot  had  a  green  coat  standing  there  waiting  for  the  bang  to  fall. 
Then  the  people  cheered. 

'Say,  Mister,'  the  driver  said,  'isn't  it  kind  of  unusual,  the  beard  I 
mean.  You  wouldn't  be  an  artist  now?' 

Tm  Padna,  Mister.' 

T  thought  you  might  be  an  artist,'  the  driver  said. 

'No,  Mister,  just  Padna.' 

'Padna!'  The  driver  looked  hard  at  him. 

'Yea,'  Padna  said,  'they  all  know  that  in  the  village  where  I'm 
going.  Padna  lives  in  the  village  and  the  old  one  washes  out 
the  chapel  and  goes  to  the  doctor's  and  Dorney's  other  days.' 

'That's  fine,'  the  driver  said.  'So  your  old  one  washes  out  the 
chapel.' 

'Yea.  On  Sunday  though  she  stays  home  and  there's  pig's  cheek/ 

'That's  fine,'  the  driver  said. 

Flatnose  climbed  back  into  the  cabin. 

They  started  off  again  and  soon  the  road  was  coming  up  and  up 
and  suddenly  disappearing  under  you.  The  telegraph  poles  kept 
shooting  up  .  .  .  prp  .  .  .  prp  .  .  .  into  the  sky.  Fat  green  trees 
were  whipped  past  your  ear.  The  driver  and  Flatnose  were  talk- 
ing but  he  couldn't  hear  what  they  said  with  the  roar  of  the  engine. 
Flatnose  was  laughing. 

After  a  while  the  driver  leaned  across  and  shouted: 

'Say,  Padna,  where  do  you  want  to  get  to?' 

Padna  smiled;  he  loved  to  hear  the  name;  there  couldn't  be 
trouble  with  anyone  who  knew  the  name. 

'Home,'  he  said,  'in  the  village.  That's  where.' 

'Home,'  Flatnose  said. 

'Yea,  home,'  Padna  said. 

'But  where?'  Flatnose  said.  'What's  the  name  of  the  place?  We're 
not  a  pair  of  bloody  mind-readers.' 

'In  the  lane  behind  Mr.  Dorney's,'  Padna  said.  'They  play  cards 
there  in  the  yard.  The  old  one  lives  behind  there.  I'll  show  you. 
Maybe  there'll  be  pig's  cheek.  Maybe  she'll  give  ye  some  if  'tis  Sun- 
day.' 

'No  bon,'  the  driver  said,  'the  poor  bastard  .  .  .' 

'Yea,'  Flatnose  said,  'he's  nuts  all  right.  He  might  know  him- 
self where  to  get  down  though.  Them  looneys  has  instincts,  like 


348  EDWARD   SHEEHY 

homing  pigeons,  or  even  you  might  say  like  drunks.  Did  you  ever 
find  yourself  at  home  after  a  skite  without  knowing  how  you  got 
there?' 

'Did  I  hell?'  the  driver  said. 

How  soon  is  Sunday,  Padna  wondered,  with  mass  in  the  morn- 
ing and  all  the  people  dressed  up  and  maybe  a  play  in  the  hall  that 
night.  If  he  wasn't  Padna  he'd  like  to  be  the  patriot  in  the  play  and 
wait  for  the  bang  and  fall,  only  first  he'd  speak  and  all  the  people 
would  listen.  But  Padna  had  to  stay  at  the  back  and  promise  to  be 
quiet. 

He  nudged  Flatnose  and  asked: 

'When  is  Sunday,  Mister?' 

'He  wants  to  know  when   is   Sunday,'  Flatnose  grinned. 

'Tomorrow,'  Flatnose  said.  'To-day's  Saturday,  to-morrow's  Sun- 
day.' Padna  nodded  and  smiled. 

'I'd  like  to  know  where  he's  going  though,'  the  driver  said.  'I 
don't  like  the  idea  of  taking  the  poor  bastard  miles  out  of  his  way/ 

'Yerra,  he  don't  care,'  Flatnose  said.  'That  kind  don't  know  the 
meaning  of  time.' 

'All  the  same,'  the  driver  said. 

In  front  was  a  low  hill  capped  with  pines.  Under  the  pines 
a  wheatfield  was  between  green  and  gold  and  under  that  a  red- 
roofed  house  half-hid  among  trees.  What,  thought  Padna,  happens 
here?  He  knew  when  he  saw  the  side-road,  the  triangle  of  dusty 
grass.  But  already  the  lorry  had  heeled  away  round  the  bend.  He 
tugged  Flatnose  by  the  sleeve.  He  shook  his  head  in  Flatnose's  face 
and  pointed  towards  the  right.  The  lorry  slowed  down  and  stopped. 

'I  told  you,'  Flatnose  said,  'they  has  instincts.' 

'Is  that  the  way  you  go?'  the  driver  asked. 

'Yea,'  Padna  said,  scrambling  down  to  the  road.  He  put  a  hand 
in  his  pocket  and  took  out  one  of  the  half-crowns.  Smiling  he 
handed  it  to  Flatnose  who  took  it  in  spite  of  the  driver's  vicious  el- 
bow in  his  ribs. 

'Buy  a  drink,'  Padna  said,  'buy  two  drinks.' 

'Sure,'  Flatnose  said,  'we'll  give  you  all  the  best.' 

'So  long  and  thanks,'  Padna  said.  'See  you  in  blighty,'  and  disap- 
peared. 

'You  shouldn't  have  taken  that  dough,'  the  driver  said. 

'He'd  take  you  in  all  right  in  them  togs,'  Flatnose  said,  'the  spit  of 
Parnell.' 


GOD    SEND    SUNDAY  349 

'You  shouldn't  have  taken  that  dough,'  the  driver  said. 

'Aw/  Flatnose  said,  'that  kind  don't  know  the  value  of  money. 
They  has  instincts  all  right,  but  they're  innocent.' 

'All  the  same/  the  driver  said,  revving  up  and  slipping  in  the 
clutch. 

Travelling  was  easy  in  fine  weather.  You  could  sleep  anywhere. 
When  you  got  hungry  you  went  to  the  door  of  the  next  house  and 
said:  For  the  love  of  God,  for  the  sake  of  your  nearest  and  dearest  in 
purgatory  this  day,  that  the  Lord  may  grant  them  a  lessening  of 
their  pains  and  a  short  term.  That  was  a  good  saying;  it  nearly  al- 
ways meant  a  bite  and  a  sup.  'Twas  the  best  the  old  one  knew,  she 
always  said.  Anyway  it  got  him  the  plateful  of  potatoes  and  a  bowl 
of  buttermilk  from  the  young  woman  in  the  slate  house.  The  milk 
was  straight  from  the  churn  and  had  primrose  blobs  of  butter  in  it. 
The  men  coming  in  from  the  hayfield  wanted  news  of  the  election. 
How  were  the  people  feeling  to  the  south?  Was  it  true  that  Mr. 
Connaughton  was  going  to  address  a  meeting  in  Coolnamanac  that 
very  Sunday?  Padna  nodded  and  smiled.  'Duine  le  Via,'1  they  said, 
pityingly.  They  gave  him  a  square  of  yallabuck  to  take  on  his  road. 

That  night  he  slept  in  a  hayfield,  the  mountains  still  between  him 
and  the  village.  With  the  crimson  daybreak  he  was  on  the  road 
again,  the  narrow  hill  road  through  heath  and  rock  and  twisted 
bushes.  The  cock-grouse  crowed  and  the  hens  said  go-back,  go-back. 
It  was  Sunday  already  and  his  legs  weren't  quick  enough  for  his 
hurry. 

Soon  everyone  would  say  Padna.  In  the  window  of  the  medical 
hall  were  the  father  and  mother  of  all  the  bottles,  red  and  yellow. 
He  would  promise  not  to  make  a  sound  and  they  would  let  him  sit 
at  the  back  of  the  hall.  That  was  where  he  wanted  to  be  listening  to 
the  crowd  cheering,  clapping,  shouting,  the  grand  words  of  the  pa- 
triot ready  to  die  for  Ireland. 

The  sun  was  high  and  white.  The  lowlands  stretched  to  meet  the 
sky.  The  hay  was  cut  in  the  meadows.  The  corn  was  turning  gold. 
As  he  came  down  out  of  the  hill  he  met  the  people  going  to  mass. 
They  too  were  going  to  the  village,  black-coated  men  in  twos  and 
threes,  fawn-shawled  women  perched  high  in  red  carts.  The  men 


1  Literally  'a  person  with  God,'  a  half-wit. 


350  EDWARD    SHEEHY 

bade  him  good-day;  the  young  women  giggled  under  their  shawls. 
Padna  smiled  at  them  and  kept  on  his  way.  It  was  Sunday  and  he 
would  go  to  mass.  At  home  the  old  one  always  said:  Come  here, 
Padna,  till  1  wash  your  face  if  you're  going  to  be  in  time  for  mass. 

The  chapel  was  hidden  among  trees,  pines  straight  as  brush-han- 
dles to  which  the  country-men  were  hitching  their  horses.  The  bell 
clanged.  The  women  hurried;  the  men  sauntered  towards  the  door. 
The  bell  hammering  away  above  his  head  had  a  good  sound,  a  sound 
that  he  knew.  Inside  he  threw  a  handful  of  holy  water  over  him- 
self and  the  floor,  bobbed  his  knee  and  slipped  back  into  the  corner 
behind  the  baptismal  font.  His  lips  kept  saying:  Hail-Mary-full-of- 
grace-the-Lord-is-with-thee,  as  he  looked  round  the  chapel  wonder- 
ing if  the  old  one  was  at  this  mass.  As  the  priest  came  out  on  the  altar 
about  twenty  men  stamped  into  the  porch  and  stacked  their  rifles  in 
the  corner.  All  the  people  turned  round  in  their  places  to  look  at 
them  as  they  came  in  and  crowded  in  Padna's  corner,  leaning  back 
against  the  wall,  crouching  on  one  knee  on  the  board  floor. 

Padna  was  glad  because  it  was  the  village.  When  the  priest  turned 
round  it  was  Father  Gogarty  saying:  'Your  prayers  are  requested 
for  the  repose  of  the  souls  of  .  .  .'  They  were  Sunday  words.  Now 
he  was  looking  straight  at  Padna  down  the  whole  length  of  the 
chapel.  The  people  were  turning  to  see  who  the  priest  was  talking 
to.  'There  are  men  here  in  this  church,'  the  priest  was  saying,  who 
should  be  ashamed  to  show  their  faces  in  the  house  of  God.' 

Padna  was  suddenly  afraid  with  words  like  that  at  his  throat. 
Only  for  the  men  about  him  he  would  have  made  for  the  door. 
They  were  angry  too,  muttering  among  themselves.  He  shrank  back 
into  his  corner  from  so  much  anger  around  him.  'Men,'  Father  Go- 
garty went  on,  'who  are  doing  the  work  of  Anti-Christ,  who  are  in 
the  pay  of  the  red  menace  of  Moscow,  traitors  and  renegades  to 
the  religion  and  the  country  of  their  forefathers.' 

What  makes  him  talk  like  that  to  me,  Padna  wondered;  is  it  be- 
cause I  didn't  take  the  train,  single  for  Coolnamanac,  like  the  man 
with  the  glasses  said?  Here  is  another  thing  without  reason. 

Near  him  a  man  with  a  hook  nose  and  a  long  face  said: 

'Come  on,  boys,  I've  had  enough  of  this.' 

Hooknose  turned;  the  others  crowded  after  him,  tramping  out 
into  the  porch.  The  way  was  clear;  he  could  get  away  now  from  the 
voice  and  the  eyes  of  all  the  people.  In  a  few  quick  steps  he  was 
through  the  door,  through  the  porch,  standing  in  front  of  the  men 


GOD   SEND    SUNDAY  351 

who  were  slinging  the  rifles  across  their  shoulders.  He  had  to  stop. 

'So  you  couldn't  stand  it  either/  Hooknose  said. 

Padna  nodded. 

'He's  Connaughton's  man  all  right,'  Hooknose  said,  jerking  his 
head  towards  the  chapel  where  the  voice  was  beating  against  the 
walls  trying  to  follow  them  out. 

'Yea,'  Padna  said. 

Hooknose  stiffened  and  said: 

Tm  Commandant  Michael  Caffrey,  Coolnamanac  Number  One 
Brigade.' 

The  whole  world  is  talking  about  this  Coolnamanac,  Padna 
thought. 

Hooknose  was  waiting  for  Padna  to  say  something;  they  were  all 
waiting. 

'Well,'  Hooknose  said,  'and  who  might  you  be,  Mister?' 

'Oh,  I'm  Padna,'  Padna  said. 

'Padna!'  Hooknose  said.  'I  can't  say  I  know  the  name.  It  isn't  by 
any  chance  an  alias,  Mr.  Padna?' 

'Not  Mister,'  Padna  said,  'just  Padna.' 

'Well  then,  would  you  mind  telling  me  what's  your  connection 
with  the  movement?'  Hooknose  said.  He  was  getting  angry.  Padna 
had  nothing  to  say  to  a  question  he  didn't  know  the  meaning  of. 

'Come  on,'  Hooknose  barked,  'what  are  you?' 

That  was  easy;  the  men  who  played  cards  in  the  yard  behind  Dor- 
ney's  had  taught  him  the  answer  to  that. 

'Padna's  a  fool,'  he  said.  It  was  a  good  answer  because  it  made 
them  all  laugh,  all  except  Hooknose.  But  the  others  laughed  and 
joked. 

'Who  did  you  think  you  had,  Mick?  Trotsky?' 

Then  a  fat  red-cheeked  fellow  slapped  his  thighs  and  laughed: 

'Boys-o-boys,  'tis  Padna  Sweeney.  Judy's  Padna.  'Twas  the  beard 
put  me  out/ 

Padna  smiled  at  him  eagerly.  In  the  fat  fellow's  eyes  he  saw  the 
old  look  of  the  village. 

'Yea,  sure,  'tis  Padna.  Sure.  Padna  Sweeney/  the  men  said.  Hook- 
nose was  moving  off. 

'Come  on/  he  said.  'Don't  stay  there  all  day  with  that  idiot/  The 
others  turned  to  follow  him. 

'Wait,  Mister/  Pndna  said,  following  at  the  fat  fellow's  side.  'Tell 
me  a  thing,  Mister.' 


352  EDWARD    SHEEHY 

'Sure,'  the  fat  fellow  said.  'Anything  you  like,  Padna,  anything 
you  bloody  well  like/ 

'Will  there  be  a  play  at  the  hall,  Mister,  as  'tis  Sunday?' 

The  fat  fellow's  laughter  went  jittering  through  the  hollow  air 
under  the  pines.  The  others  turned. 

'He  wants  to  know  will  there  be  a  play  at  the  hall  to-night.  Will 
there  be  a  play  at  the  hall  to-night?' 

They  all  laughed,  except  Hooknose. 

'Yea,'  Hooknose  said,  'a  play  and  a  half,  a  farce  with  a  bloody  fine 
finish.' 

'Fine,'  Padna  said.  'That's  fine.' 

They  were  on  the  road  now,  going  towards  the  village. 

'Say,  Padna,'  the  fat  fellow  asked,  'what  kind  of  a  play  do  you 
like?'' 

Padna  raised  his  right  arm  above  his  head,  clenched  his  fist,  turned 
his  eyes  to  heaven  and  said:  'Death  to  the  Saxon  foe!'  He  took  up 
the  position  of  a  man  aiming  a  rifle  .  .  .  'Bang-bang.'  Then  he  came 
erect,  looked  at  them.  'You  know,'  he  said,  'like  that.' 

'Then  Padna,  you  couldn't  wish  to  see  a  better  play  than  the  one 
to-night,'  the  fat  fellow  said,  'especially  as  you  seem  to  be  a  bit  of  a 
patriot  yourself.' 

'Do  you  mean  that,  Mister?  Honest?'  Padna  blurted  out,  holding 
the  fat  fellow  to  a  standstill  by  the  sleeve.  'You're  not  just  taking  a 
rise  out  of  me?' 

'Do  I  mean  what?'  They  moved  on,  after  the  others. 

'About  Padna  being  a  bit  of  a  patriot,  Mister.' 

'Sure  I  mean  it.  Didn't  you  say  yourself:  "Death  to  the  Saxon 
foe?"  Didn't  you  register  a  protest  by  going  again'  the  priest  when 
he  insulted  the  national  ideals?  What  more  do  you  want?' 

T  don't  know,'  Padna  said. 

'Well,  I'm  telling  you,'  the  fat  fellow  said. 

'Thanks,  Mister,'  Padna  said.  'When  I  go  home  I'll  tell  the  old  one.' 

'Don't,  Padna,'  he  spoke  solemnly.  'She  wouldn't  like  it.' 

'But  why,  Mister?  She  was  always  at  me  to  be  something.' 

'Don't  ask  me  why,'  the  fat  fellow  said.  'Only  take  my  advice  and 
don't.  And  remember  another  thing,'  he  winked  knowingly,  'patri- 
ots never  ask  questions.  They  just  go  right  ahead.  That's  what  they 
do.' 

'Thanks,  Mister,'  Padna  said. 

They  crossed  the  bridge  over  the  railway-line.  Across  the  village 


GOD    SEND   SUNDAY  353 

street  a  dog  sauntered,  stopping  to  gaze  at  his  shadow  every  now 
and  then.  A  distant,  wavering  drone  came  up  from  the  valley. 
Hooknose  stopped  and  held  up  his  hand.  They  all  stooped,  listening. 

'Come  on,'  Hooknose  said.  The  men  were  unslinging  their  rifles. 
After  Hooknose  they  scrambled  across  the  stone  wall  on  the  left.  On 
the  other  side  of  the  wall  the  fat  fellow  turned  and  said: 

'Go  home,  Padna.  Quick!  Go  on,  hurry.' 

'See  you  in  blighty,'  Padna  said,  smiling.  That  was  a  nice  fellow. 

Padna  went  up  the  empty  street.  There  in  the  window  of  the 
medical  hall  were  the  bottles,  but  not  so  big,  not  so  wonderful  after 
all.  The  shutters  were  up  in  Dorney's  for  the  Sunday.  Hurrying,  he 
turned  the  corner  into  the  lane.  From  the  yard  came  the  smell  of 
horsedung  and  stale  porter,  the  sound  of  a  horse-hoof  striking  con- 
crete to  wound  the  dull  murmur  of  the  flies. 

The  last  of  three  low  houses  was  the  house,  the  same,  only  grown 
down  with  age  like  an  old  fellow  who'd  be  leaning  on  a  stick.  He 
pushed  in  the  half-door  and  stooped  into  the  brown  dusk  of  the 
kitchen.  There  was  the  old  one  sitting  in  the  basket-chair  by  the 
fire,  looking  at  him  with  her  mouth  as  wide  as  a  sluice. 

'I'm  giving  her  the  surprise  of  her  life,'  Padna  thought,  'coming 
in  like  this  with  a  suit  on  me  that  hasn't  a  single  hole  anywhere,  not 
even  at  the  elbows,  and  a  shirt,  the  like  of  which  only  a  toff  would 
wear  on  a  Sunday,  it's  that  fine  and  white.' 

'Padna,'  Judy  Sweeney  said,  'Padna.'  She  got  slowly  to  her  feet  and 
came  towards  him.  'Is  it  you,  my  poor  boy?  Is  it  you,  alannah?  Tell 
me  because  the  sight's  not  too  good  at  me,  alannah.' 1 

She  took  his  hands  and  moved  hers  up  along  his  arms,  gripping 
him. 

'What  are  you  crying  for,  Ma,  and  I  home  now?' 

'Thanks  be  to  You,  God,'  Judy  Sweeney  said,  'sure  You're  too 
good  to  me.' 

'You're  very  small,  Ma,  terrible  small.' 

"Tis  the  age,  alannah.' 

'And  thin,  Ma,  I  can  feel  your  bones.' 

'Never  mind  that,  alannah.  That's  a  fine  piece  of  serge  you're 
wearing  wherever  you  got  it.' 

'The  priest  at  the  place  gave  it  to  me,  Ma,  and  the  shirt  too.' 

'God  bless  him  for  that,'  Judy  Sweeney  said,  'And  now,  alannah, 


354  EDWARD    SHEEHY 

put  your  breath  to  the  fire  and  bring  that  kettle  to  the  boil  and  we'll 
have  a  cup  of  tea/ 

'Tell  me,  Ma/ 

'What  is  it,  alannahF 

'Is  it  pig's  cheek  to-day?' 

'Maybe,  now,  maybe.  But  first  go  and  blow  that  fire/ 

'Wait,  Ma.  There's  another  thing.'  He  took  the  second  half-crown 
out  of  his  pocket.  'Here,  Ma,  silver/ 

She  rubbed  the  coin  between  her  fingers. 

'We'll  have  tea,  now,  alannah,  and  for  dinner  you'll  have  your 
pig's  cheek/ 

'That's  fine,  Ma.  That's  what  I  wanted  all  the  time/ 

As  he  blew  on  the  red  turf,  there  came  the  sound  of  gunfire.  He 
stopped  blowing  to  listen  to  the  snap  of  the  rifles,  the  laconic  con- 
versation of  the  machine-guns.  What  was  it  all  about?  He  would 
like  to  go  out  and  see,  but  as  soon  as  he  moved  Judy  said: 

'Stay  where  you  are,  Padna,  boy.  The  country  is  upside  down  with 
half  the  people  out  of  their  senses.  Stay  there  and  mind  what 
you're  at!' 

After  a  while  the  air  became  heavy  and  quiet  again.  While  he 
puffed  at  the  fire  she  hobbled  across  the  mud  floor,  to  and  fro  be- 
tween the  table  and  the  dresser.  When  the  kettle  boiled  she  scalded 
the  pot  and  Padna  watched  her  dark,  bony  hands  spooning  the  tea 
out  of  the  caddie.  Everything  was  the  same,  Ma  stooping  over  the 
blue  tea-pot,  taking  the  kettle  from  the  crane,  the  throaty  gush  of 
bubbling  water.  Everything  slow  and  fine.  While  they  were  eating 
she  said: 

'They  sent  me  a  letter  and  Mairead  Grace  read  it  to  me.  But 
how  could  I  be  going  fifty  miles  and  back  in  the  train  without  a 
copper?  Tell  me,  alannah,  how  did  they  treat  you  in  that  place?' 

'Fine,  Ma,'  Padna  said,  'fine  and  decent  only  not  being  able  to  go 
abroad.  Some  of  them  used  to  get  mad  and  have  to  be  tied,  espe- 
cially the  general.  Me  and  the  general  used  to  be  weeding  together. 
For  a  high-up  man  like  him  he  was  a  sweet  hand  at  weeding/ 

'God  between  us  and  all  harm,'  Judy  Sweeney  said. 

'Yea,'  Padna  said,  'a  sweet  hand.  But  he  used  to  get  mad  at  not 
being  able  to  go  back  to  his  battles,  real  battles,  with  thousands  of 
men  dead  at  the  end/ 

'God  help  us,'  Judy  Sweeney  said,  'sure  we  all  has  our  mis- 
fortunes/ 


GOD    SEND    SUNDAY  355 

The  kitchen  darkened  suddenly  with  the  bulk  of  a  woman  stand- 
ing in  the  doorway. 

'Is  that  you,  Mairead?'  Judy  asked. 

'Can  I  come  in?'  the  woman  said,  pushing  open  the  half-door. 

'Come  on  in,  achree' 1  Judy  said.  'My  Padna  is  home.' 

A  big  bare-armed,  huge-breasted  woman  stooped  into  the  kitchen 
and  the  light  followed  her  across  the  floor.  It  was  Mairead  Grace. 

'Yerra,  Padna,'  Mairead  Grace  said,  'give  us  a  look  at  you.' 

Padna  stood  up.  Everything  about  the  woman  was  big.  She 
looked  him  up  and  down;  she  sighed;  pulled  a  chair  to  the  fire 
and  sat  down.  'He  looks  like  a  two-year-old,'  she  said.  'God  between 
us  and  all  harm,  but  you'd  never  think  from  the  look  of  him  he  was 
a  natural/ 

'There  are  worse  things  than  being  simple,  Mairead,'  Judy  said. 

'So  there  are,'  Mairead  said.  'So  there  are,  achree! 

'And  he's  a  gentle  soul,  gentle  as  a  child,'  Judy  said. 

The  chair  complained  every  time  Mairead  drew  her  breath.  She 
was  big  and  red.  Beside  her  his  Ma  looked  like  the  moon  after  the 
sun  is  up.  Padna  smiled  at  the  two  old  ones  talking  about  him  like 
that.  Fat  lot  they  knew  about  him. 

'Padna,'  Judy  Sweeney  said,  'go  on  out  to  the  yard  and  bring  me 
in  a  few  sods  of  turf.' 

When  he  had  gone  she  turned  to  Mairead  and  said: 

'Mairead,  would  you  run  over  to  Dorney's  and  get  me  half  a  pig's 
head?  They'll  give  it  to  you  at  the  back  door  and  here's  the  money. 
I'd  go  myself  only  for  being  too  much  on  his  books  already  and  he'd 
be  wanting  to  take  this  off  the  bill.  It's  for  the  boy,'  she  said,  'the  first 
thing  he  asked  for.' 

Evening  darkened  the  kitchen  and  Padna  sat  with  a  full  belly,  his 
chair  tilted  back  against  the  wall,  thinking  over  everything.  In  a  way 
it  seemed  as  if  he  had  never  been  away  at  all  with  everything  the 
same,  slow  and  fine,  only  smaller,  as  if  the  whole  place  had  shrunk 
in  the  wash  and  his  Ma  along  with  it.  If  he  went  out  now  the  people 
would  say:  Padna  is  back!  Hello  Padna!  That's  an  elegant  suit 
you're  wearing,  Padna,  you  look  as  if  you'd  been  left  a  fortune.  But 
the  old  one  didn't  want  him  to  go  out.  Every  time  he  made  for  the 
door  she  said:  'Stay  with  me,  alannah.  Sure  you're  only  just  back. 
Stay  in  to-day  and  to-morrow  you'll  see  the  place.' 

1  My  dear,  darling. 


356  EDWARD    SHEEHY 

Anyway  with  your  belly  full  you  didn't  really  want  to  do  anything 
but  listen  to  the  flies  and  think  over  things  and  watch  the  old  one 
nodding  her  head,  down,  down,  down,  until  her  chin  dropped  on 
her  chest  and  you  knew  by  the  sound  that  she  was  asleep  in 
the  chair,  the  same  basket-chair  as  always,  that  would  whisper  for  a 
long  time,  remembering  the  last  person  that  sat  in  it.  If  he  wanted 
he  could  go  now,  only  it  was  nicer  to  sit  and  watch  the  fire  going  to 
sleep.  Later  on  when  the  time  for  the  play  came  .  .  .  They  would 
say:  with  a  suit  like  that  he  should  be  far  up  among  the  important 
people.  They  might  even.  .  .  . 

At  first  he  thought  the  sound  was  in  his  head.  Then  he  knew  that 
the  sound  was  in  the  street  and  that  he'd  been  asleep.  Brum-brum- 
brum,  brum-brum-brum.  It  was  dark  and  he  couldn't  see  the 
old  one's  face  to  know  if  she  was  still  asleep.  Now  the  shrilling  fifes 
went  curling  round  the  solid  blocks  of  the  drumbeats.  Softly  he 
rose  and  softly  he  crossed  the  floor.  She  didn't  stir. 

The  air  in  the  lane  was  like  cool,  green  water.  The  street  outside 
was  boiling  with  sound.  The  music  grew  louder  as  the  band  swung 
round  the  corner  into  the  main  street  and  marched,  brum-brum- 
brum-brum,  up  the  street  with  small  kids  running  bare-legged  on 
both  sides  and  bigger  ones  with  boots  marching  in  time  with  the 
band.  Torches  over  the  heads  of  the  crowd  coming  along  behind. 
The  torches  kept  losing  odd  ribbons  of  flame  in  the  air.  A  motor- 
car, like  a  big,  black  box  with  windows,  crawled  along  very  slowly 
in  the  middle  of  the  crowd.  The  band  stopped  opposite  the  hall. 
It  looks  as  if  the  fat  fellow's  right,  Padna  thought,  and  it's  going  to  be 
a  very  important  play.  Indeed,  I'm  lucky  to  be  back  for  it  and  at 
the  very  least  they'll  let  me  sit  far  at  the  back  and  I'll  promise  not 
to  make  a  sound. 

The  band  kept  on  playing  as  several  gentlemen  got  out  of  the  car 
and  went  through  the  door  into  the  hall.  The  men  with  the  torches 
were  putting  them  out  by  stamping  them  into  the  dust.  All  the  time 
people  in  ones  and  twos  were  going  into  the  hall,  all  the  time.  But  a 
lot  were  just  standing  round  near  the  fountain,  just  standing  still. 
Policemen  kept  wandering  round  among  them  looking  into  the  peo- 
ple's faces.  There  was  a  woman  lugging  her  kids  off  by  the  ears  to 
put  them  to  bed.  Padna  kept  back  in  the  thick  of  the  crowd  hoping 
that  the  old  one  wouldn't  wake  up  and  send  someone  to  look  for 
him.  There  was  Mr.  Dorney  now,  all  dressed  up,  talking  to  the  man 


GOD    SEND   SUNDAY  357 

at  the  door,  a  man  Padna  didn't  know.  But  that  didn't  matter  be- 
cause this  was  the  village  and  everyone  knew  Padna.  The  band 
stopped  playing  and  started  moving  towards  the  hall;  one  by  one 
they  disappeared  through  the  door.  Still  the  people  around  Padna 
didn't  make  the  slightest  move  until  the  policemen  wandering 
around  began  to  say:  'Move  on  there!  Move  on!  Come  on  now,  keep 
on  the  move!'  and  prod  the  people  in  the  ribs  with  their  batons. 

Slowly,  as  if  they  didn't  like  taking  orders  from  the  policemen, 
the  people  moved  up  the  street  and  down  the  street  away  from  the 
hall.  Padna.  had  to  move  too  because  the  policemen  were  like  sheep- 
dogs worrying  the  people  all  round  him  and  he  had  to  move  with 
them.  The  policemen  touched  their  caps  to  the  priest  who  came 
down  the  street.  They  touched  their  caps  as  he  passed  and  went  on 
with  their  'Keep  moving!'  It  must  be  a  very  important  play  or  the 
priest  wouldn't  be  going.  But  all  this  talk  about  moving  on  was 
queer.  Nobody  liked  policemen  anyway.  Long  ago  there  used  to  be 
one  or  two  holding  up  the  wall  at  the  post-office  corner  sucking 
straws.  Now  they  were  all  over  the  place. 

Soon  there  were  very  few  people  around  and  those  were  far  from 
the  hall.  The  policemen  were  just  lounging  against  the  walls  and 
against  the  doctor's  railings,  their  batons  back  in  the  holders.  Sud- 
denly in  the  hall  the  people  cheered  and  clapped.  If  I  don't  go  now, 
I'll  be  late  entirely,  Padna  thought.  He  walked  quickly  towards  the 
hall.  The  policemen  swung  slowly  round  to  look  at  him  and  slowly 
away  again.  He  rapped  softly  on  the  door.  Even  before  it  opened  he 
could  hear  the  big  important  voice.  The  door  opened  a  few  inches 
and  a  face,  long  like  a  billy-goat's,  appeared  in  the  crack.  The  voice 
of  the  man  speaking  was  louder  and  Padna  could  hear  the  words: 
'the  folly  of  pinning  our  faith  in  a  pack  of  moonstruck  ideal- 
ists.' Grand  words! 

'Let  us  in,  Mister,'  Padna  whispered. 

'Are  you  a  member  of  the  organisation?'  the  face  asked. 

'I  don't  know  that,'  Padna  said,  'but  I'll  be  quiet  at  the  back. 
Honest,  Mister/ 

'You  can't  come  in  if  you're  not  a  member  of  the  organisation/ 
the  face  said.  'Them's  my  instructions.' 

'Honest,  Mister,'  Padna  said,  I'll  be  quiet  as  you  like.  I'm  Padna 
and  they  always  lets  me  sit  at  the  back.' 

'Them's  my  orders,  I  tell  you,'  the  face  said.  'Produce  your  mem- 
bership card  or  off  you  go.' 


358 


EDWARD    SHEEHY 


While  Padna  was  trying  to  think  of  something  else  to  say  the  gap 
closed  and  left  him  staring  at  the  blank  wood  of  the  door. 

'Come  on,  now.  Come  on.  None  of  that,'  a  heavy  voice  said  behind 
him.  'Off  with  you  now,'  the  policeman  said. 

Padna  felt  sick.  He  moved  off,  but  not  towards  the  lane.  He  went 
towards  the  railway  bridge,  trying  to  remember  something  he  had 
done  before,  long  ago,  one  night  they  wouldn't  let  him  into  the  hall. 
Everything  was  fine  until  now;  but  now  things  were  not  so  good. 

When  he  came  to  the  gap  in  the  hedge,  he  remembered.  He 
climbed  through  the  gap  and  on  to  the  railway  embankment.  The 
high  grass  was  wet  with  dew  as  he  worked  his  way  along  the  slope 
until  he  came  to  another  gap.  The  field  on  the  other  side  was  grey  un- 
der the  stars  so  that  you  couldn't  make  out  the  yellow  of  the 
geosadawns.1  But  across  the  field  the  window  at  the  back  of  the  hall 
shone  through  the  trees,  throwing  shadows  of  their  branches 
sprawling  across  a  lighted  square  of  grass.  Quickly  and  silently  he 
reached  the  trees  and  beyond  them  the  wall.  He  hoisted  himself  to 
the  top  of  the  wall.  There  was  no  one  about.  The  big  voice  was 
in  the  hall.  He  dropped  to  the  ground  and  moved  crouching  along 
until  he  was  under  the  second  window.  Looking  up  he  saw  the 
festoons  of  coloured  paper  spanning  the  brown  wood  of  the  ceiling. 
Level  with  his  knees  was  a  ventilator  covered  with  a  metal  grid.  He 
remembered.  He  smiled  as  he  took  out  the  grid,  pleased  at  having 
remembered.  As  he  stooped  to  lay  the  grid  on  the  ground  he  heard 
a  sound,  tic-tic-tic-tic,  like  a  clock,  the  image  of  a  clock.  The  sound 
was  in  the  hole,  near  his  head.  It  was  too  dark  to  see  into  the  hole. 
He  put  his  hand  into  the  hole  and  found  something,  a  box,  it  felt 
like.  He  took  it  out;  it  was  a  box  and  the  tic-tic-tic  was  in  it  all  right. 
He  tried  to  open  it  but  the  cover  was  stiff.  Never  mind  now,  he 
thought,  I'll  take  it  away  with  me  after. 

He  laid  the  box  on  the  ground  and  with  his  toe  in  the  hole  raised 
himself  until  his  head  and  shoulders  were  above  the  sill.  But  here 
he  found  that  he  could  only  see  the  ceiling,  the  top  half  of  Daniel 
O'Connell  and  a  piece  of  the  wall  opposite,  because  coloured  pa- 
per had  been  pasted  on  the  inside  of  the  lower  panes.  The  sill  was 
too  narrow  to  sit  on;  when  he  tried  he  fell  back  to  the  ground  with  a 
bump,  nearly  on  top  of  the  box  with  the  tic-tic  going  on  all  the 
time  as  he  lay  beside  it.  There  might  be  something  good  in  the  box, 
he  thought,  I'll  find  out  when  I  take  it  home.  Finders,  keepers!  He 


1  A  kind  of  weed. 


GOD   SEND   SUNDAY  359 

picked  up  the  box  and  moved  out  towards  the  street.  Only 
when  he  saw  the  black,  strolling  shadows  did  he  realise  that  he  had 
forgotten  all  about  the  policemen.  And  it  was  too  late  now  to  turn 
back.  And  it  was  worse  now  with  this  box  that  didn't  belong  to  him. 
No  use  in  saying:  finders,  keepers,  to  a  policeman. 

The  first  one  didn't  take  any  notice  of  him,  nor  the  second,  nor 
the  third.  He  had  nearly  reached  the  fountain  when  he  heard: 
'Come  here,  you.  What  are  you  hanging  around  for?' 

Padna  stopped  and  turned.  The  policeman  stalked  towards  him 
and  squinted  into  his  face.  Padna  shivered. 

'What  are  you  up  to?'  the  policeman  growled.  'Come  on.  Out 
with  it.' 

'Nothing,  sir.'  He  pulled  his  coat  closer  to  hide  the  box. 

'Come  on.  Come  on.  Don't  try  to  pull  that  stuff  on  me.  What's  the 
game?  I  could  run  you  in,  y'  know,  for  refusing  to  answer.' 

'I  found  it,  Mister.  Honest  I  did,'  Padna  said. 

'Found  what?' 

'The  box,'  Padna  said,  '  I  found  it  in  the  hole  under  the  window. 
Sure  you  can  keep  a  thing  if  you  find  it.' 

'What  the  hell  are  you  talking  about?'  the  policeman  said. 
'Where's  this  box?' 

'Here,  Mister,'  Padna  said,  producing  the  box  from  inside  his 
coat.  'Only  I  found  it.  Honest/ 

The  policeman  turned  the  box  over  in  his  hands. 

'Where  did  you  find  it?  Come  on,  out  with  it.' 

'At  the  back  of  the  hall,  Mister.  First  I  heard  the  tick  and  then 
I  found  it. 

'What  tick?  What  are  you  talking  about?' 

'Listen,  Mister.' 

The  policeman  held  the  box  to  his  ear. 

'Cripes,'  he  said,  flinging  it  away  from  him,  'a  bloody  mine.' 

The  box  landed  with  a  clatter  on  the  wet  flagstone  under  the 
pump.  There's  no  reason  in  that  kind  of  thing,  Padna  thought,  if  he 
didn't  want  it  he  could  have  given  it  back  to  me. 

'Can  I  have  it  back,  so,  Mister?'  he  asked,  looking  to  where  the  box 
lay  on  its  edge  on  the  flagstone,  leaning  against  the  wall  of  the 
fountain.  Under  his  eyes  the  box  disappeared  in  a  wild  explosion 
of  flame  and  smoke.  The  fountain  shook  and  split.  Stones  began  to 
fall  out  of  the  air.  In  Padna's  head  a  rush  of  sparks  was  quenched  in 
sudden  blackness. 


360  EDWARD    SHEEHY 

Far  away,  on  the  other  side  of  a  pain  in  his  head,  men  were  talk- 
ing. He  couldn't  make  out  what  they  were  saying.  He  was  lying  on 
the  ground  and  someone  was  holding  his  head.  There  was  a  bang, 
and  .  .  .  Padna  fell  .  .  .  maybe  he  was  a  real  patriot.  What  were 
the  people  saying? 

The  policeman  was  saying: 

'He  stated  that  he  found  the  object  behind  the  village  hall,  sir.' 

'He  didn't  seem  to  be  aware  of  the  lethal  nature  of  the  object,  sir. 
The  locals  say  he's  a  natural,  sir.' 

'A  what,  Sergeant?'  a  heavy  voice  said  gruffly. 

'A  natural,  sir,  that  is  to  say  a  foolish  person,  sir.' 

'A  foolish  person,'  the  heavy  voice  burst  out.  'Good  God,  Sergeant, 
the  man  saved  all  our  lives.  Do  you  agree  with  whatever  degraded 
section  of  local  opinion  considers  that  to  be  the  act  of  a  foolish  per- 
son? The  man  is  a  hero,  Sergeant.  And  I'll  see  to  it  that  his  action 
receives  proper  recognition.'  The  heavy  voice  came  nearer,  saying, 
gently  now,  'How  is  he,  Doctor?' 

'He's  coming  to,'  a  voice  said  behind  Padna's  ear. 

Padna  raised  himself  to  one  elbow  and  found  himself  in  a  forest 
of  dark,  trousered  legs.  A  big  man,  hatless,  was  bending  a 
smooth,  heavy-jowled  face  down  towards  him.  Out  of  his  mouth  the 
same  heavy  voice  was  saying: 

'Let  me  thank  you,  sir.  I'm  John  J.  Connaughton.  I  hope  you're 
better,  sir.  What's  your  opinion,  Doctor?' 

'Just  a  contusion,  I  think,'  the  voice  behind  said,  'but  of  course,  I 
can't  be  absolutely  sure.  Superficially,  it's  slight.' 

'I'm  glad  of  that,  Doctor,'  John  J.  Connaughton  said.  T  say,  Ser- 
geant, couldn't  we  manage  to  let  him  have  some  air?' 

Then  the  policeman  started  saying:  'Move  back,  there.  Move  back,' 
and  the  legs  kept  shuffling  back  and  back  from  Padna. 

With  hands  under  his  armpits,  two  of  the  policemen  helped 
Padna  to  his  feet  in  the  centre  of  the  crowd  and  they  all  looking,  all 
the  people  with  their  eyes  on  Padna.  There  was  Father  Gogarty 
talking  to  John  J.  Connaughton,  waving  their  arms  about  like  peo- 
ple in  a  play.  Maybe  suddenly  the  priest  would  turn  into  the 
yeoman  captain  with  fiery  glare.  That  would  be  a  good  thing  be- 
cause then  Padna  would  be  able  to  tell  what  came  next. 

Then  John  J.  Connaughton  stepped  forward  and  said: 

'We'll  resume  the  meeting.'  He  said  it  to  all  the  people  and  then 
he   stepped   forward   and   took  Padna  by   the  hand.   The   people 


GOD   SEND   SUNDAY  361 

cheered.  The  cheering  got  mixed  up  with  the  noise  in  Padna's  head, 
like  the  purring  of  a  cat.  Mr.  Connaughton  took  Padna's  arm  and 
together  they  walked  slowly  between  lines  of  people  towards  the 
door  of  the  hall.  All  the  people  were  looking  at  Padna,  even  while 
they  stepped  back  from  the  policemen  saying:  'Make  way  there. 
Make  way,  will  ye?'  they  kept  on  looking  and  smiling  and  talking  like 
a  flock  of  starlings. 

Behind  them  walked  Father  Gogarty  and  the  doctor,  their  heads 
bowed  close  to  one  another's,  the  priest  saying:  \  .  .  the  man  is  stub- 
born as  a  mule.  He  won't  lead  nor  drive.  If  we'd  known  sooner 
...  As  for  that  idiot  .  .  .  I'll  see  to  it  that  he  shaves  off  that  beard. 
It's  .  .  .  it's  almost  blasphemous.' 

Now  they  were  in  the  hall,  marching  up  between  the  empty  seats, 
up,  up  to  the  top  where  Padna  had  never  been.  He  could  hear  the 
crowding  feet  of  the  people  pouring  into  the  hall  behind. 

On  the  platform  was  a  long  table  with  chairs  along  the  far  side. 
And  here  he  was,  sitting  on  the  platform  itself  with  the  priest  and  Mr. 
Dorney  and  the  doctor  and  Samuel  Horton  of  the  mills,  as  well  as 
Mr.  Connaughton,  keeping  still  until  all  the  people  were  in  their 
seats.  And  the  people  were  all  looking  at  Padna  as  if  they  wanted 
him  to  do  something.  But  what  could  he  do  until  the  red  coats  came 
in  with  guns  saying:  We  hold  this  house  for  our  lord  the  king,  amen, 
say  I,  may  all  traitors  swing?  Only  where  was  Anne  Devlin1  who 
would  go  down  on  her  bended  knees  to  plead  for  mercy  with  the 
cruel  Yeos?  2  And  the  bang  was  already  when  he  fell  by  the  pump 
and  where  he  got  the  pain  in  his  head  .  .  .  and  got  the  lovely  suit, 
that  hadn't  a  single  hole  anywhere,  not  even  at  the  elbows,  all  cov- 
ered with  dust  and  dried  horse-dung.  It  was  all  very  mixed  being  a 
patriot  with  all  those  faces  looking  up  at  him  like  a  lot  of  yobs  with- 
out a  smile  anywhere.  It  might  have  been  better  almost  if  he  stayed 
as  he  was  instead  of  wanting  to  be  an  important  person. 

Father  Gogarty  was  on  his  feet,  clearing  his  throat  with  little 
coughs  through  a  hole  in  his  fist  and  beginning  to  talk  to  the  peo- 
ple: 'I'm  ashamed  of  ye,'  he  was  saying  in  a  voice  that  turned  the 
faces  like  an  east  wind,  I'm  ashamed  of  Coolnamanac.  A  dastardly 
outrage  has  been  perpetrated  that  should  be  a  lesson  to  ye,  that 
should  teach  ye  once  and  for  all  that  the  only  way  to  save  this  coun- 

1  Robert  Emmet's  heroic  housekeeper,  whom  even  torture  could  not  force  to  inform  against 
him. 

2  Short  for  the  Yeomanry,  'a  British  volunteer  cavalry  force  first  embodied  in  1794' 
(N.E.D.),  notorious  for  their  brutality  in  Ireland. 


362  EDWARD    SHEEHY 

try  from  Red  and  Godless  anarchy  is  to  place  her  destiny  in  the 
hands  of  men  like  Mr.  John  J.  Connaughton  here.  'Twill  teach  ye 
not  to  be  misled  from  yeer  bounden  duty  by  the  ravings  of  lunatics 
and  fly-by-nights.  'Twill  teach  ye  that  the  only  way  to  set  our  house 
in  order  after  the  madness  and  folly  of  a  fratricidal  civil  war,  is  to 
put  men  of  sound  business  instincts  at  the  head  of  affairs.  If  I  ask  a 
man:  "Where  were  you  in  nineteen-sixteen?"  and  if  he  says  to  me: 
"I  was  minding  my  business,  Father,"  he's  my  man.  And  he's  yeer 
man  too.  Remember  that.  I'll  say  no  more  now  except  to  tell  the 
candidate  that  every  decent  man  in  the  community  regrets  the  inci- 
dent and  to  thank  God  for  making  a  simple  man  His  instrument  to 
avert  what  might  have  been  one  of  the  gravest  tragedies  and  a  last- 
ing dishonour  to  the  name  of  Coolnamanac.  And  now,  if  he  has  re- 
covered sufficiently  from  such  a  harrowing  experience,  I'll  ask  Mr. 
Connaughton  to  resume  his  interrupted  address.  Mr.  John  J. 
Connaughton.' 

Father  Gogarty  sat  down,  slowly  lowering  himself  into  his  chair 
while  the  people  clapped,  gently,  with  the  decorum  of  Tenebrae. 

That,  Padna  thought,  was  a  grand  speech,  with  grand  words,  but 
no  word  of  me,  not  a  single  word.  And  nothing  happening.  Wait 
though!  John  J.  Connaughton  was  getting  up,  his  waistcoat  creak- 
ing as  he  straightened  and  swelled  his  chest  through  a  long  pause 
during  which  his  eyes  moved  over  the  people  like  a  shepherd  count- 
ing- 

'People  of  Coolnamanac,'  he  said,  'before  I  continue  my  speech, 
I  have  a  duty  to  perform,  and  that  is,  to  pay  tribute  to  the  heroic 
patriotism  of  a  fellow-citizen  of  yours  .  .  .  Padna  Sweeney.' 

At  the  back  of  the  hall  the  people  cheered,  their  faces  back  there 
a  murky  red  in  the  dimmer  lamplight. 

'Padna!'  the  men  shouted.  'Hurra  for  Padna!  Hurra!' 

At  last,  Padna  thought,  it  is  all  coming  out,  at  last.  Please  God  he'll 
say  more,  only  plainer,  just  to  show  them  for  sure. 

'And  though,'  Mr.  Connaughton  was  saying,  'opinion,  I  regret  to 
say,  doesn't  seem  to  be  unanimous  in  appreciating  his  courage 
and  daring,  to  me,  his  action  is  heartening  proof  that  the  spirit  of 
patriotism,  which,  in  days  of  yore,  animated  men  like  Michael 
O'Dwyer,  still  lives  in  the  hearts  of  Wicklowmen.  Padna  Sweeney  is 
a  patriot  .  .  .  who  will  be  remembered  .  .  .' 

A  burst  of  cheering  from  the  back  carried  his  words  away. 
In  front  they  only  smiled.  They  were  jealous;  that  was  it,  jealous. 


GOD    SEND    SUNDAY  363 

\  .  .  by  risking  his  life  in  an  attempt  to  preserve  the  liberty  of  dem- 
ocratic institutions  .  .  .' 

Father  Gogarty  was  pulling  Mr.  Connaughton  by  the  sleeve.  Mr. 
Connaughton,  bending  down,  was  using  his  cupped  palm  as  a  fun- 
nel to  catch  the  quick  words  about  an  undesirable  element  having 
gained  admittance  when  the  meeting  was  resumed. 

From  the  tumult  at  the  back,  compounded  of  stamping  feet,  clap- 
ping hands,  cheers,  laughter  and  cat-calls,  a  voice  shot  up: 

'Speech,  Padna!  Speech!' 

A  dozen  voices  took  up  the  cry: 

'Speech,  Padna!  Speech!  Speech!  Padna,  speech!' 

It  was  all  coming  out  now.  At  last  he  was  standing  up  to  speak  to 
the  people.  He  mustn't  smile,  though;  the  patriot  doesn't  smile.  Yea, 
he  remembered  now.  He  raised  his  clenched  right  hand  above  his 
head  and  shouted  to  the  ceiling: 

'Up  the  republic!  Death  to  the  Saxon  foe!' 

And  at  that  the  people  at  the  back  cheered  and  clapped  fit  to  wake 
the  dead.  The  people  in  the  front  seats  only  smiled.  Jealous,  they 
were,  jealous. 

Father  Gogarty  jumped  to  his  feet.  His  hands  fluttered  over  the 
people.  The  cheering  wavered  and  stopped. 

'There  are  men  here  who  have  no  right  here,'  he  said,  'men  who 
seem  to  have  no  sense  of  the  dignity  of  the  proceedings.  I'm  asking 
them  to  leave  this  hall  at  once.' 

Someone  opened  the  door.  The  policemen  started  to  move  to- 
wards the  back  of  the  hall.  The  crowd  at  the  back  started  to  move 
with  a  stamping  and  a  shuffling  of  heavy  feet. 

Outside  the  door  they  stopped  and  shouted  back  into  the  hall: 
'Come  on,  Padna.  Come  on  out,  Padna.' 

Padna  looked  around  him  at  the  faces.  They  were  all  very  quiet,  as 
if  the  fun  was  over.  He  looked  at  Father  Gogarty  and  the  priest 
nodded  and  looked  towards  the  door.  He  looked  at  John  J. 
Connaughton,  but  Mr.  Connaughton  was  looking  at  the  row  of 
buttons  along  the  bulge  of  his  waistcoat.  They  were  waiting  for  him 
to  go;  it  must  be  the  right  thing  to  do.  He  smiled  at  the  men  round 
the  table. 

'See  you  in  blighty,'  he  said  .  .  .  and  went  down  the  steps  and 
straight  for  the  door.  The  faces  of  the  people  swung  round  with  him 
as  he  walked. 

The  men  carried  him  on  their  shoulders  and  cheered  as  they  car- 


364  EDWARD    SHEEHY 

ried  him  up  the  street.  They  were  decent  fellows  enough,  but  rough 
and  without  any  education.  They  praised  the  grand  way  he  behaved 
at  the  meeting.  That  was  all  right;  that  was  fine.  But  soon  he 
wanted  to  go  home  and  tell  the  old  one.  You  got  tired  of  listening  to 
a  lot  of  fellows  laughing  and  talking.  The  old  one  would  be  glad.  She 
always  wanted  him  to  be  something,  like  Micky  Grace  being  a  car- 
penter .  .  .  only  being  a  patriot  was  better. 


At  last  he  got  away  from  them  and  made  for  the  lane  behind 
Dorney's.  Everything  would  be  fine  now.  There  was  a  light  in  the 
window.  He  unlatched  the  door  and  stooped  through  into  the 
kitchen.  There,  the  old  one  was  rising  slowly  out  of  her  creaking 
chair  by  the  fire.  She  turned  her  face  to  him,  saying: 

'God  forgive  you,  Padna  Sweeney,  for  tormenting  me  like  this. 
May  God  forgive  you,  that's  all  I  say.' 

She  was  mad  with  him  about  something;  but  she  wouldn't  when 
she  knew.  His  mouth  was  open  to  tell  her  as  she  went  on: 

'Didn't  I  tell  you  to  stay  at  home?  Didn't  I?  And  instead  of  that 
you  go  gallivanting  out  into  the  night  that  is  like  bedlam  with  them 
and  their  politics.' 

'Ma,  Ma,  don't  mind  that.  Let  me  tell  you  a  thing/ 

'Don't  talk  to  me.  I'm  going  to  bed.' 

'Listen  to  me,  Ma.  I'm  a  patriot,'  he  shouted.  Tm  a  patriot.' 

'Ssh,  boy.  Don't  talk  like  that,  boy.'  Judy  Sweeney  was  frightened. 

'But  I  tell  you  I  am,  Ma.  The  man  at  the  hall  said  it.  They  all 
said  it.' 

'May  God  forgive  them,'  Judy  Sweeney  said.  'May  God  forgive 
them.' 

She  didn't  believe  him.  She  actually  didn't  believe  him.  The 
whole  world  said  he  was  a  patriot  and  here  his  own  Ma  wouldn't 
let  him. 

'Be  easy,  boy,  be  easy,'  she  said  gently.  'Come  on  now,  boy,  I've  the 
bed  made  for  you.  Be  easy  or  you'll  bring  another  attack  on  your- 
self.' 

He  must  make  her  believe  him. 

'  'Tis  true,  I  tell  you,'  he  shouted.  'I'm  a  patriot,  I  tell  you.  That's 
what  I  am.' 

'Easy,  Padna  boy.  For  the  love  of  God.  Don't  look  like  that, 
alannah,  and  me  your  mother  that  bore  you.'  Judy  Sweeney  saw  that 


GOD    SEND   SUNDAY  365 

the  door  was  still  open.  The  whole  village  would  be  listening.  She 
must  close  that  door,  quick.  Already  there  were  faces  leaning  out  of 
the  dark  to  catch  the  red  of  the  lamplight. 

There  she  is,  Padna  thought,  going  out  to  tell  them  all  that  I'm 
not. 

'Stop,'  he  shouted.  'Stop!' 

She  didn't  stop.  She  didn't  even  look  at  him. 

Before  her  slow  shuffle  had  taken  her  half  way  to  the  door,  he 
srepped  up  to  her,  caught  her  up  in  his  arms  and  carried  her  across 
to  the  bed.  He  dropped  her  onto  the  bed.  Around  the  door  the  peo- 
ple whipped  in  their  breaths.  Padna  turned  to  see  the  cluster  of  red 
faces.  The  faces  sank  in  the  darkness  and  two  policemen  rose  and 
stepped  into  the  kitchen.  The  only  sound  in  the  world  was  his 
heart,  dum-dum-dum-dum,  filling  the  kitchen  with  red. 

Tor  God's  sake,  have  pity,'  his  Ma  was  saying.  'Leave  him  to 
me,  whatever  he  done.  Don't  take  him.  For  God's  sake.  It's  the  ex- 
citement.' 

'But  he  doesn't  look  safe,  Mam,'  one  of  the  policemen  was  saying. 

'Oh,  leave  him  to  me,  sir.  After  a  while  he'll  be  like  a  lamb.  It's 
the  excitement/ 

'Well,  Mam,  if  you  think  .  .  .' 

'For  the  love  of  God,  sir,'  his  Ma  was  saying,  pleading  for  mercy 
with  the  cruel  Yeos.  It  was  all  coming  out.  The  lights  were  red  like 
new  blood.  Padna  was  not  afraid.  They  just  go  right  ahead,  that's 
what  they  do.  He  was  big  and  they  could  never  hold  him.  With  a 
blow  he  could  smash  them  up,  like  that.  Easy  as  easy,  and  lovely  to 
hear  it  ring  like  a  bell  in  your  head.  They  were  both  coming  now, 
step  by  step.  Padna  jumped  and  sent  one  of  them  flying  into  the 
dresser.  Plates  and  cups  fell  crashing  on  top  of  him.  Padna  smiled. 
Lovely. 

But  the  old  one  was  complaining  as  usual,  far  away. 

Ah,  now  the  place  was  full  of  them,  swimming  about  in  the  red- 
ness with  faces  all  the  time  in  front  of  his  fists.  Only  they  started  to 
hang  on  to  him,  to  weigh  down  his  legs  and  his  shoulders  so  that 
he  couldn't  move  any  more.  He  couldn't  do  any  more.  The  red 
was  going  out  of  the  air  and  why  was  the  old  one  keening?  She 
couldn't  think  he  was  dead  when  he  didn't  even  fall.  The  old  one 
didn't  know  a  good  fight  when  she  saw  one. 

'Have  pity,  Sergeant,  for  the  love  of  God,  don't  take  him.  He's 
all  I've  got,  Sergeant.  Have  pity.' 


366  EDWARD    SHEEHY 

Tm  sorry,  Mam,'  the  Sergeant  said,  'but  he's  not  safe.  He'll  want 
a  while  under  observation.' 

At  the  door,  Padna  turned  and  said: 
'So  long,  Ma.  See  you  in  blighry.' 
But  the  old  one  didn't  even  smile. 


Part  IV 

TURN  ASIDE  AND  BROOD 


And  no  more  turn  aside  and  brood 
Upon  love's  bitter  mystery; 
For  Fergus  rules  the  brazen  cars  .  . 
W.  B.  Yeats 


LIAM     O    FLAHERTY 

Going  into  Exile1 

.Patrick  Feeney's  cabin  was  crowded  with  people.  In  the  large 
kitchen  men,  women,  and  children  lined  the  walls,  three  deep  in 
places,  sitting  on  forms,  chairs,  stools,  and  on  one  another's  knees. 
On  the  cement  floor  three  couples  were  dancing  a  jig  and  raising  a 
quantity  of  dust,  which  was,  however,  soon  sucked  up  the  chim- 
ney by  the  huge  turf  fire  that  blazed  on  the  hearth.  The  only  clear 
space  in  the  kitchen  was  the  corner  to  the  left  of  the  fireplace,  where 
Pat  Mullaney  sat  on  a  yellow  chair,  with  his  right  ankle  resting  on 
his  left  knee,  a  spotted  red  handkerchief  on  his  head  that  reeked 
with  perspiration,  and  his  red  face  contorting  as  he  played  a  tat- 
tered old  accordion.  One  door  was  shut  and  the  tins  hanging  on  it 
gleamed  in  the  firelight.  The  opposite  door  was  open  and  over  the 
heads  of  the  small  boys  that  crowded  in  it  and  outside  it,  peering  in 
at  the  dancing  couples  in  the  kitchen,  a  starry  June  sky  was  visible 
and,  beneath  the  sky,  shadowy  grey  crags  and  misty,  whitish  fields 
lay  motionless,  still  and  sombre.  There  was  a  deep,  calm  silence  out- 
side the  cabin  and  within  the  cabin,  in  spite  of  the  music  and  danc- 
ing in  the  kitchen  and  the  singing  in  the  little  room  to  the  left, 
where  Patrick  Feeney's  eldest  son  Michael  sat  on  the  bed  with  three 
other  young  men,  there  was  a  haunting  melancholy  in  the  air. 

The  people  were  dancing,  laughing  and  singing  with  a  certain 
forced  and  boisterous  gaiety  that  failed  to  hide  from  them  the  real 
cause  of  their  being  there,  dancing,  singing  and  laughing.  For  the 
dance  was  on  account  of  Patrick  Feeney's  two  children,  Mary  and 
Michael,  who  were  going  to  the  United  States  on  the  following 
morning. 

Feeney  himself,  a  black-bearded,  red-faced,  middle-aged  peasant, 
with  white  ivory  buttons  on  his  blue  frieze  shirt  and  his  hands  stuck 
in  his  leather  waist  belt,  wandered  restlessly  about  the  kitchen, 
urging  the  people  to  sing  and  dance,  while  his  mind  was  in  agony 
all  the  time,  thinking  that  on  the  following  day  he  would  lose  his  two 
eldest  children,  never  to  see  them  again  perhaps.  He  kept  talking 
to  everybody  about  amusing  things,  shouted  at  the  dancers  and  be- 
haved in  a  boisterous  and  abandoned  manner.  But  every  now  and 
then  he  had  to  leave  the  kitchen,  under  the  pretence  of  going  to 

1  From  Spring  Sowing  and  Other  Stories,  London,  1924. 

369 


370  LIAM  o'flaherty 

the  pigsty  to  look  at  a  young  pig  that  was  supposed  to  be  ill.  He 
would  stand,  however,  upright  against  his  gable  and  look  gloomily 
at  some  star  or  other,  while  his  mind  struggled  with  vague  and 
peculiar  ideas  that  wandered  about  in  it.  He  could  make  nothing  at 
all  of  his  thoughts,  but  a  lump  always  came  up  his  throat,  and  he 
shivered,  although  the  night  was  warm. 

Then  he  would  sigh  and  say  with  a  contraction  of  his  neck:  'Oh, 
it's  a  queer  world  this  and  no  doubt  about  it.  So  it  is.'  Then  he  would 
go  back  to  the  cabin  again  and  begin  to  urge  on  the  dance,  laughing, 
shouting  and  stamping  on  the  floor. 

Towards  dawn,  when  the  floor  was  crowded  with  couples,  ar- 
ranged in  fours,  stamping  on  the  floor  and  going  to  and  fro,  dancing 
the  'Walls  of  Limerick,'  Feeney  was  going  out  to  the  gable  when 
his  son  Michael  followed  him  out.  The  two  of  them  walked  side  by 
side  about  the  yard  over  the  grey  sea  pebbles  that  had  been  strewn 
there  the  previous  day.  They  walked  in  silence  and  yawned  without 
need,  pretending  to  be  taking  the  air.  But  each  of  them  was  very 
excited.  Michael  was  taller  than  his  father  and  not  so  thickly 
built,  but  the  shabby  blue  serge  suit  that  he  had  bought  for  going  to 
America  was  too  narrow  for  his  broad  shoulders  and  the  coat  was 
too  wide  around  the  waist.  He  moved  clumsily  in  it  and  his  hands 
appeared  altogether  too  bony  and  big  and  red,  and  he  didn't  know 
what  to  do  with  them.  During  his  twenty-one  years  of  life  he  had 
never  worn  anything  other  than  the  homespun  clothes  of  Inverara, 
and  the  shop-made  clothes  appeared  as  strange  to  him  and  as  un- 
comfortable as  a  dress  suit  worn  by  a  man  working  in  a  sewer.  His 
face  was  flushed  a  bright  red  and  his  blue  eyes  shone  with  excite- 
ment. Now  and  again  he  wiped  the  perspiration  from  his  forehead 
with  the  lining  of  his  grey  tweed  cap. 

At  last  Patrick  Feeney  reached  his  usual  position  at  the  gable 
end.  He  halted,  balanced  himself  on  his  heels  with  his  hands  in  his 
waist  belt,  coughed  and  said,  It's  going  to  be  a  warm  day.'  The  son 
came  up  beside  him,  folded  his  arms  and  leaned  his  right  shoulder 
against  the  gable. 

It  was  kind  of  Uncle  Ned  to  lend  the  money  for  the  dance, 
father,'  he  said.  I'd  hate  to  think  that  we'd  have  to  go  without 
something  or  other,  just  the  same  as  everybody  else  has.  I'll  send  you 
that  money  the  very  first  money  I  earn,  father  .  .  .  even  before  I 
pay  Aunt  Mary  for  my  passage  money.  I  should  have  all  that  money 


GOING   INTO   EXILE  371 

paid  off  in  four  months,  and  then  I'll  have  some  more  money  to 
send  you  by  Christmas.' 

And  Michael  felt  very  strong  and  manly  recounting  what  he 
was  going  to  do  when  he  got  to  Boston,  Massachusetts.  He  told 
himself  that  with  his  great  strength  he  would  earn  a  great  deal  of 
money.  Conscious  of  his  youth  and  his  strength  and  lusting  for  ad- 
venturous life,  for  the  moment  he  forgot  the  ache  in  his  heart  that 
the  thought  of  leaving  his  father  inspired  in  him. 

The  father  was  silent  for  some  time.  He  was  looking  at  the  sky 
with  his  lower  lip  hanging,  thinking  of  nothing.  At  last  he  sighed  as 
a  memory  struck  him.  'What  is  it?'  said  the  son.  'Don't  weaken, 
for  God's  sake.  You  will  only  make  it  hard  for  me.'  'Fooh!'  said 
the  father  suddenly  with  pretended  gruffness.  'Who  is  weakening? 
I'm  afraid  that  your  new  clothes  make  you  impudent.'  Then  he  was 
silent  for  a  moment  and  continued  in  a  low  voice:  T  was  thinking 
of  that  potato  field  you  sowed  alone  last  spring  the  time  I  had  the 
influenza.  I  never  set  eyes  on  the  man  that  could  do  it  better.  It's  a 
cruel  world  that  takes  you  away  from  the  land  that  God  made  you 
for.' 

'Oh,  what  are  you  talking  about,  father?'  said  Michael  irritably. 
'Sure  what  did  anybody  ever  get  out  of  the  land  but  poverty  and 
hard  work  and  potatoes  and  salt?' 

'Ah  yes,'  said  the  father  with  a  sigh,  'but  it's  your  own,  the 
land,  and  over  there' — he  waved  his  hand  at  the  western  sky — 
'you'll  be  giving  your  sweat  to  some  other  man's  land,  or  what's 
equal  to  it' 

'Indeed,'  muttered  Michael,  looking  at  the  ground  with  a  mel- 
ancholy expression  in  his  eyes,  'it's  poor  encouragement  you  are 
giving  me.' 

They  stood  in  silence  fully  five  minutes.  Each  hungered  to  em- 
brace the  other,  to  cry,  to  beat  the  air,  to  scream  with  excess  of  sor- 
row. But  they  stood  silent  and  sombre,  like  nature  about  them,  hug- 
ging their  woe.  Then  they  went  back  to  the  cabin.  Michael  went 
into  the  little  room  to  the  left  of  the  kitchen,  to  the  three  young  men 
who  fished  in  the  same  curragh1  with  him  and  were  his  bosom 
friends.  The  father  walked  into  the  large  bedroom  to  the  right  of 
the  kitchen. 

The  large  bedroom  was  also  crowded  with  people.  A  large  table 

1  A  light,  keelless  boat  used  in  the  West  of  Ireland. 


372  liam  o'flaherty 

was  laid  for  tea  in  the  centre  of  the  room  and  about  a  dozen  young 
men  were  sitting  at  it,  drinking  tea  and  eating  buttered  raisin  cake. 
Mrs.  Feeney  was  bustling  about  the  table,  serving  the  food  and  urg- 
ing them  to  eat.  She  was  assisted  by  her  two  younger  daughters  and 
by  another  woman,  a  relative  of  her  own.  Her  eldest  daughter 
Mary,  who  was  going  to  the  United  States  that  day,  was  sitting  on 
the  edge  of  the  bed  with  several  other  young  women.  The  bed  was  a 
large  four  poster  bed  with  a  deal  canopy  over  it,  painted  red, 
and  the  young  women  were  huddled  together  on  it.  So  that  there 
must  have  been  about  a  dozen  of  them  there.  They  were  Mary 
Feeney's  particular  friends,  and  they  stayed  with  her  in  that  uncom- 
fortable position  just  to  show  how  much  they  liked  her.  It  was  a 
custom. 

Mary  herself  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  bed  with  her  legs  dangling. 
She  was  a  pretty,  dark-haired  girl  of  nineteen,  with  dimpled,  plump, 
red  cheeks  and  ruminative  brown  eyes  that  seemed  to  cause  little 
wrinkles  to  come  and  go  in  her  little  low  forehead.  Her  nose  was 
soft  and  small  and  rounded.  Her  mouth  was  small  and  the  lips  were 
red  and  open.  Beneath  her  white  blouse  that  was  frilled  at  the  neck 
and  her  navy  blue  skirt  that  outlined  her  limbs  as  she  sat  on  the  edge 
of  the  bed,  her  body  was  plump,  soft,  well-moulded  and  in  some 
manner  exuded  a  feeling  of  freshness  and  innocence.  So  that  she 
seemed  to  have  been  born  to  be  fondled  and  admired  in  luxurious 
surroundings  instead  of  having  been  born  a  peasant's  daughter,  who 
had  to  go  to  the  United  States  that  day  to  work  as  a  servant  or  may- 
be in  a  factory. 

And  as  she  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  bed  crushing  her  little  handker- 
chief between  her  palms,  she  kept  thinking  feverishly  of  the  United 
States,  at  one  moment  with  fear  and  loathing,  at  the  next  with  de- 
sire and  longing.  Unlike  her  brother  she  did  not  think  of  the 
work  she  was  going  to  do  or  the  money  that  she  was  going  to  earn. 
Other  things  troubled  her,  things  of  which  she  was  half  ashamed, 
half  afraid,  thoughts  of  love  and  of  foreign  men  and  of  clothes  and 
of  houses  where  there  were  more  than  three  rooms  and  where  peo- 
ple ate  meat  every  day.  She  was  fond  of  life,  and  several  young  men 
among  the  local  gentry  had  admired  her  in  Inverara.  But  .  .  . 

She  happened  to  look  up  and  she  caught  her  father's  eyes  as  he 
stood  silently  by  the  window  with  his  hands  stuck  in  his  waist  belt. 
His  eyes  rested  on  hers  for  a  moment  and  then  he  dropped  them 
without  smiling,  and  with  his  lips  compressed  he  walked  down  into 


GOING    INTO    EXILE  373 

the  kitchen.  She  shuddered  slightly.  She  was  a  little  afraid  of  her 
father,  although  she  knew  that  he  loved  her  very  much  and  he  was 
very  kind  to  her.  But  the  winter  before  he  had  whipped  her  with  a 
dried  willow  rod,  when  he  caught  her  one  evening  behind  Tim 
Hernon's  cabin  after  nightfall,  with  Tim  Hernon's  son  Bartly's  arms 
around  her  waist  and  he  kissing  her.  Ever  since,  she  always  shivered 
slightly  when  her  father  touched  her  or  spoke  to  her. 

'Oho!'  said  an  old  peasant  who  sat  at  the  table  with  a  saucer  full 
of  tea  in  his  hand  and  his  grey  flannel  shirt  open  at  his  thin,  hairy, 
wrinkled  neck.  'Oho!  indeed,  but  it's  a  disgrace  to  the  island  of  In- 
verara  to  let  such  a  beautiful  woman  as  your  daughter  go  away,  Mrs. 
Feeney.  If  I  were  a  young  man,  I'd  be  flayed  alive  if  I'd  let  her  go.' 

There  was  a  laugh  and  some  of  the  women  on  the  bed  said:  'Bad 
cess  to  you,  Patsy  Coyne,  if  you  haven't  too  much  impudence,  it's  a 
caution.'  But  the  laugh  soon  died.  The  young  men  sitting  at  the 
table  felt  embarrassed  and  kept  looking  at  one  another  sheepishly, 
as  if  each  tried  to  find  out  if  the  others  were  in  love  with  Mary 
Feeney. 

'Oh,  well,  God  is  good,'  said  Mrs.  Feeney,  as  she  wiped  her  lips 
with  the  tip  of  her  bright,  clean,  check  apron.  'What  will  be  must 
be,  and  sure  there  is  hope  from  the  sea,  but  there  is  no  hope  from 
the  grave.  It  is  sad  and  the  poor  have  to  suffer,  but  .  .  .'  Mrs.  Feeney 
stopped  suddenly,  aware  that  all  these  platitudes  meant  nothing 
whatsoever.  Like  her  husband  she  was  unable  to  think  intelli- 
gently about  her  two  children  going  away.  Whenever  the  reality  of 
their  going  away,  maybe  for  ever,  three  thousand  miles  into  a  vast 
unknown  world,  came  before  her  mind,  it  seemed  that  a  thin  bar  of 
some  hard  metal  thrust  itself  forward  from  her  brain  and  rested  be- 
hind the  wall  of  her  forehead.  So  that  almost  immediately  she  be- 
came stupidly  conscious  of  the  pain  caused  by  the  imaginary  bar  of 
metal  and  she  forgot  the  dread  prospect  of  her  children  going  away. 
But  her  mind  grappled  with  the  things  about  her  busily  and  effi- 
ciently, with  the  preparation  of  food,  with  the  entertaining  of  her 
guests,  with  the  numerous  little  things  that  have  to  be  done  in  a 
house  where  there  is  a  party  and  which  only  a  woman  can  do 
properly.  These  little  things,  in  a  manner,  saved  her,  for  the  moment 
at  least,  from  bursting  into  tears  whenever  she  looked  at  her  daugh- 
ter and  whenever  she  thought  of  her  son,  whom  she  loved  most  of  all 
her  children,  perhaps  because  she  nearly  died  giving  birth  to  him 
and  he  had  been  very  delicate  until  he  was  twelve  years  old.  So 


374  LIAM  o'flaherty 

she  laughed  down  in  her  breast  a  funny  laugh  she  had  that  made 
her  heave  where  her  check  apron  rose  out  from  the  waist  band  in  a 
deep  curve.  'A  person  begins  to  talk,'  she  said  with  a  shrug  of  her 
shoulders  sideways,  'and  then  a  person  says  foolish  things/ 

'That's  true,'  said  the  old  peasant,  noisily  pouring  more  tea  from 
his  cup  to  his  saucer. 

But  Mary  knew  by  her  mother  laughing  that  way  that  she  was 
very  near  being  hysterical.  She  always  laughed  that  way  before  she 
had  one  of  her  fits  of  hysterics.  And  Mary's  heart  stopped  beating 
suddenly  and  then  began  again  at  an  awful  rate  as  her  eyes  became 
acutely  conscious  of  her  mother's  body,  the  rotund,  short  body 
with  the  wonderful  mass  of  fair  hair  growing  grey  at  the  temples 
and  the  fair  face  with  the  soft  liquid  brown  eyes,  that  grew  hard  and 
piercing  for  a  moment  as  they  looked  at  a  thing  and  then  grew  soft 
and  liquid  again,  and  the  thin-lipped  small  mouth  with  the  beauti- 
ful white  teeth  and  the  deep  perpendicular  grooves  in  the  upper  lip 
and  the  tremor  that  always  came  in  the  corner  of  the  mouth,  with 
love,  when  she  looked  at  her  children.  Mary  became  acutely 
conscious  of  all  these  little  points,  as  well  as  of  the  little  black  spot 
that  was  on  her  left  breast  below  the  nipple  and  the  swelling  that 
came  now  and  again  in  her  legs  and  caused  her  to  have  hysterics 
and  would  one  day  cause  her  death.  And  she  was  stricken  with  horror 
at  the  thought  of  leaving  her  mother  and  at  the  selfishness  of 
her  thoughts.  She  had  never  been  prone  to  thinking  of  anything  im- 
portant but  now,  somehow  for  a  moment,  she  had  a  glimpse  of  her 
mother's  life  that  made  her  shiver  and  hate  herself  as  a  cruel, 
heartless,  lazy,  selfish  wretch.  Her  mother's  life  loomed  up  before 
her  eyes,  a  life  of  continual  misery  and  suffering,  hard  work,  birth 
pangs,  sickness  and  again  hard  work  and  hunger  and  anxiety. 
It  loomed  up  and  then  it  fled  again,  a  little  mist  came  before  her 
eyes  and  she  jumped  down  from  the  bed,  with  the  jaunty  twirl  of  her 
head  that  was  her  habit  when  she  set  her  body  in  motion. 

'Sit  down  for  a  while,  mother,'  she  whispered,  toying  with  one  of 
the  black  ivory  buttons  on  her  mother's  brown  bodice.  I'll  look 
after  the  table.'  'No,  no,'  murmured  the  mother  with  a  shake  of 
her  whole  body,  I'm  not  a  bit  tired.  Sit  down,  my  treasure.  You 
have  a  long  way  to  travel  to-day.' 

And  Mary  sighed  and  went  back  to  the  bed  again. 

At  last  somebody  said:  It's  broad  daylight.'  And  immediately 
everybody  looked  out  and  said:  "So  it  is,  and  may  God  be  praised.' 


GOING   INTO   EXILE  375 

The  change  from  the  starry  night  to  the  grey,  sharp  dawn  was  hard  to 
notice  until  it  had  arrived.  People  looked  out  and  saw  the  morning 
light  sneaking  over  the  crags  silently,  along  the  ground,  pushing  the 
mist  banks  upwards.  The  stars  were  growing  dim.  A  long  way  off 
invisible  sparrows  were  chirping  in  their  ivied  perch  in  some  distant 
hill  or  other.  Another  day  had  arrived  and  even  as  the  people  looked 
at  it,  yawned  and  began  to  search  for  their  hats,  caps  and  shawls 
preparing  to  go  home,  the  day  grew  and  spread  its  light  and  made 
things  move  and  give  voice.  Cocks  crew,  blackbirds  carolled,  a  dog 
let  loose  from  a  cabin  by  an  early  riser  chased  madly  after  an  imag- 
inary robber,  barking  as  if  his  tail  were  on  fire.  The  people  said 
goodbye  and  began  to  stream  forth  from  Feeney's  cabin.  They  were 
going  to  their  homes  to  see  to  the  morning's  work  before  going  to 
Kilmurrage  to  see  the  emigrants  off  on  the  steamer  to  the  mainland. 
Soon  the  cabin  was  empty  except  for  the  family. 

All  the  family  gathered  into  the  kitchen  and  stood  about  for  some 
minutes  talking  sleepily  of  the  dance  and  of  the  people  who  had 
been  present.  Mrs.  Feeney  tried  to  persuade  everybody  to  go  to 
bed,  but  everybody  refused.  It  was  four  o'clock  and  Michael  and 
Mary  would  have  to  set  out  for  Kilmurrage  at  nine.  So  tea 
was  made  and  they  all  sat  about  for  an  hour  drinking  it  and  eating 
raisin  cake  and  talking.  They  only  talked  of  the  dance  and  of  the 
people  who  had  been  present. 

There  were  eight  of  them  there,  the  father  and  mother  and  six 
children.  The  youngest  child  was  Thomas,  a  thin  boy  of  twelve, 
whose  lungs  made  a  singing  sound  every  time  he  breathed.  The 
next  was  Bridget,  a  girl  of  fourteen,  with  dancing  eyes  and  a  habit 
of  shaking  her  short  golden  curls  every  now  and  then  for  no  appar- 
ent reason.  Then  there  were  the  twins,  Julia  and  Margaret,  quiet, 
rather  stupid,  flat-faced  girls  of  sixteen.  Both  their  upper  front 
teeth  protruded  slightly  and  they  were  both  great  workers  and 
very  obedient  to  their  mother.  They  were  all  sitting  at  the  table,  hav- 
ing just  finished  a  third  large  pot  of  tea,  when  suddenly  the  mother 
hastily  gulped  down  the  remainder  of  the  tea  in  her  cup,  dropped 
the  cup  with  a  clatter  to  her  saucer  and  sobbed  once  through  her 
nose. 

'Now  mother/  said  Michael  sternly,  what's  the  good  of  this 
work?' 

'No,  you  are  right,  my  pulse,'  she  replied  quietly.  'Only  I  was 
just  thinking  how  nice  it  is  to  sit  here  surrounded  by  all  my  children, 


376  liam  o'flaherty 

all  my  little  birds  in  my  nest,  and  then  two  of  them  going  to  fly  away 
made  me  sad/  And  she  laughed,  pretending  to  treat  it  as  a  foolish 
joke. 

'Oh,  that  be  damned  for  a  story,'  said  the  father,  wiping  his 
mouth  on  his  sleeve;  'there's  work  to  be  done.  You  Julia,  go  and 
get  the  horse.  Margaret,  you  milk  the  cow  and  see  that  you  give 
enough  milk  to  the  calf  this  morning.'  And  he  ordered  everybody 
about  as  if  it  were  an  ordinary  day  of  work. 

But  Michael  and  Mary  had  nothing  to  do  and  they  sat  about  mis- 
erably conscious  that  they  had  cut  adrift  from  the  routine  of  their 
home  life.  They  no  longer  had  any  place  in  it.  In  a  few  hours  they 
would  be  homeless  wanderers.  Now  that  they  were  cut  adrift  from  it, 
the  poverty  and  sordidness  of  their  home  life  appeared  to  them  under 
the  aspect  of  comfort  and  plenty. 

So  the  morning  passed  until  breakfast  time  at  seven  o'clock.  The 
morning's  work  was  finished  and  the  family  was  gathered  together 
again.  The  meal  passed  in  a  dead  silence.  Drowsy  after  the  sleepless 
night  and  conscious  that  the  parting  would  come  in  a  few  hours, 
nobody  wanted  to  talk.  Everybody  had  an  egg  for  breakfast  in  hon- 
our of  the  occasion.  Mrs.  Feeney,  after  her  usual  habit,  tried  to  give 
her  egg  first  to  Michael,  then  to  Mary,  and  as  each  refused  it,  she 
ate  a  little  herself  and  gave  the  remainder  to  little  Thomas  who 
had  the  singing  in  his  chest.  Then  the  breakfast  was  cleared  away. 
The  father  went  to  put  the  creels  on  the  mare  so  as  to  take  the  lug- 
gage into  Kilmurrage.  Michael  and  Mary  got  the  luggage  ready  and 
began  to  get  dressed.  The  mother  and  the  other  children  tidied  up 
the  house.  People  from  the  village  began  to  come  into  the  kitchen, 
as  was  customary,  in  order  to  accompany  the  emigrants  from  their 
home  to  Kilmurrage. 

At  last  everything  was  ready.  Mrs.  Feeney  had  exhausted  all  ex- 
cuses for  moving  about,  engaged  on  trivial  tasks.  She  had  to  go  into 
the  big  bedroom  where  Mary  was  putting  on  her  new  hat.  The 
mother  sat  on  a  chair  by  the  window,  her  face  contorting  on  account 
of  the  flood  of  tears  she  was  keeping  back.  Michael  moved  about  the 
room  uneasily,  his  two  hands  knotting  a  big  red  handkerchief  be- 
hind his  back.  Mary  twisted  about  in  front  of  the  mirror  that 
hung  over  the  black  wooden  mantelpiece.  She  was  spending  a  long 
time  with  the  hat.  It  was  the  first  one  she  had  ever  worn,  but  it  fitted 
her  beautifully,  and  it  was  in  excellent  taste.  It  was  given  to  her  by 
the  schoolmistress,  who  was  very  fond  of  her,  and  she  herself  had 


GOING   INTO   EXILE 


377 


taken  it  in  a  little.  She  had  an  instinct  for  beauty  in  dress  and  de- 
portment. 

But  the  mother,  looking  at  how  well  her  daughter  wore  the 
cheap  navy  blue  costume  and  the  white  frilled  blouse,  and  the  little 
round  black  hat  with  a  fat,  fluffy,  glossy  curl  covering  each  ear,  and 
the  black  silk  stockings  with  blue  clocks  in  them,  and  the  little  black 
shoes  that  had  laces  of  three  colours  in  them,  got  suddenly  enraged 
with  .  .  .  She  didn't  know  with  what  she  got  enraged.  But  for  the 
moment  she  hated  her  daughter's  beauty,  and  she  remembered  all 
the  anguish  of  giving  birth  to  her  and  nursing  her  and  toiling  for 
her,  for  no  other  purpose  than  to  lose  her  now  and  let  her  go 
away,  maybe  to  be  ravished  wantonly  because  of  her  beauty  and  her 
love  of  gaiety.  A  cloud  of  mad  jealousy  and  hatred  against  this 
impersonal  beauty  that  she  saw  in  her  daughter  almost  suffocated 
the  mother,  and  she  stretched  out  her  hands  in  front  of  her  uncon- 
sciously and  then  just  as  suddenly  her  anger  vanished  like  a  puff  of 
smoke,  and  she  burst  into  wild  tears,  wailing:  'My  children,  oh,  my 
children,  far  over  the  sea  you  will  be  carried  from  me,  your 
mother.'  And  she  began  to  rock  herself  and  she  threw  her  apron  over 
her  head. 

Immediately  the  cabin  was  full  of  the  sound  of  bitter  wailing.  A 
dismal  cry  rose  from  the  women  gathered  in  the  kitchen.  Tar  over 
the  sea  they  will  be  carried,'  began  woman  after  woman,  and  they  all 
rocked  themselves  and  hid  their  heads  in  their  aprons.  Michael's 
mongrel  dog  began  to  howl  on  the  hearth.  Little  Thomas  sat  down 
on  the  hearth  beside  the  dog  and,  putting  his  arms  around  him,  he 
began  to  cry,  although  he  didn't  know  exactly  why  he  was  crying, 
but  he  felt  melancholy  on  account  of  the  dog  howling  and  so  many 
people  being  about. 

In  the  bedroom  the  son  and  daughter,  on  their  knees,  clung  to 
their  mother,  who  held  their  heads  between  her  hands  and  rained 
kisses  on  both  heads  ravenously.  After  the  first  wave  of  tears  she  had 
stopped  weeping.  The  tears  still  ran  down  her  cheeks,  but  her  eyes 
gleamed  and  they  were  dry.  There  was  a  fierce  look  in  them  as  she 
searched  all  over  the  heads  of  her  two  children  with  them,  with 
her  brows  contracted,  searching  with  a  fierce  terror-stricken  ex- 
pression, as  if  by  the  intensity  of  her  stare  she  hoped  to  keep  a  living 
photograph  of  them  before  her  mind.  With  her  quivering  lips  she 
made  a  queer  sound  like  'im-m-m-m'  and  she  kept  kissing.  Her  right 
hand  clutched  at  Mary's  left  shoulder  and  with  her  left  she  fondled 


378  liam  o'flaherty 

the  back  of  Michael's  neck.  The  two  children  were  sobbing  freely. 
They  must  have  stayed  that  way  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

Then  the  father  came  into  the  room,  dressed  in  his  best  clothes. 
He  wore  a  new  frieze  waistcoat,  with  a  grey  and  black  front  and  a 
white  back.  He  held  his  soft  black  felt  hat  in  one  hand  and  in  the 
other  hand  he  had  a  bottle  of  holy  water.  He  coughed  and  said  in  a 
weak  gentle  voice  that  was  strange  to  him,  as  he  touched  his  son: 
'Come  now,  it  is  time.' 

Mary  and  Michael  got  to  their  feet.  The  father  sprinkled  them 
with  holy  water  and  they  crossed  themselves.  Then,  without  looking 
at  their  mother,  who  lay  in  the  chair  with  her  hands  clasped  on  her 
lap,  looking  at  the  ground  in  a  silent  tearless  stupor,  they  left  the 
room.  Each  hurriedly  kissed  little  Thomas,  who  was  not  going  to 
Kilmurrage,  and  then,  hand  in  hand,  they  left  the  house.  As  Michael 
was  going  out  the  door  he  picked  a  piece  of  loose  whitewash  from 
the  wall  and  put  it  in  his  pocket.  The  people  filed  out  after  them, 
down  the  yard  and  on  to  the  road,  like  a  funeral  procession.  The 
mother  was  left  in  the  house  with  little  Thomas  and  two  old  peasant 
women  from  the  village.  Nobody  spoke  in  the  cabin  for  a  long  time. 

Then  the  mother  rose  and  came  into  the  kitchen.  She  looked  at 
the  two  women,  at  her  little  son  and  at  the  hearth,  as  if  she  were  look- 
ing for  something  she  had  lost.  Then  she  threw  her  hands  into  the  air 
and  ran  out  into  the  yard. 

'Come  back/  she  screamed;  'come  back  to  me/ 

She  looked  wildly  down  the  road  with  dilated  nostrils,  her  bosom 
heaving.  But  there  was  nobody  in  sight.  Nobody  replied.  There  was 
a  crooked  stretch  of  limestone  road,  surrounded  by  grey  crags  that 
were  scorched  by  the  sun.  The  road  ended  in  a  hill  and  then 
dropped  out  of  sight.  The  hot  June  day  was  silent.  Listening  fool- 
ishly for  an  answering  cry,  the  mother  imagined  she  could  hear  the 
crags  simmering  under  the  hot  rays  of  the  sun.  It  was  something 
in  her  head  that  was  singing. 

The  two  old  women  led  her  back  into  the  kitchen.  'There  is 
nothing  that  time  will  not  cure,'  said  one.  'Yes.  Time  and  patience,' 
said  the  other. 


The  Wounded  Cormorant1 

Beneath  the  great  grey  cliff  of  Clogher  Mor  there  was  a  massive 
square  black  rock,  dotted  with  white  limpets,  sitting  in  the  sea.  The 
sea  rose  and  fell  about  it  frothing.  Rising,  the  sea  hoisted  the  sea- 
weed that  grew  along  the  rock's  rims  until  the  long  red  winding 
strands  spread  like  streams  of  blood  through  the  white  foam.  Fall- 
ing, the  tide  sucked  the  strands  down  taut  from  their  bulbous  roots. 

Silence.  It  was  noon.  The  sea  was  calm.  Rock-birds  slept  on  its 
surface,  their  beaks  resting  on  their  fat  white  breasts.  Tall  sea-gulls 
standing  on  one  leg  dozed  high  up  in  the  ledges  of  the  cliff.  On  the 
great  rock  there  was  a  flock  of  black  cormorants  resting,  bobbing 
their  long  necks  to  draw  the  food  from  their  swollen  gullets. 

Above  on  the  cliff-top  a  yellow  goat  was  looking  down  into  the 
•  sea.  She  suddenly  took  fright.  She  snorted  and  turned  towards 
the  crag  at  a  smart  run.  Turning,  her  hoof  loosed  a  flat  stone  from  the 
cliff's  edge.  The  stone  fell,  whirling,  on  to  the  rock  where  the  cor- 
morants rested.  It  fell  among  them  with  a  crash  and  arose  in  frag- 
ments. The  birds  swooped  into  the  air.  As  they  rose  a  fragment  of 
the  stone  struck  one  of  them  in  the  right  leg.  The  leg  was  broken. 
The  wounded  bird  uttered  a  shrill  scream  and  dropped  the  leg. 
As  the  bird  flew  outwards  from  the  rock  the  leg  dangled  crookedly. 

The  flock  of  cormorants  did  not  fly  far.  As  soon  as  they  passed 
the  edge  of  the  rock  they  dived  headlong  into  the  sea.  Their  long 
black  bodies,  with  outstretched  necks,  passed  rapidly  beneath 
the  surface  of  the  waves,  a  long  way,  before  they  rose  again, 
shaking  the  brine  from  their  heads.  Then  they  sat  in  the  sea, 
their  black  backs  shimmering  in  the  sunlight,  their  pale  brown 
throats  thrust  forward,  their  tiny  heads  poised  on  their  curved  long 
necks.  They  sat  watching,  like  upright  snakes,  trying  to  discover 
whether  there  were  any  enemies  near.  Seeing  nothing,  they  began  to 
cackle  and  flutter  their  feathers. 

But  the  wounded  one  rushed  about  in  the  water  flapping  its 
wings  in  agony.  The  salt  brine  stung  the  wound,  and  it  could  not 
stand  still.  After  a  few  moments  it  rose  from  the  sea  and  set  off  at  a 
terrific  rate,  flying  along  the  face  of  the  cliff,  mad  with  pain.  It 
circled  the  face  of  the  cliff  three  times,  flying  in  enormous  arcs,  as  if 


1  From  The  Tent  and  Other  Stories,  London,  1926. 

379 


380  LIAM  o'flaherty 

it  were  trying  to  flee  from  the  pain  in  its  leg.  Then  it  swooped  down 
again  towards  the  flock  and  alighted  in  the  water  beside  them. 

The  other  birds  noticed  it  and  began  to  cackle.  It  swam  close  to 
one  bird,  but  that  bird  shrieked  and  darted  away  from  it.  It  ap- 
proached another  bird,  and  that  bird  prodded  it  viciously  with  its 
beak.  Then  all  the  birds  screamed  simultaneously  and  rose  from 
the  water,  with  a  great  swish  of  their  long  wings.  The  wounded  one 
rose  with  them.  They  flew  up  to  the  rock  again  and  alighted  on  it, 
bobbing  their  necks  anxiously  and  peering  in  all  directions, 
still  slightly  terrified  by  the  stone  that  had  fallen  there.  The 
wounded  one  alighted  on  the  rocks  with  them,  tried  to  stand  up, 
and  immediately  fell  on  its  stomach.  But  it  struggled  up  again  and 
stood  on  its  unwounded  leg. 

The  other  birds,  having  assured  themselves  that  there  was  no  en- 
emy near,  began  to  look  at  the  wounded  one  suspiciously.  It  had 
its  eyes  closed,  and  it  was  wobbling  unstably  on  its  leg.  They  saw 
the  wounded  leg  hanging  crookedly  from  its  belly  and  its  wings 
trailing  slightly.  They  began  to  make  curious  screaming  noises.  One 
bird  trotted  over  to  the  wounded  one  and  pecked  at  it.  The  wounded 
bird  uttered  a  low  scream  and  fell  forward  on  its  chest.  It  spread  out 
its  wings,  turned  up  its  beak,  and  opened  it  out  wide,  like  a  young 
bird  in  a  nest  demanding  food. 

Immediately  the  whole  flock  raised  a  cackle  again  and  took  to  their 
wings.  They  flew  out  to  sea,  high  up  in  the  air.  The  wounded  bird 
struggled  up  and  also  took  flight  after  them.  But  they  were  far  ahead 
of  it,  and  it  could  not  catch  up  with  them  on  account  of  its  waning 
strength.  However,  they  soon  wheeled  inwards  towards  the  cliff, 
and  it  wheeled  in  after  them,  all  flying  low  over  the  water's  surface. 
Then  the  flock  rose  slowly,  fighting  the  air  fiercely  with  their  long 
thin  wings  in  order  to  propel  their  heavy  bodies  upwards.  They 
flew  half-way  up  the  face  of  the  cliff  and  alighted  on  a  wide  ledge 
that  was  dotted  with  little  black  pools  and  white  feathers  strewn 
about. 

The  wounded  bird  tried  to  rise  too,  but  it  had  not  gone  out  to  sea 
far  enough  in  its  swoop.  Therefore  it  had  not  gathered  sufficient 
speed  to  carry  it  up  to  the  ledge.  It  breasted  the  cliff  ten  yards  below 
the  ledge,  and  being  unable  to  rise  upwards  by  banking,  it  had 
to  wheel  outwards  again,  cackling  wildly.  It  flew  out  very  far,  de- 
scending to  the  surface  of  the  sea  until  the  tips  of  its  wings  touched 
the  water.  Then  it  wheeled  inwards  once  more,  rising  gradually, 


THE   WOUNDED   CORMORANT  381 

making  a  tremendous  effort  to  gather  enough  speed  to  take  it  to 
the  ledge  where  its  comrades  rested.  At  all  costs  it  must  reach  them 
or  perish.  Cast  out  from  the  flock,  death  was  certain.  Sea-gulls 
would  devour  it. 

When  the  other  birds  saw  it  coming  towards  them  and  heard  the 
sharp  whirring  of  its  wings  as  it  rose  strongly,  they  began  to  cackle 
fiercely,  and  came  in  a  close  line  to  the  brink  of  the  ledge,  darting 
their  beaks  forward  and  shivering.  The  approaching  bird  cackled 
also  and  came  headlong  at  them.  It  flopped  on  to  the  ledge  over 
their  backs  and  screamed,  lying  on  the  rock  helplessly  with  its  wings 
spread  out,  quite  exhausted.  But  they  had  no  mercy.  They  fell  upon 
it  fiercely,  tearing  at  its  body  with  their  beaks,  plucking  out  its  black 
feathers  and  rooting  it  about  with  their  feet.  It  struggled  madly  to 
creep  in  farther  on  the  ledge,  trying  to  get  into  a  dark  crevice  in  the 
cliff  to  hide,  but  they  dragged  it  back  again  and  pushed  it  towards 
the  brink  of  the  ledge.  One  bird  prodded  its  right  eye  with  its  beak. 
Another  gripped  the  broken  leg  firmly  in  its  beak  and  tore  at  it. 

At  last  the  wounded  bird  lay  on  its  side  and  began  to  tremble, 
offering  no  resistance  to  their  attacks.  Then  they  cackled  loudly, 
and,  dragging  it  to  the  brink  of  the  ledge,  they  hurled  it  down.  It 
fell,  fluttering  feebly  through  the  air,  slowly  descending,  turning 
round  and  round,  closing  and  opening  its  wings,  until  it  reached  the 
sea. 

Then  it  fluttered  its  wings  twice  and  lay  still.  An  advancing 
wave  dashed  it  against  the  side  of  the  black  rock  and  then  it  disap- 
peared, sucked  down  among  the  seaweed  strands. 


AUSTIN    CLARKE 

Gormlai  and  Cormac1 

xLvery  night  of  the  week  she  had  searched  among  ecclesiastical 
tracts  and  vellums,  because  she  had  suddenly  determined  to  dis- 
cover, once  and  for  all,  the  meaning  and  mystery  of  matrimony. 
Cormac  had  given  her  permission  to  use  this  quiet  room  above  the 
chapel  while  he  was  absent.  But  she  had  explored  the  book-racks  at 
first  with  a  sense  of  guilt.  Searching  among  those  moral  treatises, 
she  felt  indeed  that  she  was  craving  for  a  knowledge  forbidden  to 
women.  She  fought  the  unreasonable  fear,  for  it  was  no  sinful  curi- 
osity that  impelled  her,  but  a  need  of  mind  that  she  must  obey  what- 
ever the  cost.  Even  as  a  girl  she  had  felt  that  clear  urgency  of  mind, 
had  rebelled  secretly  at  her  convent  when  the  Abbess  reproved  her 
and  sent  word  to  the  Ri.2  She  thought  of  those  pious  virgins,  in  their 
cells  there,  following  the  example  of  Saint  Ita,  living  in  simple 
faith,  untouched  by  the  toil  of  intellect.  But  was  not  the  intellect  the 
highest  work  of  the  Creator?  Even  as  a  youngster  she  had  despised 
those  recluses,  their  ignorance,  their  docile  obedience,  and  she  had 
felt  proud  of  her  own  mind. 

She  had  worked  feverishly  for  five  nights,  dipping  into  the  pages 
of  Tertullian,  Jerome  and  others  whose  names  she  forgot  almost 
as  soon  as  she  had  read  them.  She  had  come  to  a  bewildering  world 
of  vehement  opinions,  of  strange  anger,  of  stern  ordinances.  But 
it  was  the  real  world,  despite  its  ugliness,  and  she  knew  that  she  must 
face  its  facts.  Sentences  which  she  could  scarcely  understand  con- 
fronted her,  horrible  words  that  she  knew  instinctively  referred  to 
some  terrible  evil  at  the  very  root  of  life.  Woman  was  denounced  by 
the  Early  Fathers,  arraigned  as  the  temptress,  the  bringer  of  spiritual 
evil  and  disease.  She  read  with  growing  indignation  and  horror.  But 
she  must  not  yield  to  the  emotion  of  revolt.  She  must  read  calmly, 
coldly,  submitting  all  to  her  intelligence.  The  sacrament  of  mat- 
rimony was  not  what  she  had  thought  of  it  in  her  innocence,  it  was 
not  what  the  uneducated  laity  thought  of  it.  Cormac  had  been  cor- 
rect though  she  had  doubted  his  word.  It  was  an  inferior  spiritual 
state,  a  refuge  from  concupiscence,  and  as  some  schoolmen  and  theo- 
logians held,  a  state  that  was  no  more  than  tolerable.  She  read  of 

1  From  The  Singing-Men  at  Cashel,  London,  1936,  Clarke's  imaginative  reconstruction  of  a 
chapter  from  Irish  medieval  history. 

2  King. 

382 


GORMLAI   AND   CORMAC  383 

the  widespread  reign  of  lust  in  ancient  cities,  the  multiplying  sins 
of  the  flesh.  Those  who  were  married  did  not  always  escape  from  hor- 
rible sins  that  blotched  both  body  and  soul.  The  very  intimacy  of 
the  married  state  brought  with  it  the  occasion  of  unnatural  sins, 
and  a  slow  demoralization  could  be  brought  on  by  the  uxoriousness 
of  that  state. 

The  more  she  read,  the  more  her  mind  was  bewildered.  Fornica- 
tion, adultery,  concupiscence,  uncleanliness  of  thought  and  act — the 
ominous  words  leaped  loudly  from  the  pages  as  from  a  pulpit,  but 
their  meaning  was  as  vague  to  her  as  it  was  alarming.  There  was 
some  shame  in  womanhood  and  its  periods,  some  mysterious  cor- 
ruption due  to  the  Fall  which  she  could  not  ascertain.  Still  in  igno- 
rance of  the  meaning  of  matrimony,  she  raced  from  page  to  page, 
skipping  or  turning  back,  ever  in  the  hope  of  finding  some  precise 
definition  that  would  reveal  all  to  her. 

This  night  she  read  wildly,  frantically,  for  the  time  was  short.  She 
must  know,  she  could  not  remain  any  longer  in  the  torment 
of  doubt  and  suspicion.  This  might  be  her  last  chance  of  discover- 
ing the  dread  secret  before  Cormac  returned. 

Among  the  Latin  manuscripts  on  the  desk,  she  found  some  tran- 
scriptions in  Gaelic  from  a  Life  of  Saint  Scothin,  and  seeing  that 
they  were  in  her  husband's  hand,  she  turned  to  them  curiously.  A 
passage  dealing  with  the  saint's  nightly  temptation  caught  her  atten- 
tion and  she  read  on:  'Now  two  maidens  with  pointed  breasts  used 
to  lie  with  him  every  night  that  the  battle  with  the  Devil  might  be 
the  greater  for  him.  And  it  was  proposed  to  accuse  him  on  that  ac- 
count. So  Brennain  came  to  test  him  and  Scothin  said:  "Let  you  lie 
in  my  bed  to-night."  So  when  he  reached  the  hour  of  resting  the 
girls  came  into  the  house  where  Brennain  was,  with  lapfuls  of 
glowing  embers  in  their  chasubles  and  the  fire  did  not  harm  them. 
They  spilled  the  embers  in  front  of  Brennain  and  got  into  the  bed 
with  him.  "What  is  this?"  asked  Brennain.  "This  is  what  we  do 
every  night,"  said  the  girls.  They  lay  down  with  Brennain  and  he 
could  not  find  sleep  because  of  his  burning.  "That  is  imperfect,  Fa- 
ther," said  the  girls,  "he  who  is  here  every  night  feels  nothing  at 
all.  Why  not  go,  Father,  to  the  tub  of  cold  water  if  it  be  easier  for 
you?  Tis  often  that  the  holy  Father,  even  Scothin,  pays  a  visit  to  it." 
"Well,"  said  Brennain,  "it  is  wrong  for  us  to  make  this  test  for  he  is 
better  than  we  are."  After  that  they  made  their  union  and  covenant 
and  the  saints  part  feliciter.' 


384  AUSTIN    CLARKE 

Hastily  she  put  aside  the  manuscript  with  a  little  shudder  of  dis- 
gust. She  did  not  understand  entirely  what  the  passage  meant,  but  a 
dim  suspicion  was  stirring  in  her  mind,  and  she  remembered 
Cormac's  conversation  with  her  on  the  question  of  temptation. 
Somehow  it  all  seemed  like  a  mocking  commentary  on  her  own 
marriage. 

Ill  at  ease,  she  got  up  and  wandered  along  the  bookracks  with  a 
taper.  The  stern  voices  hidden  in  those  leaves  challenged  her 
across  the  centuries,  the  authority  of  all  those  saints  and  churchmen 
warned  her.  She  felt  dispirited  and  lone  in  her  struggle.  She  knew 
even  less  than  when  she  started,  she  would  never  pierce  the  igno- 
rance that  darkened  her  mind. 

A  small  ancient  volume  bound  in  withered  neatskin  caught  her 
attention.  It  looked  mysterious  and  secretive.  She  picked  it  up  cau- 
tiously and  bore  it  back  to  the  desk  as  if  at  last  she  had  found  what 
she  wanted.  But  when  she  opened  it  she  found  to  her  disappoint- 
ment that  it  was  only  a  treatise  on  Digamy  and  other  matters.  She 
was  about  to  replace  it  on  the  rack  when  a  passage  from  St.  Gregory 
Nazianzen  held  her  eye.  It  was  a  commentary  on  a  text  from  Saint 
Paul  which  she  had  read  the  previous  night  and  she  read  rapidly, 
translating  the  ecclesiastical  Latin  into  her  own  words:  If  there  are 
two  Christs  there  may  be  two  husbands  or  two  wives.  If  there  is  but 
one  Christ,  one  Head  of  the  Church,  there  is  but  one  flesh,  a  second 
is  repelled.  But  if  He  forbids  a  second,  what  is  to  be  said  of  third 
marriages?  The  first  is  law,  the  second  is  pardon  and  indulgence,  the 
third  is  iniquity.'  On  the  margin  a  later  scribe  had  scribbled  a  phrase 
from  Athenagoras:  'Second  marriage  is  but  a  decent  adultery.'  Far- 
ther down  was  another  quotation,  this  time  from  the  blessed  Clem- 
ent of  Alexandria:  'Fornication  is  a  lapse  from  one  marriage  into 
many.'  She  pushed  aside  the  book  in  despair:  she  was  appalled  by 
the  complication  of  the  subject.  It  was  useless  to  read  of  second  or 
third  marriages  when  she  knew  nothing  about  first  marriages.  There 
must  be  some  kind  of  spiritual  deterioration,  some  evil  latent  in 
marriage  which  grew  worse  if  the  sacrament  were  repeated. 

Suddenly  she  remembered  her  stepmother.  She  had  always  felt 
that  there  was  something  strange  about  that  marriage.  Was  it  some 
instinct  even  as  a  child  which  had  caused  her  to  feel  that  her  fa- 
ther's second  marriage  was  unblessed?  Nial  had  felt  the  same,  too, 
though  he  had  only  mentioned  it  to  her  once.  The  thought  of  her 


GORMLAI   AND   CORMAC  385 

home  life  at  Ardnaree  depressed  her.  She  leaned  her  elbows  on  the 
desk,  staring  into  the  shadows. 

Was  she  right  in  pursuing  the  subject  which  was  avoided  by  all? 
Was  she  merely  yielding  to  an  impulse  of  sinful  curiosity?  Even  in 
her  dreams  she  had  been  tormented  ever  since  she  came  to  Cashel. 
Another  self  that  she  hated  and  resented  seemed  to  become  ac- 
tive when  she  was  asleep.  Only  the  other  night,  she  dreamed  that 
she  was  back  again  in  the  wood  above  Glenalua.  She  relived  that 
awful  moment  of  evil  knowledge.  She  saw  again  that  hermit,  his 
eyes  glittering  through  his  tangled  glib,1  the  rags  and  twisted  pelts 
hanging  across  his  matted  chest.  She  knew  he  was  really  the  Devil 
in  disguise  because  of  the  snake  sign. 

Overcome  at  once  by  the  vividness  of  that  horrible  image  of  evil, 
she  sprang  to  her  feet  and  walked  up  and  down,  wringing  her  hands. 
Her  mind  was  polluted,  she  would  never  forget  that  sight.  Heaven 
was  punishing  her  for  her  contumacy. 

There  were  long  wasters  at  the  sides  of  the  candles.  The  turves 
were  greyer,  and  bending  down  she  drew  them  together  with  a 
charred  stick.  She  calmed  herself  and  sat  on  the  low  stool  beside 
the  last  embers.  It  must  be  very  late,  but  she  was  afraid  to  go  to  bed 
even  though  she  was  tired.  Horrible  dreams  were  waiting  to  seize 
her  mind  when  it  was  defenceless  in  sleep. 

She  must  have  fallen  into  a  light  doze  by  the  hearth,  for  she  found 
herself  awake  again,  alert,  trembling.  Had  she  heard  the  far  sound 
of  hooves  or  dreamed  she  had  heard  them? 

She  ran  to  the  fenestrelle  and  listened. 

She  was  not  mistaken.  In  the  silence  of  the  night  below,  she  could 
hear  clearly  the  beat  of  hooves  coming  across  the  plain.  The  sounds 
were  approaching  from  the  north  and  Dysart  was  in  that  direction. 

'Cormac  is  coming  back/ 

She  must  not  delay.  She  dared  not  see  him  to-night,  she  could  not 
endure  it.  She  would  have  time  to  reach  her  room,  to  get  into  bed. 
But  she  would  have  to  pretend  to  be  asleep  when  he  came  into  the 
room.  She  hated  the  thought  of  that  petty  deception  but  she  could 
not  face  him  to-night.  She  was  in  despair — never,  never  would 
she  escape  from  this  furtive,  double  existence  into  which  she  was 
driven  by  circumstance.  She  extinguished  the  tapers,  all  except  one 
which  she  took  with  her. 


1  'A  thick  mass  of  matted  hair  hanging  over  the  eyes,  formerly  worn  by  the  Irish.'  N.E.D. 


386  AUSTIN   CLARKE 

She  closed  the  great  door,  but  when  she  had  gone  down  a  few  of 
the  steps,  she  stopped  and  listened  again  at  a  loophole.  Even  if  her 
husband  and  his  attendants  were  coming  up  the  hill-road,  she 
would  still  have  time  to  reach  her  bed.  To  her  surprise  she  could 
not  hear  a  sound,  the  silence  was  intense  again.  She  waited  for  a 
minute  on  the  stone  stairs,  but  there  was  still  no  sound.  Her  suspi- 
cion had  been  wrong.  She  had  only  heard  some  lategoers  returning 
to  their  homes.  She  was  relieved  at  the  thought  that  she  would  be 
alone  for  another  night,  even  though  she  feared  the  hours  of  sleep. 


Be  on  your  guard  for  the  Airseoir1  has  many  wiles! 

Cormac  heard  again  the  valedictory  warning  which  the  aged 
Colman  had  given  to  him  at  Dysart.  It  was  almost  midnight  for 
the  moon  was  high  in  the  south-west  and  the  trotting  of  the  horses 
had  made  him  drowsy.  But  the  holy  whisper  came  back  to  his  ear 
with  such  startling  distinctness  that  he  raised  his  head  in  surprise. 
Dimna,  the  cleric,  was  nodding  beside  him,  the  heavy  hood  drawn 
down  to  conceal  his  features.  Cormac  turned  to  watch  the  passing 
shadows  of  branch  and  night-eared  bush,  fantastic  and  unreal  in  the 
moonlight. 

Colman  had  hinted  that  in  the  next  few  weeks  the  Adversary  of 
souls  might  attempt  to  defeat  him.  Even  at  the  threshold  the  saint 
had  paused  to  repeat  his  last  warning  in  a  whisper. 

The  horses  swung  into  an  easy  pace.  Corra,  the  driver,  glanced 
over  his  shoulder,  pointing  ahead  as  they  came  from  the  shadows  of 
a  wood-edge. 

Little  more  than  a  mile  away  was  the  summit  of  Cashel,  its  peaked 
roofs  and  round  tower  against  the  moon. 

'We  are  almost  there,  Father  Dimna.'  The  other  stirred  and 
looked  up  as  Cormac  spoke. 

In  a  few  minutes  they  came  to  a  small  oratory,  half  hidden  by 
quicksets. 

T  shall  see  you  early  in  the  morning.  God  be  with  you/ 

'And  with  you,  A  Tierna!' 2 

1  Adversary,  i.e.  Satan. 

2  My  Lord. 


GORMLAI    AND   CORMAC 


387 


Both  spoke  gravely  as  if  they  realized  the  solemn  purpose  of  the 
morrow.  The  priest  paused  for  a  moment,  then  bowed  and  went 
down  the  path  among  the  trees. 

Cormac  called  to  the  driver  as  they  came  to  the  embankment. 
The  lesser  settlements  and  outhouses,  clustered  under  the  pale  lime- 
stone cliffs  of  Cashel,  were  deep  in  shadow. 

I'll  walk  up.  It  is  a  fair  night  and  I  need  exercise  after  the  day's 
journey.  The  horses  are  tired.' 

He  stopped  to  pat  their  manes.  He  did  not  add  that  Corra  himself 
looked  weary  and  that  he  wished  to  spare  him  the  additional  jour- 
ney. 

Slowly  the  Ri  paced  up  the  wide  road,  his  hands  behind  his  back. 
He  lingered  half-way  and  leaned  on  the  low  stone  wall  to  gaze  at 
the  plain  below  him.  The  fields,  the  long  pastures  were  prosper- 
ous in  the  moonlight;  the  distant  woods  were  heavy  and  still  under 
their  fruit;  all  that  land  was  at  peace. 

He  mused  beside  a  slender  rowan  growing  from  a  fissure  outside 
the  rough  wall.  Its  patterned,  fernlike  leaves  were  dark  against  the 
sky.  They  began  to  stir  faintly,  finding  for  themselves  a  freshet  in  the 
air,  but  the  thick  clusters  of  berries  remained  still. 

'Wonderful  are  the  works  of  the  Creator,'  he  thought,  as  the 
leaves,  after  that  faint  sighing,  became  still  again.  He  resumed  his 
walk  until  at  the  turn  of  the  road,  he  saw,  spread  below,  all  the  three 
plains  of  Munster. 

On  so  calm  a  night,  evil  might  well  seem  a  dream  of  the  disturbed 
senses.  All  who  trusted  in  Heaven  had  nothing  to  fear  in  this  mortal 
world.  Creation  was  lulled  by  its  own  wonder  and  loveliness,  mani- 
fest as  when  it  came  from  the  hand  and  word  of  God.  Even  the 
warning  of  his  old  master  and  soul-preceptor  seemed  a  remote  fancy. 
Cormac  went  slowly,  glancing  at  the  harvests  below,  at  the  firmament 
beyond,  his  heart  praising  the  wonder  of  field  and  sky.  But  for  the 
violence  and  greed  in  the  nature  of  man,  the  earth  might  be  as 
peaceful  as  it  is  in  the  contemplation  of  the  saints.  But  his  own 
land,  small  as  it  was,  he  would  preserve  in  peace,  in  holiness:  and 
that  resolution,  as  he  repeated  it  to  himself,  filled  him  with  exalta- 
tion and  at  the  same  time  with  calmness.  Those  days  and  nights  at 
Dysart  had  brought  certainty  to  his  mind.  Since  that  hour  when  he 
was  crossing  the  courtyard  to  his  scriptorium  and  a  voice  spoke  from 
the  air,  commanding  him  to  go  to  Dysart,  he  had  not  wavered. 


388  AUSTIN   CLARKE 

From  that  moment  his  mind  was  enlightened,  by  the  direct  grace 
of  Heaven,  and  his  purpose,  so  long  obscure  to  him,  was  at  last 
clear. 

Colman  had  known  of  his  coming,  for  he  had  heard  holy  beings 
astir  in  the  eaves  of  his  house.  He  knew,  too,  the  purpose  of  the  visit 
and  had  awaited  him,  among  his  clergy,  at  the  threshold.  It  was 
plain,  indeed,  that  Heaven  was  guiding  him  and  Cormac's  heart 
filled  once  more  with  gratitude. 

At  the  entrance-gate,  a  few  soldiers  started  up  from  a  bench, 
yawning  and  stretching.  They  looked  startled  when  they  saw  the 
tall,  majestic  figure  of  the  Ri  standing  before  them. 

But  Cormac,  with  a  smile  and  an  involuntary  blessing  to  the  fel- 
lows, passed  into  the  inner  quadrangle  under  the  shadow  of  the 
dormer-houses.       ~"\ 

Half  in  moonlight,'  half  in  dark,  he  saw  the  High  Cross,  its  inter- 
knotted  irgures--aTid  Eastern  symbols  obscure,  mysterious.  Cormac 
gazed  at  the  sacred  spot  which  the  Cross  marked,  for  there  the 
Talkend1  had  baptized  King  Aongus  and  that  event  was  the  first 
set  down  in  the  annals  of  Cashel.  As  Patric  was  administering  the 
sacrament  of  holy  water,  the  spike  of  his  heavy  crozier  pierced  the 
foot  of  the  king.  But  he  uttered  no  sound  despite  the  grievous  pain 
which  the  sharp  point  caused  him.  The  saint  expressed  his  concern 
when  he  discovered  what  had  happened  and  asked  him  why  he  had 
not  complained. 

'But  I  thought  it  was  part  of  the  ceremony,'  the  royal  neophyte  re- 
plied and  even  Patric  had  to  smile  tenderly  at  the  simplicity  of  the 
great  man. 

Cormac  meditated  for  a  few  moments  on  that  holy  spot  and  then 
passed  within  the  shadows  of  the  buildings.  Much  had  happened  at 
Cashel  since  then  and  dark  events  were  recorded  in  the  annals. 
Cruelty  and  rapine  had  disturbed  its  peace,  dim  sacrilege  and  the 
unnamed  sin.  As  he  went  into  the  shadows,  he  remembered 
those  long  years  of  wantonness  and  luxury  which  had  brought 
shame  to  Cashel  in  the  past.  The  darkness  seemed  astir  with 
memories  of  indolence  and  chambering,  the  raising  of  languid  arms 
and  of  faces  pale  with  desire,  in  secret  rooms.  He  shut  away  those 
thoughts  of  the  past  and  with  a  prayer  turned  to  the  doorway. 

'But  we  perceive  only  through  the  mind/  he  paused  on  the  door- 
step. 'All  is  entelechy.  The  cravings  of  desire,  the  sensations  of  its 


GORMLAI   AND   CORMAC  389 

attainment,  are  communicated  to  us  by  the  mind,  even  the  pleas- 
ures of  the  senses,  however  acutely  felt,  are  primarily  a  mental  ex- 
perience.' 

He  realized  that  he  was  thinking  strangely  and  dismissed  the  train 
of  thought  abruptly.  The  Evil  One  was  subtile  in  his  attacks  and 
was  inveigling  him  into  sophistry.  Experience  had  long  ago  ren- 
dered him  suspicious  of  those  debates  in  which  the  mind  argues 
with  itself  as  with  an  unseen  disputant. 

Inside  the  house,  he  made  his  way  quickly  along  a  dim  passage 
into  which  a  faint  ray  of  moonlight  penetrated.  He  went  quietly, 
knowing  that  his  household  was  asleep,  until  he  came  to  the  curtain 
of  the  great  chamber. 

He  paused  cautiously  for  his  wife  would  be  asleep  and  he  must 
not  disturb  her.  There  would  be  plenty  of  time  to-morrow  to  tell 
her  of  his  great  decision.  The  thought  of  her  virtue  and  noble  na- 
ture filled  him  with  gratitude  to  Heaven.  Gormlai  would  under- 
stand at  once  when  he  explained  his  purpose  to  her.  As  he  drew  apart 
the  curtains  a  few  inches,  he  noticed  to  his  surprise  that  there  was  a 
light  still  burning  within.  Believing  that  in  his  absentmindedness  he 
had  come  to  the  wrong  bed-division,  he  was  about  to  turn  away  in 
confusion,  when  his  eye  was  attracted  by  a  strange  glittering  in  the 
room.  Before  he  realized  what  he  was  doing,  his  eye  was  held,  his 
hand  stayed,  in  horror. 

A  young  woman  was  standing  completely  naked  in  the  middle  of 
the  room  and,  despite  the  shame  of  her  state,  she  remained  idle  in 
the  clear  candlelight.  Her  hands  were  clasped  in  mock  modesty 
over  her  face  as  though  she  would  beguile  her  watcher  into  sin.  But 
it  was  the  strange  glitter  of  her  body  that  held  the  scholar's  amazed 
attention  so  that  he  doubted  his  own  senses.  The  Tempter  had 
suddenly  fashioned  out  of  darkness  a  deceptive  image  of  desire 
and  so  cunningly  that  no  human  eye  could  withhold  itself  in  time. 
Even  the  loosened  plait  of  hair  which  might  have  served  to  con- 
ceal her  breasts,  was  gathered  carefully  over  her  left  shoulder,  so 
that  they  were  fully  exposed  and  the  tiny  dark  summit  of  each  teat 
was  erect,  eager  to  defend  its  mistress  from  the  invasive  chill 
of  night.  Her  bright  body  curved  from  the  haunch  as  if  she  were 
about  to  turn  and,  by  a  single  wily  action,  both  defeat  and  increase 
his  sight.  Look,  look,  quickly!  the  Evil  One  spoke  in  an  urgent  whis- 
per and  his  captive's  glance  sped  of  its  own  volition  towards  her  im- 
patient to  satisfy  its  lust.  Nature  itself  has  modestly  endeavoured 


390  AUSTIN   CLARKE 

ever  since  the  Fall  to  conceal  by  dark  or  fair  posy  as  best  it  might, 
that  poor  attraction  which  has  caused  many  a  man  to  lose  his  im- 
mortal soul,  but  now  the  very  night  hastened  to  defeat  mortal  eye 
and  the  gleamer  disappeared. 

The  curtain  swung  back  and  the  Ri  was  in  darkness  again.  His 
eye  could  not  have  deceived  him,  but  who  could  be  this  glittering 
being  hidden  in  Cashel,  how  long  had  she  been  there  unkown  to 
him?  Almost  in  superstitious  terror,  the  scholar  reeled  from  the 
doorpost,  his  memory  alive  with  strange  adulterous  tales  of  the 
past  hidden  in  the  annals. 

But  only  for  a  few  seconds  did  those  memories  race  through  his 
mind.  His  face  was  burning  with  shame,  his  temples  throbbing  with 
the  assault  of  passion.  The  words  of  Colman  repeated  them- 
selves loudly  in  his  mind,  those  warning  words  which  he  had 
put  from  him  in  his  spiritual  pride.  He  gripped  the  doorpost  in  his 
anguish.  He  had,  indeed,  been  outwitted:  he  had  gone  instantly  to 
the  toils  of  temptation. 

His  eyes,  despite  the  first  jimpulse  of  horror,  had  disobeyed  him; 
he  had  taken  plea^urein_sight.  He  had  dreamed  of  leading  his  peo- 
ple into  holiness,  of  reviving  the  ancient  fame  of  his  land,  yet  fallen 
into  common  sin.  Not  only  had  he  taken  pleasure  in  curiosity,  in 
seeing  a  naked  woman  for  the  first  time  in  his  life,  he  had  been  un- 
faithful in  impulse  to  the  very  marriage  vows  which  he  had  so 
lately  taken.  He  had  kept  his  own  marriage  inviolate  and  spiritual, 
yet  he  succumbed  to  the  first  temptation  which  was  presented  to 
him. 

But  as  he  struggled  against  his  anguish  in  the  darkness,  another 
thought  came  slowly,  fighting  its  way  into  his  mind  until  it  held  all 
his  attention.  He  had  not  been  mistaken  about  the  room,  he  had 
not  seen  a  strange  woman  or  an  eidolon  of  the  senses. 

'I  saw  my  own  wife/ 

Amazed  by  that  revelation,  his  mind  began  to  debate  with  itself. 
It  could  not  be  a  sin  for  him  to  look  on  his  wife's  body  even  with 
curiosity  or  desire  since  they  were  one  flesh  in  the  sight  of  Heaven. 
Certainly  it  was  to  be  avoided  by  all  who  wished  to  lead  the  higher 
life,  but  it  would  be  no  more  than  a  venial  fault.  It  was  a  practice  in 
which  young  couples  were  wont  to  indulge  in  the  first  weeks  of  mar- 
riage, though  ridiculous  and  unseemly  at  his  age.  Nevertheless,  the 
thought  brought  him  little  consolation.  He  knew  in  his  heart  that  he 
was  trying  to  deceive  himself  with  specious  excuses.  He  had  not 


GORMLAI   AND   CORMAC  391 

known  that  it  was  his  wife  at  the  time.  He  had  taken  pleasure  in  her 
nakedness  as  if  she  were  a  strange  woman.  Since  the  commission  of 
sin  is  in  the  intention,  his  guilt  remained  as  great. 

But  the  thought  that  it  was  his  own  wife  brought  back  the  temp- 
tation in  a  fiercer  degree.  He  saw  her  grave  smile,  heard  her  low 
voice,  a  little  hoarse,  yet  delicious,  as  if  there  were  honey  at  the 
roots  of  her  tongue.  Many  times  since  their  marriage  when  she  was 
asleep  late  at  night,  he  had  to  combat  his  inclination.  But  now  his 
passion  became  intenser. 

Go  back.  She  is  your  wife!  whispered  Iafer  Niger,  the  most  cun- 
ning of  the  fallen  spirits,  for  it  was  he  who  stood  beside  Cormac.  He 
hesitated  in  the  dark  and  his  grasp  on  the  doorpost  tightened:  his 
will  was  shaken  and  within  his  mind,  now  feverish  and  confused, 
the  cunning  one  went  with  prompts  and  prurience.  The  thought  of 
the  nuptial  pleasure,  unknown  to  him  and  yet  acutely  familiar  to  his 
senses,  filled  his  veins  with  soft  flows  of  desire.  He  was  clasping  his 
wife  in  his  arms,  she  was  yielding  to  him  obediently,  for  her  first 
alarms  were  over. 

'No.  No.  For  a  mortal  pleasure,  for  the  comfort  of  a  few  minutes, 
I  am  to  sacrifice  my  duties,  defeat  the  very  purposes  of  Heaven.'  In- 
stinctively he  knew  that  remorse  would  immediately  overcome  him 
if  he  yielded  to  the  passion  which  dimmed  his  intellect,  being 
thought's  enemy.  If  the  marriage  were  consummated  that  night,  it 
could  never  be  annulled.  The  fact  remained  chill  amid  his  burning 
emotions  and  brought  back  all  his  intentions.  Fortified  by  the  ad- 
vice of  Colman,  he  had  resolved  to  take  Holy  Orders  and  assume  the 
hereditary  Bishopric  of  his  land.  In  that  way  the  ecclesiastical  king- 
dom of  Cashel  would  be  restored.  Moreover,  a  secret  delegation  of 
clergy  had  urged  him  to  accept  the  supreme  position  as  Head  of  the 
Church  in  the  south.  His  marriage  had  been  a  preliminary  test,  sent 
by  Heaven  itself  and  to  his  shame  he  had  proved  unworthy.  For  the 
sake  of  mere  physical  relief,  a  few  minutes'  play,  he  was  ready  to 
destroy  the  work  of  his  life. 

'No.  No!'  urged  the  Airseoir,  'it  is  more  than  a  passing  pleasure, 
more  than  the  happiness  of  one  night.  Why  should  you  not  experi- 
ence those  pleasures,  those  tender  touchings  for  which  even  learned 
men  have  cast  away  their  books?'  Instinct  revealed  to  him  the  pleas- 
ures which  he  might  find  with  his  wife,  not  once  but  repeatedly, 
those  pleasures  which  the  married  learn  by  practice  to  prolong, 
the  feverish  abandonment  of  midnight,  the  warmth  of  mingling 


392  AUSTIN   CLARKE 

limbs  at  morning:  of  that  tenderness  and  power  would  come  their 
sturdy  offspring. 

'Possess  your  wife.  Many  Irish  Bishops  have  been  married.  The 
first  order  of  saints,  founded  by  Patric,  were  all  husbands,'  urged  the 
black  fellow. 

'Patric  chose  married  men,  because  none  chaste  enough  was  found 
among  the  single  at  that  time.  The  custom  of  clerical  marriage 
which  lingers  in  remote  dioceses  must  not  be  encouraged  now.  I  can- 
not set  a  bad  example/ 

To  aid  him,  the  Ri  called  to  mind  the  innocence,  the  virginity  of 
his  wife.  He  saw  her,  after  the  annullment  of  their  marriage,  as  an 
Abbess,  ruling  a  great  community,  and  by  her  devotion,  her  self- 
sacrifice,  helping  him  even  more  truly  in  his  designs  than  when  she 
was  his  wife.  She  had  consented  gladly,  willingly  to  the  idea  of 
spiritual  marriage.  Prayer  would  reveal  to  her  a  vocation  for  the  reli- 
gious life.  Was  it  not,  indeed,  the  example  of  her  spiritual  nature 
which  had  helped  him  to  avoid  and  despise  his  own  impulses?  In 
horror,  now,  he  thought  of  his  designs  against  her,  his  lust  for  that 
maidenhead  which  she  would  preserve  as  a  treasure  for  Heaven. 

The  depths  of  his  impious  desire  appalled  him.  He  had  been  on 
the  verge  of  what  could  not,  in  the  circumstances,  be  less  than  sacri- 
lege. But  even  as  he  shrank  back,  the  horrible  thought  began  to 
fascinate  his  numbed  mind,  and  he  saw  himself  under  cover  of  the 
darkness  committing  the  vile  deed,  robbing  Christ  of  that  treasure. 
So  had  Saint  Enda,  before  his  conversion  from  sin,  planned  to  de- 
flower a  virgin  who  had  taken  the  veil.  Fearful  of  himself  now,  he 
made  his  way  through  the  darkness  fighting  against  the  promptings 
of  the  unclean  spirit  at  his  elbow.  He  came  at  last  to  the  outer 
threshold,  but  the  cold  air  of  night  did  not  diminish  the  torment  in 
his  veins. 

'There  is  but  one  remedy!'  Grimly,  with  clenched  hand  and  knit- 
ted brows,  he  hurried  across  the  moonlit  quadrangle  to  a  small 
dark  doorway  which  was  opposite  to  him. 

Gormlai  had  not  yet  gone  to  bed  although  it  was  more  than  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  since  she  had  left  the  scriptorium.  She  felt  wake- 
ful and  her  mind  was  confused  by  the  many  pages  she  had  turned  in 
vain.  She  was  alone  for  another  night  but  there  was  little  use  in 
staying  up  any  longer.  She  undressed  slowly  and  hid  her  face  in  her 


GORMLAI   AND   CORMAC  393 

hands  for  a  moment  as  she  stepped  from  her  last  garment.  But  in 
that  moment  she  became  aware  that  she  was  being  watched.  It  was 
the  same  intuition  that  she  had  felt  upon  the  first  night  of  her  mar- 
riage and  though  she  knew  that  it  was  a  spirit  that  looked  at  her  she 
raised  her  head  quickly  and  glanced  towards  the  curtain. 

It  is  only  my  own  imagining.  I  am  disturbed  to-night.  My  mind  is 
upset.' 

She  blew  out  the  candle  and  got  into  bed,  but  as  she  lay  in  the 
darkness,  restlessly  turning  on  the  pillow,  she  found  that  she  could 
not  sleep.  She  was  fearful  of  surrendering  herself  to  that  inner  dark- 
ness, fearful  of  submitting  herself  to  its  mystery  and  meaninglessness. 
For  weeks  she  had  had  difficulty  in  composing  herself  to  rest.  She 
imagined  herself  slowly  descending  into  unknown  regions.  Far  down 
in  that  darkness  was  that  other  self  which  had  only  appeared  since 
she  came  to  Cashel — a  darker  self  that  she  scarcely  recognized,  and 
yet  could  not  deny,  a  self  troubled  by  intimations  and  a  guilt  of 
which  she  herself  was  innocent.  As  she  felt  her  consciousness  begin- 
ning to  yield,  to  disappear  into  the  first  nothingness  of  sleep,  she  re- 
sisted the  dread  spell  and  clung  desperately  to  a  passing  thought  of 
the  previous  night. 

But  despite  herself  she  must  have  succumbed  to  sleep,  for  she 
found  herself  alert  once  more  listening  intently.  She  had  heard  a 
voice  calling  her  gently,  persistently  in  the  darkness.  She  could  not 
tell  how  long  she  had  been  asleep,  but  she  knew  that  the  voice 
had  been  calling  her  for  some  time. 

Gormlai!  Gormlai! 

Even  in  that  confused  state  of  half  waking  she  knew  that  the  voice, 
though  little  more  than  a  whisper,  was  familiar  to  her.  But  her 
memory  was  dim  and  she  could  not  remember  where  she  had  heard 
it  before.  Suddenly  her  mind  was  clear  again  and  she  knew  it  was 
her  husband's  voice. 

'Cormac  is  calling  me.  He  has  been  calling  me  for  a  long  time.' 

Vaguely  she  knew  that  he  was  in  some  trouble  or  distress  and  the 
thought  afflicted  her  in  a  strange  way.  She  must  get  up  and  go  to 
him,  for  if  she  did  not  something  terrible  might  happen.  But  she 
could  not  remember  where  she  was,  the  darkness  was  so  great 
around  her.  She  thought  at  first  that  she  was  back  in  the  scriptorium 
though  she  could  not  remember  how  she  had  got  there.  She  tried  to 
stir  and  was  unable.  Yet  she  knew  instinctively  that  the  scriptorium 


394  AUSTIN   CLARKE 

was  changed,  if  indeed  she  were  in  it,  and  there  was  some  dread 
power  in  the  darkness  that  kept  her  even  from  stretching  out  her 
hand. 

Gormlai! 

It  was  the  same  voice  again  and  yet  was  different.  She  knew  that 
she  had  been  mistaken.  It  could  not  be  Cormac  who  was  calling. 
The  clear  whisper  coming  from  a  great  distance  and  yet  strangely 
near  was  yet,  nevertheless,  familiar  to  her.  But  where  had  she 
heard  that  voice  before?  It  was  so  gentle — the  guarded  echo  of  a 
whisper  and  so  sorrowful,  so  lonely  that  it  penetrated  to  the  inmost 
privacy  of  her  being.  It  was  the  voice  of  One  Who  calls  to  the  soul 
in  its  darkness,  Who  is  despised  and  neglected  by  mankind.  It  was 
that  gentle  voice  from  which  the  soul,  though  it  hide  or  delay,  can- 
not escape. 

She  knew  that  she  must  obey  that  summons,  gentle  and  yet 
reproachful,  and  she  struggled  against  her  own  reluctance  and  the 
weariness  of  effort.  Suddenly  she  found  herself  hurrying  through 
the  darkness  lest  she  be  too  late.  .  .  . 

She  was  in  the  chill  air  and  there  was  now  a  pale  phosphores- 
cence in  the  sky  which  enabled  her  to  see  her  way.  She  was  stray- 
ing in  a  wilderness  of  rocks,  some  of  which  were  hewn  into  the 
shape  of  great  slabs  and  tilted  strangely.  Among  the  rocks 
were  small  flickerings  that  came  and  went.  People  were  moving 
about  and  she  saw  that  some  among  them  carried  small  bronze  or 
stone  lamps. 

'But  why  are  they  coming  up  from  the  rocks?' 

She  was  puzzled  for  the  people  seemed  to  be  emerging  from  the 
ground.  Then  she  saw  that  they  were  coming  up  the  steps  from 
small  underground  dwellings,  the  stone  doors  of  which  were  wide 
open.  The  wicks  of  lamps  were  burning  with  a  feeble,  bluish  flame 
in  those  chambers  and  she  could  see  that  the  rock-walls  were  glisten- 
ing with  damp.  She  found  herself  at  the  threshold  of  one  of  the  un- 
derground rooms  and  saw,  to  her  surprise,  a  low  stone  table  at  which 
a  hooded  figure  was  seated.  There  was  bread  and  wine  upon  the 
table  and  the  stranger,  as  if  expecting  her,  held  out  the  bread  to  her. 

She  felt  hunger  but,  even  as  she  put  out  her  hand,  a  warning  voice 
was  at  her  ear. 

Do  not  eat  anything  here  or  you  will  never  escape. 

But  the  stooping  figure  picked  up  the  wine  cup  and  held  it  to  her. 


GORMLAI   AND   CORMAC  395 

She  felt  a  great  thirst  but,  just  as  she  was  about  to  take  the  chal- 
ice, the  invisible  warner  spoke  again. 

Do  not  drink  or  you  will  never  escape  from  here. 

As  if  aware  of  the  presence  of  that  warning  spirit,  the  stranger  at 
the  table  looked  up.  There  was  no  face  beneath  the  hood  but  a  mass 
of  leprous  corruption. 

'Christ  save  me!'  With  a  sob  of  terror,  Gormlai  stumbled  up  the 
steps  from  the  tomb.  .  .  . 

She  was  running  across  a  waste,  dimly  lighted  by  the  moon.  Glanc- 
ing back  over  her  shoulder,  she  could  see  at  a  distance  those  people 
in  their  long  grey  robes,  still  coming  up  among  the  rocks  or  going 
down  steps  again  into  the  sepulchres,  as  if  they  had  forgotten  some- 
thing. She  had  gone  a  little  way  when  she  noticed  a  long  line  of  peo- 
ple moving  slowly  and  with  weary  gestures  along  the  ridges  of  a  hill. 
Some  among  them  raised  pale  faces  towards  the  sky,  stopping  in 
numb  despair,  and  then  went  on  again.  A  dim  memory  stirred  in  her 
mind,  but  it  was  too  faint  for  her  to  hold  its  significance.  She  only 
knew  that  it  was  part  of  a  great  affliction.  Those  people  were  escap- 
ing from  a  terrible  invasion.  They  had  left  behind  them  the  black- 
ened fields  and  charred  homesteads.  So  she  saw  the  people  of 
Munster  going  past.  Then  she  knew  that  some  terrible  grief  had 
happened  to  her  too — some  shock  that  had  numbed  her  mind  with 
pain  so  that  she  could  not  even  remember  what  had  occurred.  But 
as  she  came  towards  the  desolate  crowd,  several  moved  their  lips 
silently  and  pointed  to  her  to  go  back. 

They  were  trying  to  tell  her  something  and  they  were  afraid  to 
speak.  Someone  had  forbidden  her  to  go  with  them.  She  must  re- 
member. She  must  remember  what  it  was  that  she  had  forgotten. 

1  have  been  called/ 

That  was  it.  She  knew  at  last.  She  had  been  called  and  she  would 
be  too  late.  Something  terrible  would  happen  to  her  if  she  did  not 
get  there  in  time.  But  where  was  it  she  was  to  go  and  what  was  she 
to  do? 

'Poor  Gormlai!  Poor  Gormlai!'  The  voice  was  so  near,  so  full  of 
pity  that  it  surprised  her  and  for  a  moment  she  did  not  realize  that 
it  was  her  own  voice,  that  she  was  speaking  to  herself.  But  her  voice 
was  no  longer  young.  It  was  old  and  thin,  sighing,  sighing  to  itself 
so  that  she  could  not  keep  from  bursting  into  tears.  Never  had  she 
known  so  terrible  a  loneliness.  Around  her  was  a  moonlit  desert, 


396  AUSTIN    CLARKE 

chill  and  shadowed  but  by  its  own  endless  furrows.  Looking  down 
she  noticed  for  the  first  time  the  grey,  ugly  robe  that  hid  her  limbs. 
She  was  clad  as  a  penitent.  She  was  here  in  the  wilderness  because 
of  some  sin  she  had  committed  long  ago.  .  .  . 

It  seemed  as  if  she  had  been  wandering  for  years  in  that  wilderness 
for  she  could  remember  nothing  of  her  past  life.  Then  suddenly  her 
attention  was  caught  by  a  curious  glittering  in  the  distance.  At  first 
she  thought  that  the  moon  had  become  brighter.  Then  she  saw  that 
the  glittering  was  caused  by  a  threefold  mountain  in  the  north.  The 
mountain,  like  a  great  jewel,  emitted  its  own  radiance  and  yet  its 
rays  did  not  explore  the  darkness  surrounding  it. 

Hurry!  Hurry!  Her  guardian  angel  beside  her  was  again  protect- 
ing her,  aiding  her  so  that  quicker  than  her  own  thought  she  was 
approaching  the  glittering  tiers  of  that  mountain. 

She  could  not  tell  how  it  happened.  The  next  moment  she  found 
herself  immediately  below  a  small  plat.  People  were  moving  to  and 
fro  along  the  plat  and  because  of  their  astonishing  radiance  she 
thought  at  first  they  were  living  jewels. 

On  the  fair  grass  that  was  of  a  substance  more  precious  than  parti- 
coloured enamels  those  people  were  moving  joyfully  among  them- 
selves in  slowly  circling  patterns  and  the  loveliness  of  their  glances 
held  her  in  fascination.  Never  had  she  seen  such  noble  faces,  such 
glances  lost  in  their  own  light.  The  rich  shapely  robes  which  those 
men  and  women  wore  must  be  the  cause  of  their  radiance  for  they 
seemed  of  a  pure  crystalline  substance  that  she  had  never  seen  be- 
fore. She  was  staring  at  those  happy  people  as  they  came  and  went, 
examining  their  bodies  with  a  curiosity,  with  a  darting  minuteness 
that  was  unusual  to  her.  It  was  some  time  before  she  realized  that 
those  people  were  entirely  naked  and  that  it  was  their  own  bodies 
which  were  so  radiant.  Gracefully,  with  beatific  faces,  those  men  and 
women  moved  in  ever-changing  circles,  rejoicing  among  themselves 
without  shame  or  embarrassment.  They  were  as  immortals  who  live 
in  regions  of  bliss,  untouched  by  memory  or  mortal  cares. 

To  and  fro  those  men  and  women  moved  as  in  a  ceremonial  dance, 
with  glimmering  brow  and  limbs.  All  were  similar  in  grace,  in  form, 
and  there  were  no  shameful  differences  between  them.  They  were 
sexless  as  our  first  parents  in  Eden.  To  and  fro  the  everliving  moved 
in  delight  along  the  lustres  of  grass. 

They  are  the  Blessed,'  she  thought.  It  is  the  first  night  of  the 


GORMLAI   AND   CORMAC  397 

Resurrection  and  such  are  the  bodies  of  the  glorified,  those  whose 
flesh  has  been  made  holy  by  the  righteousness  of  their  lives/ 

Even  as  the  thought  crossed  her  mind,  she  saw  one  of  the  blessed 
approach  her  and  she  knew  by  the  stranger's  smile  that  it  was  a 
woman.  With  a  look  of  pity,  the  bright  one  bent  down  and  held  out 
to  her  a  silver  beaker. 

Do  not  drink!  Gormlai  heard  the  faithful  warning.  But  her  lips 
were  parching  and  temptation  overcame  her.  She  was  about  to  take 
the  glittering  vessel  when  she  saw  the  woman  looking  down  at  her 
in  horror.  In  confusion,  Gormlai  realized  that  her  penitential  gar- 
ment was  torn  and  that  her  breasts,  heavy  and  dull,  were  exposed. 
She  stepped  back  in  shame  as  all  those  dazzling  faces  turned  towards 
her  in  surprise. 

The  next  moment  the  plat  and  its  gleaming  figures  was  far  be- 
hind. Once  more  she  was  running  in  the  middle  of  the  desert  plain. 
She  was  approaching  the  ridges  of  the  triplicate  mountain  and  its 
rocks  were  already  astir  with  glittering  multitudes  of  beings.  They 
were  watching  her  and  she  could  not  cease  from  running  to- 
wards them.  She  bent  down  as  she  ran,  trying  to  grasp  her  torn  robe, 
to  hold  it  against  her  thigh.  But,  to  her  horror,  the  weft  was  crum- 
bling between  her  fingers  as  fast  as  she  plucked  at  it.  Frantically 
she  clutched  at  the  dwindling  rags,  the  last  threads.  But  they  disap- 
peared into  fine  dust  in  her  fists  and  in  a  few  seconds  she  was  a 
naked  biped  before  that  silent  throng  of  noble  beings.  She  tried  to 
hide  her  shame  by  pulling  down  her  locks  around  her.  But  she  could 
not  conceal  the  coarse  hips,  thickened  by  middle  age,  the  flabby 
paunch,  wrinkled  and  seamed  as  if  by  childbirth.  She  crouched  as 
she  stumbled  onward,  in  a  wild  attempt  to  escape  from  the  glittering 
mountain  of  eyes. 

Gormlai! 

The  voice  which  she  had  tried  to  forget  was  now  an  imperious 
summons.  She  dared  no  longer  disobey  the  anger  in  its  tone.  It  pro- 
longed itself  and  lesser  voices  took  up  her  name  like  echoes  and 
bandied  it  throughout  the  hollows  of  the  air.  .  .  . 

All  had  changed. 

She  was  standing  in  the  centre  of  a  vast  pavement.  Light  beat  on 
her  lids  so  that  she  could  scarcely  see  the  ranks  of  watching  genii  on 
each  side.  The  radiance  which  was  before  her  exceeded  all  shape  and 
form,  preceding  them,  as  she  thought,  and  known  to  her  by  its  op- 


398  AUSTIN   CLARKE 

posite.  For  she  was  lost  now  in  the  very  darkness  of  light  and  knew 
that  the  seven  nights  of  which  that  blackness  was  composed  were  the 
Great  Wounds. 

Voices  were  taking  their  places  on  both  sides  of  her. 

'Gormlai,  daughter  of  Flann  Siona.' 

*I  am  here/ 

Her  lips  uttered  the  words  of  their  own  accord. 

'Let  her  life  be  shown.' 

The  presences  around  her  were  astir.  She  was  lost.  Her  last 
chance  of  salvation  was  gone  for  ever.  It  was  too  late  to  repent. 

A  rustling  sound  was  approaching,  the  crisping  of  forests  when 
the  wind  begins  to  awaken  them,  the  angry  gossip  of  fire  finding  its 
own  strength,  growing  gigantic  as  the  mental  fear  of  it.  In  the  dark- 
ness the  mind  can  see  more  clearly.  She  was  aware  of  a  great  Book, 
its  pages  descending  into  many  sounds. 

Her  mind  was  whirling  with  those  pages,  her  senses  racing  with 
and  through  them — red-purple,  green  and  silver  illuminations,  un- 
ending scrolls  were  revolving  around  each  other,  expanding  and  con- 
tracting within  their  reappearing  circles,  while  glittering  animals 
whisked  into  them  glancing  at  her  with  small,  startled  eyes  as  they 
passed.  Great  capitals  sprang  with  their  retinues  into  word  shapes 
and  vanished  more  quickly  than  their  own  ink,  so  that  she  had  no 
time  to  catch  their  meanings.  All  was  racing  towards  her  and  reced- 
ing in  a  dim,  confused  roar,  as  if  she  were  held  in  the  delirium  of  a 
great  brain. 

It  is  the  Book  of  Life.' 

To  her  astonishment,  she  was  quietly  watching  minute  simulacra 
that  were  vaguely  familiar  to  her.  But  each  was  so  small  that  it 
seemed  less  in  span  than  the  imaging  on  a  retina.  Five  tiny  children 
were  running  towards  her  hand  in  hand.  She  was  behind  a  tree,  but 
the  children  stopped  and  screamed  with  terror  as  she  beckoned  to 
them.  When  she  turned  she  was  in  a  room,  for  the  evening  sunlight 
was  shining  on  the  edges  of  a  high  table.  A  woman  was  seated  at 
the  table,  her  head  bowed  with  grief.  'Mother,  it  is  you  at  last/ 
Gormlai  went  towards  her  but  the  woman  looked  up  in  alarm  and 
pointed  to  the  door.  Next  moment  Gormlai  was  in  the  darkness,  ham- 
mering in  fear  at  the  locked  door,  trying  desperately  to  get  out. 

'Attend,'  whispered  a  voice.  The  faithful  spirit  was  warning  her 
again.  She  was  still  standing  in  the  middle  of  the  pavement  and  all 
were  watching  her. 


GORMLAI    AND   CORMAC  399 

'Yes,  yes.  I  am  listening.' 

The  voices  were  so  rapid  that  she  could  not  hear  what  they  were 
saying.  They  were  accusing  her  and  her  mind  could  not  keep  pace 
with  their  words.  With  a  despairing  effort,  she  caught  at  the  mean- 
ing as  it  fled  past  her. 

'Was  this  woman  married?' 

'Yes.' 

'More  than  once.' 

'Yes.' 

'How  many  times?' 

She  tried  to  cry  out,  to  contradict  those  interlocutory  voices,  those 
false  answers,  but  her  lips  failed  her.  There  was  some  dreadful 
error.  They  had  mistaken  her  for  someone  else.  They  were  con- 
demning her  and  she  was  innocent. 

'How  many  times?' 

She  had  not  heard  the  answer  to  that  question.  She  had  been 
thinking  of  something  else.  She  had  been  unwary,  tricked  into  in- 
attention. It  was  too  late  and  she  would  never  know  now. 

But  she  must  tell  them  that  they  were  wrong.  She  had  only  been 
married  once.  Truly  it  was  so.  She  could  not  remember  to  whom  she 
had  been  married,  but  she  knew  somehow  that  her  husband  was 
mild  and  pious. 

The  voices  had  hurried  ahead  of  her  and  she  could  not  catch  up 
with  them. 

'What  happened  that  night  at  Knockmore?' 

'Was  she  unfaithful  to  her  marriage  vows  that  night?' 

Adulteress! — the  words  wrote  themselves  across  her  mind  searing 
it  with  anguish. 

'No.  No.  I  was  not  there.  I  swear  that  I  am  innocent.' 

The  spirit  at  her  shoulder  restrained  her  quietly  so  that  she  did 
not  know  whether  the  wild  denial  had  crossed  her  lips. 

The  rustle  of  leaves  was  around  her  and  she  knew  that  the  Book 
was  living  again.  She  peered  into  a  room,  housed  somewhere  in  a 
forest,  for  the  trees  were  still  whispering  outside.  Then  she  saw  her 
own  face  in  the  moonlight.  She  was  lying  in  a  bed  but  she  could  not 
see  clearly  the  man  who  was  beside  her. 

'Let  her  husbands  come  forward.' 

The  summons  rang  out  and  she  trembled  alone  in  the  centre  of  the 
pavement.  Steps  were  coming  slowly,  gravely  towards  her.  The  steps 
hesitated  and  stopped,  making  a  little  silence  of  their  own.  She  was 


400  AUSTIN   CLARKE 

triumphant.  Her  accusers  had  been  wrong — she  had  only  been  mar- 
^^riecUonce.  But  her  gladness  was  brief  for  heavier  steps  were  ap- 
proaching from  the  opposite  direction  and  she  listened  with  an 
agony  of  realization.  They  stopped  and  she  heard  the  footsteps  of 
yet  another,  quick,  impulsive  and  vaguely  familiar  to  her.  How  long 
must  she  endure  the  suspense? 

Do  not  look  back.  The  warning  came  from  her  own  mind.  She 
must  not  look  on  the  faces  of  the  strangers  who  were  waiting  or  she 
would  be  trapped  into  some  admission. 

'Turn  and  face  your  husbands.' 

'No.  No.'  Her  self-will  sprang  up  dark  and  monstrous  as  she  re- 
fused the  command.  It  exulted  in  its  darkness,  in  its  savage  power. 
The  next  instant  she  knew  that  she  had  been  tricked  into  condemning 
herself.  In  that  dark  flush  of  wilfulness  she  had  laid  bare  her  true 
nature,  she  had  shown  her  rebelliousness  against  the  subservient  po- 
sition of  womankind.  There  was  silence  all  around  her.  The  genii 
were  waiting  to  see  what  she  would  do.  But  the  mounting,  despair- 
ing flush  filled  her  soul. 

'The  trial  is  unjust.  I  protest.  I  protest.' 

The  gentle  spirit  that  had  guided  her  was  weeping  beside  her.  But 
she  pushed  past  it  sullenly  in  the  night  of  will,  her  voice  harsh  and 
violent. 

Then,  for  one  awful  second  of  revelation,  she  saw  a  bright  form 
like  that  of  Lu  the  Sun  God,  rising  up  while  the  winged  beings 
abased  themselves. 

All  had  changed. 

She  was  clinging  frantically  to  a  Tarpeian  rock  somewhere  near 
a  dim-lit  sky.  Far  below  a  river  was  descending  in  seven  falls  that 
seemed  like  weirs.  'This  is  the  ransom  of  the  world,'  said  a  voice,  'Ti- 
tus seeks  more.'  She  saw  that  the  river  was  of  blood  and  she  screamed 
as  the  rock  slowly  parted,  carrying  her  down  to  the  gulf. 

Gormlai  was  awakened  by  the  echo  of  her  own  scream  ringing  in 
her  ears.  She  sat  up  and  listened,  but  the  silence  of  the  night  was  so 
intense  that  she  found  it  difficult  to  believe  that  her  cry  had  pierced 
it  the  moment  before.  She  waited  for  the  quick  running  steps  of 
the  housewomen  coming  to  her  assistance.  She  would  have  to  re- 
assure them,  answer  their  startled  enquiries,  but  a  minute  elapsed 
and  no  one  came. 

T  must  have  dreamed  that  I  cried  out.' 


GORMLAI   AND   CORMAC  401 

The  moonlight  shone  fully  on  the  counterpane.  She  could  have 
read  by  its  brilliant  ray  and  its  calmness  was  soothing  to  her  agitated 
mind.  The  moon  must  have  been  shining  on  her  face  while  she  lay 
asleep:  she  had  been  in  the  midst  of  its  cold  radiance  while  her  mind 
was  struggling  through  darkness  and  terror.  But  how  long  had  she 
been  asleep?  The  question  brought  back  confused  impressions  of 
her  ordeal  and  she  shivered.  Little  wonder  that  she  had  feared  to  go 
asleep  that  night,  feared  to  explore  those  mysterious  regions  in 
which  the  mind  can  suffer  so  much  woe.  The  wild  uproar  of  the 
nightmare  had  become  confused  and  meaningless  as  she  fought 
her  way  back  to  consciousness,  but  she  must  remember  all  that  had 
happened  to  her  in  her  sleep  before  it  was  too  late.  That  dream  had 
been  sent  to  her  as  a  warning. 

'No.  No.  It  was  nothing  more  than  fantasy.  I  have  been  read- 
ing too  much  during  the  last  week.' 

But  her  conscience  was  uneasy,  and  as  she  concentrated  on  the 
fleeting  images  of  her  dream,  recalling  its  last  awful  moments,  she 
could  not  resist  the  thought  that  she  had  been  in  the  power  of  evil. 
In  that  way  she  was  punished  for  tampering  with  the  forbidden 
knowledge.  But  why  should  knowledge  be  corrupting,  if  one  sought 
it  with  a  pure  motive?  Why  should  her  mind  be  stained  and  a  tor- 
ment to  itself? 

She  caught  sight  of  her  breasts  in  the  moonlight  and  the  anguish 
of  her  dream  returned.  Once  more  she  was  snatching  at  the  disap- 
pearing robe  that  she  might  hide  herself  from  a  multitude  of  peer- 
ing eyes.  Never  again  would  she  be  herself,  happy  among  her 
thoughts,  delighting  in  the  ever-fair  promises  of  existence. 

It  must  be  long  after  midnight,  but  she  dared  not  sleep  again. 
She  would  go  back  to  the  scriptorium  and  remain  there  until  day- 
break. The  fire  would  still  be  smouldering  and  she  remembered  that 
there  was  plenty  of  fuel  in  the  basket.  She  would  be  safe  there.  She 
got  up  and  dressed  herself  hastily  by  the  light  of  the  room. 

She  felt  calmer  when  she  was  dressed  and  stopped  to  gaze  from 
the  sill  at  the  plain  below.  The  distant  fields  were  greyly  lumi- 
nous in  the  moonlight.  Far  away  were  the  low  mountain  ranges 
and  the  dim  edges  of  the  Great  Forest  in  the  south-west.  She  stared 
at  the  calm  idle  land  below  in  wonder  and  perplexity.  Often  she  had 
stolen  from  her  bed  in  the  past  and  watched  such  meadowlands 
under  the  moonlight.  Poets  taught  long  ago  that  field  and  wood  hid 
an  inner,  secret  land,  lovelier  than  the  visible  world  where  moon 


402  AUSTIN   CLARKE 

and  sun  shone  on  apple  blossom,  where  fruit  and  bud  prospered 
side  by  side  on  the  one  branch.  But  now  the  far  plains  seemed  blank 
and  vacant,  meaningless  as  the  cold  moon  shining  to  itself  in  the 
empty  abyss  of  the  air.  All  was  indifferent  to  the  hot  turmoil  and 
agitation  of  her  mind.  The  lovely  imaginings  of  the  past,  the  be- 
liefs that  ennobled  life  were  all  gone.  But  where  was  that  grim  world 
of  sin  and  retribution  that  hid  behind  the  mystery  of  sleep,  that 
no  waking  eye  could  detect? 

She  wrapped  herself  in  a  winter  cloak,  for  the  chills  of  the 
night  made  her  shiver.  She  left  the  room  and  moved  quietly  down 
the  passages,  fearful  lest  her  footstep  be  heard.  All  in  that  great 
house  were  asleep.  In  the  darkness  she  fancied  she  could  hear,  like 
a  single  breath,  a  great  recurrent  sigh,  the  breathing  of  all  the  sleep- 
ers in  that  house.  Soon  she  was  at  the  threshold  in  the  moonlight 
once  more. 

She  drew  the  hood  of  the  cloak,  concealing  her  features  as  she 
crossed  the  bright  courtyard.  As  she  glanced  back  at  the  walls  of  the 
dormer-house,  her  attention  was  caught  by  the  shadow  she  cast.  It 
seemed  to  her  like  the  shadow  of  a  tall  Abbess. 

She  entered  the  doorway  of  the  chapel  tower,  and  looked  around 
her  cautiously. 

A  dim  light  filtered  through  a  high  fenestrelle,  and  as  she  turned 
to  hurry  up  the  stairs  to  the  scriptorium,  she  glanced  towards  the 
archway  that  led  to  the  chapel.  The  pavement  of  the  chapel  was 
flooded  with  moonlight  and  the  rich  carvings  of  coign  and  pillar 
were  strangely  clear.  The  holiness  and  peace  of  that  place  filled 
her  heart.  Often  as  a  young  girl  she  had  stolen  alone  into  some  quiet 
chapel  at  evening  and  cried  to  herself  in  her  happiness.  But  she  had 
hardened  her  heart  and  turned  from  God.  She  felt  again  that  emo- 
tion of  trust  and  longing  which  she  had  tried  to  forget,  even  to  stifle. 
If  she  knelt  in  prayer  she  would  find  peace  again.  The  grace  of 
Heaven  had  led  her  there  that  night. 

She  went  slowly  towards  the  arch,  but  she  had  not  gone  more 
than  a  few  steps  when  her  foot  struck  something  on  the  ground.  She 
almost  started  back  in  alarm,  then  quickly  recovered  herself. 
Scarcely  realizing  what  she  was  doing,  she  stooped  and  carefully 
picked  up  the  slender  object  lying  at  her  feet.  For  a  moment  she  fin- 
gered it  absentmindedly  in  the  dim  light  but  could  not  make  out 
what  it  was.  It  might  be  an  asperge  of  some  kind  which  had  been 
overlooked  by  the  sacristan.  Even  as  she  gripped  the  leather  handle 


GORMLAI   AND   CORMAC  403 

she  knew  that  she  was  mistaken.  It  must  be  a  goad,  left  by  some 
careless  driver.  She  was  stupid  not  to  have  noticed  at  first  that  it  was 
sticky  and  that  her  fingers  were  wet.  Suddenly  she  guessed  what  it 
was  and  with  a  shudder  of  horror  she  dropped  the  awful  thing  and 
ran  to  a  high  fenestrelle.  She  held  up  her  hands  to  the  ray.  She  was 
right.  The  dark  streaks  on  her  fingers  were  blood-stains. 

She  leaned  against  the  wall  until  she  had  overcome  her  inclina- 
tion to  vomit.  Then  she  moved  towards  the  archway  as  far  as  possi- 
ble from  the  flagellum  lying  there  in  the  darkness.  She  wanted  to 
escape  to  the  book-room  but  she  was  afraid  of  stepping  again  on  that 
horrid  thing  in  the  darkness.  Somebody  must  have  been  using  it  a 
short  time  ago  and  at  once  she  thought  of  the  ascetic,  Fernan.  She 
had  heard  hints  of  his  austerities.  It  was  said  that  he  wore  chains 
knotted  around  his  limbs  and  that  the  rusted  iron  had  eaten  into  his 
flesh  under  the  glossy  soutane.  She  had  only  seen  him  once  or  twice 
at  a  distance  near  the  chapel.  He  must  have  come  there  in  the  dead 
of  the  night  after  she  had  left  the  scriptorium.  Perhaps  he  had  been 
interrupted  by  a  step  and  was  hiding  somewhere  near.  She  had  stum- 
bled accidentally  upon  his  secret  and  it  oppressed  her.  She  almost 
imagined  she  could  see  his  small,  wry  figure,  stooping  in  the  shadowy 
corner  opposite  her  when  she  drew  back.  She  was  standing  on  the 
moon-lit  pavement  beyond  the  arch  and  she  turned  in  astonish- 
ment. She  had  stepped  into  peace  and  rare  loveliness.  Never  had  she 
been  in  the  chapel  by  moonlight  and  she  was  entranced.  Gazing  at 
the  arcaded  walls  with  their  delicate  pilasters  and  mouldings,  en- 
riched by  deeper  shadow,  she  forgot  for  a  moment  her  agitation.  Be- 
yond the  massive  central  arch  was  the  chancel  stilled  by  a  brighter 
radiance  so  that  its  fair  pierced  stonework,  its  simple  altar  table, 
had  become  pure  silver. 

As  she  glided  forward,  anxious  to  get  away  from  the  atrium,  she 
noticed  the  serried  heads  carven  on  the  chancel  arch  above  her.  She 
fancied  that  those  stern  male  faces  were  watching  her,  were  leaning 
forward  to  prevent  her  passing  them.  They  were  like  the  horrible 
heads  of  unfortunate  hostages  decapitated  in  time  of  war.  If  she 
turned  to  the  right  or  the  left  she  would  see  a  bearded  manhead 
bending  towards  her  from  either  cornice. 

'No.  No.  I  must  pray.  I  must  not  look  at  them/ 

She  moved  towards  the  chancel,  keeping  her  eyes  down  as  she 
passed  under  that  arch  of  mocking  heads.  She  knelt  down,  but  even 
as  she  did  so,  she  was  aware  that  she  was  not  alone  in  the  chapel. 


404  AUSTIN   CLARKE 

There  was  someone  in  the  tiny  aisle  in  front  of  her.  It  was  the  priest, 
Fernan,  and  as  she  rose  hastily  to  her  feet,  she  realized  her  folly. 
She  was  chilled,  she  was  trembling,  but  her  eyes  were  drawn  to 
him  in  horror.  In  the  mingled  light  and  shadow  of  that  corner  she 
saw  him  abased  on  the  flags.  His  robe  was  stripped  from  his  back 
and  there  were  long,  dark  weals  on  his  flesh.  As  she  was  about  to 
steal  away,  he  raised  himself  slowly  and  something  familiar  in  the 
movement  of  his  shoulders  caught  her  attention.  The  man  was  bigger 
than  Fernan.  The  next  moment  his  voice  rose  in  anguish. 

But  she  had  known  even  before  he  raised  his  voice  that  it  was 
Cormac  who  knelt  there.  In  that  moment  everything  was  clear — ut- 
terly clear  to  her.  She  understood  why  he  had  avoided  her  during 
the  last  months,  why  he  had  gone  away  suddenly  to  Dysart.  She  felt 
all  the  force  of  that  which  had  come  between  them  and  the  shock  of 
seeing  him  there  was  less  than  that  new  knowledge.  He  had  re- 
turned to  Cashel  secretly  without  telling  her  of  his  arrival.  Their 
ways  were  apart  now,  their  marriage  was  destroyed  and  she  must 
keep  the  secret  of  this  night  all  the  rest  of  her  life. 

She  scarcely  knew  how  she  reached  the  threshold  again.  She 
could  not  remember  running  through  the  moonlight  to  the  dormer- 
house.  Thoughts  rushed  and  clamoured  in  her  feverish  imagination. 
Her  instinct  had  been  right  all  along  and  ever  since  that  fatal  day 
at  Glenalua  she  had  been  trying  to  deceive  herself. 

The  grim  denunciations  of  womankind  which  she  had  been  read- 
ing every  night  that  week  in  tracts  and  ancient  volumes  rang  around 
her.  Stories  of  the  saints  which  had  frightened  her  as  a  child  in  the 
Sunday  class  raced  back  into  her  memory.  There  were  still  enclosed 
anchorites  in  remote  places  of  Ireland.  They  were  immured  in  pits 
beneath  the  church  wall.  Hard  food  was  handed  down  to  them 
through  the  grill  daily  and  they  were  huddled  there  in  darkness  and 
chill,  in  rags  and  excrement.  Saint  Kiernan  slept  on  the  flags  even  in 
winter,  with  a  stone  for  bolster.  Saint  Fernan  slept  beside  his  own 
open  grave  every  night  of  his  life.  Saint  Baithin  was  accustomed  to 
stretch  beside  every  new  corpse  that  was  brought  into  the  mortuary 
chapel.  Others  tortured  themselves  in  thorny  brakes  and  suspended 
themselves  in  bog-pools  by  means  of  scythe-blades  placed  beneath 
their  armpits.  They  fasted  for  forty  days  at  a  time  and  carried  great 
boulders  in  order  that  they  might  be  worthy  of  the  example  of  the 
Crucified  One.  Heaven  demanded  these  sacrifices  from  the  elect,  so 


GORMLAI    AND   CORMAC  405 

that  they  might  atone  for  the  sins  of  the  wicked.  Hundreds  of  pale 
youths  and  virgins  went  gladly  to  cell  or  desert  that,  by  their  self- 
inflicted  mortifications,  they  might  save  others  from  the  anger  of 
Heaven.  Even  in  marriage  must  that  sacrifice  be  demanded? 

She  was  back  again  in  her  room.  She  was  sitting  on  the  edge  of 
the  bed  staring  into  the  moonlight,  but  she  did  not  see  its  peaceful 
gleams — she  was  staring  into  the  darkness  of  her  own  fate. 


FRANK    O    CONNOR 

The  Bridal  Night1 

It  was  sunset,  and  the  two  great  humps  of  rock  made  a  twilight 
in  the  cove  where  the  boats  were  lying  high  up  the  strand.  There 
was  one  light  only  in  a  little  whitewashed  cottage.  Around  the  head- 
land came  a  boat,  and  the  heavy  dipping  of  its  oars  was  like  a  heron's 
flight.  The  old  woman  was  sitting  on  the  low  stone  wall  outside 
her  cottage. 

'  'Tis  a  lonesome  place/  said  I. 

'  'Tis  so,'  she  agreed,  'a  lonesome  place,  but  any  place  is  lonesome 
without  one  you'd  care  for.' 

'Your  own  flock  are  gone  from  you,  I  suppose?'  I  asked. 

1  never  had  but  the  one,'  she  replied,  'the  one  son  only,'  and  I 
knew  because  she  did  not  add  a  prayer  for  his  soul  that  he  was  still 
alive. 

Is  it  in  America  he  is?'  I  asked.  (It  is  to  America  all  the  boys  of 
the  locality  go  when  they  leave  home. ) 

'No,  then,'  she  replied  simply.  Tt  is  in  the  asylum  in  Cork  he  is  on 
me  these  twelve  years.' 

I  had  no  fear  of  trespassing  on  her  emotions.  These  lonesome 
people  in  wild  places,  it  is  their  nature  to  speak;  they  must  cry  out 
their  sorrows  like  the  wild  birds. 

'God  help  us!'  I  said.  'Far  enough!' 

'Far  enough,'  she  sighed.  'Too  far  for  an  old  woman.  There  was  a 
nice  priest  here  one  time  brought  me  up  in  his  car  to  see  him.  All 
the  ways  to  this  wild  place  he  brought  it,  and  he  drove  me  into  the 
city.  It  is  a  place  I  was  never  used  to,  but  it  eased  my  mind  to  see 
poor  Denis  well-cared-for  and  well-liked.  It  was  a  trouble  to  me  be- 
fore that,  not  knowing  would  they  see  what  a  good  boy  he  was  before 
his  madness  came  on  him.  He  knew  me;  he  saluted  me,  but  he  said 
nothing  until  the  superintendent  came  to  tell  me  the  tea  was  ready 
for  me.  Then  poor  Denis  raised  his  head  and  says,  "Leave  ye  not  for- 
get the  toast.  She  was  ever  a  great  one  for  her  bit  of  toast."  It  seemed 
to  give  him  ease  and  he  cried  after.  A  good  boy  he  was  and  is.  It  was 
like  him  after  seven  long  years  to  think  of  his  old  mother  and  her  lit- 
tle bit  of  toast' 

'God  help  us,'  I  said,  for  her  voice  was  like  the  birds',  hurrying 

1  From  Crab  Apple  Jelly,  New  York.  Copyright  1944  by  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  Inc. 

406 


THE   BRIDAL   NIGHT  407 

high,  immensely  high,  in  the  coloured  light,  out  to  sea  to  the  last 
islands  where  their  nests  were. 

'Blessed  be  His  Holy  Will,'  the  old  woman  added,  'there  is  no 
turning  aside  what  is  in  store.  It  was  a  teacher  that  was  here  at  the 
time.  Miss  Regan  her  name  was.  She  was  a  fine  big  jolly  girl  from 
the  town.  Her  father  had  a  shop  there.  They  said  she  had  three 
hundred  pounds  to  her  own  cheek  the  day  she  set  foot  in  the  school, 
and — 'tis  hard  to  believe  but  'tis  what  they  all  said:  I  will  not  belie 
her — 'twasn't  banished  she  was  at  all,  but  she  came  here  of  her  own 
choice,  for  the  great  liking  she  had  for  the  sea  and  the  mountains. 
Now,  that  is  the  story,  and  with  my  own  eyes  I  saw  her,  day  in  day 
out,  coming  down  the  little  pathway  you  came  yourself  from  the 
road,  and  sitting  beyond  there  in  a  hollow  you  can  hardly  see,  out  of 
the  wind.  The  neighbours  could  make  nothing  of  it,  and  she  being  a 
stranger,  and  with  only  the  book  Irish,  they  left  her  alone.  It  never 
seemed  to  take  a  peg  out  of  her,  only  sitting  in  that  hole  in  the 
rocks,  as  happy  as  the  day  is  long,  reading  her  little  book  or  writing 
her  letters.  Of  an  odd  time  she  might  bring  one  of  the  little  scholars 
along  with  her  to  be  picking  posies. 

'That  was  where  my  Denis  saw  her.  He'd  go  up  to  her  of  an  eve- 
ning and  sit  on  the  grass  beside  her,  and  off  and  on  he  might  take 
her  out  in  the  boat  with  him.  And  she'd  say  with  that  big  laugh  of 
hers,  "Denis  is  my  beau."  Those  now  were  her  words  and  she  meant 
no  more  harm  by  it  than  the  child  unborn,  and  I  knew  it  and 
Denis  knew  it,  and  it  was  a  little  joke  we  had,  the  three  of  us.  It  was 
the  same  way  she  used  to  joke  about  her  little  hollow.  "Mrs.  Sulli- 
van," she'd  say,  "leave  no  one  near  it.  It  is  my  nest  and  my  cell  and 
my  little  prayer-house,  and  maybe  I  would  be  like  the  birds  and  catch 
the  smell  of  the  stranger  and  then  fly  away  from  ye  all."  It  did  me 
good  to  hear  her  laugh,  and  whenever  I  saw  Denis  moping  or  idle  I 
would  say  it  to  himself,  "Denis,  why  wouldn't  you  go  out  and  pay 
your  attentions  to  Miss  Regan  and  all  saying  you  are  her  intended?" 
It  was  only  a  joke.  I  would  say  the  same  thing  to  her  face,  for  Denis 
was  such  a  quiet  boy,  no  way  rough  or  accustomed  to  the  girls  at  all 
— and  how  would  he  in  this  lonesome  place? 

T  will  not  belie  her;  it  was  she  saw  first  that  poor  Denis  was  after 
more  than  company,  and  it  was  not  to  this  cove  she  came  at  all  then 
but  to  the  little  cove  beyond  the  headland,  and  'tis  hardly  she  would 
go  there  itself  without  a  little  scholar  along  with  her.  "Ah,"  says  I, 
for  I  missed  her  company,  "isn't  it  the  great  stranger  Miss  Regan  is 


408  FRANK    OCONNOR 

becoming?"  and  Denis  would  put  on  his  coat  and  go  hunting  in  the 
dusk  till  he  came  to  whatever  spot  she  was.  Little  ease  that  was  to 
him,  poor  boy,  for  he  lost  his  tongue  entirely,  and  lying  on  his  belly 
before  her,  chewing  an  old  bit  of  grass,  is  all  he  would  do  till  she  got 
up  and  left  him.  He  could  not  help  himself,  poor  boy.  The  madness 
was  on  him,  even  then,  and  it  was  only  when  I  saw  the  plunder  done 
that  I  knew  there  was  no  cure  for  him  only  to  put  her  out  of  his 
mind  entirely.  For  'twas  madness  in  him  and  he  knew  it,  and  that 
was  what  made  him  lose  his  tongue — he  that  was  maybe  without  the 
price  of  an  ounce  of  'baccy — I  will  not  deny  it:  often  enough  he 
had  to  do  without  it  when  the  hens  would  not  be  laying,  and  often 
enough  stirabout  and  praties  was  all  we  had  for  days.  And  there  was 
she  with  money  to  her  name  in  the  bank!  And  that  wasn't  all,  for 
he  was  a  good  boy;  a  quiet,  good-natured  boy,  and  another  would 
take  pity  on  him,  knowing  he  would  make  her  a  fine  steady  hus- 
band, but  she  was  not  the  sort,  and  well  I  knew  it  from  the  first  day 
I  laid  eyes  on  her,  that  her  hand  would  never  rock  the  cradle.  There 
was  the  madness  out  and  out. 

'So  here  was  I,  pulling  and  hauling,  coaxing  him  to  stop  at  home, 
and  hiding  whatever  little  thing  was  to  be  done  till  evening  the  way 
his  hands  would  not  be  idle.  But  he  had  no  heart  in  the  work,  only 
listening,  always  listening,  or  climbing  the  cnuceen1  to  see  would 
he  catch  a  glimpse  of  her  coming  or  going.  And  oh,  Mary,  the 
heavy  sigh  he'd  give  when  his  bit  of  supper  was  over  and  I  bolting 
the  door  for  the  night,  and  he  with  the  long  hours  of  darkness  for- 
ninst  him — my  heart  was  broken,  thinking  of  it.  It  was  the  madness, 
you  see.  It  was  on  him.  He  could  hardly  sleep  or  eat,  and  at  night  I 
would  hear  him,  turning  and  groaning  as  loud  as  the  sea  on  the  rocks. 

Tt  was  then  when  the  sleep  was  a  fever  to  him  that  he  took  to 
walking  in  the  night.  I  remember  well  the  first  night  I  heard  him 
lift  the  latch.  I  put  on  my  few  things  and  went  out  after  him.  It  was 
standing  here  I  heard  his  feet  on  the  stile.  I  went  back  and  latched 
the  door  and  hurried  after  him.  What  else  could  I  do,  and  this  place 
terrible  after  the  fall  of  night  with  rocks  and  hills  and  water  and 
streams,  and  he,  poor  soul,  blinded  with  the  dint  of  sleep.  He  trav- 
elled the  road  apace,  and  then  took  to  the  hills,  and  I  followed  him 
with  my  legs  all  torn  with  briers  and  furze.  It  was  over  by  the  doc- 
tor's house  beyond  that  he'  gave  up.  He  turned  to  me  then  the  way  a 
little  child  that  is  running  away  turns  and  clings  to  your  knees;  he 


THE   BRIDAL   NIGHT  409 

turned  on  me  and  said,  "Mother,  we'll  go  home  now.  It  was  the  bad 
day  for  you  ever  you  brought  me  into  the  world."  And  as  the  day 
was  breaking  I  got  him  back  to  bed  and  covered  him  up  to  sleep. 

l  was  hoping  in  time  he  would  wear  himself  out,  but  it  was  worse 
he  was  getting.  I  was  a  strong  woman  then,  a  mayen-strong  woman. 
I  could  cart  a  load  of  seaweed  or  dig  a  field  with  any  man,  but  the 
night  walking  broke  me.  I  knelt  one  night  before  the  Blessed  Vir- 
gin and  I  prayed  whatever  was  to  happen,  it  would  happen  while 
the  light  of  life  was  in  me,  the  way  I  would  not  be  leaving  him  lone- 
some like  that  in  a  wild  place. 

'And  it  happened  the  way  I  prayed.  Blessed  be  God,  he  woke  that 
night  or  the  next  night  on  me  and  he  roaring.  I  went  in  to  him  but  I 
could  not  hold  him.  He  had  the  strength  of  five  men.  So  I  went  out 
and  locked  the  door  behind  me.  It  was  down  the  hill  I  faced  in  the 
starlight  to  the  little  house  above  the  cove.  The  Donoghues  came 
with  me:  I  will  not  belie  them;  they  were  line  powerful  men  and 
good  neighbours.  The  father  and  the  two  sons  came  with  me 
and  brought  the  rope  from  the  boats.  It  was  a  hard  struggle  they 
had  of  it  and  a  long  time  before  they  got  him  on  the  floor,  and  a 
longer  time  before  they  got  the  ropes  on  him.  And  when  they  had 
liim  tied  they  put  him  back  into  bed  for  me,  and  I  covered  him  up, 
nice  and  decent,  and  put  a  hot  stone  to  his  feet  to  take  the  chill  of 
the  cold  floor  off  him. 

'Sean  Donoghue  spent  the  night  sitting  beside  the  fire  with  me, 
and  in  the  morning  he  sent  one  of  the  boys  off  for  the  doctor.  Then 
Denis  called  me  in  his  own  voice  and  I  went  in  to  him.  Sean  Don- 
oghue came  with  me.  "Mother,"  says  Denis,  "will  you  leave  me  this 
way  against  the  time  they  come  for  me?"  I  hadn't  the  heart.  God 
knows  I  hadn't.  "Don't  do  it  Peg,"  says  Sean.  "If  'twas  a  hard  job 
trussing  him  before,  it  will  be  harder  the  next  time  and  I  won't  an- 
swer for  it." 

'  "You're  a  kind  neighbour,  Sean,"  says  I,  "and  I  would  never 
make  little  of  you,  but  he  is  the  only  son  I  ever  reared  and  I'd  sooner 
he'd  kill  me  now  than  to  shame  him  at  the  last." 

'So  I  loosened  the  ropes  on  him  and  he  lay  there  very  quiet  all  day 
without  breaking  his  fast.  Coming  on  to  evening  he  asked  me  for 
the  sup  of  tea  and  he  drank  it,  and  soon  after  the  doctor  and  an- 
other man  came  in  the  car.  They  said  a  few  words  to  Denis  but  he 
made  them  no  answer,  and  the  doctor  gave  me  the  bit  of  writing. 
"It  will  be  tomorrow  before  they  come  for  him,"  says  he,  "and  'tisn't 


410  FRANK   O'CONNOR 

right  for  you  to  be  alone  in  the  house  with  the  man."  But  I  said  I 
would  stop  with  him  and  Sean  Donoghue  said  the  same. 

'When  darkness  came  on  there  was  a  little  bit  of  a  wind  blew  up 
from  the  sea  and  Denis  began  to  rave  to  himself,  and  it  was  her  name 
he  was  calling  all  the  time.  "Winnie,"  that  was  her  name,  and  it  was 
the  first  time  I  heard  it  spoken.  "Who  is  that  he  is  calling?"  says 
Sean.  "It  is  the  schoolmistress,"  says  I,  "for  though  I  do  not  rec- 
ognise the  name,  I  know  'tis  no  one  else  he  would  be  asking  for."" 
"That  is  a  bad  sign,"  says  Sean.  "He  will  get  worse  as  the  night 
goes  on  and  the  wind  rises.  T would  be  better  for  me  to  go  down 
and  get  the  boys  to  put  the  ropes  on  him  again  while  he's  quiet."" 
And  it  was  then  something  struck  me  and  I  said,  "Maybe  if  she  came 
to  him  herself  for  a  minute  he  would  be  quiet  after."  "We  can  try  it 
anyway,"  says  Sean,  "and  if  the  girl  has  a  kind  heart  she  will  come."- 

It  was  Sean  that  went  up  for  her.  I  would  not  have  the  courage 
to  ask  her.  Her  little  house  is  there  on  the  edge  of  the  hill;  you  can 
see  it  as  you  go  back  the  road  with  the  bit  of  garden  before  it  the 
new  teacher  left  grow  wild.  And  it  was  a  true  word  Sean  said,  for 
'twas  worse  Denis  was  getting,  shouting  out  against  the  wind  for  us 
to  get  Winnie  for  him.  Sean  was  a  long  time  away,  or  maybe  I  felt  it 
long,  and  I  thought  it  might  be  the  way  she  was  afeared  to  come. 
There  are  many  like  that,  small  blame  to  them.  Then  I  heard  her  step 
I  knew  so  well  on  the  boreen  beside  the  house  and  I  ran  to  the  door, 
meaning  to  say  I  was  sorry  for  the  trouble  we  were  giving  her,  but 
when  I  opened  the  door  Denis  called  out  her  name  in  a  loud  voice, 
and  the  crying  fit  came  on  me,  thinking  how  light-hearted  we  used 
to  be  together. 

T  couldn't  help  it  and  she  pushed  in  past  me  into  the  bedroom 
with  her  face  as  white  as  that  wall.  The  candle  was  lighting  on  the 
dresser.  He  turned  to  her  roaring  with  the  mad  look  in  his  eyes,  and 
then  went  quiet  all  of  a  sudden,  seeing  her  like  that  overright  him 
with  her  hair  all  tumbled  in  the  wind.  I  was  coming  behind  her.  I 
heard  it.  He  put  up  his  two  poor  hands  and  the  red  mark  of  the 
ropes  on  his  wrists  and  whispered  to  her,  "Winnie,  asthore,1  isn't  it 
the  long  time  you  were  away  from  me?" 

'  "It  is,  Denis,  it  is  indeed,"  says  she,  "but  you  know  I  couldn't 
help  it." 

'  "Don't  leave  me  any  more  now,  Winnie,"  says  he,  and  then  he 
said  no  more,  only  the  two  eyes  lighting  out  on  her  as  she  sat  by  the 

1  My  treasure. 


THE   BRIDAL   NIGHT  411 

bed.  And  Sean  Donoghue  brought  in  the  little  stooleen  for  me,  and 
there  we  were,  the  three  of  us  talking,  and  Denis  paying  us  no  atten- 
tion, only  staring  at  her.  Then  all  at  once  he  got  excited  and  sat 
up  in  the  bed. 

'  "Winnie,"  says  he,  "lie  down  here  beside  me." 

'  "Oye,"  says  Sean,  humouring  him,  "don't  you  know  the  poor 
girl  is  played  out  after  her  day's  work?  She  must  go  home  to  bed." 

*  "No,  no,  no,"  says  Denis,  and  the  terrible  mad  light  in  his  eyes. 
"There  is  a  high  wind  blowing  and  'tis  no  night  for  one  like  her  to 
be  out.  Leave  her  sleep  here  beside  me.  Leave  her  creep  under  the 
clothes  to  me  the  way  I'll  keep  her  warm." 

'  "Oh,  oh,  oh,  oh,"  says  I,  "indeed  and  indeed,  Miss  Regan,  'tis  I'm 
sorry  for  bringing  you  here.  'Tisn't  my  son  is  talking  at  all  but  the 
madness  in  him.  I'll  go  now,"  says  I,  "and  bring  Sean's  boys  to  put 
the  ropes  on  him  again." 

'  "No,  Mrs.  Sullivan,"  says  she  in  a  quiet  voice,  "don't  do  that  at 
all.  I'll  stop  here  with  him  and  he'll  go  fast  asleep.  Won't  you, 
Denis?" 

'  "I  will,  I  will,"  says  he,  "but  come  under  the  clothes  to  me.  There 
does  a  terrible  draught  blow  under  that  door." 

'  "I  will  indeed,  Denis,"  says  she,  "if  you'll  promise  me  you'll  go  to 
sleep." 

'"Oye,  whisht,  girl!"  says  I.  "'Tis  you  that's  mad.  While  you're 
here  you're  in  my  charge,  and  how  would  I  answer  to  your  father  if 
you  stopped  here  by  yourself?" 

'  "Never  mind  about  me,  Mrs.  Sullivan,"  she  said.  "I'm  not  a  bit 
in  dread  of  Denis.  I  promise  you  there  will  no  harm  come  to  me. 
You  and  Mr.  Donoghue  can  sit  outside  in  the  kitchen  and  I'll  be  all 
right  here." 

'She  had  a  worried  look,  but  there  was  something  about  her  there 
was  no  mistaking.  I  wouldn't  take  it  on  myself  to  cross  the  girl.  We 
went  out  to  the  kitchen,  Sean  and  myself,  and  we  heard  every  whis- 
per that  passed  between  them.  She  got  into  the  bed  beside  him:  I 
heard  her.  He  was  whispering  into  her  ear  the  sort  of  foolish  things 
boys  do  be  saying  at  that  age,  and  then  we  heard  no  more,  only  the 
pair  of  them  breathing.  I  went  to  the  room  door  and  looked  in.  He 
was  lying  with  his  arm  about  her  and  his  head  on  her  bosom,  sleep- 
ing like  a  child,  sleeping  like  he  slept  in  his  good  days  with  no 
worry  at  all  on  his  poor  face.  She  did  not  look  at  me  and  I  did  not 
speak  to  her.  My  heart  was  too  full.  God  help  us,  it  was  an  old  song 


412  FRANK   O'CONNOR 

of  my  father's  that  was  going  through  my  head :  "Lonely  Rock  is  the 
one  wife  my  children  will  know." 

'Later  on  the  candle  went  out  and  I  did  not  light  another.  I  wasn't 
a  bit  afraid  of  her  then.  The  storm  blew  up  and  he  slept  through  it 
all,  breathing  nice  and  even.  When  it  was  light  I  made  a  cup  of  tea 
for  her  and  beckoned  her  from  the  room  door.  She  loosened  his 
hold  and  slipped  out  of  bed.  Then  he  stirred  and  opened  his  eyes. 

'  "Winnie,"  says  he,  "where  are  you  going?" 

'  "I'm  going  to  work,  Denis,"  says  she.  "Don't  you  know  I  must 
be  at  the  school  early?" 

'  "But  you'll  come  back  to  me  tonight,  Winnie?"  says  he. 

*  "I  will,  Denis,"  says  she.  "I'll  come  back,  never  fear." 

'And  he  turned  on  his  side  and  went  fast  asleep  again. 

'When  she  walked  into  the  kitchen  I  went  on  my  two  knees  before 
her  and  kissed  her  hands.  I  did  so.  There  would  no  words  come  to 
me,  and  we  sat  there,  the  three  of  us,  over  our  tea,  and  I  declare 
for  the  time  being  I  felt  'twas  nearly  worth  it  all,  all  the  troubles  of 
his  birth  and  rearing  and  all  the  lonesome  years  ahead. 

Tt  was  a  great  ease  to  us.  Poor  Denis  never  stirred,  and  when  the 
police  came  he  went  along  with  them  without  commotion  or  hand- 
cuffs or  anything  that  would  shame  him  and  all  the  words  he  said  to 
me  was,  "Mother,  tell  Winnie  I'll  be  expecting  her." 

'And  isn't  it  a  strange  and  wonderful  thing?  From  that  day  to  the 
day  she  left  us  there  did  no  one  speak  a  bad  word  about  what  she 
did,  and  the  people  couldn't  do  enough  for  her.  Isn't  it  a  strange 
thing,  and  the  world  as  wicked  as  it  is,  that  no  one  would  say  the  bad 
word  about  her?' 

Darkness  had  fallen  over  the  Atlantic,  blank  grey  to  its  farthest 
reaches. 


MICHAEL     MCLAVERTY 

Six  Weeks  On  and  Two  Ashore1 

In  the  early  hours  of  the  night  it  had  rained  and  the  iron  gate 
that  led  to  the  lightkeepers'  houses  had  rattled  loose  in  the  wind, 
and  as  it  cringed  and  banged  it  disturbed  Mrs.  O'Brien's  spaniel 
where  he  lay  on  a  mat  in  the  dark  draughty  hallway.  Time  and 
again  he  gave  a  muffled  growl,  padded  about  the  hall,  and  scratched 
at  the  door.  His  uneasiness  and  the  noise  of  the  wind  had  wakened 
Mrs.  O'Brien  in  the  room  above  him,  and  she  lay  in  bed  wondering 
if  she  should  go  down  and  let  him  into  the  warm  comfort  of  the 
kitchen.  Beside  her  her  husband  was  asleep,  snoring  loudly,  unaware 
of  her  wakefulness  or  of  the  windows  shaking  in  their  heavy  frames. 
The  rain  rattled  like  hailstones  against  the  panes  and  raced  in  a 
flood  into  the  zinc  tank  at  the  side  of  the  house.  God  in  Heaven, 
how  anybody  could  sleep  through  that,  she  said — it  was  enough  to 
waken  the  dead  and  there  he  was  deep  asleep  as  if  it  were  a  calm 
summer  night.  What  kind  of  a  man  was  he  at  all!  You'd  think  he'd 
be  worrying  about  his  journey  to  the  Rock  in  the  morning  and  his 
long  six  weeks  away  from  her.  He  was  getting  old — there  was  no 
mistake  about  that.  She  touched  his  feet — they  were  cold,  as  cold  as 
a  stone  you'd  find  on  a  wintry  beach. 

The  dog  growled  again,  and  throwing  back  the  bedclothes  she  got 
up  and  groped  on  the  table  for  the  matchbox.  She  struck  one  match 
but  it  was  a  dead  one,  and  she  clicked  her  tongue  in  disapproval.  She 
was  never  done  telling  Tom  not  to  be  putting  his  spent  matches 
back  into  the  box  but  he  never  heeded  her.  It  was  tidy  he  told  her; 
it  was  exasperating  if  she  knew  anything.  She  struck  three  before 
coming  upon  a  good  one,  and  in  the  spurt  of  flame  she  glanced  at 
the  alarm-clock  and  saw  that  it  was  two  hours  after  midnight.  She 
slipped  downstairs,  lit  the  lamp,  and  let  the  dog  into  the  kitchen. 
She  patted  his  head  and  he  jumped  on  the  sofa,  thumped  it  loudly 
with  his  tail  and  curled  up  on  a  cushion.  On  the  floor  Tom's  hampers 
lay  ready  for  the  morning  when  the  boatmen  would  come  to  row 
him  out  to  the  lighthouse  to  relieve  young  Frank  Coady.  She  looked 
at  the  hampers  with  sharp  calculation,  wondering  if  she  had  packed 
everything  he  needed.  She  was  always  sure  to  forget  something — 

1  From  The  Game  Cock  and  Other  Stories,  London,  1949.  First  published  in  Irish  Writing, 
(Cork),  No.  4,  1948. 

413 


414  MICHAEL   MCLAVERTY 

boot  polish  or  a  pullover  or  a  corkscrew  or  soap — and  he  was  al- 
ways sure  to  cast  it  up  to  her  as  soon  as  he  stepped  ashore  for  his  two 
weeks  leave.  She  could  never  remember  a  time  when  he  arrived 
back  without  some  complaint  or  other.  But  this  time  she  was  sure 
she  had  forgotten  nothing  for  she  had  made  a  list  and  ticked  each 
item  off  as  she  packed  them  into  the  cases.  Yes,  he  wouldn't  be  able 
to  launch  any  of  his  ill-humour  on  her  this  time! 

She  quenched  the  lamp,  and  returning  to  her  room  she  stood  at 
the  window  for  a  moment  and  saw  the  lighthouse  beam  shine  on  the 
clouds  and  sweep  through  the  fine  wire  of  falling  rain.  Tom  was 
still  asleep,  heedless  of  his  coming  sojourn  on  that  windy  stub  of 
rock.  But  maybe  if  the  wind  would  hold  during  the  night  the  boat- 
men would  be  unable  to  row  him  out  in  the  morning.  But  even  that 
would  be  no  comfort — waiting,  and  waiting,  and  watching  the  boat- 
men sheltering  all  day  in  the  lea  of  the  boathouse  expecting  the  sea 
to  settle.  It'd  be  better,  after  all,  that  they'd  be  able  to  take  him.  She 
got  into  bed  and  turned  her  back  to  him,  and  as  she  listened  to  the 
rain  she  thought  of  how  it  would  wash  the  muddy  paw-marks  from 
the  cement  paths  and  save  her  the  trouble  of  getting  down  on  her 
hands  and  knees  in  the  morning. 

She  awoke  without  aid  of  the  alarm-clock,  and  from  her  bed  she 
saw  the  washed  blue  of  the  sky,  and  in  the  stillness  heard  the  hollow 
tumult  of  the  distracted  sea.  He'd  have  to  go  out  this  morning — 
there  was  no  doubt  about  that!  But  God  grant  he'd  return  to  her  in 
better  form!  She  got  up  quietly,  and  buttoning  her  frock  at  the  win- 
dow she  gazed  down  at  the  Coady's  house.  The  door  was  open  to 
the  cold  sun  and  Delia  Coady  was  on  her  knees  freshly  whitening 
the  doorstep  that  had  been  streaked  in  the  night's  rain.  All  her  win- 
dows were  open,  the  curtains  bulging  in  the  uneasy  draught.  Delia 
raised  her  head  and  looked  round  but  Mrs.  O'Brien  withdrew  to 
the  edge  of  the  window  and  continued  to  watch  her.  Delia  was  sing- 
ing now  and  going  to  the  zinc  tank  at  the  side  of  the  house  for  a 
bucket  of  water. 

Tom  stirred  in  his  bed  and  threw  one  arm  across  the  pillow. 

'Do  you  hear  her?'  his  wife  said. 

'Hear  who?'  he  mumbled  crossly  and  pulled  the  clothes  up 
round  his  chest. 

'Delia  Coady  is  singing  like  a  lark/ 

"Well,  let  her  sing.  Isn't  it  a  free  country?' 


SIX   WEEKS    ON   AND   TWO   ASHORE  415 

The  alarm-clock  buzzed  on  the  table  and  she  let  it  whirl  out  to 
the  end  of  its  spring. 

Tom  raised  his  head  from  the  pillow  and  stared  at  her.  Tsn't  it  a 
great  wonder  you  didn't  switch  that  damned  thing  off  and  you  up 
before  it?' 

'You  better  get  up,  Tom.  Delia  will  think  you're  in  no  hurry  to 
take  her  Frank  off  the  Rock.' 

Til  go  when  it  suits  me — not  a  second  faster.  When  young  Coady's 
as  long  on  the  lights  as  I  am  he'll  not  hurry  much.  The  way  to  get 
on  in  my  job  is  to  go  slow,  slow,  slow — dead  slow,  snail  slow,  and  al- 
ways slow.  Do  you  remember  what  one  of  the  Commissioners  said  to 
me  on  the  East  Light  in  Rathlin?  "Mister  O'Brien,"  he  said, 
"there's  not  as  much  dust  in  the  whole  place  as  would  fill  a  match- 
box." And  the  secret  is — slow.' 

'No  Commissioner  would  use  such  a  word  as  "matchbox".' 

'And  do  you  think,  woman,  that  I'm  making  up  that  story?  What 
would  you  have  him  say?'  and  he  affected  a  mincing  feminine  ac- 
cent: '  "Lightkeeper  O'Brien,  there  is  not  as  much  elemental  dust 
in  the  hallowed  precincts  of  this  Lighthouse  as  would  fill  a  silver 
snuff-box."  Is  that  what  you  would  have  him  say?'  he  added  crossly. 

T  don't  think  he'd  pass  any  remark  about  dust  or  dirt.' 

'You  don't  think!  You  don't  think!  It's  a  wonder  you  didn't  think 
of  switching  off  the  damned  alarm-clock  and  you  knowing  I  hate 
the  sound  of  it.' 

She  said  nothing.  All  their  quarrels  seemed  to  arise  out  of  the  sim- 
plest remarks — one  remark  following  another,  spreading  out  and 
involving  them,  before  they  were  aware,  in  a  quarrel  of  cold  cruelty. 
She,  herself,  was  to  blame  for  many  of  them.  She  should  have  let 
him  have  his  little  story  of  'the  matchbox'.  What  on  earth  possessed 
her  to  turn  a  word  on  him  and  this  the  last  day  she'd  be  speaking  to 
him  for  six  long  weeks.  She  checked  a  long  sigh,  tidied  the  things  in 
the  room  quietly,  and  all  the  time  tried  to  find  something  to  say  that 
would  soften  her  last  words  to  him.  She  crossed  to  the  window  and 
put  her  hand  to  the  snib  to  lower  it.  Delia  was  still  singing  and 
standing  out  from  the  door  the  better  to  see  the  freshly  whitened 
window-sills  and  doorstep. 

'She  has  a  blue  frock  on,'  she  said  over  her  shoulder.  T  never  saw 
her  in  that  before;  it  fairly  becomes  her.' 

'Didn't  I  tell  you  she  was  married  in  blue!  It'll  be  the  same  frock/ 


416  MICHAEL   MCLAVERTY 

'She  has  a  nice  voice/ 

'I  think  you're  jealous  of  her/ 

'Hm,  I  used  to  be  able  to  sing  very  well  myself/ 

1  must  say  I  heard  precious  little  of  it/ 

'Maybe  you  didn't!  Maybe  you'd  be  interested  to  know  I  gave  that 
up  shortly  after  we  were  married — some  twelve  years  ago/ 

'And  whose  fault  was  that?' 

'Oh,  I  don't  know,'  she  said,  controlling  herself. 

He  pulled  the  clothes  over  his  shoulder  and  she  pleaded  with  him 
to  get  up  and  not  be  the  sort  that'd  deprive  another  man  of  even 
one  hour  of  his  leave  on  shore. 

'Is  it  Frank  Coady  I'd  hurry  for!  Not  me!  I'll  take  my  time.  I'm 
over  thirty  years  on  the  lights  and  he's  a  bare  half-dozen.  He  doesn't 
rush  much  if  he's  coming  out  to  relieve  me/ 

'You  can't  blame  him  and  he  not  long  married,'  she  said,  scarcely 
knowing  what  she  was  saying  as  she  spoke  into  the  mirror  and 
brushed  her  hair. 

'Last  time  he  came  out  to  relieve  me  I  was  waiting  for  the  boat  all 
morning  and  it  didn't  come  till  the  afternoon.  And  what  did  he  say 
as  he  stepped  ashore:  "God,  Tom,  I'm  sorry  the  boat's  late.  I  took  a 
hellish  pain  in  my  stomach  and  had  to  lie  down  for  a  couple  of 
hours."  That's  what  the  scamp  said  to  me  instead  of  offering  to  give 
me  an  extra  day  on  account  of  his  hellish  pains.  Well,  I  feel  tired 
this  morning  and  I'm  not  stirring  hand  or  foot  for  another  hour  at 
least!' 

She  turned  round  in  her  chair  from  the  mirror:  'I'm  beginning  to 
get  tired  of  that  word  "tired"  of  yours.  You  were  tired  last  night, 
tired  the  night  before — always  tired.  You've  said  nothing  else  since 
you  stepped  ashore  two  weeks  ago.  Tired! — it's  not  out  of  any  con- 
sideration you  show  me.  Going  off  to  the  pub  of  an  evening  and 
waiting  there  till  somebody  gives  you  a  lift  home.' 

'And  what  do  you  want  me  to  do?  What  do  you  want  off  me?' 

'Oh,  nothing,'  she  almost  cried,  'nothing!  I'm  used  to  loneliness 
now!  I'm  used  to  my  married  widowhood — in  my  marriage!  You 
won't  come  for  a  game  of  bridge  of  an  evening.  You're  tired — you 
always  say.  And  if  I  go  you  won't  wait  up  till  I  come  back.  You 
lower  the  lamp  and  go  to  your  bed.  Oh,  it's  no  wonder  my  hair  is  be- 
ginning to  turn  grey  at  the  temples/ 

'My  own  is  white!' 

'What  do  you  expect  and  you  nearing  sixty.' 


SIX   WEEKS   ON   AND   TWO   ASHORE  417 

'You're  lovely  company!' 

'Company!  Only  for  the  companionship  of  the  old  dog  I'd  go  out 
of  my  mind.' 

'If  you'd  go  out  of  this  room  I  might  think  of  getting  up.' 

'Oh,  if  I'd  thought  I  was  keeping  you  back  I'd  have  gone  long 
ago,'  and  she  lifted  the  alarm-clock,  the  box  of  matches,  and  has- 
tened from  the  room. 

He  stretched  his  arms  and  looked  at  the  glass  of  water  on  the  table. 
He'd  not  drink  that!  The  stale  taste  of  it  would  upset  him — and 
what  with  his  stomach  upset  and  his  mind  upset  he'd  be  in  a  nice  fix 
for  a  journey  on  the  sea.  He'd  smoke  a  cigarette — and  stretching  out 
to  the  chair  for  his  coat,  he  lit  one,  and  lay  back  on  the  pillows, 
frowning  now  and  then  at  the  cold  air  that  blew  through  the  open 
window.  He  could  hear  Delia  singing  and  he  wondered  if  Mag  sang 
when  she  was  expecting  him  home.  He  doubted  it!  She  was  more 
attached  to  that  damned  old  dog,  and  she  thought  nothing  of  walk- 
ing five  miles  of  an  evening  for  a  game  of  cards  and  bringing  the  old 
dog  with  her.  If  she  were  on  the  Rock  for  awhile  it'd  soon  tether  her, 
soon  take  the  skip  out  of  her  step.  Ah,  he  should  have  married 
somebody  less  flighty,  somebody  a  bit  older  and  settled,  somebody 
that'd  enjoy  a  glass  of  stout  with  you  of  an  evening  and  not  be 
wanting  to  drag  you  over  the  whole  blasted  country  in  search  of  a 
game  of  bridge. 

Downstairs  he  heard  Mag  opening  the  front  door  and  letting  out 
the  dog  for  a  run,  and  he  heard  her  speak  across  to  Delia  and  say 
how  glad  she  was  that  it  had  cleared  up  in  time  for  Frank's  home- 
coming. Hm,  he  thought,  she's  greatly  concerned  about  the  neigh- 
bours. He  looked  at  the  cigarette  in  his  hand,  and  from  the  bed  he 
tried  to  throw  it  through  the  open  window  but  it  struck  the  pane 
and  fell  on  the  floor,  and  he  had  to  get  up  and  stamp  on  the  lighted 
end. 

His  clothes  were  folded  neatly  for  him  on  the  edge  of  the  table: 
a  clean  white  shirt,  his  trousers  creased  and  the  brass  buttons  on  his 
jacket  brightly  polished.  He  pulled  on  the  cold,  starched  shirt  and 
gave  a  snort  of  contempt.  He  wished  she'd  be  less  particular — ye'd 
think  he  was  expecting  a  visit  from  the  Commissioners  on  the  Rock. 
Damn  the  thing  you  ever  saw  out  there  except  an  exhausted  pigeon 
or  a  dead  cormorant  that  you'd  have  to  kick  into  the  sea  to  keep 
the  blowfly  from  stalking  around  it.  It's  remarkable  the  nose  a  blow- 
fly has  for  decaying  flesh — flying  two  or  three  miles  out  to  sea  to  lay 


418  MICHAEL   MCLAVERTY 

its  eggs  on  a  dead  sea-bird.  Nature's  remarkable  when  you  come  to 
think  about  it — very  remarkable! 

Mag  tapped  the  stairs  with  her  knuckles  and  called  out  that  his 
breakfast  was  ready,  and  when  he  came  down,  she  glanced  at  him 
furtively,  trying  to  read  from  his  face  the  effect  of  her  remark  to  him 
about  his  white  hair.  If  only  she  could  tell  him  that  she  was  sorry. 
But  it  was  better  not  to — it  was  better  to  let  it  pass  and  speak  to  him 
as  if  nothing  had  happened. 

'Oh,  Tom,'  she  said  brightly,  'Delia  was  over  to  see  what  time  you 
expected  to  go/ 

'And  how  the  hell  do  I  know  at  what  time  I'm  expected  to  go.  I'll 
wait  till  the  boatmen  call — and  to  my  own  slow  and  unhurried  time.' 

'She  has  plenty  of  paint  on,  this  morning,'  she  added  to  restore 
ease. 

'Who  has?' 

'The  old  boat,  I  mean,'  she  lashed  back. 

There  it  was  again:  they  were  back  to  where  they  started  from — 
chilling  one  another  with  silent  hostility  or  with  words  that  would 
spurt  in  bitter  fury.  Oh,  she  thought,  if  only  he  had  shown  some  of 
his  old  love  for  her  during  the  past  two  weeks  they  would  not  now 
be  snapping  at  one  another,  and  there  would  be  ease  and  satisfac- 
tion and  longing  in  this  leave-taking. 

She  brought  a  hot  plate  of  rashers  and  eggs  from  the  range  and 
poured  out  tea  for  him. 

'Maybe,  Tom,  I  should  run  over  and  tell  Delia  you'll  be  ready  as 
soon  as  the  boatmen  arrive.  I'd  like  to  take  the  full  of  my  eyes  of 
her  place  as  she  does  of  ours.  I  always  think  there's  a  heavy  smell  of 
paraffin  in  her  kitchen.  Do  you  ever  find  it,  Tom?' 

'That  smell's  been  in  my  nose  ever  since  I  joined  the  Lights.  Do 
you  know  what  I'm  going  to  tell  you,'  and  he  raised  the  fork  in  his 
hand  as  she  sat  down  opposite  him.  'There's  nothing  as  penetrating 
and  as  permanent  as  the  smell  of  paraffin.  It's  remarkable.  It  seeps 
into  the  walls  and  it  would  ooze  out  again  through  two  coats  of  new 
paint.  It's  in  my  nose  and  I  wouldn't  know  the  differs  between  it 
and  the  smell  of  a  flower.' 

She  smiled,  for  she  at  that  moment  caught  sight  of  two  cases  of 
Guiness's  stout  on  the  floor  and  she  yearned  to  tell  him  jokingly  that 
he  had  a  fine  perfume  for  something  else.  But  she  repressed  that 
desire  and  turned  to  the  dog  as  he  laid  his  nose  on  her  lap.  She 
threw  him  a  few  scraps  from  the  table  and  he  snapped  at  them  greed- 


SIX   WEEKS   ON   AND   TWO   ASHORE  419 

ily.  She  fondled  his  head  and  toyed  with  one  of  his  ears,  turning  it 
inside  out. 

'It's  a  great  wonder  you  wouldn't  put  out  that  dog  and  let  me 
get  my  breakfast  in  some  sort  of  Christian  decency.  There's  a  bad 
smell  from  him/ 

'And  you  said  a  moment  ago  that  you  could  smell  nothing  only 
paraffin.' 

'Well,  I  get  the  smell  of  him — and  that's  saying  something.' 

At  that  moment  the  dog  walked  under  the  table  to  his  side  and  he 
made  a  kick  at  it  and  it  yelped  and  ran  under  the  sofa. 

'Come  here,  Brian,'  she  called  coaxingly,  and  the  dog  came  out 
and  walked  timorously  towards  her. 

'Either  he  goes  out  of  this  or  I  don't  finish  my  breakfast!' 

Without  a  word  she  got  up  and  let  the  dog  out. 

'Maybe  that'll  please  you,'  she  said,  coming  back  to  the  table. 
'Anything  I  love,  you  despise.' 

'That's  a  damned  lie!' 

'It's  true — and  because  you  thought  I  was  jealous  of  Delia  you 
praised  her.' 

'That's  another  infernal  lie!' 

'It's  too  true,  Tom.  Nothing  pleases  you — and  you  used  to  be  so 
different.  You  used  to  be  so  jolly — one  could  joke  and  laugh  with 
you.  But  of  late  you've  changed.' 

'It's  you  that's  changed!' 

She  took  her  handkerchief  and  blew  her  nose.  She  felt  the  tears 
rising  to  her  eyes  and  she  held  her  head,  trying  to  regain  her  self- 
control. 

A  shadow  passed  the  window.  There  was  a  knock  at  the  door  and 
she  opened  it  to  admit  three  of  the  boatmen. 

'We'd  like  to  catch  the  tide,  Mister  O'Brien,'  they  said,  and  lift- 
ing the  hampers  they  shuffled  out  of  the  house. 

Tom  finished  his  breakfast  slowly  and  went  upstairs.  He  came 
down  after  a  short  time,  dressed,  and  ready  for  the  road.  In  a  glance 
she  saw  that  he  hadn't  a  breast-pocket  handkerchief,  and  telling  him 
to  wait  for  a  minute  she  ran  upstairs  to  get  one,  and  coming  down 
again  she  found  he  was  gone.  She  hurried  after  him  and  overtook 
him  at  the  iron  gate. 

'Don't  keep  me  back,'  he  said,  'didn't  you  hear  as  well  as  I  did 
that  we've  to  catch  the  tide!'  But  she  held  him,  and  as  he  tried  to 
wrench  himself  free  she  folded  the  handkerchief  into  his  pocket. 


420  MICHAEL    MCLAVERTY 

'Tom,  don't  go  away  from  me  like  that!'  and  she  looked  up  at  him 
with  an  anxious  pleading  face. 

'You're  making  a  fine  laughing-stock  of  me!'  he  said,  and  pushing 
the  handkerchief  out  of  sight  into  his  pocket  he  walked  off. 

She  stood  at  the  gate  waiting  for  him  to  turn  and  wave  his  hand 
to  her  but  he  went  on  stolidly,  erect,  along  the  loose  sandy  road  to 
the  shore.  He  smoked  his  pipe,  the  road  sloping  before  him,  its  sand 
white  in  places  from  the  feet  of  the  boatmen  and  dark  with  rain 
where  it  was  untrodden. 

The  men  were  already  in  the  boat,  baling  out  the  night's  rain- 
water, and  as  Tom  picked  his  steps  over  the  piles  of  slabby  wrack 
on  the  shore  they  kept  calling  out  to  him  to  be  careful.  They  assisted 
him  into  the  boat  and  he  sat  in  the  stern,  his  legs  apart,  and  his 
arms  dangling  between  his  knees.  The  boatmen  spat  on  their 
hands,  gripped  the  oars,  and  in  a  few  minutes  were  out  from  the 
shelter  of  the  cove  and  saw  ahead  of  them  the  black  rock  with  its 
stub  of  a  lighthouse  like  a  brooding  sea-bird.  The  men  rowed  with 
quick,  confident  strokes,  and  the  boat  rose  and  fell,  cutting  swathes 
on  the  green  sward  of  the  sea. 

'Take  your  time,'  Tom  said,  'take  your  time.  You're  not  paid  for 
sweating  yourselves.  We'll  be  there  soon  enough.' 

They  said  nothing,  and  as  they  came  nearer  to  the  rock  they  saw 
the  white  path  curving  from  the  top  to  the  water's  edge  and  saw 
the  waves  jabbling  and  shouldering  one  another  in  mad  confusion. 
They  dipped  their  oars  now  with  short,  snappy  strokes,  their  eyes  on 
the  three  lightkeepers  who  awaited  them. 

'Ye'll  have  to  jump  for  it,  Mister  O'Brien,  when  we  give  the 
word.  We'll  get  the  cases  landed  first,'  and  while  one  held  off  the 
boat  with  a  boat  hook,  two  stood  at  the  stern  with  a  case  waiting 
their  chance  to  hoist  it  on  to  the  out-stretched  hands  of  those  on 
shore.  When  the  cases  were  roped  and  landed  Frank  Coady  jumped 
and  alighting  on  the  gunwale  he  balanced  himself  on  one 
leg  as  lightly  as  a  ballet  dancer.  'The  fairy  godmother!'  he  said,  and 
folding  his  arms  he  spun  round  on  his  toe  with  emphatic  dainti- 
ness, and  then  bowing  he  kissed  his  fingers  to  those  on  shore. 

Tom  O'Brien  lumbered  up  to  him,  putting  his  pipe  in  his  pocket. 

'Now,  Tom,  my  lad,  let  me  give  you  a  hand,'  said  Coady,  stretch- 
ing out  his  hand  to  him. 

'Get  away  from  me,  you  bloody  fool!'  said  O'Brien,  steadying  one 
foot  on  the  gunwale. 


SIX   WEEKS   ON   AND   TWO   ASHORE  421 

'Be  careful  now,  Mister  O'Brien,  be  careful!'  the  boatmen 
shouted.  "Wait  till  that  big  fellow  passes.  Take  him  on  the  rise!' 

But  O'Brien  wasn't  listening  to  them.  He  took  his  leap  on  the 
descent  of  the  wave,  missed  the  path,  and  was  all  but  disappearing 
into  the  sea  when  the  lightkeepers  gripped  him  and  hauled  him 
ashore. 

Tm  all  right!  I'm  all  right!'  he  said,  as  they  laughed  at  his  soaked 
trousers,  the  knee-cap  cut  and  the  blood  oozing  out  of  it. 

'Are  you  O.K.,  Tom?'  shouted  Coady  from  the  boat. 

'Ah,  go  to  hell,  you!'  said  O'Brien. 

'He's  a  cranky  oul  divil,'  Coady  said  to  the  boatmen  as  he  took  off 
his  coat  and  lifted  an  oar.  'Now  my  hearties  let  us  see  how  you 
can  make  her  leap!'  He  pulled  on  his  oar  with  all  his  strength:  'Up, 
my  hearty  fellows!  Up  she  jumps!  That's  the  way  to  make  her  skip! 
I'll  leave  a  pint  for  all  hands  in  the  pub!  A  pint  from  Frank  Coady!' 

Near  the  shore  he  turned  his  head  and  saw  his  wife  awaiting  him. 

'There  she  is,  my  hearty  men!  Knitting  and  waiting  for  her  dar- 
ling Frank!'  He  threw  down  his  oar  and  perched  himself  on  the  bow 
ready  to  jump  ashore. 

'Take  care  you  don't  go  like  O'Brien,'  they  laughed. 

'O'Brien's  as  stiff  as  a  man  on  stilts!  Here  she  goes!'  and  he  jumped 
lightly  on  to  the  rock  and  spinning  round  he  warded  off  the  boat  with 
his  foot. 

In  a  minute  he  was  in  his  wife's  arms,  and  linked  together  they 
went  off  slowly  along  the  sandy  road,  and  for  a  long  time  the  boat- 
men could  hear  him  laughing  and  they  knew  he  was  laughing  at 
O'Brien. 

Through  the  iron  gate  they  went  arm  in  arm.  Mag  O'Brien  was 
outside  her  house  with  the  dog  and  as  Frank  drew  near  he  told  her 
with  much  relish  how  Tom  had  cut  the  knee  of  his  trousers. 

'He  wasn't  hurt?'  she  said. 

'Hurt — not  a  bit!  He  strode  up  the  path  after  it  like  a  man  in 
training  for  the  half-mile.  The  only  thing  you  need  to  worry  about 
is  to  get  a  nice  patch.'  And  taking  Delia  by  the  hand  they  swung 
across  to  their  own  house,  stood  for  a  minute  admiring  the  whit- 
ened doorstep,  and  going  inside  they  closed  the  door. 

Mag  withdrew  and  sat  for  a  minute  at  her  own  window  that  over- 
looked their  house.  Her  head  ached,  and  she  thought  how  careless 
she  was  in  forgetting  to  pack  a  bandage  or  a  taste  of  iodine  that  he 
could  daub  on  his  bruised  knee.  One  can't  think  of  everything,  she 


422  MICHAEL   MCLAVERTY 

said,  and  she  laid  her  hands  on  her  lap  and  gazed  across  at  Coady's 
house  that  was  now  silent  and  still.  With  an  effort  she  got  to  her  feet 
and  withdrew  from  the  window,  and  taking  a  stick  she  called  her 
dog  and  set  off  through  the  iron  gate  and  away  to  the  shore  that  was 
nearest  to  the  rock. 

She  scanned  the  rock  and  the  white  path  down  to  the  sea.  If  only  he 
saw  her  and  came  out  on  the  parapet  as  he  used  to  do  and  signaled 
to  her  she'd  be  content — her  mind  would  be  eased.  She  sat  down  on 
a  green  slope  and  waited.  There  was  no  stir  about  the  rock,  only  a 
gull  or  two  tilting  and  gliding  above  the  sea.  She  got  up  and  waved 
her  hand.  The  dog  scratched  at  the  ground,  leapt  sideways,  im- 
patient to  be  off.  She  waved  again — still  there  was  no  sign  that  she 
was  being  seen.  She  turned  and  felt  the  soft  wind — it  was  light  and 
tired:  exhausted  after  its  rampage.  She  stretched  herself  and  stood 
facing  it  but  it  was  too  weak  even  to  shake  her  hair.  If  only  it  were 
strong,  blowing  against  her  with  force  she  would  delight  in  it.  But 
there  was  no  strength  in  it — it  was  indolent  and  inert,  as  tired  as  an 
old  man.  She  looked  once  more  at  the  Rock,  and  seeing  a  black 
whorl  of  smoke  rising  from  it  she  knew  that  it  was  Tom  putting  on 
a  good  fire.  He  would  take  a  book  now,  or  a  bottle  of  Guinness  and 
his  pipe,  and  after  that  he  would  close  his  eyes  and  sleep. 

The  dog  barked  and  ran  up  the  slope  after  a  rabbit.  She  followed 
after  him  and  looking  to  the  right  she  saw  the  iron  gate  and  the 
clump  of  houses  she  had  just  left.  There  was  nothing  there  but  si- 
lence and  sunlight,  and  behind  her  the  stir  of  the  cold  sea. 


FRANCIS     STUART 

The  Varied  Shapes  of  Violence1 

A  couple  of  weeks  later  Ezra  was  sitting  with  Kavanagh  in  the 
parlour  above  the  fish-shop.  It  was  Kavanagh's  first  visit  to  Alta- 
mont  since  the  week-end  of  the  picnic,  and  they  were  drink- 
ing Guinness  while  Annie  prepared  a  fish  supper  in  the  small 
kitchen.  She  was  no  longer  working  for  Kavanagh  in  his  shop.  The 
sergeant  had  spoken  to  her  about  the  scandal  of  her  relationship  to 
her  employer  and  had  wanted  to  send  her  as  maid  to  a  family  in 
another  town.  But  she  had  run  round  to  Father  Mellowes.  She  had 
arrived  one  morning  in  her  Sunday  clothes  and  sat  down  heavily  on 
the  sofa. 

'Don't  send  me  out  of  the  town/  she  had  said.  'All  my  friends  are 
here/ 

Father  Mellowes  did  not  know  what  she  was  talking  about.  And 
when  she  realised  that,  she  did  not  say  anything  about  her  inter- 
view with  the  sergeant.  A  look  of  complete  innocence  came  into 
her  violet  eyes  that  had  the  freshness  of  flowers  in  her  plump, 
freckled  face. 

'I  lost  my  job/  she  said. 

I'm  sorry  for  that.  It's  a  pity  losing  a  good  job/  said  Father  Mel- 
lowes. He  knew  nothing  of  the  scandal.  He  heard  very  little  of  the 
town  gossip. 

'It's  not  that/  she  answered.  She  wasn't  sure  how  much  he  knew 
about  her.  But  when  he  waited  she  added:  'I  was  used  to  him.' 

'You  mean  as  an  employer?'  asked  Father  Mellowes. 

'As  a  man,  Father.  That's  what  I  mean.' 

'You  were  living  together?'  he  asked. 

'That's  so/  she  said. 

'Ah,  my  poor  child/  said  the  priest,  his  big  face  tilted  down  at 
her,  regarding  her. 

'I'm  in  trouble/  she  went  on. 

'Ah,  little  one,  you're  going  to  have  a  child,  is  that  it?  And  you've 
lost  your  job.  And  these  two  things  that  seem  like  the  worst  blows  to 
you  are  the  ways  that  our  Lord  shows  His  loving  care  for  you.  And 
was  that  the  reason  that  Mr.  Kavanagh  gave  you  notice?'  he  added. 

'No.  He  doesn't  know  about  that/ 


1  From  Redemption,  New  York,   1950. 

42? 


424  FRANCIS  .  STUART 

'And  I  suppose  if  you  told  him  he  wouldn't  marry  you?' 

'It  isn't  his,'  the  girl  said.  She  saw  that  she  could  confide  in  Father 
Mellowes.  She  had  an  instinct  that  there  were  depths  in  him  in 
which  all  her  worries  and  burdens  could  be  swallowed  up. 

'There  was  another  man,  then?'  he  asked  her. 

'Yes.' 

'Wait  a  minute.  We'll  have  a  cup  of  tea,'  the  priest  said.  He  went 
out  on  to  the  landing  and  called  down  to  Mrs.  Bamber  to  make 
them  a  pot  of  tea.  Annie  had  regarded  the  lithograph  of  St.  Fran- 
cis with  the  rays  from  the  crucified  Seraph  piercing  his  own  hands 
and  feet.  The  dead  white  rays,  the  crimson  wounds  and  the  blue- 
black,  stormy  sky  were  beautiful  to  her.  She  had  enjoyed  sitting 
there  drinking  the  hot,  sweet  tea  and  listening  to  Father  Mellowes. 
She  did  not  try  to  understand  what  he  was  saying  to  her.  Sin  and  re- 
pentance were  not  real  to  her.  The  lithograph  was  real,  and  the  large 
stuffed  fish  in  a  glass  case  in  the  window  of  Kavanagh's  shop.  Each 
meant  to  her  a  certain  atmosphere,  a  certain  kind  of  life,  the  life  of 
the  flesh  and  the  life  of  the  spirit  and  she  was  quite  ready  to  shift 
over  from  one  to  the  other.  The  priest  had  asked  her  a  question! 

'Eh?'  she  said,  starting. 

'Ah,  I'm  sorry.  You  were  thinking,'  he  said. 

'Oh,  don't  mind  me,  Father.  I'm  a  terror  for  manners.' 

'If  you'll  excuse  me  now,  Annie,  I've  got  to  go  into  the  town. 
There  are  plenty  of  books  there  if  you'd  care  to  read  till  I  come 
back  at  dinner-time.' 

'If  you've  any  mending  or  washing,  I'd  rather  do  that,  Father.' 

There  had  been  a  tap  on  the  door  and  Sergeant  Foley  had  come 
in  with  his  greyhound,  Rainbow  Cutlet,  covered  from  head  to  tail 
in  a  linen  coat  that  hung  down  on  each  side  to  the  ground.  The 
priest's  little  dog  hurled  himself  at  this  strange  intruder.  There  was  a 
melee  of  snarls  and  snapping  and  Annie  burst  out  laughing.  'The 
Cutlet,'  as  he  was  locally  called,  had  been  out  at  exercise,  the  day  of 
the  great  race  was  almost  at  hand,  and  the  sergeant  had  come  to  ask 
Father  Mellowes  if  he  might  use  the  sink  in  the  kitchen  in  which  to 
immerse  his  champion  in  a  mustard  bath,  as  the  one  at  the  bar- 
racks was  too  shallow. 

'You'll  find  the  very  thing  you  want  in  the  kitchen,  sergeant.  I've 
seen  Mrs.  Bamber  bathing  the  children  in  it;  and  Miss  Lee  here 
won't  mind  giving  you  a  hand,  will  you,  Annie?'  Father  Mellowes 
said. 


THE   VARIED   SHAPES   OF   VIOLENCE:  425 

She  did  not  mind.  She  had  no  resentment  against  the  sergeant. 

Kavanagh  was  now  repeating  this  story  to  Ezra.  He  had  heard  it 
all  from  Annie  when  she  had  come  secretly  to  the  flat  the  night  be- 
fore. She  was  now  temporarily  taken  on  by  Father  Mellowes  as  a 
kind  of  housekeeper  and  had  a  small  attic  room  at  Mrs.  Bamber's. 
But  she  had  not  told  Kavanagh  about  how  well  she  had  got  on  with 
the  sergeant.  Or  how,  after  they  had  dried  'The  Cutlet,'  she 
had  mended  the  dog's  coat  for  him  that  had  been  torn  by  the  teeth 
of  the  priest's  little  mongrel,  or  that  the  sergeant  had  asked  her  to 
meet  him  on  the  night  of  the  dog-races. 

'That's  freedom  for  you;  that's  democracy,'  Kavanagh  was  saying. 
'The  girl  can't  sleep  where  she  likes  and  I  can't  spend  a  week-end 
in  my  own  flat  with  one  of  my  own  employees.  But  I'm  not  going  to 
lie  down  and  let  them  walk  over  me.  I'll  raise  bloody  hell  in  this  gim- 
crack  town  before  I'll  let  them  go  sneaking  round  taking  my  em- 
ployees away  from  me.' 

Ezra  drank  the  Guinness  and  listened.  The  crude,  vulgar  energy 
of  Kavanagh,  his  anger  and  his  lust  gave  him  a  reality.  To  be  in  a 
room  with  most  people  was  like  being  in  a  room  with  a  ghost.  So 
many  people  here  struck  Ezra  as  ghostly,  their  coming  and  going, 
their  talk  and  expressions  were  ghostly  and  when  he  looked  at  them 
he  saw  nothing,  or  he  saw  something  else.  People  who  were  not  in 
pain,  not  in  love,  not  angry,  not  in  the  grip  of  desire  or  of  some  secret 
vision;  they  were  ghosts.  He  couldn't  talk  to  them  because  the  breath 
of  his  mouth  would  blow  through  them  without  touching  them.  But 
Kavanagh  was  ready  to  be  touched  and  to  be  kindled,  his  little  an- 
ger kindled  by  Ezra's  greater  anger.  He  seemed  to  sense  Ezra's 
greater  anger  and  to  bow  to  it. 

T  could  bring  business  to  this  town.  I  could  bring  a  bit  of  life  to  it,' 
Kavanagh  said.  'But  they'd  sooner  go  to  pot  in  their  own  petty  way. 
They're  scared  of  people  like  us,  that's  what.  They're  scared.  And 
they'll  be  more  scared  when  I'm  done  with  them.  And  do  you  know 
what,  if  this  town's  finished,  it's  not  the  only  one.  There's  many 
other  towns  all  over  the  country  that  are  going  the  same  way.  I've 
got  branches  in  eight  or  ten  other  places  and  I  know  what's  going 
on.  I  can  smell  it  in  the  air.  The  good  times  are  over  for  them,  the 
times  when  you  could  look  out  of  your  hotel  window  on  a  fine  Sun- 
day morning  and  see  the  townspeople  strolling  up  the  main  street  to 
Mass  and  pull  down  the  blind  again  and  go  back  to  bed  and  have 
another  snooze  in  peace  and  security,  knowing  that  the  day  was  long 


426  FRANCIS    STUART 

and  there  was  a  well-stocked  larder  downstairs  and  good  company  in 
the  private  bar,  quiet  knowledgeable  fellows  who  could  tell  you  the 
winners  of  the  big  races  for  the  past  twenty  years  and  more.  But 
now  it's  another  story.  No  one  remembers  anything  beyond  the  week 
before  last,  and  if  you  sleep  late  they  come  rattling  at  the  door  want- 
ing to  do  out  the  room.  There's  no  ease  and  quiet.  Everyone's  nerv- 
ous, with  one  eye  on  the  next  day  or  the  next  meal  or  the  next  drink. 
It's  as  if  they  were  afraid  that  their  new  gimcrack  houses  and  cars 
and  wireless  sets  were  going  to  go  phut!  Perhaps  it's  another  war 
they're  afraid  of,  one  that  they  wouldn't  be  able  to  sit  out  on  Guin- 
ness and  rashers  as  pretty  as  they  did  the  last.  What  say,  Arrigho,  is 
there  going  to  be  another  bust-up?' 

'Well,  it  can't  last  for  ever,'  said  Ezra.  'No  world  has  ever  lasted 
very  long.  They  all  go  down  one  after  another  and  there's  not  much 
left,  only  a  fish  or  a  deer  scratched  on  the  wall  of  a  cave,  or  some 
marble  statues  without  arms,  or  a  bit  of  red  brick  wall  in  a  jungle 
somewhere.  Perhaps  our  going  down  has  begun  and  perhaps  noth- 
ing can  stop  it.  Sometimes  it  looks  like  that  all  right;  you  get  the 
smell  of  it,  like  you  said,  in  the  air.' 

'You're  right.  We're  going  down/  Kavanagh  repeated,  leaning 
heavily  over  the  table,  looking  into  the  black  beer.  'This  town's  go- 
ing down  and  it's  the  same  tale  in  the  others.  And  there's  no  use 
them  blaming  it  on  people  like  me.  "Kavanagh's  one  of  those  fel- 
lows who  make  trouble  in  the  town  and  bring  down  its  morals." 
That's  what  the  sergeant  said  to  Annie.  Hey,  Annie,'  he  called. 
'What  was  it  the  sergeant  said?' 

Annie  put  her  head  in  the  door.  She  wore  a  dirty  white  apron 
and  had  rolled  up  her  sleeves.  She  smiled  her  slight,  placid  smile. 

1  disremember  exactly,  Mr.  Kavanagh.  It  doesn't  signify.  I'm 
here,  anyhow,  aren't  I?' 

'You're  here,  my  girl,  and  they  couldn't  stop  you,'  repeated  Kav- 
anagh, leaning  far  over  the  table  and  laughing  into  his  glass  of  black 
stout.  'And  I'm  going  to  let  you  into  a  secret,  Arrigho;  not  now, 
though,  wait  till  we've  had  a  bit  of  supper.  I'm  going  to  throw  a 
stone  into  their  duck-pond  that'll  make  a  walloping  big  splash, 
me  boy.' 

Ezra  remembered  how  he  had  written  home  from  the  foreign  city, 
the  bombed,  dying  city,  to  his  wife  during  the  war  about  Margareta. 
He  had  written  about  bringing  her  back  with  him  if  they  were  alive 


THE   VARIED    SHAPES    OF   VIOLENCE  427 

after  this  particular  catastrophe  passed  over.  He  had  thought  in  his 
innocence  that  there  would  be  no  difficulties,  that  she  would  have 
found  shelter  and  refuge  with  his  own  people.  His  wife  had  under- 
stood and  agreed.  But  later,  after  she  had  spoken  to  some  of  the 
officials  whose  permission  would  have  had  to  be  had,  she  had  writ- 
ten that  it  was  impossible.  She  had  spoken  to  their  local  priest.  He 
had  discussed  with  Ezra's  wife  the  implications  of  letting  Ezra  bring 
Margareta  back  into  their  fold.  And  they  had  confused  her  with 
their  complacent,  duck-pond  arguments.  But  in  the  end  they  had 
overcome  her  and  she  had  written  to  him  that  she  could  not  have 
Margareta.  But  by  then  Margareta  was  lying  with  a  huge  pile  of 
rubble  on  her  heart.  And  he  could  not  go  home.  He  felt  no  bitterness 
against  his  wife.  On  the  contrary,  she  had,  alone  and  with  nothing 
but  the  words  of  his  letters  to  help  her,  stood  out  as  long  as  she 
could.  As  his  wife,  she  was  powerless;  the  family  love,  the  duck-pond 
love  was  too  much  for  her.  And  now  he  could  not  go  back.  She  did 
not  even  know  that  he  was  in  Ireland.  She  was  all  right.  She  had 
the  house  and  enough  money,  but  he  could  not  go  back  and  live 
with  her. 

'Let's  have  a  bite  to  eat.  What  say?'  Kavanagh  said. 

Annie  brought  in  a  huge  plate  of  fish  and  some  more  bottles 
of  Guinness.  She  had  tidied  herself  up  and  dusted  her  plump,  freck- 
led face  with  powder. 

'Have  a  drink  with  us,  Annie,'  Kavanagh  said  to  her. 

'You  know  I  don't  take  anything,  Mr.  Kavanagh/ 

'Very  well.  Don't  call  me  Mr.  Kavanagh,  but.  That's  not  called 
for  among  friends.  Have  some  port.  Have  something.' 

'All  right.  I  don't  mind  a  glass  of  port/ 

She  was  glad  to  be  back  here  in  the  cosy,  familiar  atmosphere. 
She  had  often  felt  homesick  in  the  past  week  for  the  little  flat  above 
the  shop  with  its  smell  of  stale,  spilt  stout  and  fish. 

The  three  of  them  were  sitting  at  the  table;  Kavanagh  pulled 
Annie's  chair  nearer  his  own  so  that  she  was  within  handreach  of 
him.  He  wanted  to  touch  her,  to  lay  his  big  hand  on  her.  Ezra  felt 
himself  floating  on  a  sea  of  black  Guinness,  lit  by  the  violet  eyes  of 
Annie  and  scented  by  the  greasy  slab  of  fried  fish  crumbling  open 
in  white  flakes  on  his  plate.  Kavanagh  was  opposite  him,  a  big, 
smouldering  shadow  in  the  dusk  of  the  room,  leaning  over  the 
white  table-cloth  with  an  old-fashioned  watch-chain  strung  across. 


428  FRANCIS    STUART 

his  broad,  waistcoated  torso.  Ezra  saw  the  glint  of  the  gold  chain  as 
Kavanagh  leant  forward,  overshadowing  the  bottles  and  Annie, 
brooding  over  them  with  his  smouldering  fire  engendered  by 
the  black  stout,  anger,  lust,  and  some  confused  vision  of  revenging 
himself. 

He  began  to  speak  in  a  low  voice  to  Annie.  She  listened  with  her 
blank  passivity,  only  turning  her  head  slightly  away  from  his  hot, 
beery  breath. 

'Ah,'  she  said.  'I  could  never  abide  the  sight  of  blood.' 

'A  drop  of  blood,  that's  nothing,  girl.'  He  turned  to  Ezra.  'Did 
you  ever  remark  the  holy  picture  that  Father  Mellowes  has  in  his 
room?' 

'I  dread  cutting  myself,'  said  Annie. 

'Tcha!  What  a  baby!  Just  a  pin-prick  somewhere  where  it  won't 
be  noticed.  Here  I'll  show  you.  Give  us  a  bit  of  light.' 

She  switched  on  the  light  and  came  back  to  the  table.  Kavanagh 
took  a  needle  from  inside  the  lapel  of  his  coat.  He  pulled  up  her 
dress  over  her  knees  and  jabbed  in  the  needle.  She  gave  a  little  gasp 
and  a  drop  of  ruby  blood  appeared  on  her  bluish  white  thigh. 

She  liked  things  to  happen,  even  the  sting  of  the  needle;  and  she 
liked  the  thought  of  the  bleeding  picture.  She  liked  the  smell  of 
drink  on  the  breath  of  men.  Heavy  and  passive  in  herself,  she  was 
like  a  sponge  that  soaked  up  sensation,  excitement.  But  she  pre- 
tended to  be  afraid  of  him  and  quickly  pulled  down  her  dress  with  a 
little  squeal.  He  began  to  try  to  mollify  her  with  pats  and  caresses, 
calling  her  a  baby  and  holding  the  glass  of  port  to  her  lips  that  were 
greasy  from  the  fried  fish.  She  drank  the  sweet  wine  passively,  do- 
ing nothing  beyond  making  the  lazy  movement  of  swallowing  now 
and  then,  her  head  bent  back  and  resting  in  the  big  palm  of 
Kavanagh's  hand.  When  he  had  emptied  the  glass  into  her  mouth, 
he  put  it  down  and  leant  over  her,  looking  at  her. 

'Don't  mind  any  of  them,  Annie,'  Kavanagh  said.  He  turned  to 
Ezra.  'The  damned  busybodies  came  round  and  spoke  to  her.  They 
told  her  that  by  staying  here  in  the  flat  with  me  over  the  week-ends 
she  was  causing  a  scandal  in  a  respectable  town.'  He  could  not  get 
over  it.  He  went  on  brooding  on  it. 

Ezra  had  begun  by  listening,  amused  and  detached.  The  quarrel 
between  the  toping  fishmonger  and  the  town  had  no  real  concern 
for  him.  But  gradually  he  began  to  speak  too,  to  be  caught  into  the 
controversy  in  spite  of  himself.  Whether  Kavanagh  followed  him  or 


THE   VARIED   SHAPES    OF   VIOLENCE  429 

not,  he  did  not  care.  He  spoke  for  the  first  time  in  all  these  years  of 
the  shape  of  the  cataclysm  through  which  he  had  been. 

'When  I  walk  down  the  main  street  of  this  town,'  he  said,  'past  the 
small  busy  shops  and  the  pubs  with  Guard  Higgins  on  point  duty 
at  the  corner  and  Father  Mellowes  coming  down  the  steps  from  the 
church  after  hearing  confessions,  for  a  moment  I  too  breathe  a 
breath  of  sweetness.  I  am  tempted  to  believe  that  this  is  peace  and 
righteousness  and  that  they're  justified  in  protecting  it.  But  it's  no 
good.  Because  I  know  where  this  street  leads  and  where  all  streets 
lead.  Your  sergeant  and  the  others  can't  see  beyond  the  end  of 
their  street.  The  words  that  they  speak  in  this  street  would  be  mean- 
ingless in  the  other  street,  in  the  street  in  which  I  was/ 

'What  street  was  that?'  asked  Kavanagh,  fondling  Annie  with  one 
hand  while  he  held  his  glass  of  Guinness  in  the  other. 

'The  street  of  a  great  city.  It  had  been  a  street  like  the  others, 
with  tailors'  dummies  draped  in  the  newest  fashions  in  the  shop- 
windows  and  restaurants  with  table  lamps  on  the  white  cloths 
and  a  big,  ugly  church  on  the  square  at  one  end  and  hotels  where 
they  changed  the  towels  in  your  bedroom  every  morning,  and  if  a 
child  fell  and  cut  its  knee  on  the  pavement  there  was  a  great  to-do 
and  its  mummy  brought  out  her  hanky  and  dabbed  away  the  blood.' 

'Ha!'  said  Kavanagh  blankly.  He  did  not  know  what  Ezra  was  get- 
ting at. 

'As  long  as  there  were  clean  handkerchiefs  to  dab  at  scratched 
knees  and  glass  in  the  shop-windows,'  Ezra  went  on,  'the  same  ser- 
mons were  being  preached  in  the  church  at  the  corner  as  Father 
Mellowes  preaches  here. 

T  knew  that  street  as  I  know  this  street.  I  had  been  into  each 
restaurant  along  it  at  one  time  or  other.  I  had  sat  in  the  summer 
nights  on  the  terraces  of  the  cafes  and  seen  the  lights  shining  on  to 
the  leaves  of  the  lime  trees  planted  along  it  when  it  was  still  secure 
and  sheltered  between  its  shops  and  houses,  leading  to  all  the  other 
streets  of  the  world.  But  slowly  there  was  a  change  along  it.  Not 
only  that  I  was  now  alone  in  it,  or  that  the  bombs  had  ground 
down  many  of  the  houses  to  piles  of  rubble.  A  street  between  walls 
of  rubble  is  still  a  street  and  the  shape  of  the  ruins  becomes  as  fa- 
miliar and  homely  as  the  shape  of  the  houses  was.  But  now  I  began 
to  know  where  it  led. 

'The  street  had  its  own  air,  its  own  atmosphere.  Even  when  the 
houses    collapsed    they    lay    in    their    own    dust,    in    their    own 


430  FRANCIS    STUART 

light.  Everything  moves  or  stands  in  its  own  light  or  shadow,  I  sup- 
pose, a  tree,  a  street,  a  rock,  and  the  earth  itself,  and  the  final  vio- 
lation is  the  stripping  from  a  thing  of  its  own  air.  That  is 
what  happens  to  you  when  you're  arrested;  the  little  protective 
sanctum  around  you  is  violated — strange  hands  feel  in  your  pockets, 
strange  voices  strip  away  the  protective  layer  of  space  around  you. 

'I  knew  this  first  when  the  shells  began  to  fall  into  the  street. 
Shells  are  different  from  bombs.  Shells  are  the  first  touch  of  the 
others,  the  sign  of  their  presence;  shells  begin  to  strip  away  the  fa- 
miliar air  and  bring  the  first  breath  of  the  unknown  darkness  with 
them. 

It  was  the  growing  strangeness  of  the  street  that  is  what  I  remem- 
ber of  those  days.  I  felt  it  turning  into  something  different.  Along 
part  of  it  a  column  of  tanks  and  heavy  guns  had  been  abandoned — 
for  want  of  petrol,  I  suppose.  I  came  on  them  there  one  evening, 
grey  hulks  of  steel,  like  strange  monsters  washed  up  on  a  shore  dur- 
ing a  night  of  storm.  I  wasn't  allowed  in  the  streets  because  I  was  a 
foreigner,  but  I  came  out  at  night  to  look  around.  I  came  up  out  of 
the  cellar  where  we  were  waiting,  and  each  evening  there  was  a  new 
darkness  in  the  street.  It  wasn't  the  same  darkness  through  which 
the  lights  from  the  shops  had  shone  and  the  buses  rattled  or  even 
the  darkness  in  which  the  houses  had  burnt  after  the  raids.  The 
street  was  being  stripped  of  its  own  light  and  its  own  darkness  and 
it  lay  there  like  the  dead  lie,  without  the  halo  of  their  own  beings 
around  them  any  more,  exposed. 

T  didn't  know  what  was  coming.  There  were  no  more  newspapers 
and  no  wireless.  There  were  only  rumours,  words  in  the  darkness, 
names.  But  there  were  no  names  for  the  unknown  shape;  when  they 
had  spoken  the  strange  names  of  Russian  generals  and  Rus- 
sian armies,  there  was  still  something  that  had  not  been  given  a 
name,  the  thing  that  would  appear  in  the  street  at  a  certain  coming 
hour  of  the  day  or  of  the  night.  There  was  another  name 
being  spoken  like  an  incantation  against  the  unknown  horror:  the 
army  Wenck.  In  the  cellars  under  the  street  and  along  the  street  at 
night  there  was  this  name  spoken,  in  a  question,  an  assertion  or  in 
irony.  The  army  Wenck.  That  was  the  name  of  all  that  was  familiar, 
the  known,  the  past,  fighting  its  way  back  to  the  city  and  the  street. 
The  army  Wenck  was  the  name  of  all  that  was  known  and  familiar, 
the  familiar  pain,  the  familiar  ruins  and  the  familiar  hunger  and  the 


THE   VARIED   SHAPES   OF   VIOLENCE  431 

small  familiar  joys  and  securities  still  left  amid  the  ruins  and 
the  hunger.  And  the  other  names  were  the  names  of  death,  of  the 
angel  of  death,  of  Ashtoreth,  and  they  had  the  sound  of  the  last  trum- 
pet. The  horribly  strange  sound  of  something  announcing  the  un- 
known doom. 

'And  in  the  street  at  night  there  were  always  new  signs  and  new 
portents.  No  one  knew  what  they  meant,  except  that  they  meant 
the  end  coming  nearer.  There  were  the  German  lieutenant  and  ser- 
geant hanging  under  the  bridge  of  the  elevated  railway  with  a 
placard  with  words  on  it  that  confirmed  the  hopelessness  of  those 
who  read  it  furtively  as  they  passed.  "Found  without  arms  in  face 
of  the  enemy." 

Tn  face  of  the  enemy.  Those  too  were  words  that  were  mysterious 
and  horrible.  The  street  was  now  in  face  of  the  enemy!  The  street 
that  had  led  to  a  bridge  across  the  railway  and  beyond  that  to  a 
leafy  avenue  that  in  its  turn  went  out  to  a  suburb  now  led  only  into 
the  jaws  of  the  enemy. 

T  as  a  neutral  might  not  have  any  enemy,  but  I  had  lived  for  five 
years  in  the  street;  through  the  war  I  had  lived  there  and  its  smells 
and  its  ruins  were  familiar  to  me  and  I  too  was  touched  by  the  pass- 
ing of  that  world.  For  a  street  is  a  world,  with  its  air  and  its  shape 
and  its  order.  And  it  is  a  great  shock,  no  matter  how  detached  one 
may  be,  to  see  the  actual  hour  in  which  order  passes  away  and 
chaos  appears.  It  is  a  shock  in  the  depth  of  the  heart.  The  heart 
cannot  absorb  the  shapelessness  of  chaos,  it  is  shocked,  it  is  like  a 
great  scandal  to  it.' 

'That  was  what  he  said  to  Annie,'  Kavanagh  interrupted.  'That 
we  were  causing  a  scandal  in  this  town/ 

'There  were  a  couple  of  days  and  nights  when  I  didn't  leave  the 
cellar,'  Ezra  went  on,  'because  we  heard  that  foreign  workers 
had  been  shot  for  being  out  in  the  street.  All  the  people  of  the  house 
were  living  in  the  cellars,  Germans  and  foreigners  together.  The 
cellar  had  become  a  thoroughfare;  holes  had  been  broken  through 
into  the  cellars  of  the  next-door  houses  and  it  was  possible  to  go 
from  street  to  street  through  the  cellars.  I  stayed  two  or  three  days 
in  the  cellar  with  the  others  from  the  house,  sometimes  in  the  dark 
and  sometimes  with  a  bit  of  candle  burning.  There  in  the  cellar 
there  were  no  more  pretences;  I  had  a  glimpse  of  how  a  tribe  must 
live  in  their  huts  in  the  depth  of  an  African  forest.  All  the  escapes, 


432  FRANCIS    STUART 

the  cinemas  and  radios  and  books,  were  gone  and  privacy  was  gone; 
no  one  lived  any  more  in  the  little  civilised  isolation  of  his  own 
room  and  his  own  possessions.  There  was  no  more  dressing  up  or 
washing.  If  we  stank,  we  stank.  At  least  it  was  the  stench  of  life  and 
not  the  other  stench  that  was  beginning  to  drift  through  the  streets. 

'We  were  a  little  tribe  in  the  midst  of  the  forest  on  the  edge  of 
death.  There  were  no  more  differences  between  us  except  what 
could  be  seen  or  felt.  We  were  not  Germans  or  Poles  or  Irish  or  rail- 
way officials  or  dressmakers  or  schoolteachers,  but  we  were  still  men 
and  women  because  the  man  and  woman  difference  is  a  thing  of 
shape  and  sensation  and  shape  and  sensation  were  left.  Indeed, 
there  was  only  shape  and  sensation.  The  shape  of  the  shadows  in  the 
dark  cellar,  the  new  shape  of  time,  flowing  slower  and  slower,  like  a 
river  at  its  mouth  beginning  to  meet  the  pressure  of  the  sea,  and  the 
shape  of  our  own  cramped  bodies.  The  underground  darkness  was 
full  of  sensation  as  the  day  or  the  night  up  above  in  the  world 
seldom  is.  The  two  dry  slices  of  black  bread  which  we  could  eat 
once  every  twelve  hours  were  a  sensation,  they  were  sweeter  than 
manna,  and  the  quivering  of  the  darkness  from  the  bombs  and  the 
shower  of  shells  that  they  called  Stalin  organs  was  a  sensation  in 
the  spine  and  in  the  guts,  like  a  tree  whose  roots  are  shaken  by  a 
storm.  And  when  we  prayed  it  was  a  different  praying  to  most  of 
the  church  praying;  it  was  a  turning  of  our  dirty,  pale  faces  to  the 
face  of  darkness  beyond  the  cellar-darkness;  it  was  the  feeling  in  the 
trembling  of  the  cellar  and  the  falling  of  the  plaster,  the  passing 
of  the  angel  of  death  and  the  angel  of  the  end.  And  if  a  man  took 
the  hand  of  the  girl  huddled  next  to  him  it  was  another  touch  from 
the  old  touching,  the  old  mechanical  caressing. 

'But  even  down  there  we  could  sense  the  progress  of  the  battle. 

'Soldiers  came  through,  passing  down  the  street  through  the 
cellars,  their  dull-painted,  steel  helmets  like  dark  hoods  over  their 
faces  in  the  shine  of  their  electric  torches.  And  they  were  ques- 
tioned, questioned.  And  the  same  blank  look  in  reply,  tinged  with 
impatience,  and  then  the  long,  empty,  noisy  hours  again  with  no 
one  coming  through,  with  whispers  and  only  the  minute  break  of 
going  out  into  the  passage  to  make  water. 

'It  was  about  the  third  night  that  I  went  up  and  out  into  the  street 
again.  Now  it  had  changed  again.  In  two  days  there  was  a  change 
that  normally  would  have  taken  centuries.  There  were  corpses  ly- 


THE   VARIED   SHAPES   OF    VIOLENCE  433 

ing  in  the  street  and  no  one  paying  any  attention  to  them.  Even  two 
days  before,  when  someone  was  killed  they  were  picked  up  and 
carried  away.  Death  had  still  been  an  accident,  a  part  of  disorder  to 
be  quickly  tidied  up.  Now  there  was  only  disorder;  chaos  and  death 
were  beginning  to  be  in  the  street,  not  as  something  accidental,  but 
as  part  of  the  street.  There  were  women  with  basins  and  buckets  and 
a  few  men  with  knives  cutting  up  a  dead  horse  in  the  middle  of 
the  street.  I  went  back  to  the  cellar  and  got  a  basin  and  a  knife 
and  hacked  away  between  the  white  bones,  filling  the  basin  with 
slabs  of  dark  flesh.  That  was  the  treasure  of  those  nights,  the  dark 
slabs  of  flesh,  and  it  was  lusted  after  more  than  the  flesh  of  women. 
There  were  many  living  women  and  girls  in  the  streets  and  only  a 
few  horses.  There  was  a  crowd  round  the  horses  with  buckets  and 
basins,  and  those  who  had  not  basins  took  the  wet  chunks  of  meat 
in  their  arms,  hugging  them  to  their  breasts.  In  the  morning  the 
dead  were  still  lying  in  the  street  in  the  full  light  of  day  and  I  stood 
and  looked  at  a  group  of  four  or  five  bodies  in  their  dusty  sleep,  a 
child  and  young  woman  and  an  old  woman,  drinking  in  this  new 
shape,  the  shape  of  death  that  was  strange  and  shocking  and  fasci- 
nating at  first,  as  the  shape  of  a  woman's  naked  body  at  a  window 
had  been  to  me  long  ago  as  a  boy.  But  as  I  walked  down  the  street  I 
had  learnt  this  new  shape,  death-in-the-street,  the  dead  sharing  the 
street  with  the  living  and  making  again  something  different  out  of 
the  street,  signing  it  with  their  dusty,  still  and  huddled  sign. 

We  feasted  on  the  meat  in  the  candle-lit  cellar  and  the  girl  next 
me  kissed  my  hands  and  pressed  them  to  her  breast  in  rapture  at  sati- 
ating her  hunger. 

That  night  I  was  out  in  the  street  again.  There  were  a  lot  of 
shells  falling,  and  while  I  was  sheltering  under  the  remains  of  the 
bridge  of  the  elevated  railway  I  got  a  piece  of  shrapnel  through 
my  shoulder.  There  was  a  dressing-station  further  up  the  street  and 
although  it  was  a  military  station  I  went  there  with  a  sergeant  who 
had  been  wounded  in  the  leg  and,  as  I  was  helping  him,  they  let  us 
both  in.  They  couldn't  do  much  for  us;  there  were  no  bandages,  no 
antiseptics,  only  the  candlelit  rooms  with  the  shadowy,  blanket-cov- 
ered forms.  There  was  only  one  sister,  and  as  she  was  washing  the 
sergeant's  leg  wound  he  talked  to  her.  He  was  a  small,  thick-set  little 
fellow  of  forty-five  and  he  had  a  way  with  him,  an  air  of  knowing  a 
great  deal  of  what  was  going  on. 


434  FRANCIS    STUART 

1  "What  are  they  holding  out  for?  Do  you  really  expect  the  army 
Wenck  to  break  through  from  the  West?"  the  sister  asked.  She 
could  hardly  hold  the  basin  of  water  for  tiredness. 

'The  sergeant  shrugged  his  shoulders  and  smiled  his  weary,  know- 
ing smile. 

'  "We  heard  the  capitulation  would  come  to-night,"  said  the 
nurse.  "They  are  said  to  be  discussing  terms." 

'  "Terms!"  said  the  little  sergeant  with  his  thin  smile.  "All  I  know 
is  they  have  thrown  in  the  Norwegian  S.S.  Division,  all  big,  young 
fellows  of  twenty  or  so.  I  saw  some  of  them  in  the  Friedrichstrasse 
area." 

'  "There's  no  sense  in  it;  no  sense,"  said  the  girl,  slopping  water 
from  the  basin  to  the  floor  in  her  weariness. 

'Afterwards  the  sergeant  and  I  sat  in  the  hall.  The  outer  door 
was  ajar  and  the  street  was  just  beyond,  and  we  were  both  drawn  to- 
wards it,  not  wanting  to  be  far  from  it.  We  sat  in  the  hall  and 
through  the  door  came  the  night  air  from  the  street  with  the  smoky 
tang  that  had  been  in  it  for  weeks.  And  there  was  a  faint  smell  of 
excrement;  it  had  been  there,  too,  for  days,  like  the  scent  of  savoury, 
slightly  rotten  cooking,  and  I  did  not  know  whether  it  was  only  a 
memory  in  my  nose  lingering  from  the  cellar  or  whether  here,  too, 
there  was  no  sanitation.  Now  and  then  the  sergeant  asked  me  to 
go  to  the  door  and  have  a  look  out;  he  couldn't  move  so  easily  be- 
cause of  his  leg  wound. 

Tt  was  a  clear  night  with  a  waning  moon  and  I  could  see  along  the 
street.  The  smooth  black  surface  of  the  wide  street  gleamed  and  it 
seemed  very  quiet.  There  was  always  the  background  of  noise,  but 
that  we  were  used  to  and  there  were  no  new  noises  and  no  shells. 
Only  the  street  lying  empty  with  its  dark,  traffic-polished  sur- 
face leading  away  into  the  night.  Such  a  moment  of  quiet  there  had 
not  been  in  these  weeks,  and  I  stood  there  alone  and  came  to  myself 
as  I  had  not  in  all  that  time.  In  the  long  hours  in  the  cellar  I  had  only 
been  capable  of  waiting  with  the  others,  dreaming  of  food,  of  a 
bed,  waiting  for  the  hour  of  eating  the  two  slices  of  bread  or  the  two 
cold  potatoes,  drinking  in  every  scrap  of  rumour.  But  now  in  the 
street  outside  the  dressing-station  I  felt  a  change  in  myself.  I  had 
strength  again,  and  not  drifting  here  and  there  with  each  pang 
of  hunger,  each  wave  of  sleeplessness,  each  new  whispered  an- 
nouncement. It  was  as  if  I  had  got  strength  at  the  last  minute.  But  so 
it  is  with  me;  all  happens  to  me  at  the  last  minute. 


THE   VARIED    SHAPES   OF   VIOLENCE  435 

'When  I  came  back  the  sergeant  had  got  hold  of  an  old  civilian 
suit  and  was  putting  it  on,  slowly  drawing  the  trousers  on  over  his 
stiff  leg. 

'  "How's  it  look?"  he  asked. 

'  "Worn.  But  that  doesn't  matter  if  it  fits." 

'  "Not  the  suit,  man,  the  street." 

'  "It's  quiet,"  I  said.  "It's  quieter  than  it's  been  for  a  long  time." 

'He  was  taking  papers  and  things  out  of  the  pocket  of  his  uni- 
form, tearing  them  up,  tearing  up  his  soldiers'  soldbuch,  and  laying 
a  few  things  aside,  a  comb  and  some  money  and  a  small  tattered 
New  Testament.  There  was  an  envelope  stuck  in  it  as  a  marker  and 
he  opened  it  and  said  to  me:  "Do  you  know  that  all  this  was  proph- 
esied in  the  Bible?  Listen."  He  held  the  small  book  close  to  the 
hurricane  lamp  on  the  table  and  began  to  read:  "Then  he  said  unto 
them:  Nation  shall  rise  against  nation  and  kingdom  against  king- 
dom and  great  earthquakes  shall  be  in  divers  places,  and  famines 
and  pestilences;  and  fearful  sights  and  great  signs  shall  there 
be  from  heaven.  .  .  .  For  these  be  the  days  of  vengeance,  that  all 
things  which  are  written  may  be  fulfilled.  .  .  ." 

'And  these  words  were  themselves  a  sign  to  me,'  Ezra  went  on, 
'coming  in  and  hearing  these  words  I  knew  what  it  was  that  I  had 
seen  in  the  street/ 

'What  was  it?'  Kavanagh  asked.  Annie,  too,  was  listening  with  her 
big,  freckled  face  against  Kavanagh's  shoulder. 
'  T  had  seen  how  these  things  must  be  if  we  were  not  to  go  on 
swimming  round  our  duck-pond.  We  dare  not  be  given  too  much 
security.  As  soon  as  we  have  a  little  security,  we  settle  down  by  our 
duck-ponds,  and  it  doesn't  matter  whether  it's  a  religious  duck- 
pond,  a  cultural  duck-pond  or  an  economic  duck-pond.  It's  all 
the  same  old  mud.  The  little  duck-pond  writers,  the  duck-pond 
reformers,  and  the  little  white  duck-pond  God  with  its  neat  crown 
of  thorns.  That's  our  great  genius:  to  tame!  We  have  our  tame  God 
and  our  tame  art,  and  it  is  only  when  the  days  of  vengeance  come 
that  there's  a  flutter  around  the  pond.' 

'A  flutter  around  the  pond!'  repeated  Kavanagh  with  a  cackle. 
Ezra  looked  at  the  big,  slightly  bemused  face  with  a  momentary  dis- 
like. He  knowing  nothing  of  the  price  paid  in  horror,  in  starving 
and  sweating  and  bleeding,  had  no  call  to  use  the  words  that  Ezra 
might  use  without  offence. 

'After  the  days  of  vengeance  there  comes  a  new  breath.  Here  and 


436  FRANCIS    STUART 

there,  among  those  who  have  survived,  comes  a  new  vision,  further 
than  the  duck-pond  vision.  That's  the  only  hope  for  us  now:  a  new 
vision  and  a  new  god.  That's  what  I  saw  that  last  hour  before  the 
end,  with  the  wide,  empty  street  waiting  under  the  moon.  It  was  a 
strange  moon,  the  colour  of  flesh  bled  bluish-white.  And  then  I  went 
back  to  the  dressing-station  and  the  little  sergeant  was  reading  those 
words  out  of  the  book  he  had  come  across  emptying  out  his  uniform 
pockets:  "And  there  shall  be  signs  in  the  sun  and  in  the  moon  .  .  . 
and  upon  the  earth  distress  of  nations,  with  perplexity,  the  sea  and 
waves  roaring." ' 

Ezra  stopped  speaking  to  take  a  swill  of  the  black  stout.  By  now 
Kavanagh  was  slightly  drunk.  Not  really  drunk,  though,  be- 
cause what  Ezra  was  saying  kept  him  from  drifting  down  on  the 
dark  tide  of  Guinness  in  his  blood. 

'At  midnight  the  sergeant  and  I  were  still  sitting  in  the  hall  of  the 
flat  that  had  been  turned  into  a  hospital,'  Ezra  was  saying.  1  was 
thinking  of  going  back  to  the  cellar.  "Hold  on  a  bit,"  the  sergeant 
would  say.  "You've  got  all  night,  haven't  you?"  But  I  had  seen  the 
sign  in  the  moon  and  I  wanted  to  be  back  in  my  own  corner ' 

'What  sign  was  that?'  asked  Kavanagh. 

'That's  only  a  way  of  speaking.  It  was  a  sign  in  myself,'  Ezra 
said;  'the  sign  that  I  was  ripe  for  what  was  coming.  And  the  moment 
you  are  ripe  for  what  is  coming,  it  comes.  Death,  pain,  love,  what- 
ever it  may  be/ 

That's  a  queer  word,'  said  Kavanagh.  'What  about  all  the  others 
who  weren't  ripe,  as  you  call  it?' 

T  don't  know.  There  are  two  faces  to  reality,  and  I  have 
seen  them  both.  There  was  the  bloody  face  of  the  sister  as  I  saw  her 
a  little  later,  one  of  all  the  faces  of  the  raped,  the  dying,  the  horror- 
stricken  and  the  other  face,  the  face  of  "Not  a  sparrow  falls  without 

the  Father "  and  whoever  has  seen  these  two  faces  as  one  is 

finally  delivered  and  at  peace.  But  I  haven't.  And  now  I  never  shall. 

T  wanted  to  go  but  I  kept  staying  on  to  keep  the  sergeant  com- 
pany. We  had  been  talking  and  we  stopped  talking.  There  was  a 
new  sound  from  the  street,  a  soft,  even  sound  after  all  the  loud  and 
intermittent  sounds  of  the  time  before.  I  peered  out  from  behind 
the  door.  I  saw  dimly  a  column  of  men  pass  down  the  other  side  of 
the  street. 


THE   VARIED   SHAPES    OF   VIOLENCE  437 

'  "What  is  it?"  asked  the  sergeant.  I  didn't  know,  and  yet  I  knew. 
I  did  not  want  to  give  it  a  name.  To  name  the  hour  for  which  all  had 
been  waiting  in  fear  and  trembling. 

'  "'Well,  what  is  it,  man?" 

'"The  Russians,"  I  said. 

We  were  speaking  lower.  "Did  you  see  them?"  he  asked.  I 
thought  that  in  spite  of  all  his  air  of  knowingness  even  he  had  still  a 
hope  about  the  army  Wenck.  We  heard  more  of  them  passing  and 
then  the  door  was  pushed  open  and  some  of  them  came  in,  in  their 
baggy,  belted  uniforms.  They  had  come.  The  Apocalyptic  rider  on 
the  pale  horse  had  dismounted  and  come  through  the  door  into 
the  hall  and  gone  on  into  the  wards.  There  was  a  sentry  at  the 
door,  and  the  sergeant  and  I  went  back  into  the  ward,  where  a  Rus- 
sian colonel  was  standing  talking  in  German  to  the  chief  orderly 
and  a  soldier  with  a  tommy-gun  stood  just  behind  him.  Then  the 
officer  went  into  the  small  room  where  we  had  had  our  wounds 
dressed  by  the  sister,  and  the  soldier  stood  outside  the  closed  door. 
In  a  few  minutes  they  came  out  again  and  the  colonel  went  upstairs 
with  his  bodyguard  and  the  sister  went  about  her  duties,  silent.  I 
was  spoken  to  by  a  big,  slouching  fellow  in  German  and  I  showed 
my  passport  which,  being  printed  in  English,  French  and  Gaelic,  he 
could  not  read.  But  he  did  not  want  to  read  it.  That  was  the  first 
thing  I  learnt  about  these  Apocalyptic  hordes.  They  had  not  yet 
come  to  the  complete  faith  in  documents  and  documentation  that 
the  Germans  and  Americans  and  English  have.  He  looked  at  me  out 
of  his  small,  peasant  eyes  and  repeated  after  me,  "Irlander,"  and 
seemed  to  think  it  over  and  think  me  over.  He  handed  me  back  my 
papers  and  slouched  off  down  the  room,  the  gun  dangling  from  his 
big  hand,  stooping  over  a  mattress  now  and  then  as  the  fancy  took 
him  and  demanding  the  papers  of  the  man  lying  on  it,  but  then 
hardly  looking  at  them,  dangling  the  gun  and  kicking  the  straw  of 
the  mattress  with  his  big  boot. 

'The  colonel's  orderly  came  down  and  went  back  upstairs  with  the 
sister.  All  the  time  I  wanted  to  get  back  to  the  cellar.  My  few 
belongings  were  there.  I  felt  that  the  end  had  come  and  caught 
me  far  from  home. 

'  "Wait  a  bit,"  the  sergeant  told  me.  "Wait  an  hour  or  two  and  let 
things  settle  down."  I  would  have  been  still  waiting  if  I'd  waited  for 
that,'  Ezra  went  on. 


438  FRANCIS    STUART 

'An  hour  or  two,'  repeated  Kavanagh  in  his  own  slow  way,  wiping 
his  mouth.  'An  hour  or  two,  ha!' 

'The  little  sergeant  and  I  went  back  and  sat  in  the  hall.  "This  is 
the  best  place  to  be,  in  a  hospital,"  he  said. 

'The  long,  long  waiting  was  over;  the  end  had  come.  The  ser- 
geant had  heard  that  the  city  had  capitulated.  No  more  bombs 
would  fall,  no  more  shells;  the  rocking  of  the  earth  that  loosened  the 
roots  of  the  heart  in  your  breast  was  over;  the  earth  was  still.  I 
could  see  out  into  the  street  past  the  sentry  lounging  at  the  half- 
open  door  and  it  was  still.  But  it  was  not  the  beginning  of  peace. 
"There  was  silence  in  heaven  and  on  earth  for  the  space  of  half 
an  hour." 

'The  sister  came  downstairs.  Her  face  was  scratched  and  bitten 
and  bloody.  I  went  to  the  door  and  stood  outside  it,  looking  up  and 
down  the  street.  I  did  not  want  to  seem  to  be  in  a  hurry.  I  must 
move  like  these  men  moved,  easily,  slouching  without  haste.  There 
were  two  of  them  outside  the  door  talking  and  I  stood  beside  them.  I 
felt  the  breath  of  violence  in  which  we  stood  and  moved  and  had 
our  being.  The  former,  explosive  violence  had  passed  away  and 
there  was  this  new,  quieter,  more  intimate  violence  in  the  air  of 
the  street.  All  these  years  we  had  moved  in  and  breathed  the  air  of 
hatred,  of  violence  and  the  threat  of  violence.  Not  only  the  explosive 
violence,  the  violence  that  came  down  out  of  heaven,  but  the  other 
soft-footed,  official  violence.  I  knew  much  about  the  shape  of  vio- 
lence and  I  could  sniff  it  around  me,  in  all  its  different  shapes  and 
forms.  If  you  have  a  kind  of  quietness  and  suppleness  in  you  you 
can  often  slip  through  under  the  very  jaws  of  violence,  but  if  you 
haven't,  if  you're  nervous  and  excitable  and  if  your  movements 
of  body  and  of  soul  are  too  quick  or  too  set  in  one  direction,  then 
you're  lost  from  the  start.  I  had  lived  with  it,  in  a  city  where  all  the 
offices  in  all  the  official  buildings  were  ante-rooms  of  violence,  and, 
waiting  outside  them,  waiting  for  one's  turn,  however  quiet  you 
tried  to  be,  your  armpits  got  damp.  That  was  the  mechanical,  sta- 
tistical violence,  and  you  couldn't  escape  it  if,  because  of  your  pa- 
pers, you  came  into  one  of  the  doomed  categories.  That  was  the  vio- 
lence of  order,  the  terrible  statistical  violence  of  the  great  machine 
of  order  and  it  had  its  lair  in  every  street,  in  dusty  corridors  and 
offices  and  its  threat  was  in  every  ring  of  the  bell,  in  every  strange 
voice. 

In  the  street  as  long  as  I  had  lived  there  there  had  always  been  the 


THE   VARIED   SHAPES   OF   VIOLENCE  439 

unseen  presence  and  pressure  of  violence  like  an  invisible  hand  laid 
on  the  heart.  Even  in  my  room  it  was  there,  the  slight  pressure  always 
there,  subtly  altering  the  shape  of  everything,  squeezing  everything 
a  little  bit  smaller.  Just  as  long  before  I  had  sometimes  been  in  an- 
other great  city  and  I  had  lived  in  the  pressure  of  another  hand  laid 
on  me,  the  hand  of  sex.  Sex  was  then  the  great  mystery  for  me;  it 
was  in  the  belly,  in  the  house  and  in  the  streets.  And  later  in  this 
other  city  and  in  this  other  street  it  was  violence. 

'I  thought  about  this  as  I  stood  at  the  door  of  the  dressing-station 
and  tried  to  sense  the  new  violence  that  had  come  to  replace  the 
old.  And  I  felt  that  this  new  violence  was  not  so  statistical,  and 
you  might  escape  it  not  so  much  by  having  the  right  papers,  the  right 
signatures,  but  by  the  way  you  moved  and  looked,  by  keeping 
a  small  centre  of  quiet  in  you. 

'As  I  say,  I  know  all  about  violence  and  its  different  shapes.  I  have 
sat  waiting  in  corridors  with  violence  hidden  on  the  other  side  of  a 
door  and  known  it  there,  known  in  my  stomach  that  it  was  there, 
unseen,  and  waited,  gone  dead  and  numb  between  chest  and  belly 
with  the  touch  of  its  invisible  hand  in  my  guts.  You  get  so  that  you 
can  sniff  it  from  far  away,  when  it's  hidden  away  behind  doors  and 
walls.  You  can  walk  down  a  street  full  of  shops  and  traffic  and  the 
sun  shining  and  the  old  women  calling  the  latest  editions  of  the 
papers,  and  you  can  know  in  a  slight  sensation  below  the  ribs  that 
behind  all  this,  like  a  boy  who  has  wound  up  his  train  and  sits 
back  watching  it  go,  there  is  violence.  I  got  so  that  I  could  sense  it 
in  the  very  stone  of  the  houses,  in  the  reflection  of  the  windows. 
And  I  hadn't  completely  escaped  it,  either.  For  some  months 
I  had  been  locked  away  with  the  others,  though  later  I  had 
been  let  out  again  to  walk  in  the  street  or  sit  in  the  cafes  and  res- 
taurants, moving  in  the  pseudo-freedom  of  a  world  in  which 
everyone  is  numbered  and  registered  and  summoned  from  time  to 
time  into  one  of  the  ante-rooms  of  the  great  machine.  I  had  lived 
all  this  time  in  this  order  of  brooding,  hidden  violence  that  was 
broken  through  from  time  to  time  by  the  other  violence,  the  open 
violence  of  destruction.  It  had  a  different  face,  but  from  its 
mouth  came  the  same  breath  of  the  pit,  and  when  the  cellar  rocked 
you  knew  it  was  the  same  hand  that  rocked  it  as  the  cold  hand  that 
grabbed  you  in  the  guts  as  you  waited  for  your  turn  outside  one  of 
the  closed  doors  in  the  big  building  down  the  street. 

'And  to-night  the  hand  of  violence  had  another  grip.  So  far  I  had 


440  FRANCIS    STUART 

only  caught  a  glimpse  of  it  in  the  night  air  and  in  the  marks  of  its 
claws  on  the  face  of  the  nurse,  which  was  no  more  than  a  touch  in 
passing.  I  leant  up  against  the  door  lintel  and  smoked  my  cigarette 
to  the  end,  and  as  I  threw  the  butt  down  I  moved  off  into  the  street, 
trying  to  make  my  movements  quiet  and  familiar  as  I  think  I 
would  try  to  move  in  a  lion's  cage.  The  two  soldiers  stopped  talking 
together.  I  did  not  look  back,  but  strolled  on  very  slowly,  and  I 
heard  them  talking  again  and  at  that  moment  I  had  a  kind  of  love 
for  them,  because  they  had  left  me  alone. 

'I  walked  down  the  street.  It  had  changed  since  I  had  walked  up  it 
with  the  little  sergeant  limping  on  my  arm  some  hours  before. 
There  had  been  that  silence,  as  for  the  space  of  half  an  hour,  and 
in  that  space  the  last  wall  had  fallen  that  had  surrounded  it,  that 
had  made  it,  in  spite  of  all,  still  a  street  in  a  city  with  still  some  faint 
air  of  being  sheltered,  as  towns  and  cities  were  once  shelters.  But 
now  it  was  a  space  open  to  all  the  winds  that  blew. 

T  knew  this  even  more  certainly  when  I  reached  the  cellar.  It 
was  no  more  a  shelter.  It  was  a  ravaged  pit.  But  how  easily  and 
subtly  the  body  accepts  all  so  long  as  it  can  still  breathe  and  stretch 
itself  and  talk.  Some  get  over  it  in  talking  and  some  in  silence;  the 
ones  who  talk,  quicker.  The  girl  who  had  shared  my  corner  for  the 
last  weeks  showed  me  the  scratches  on  her  arm  and  began  to  talk 
to  me.  She  huddled  up  close  to  me  and  I  put  my  arm  around  her 
and  listened  to  the  quick,  warm  words  against  my  cheek.  They  had 
taken  her  and  raped  her  in  the  flat  above.  But  already  rape,  that  a 
few  hours  ago  had  the  shape  of  the  unknown  horror,  similar  to  the 
shape  of  death,  was  something  familiar,  a  thing  like  the  corpses  ly- 
ing in  the  street,  that  after  all  could  be  in  some  way  come  to  terms 
with,  and  turned  out  not  to  be  the  final  horror.  You  adapt  yourself 
to  it,  you  become  a  girl-who-has-been-raped.  You  pass  in  a  short 
time,  in  that  "space  of  half  an  hour,"  from  being  one  thing  to  being 
the  other.  As  the  street  did.  It  is  the  moment  of  passing  over,  of  giv- 
ing up  what  you  were,  and  knew  and  which  was  the  form  and  sign 
under  which  you  had  lived,  almost  the  you.  But  not  quite  the  you. 
Even  under  the  other  form,  the  new  raped  form  there  was  still  the 
you,  and  quite  quickly  it  conformed  itself  and  was  chattering,  making 
the  same  gestures,  pouring  out  tea  made  from  the  packet  the  soldier 
had  given.  But  the  hand  trembled.  She  spilled  some  tea  on  the  blan- 
ket that  she  had  pulled  over  us,  and  she  showed  me  her  bare  wrist. 
"They  are  taking  all  the  wrist  watches  and  jewellery,"  she  said. 


THE   VARIED    SHAPES    OF   VIOLENCE  441 

"Their  arms  are  covered  with  watches  to  the  elbow.  As  long 
as  I  don't  get  a  dose,"  she  went  on,  "I  don't  mind  getting  pregnant. 
I  can  cure  that,  but  I'm  afraid  of  getting  a  dose.  You're  lucky  your 
girl  is  lying  under  the  ruins,"  she  said.  "She's  better  off." 

'She  was  being  a  little  false,  a  little  sentimental.  I  knew  I  was 
not  lucky  and  that  I  would  never  be  lucky  again.  If  I  had  had  Mar- 
gareta  with  me  there  in  the  cellar,  then  I  would  have  been  lucky,  let 
her  have  been  twenty  times  raped,  let  her  be  scratched  and  bitten 
and  raped,  but  there  under  the  same  blanket,  pouring  the  tea,  or 
with  no  tea,  with  nothing,  then  I  would  have  known  the  unfath- 
omable gift  of  luck.  But  I  let  the  girl  go  on,  chattering  in  her  quick 
whisper  with  my  arm  around  her,  her  breath  on  my  cheek:  "I  know 
of  a  place  in  the  ruins,"  she  said,  "and  I'm  going  out  there  to  hide 
as  soon  as  it  begins  to  get  light.  I'm  too  sore  to  stay  here  and  have 
that  done  to  me  again." 

'In  the  next  days  I  got  to  know  what  rape  looks  like  as  you  can't 
know  it  from  hearsay,  as  you  can't  know  what  raids  are  and  death- 
from-explosion  is  from  hearsay.  Violence  never  takes  the  shape  that 
you  imagine  it  will.  The  first  rape  I  saw  was  the  body  of  a  young  girl 
on  the  floor  of  the  cellar,  spread-eagled,  not  like  a  girl  any  more, 
like  something  nailed  to  a  wall,  a  skin  or  a  rug  or  some  rags  with  the 
bare  legs  sticking  out  of  them.  But  not  a  girl's  body;  and  what 
they  were  doing  to  her  wasn't  like  what  you  had  thought  it  would 
be  like.  It  was  like  some  mechanical  operation,  pumping  up  a 
tyre  or  like  the  drilling  that  goes  on  in  the  street,  with  a  little  group 
of  workmen  standing  round;  only  all  went  silently,  quite  silent  and 
against  flesh  instead  of  concrete/ 

Kavanagh  was  listening,  rapt  in  the  dark  miasma  produced  by 
the  Guinness  against  which  appeared  the  varying  face  of  violence 
that  Ezra  had  conjured  up  for  him  into  the  quiet  parlour.  One 
heavy  arm  lay  across  the  table-cloth,  which  was  already  stained  with 
stout  and  grease,  and  the  other  arm  encircled  Annie.  When  Ezra 
paused  to  drink  from  his  glass  or  light  a  cigarette  or  go  to  the  lava- 
tory, Kavanagh  leant  over  the  girl,  whispering.  He  was  stirred  by 
this  tale  of  Nineveh.  Why  had  his  path  not  led  down  that  street? 
Why  was  he  condemned  to  walk  down  these  mean  streets  of 
Altamont  and  the  other  towns  where  he  was  frustrated  and  dimin- 
ished? He  should  have  been  there,  where  Ezra  had  been,  there  at 
the  beginning  of  the  end.  He  saw  himself  there  in  the  foreign  dark- 
ness, among  ruins.  He  did  not  know  what  ruins  were,  what  a  razed 


442  FRANCIS    STUART 

street  looked  like.  He  knew  he  had  only  his  small  vision  of  dark- 
ness; the  constricted  night  in  which  he  sometimes  moved  through 
the  back  streets  of  Dublin,  visiting  mean  houses  in  the  rain,  leaving 
again  later  in  the  deserted  night,  limping  home  past  the  rows  of  shut- 
tered shops  with  the  thirst  in  his  bowels  damped  but  unslaked.  He 
turned  savagely  to  Annie:  'You  know  what  you  have  to  do,  eh? 
Take  a  needle  and  prick  yourself  like  I  showed  you — or  if  you  can't 
manage  to  draw  enough  blood  like  that,  take  a  safety-razor  blade. 
And  then  with  a  match  or  a  pencil  dab  a  drop  or  two  of  the  blood 
on  the  holy  picture,  see?  On  the  hands  and  the  feet  of  St.  Francis, 
that's  the  ticket.  That's  all.  Then  wait,  lie  low.  I'll  do  the  rest.  All 
you've  got  to  think  of  is  to  keep  the  blood  on  the  holy  picture. 
There'll  be  a  to-do,  there'll  be  a  holy,  bloody  fiesta  when  the  word 
gets  round,  as  it  will,  first  through  the  urchins  who  are  always  in 
and  out  of  the  Reverend  Father's  room.  As  soon  as  he  washes  off  the 
blood,  you  wait  till  the  stage  is  clear  and  on  you  dab  it  again.' 

He  got  up  and  limped  into  the  bathroom  to  fetch  a  blade. 

'Ah,  me  bould  Moss  Kavanagh,'  said  the  voice  within  him,  mock- 
ing, 'what  a  bloody,  great  fellow  you  are  with  your  needles  and 
matches.   Matches!   Jaysus!    Matches!' 

He  fetched  the  blade  all  the  same.  He  laid  it  on  the  table. 
He  wanted  to  go  on  listening  to  the  words  of  Ezra.  But  Ezra  had  not 
much  more  to  say.  One  picture  remained,  for  some  reason,  still  at 
the  surface  of  his  consciousness,  ready  to  be  told  among  all  the  others 
that  had  sunk  into  him  and  were  too  absorbed  into  him  to  be  told. 

On  the  last  evening  that  he  had  been  in  the  cellar  before  he 
had  moved  back  up  to  his  room  in  the  flat  above,  the  second  evening 
after  the  end  of  the  war,  a  figure  had  appeared  in  the  doorway.  It 
had  stood  there  in  a  long,  well-fitting  coat,  with  pale  leather  gloves 
and  a  cane  in  one  hand,  exuding  a  faint  fragrance  of  eau-de-Cologne 
in  the  evil-smelling  cellar.  It  had  stood  looking  at  them  and  had 
nodded  to  them  and  then  turned  and  gone,  followed  by  the  little 
group  of  soldiers  who  accompanied  it.  Not  one  of  them  huddled  in 
the  cellar  had  known  what  to  make  of  it.  There  was  a  hum  of  talk 
around  it.  Did  it  herald  the  end  of  the  war?  For  at  that  time  they 
had  not  known  that  the  war  was  over.  Or  the  end  of  the  sack  of  the 
city?  And  then  there  was  the  question  whether  it  had  really  nodded 
at  all. 

Kavanagh  was  standing  at  the  window.  The  house  was  at  a  corner 
and  the  windows  at  which  he  stood  looked  out  on  a  side  street  and 


THE   VARIED   SHAPES   OF   VIOLENCE  443 

over  the  roofs  of  Altamont  towards  the  hills.  The  other  window  faced 
on  to  the  main  street.  From  where  he  was,  Kavanagh  saw  the  cold, 
grey  flush  of  dawn.  The  blackness  of  night  had  turned  to  ash  piled  on 
the  hills  and  dully  reflecting  the  still  far-away  flame  of  day.  He 
limped  to  the  other  window.  When  he  had  drunken  a  few  pints  of 
stout,  his  limp  always  became  more  noticeable.  From  this  window 
there  was  nothing  to  be  seen  but  the  oceanic  darkness.  That  was 
better.  Kavanagh  did  not  yet  want  the  dawn.  He  did  not  yet  want  the 
day  that  would  bring  him  back  to  the  shop,  to  the  mean  street  of  the 
provincial  town  from  the  other  street  down  which  he  had  followed 
Ezra  in  the  Doomsday  darkness.  His  heart  had  expanded  as  Ezra's 
words  had  touched  it.  He  felt  it  would  burst  if  it  could  not  be  stilled. 
It  needed  darkness;  he  had  been  brought  by  Ezra  to  a  place  on  the 
edge  of  depths  that  seemed  half-familiar  to  him.  Had  he  seen  them 
in  dreams?  There  was  still  the  night  left.  From  this  window  the 
night  was  still  long — long  enough  for  him  to  go  down  into  it  with 
Annie  and  be  stilled.  Be  stilled?  That  was  a  queer  word,  too. 
He  stood  staring  out  at  the  darkness  that  already  seemed  a  shade 
less  profound.  He  could  see  the  low  roofs  of  the  shops  in 
Main  Street.  Was  there  still  enough  of  the  night  left  in  which  to  do 
that  that  would  save  him  from  the  drabness  of  the  coming  day? 

Yet  when  Ezra  rose  to  go,  Kavanagh  tried  to  keep  him.  He  knew 
that  when  he  went  he  would  take  with  him  some  of  the  breath  of 
darkness,  of  the  Dies  Irae  darkness,  and  that  what  was  left  of  the 
night  would  be  lessened  and  diminished.  They  split  one  more  bot- 
tle of  stout  together,  and  then  Ezra  crossed  the  street  to  Flood's 
hotel. 

Kavanagh  sat  on  at  the  table.  He  heard  Annie  washing  at  the 
sink.  He  would  show  them!  He  would  desecrate  their  little  pieties 
with  her  body  and  blood.  He  would  slake  his  lust  by  befouling  their 
miserable  altars! 

When  she  had  finished  washing,  she  walked  naked  through  the 
parlour  to  the  bedroom.  'Going  to  bed,'  she  murmured. 

'You  might  remember  that  this  is  the  parlour,  girl,  and  put  some- 
thing on  when  you're  going  through  it,'  he  said.  He  hated  her  for 
taking  him  so  much  for  granted,  for  taking  this  night  for  granted, 
for  not  being  affected  by  Ezra's  words,  for  not  being  afraid  of  him. 

'What  for?  Aren't  you  used  to  the  sight  of  me?'  she  said. 

'More  than  used.  I'm  sick  of  it  and  that's  a  fact.'  But  it  was  not 
true.  He  was  seeing  her  for  the  first  time. 


444  FRANCIS    STUART 

In  this  smouldering,  mouldering  way,  the  quarrel  which  on  his 
part  was  only  a  polite  pretence  had  dragged  on  as  he  undressed 
and  got  into  bed  with  her.  He  smelt  the  kitchen  soap  that  she  had 
used.  She  lay  quite  still  and  breathed  through  her  mouth.  Kavanagh 
had  turned  to  her  savagely  in  the  dark.  Tomorrow  he  must  re- 
turn to  Dublin,  and  there  was  so  little  darkness  left  between  him 
and  the  long,  drab  day  that  would  dawn.  He  had  other  nights,  of 
course,  but  each  night  it  would  be  more  difficult  to  wrest  from  her 
what  he  wanted.  He  thought  of  the  soldiers  sacking  the  city,  their 
arms  covered  in  watches.  What  was  there  left  for  him  to  do,  to 
get?  He  could  not  sack  a  city.  But  he  could  at  least  raise  quite  a 
little  bit  of  trouble  in  this  town. 

He  would  smear  their  holy  pictures  for  them  with  the  blood  from 
her  big,  bluish- white  thigh!  He  was  a  little  drunk;  not  with  the 
stout  though.  That  was  a  surface  drunkenness.  Dawn  was  at  the  win- 
dow; but  now  he  had  no  more  fear  of  the  sober,  pious  light  of  the 
small-town  day.  Let  the  light  fall  on  the  street,  on  the  black  clothes 
of  Father  Mellowes  clip-clopping  down  the  steps  of  the  church 
from  saying  Mass,  Dominus  vobiscum,  ite  Missa  est,  on  the  women 
doing  their  shopping,  the  bacon  machine  slicing  the  rashers  while 
they  waited,  thin,  thick  or  medium,  fat,  streaky  or  lean,  the  jingle  of 
the  till,  of  the  bicycle  bells  in  the  street,  of  the  bell  rung  by  the  serv- 
ers at  Mass.  All  the  tinkling,  clinking,  chattering  day  that  was  ebb- 
ing back  into  the  street,  but  before  which  there  were  still  these  hours 
of  silence.  In  the  grey  silence  he  had  yet  time  to  burrow  into  the 
secret  flower  of  chaos  whose  pollen  was  blood. 


Part  V 

WHERE  MOTLEY  IS  WORN 


Being  certain  that  they  and  I 
But  lived  where  motley  is  worn  .  . 
W.  B.  Yeats 


SOMERVILLE    AND    ROSS 

The  Holy  Island1 

For  three  days  of  November  a  white  fog  stood  motionless  over  the 
country.  All  day  and  all  night  smothered  booms  and  bangs  away  to 
the  south-west  told  that  the  Fastnet  gun  was  hard  at  work,  and  the 
sirens  of  the  American  liners  uplifted  their  monstrous  female  voices 
as  they  felt  their  way  along  the  coast  of  Cork.  On  the  third  after- 
noon the  wind  began  to  whine  about  the  windows  of  Shreelane,  and 
the  barometer  fell  like  a  stone.  At  11  p.m.  the  storm  rushed  upon 
us  with  the  roar  and  the  suddenness  of  a  train;  the  chimneys 
bellowed,  the  tall  old  house  quivered,  and  the  yelling  wind  drove 
against  it,  as  a  man  puts  his  shoulder  against  a  door  to  burst  it  in. 

We  none  of  us  got  much  sleep,  and  if  Mrs.  Cadogan  is  to 
be  believed — which  experience  assures  me  she  is  not — she  spent  the 
night  in  devotional  exercises,  and  in  ministering  to  the  panic- 
stricken  kitchen-maid  by  the  light  of  a  Blessed  candle.  All  that  day 
the  storm  screamed  on,  dry-eyed;  at  nightfall  the  rain  began,  and 
next  morning,  which  happened  to  be  Sunday,  every  servant  in  the 
house  was  a  messenger  of  Job,  laden  with  tales  of  leakages,  floods, 
and  fallen  trees,  and  inflated  with  the  ill-concealed  glory  of  their 
kind  in  evil  tidings.  To  Peter  Cadogan,  who  had  been  to  early  Mass, 
was  reserved  the  crowning  satisfaction  of  reporting  that  a  big  vessel 
had  gone  on  the  rocks  at  Yokahn  Point  the  evening  before, 
and  was  breaking  up  fast;  it  was  rumoured  that  the  crew  had  got 
ashore,  but  this  feature,  being  favourable  and  uninteresting,  was 
kept  as  much  as  possible  in  the  background.  Mrs.  Cadogan,  who  had 
been  to  America  in  an  ocean  liner,  became  at  once  the  latest  author- 
ity on  shipwrecks,  and  was  of  opinion  that  'whoever  would  be 
dhrownded,  it  wouldn't  be  thim  lads  o'  sailors.  Sure  wasn't  there 
the  greatest  storm  ever  was  in  it  the  time  meself  was  on  the  say,  and 
what'd  thim  fellows  do  but  to  put  us  below  entirely  in  the  ship,  and 
close  down  the  doors  on  us,  the  way  theirselves'd  leg  it  when  we'd  be 
dhrownding!' 

This  view  of  the  position  was  so  startlingly  novel  that  Philippa 
withdrew  suddenly  from  the  task  of  ordering  dinner,  and  fell  up  ths 
kitchen  stairs  in  unsuitable  laughter.  Philippa  has  not  the  most 
rudimentary  capacity  for  keeping  her  countenance. 

1  From  Some  Experiences  of  an  Irish  R.  M.,  London,  1897. 

447 


448  SOMERVILLE   AND   ROSS 

That  afternoon  I  was  wrapped  in  the  slumber,  balmiest  and  most 
profound,  that  follows  on  a  wet  Sunday  luncheon,  when  Murray, 
our  D.I.  of  police,  drove  up  in  uniform,  and  came  into  the  house  on 
the  top  of  a  gust  that  set  every  door  banging  and  every  picture  danc- 
ing on  the  walls.  He  looked  as  if  his  eyes  had  been  blown  out  of  his 
head,  and  he  wanted  something  to  eat  very  badly. 

I've  been  down  at  the  wreck  since  ten  o'clock  this  morning,'  he 
said,  'waiting  for  her  to  break  up,  and  once  she  does  there'll  be  trou- 
ble. She's  an  American  ship,  and  she's  full  up  with  rum,  and  bacon, 
and  butter,  and  all  sorts.  Bosanquet  is  there  with  all  his  coastguards, 
and  there  are  five  hundred  country  people  on  the  strand  at  this  mo- 
ment, waiting  for  the  fun  to  begin.  I've  got  ten  of  my  fellows  there, 
and  I  wish  I  had  as  many  more.  You'd  better  come  back  with  me, 
Yeates,  we  may  want  the  Riot  Act  before  all's  done!' 

The  heavy  rain  had  ceased,  but  it  seemed  as  if  it  had  fed  the 
wind  instead  of  calming  it,  and  when  Murray  and  I  drove  out  of 
Shreelane,  the  whole  dirty  sky  was  moving,  full  sailed,  in  from  the 
south-west,  and  the  telegraph  wires  were  hanging  in  a  loop  from 
the  post  outside  the  gate.  Nothing  except  a  Skebawn  car-horse 
would  have  faced  the  whooping  charges  of  the  wind  that  came  at 
us  across  Corran  Lake;  stimulated  mysteriously  by  whistles  from  the 
driver,  Murray's  yellow  hireling  pounded  woodenly  along  against 
the  blast,  till  the  smell  of  the  torn  seaweed  was  borne  upon  it,  and 
we  saw  the  Atlantic  waves  come  towering  into  the  bay  of 
Tralagough. 

The  ship  was,  or  had  been,  a  three-masted  barque;  two  of  her 
masts  were  gone,  and  her  bows  stood  high  out  of  water  on  the  reef 
that  forms  one  of  the  shark-like  jaws  of  the  bay.  The  long  strand 
was  crowded  with  black  groups  of  people,  from  the  bank  of  heavy 
shingle  that  had  been  hurled  over  on  to  the  road,  down  to  the  slope 
where  the  waves  pitched  themselves  and  climbed  and  fought  and 
tore  the  gravel  back  with  them,  as  though  they  had  dug  their 
fingers  in.  The  people  were  nearly  all  men,  dressed  solemnly  and 
hideously  in  their  Sunday  clothes;  most  of  them  had  come  straight 
from  Mass  without  any  dinner,  true  to  that  Irish  instinct  that  places 
its  fun  before  its  food.  That  the  wreck  was  regarded  as  a  spree  of 
the  largest  kind  was  sufficiently  obvious.  Our  car  pulled  up  at  a  pub- 
lichouse  that  stood  askew  between  the  road  and  the  shingle;  it  was 
humming  with  those  whom  Irish  publicans  are  pleased  to  call  'Bona 


THE   HOLY   ISLAND  449 

feeds/  1  and  sundry  of  the  same  class  were  clustered  round  the  door. 
Under  the  wall  on  the  lee  side  was  seated  a  bagpiper,  droning  out 
The  Irish  Washerwoman  with  nodding  head  and  tapping  heel,  and 
a  young  man  was  cutting  a  few  steps  of  a  jig  for  the  delectation  of  a 
group  of  girls. 

So  far  Murray's  constabulary  had  done  nothing  but  exhibit  their 
imposing  chest  measurement  and  spotless  uniforms  to  the  Atlantic, 
and  Bosanquet's  coastguards  had  only  salvaged  some  spars,  the  de- 
bris of  a  boat,  and  a  dead  sheep,  but  their  time  was  coming.  As  we 
stumbled  down  over  the  shingle,  battered  by  the  wind  and  pelted  by 
clots  of  foam,  someone  beside  me  shouted  'She's  gone!'  A  hill  of  wa- 
ter had  smothered  the  wreck,  and  when  it  fell  from  her  again  noth- 
ing was  left  but  the  bows,  with  the  bowsprit  hanging  from  them  in  a 
tangle  of  rigging.  The  clouds,  bronzed  by  an  unseen  sunset,  hung 
low  over  her;  in  that  greedy  pack  of  waves,  with  the  remorseless 
rocks  above  and  below  her,  she  seemed  the  most  lonely  and  tor- 
mented of  creatures. 

About  half  an  hour  afterwards  the  cargo  began  to  come  ashore 
on  the  top  of  the  rising  tide.  Barrels  were  plunging  and  diving  in 
the  trough  of  the  waves,  like  a  school  of  porpoises;  they  were  pitched 
up  the  beach  in  waist-deep  rushes  of  foam;  they  rolled  down  again, 
and  were  swung  up  and  shouldered  by  the  next  wave,  playing  a 
kind  of  Tom  Tiddler's  ground  with  the  coastguards.  Some  of  the 
barrels  were  big  and  dangerous,  some  were  small  and  nimble  like 
young  pigs,  and  the  bluejackets  were  up  to  their  middles  as  their 
prey  dodged  and  ducked,  and  the  police  lined  out  along  the  beach  to 
keep  back  the  people.  Ten  men  of  the  R.I.C.2  can  do  a  great  deal, 
but  they  cannot  be  in  more  than  twenty  or  thirty  places  at  the  same 
instant;  therefore  they  could  hardly  cope  with  a  scattered  and  ex- 
tremely active  mob  of  four  or  five  hundred,  many  of  whom  had  taken 
advantage  of  their  privileges  as  'bona-fide  travellers,'  and  all  of 
whom  were  determined  on  getting  at  the  rum. 

As  the  dusk  fell  the  thing  got  more  and  more  out  of  hand;  the  peo- 
ple had  found  out  that  the  big  puncheons  held  the  rum,  and  had  suc- 
ceeded in  capturing  one.  In  the  twinkling  of  an  eye  it  was  broached, 
and  fifty  backs  were  shoving  round  it  like  a  football  scrummage.  I 


Q 


n  Ireland  a  bona-fide  traveller  is  still  entitled  to  a  drink  at  any  pub  after  closing  hours 
or  on  Sundays.  In  the  good  old  days  a  3-mile  trip  made  one  a  licensed  toper. 
"  Royal  Irish  Constabulary. 


450  SOMERVILLE   AND   ROSS 

have  heard  many  rows  in  my  time:  I  have  seen  two  Irish  regiments 
— one  of  them  Militia — at  each  other's  throats  in  Fermoy  bar- 
racks; I  have  heard  Philippa's  water-spaniel  and  two  fox-terriers 
hunting  a  strange  cat  round  the  dairy;  but  never  have  I  known 
such  untrammelled  bedlam  as  that  which  yelled  round  the  rum- 
casks  on  Tralagough  strand.  For  it  was  soon  not  a  question  of  one 
broached  cask,  or  even  of  two.  The  barrels  were  coming  in  fast,  so 
fast  that  it  was  impossible  for  the  representatives  of  law  and  order 
to  keep  on  any  sort  of  terms  with  them.  The  people,  shouting  with 
laughter,  stove  in  the  casks,  and  drank  rum  at  thirty-four  degrees 
above  proof,  out  of  their  hands,  out  of  their  hats,  out  of  their  boots. 
Women  came  fluttering  over  the  hillsides  through  the  twilight, 
carrying  jugs,  milk-pails,  anything  that  would  hold  the  liquor;  I 
saw  one  of  them,  roaring  with  laughter,  tilt  a  filthy  zinc  bucket  to 
an  old  man's  lips. 

With  the  darkness  came  anarchy.  The  rising  tide  brought  more 
and  yet  more  booty:  great  spars  came  lunging  in  on  the  lap  of  the 
waves,  mixed  up  with  cabin  furniture,  seamen's  chests,  and  the 
black  and  slippery  barrels,  and  the  country  people  continued  to 
flock  in,  and  the  drinking  became  more  and  more  unbridled.  Mur- 
ray sent  for  more  men  and  a  doctor,  and  we  slaved  on  hope- 
lessly in  the  dark;  collaring  half-drunken  men,  shoving  pig-headed 
casks  up  hills  of  shingle,  hustling  in  among  groups  of  roaring  drink- 
ers— we  rescued  perhaps  one  barrel  in  half  a  dozen.  I  began  to  know 
that  there  were  men  there  who  were  not  drunk  and  were  not  idle;  I 
was  also  aware,  as  the  strenuous  hours  of  darkness  passed,  of  an 
occasional  rumble  of  cart  wheels  on  the  road.  It  was  evident  that  the 
casks  which  were  broached  were  the  least  part  of  the  looting,  but 
even  they  were  beyond  our  control.  The  most  that  Bosanquet,  Mur- 
ray, and  I  could  do  was  to  concentrate  our  forces  on  the  casks  that 
had  been  secured,  and  to  organize  charges  upon  the  swilling  crowds 
in  order  to  upset  the  casks  that  they  had  broached.  Already  men 
and  boys  were  lying  about,  limp  as  leeches,  motionless  as  the  dead. 

'They'll  kill  themselves  before  morning,  at  this  rate!'  shouted 
Murray  to  me.  'They're  drinking  it  by  the  quart!  Here's  another 
barrel;  come  on!' 

We  rallied  our  small  forces,  and  after  a  brief  but  furious  strug- 
gle succeeded  in  capsizing  it.  It  poured  away  in  a  flood  over 
the  stones,  over  the  prostrate  figures  that  sprawled  on  them,  and  a 
howl  of  reproach  followed. 


THE   HOLY   ISLAND  451 

If  ye  pour  away  any  more  o'  that,  Major/  said  an  unctuous  voice 
in  my  ear,  'ye'll  intoxicate  the  stones  and  they'll  be  getting  up  and 
knocking  us  down!' 

I  had  been  aware  of  a  fat  shoulder  next  to  mine  in  the  throng  as 
we  heaved  the  puncheon  over,  and  I  now  recognised  the  ponder- 
ous wit  and  FalstafBan  figure  of  Mr.  James  Canty,  a  noted  member 
of  the  Skebawn  Board  of  Guardians,  and  the  owner  of  a  large  farm, 
near  at  hand. 

'I  never  saw  worse  work  on  this  strand,'  he  went  on.  'I  considher 
these  debaucheries  a  disgrace  to  the  counthry.' 

Mr.  Canty  was  famous  as  an  orator,  and  I  presume  that  it  was; 
from  long  practice  among  his  fellow  P.L.G.'s1  that  he  was  able,  with- 
out apparent  exertion,  to  out-shout  the  storm. 

At  this  juncture  the  long-awaited  reinforcements  arrived,  and 
along  with  them  came  Dr.  Jerome  Hickey,  armed  with  a  black  bag. 
Having  mentioned  that  the  bag  contained  a  pump — not  one  of  the 
common  or  garden  variety — and  that  no  pump  on  board  a  founder- 
ing ship  had  more  arduous  labour  to  perform,  I  prefer  to  pass  to 
other  themes.  The  wreck,  which  had  at  first  appeared  to  be  as  inex- 
haustible and  as  variously  stocked  as  that  in  the  Swiss  Family  Rob- 
son,  was  beginning  to  fail  in  its  supply.  The  crowd  were  by  this 
time  for  the  most  part  incapable  from  drink,  and  the  fresh  contin- 
gent of  police  tackled  their  work  with  some  prospect  of  success  by 
the  light  of  a  tar  barrel,  contributed  by  the  owner  of  the  public- 
house.  At  about  the  same  time  I  began  to  be  aware  that  I  was  ach- 
ing with  fatigue,  that  my  clothes  hung  heavy  and  soaked  upon  me, 
that  my  face  was  stiff  with  the  salt  spray  and  the  bitter  wind,  and 
that  it  was  two  hours  past  dinner  time.  The  possibility  of  fried  salt 
herrings  and  hot  whisky  and  water  at  the  public-house  rose 
dazzlingly  before  my  mind,  when  Mr.  Canty  again  crossed  my  path. 

Tn  my  opinion  ye  have  the  whole  cargo  under  conthrol  now,  Ma- 
jor,' he  said,  'and  the  police  and  the  sailors  should  be  able  to  ac- 
count for  it  all  now  by  the  help  of  the  light.  Wasn't  I  the  finished 
fool  that  I  didn't  think  to  send  up  to  my  house  for  a  tar  barrel  be- 
fore now!  Well — we're  all  foolish  sometimes!  But  indeed  it's  time 
for  us  to  give  over,  and  that's  what  I'm  saying  to  the  Captain  and 
Mr.  Murray.  You're  exhausted  now,  the  three  of  ye,  and  if  I  might 
make  so  bold,  I'd  suggest  that  ye'd  come  up  to  my  little  place  and 

1  Poor   Law    Guardians. 


452  SOMERVILLE   AND   ROSS 

have  what'd  warm  ye  before  ye'd  go  home.  It's  only  a  few  perches 
up  the  road.' 

The  tide  had  turned,  the  rain  had  begun  again,  and  the  tar  barrel 
illumined  the  fact  that  Dr.  Hickey's  dreadful  duties  alone  were 
pressing.  We  held  a  council  and  finally  followed  Mr.  Canty,  picking 
our  way  through  wreckage  of  all  kinds,  including  the  human  variety. 
Near  the  publichouse  I  stumbled  over  something  that  was  soft  and 
had  a  squeak  in  it;  it  was  the  piper,  with  his  head  and  shoulders  in 
an  overturned  rum-barrel,  and  the  bagpipes  still  under  his  arm. 

I  knew  the  outward  appearance  of  Mr.  Canty's  house  very  well. 
It  was  a  typical  southern  farmhouse,  with  dirty  white-washed  walls, 
a  slated  roof,  and  small,  hermetically-sealed  windows  staring  at  the 
morass  of  manure  which  constituted  the  yard.  We  followed 
Mr.  Canty  up  the  filthy  lane  that  led  to  it,  picked  our  way  round 
vague  and  squelching  spurs  of  the  manure  heap,  and  were  finally 
led  through  the  kitchen  into  a  stifling  best  parlour.  Mrs.  Canty,  a 
vast  and  slatternly  matron,  had  evidently  made  preparations  for  us; 
there  was  a  newly-lighted  fire  pouring  flame  up  the  chimney 
from  layers  of  bogwood,  there  were  whisky  and  brandy  on  the  table, 
and  a  plateful  of  biscuits  sugared  in  white  and  pink.  Upon  our  host- 
ess was  a  black  silk  dress  which  indifferently  concealed  the  fact  that 
she  was  short  of  boot-laces,  and  that  the  boots  themselves  had  made 
many  excursions  to  the  yard  and  none  to  the  blacking-bottle.  Her 
manners,  however,  were  admirable,  and  while  I  live  I  shall  not  for- 
get her  potato  cakes.  They  came  in  hot  and  hot  from  a  pot-oven, 
they  were  speckled  with  caraway  seeds,  they  swam  in  salt  butter, 
and  we  ate  them  shamelessly  and  greasily,  and  washed  them  down 
with  hot  whisky  and  water;  I  knew  to  a  nicety  how  ill  I  should  be 
next  day,  and  heeded  not. 

'Well,  gentlemen/  remarked  Mr.  Canty  later  on,  in  his  best  Board 
of  Guardians'  manner,  T've  seen  many  wrecks  between  this  and  the 
Mizen  Head,  but  I  never  witnessed  a  scene  of  more  disgraceful  ex- 
cess than  what  was  in  it  to-night.' 

'Hear,  hear!'  murmured  Bosanquet  with  unseemly  levity. 

T  should  say,'  went  on  Mr.  Canty,  'there  was  at  one  time  to-night 
upwards  of  one  hundhred  men  dead  dhrunk  on  the  strand,  or  any- 
way so  dhrunk  that  if  they'd  attempt  to  spake  they'd  foam  at  the 
mouth.' 

'The  craytures!'  interjected  Mrs.  Canty  sympathetically. 

'But  if  they're  dhrunk  to-day,'  continued  our  host,  'it's  nothing  at 


THE   HOLY   ISLAND  453 

all  to  what  they'll  be  to-morrow  and  afther  to-morrow  and  it  won't 
be  on  the  strand  they'll  be  dhrinkin'  it.' 

'Why,  where  will  it  be?'  said  Bosanquet,  with  his  disconcerting 
English  way  of  asking  a  point-blank  question. 

Mr.  Canty  passed  his  hand  over  his  red  cheeks. 

'There'll  be  plenty  asking  that  before  all's  said  and  done,  Captain/ 
he  said,  with  a  compassionate  smile,  'and  there'll  be  plenty  that 
could  give  the  answer  if  they'll  like,  but  by  dam  I  don't  think  ye'll 
be  apt  to  get  much  out  of  the  Yokahn  boys!' 

'The  Lord  save  us,  'twould  be  better  to  keep  out  from  the  likes  o' 
thim!'  put  in  Mrs.  Canty,  sliding  a  fresh  avalanche  of  potato  cakes 
on  to  the  dish;  'didn't  they  pull  the  clothes  off  the  gauger  and  pour 
potheen1  down  his  throath  till  he  ran  screeching  through  the  streets 
o'  Skebawn!' 

James   Canty   chuckled. 

T  remember  there  was  a  wreck  here  one  time,  and  the  undher- 
writers  put  me  in  charge  of  the  cargo.  Brandy  it  was — cases  of  the 
best  Frinch  brandy.  The  people  had  a  song  about  it,  what's  this  the 
first  verse  was — 

One  night  to  the  rocks  of  Yokahn 
Came  the  barque  Isabella  so  dandy, 
To  pieces  she  went  before  dawn, 
Herself  and  her  cargo  of  brandy, 
And  all  met  a  wathery  grave 
Excepting  the  vessel's  carpenther, 
Poor  fellow,  so  far  from  his  home. 

Mr.  Canty  chanted  these  touching  lines  in  a  tuneful  if  wheezy 
tenor.  'Well,  gentlemen,  we're  all  friends  here,'  he  continued,  'and 
it's  no  harm  to  mention  that  this  man  below  at  the  publichouse  came 
askin'  me  would  I  let  him  have  some  of  it  for  a  consideration. 
"Sullivan,"  says  I  to  him,  "if  ye  ran  down  gold  in  a  cup  in  place  of 
the  brandy,  I  wouldn't  give  it  to  you.  Of  coorse,"  says  I,  "I'm  not 
sayin'  that  if  a  bottle  was  to  get  a  crack  of  a  stick,  and  it  to  be  broken, 
and  a  man  to  drink  a  glass  out  of  it,  that  would  be  no  more  than  an 
accident."  "That's  no  good  to  me,"  says  he,  "but  if  I  had  twelve 
gallons  of  that  brandy  in  Cork,"  says  he,  "by  the  Holy  German!" 
says  he,  saying  an  awful  curse,  "I'd  sell  twenty-five  out  of  it!"  Well, 
indeed,  it  was  true  for  him;  it  was  grand  stuff.  As  the  saying  is,  it 
would  make  a  horse  out  of  a  cow!' 


Illegally  distilled  whiskey. 


454  SOMERVILLE   AND   ROSS 

It  appears  to  be  a  handy  sort  of  place  for  keeping  a  pub,'  said 
Bosanquet. 

'Shut  to  the  door,  Margaret,'  said  Mr.  Canty  with  elaborate  cau- 
tion. 'It'd  be  a  queer  place  that  wouldn't  be  handy  for  Sullivan!' 

A  further  tale  of  great  length  was  in  progress  when  Dr. 
Hickey's  Mephistophelian  nose  was  poked  into  the  best  parlour. 

'Hullo,  Hickey!  Pumped  out?  eh?'  said  Murray. 

'If  I  am,  there's  plenty  more  like  me,'  replied  the  doctor  enigmat- 
ically, 'and  some  of  them  three  times  over!  James,  did  these  gentle- 
men leave  you  a  drop  of  anything  that  you'd  offer  me?' 

'Maybe  ye'd  like  a  glass  of  rum,  Doctor?'  said  Mr.  Canty  with  a 
wink  at  his  other  guests. 

Dr.  Hickey  shuddered. 

I  had  next  morning  precisely  the  kind  of  mouth  that  I  had  antici- 
pated, and  it  being  my  duty  to  spend  the  better  part  of  the  day 
administering  justice  in  Skebawn,  I  received  from  Mr.  Flurry 
Knox  and  other  of  my  brother  magistrates  precisely  the  class  of 
condolences  on  my  'Monday  head'  that  I  found  least  amusing.  It  was 
unavailing  to  point  out  the  resemblance  between  hot  potato  cakes 
and  molten  lead,  or  to  dilate  on  their  equal  power  of  solidifying; 
the  collective  wisdom  of  the  Bench  decided  that  I  was  suffering  from 
contraband  rum,  and  rejoiced  over  me  accordingly. 

During  the  next  three  weeks  Murray  and  Bosanquet  put  in  a 
time  only  to  be  equalled  by  that  of  the  heroes  in  detective  romances. 
They  began  by  acting  on  the  hint  offered  by  Mr.  Canty,  and  were  re- 
warded by  finding  eight  barrels  of  bacon  and  three  casks  of  rum 
in  the  heart  of  Mr.  Sullivan's  turf  rick,  placed  there,  so  Mr.  Sullivan 
explained  with  much  detail,  by  enemies,  with  the  object  of  getting 
his  licence  taken  away.  They  stabbed  potato  gardens  with  crow- 
bars to  find  the  buried  barrels,  they  explored  the  chimneys,  they 
raided  the  cowhouses;  and  in  every  possible  and  impossible  place 
they  found  some  of  the  cargo  of  the  late  barque  John  D.  Williams, 
and,  as  the  sympathetic  Mr.  Canty  said,  'For  as  much  as  they  found, 
they  left  five  times  as  much  afther  them!' 

It  was  a  wet,  lingering  autumn,  but  towards  the  end  of  November 
the  rain  dried  up,  the  weather  stiffened,  and  a  week  of  light  frosts 
and  blue  skies  was  offered  as  a  tardy  apology.  Philippa  possesses,  in 
common  with  many  of  her  sex,  an  inappeasable  passion  for  picnics, 
and  her  ingenuity  for  devising  occasions  for  them  is  onlv  equalled 
by  her  gift  for  enduring  their  rigours.  I  have  seen  her  tackle  a  moist 


_ 


THE   HOLY   ISLAND  455 

chicken  pie  with  a  splinter  of  slate  and  my  stylograph  pen.  I  have 
known  her  to  take  the  tea-basket  to  an  auction,  and  make  tea  in  a 
four-wheeled  inside  car,  regardless  of  the  fact  that  it  was  coming 
under  the  hammer  in  ten  minutes,  and  that  the  kettle  took  twenty 
minutes  to  boil.  It  will  therefore  be  readily  understood  that  the  rare 
occasions  when  I  was  free  to  go  out  with  a  gun  were  not  allowed  to 
pass  uncelebrated  by  the  tea-basket. 

'You'd  much  better  shoot  Corran  Lake  to-morrow,'  my  wife  said 
to  me  one  brilliant  afternoon.  'We  could  send  the  punt  over,  and  I 
would  meet  you  on  Holy  Island  with ' 

The  rest  of  the  sentence  was  concerned  with  ways,  means,  and  the 
tea-basket,  and  need  not  be  recorded. 

I  had  taken  the  shooting  of  a  long  snipe  bog  that  trailed  from  Cor- 
ran Lake  almost  to  the  sea  at  Tralagough,  and  it  was  my  custom  to 
begin  to  shoot  from  the  seaward  end  of  it,  and  finally  to  work  round 
the  lake  after  duck. 

To-morrow  proved  a  heavenly  morning,  touched  with  frost,  gilt 
with  sun.  I  started  early,  and  the  mists  were  still  smoking  up  from 
the  calm,  all-reflecting  lake,  as  the  Quaker  stepped  out  along  the 
level  road,  smashing  the  thin  ice  on  the  puddles  with  his  big  feet. 
Behind  the  calves  of  my  legs  sat  Maria,  Philippa's  brown  Irish 
water-spaniel,  assiduously  licking  the  barrels  of  my  gun,  as  was  her 
custom  when  the  ecstasy  of  going  out  shooting  was  hers.  Maria  had 
been  given  to  Philippa  as  a  wedding-present,  and  since  then  it  had 
been  my  wife's  ambition  that  she  should  conform  to  the  Beth 
Gelert  standard  of  being  'a  lamb  at  home,  a  lion  in  the  chase.'  Maria 
did  pretty  well  as  a  lion:  she  hunted  all  dogs  unmistakably  smaller 
than  herself,  and  whenever  it  was  reasonably  possible  to  do  so  she 
devoured  the  spoils  of  the  chase,  notably  jack  snipe.  It  was  as  a  lamb 
that  she  failed;  objectionable  as  I  have  no  doubt  a  lamb  would  be  as 
a  domestic  pet,  it  at  least  would  not  snatch  the  cold  beef  from  the 
luncheon-table,  nor  yet,  if  banished  for  its  crimes,  would  it  spend  the 
night  in  scratching  the  paint  off  the  hall  door.  Maria  bit  beggars 
(who  valued  their  disgusting  limbs  at  five  shillings  the  square  inch), 
she  bullied  the  servants,  she  concealed  ducks'  claws  and  fishes' 
backbones  behind  the  sofa  cushions,  and  yet,  when  she  laid  her 
brown  snout  upon  my  knee,  and  rolled  her  blackguard  amber  eyes 
upon  me,  and  smote  me  with  her  feathered  paw,  it  was  impossible  to 
remember  her  iniquities  against  her.  On  shooting  mornings  Maria 
ceased  to  be  a  buccaneer,  a  glutton,  and  a  hypocrite.  From  the  mo- 


456  SOMERVILLE   AND   ROSS 

ment  when  I  put  my  gun  together  her  breakfast  stood  untouched 
until  it  suffered  the  final  degradation  of  being  eaten  by  the  cats, 
and  now  in  the  trap  she  was  shivering  with  excitement,  and  agoniz- 
ing in  her  soul  lest  she  should  even  yet  be  left  behind. 

Slipper  met  me  at  the  cross-roads  from  which  I  had  sent  back  the 
trap;  Slipper,  redder  in  the  nose  than  anything  I  had  ever  seen  off 
the  stage,  very  husky  as  to  the  voice,  and  going  rather  tender 
on  both  feet.  He  informed  me  that  I  should  have  a  grand  day's 
shooting,  the  head-poacher  of  the  locality  having,  in  a  most  gentle- 
manlike manner,  refrained  from  exercising  his  sporting  rights  the 
day  before,  on  hearing  that  I  was  coming.  I  understood  that  this 
was  to  be  considered  as  a  mark  of  high  personal  esteem,  and  I  set  to 
work  at  the  bog  with  suitable  gratitude. 

In  spite  of  Mr.  O'Driscoll's  magnanimity,  I  had  not  a  very  good 
morning.  The  snipe  were  there,  but  in  the  perfect  stillness  of  the 
weather  it  was  impossible  to  get  near  them,  and  five  times  out  of 
six  they  were  up,  flickering  and  dodging,  before  I  was  within  shot. 
Maria  became  possessed  of  seven  devils  and  broke  away  from  heel 
the  first  time  I  let  off  my  gun,  ranging  far  and  wide  in  search  of  the 
bird  I  had  missed,  and  putting  up  every  live  thing  for  half  a  mile 
round,  as  she  went  splashing  and  steeple-chasing  through  the  bog. 
Slipper  expressed  his  opinion  of  her  behaviour  in  language  more 
appallingly  picturesque  and  resourceful  than  any  I  have  heard,  even 
in  the  Skebawn  court  house;  I  admit  that  at  the  time  I  thought 
he  spoke  very  suitably.  Before  she  was  recaptured  every  remaining 
snipe  within  earshot  was  lifted  out  of  it  by  Slipper's  steam-engine 
whistles  and  my  own  infuriated  bellows;  it  was  fortunate  that  the 
bog  was  spacious  and  that  there  was  still  a  long  tract  of  it  ahead, 
where  beyond  these  voices  there  was  peace. 

I  worked  my  way  on,  jumping  treacle-dark  drains,  floundering 
through  the  rustling  yellow  rushes,  circumnavigating  the  bog-holes, 
and  taking  every  possible  and  impossible  chance  of  a  shot;  by  the 
time  I  had  reached  Corran  Lake  I  had  got  two  and  a  half  brace,  re- 
trieved by  Maria  with  a  perfection  that  showed  what  her  powers 
were  when  the  sinuous  adroitness  of  Slipper's  woodbine  stick  was 
fresh  in  her  mind.  But  with  Maria  it  was  always  the  unexpected  that 
happened.  My  last  snipe,  a  jack,  fell  in  the  lake,  and  Maria,  burst- 
ing through  the  reeds  with  kangaroo  bounds,  and  cleaving  the  wa- 
ter like  a  torpedo-boat,  was  a  model  of  all  the  virtues  of  her  kind. 


THE   HOLY   ISLAND  457 

She  picked  up  the  bird  with  a  snake-like  dart  of  her  head,  clam- 
bered with  it  on  to  a  tussock,  and  there,  well  out  of  reach  of  the 
arm  of  the  law,  before  our  indignant  eyes  crunched  it  twice  and 
bolted  it. 

'Well,'  said  Slipper  complacently,  some  ten  minutes  afterwards, 
'divil  such  a  bating  ever  I  gave  a  dog  since  the  day  Prince  killed 
owld  Mrs.  Knox's  pay  cock!  Prince  was  a  lump  of  a  brown  tarrier  I 
had  one  time,  and  faith  I  kicked  the  toes  out  o'  me  owld  boots  on 
him  before  I  had  the  owld  lady  composed!' 

However  composing  Slipper's  methods  may  have  been  to  Mrs. 
Knox,  they  had  quite  the  contrary  effect  upon  a  family  party  of 
duck  that  had  been  lying  in  the  reeds.  With  horrified  outcries  they 
broke  into  flight,  and  now  were  far  away  on  the  ethereal  mirror  of 
the  lake,  among  strings  of  their  fellows  that  were  floating  and  quack- 
ing in  preoccupied  indifference  to  my  presence. 

A  promenade  along  the  lake-shore  demonstrated  the  fact  that 
without  a  boat  there  was  no  more  shooting  for  me;  I  looked  across 
to  the  island  where,  some  time  ago,  I  had  seen  Philippa  and  her 
punt  arrive.  The  boat  was  tied  to  an  overhanging  tree,  but  my 
wife  was  nowhere  to  be  seen.  I  was  opening  my  mouth  to  give  a 
hail,  when  I  saw  her  emerge  precipitately  from  among  the  trees  and 
jump  into  the  boat;  Philippa  had  not  in  vain  spent  many  summers 
on  the  Thames:  she  was  under  way  in  a  twinkling,  sculled  a  score  of 
strokes  at  the  rate  of  a  finish,  then  stopped  at  the  peaceful  island.  I 
called  to  her,  and  in  a  minute  or  two  the  punt  had  crackled 
through  the  reeds,  and  shoved  its  blunt  nose  ashore  at  the  spot 
where  I  was  standing. 

'Sinclair,'  said  Philippa  in  awestruck  tones,  'there's  something  on 
the  island!' 

T  hope  there's  something  to  eat  there,'  said  I. 

1  tell  you  there  is  something  there,  alive,'  said  my  wife  with  her 
eyes  as  large  as  saucers;  'it's  making  an  awful  sound  like  snoring.' 

'That's  the  fairies,  ma'am,'  said  Slipper  with  complete  certainty; 
'sure  I  known  them  that  seen  fairies  in  that  island  as  thick  as  the 
grass,  and  every  one  o'  them  with  little  caps  on  them.' 

Philippa's  wide  gaze  wandered  to  Slipper's  hideous  pug  face  and 
back  to  me. 

'It  was  not  a  human  being,  Sinclair!'  she  said  combatively, 
though  I  had  not  uttered  a  word. 


458  SOMERVILLE   AND   BOSS 

Maria  had  already,  after  the  manner  of  dogs,  leaped,  dripping, 
into  the  boat:.  I  prepared  to  follow  her  example. 

'Major,'  said  Slipper,  in  a  tragic  whisper,  'there  was  a  man  was  a 
night  on  that  island  one  time,  watching  duck,  and  Thim  People  cot 
him,  and  dhragged  him  through  Hell  and  through  Death,  and  threw 
him  in  the  tide ' 

'Shove  off  the  boat,'  I  said,  too  hungry  for  argument. 

Slipper  obeyed,  throwing  his  knee  over  the  gunwale  as  he  did  so, 
and  rumbling  into  the  bow;  we  could  have  done  without  him  very 
comfortably,  but  his  devotion  was  touching. 

Holy  Island  was  perhaps  a  hundred  yards  long,  and  about  half 
as  many  broad;  it  was  covered  with  trees  and  a  dense  growth  of 
rhododendrons;  somewhere  in  the  jungle  was  a  ruined  fragment  of 
a  chapel,  smothered  in  ivy  and  briars,  and  in  a  little  glade  in  the 
heart  of  the  island  there  was  a  holy  well.  We  landed,  and  it  was  ob- 
viously a  sore  humiliation  to  Philippa  that  not  a  sound  was  to  be 
heard  in  the  spell-bound  silence  of  the  island,  save  the  cough  of  a 
heron  on  a  tree-top. 

'It  was  there,'  she  said,  with  an  unconvinced  glance  at  the  sur- 
rounding thickets. 

'Sure,  I'll  give  a  thrawl  through  the  island,  ma'am,'  volunteered 
Slipper  with  unexpected  gallantry,  'an'  if  it's  the  divil  himself  is  in 
it,  I'll  rattle  him  into  the  lake!' 

He  went  swaggering  on  his  search,  shouting  'Hi,  cock!'  and  whack- 
ing the  rhododendrons  with  his  stick,  and  after  an  interval  returned 
and  assured  us  that  the  island  was  uninhabited.  Being  pro- 
vided with  refreshments  he  again  withdrew,  and  Philippa  and 
Maria  and  I  fed  variously  and  at  great  length,  and  washed  the  plates 
with  water  from  the  holy  well.  I  was  smoking  a  cigarette  when  we 
heard  Slipper  addressing  the  solitudes  at  the  farther  end  of  the  is- 
land, and  ending  with  one  of  his  whisky-throated  crows  of  laughter. 

He  presently  came  lurching  towards  us  through  the  bushes,  and 
a  glance  sufficed  to  show  even  Philippa — who  was  as  incompetent  a 
judge  of  such  matters  as  many  of  her  sex — that  he  was  undeni- 
ably screwed. 

'Major  Yeates!'  he  began,  'and  Mrs.  Major  Yeates,  with  respex  to 
ye,  I'm  bastely  dhrunk!  Me  head  is  light  since  the  'fluenzy,  and  the 
docther  told  me  I  should  carry  a  little  bottle-een  o'  sperrits ' 

'Look  here,'  I  said  to  Philippa,  'I'll  take  him  across,  and  bring  the 
boat  back  for  you.' 


THE   HOLY   ISLAND  459 

'Sinclair,'  responded  my  wife  with  concentrated  emotion,  'I 
would  rather  die  than  stay  on  this  island  alone!' 

Slipper  was  getting  drunker  every  moment,  but  I  managed  to 
stow  him  on  his  back  in  the  bows  of  the  punt,  in  which  position 
he  at  once  began  to  uplift  husky  and  wandering  strains  of  melody. 
To  this  accompaniment  we,  as  Tennyson  says, 

moved  from  the  brink,  like  some  full-breasted  swan, 
That,  fluting  a  wild  carol  ere  her  death, 
Ruffles  her  pure  cold  plume,  and  takes  the  flood 
With  swarthy  webs. 

Slipper  would  certainly  have  been  none  the  worse  for  taking  the 
flood,  anoV  as  the  burden  of  Lannigans  Ball  strengthened  and 
spread  along  the  tranquil  lake,  and  the  duck  once  more  fled  in 
justifiable  consternation,  I  felt  much  inclined  to  make  him  do  so. 

We  made  for  the  end  of  the  lake  that  was  nearest  Shreelane,  and, 
as  we  rounded  the  point  of  the  island,  another  boat  presented  it- 
self to  our  view.  It  contained  my  late  entertainer,  Mrs.  Canty,  seated 
bulkily  in  the  stern,  while  a  small  boy  bowed  himself  between  the 
two  heavy  oars. 

it's  a  lovely  evening,  Major  Yeates,'  she  called  out.  'I'm  just  going 
to  the  island  to  get  some  water  from  the  holy  well  for  me  daughter 
that  has  an  impression  on  her  chest.  Indeed,  I  thought  'twas  your- 
self was  singing  a  song  for  Mrs.  Yeates  when  I  heard  you  coming, 
but  sure  Slipper  is  a  great  warrant  himself  for  singing.' 

'May  the  divil  crack  the  two  legs  undher  ye!'  bawled  Slipper  in  ac- 
knowledgment of  the  compliment. 

Mrs.  Canty  laughed  genially,  and  her  boat  lumbered  away. 

I  shoved  Slipper  ashore  at  the  nearest  point;  Philippa  and  I  pad- 
dled to  the  end  of  the  lake,  and  abandoning  the  duck  as  a  bad  busi- 
ness, walked  home. 

A  few  days  afterwards  it  happened  that  it  was  incumbent  upon 
me  to  attend  the  funeral  of  the  Roman  Catholic  bishop  of  the  dio- 
cese. It  was  what  is  called  in  France  un  bel  enterrement,  with  inky 
flocks  of  tall-hatted  priests,  and  countless  yards  of  white  scarves, 
and  a  repast  of  monumental  solidity  at  the  bishop's  residence.  The 
actual  interment  was  to  take  place  in  Cork,  and  we  moved  in  long 
and  imposing  procession  to  the  railway  station,  where  a  special  train 
awaited  the  cortege.  My  friend  Mr.  James  Canty  was  among  the 
mourners:    an   important   and   active   personage,   exchanging   con- 


460  SOMERVILLE   AND   ROSS 

dolences  with  the  priests,  giving  directions  to  porters,  and  blowing 
his  nose  with  a  trumpeting  mournfulness  that  penetrated  all  the 
other  noises  of  the  platform.  He  was  condescending  enough  to 
notice  my  presence,  and  found  time  to  tell  me  that  he  had  given 
Mr.  Murray  'a  sure  word'  with  regard  to  some  of  'the  wreckage  — 
this  with  deep  significance,  and  a  wink  of  an  inflamed  and  tearful 
eye.  I  saw  him  depart  in  a  first-class  carriage  and  the  odour  of  sanc- 
tity; seeing  that  he  was  accompanied  by  seven  priests,  and  that 
both  windows  were  shut,  the  latter  must  have  been  considerable. 

Afterwards,  in  the  town,  I  met  Murray,  looking  more  pleased 
with  himself  than  I  had  seen  him  since  he  had  taken  up  the  un- 
profitable task  of  smuggler-hunting. 

'Come  along  and  have  some  lunch,'  he  said,  Tve  got  a  real  good 
thing  on  this  time!  That  chap  Canty  came  to  me  late  last  night,  and 
told  me  that  he  knew  for  a  fact  that  the  island  on  Corran  Lake  was 
just  stiff  with  barrels  of  bacon  and  rum,  and  that  I'd  better  send 
every  man  I  could  spare  to-day  to  get  them  into  the  town.  I  sent 
the  men  out  at  eight  o'clock  this  morning;  I  think  I've  gone  one  bet- 
ter than  Bosanquet  this  time!' 

I  began  to  realize  that  Philippa  was  going  to  score  heavily  on  the 
subject  of  the  fairies  that  she  had  heard  snoring  on  the  island,  and  I 
imparted  to  Murray  the  leading  features  of  our  picnic  there. 

'Oh,  Slipper's  been  up  to  his  chin  in  that  rum  from  the  first,'  said 
Murray.  'I'd  like  to  know  who  his  sleeping  partner  was!' 

It  was  beginning  to  get  dark  before  the  loaded  carts  of  the 
salvage  party  came  lumbering  past  Murray's  windows  and  into  the 
yard  of  the  police-barrack.  We  followed  them,  and  in  so  doing 
picked  up  Flurry  Knox,  who  was  sauntering  in  the  same  direc- 
tion. It  was  a  good  haul,  five  big  casks  of  rum,  and  at  least  a  dozen 
smaller  barrels  of  bacon  and  butter,  and  Murray  and  his  Chief  Con- 
stable smiled  seraphically  on  one  another  as  the  spoil  was  unloaded 
and  stowed  in  a  shed. 

'Wouldn't  it  be  as  well  to  see  how  the  butter  is  keeping?'  remarked 
Flurry,  who  had  been  looking  on  silently,  with,  as  I  had  noticed,  a 
still  and  amused  eye.  'The  rim  of  that  small  keg  there  looks  as  if  it 
had  been  shifted  lately/ 

The  sergeant  looked  hard  at  Flurry;  he  knew  as  well  as  most 
people  that  a  hint  from  Mr.  Knox  was  usually  worth  taking.  He 
turned  to  Murray. 

'Will  I  open  it,  sir?' 


THE   HOLY   ISLAND  461 

'Oh!  open  it  if  Mr.  Knox  wishes/  said  Murray,  who  was  not  fa- 
mous for  appreciating  other  people's  suggestions. 

The  keg  was  opened. 

'Funny  butter/  said  Flurry. 

The  sergeant  said  nothing.  The  keg  was  full  of  black  bog-mould. 
Another  was  opened,  and  another,  all  with  the  same  result. 

'Damnation!'  said  Murray,  suddenly  losing  his  temper.  'What's 
the  use  of  going  on  with  those?  Try  one  of  the  rum  casks.' 

A  few  moments  passed  in  total  silence  while  a  tap  and  a  spigot 
were  sent  for  and  applied  to  the  barrel.  The  sergeant  drew  off  a 
mugful  and  put  his  nose  to  it  with  the  deliberation  of  a  connoisseur. 

'Water,  sir/  he  pronounced,  'dirty  water,  with  a  small  indication 
of  sperrits.' 

A  junior  constable  tittered  explosively,  met  the  light  blue  glare  of 
Murray's  eye,  and  withered  away. 

'Perhaps  it's  holy  water!'  said  I,  with  a  wavering  voice. 

Murray's  glance  pinned  me  like  an  assegai,  and  I  also  faded  into 
the  background. 

'Well/  said  Flurry  in  dulcet  tones,  'if  you  want  to  know  where  the 
stuff  is  that  was  in  those  barrels,  I  can  tell  you,  for  I  was  told  it  my- 
self half  an  hour  ago.  It's  gone  to  Cork  with  the  bishop  by  special 
train!' 

Mr.  Canty  was  undoubtedly  a  man  of  resource.  Mrs.  Canty  had 
mistakenly  credited  me  with  an  intelligence  equal  to  her  own,  and 
on  receiving  from  Slipper  a  highly  coloured  account  of  how  audibly 
Mr.  Canty  had  slept  off  his  potations,  had  regarded  the  secret  of 
Holy  Island  as  having  been  given  away.  That  night  and  the  two  suc- 
ceeding ones  were  spent  in  the  transfer  of  the  rum  to  bottles,  and 
the  bottles  and  the  butter  to  fish  boxes;  these  were,  by  means  of  a 
slight  lubrication  of  the  railway  underlings,  loaded  into  a  truck  as 
'Fresh  Fish,  Urgent/  and  attached  to  bishop's  funeral  train,  while  the 
police,  decoyed  far  from  the  scene  of  action,  were  breaking  their 
backs  over  barrels  of  bog-water.  'I  suppose/  continued  Flurry 
pleasantly,  'you  don't  know  the  pub  that  Canty's  brother  has  in 
Cork.  Well,  I  do.  I'm  going  to  buy  some  rum  there  next  week, 
cheap.' 

T  shall  proceed  against  Canty!'  said  Murray,  with  fateful  calm. 

'You  won't  proceed  far/  said  Flurry,  'you'll  not  get  as  much 
evidence  out  of  the  whole  country  as'd  hang  a  cat.' 

'Who  was  your  informant?'  demanded  Murray. 


462  SOMERVILLE   AND   ROSS 

Flurry  laughed.  'Well,  by  the  time  the  train  was  in  Cork,  yourself 
and  the  Major  were  the  only  two  men  in  the  town  that  weren't  talk- 
ing about  it/ 


JAMES     STEPHENS 

The  Unworthy  Princess1 

His  mother  finished  reading  the  story  of  the  Beautiful  Princess, 
and  it  was  surely  the  saddest  story  he  had  ever  heard.  He  could  not 
bear  to  think  of  that  lovely  and  delicate  lady  all  alone  in  the  huge, 
black  castle,  waiting,  waiting  until  the  giant  came  back  from  killing 
her  seven  brothers.  He  would  come  back  with  their  seven  heads 
swinging  pitifully  from  his  girdle,  and  when  he  reached  the  castle 
gates  he  would  gnash  his  teeth  through  the  keyhole  with  a  noise  like 
the  grinding  together  of  great  rocks,  and  would  poke  his  head 
through  the  fanlight  of  the  door  and  say  fee-faw-fum  in  a  voice  of 
such  exceeding  loudness  that  the  castle  would  be  shaken  to  its 
foundations. 

Thinking  of  this  his  throat  grew  painful  with  emotion,  and  his 
heart  swelled  to  the  most  uncomfortable  dimensions,  and  he  re- 
solved to  devote  his  whole  life  to  the  rescue  of  the  Princess  and,  if 
necessary,  die  in  her  defence. 

Such  was  his  impatience  that  he  could  wait  for  nothing  more 
than  his  dinner,  and  this  he  ate  so  speedily  as  to  cause  his  father  to 
call  him  a  Perfect- Young-Glutton  and  a  Disgrace-To-Any-Table. 
He  bore  these  insults  in  a  meek  and  heroic  spirit,  whereupon  his 
mother  said  he  was  ill,  and  it  was  only  by  a  sustained  and  violent 
outcry  that  he  escaped  being  sent  to  bed. 

Immediately  after  dinner,  he  set  out  in  search  of  the  Giant's- 
Castle.  Now,  a  Giant's-Castle  is  one  of  the  most  difficult  things  in 
the  world  to  find;  that  is  because  it  is  so  large  that  one  can  only  see 
it  through  the  wrong  end  of  a  telescope,  and  further,  he  did  not 
even  know  this  giant's  name;  and  so  he  might  never  have  found  the 
way  if  he  had  not  met  a  certain  Old- Woman  on  the  common.  She 
was  a  very  nice  Old- Woman:  she  had  three  teeth  and  a  red  shawl, 
and  an  umbrella  with  groceries  inside  it;  so  he  told  her  of  the  diffi- 
culty he  was  in.  She  replied  that  he  was  in  luck's  way,  and  that  she 
was  the  only  person  in  the  world  who  could  assist  him.  She  said  her 
name  was  Really-and-Truly,  and  that  she  had  a  magic  head,  and 
that  if  he  cut  off  her  head  it  would  answer  any  questions  he  asked  it. 
So  he  stropped  his  penknife  on  his  boot  and  said  he  was  ready.  The 

1  From  Here  Are  Ladies,  London,  1913.  First  published  in  The  Irish  Homestead,  December 
17,    1910. 

46a 


464  JAMES    STEPHENS 

Old- Woman  then  told  him  that  in  all  affairs  of  this  delicate  nature  it 
was  customary  to  take  the  will  for  the  deed,  and  that  he  might  now 
ask  her  head  anything  he  wanted  to  know,  so  he  asked  the  head  what 
was  the  way  to  the  nearest  giant,  and  the  head  replied  that  if  he 
took  the  first  turning  to  the  left,  the  second  to  the  right  and  then 
the  first  to  the  left  again,  and  knocked  at  the  fifth  door  on  the  right- 
hand  side,  he  would  see  the  giant. 

He  thanked  the  Old- Woman  very  much  for  the  use  of  her  head, 
and  she  permitted  him  to  lend  her  one  threepenny  piece,  one 
pocket  handkerchief,  one  gun-metal  watch,  and  one  bootlace.  She 
said  that  she  never  took  two  of  anything  because  that  was  not  fair, 
and  that  she  wanted  these  for  a  very  particular  secret  purpose  about 
which  she  dare  not  speak  and  as  to  which  she  trusted  he  would  not 
press  her,  and  then  she  took  a  most  affectionate  leave  of  him  and 
went  away. 

He  followed  her  directions  with  the  utmost  fidelity  and  soon 
found  himself  opposite  a  house  which,  to  the  eye  of  anyone  over 
seven  years  of  age,  looked  very  like  any  other  house,  but  to  the 
searching  eye  of  six  and  three-quarters  it  was  palpably  and  patently 
a  Giant's-Castle.  He  tried  the  door,  but  it  was  locked,  as,  indeed,  he 
expected  it  would  be,  and  then  he  crept  very  cautiously  and  peeped 
through  the  first-floor  window.  He  could  see  in  quite  plainly.  There 
was  a  Polar-Bear  crouching  on  the  floor,  and  the  head  looked  at  him 
so  directly  and  vindictively  that  if  he  had  not  been  a  hero  he  would 
have  fled.  The  unexpected  is  always  terrible,  and  when  one  goes 
forth  to  kill  a  Giant  it  is  unkind  of  Providence  to  complicate  one's 
adventure  with  a  gratuitous  and  wholly  unnecessary  Polar-Bear.  He 
was,  however,  reassured  by  the  sight  of  a  heavy  chair  standing  on 
the  Polar-Bear's  stomach,  and  in  the  chair  there  sat  the  Most-Beau- 
tiful-Woman-In-The- World. 

An  ordinary  person  would  not  have  understood,  at  first  sight,  that 
she  was  the  Most-Beautiful-Woman-In-The-World,  because  she 
looked  very  stout  and  much  older  than  is  customary  with  Prin- 
cesses— but  that  was  because  she  was  under  an  Enchantment  and 
she  would  become  quite  young  again  when  the  giant  was  slain  and 
three  drops  of  his  blood  had  been  sprinkled  on  her  Brow. 

She  was  leaning  forward  in  her  chair  staring  into  the  fire,  and  she 
was  so  motionless  that  he  was  certain  she  must  be  under  an  enchant- 
ment. From  the  very  instant  he  saw  the  Princess  he  loved  her,  and 
his  heart  swelled  with  pity  to  think  that  so  beautiful  a  damsel  should 


THE   UNWORTHY   PRINCESS  465 

be  subject  to  the  tyranny  of  a  giant,  and  these  twin  passions  of  pity 
and  love  grew  to  so  furious  a  strength  within  him  that  he  could  no 
longer  contain  himself,  but  wept  in  a  loud  and  very  sudden  voice 
which  lifted  the  damsel  out  of  her  enchantment  and  her  chair  and 
hurled  her  across  the  room  as  though  she  had  been  propelled  by  a 
powerful  spring. 

He  was  so  overjoyed  at  seeing  her  move  that  he  pressed  his 
face  against  the  glass  and  wept  with  great  strength,  and  in  a  few  mo- 
ments the  Princess  came  timidly  to  the  window  and  looked  out.  She 
looked  right  over  his  head  at  first  and  then  she  looked  down  and 
saw  him,  and  her  eyebrows  went  far  up  on  her  forehead  and  her 
mouth  opened,  and  so  he  knew  she  was  delighted  to  see  him.  He 
nodded  to  give  her  courage  and  shouted  three  times — Open  Sesame, 
Open  Sesame,  Open  Sesame,  and  then  she  opened  the  window  and 
he  climbed  in.  The  Princess  tried  to  push  him  out  again,  but  she 
was  not  able,  and  he  bade  her  put  all  her  jewels  in  the  heel  of  her 
boot  and  fly  with  him.  But  she  was  evidently  the  victim  of  a  very 
powerful  enchantment,  for  she  struggled  violently  and  said  incom- 
prehensible things  to  him,  such  as — 'Is  it  a  fire,  or  were  you  chased?' 
and  'Where  is  the  cook?'  But  after  a  little  time  she  listened  to  the 
voice  of  reason  and  knew  that  these  were  legitimate  and  heroic  em- 
braces from  which  she  could  not  honourably  disentangle  herself. 

When  her  first  transports  of  joy  were  somewhat  abated  she  assured 
him  that  excessive  haste  had  often  undone  great  schemes,  and  that 
one  should  look  before  one  leaped,  and  that  one  should  never  be 
rescued  all  at  once,  but  gradually,  in  order  that  one  might  become 
accustomed  to  the  severe  air  of  freedom,  and  he  was  overjoyed  to 
find  that  she  was  as  wise  as  she  was  beautiful.  He  told  her  that  he 
loved  her  dearly,  and  she  admitted,  after  some  persuasion,  that  she 
was  not  insensible  to  the  charms  of  his  heart  and  intellect,  but  that 
her  love  was  given  to  Another.  At  these  tidings  his  heart  withered 
away  within  him,  and  when  the  Princess  admitted  that  she  loved 
the  Giant  his  amazement  became  profound  and  complicated.  There 
was  a  rushing  sound  in  his  ears,  the  debris  of  his  well-known  world 
was  crashing  about  him  and  he  was  staring  upon  a  new  planet  the 
name  of  which  was  Astonishment.  He  looked  around  with  a  queer 
feeling  of  insecurity.  At  any  moment  the  floor  might  stand  up  on  one 
of  its  corners  or  the  walls  might  begin  to  flap  and  waggle.  But  none 
of  these  things  happened.  Before  him  sat  the  Princess  in  an  atti- 
tude of  deep  dejection  and  her  lily-white  hands  rested  helplessly  in 


466  JAMES    STEPHENS 

her  lap.  She  told  him  in  a  voice  that  trembled  that  she  would  have 
married  him  if  he  had  asked  ten  years  earlier  and  said  she  could  not 
fly  with  him  because,  in  the  first  place,  she  had  six  children,  and,  in 
the  second  place,  it  would  be  against  the  Law,  and,  in  the  third 
place,  his  mother  might  object.  She  admitted  that  she  was  Unworthy 
of  his  love  and  that  she  should  have  Waited,  and  she  bore  his  re- 
proaches with  a  meekness  that  finally  disarmed  him. 

He  stropped  his  penknife  on  his  boot  and  said  that  there  was 
nothing  left  but  to  kill  the  giant,  and  that  she  had  better  leave  the 
room  while  he  did  so  because  it  was  not  a  sight  for  a  weak  woman, 
and  he  wondered  how  much  hasty-pudding  would  fall  out  of  the 
giant  if  he  Stabbed  Him  Right  To  The  Heart.  The  Princess  begged 
him  not  to  kill  her  husband,  and  assured  him  that  this  giant  had  not 
got  any  hasty-pudding  in  his  heart,  and  stated  that  he  was  really  the 
nicest  giant  who  ever  lived,  and  that  he  had  not  killed  her  seven 
brothers  but  the  seven  brothers  of  quite  another  person  entirely, 
which  was  a  reasonable  thing  to  do  in  the  circumstances;  and  she 
continued  in  a  strain  which  proved  to  him  that  this  unnatural 
woman  really  loved  the  giant. 

It  was  more  in  pity  than  in  anger  that  he  recognised  the  impossi- 
bility of  rescuing  this  person.  He  saw  at  last  that  she  was  Un- 
worthy of  Being  Rescued,  and  told  her  so.  He  said  bitterly  that  he 
had  grave  doubts  of  her  being  a  Princess  at  all  and  that  if  she  was 
married  to  a  giant  it  was  no  more  than  she  deserved,  and  that  he  had 
a  good  mind  to  rescue  the  giant  from  her,  and  he  would  do  it  in  a 
minute  only  that  it  was  against  his  principles  to  rescue  giants.  And 
saying  so  he  placed  his  penknife  between  his  teeth  and  climbed  out 
through  the  window. 

He  stood  for  a  moment  outside  the  window  with  his  right  hand 
extended  to  the  sky  and  the  moonlight  blazing  on  his  penknife — a 
truly  formidable  figure  and  one  which  the  Princess  never  forgot, 
and  then  walked  slowly  away,  hiding  behind  a  cold  and  impassive 
demeanour  a  mind  that  was  tortured,  and  a  heart  that  had  plumbed 
most  of  the  depths  of  human  suffering. 


SEUMAS    O    KELLY 

The  Man  with  the  Gift1 

X  or  twenty-five  years  the  Boss  had  gone  up  and  down  the  worn 
cabin  steps  without  a  worry.  His  fists  had  grown  accustomed  to  the 
feel  of  ropes,  to  the  rolling  up  and  down  of  barrels,  and  the  swing- 
ing of  boxes,  at  the  loading  and  discharging  of  The  Golden  Barque.2 
The  motion  of  his  limbs  had  come  to  be  part  of  the  ritual  of  the 
deck.  He  exhaled  an  odour  of  tar.  His  feet  had  flattened,  his  hands 
had  rounded,  his  neck  had  developed  a  curve,  throwing  his  face  for- 
ward. His  eyes  were  palely  yellow,  like  the  water  of  the  canal.  His 
vision  had  become  concentrated,  drilling  through  the  landscape  like 
canals.  His  temperament  was  placid.  His  emotions  rose  and  fell  as 
mechanically  as  if  they  were  regulated  by  invisible  locks.  He  was  as 
tame  as  a  duck.  His  name  was  Martin  Coughlan,  and  he  was  known, 
by  stray  words  that  followed  his  speech  like  a  memory,  to  have 
come  from  the  North. 

That  torch  of  democracy — organisation — one  day  reached  the 
backwash  of  existence.  It  found  by  its  strange  devices,  of  all  people, 
Martin  Coughlan.  Up  to  that  he  had  no  sense  of  responsibility  for 
the  wrongs  of  the  world,  no  brooding  of  the  spirit  in  the  problems 
of  his  day.  His  interests  began  at  one  harbour  and  ended  at  another. 
The  things  that  he  saw  from  the  deck  made  up  his  world.  They  were 
good,  and  he  was  satisfied. 

But  then  they  came  to  him  and  told  him  he  had  been  elected  on 
the  Committee.  He  beamed  at  the  announcement,  for  he  grasped, 
though  vaguely,  that  he  was  a  man  chosen,  one  to  whom  honour 
was  paying  her  respects.  He  walked  into  the  shed  where  they  held 
the  Committee  meetings  with  his  slow  lurch,  his  mind  a  blank  as  to 
the  purpose  of  the  assembly.  He  made  no  inquiries.  He  sat  down 
with  the  others  and  looked  around  him.  A  man  at  a  table  read  some- 
thing out  of  a  book.  Martin  Coughlan  laughed,  and  felt  the  others 
staring  at  him. 

A  deep  voice,  with  a  note  of  admonition,  if  not  tragedy,  called 
out  'Order.'  Martin  Coughlan  poked  the  ribs  of  a  neighbour  to 
show  that  he  appreciated  the  humour  of  the  situation. 


1  From  The  Golden  Barque  and  The  Weaver's  Grave,  Dublin,  1919.  First  published  in  the 
Irish    Weekly  Independent,    1912. 

2  The  Golden  Barque  is  a  canal  barge. 

467 


4t>0  SEUMAS    O  KELLY 

Then  a  man  rose  at  the  head  of  the  table.  He  was  a  spare  man 
with  drooping  mustachios,  a  penetrating  eye,  a  voice  that  sounded 
high  and  sharp  in  the  shed. 

Martin  Coughlan  stared  at  the  speaker.  Something  rare  and  un- 
suspected had  touched  his  life.  He  wondered  where  this  spare  man 
had  got  all  the  words.  They  came  out  in  a  steady  flow.  He  was  ob- 
viously aiming  at  something,  but  what  it  was  Martin  Coughlan  did 
not  know,  and,  indeed,  did  not  care.  It  was  sufficient  for  him  that  the 
words  came  on  and  on.  He  had  never  heard  any  mortal  before  keep- 
ing up  such  a  sustained  flood  of  speech.  Martin  Coughlan  leaned 
back,  delight  on  his  face. 

Another  man  rose.  He  spoke  even  better.  He  gesticulated  with 
energy.  The  others  began  to  slap  their  limbs  with  their  hands.  Mar- 
tin Coughlan  slapped  his  limbs,  feeling  he  was  privileged.  He  had 
begun  to  live. 

A  thick-set  man  followed.  His  voice  wakened  echoes  all  over  the 
place.  His  eyes  flashed  around,  seeking  one  face  now,  another  again. 
Suddenly  the  eyes  fell  on  Martin  Coughlan;  the  man  addressed  him 
as  if  he  were  appealing  to  an  intelligence!  He  argued  with  him, 
made  gestures  at  him,  deposited  all  his  logic  at  his  feet. 

Martin  Coughlan's  blood  began  to  heat.  He  felt  a  tingle  at  the 
curve  on  the  back  of  his  neck.  He  coughed  to  relieve  the  tension. 
Then  the  speaker's  gaze  wandered  to  somebody  else. 

The  talk  went  on  for  some  hours.  Men  grew  excited.  Several  spoke 
at  the  same  time  for  pregnant  minutes.  Martin  Coughlan  began 
to  perspire.  Once  he  shouted,  'Hear,  hear/  because  the  words  had 
begun  to  sound  familiar. 

When  the  Committee  meeting  broke  up  he  went  back  to  the  boat, 
his  cheeks  flaming,  feeling  that  he  had  done  it  all  himself.  He 
passed  Hike  on  the  way.  The  little  driver  looked  up  at  him  with 
respect.  The  dark-faced  man  was  sitting  on  a  box  by  the  stern. 

'The  meeting  over?'  he  asked. 

'Yes,'  Martin  Coughlan  said. 

His  voice  sounded  hoarse.  His  throat  felt  dry.  He  went  down  to 
the  keg  and  drank  a  mug  of  water. 

Afterwards  Martin  Coughlan  paced  the  deck  with  a  new  air.  He 
became  preoccupied.  Once  they  saw  him  gesticulating  at  a  bush  on 
the  bank.  He  took  a  new  tone  to  the  lock-keepers.  He  was  always 
clearing  his  throat. 


THE    MAN   WITH   THE   GIFT  469 

A  few  times  at  the  meals  they  thought  he  was  about  to  make  a 
speech.  But  something  always  overcame  him.  When  they  sounded 
him  as  to  the  Committee  proceedings  his  face  beamed. 

'There  was  speech-making,'  he  would  say. 

'What  did  they  say?' 

Martin  Coughlan  rose.  He  caught  the  lapel  of  his  coat;  struck  an 
attitude.  An  inspired  look  came  into  his  face.  But  no  words  followed. 
Instead  he  took  up  a  bucket  and  went  on  deck. 

'He's  a  great  man  for  the  Committee,'  they  said.  'He  won't  give 
the  show  away.' 

'Aye,  man,  but  that  fellow  is  knowing.  He  could  hold  a  Cabinet 
secret.' 

One  day  the  dark-faced  man  loaned  a  paper  at  a  village. 

'They  don't  give  the  speeches,'  he  said,  'but  there  is  the  name 
right  enough — Martin  Coughlan.' 

Martin  Coughlan  took  the  paper.  His  eyes  swam  as  he  spelled  out 
his  name.  He  pored  over  the  sheet  for  long  spells  throughout  the 
rest  of  the  evening.  When  the  men  were  turning  in  he  said:  'Boys, 
but  she's  a  brave  wee  paper.' 

He  got  a  candle,  and  sat  over  it,  spelling  everything  out,  including 
the  advertisements.  Then  he  sat  up,  delight  on  his  face,  the  look  in 
his  eyes  of  a  man  who  knew  he  had  achieved  something.  'Men,'  he 
said,  'I've  overhauled  her,  beam  and  aft,  stem  to  stern.' 

But  the  only  answer  was  a  chorus  of  heavy  snores.  He  turned  in 
with  a  grumble. 

There  was  another  Committee  meeting  soon  after.  The  speeches 
fell  on  his  head  like  dew  from  the  heavens.  Language!  Why,  the 
world  had  never  yet  heard  the  like.  Moreover,  he  became  conscious 
that  the  other  men  were  deferring  to  him  in  their  views.  He  sat 
there  as  solemn  as  a  judge,  the  greatest  listener  who  had  ever  arrived 
in  the  shed.  The  speakers  felt  that  they  had  at  last  got  hold  of  an 
audience,  a  man  of  appreciation.  Now  and  then  he  nodded  his  head 
in  approval.  It  was  worth  a  yard  of  debate.  When  he  shook  his  head 
in  disapproval  it  excited  the  speakers.  They  went  on  and  on,  fight- 
ing, arguing,  playing  for  his  opinion.  But  Martin  Coughlan  held 
to  his  silent  views  with  wonderful  pugnacity.  He  was  not  to  be 
cajoled. 

'What  were  they  at  last  night,  Martin?'  one  of  them  asked  after- 
wards. 


470  SEUMAS  o'kelly 

'That,'  said  Martin,  after  a  pause,  'is  a  secret/ 

'He's  too  close-minded,'  they  said.  'He  keeps  it  all  in  for  the  Com- 
mittee. It  must  be  something  to  hear  him  when  the  cork  is  off.' 

The  dark-faced  man  was  fond  of  the  paper.  He  got  it  regularly 
in  the  village.  'Here  we  are,'  he  said,  with  satisfaction.  'They  give  us 
the  speeches  this  time.  Now  we'll  know  what  Martin  Coughlan  had 
to  say  for  himself.' 

But  there  was  no  speech  from  Martin  Coughlan.  Everybody  had 
said  something  except  the  representative  from  The  Golden  Barque. 

The  dark-faced  man  made  a  complaint. 

'Don't  mind  the  paper,'  Martin  Coughlan  said.  'She  is  no  good. 
I  knew  from  the  first  she  had  sprung  a  leak.' 

But  he  felt  that  the  men  were  dissatisfied.  He  struck  an  attitude 
on  the  deck,  and  said:  'Mr.  Chairman  and  gentlemen — I  venture  to 
think.'  He  paused.  'To  my  mind,'  he  added.  There  was  another 
pause.  'I  say,  standing  here  to-night.'  He  looked  vaguely  over  the 
landscape.  T  beg  to  propose.'  And  then  he  took  a  little  run  up  and 
down  the  deck,  rubbing  his  hands  with  delight. 

'He's  too  clever,'  one  of  the  men  said.  'He  thinks  to  put  us  off  by 
play-acting.  It  won't  do.' 

Before  the  proceedings  of  the  next  Committee  meeting  began, 
Martin  Coughlan  took  the  secretary  aside.  The  secretary  was  a 
shrewd  person.  There  was  a  motion  on  the  agenda  to  give  him  a 
salary. 

'John,'  said  Martin  Coughlan,  with  familiarity,  T  want  you  to  tell 
me  how  it  is  done.' 

'How  is  what  done?' 

'The  speeches,  you  know;  the  language,  the  words,  the  talk  they 
do  have.' 

John  was  puzzled.  Then  a  light  broke  upon  him. 

'Well,'  he  said,  'a  man  must  have  it  in  him.' 

'Have  what  in  him?' 

John  hesitated,  thought,  and  said,  'The  gift.' 

Martin  Coughlan  was  crestfallen.  He  felt  there  was  something  in 
life  he  had  let  slip. 

'Where  would  there  be  likelihood  of  getting  the  gift?'  he  asked  at 
last. 

T  don't  know,'  the  other  replied.  'It  comes  from  within.' 

'Oh,  I  see,'  Martin  Coughlan  said,  more  cheerfully.  Then  he  con- 


THE    MAN   WITH   THE   GIFT  471 

fided.  'J°hn,  I  have  it  within  in  the  inside  of  me.  Language,  great 
language.  But  I  can't  get  it  out/ 

'Have  courage,'  the  other  said.  'Take  your  chance.  Get  up  on 
your  legs.  Face  them.  When  you  do  that  the  words  will  flow  out  of 
you.' 

'Do  you  think  they  will,  John?' 

'Sure.'  John  was  a  man  persuasive,  one  who  carried  conviction,  in- 
spired hope — and  drew  salaries. 

'Then  there  is  that  wee  paper,  John.  If  I'd  come  out  with  the 
words,  they  would  be  there,  of  course.  They  do  be  reading  her,  look- 
ing out  for  what  a  man  might  say.' 

'Oh,  that's  it,  is  it,  Martin?'  John  asked,  then  patted  the  other  on 
the  back.  'That  will  be  all  right,  old  man.  Leave  that  to  me.  Vote 
straight  on  the  salary  question,  and  the  goods  will  be  delivered  to 
you  on  the  paper.' 

'Thanks,  John;  I  will.' 

At  a  critical  moment  in  the  debate,  Martin  Coughlan  rose.  He 
went  over  to  the  table,  rapped  his  knuckles  upon  it  to  command  at- 
tention, jerked  the  collar  of  his  coat  about  his  neck.  He  struck  the 
attitude  he  had  rehearsed  aboard.  It  was  reminiscent  of  various  stat- 
ues erected  to  the  memory  of  great  orators. 

He  looked  up  and  down  the  shed.  A  hush  fell  upon  the  assembly. 
Men  leaned  back  to  hear  what  the  silent  man,  the  audience,  the  one 
man  of  reticence  among  them,  had  to  say  at  this  crisis. 

'Mr.  Chairman  and  Mr.  Gentlemen,'  Martin  Coughlan  began, 
blundering  through  nervousness. 

There  was  a  laugh.  Martin  Coughlan  moistened  his  lips  with  his 
tongue,  for  they  were  dry  and  inclined  to  stick.  One  of  his  knees 
struck  against  the  other.  Then  he  had  to  clear  a  lump  from  his  throat. 

'John,  our  secretary,'  he  said  at  last,  'told  me  that  if  I  stood  up 
on  me  legs  the  words  would  flow  out  from  within  the  inside  of  me/ 

He  hesitated,  looking  about  him  in  a  panic,  a  queer  feeling  of  col- 
lapse in  his  brain.  He  smiled  a  ghastly  smile. 

'Go  on,'  said  the  chairman. 

'He  said,'  Martin  Coughlan  resumed,  his  voice  falling  to  an  echo, 
'that  if  I  faced  you  they  would  flow  out  of  me.  But — by  heavens — 
they  won't.'  He  sat  down.  There  was  a  burst  of  laughter  and  ap- 
plause. 

The  men  stared  at  Martin  Coughlan.  There  was  that  mixture  of 


472  SEUMAS  o'kelly 

scepticism,  enjoyment,  malicious  delight,  in  their  glances  that  fastens 
upon  all  fallen  gods.  They  were  taking  their  fun  out  of  an  exposure, 
the  showing  up  of  an  emptiness  that  wore  a  mask,  the  betrayal  of 
that  discretion  which  is  only  a  dullness. 

Martin  Coughlan  was  too  heated,  too  full  of  confusion,  to  notice 
their  crude  levity.  By  the  time  he  had  recovered  himself  they  had 
dropped  him.  They  no  longer  deferred  to  him.  He  was  no  longer  ap- 
pealed to  as  an  intelligence.  He  drew  back  instinctively  to  the  shad- 
ows, and  he  sat  there  until  the  meeting  broke  up. 

When  he  reached  his  boat  the  men  greeted  him  with  deference. 
He  muttered  something  and  went  down  to  the  cabin.  He  stayed 
there  for  the  rest  of  the  night. 

'The  Committee,'  he  said  to  the  dark-faced  man  next  day,  'is  a  rot- 
ten Committee.' 

T  thought  that  all  along,'  the  other  replied.  'But  I  didn't  like  to 
say  it,  seeing  you  were  a  great  one  on  it.' 

'And  an  ignorant  Committee,'  Martin  Coughlan  added. 

It  is  that.' 

But  by  the  end  of  the  week  the  paper  was  out.  The  dark-faced 
man,  after  reading  it,  looked  up  at  Martin  Coughlan  and  then  went 
to  him. 

'Look  here,  Boss,'  he  said,  putting  out  his  hand,  'shake  hands.' 

They  shook  hands,  Martin  Coughlan  nervously. 

Tt  was  a  great  speech,'  the  dark-faced  man  said.  'You're  wasting 
your  time  on  this  boat.' 

Martin  Coughlan  blushed;  his  gaze  was  uncertain.  The  other  left 
him  the  paper. 

He  sat  on  a  barrel  and  opened  the  sheet.  There  was  his  name  in 
print  again!  He  spelled  it  out  slowly.  'Mr.  Martin  Coughlan,  who 

was  received  with  loud  applause,  said ,'  and  there  followed 

over  a  column  of  type,  of  words,  of  language,  of  a  speech.  He  read  it 
over  with  a  thumping  heart.  It  was  dotted  with  'hear,  hear,'  'ap- 
plause,' and  'cheers.'  When  he  finished,  he  stood  up  and  walked 
the  deck,  his  thick  limbs  outspread,  his  flat  feet  solid  on  the  planks, 
his  chest  out. 

'Is  it  a  good  report,  Boss?'  they  asked. 

Tt  is  very  fair,  very  fair,  men,'  he  said,  with  toleration. 

'Man,  but  I'd  like  to  hear  it  coming  out.' 

'No  doubt  you  would.' 

'We'll  hear  you  some  time.' 


THE    MAN   WITH   THE   GIFT  473 

'You  will,  why  not,  to  be  sure/ 

He  ran  his  fingers  through  his  hair.  He  drilled  spaces,  vague 
spaces,  through  the  familiar  landscape  with  his  gaze.  His  blood  rose 
gradually,  eventually  flooding  his  face  until  it  grew  purple  in  colour, 
rising  as  steadily  as  if  somebody  had  lifted  the  sluice  of  a  flood-gate. 

'God,  the  language  of  it,'  he  repeated  to  himself  over  and  over 
again  throughout  the  day.  ■ 

For  the  first  time  in  his  life,  he  refused  to  go  into  The  Haven 
when  they  had  made  the  journey  across  the  bog.  Instead  he  went 
into  the  cabin,  and  alone  spelt  the  speech  over  and  over  again. 

Gradually  his  mind  got  over  the  habit  of  thinking  of  it  as  some- 
thing apart,  something  outside  his  own  life.  He  no  longer  said, 
'God,  the  language  of  it.'  Instead  he  muttered,  'Great  language; 
splendid  talk;  just  the  thing.  That's  it.  That's  what  I'd  say.  That's  the 
very  word  I'd  say.  I  declare  I  think  it  was  the  word  I  said.  It  was  go- 
ing through  my  head  at  the  time.  I  must  have  said  that  very  word.  If 
I  did  not,  I  intended  it.  But  I  forget  what  I  said.  Maybe  I  said  it.  To 
be  sure  I  said  it.  Of  course  I  said  it.  Why  not?  The  very  word;  no, 
but  the  very  words.  If  I  said  one  word  I  must  have  said  another.  I 
could  not  help  following  up  one  word  with  another.  What  was  to 
stop  me?  Nothing.  I  went  on  that  very  way.  One  word  borrowed  an- 
other. What  else  could  it  do.  To  be  sure  I  said  it.  In  fact,  it's  all  what 
I  said,  word  for  word/ 

He  went  on  persuading  himself  until  the  others  came  back  from 
The  Haven. 

He  went  up  to  the  dark-faced  man. 

T  tell  you  what  it  is,  it's  a  very  fine  report;  a  very  good  report;  a 
tip-top  report.  Word  for  word  there  it  is,  in  black  and  in  white.'  He 
struck  one  fist  in  the  other. 

'Boss,'  the  other  said,  something  almost  approaching  reverence  in 
his  long,  narrow  face,  'you're  a  great  one,  a  gifted  one.  For  to  turn 
round  and  say  the  like  of  what  you  said,  a  man  must  have  the  gift/ 

'To  be  sure  he  must,'  Martin  Coughlan  agreed,  taking  some  steps 
along  by  the  cargo  covered  with  great  oil-cloths.  'I  told  John,  the 
secretary,  I  had  it  within  in  the  inside  of  me.  And  what  had  I 
within  in  the  inside  of  me,  I  ask  you,  men?  The  gift!' 

'Well,  thank  God  we'll  all  hear  you  soon,'  the  dark-faced  man 
said.  'There's  a  public  meeting  coming  on.' 

Martin  Coughlan  drew  a  long  breath.   'You  don't  tell  me  so?' 

'I  do.  We  had  word  of  it  in  The  Haven.  There  is  to  be  speech- 


474  SEUMAS  o'kelly 

making,  and  great  speech-making.  We'll  expect  you  that  day 
to  show  the  great  gift  that's  in  you.' 

'You  will,  to  be  sure,'  Martin  Coughlan  said,  but  without  enthu- 
siasm. He  ran  his  fingers  through  his  hair.  Then  he  walked  away 
from  the  others,  standing  at  the  prow  of  the  boat,  his  sturdy  figure 
solid  against  the  water. 

'A  great  one  he  is  for  the  gab,'  the  grotesque-looking  man  said 
irreverently.  'Look  at  the  two  powerful  limbs  he  has  holding  him 
up  from  the  ground.' 

After  that  Martin  Coughlan  grew  very  subdued,  silent,  avoiding 
the  topic  of  the  coming  meeting.  The  men  said  he  was  bottling  him- 
self up  for  the  big  occasion.  They  noted  that  he  still  pored  over  the 
paper  that  contained  his  speech.  He  would  lie  back  in  his  bunk  at 
night,  a  candle  fixed  by  his  side,  drilling  through  the  speech.  Once 
or  twice  the  men  heard  him  muttering  to  himself  like  a  boy  grap- 
pling with  a  lesson.  In  these  days  it  was  noted  that  some  of  the 
colour  left  his  face.  A  certain  pensiveness  crept  into  his  expression. 

'Boss,'  one  of  the  men  asked  him,  'are  you  in  pain?' 

T  am,'  Martin  Coughlan  answered,  and  walked  sadly  away. 

Once  the  men  wakened  to  hear  him  pacing  the  deck  in  the  mid- 
dle of  the  night.  The  dark-faced  man  went  up  the  ladder  and 
popped  his  vignette  over  the  hold.  He  came  back  after  a  time. 

'He's  on  deck  in  his  shirt,'  he  said.  'The  moon  is  shining  on  him, 
his  legs  are  like  two  white  pillars  under  the  tiller.  He  has  that  paper 
with  him.  I  heard  him  giving  out  a  few  words.  He  was  losing  them, 
trying  to  catch  them  up  again,  stumbling  and  staggering  over  them 
like  a  man  that  would  be  raving.  Then  he  would  run  his  hands 
through  his  hair,  and  the  wind  blowing  the  shirt  about  the  white 
pillars.' 

'Be  the  powers,'  said  the  grotesque  man,  turning  over  in  his  bunk, 
'It's  a  chilly  sort  of  a  night,  and  I'm  glad  I  have  not  the  gift.' 

As  the  day  of  the  meeting  approached,  and  it  became  more  and 
more  a  topic  of  conversation,  Martin  Coughlan's  depression  in- 
creased. Something  seemed  to  weigh  him  down.  He  took  the  dark- 
faced  man  aside. 

'You  know  this  meeting  is  got  up  by  the  Committee?'  he  said. 

'I  do.' 

'And  you  can  call  to  mind  what  I  told  you  of  that  Committee  a 
long  while  ago.  I  said  it  was  a  rotten  Committee/ 

'You  did.  I  remember  that/ 


THE   MAN   WITH   THE   GIFT  475 

'And  I  said  it  was  an  ignorant  Committee.' 

'You  did,  right  enough/ 

'You  agreed  with  me.  We  were  at  one  as  regards  this  Commit- 
tee. Very  well,  I'm  not  going  to  give  that  Committee  the  satisfaction 
of  making  a  speech  for  them.' 

'Now,  that  would  be  a  pity  and  you  having  the  gift.' 

'There  you  are!  That's  what  makes  me  do  it.  How  can  a  man  of 
gift  speak  for  a  rotten,  ignorant  Committee?' 

To  the  dark-faced  man  this  was  a  poser.  Perhaps  in  that  moment 
of  expediency,  of  pressure,  Martin  Coughlan  showed  that  he  had, 
after  all,  some  talent  for  politics. 

He  walked  down  the  deck  with  a  stride. 

'Never!'  he  exclaimed  with  decision,  waving  his  arms. 

The  meeting  came  off  without  Martin  Coughlan.  He  did  not 
even  attend.  He  'sent  word'  to  strike  his  name  off  the  Committee. 

'We  will,  indeed,'  one  of  the  men  said.  'Little  good  any  such  tame 
ducks  is  to  anyone.' 

The  men  from  The  Golden  Barque  were  disappointed  that  Mar- 
tin Coughlan  did  not  pour  forth  his  eloquence  at  the  assembly. 
They  somehow  regarded  him  as  in  some  way  wronged.  But  he  be- 
came more  cheerful  himself.  He  began  to  whistle  again  as  he  moved 
around  the  boat.  His  flat  feet  became  more  than  ever  a  part  of  the 
ritual  of  the  deck.  The  curve  at  the  back  of  his  neck  threw  out  his 
head  another  degree.  His  eyes  became  more  palely  yellow.  They 
went  on  digging  imaginary  canals  in  the  landscape.  He  was  as 
happy  as  a  duck  in  the  water.  Once  the  dark-faced  man  asked: 
'Boss,  what  became  of  the  paper  with  your  speech  in  it?' 

'Oh,  yon  rag!'  Martin  Coughlan  made  answer.  'I  rolled  her  up 
in  a  stone,  and  she's  at  the  bottom  a  wheen  of  weeks.' 


OLIVER     ST. JOHN     GOGARTY 

Tall  Hats  and  Churns1 


1  oday  i  will  be  a  millionaire.  I  will  do  just  as  I  please.  Have  I 
come  into  millions?  Yes.  The  heavens  have  endowed  me:  it  is  a  fine 
day  in  Dublin,  and  my  tastes  are  more  than  money  can  buy.  I  have 
never  confused  money  with  wealth,  that  is  why  I  am  a  millionaire:  I 
am  as  wealthy  as  any,  though  not  as  monied  as  the  least.  What  are 
my  wants?  Already  I  have  the  first  of  them  gratified — it  is  a  fine  day 
in  Dublin;  and  the  second,  which  needs  a  high  barometric  pressure 
to  fulfill,  has  got  it.  Freedom  from  the  tyranny  of  meals,  appoint- 
ments and  even  friends,  any  man  can  have  by  embracing  Sister  Pov- 
erty; but  there  is  one  thing  that  she  must  give  me  in  return  for  my 
attentions,  and  that  she  cannot  give — the  power  of  unimpeded 
movement.  Her  vehicles  are  the  ambulance  or  the  Black  Maria.  I 
would  desert  her  for  a  Baby  Ford. 

A  child  has  an  extra  appetite;  one  in  addition  at  least  to  those  a 
grown  person  has — it  is  the  necessity  for  movement.  To  keep  a 
child  motionless  would  as  assuredly  kill  it  as  it  would  kill  an  old  man 
to  confine  him  to  bed.  Young  and  old  must  move;  and  the  desire  for 
movement  is  overflowing  into  the  hunger  for  speed.  The  eternal 
feminine,  the  female  force  in  Nature,  led  the  men  of  old  upward; 
speed  is  taking  her  place  in  this  generation.  What  is  at  the  back  of 
this  hunger  for  and  need  of  speed? 

Just  as  there  are  tribes  who  are  unacquainted  with  the  facts  of 
parenthood,  with  children  who  do  not  know  their  fathers,  so  we  are 
unaware  of  our  heavenly  descent,  our  cosmic  relationship.  And  yet 
the  thrill  of  the  electric  atoms  which  make  up  the  substance  of  our 
bodies  is  slowly  being  felt  and  interpreted  in  terms  of  Speed.  Our 
bodies  are  desirous  of  swift  movement  now:  Speed  for  speed's  sake. 
Soon  our  minds  will  realise  the  electric  nature  of  our  being  and 
deliberately  direct  our  bodies'  movements  towards  the  All-mover, 
the  Primum  Mobile  whose  glory  thrills  and  penetrates  the  universe. 

Call  them  profanely  protons  and  electrons,  these  are  but  names 
for  matter  in  the  immeasurable  Mystery  of  Being  which  vibrates 
through  the  whole  of  space,  or  rather  of  creation.  The  body  is  vi- 
brating in  harmony  with  the  universe.  The  more  we  grow  conscious 
of  this,  the  more  we  will  to  move.  Movement  is  the  ritual  and  recog- 

1  From  As  I  Was  Going  Down  Sackville  Street,  New  York,  1937. 

476 


TALL   HATS    AND   CHURNS  477 

nition  of  the  divine  nature  of  our  substance.  It  is  a  recoil  from  that 
which  is  dead,  an  act  of  life.  To  satisfy  the  desire  and  to  make 
an  action  of  recognition,  the  power  to  move  must  be  provided.  Else 
we  remain  still  as  death. 

My  motor,  therefore,  takes  me  far  to-day  from  the  Eternal  Fem- 
inine of  the  Viceregal  Lodge  with  her  gentil  babil,  into  the  hills  or 
even  into  the  air.  I  will  arise  and  go  into  the  granite  mountains, 
and  sit  on  a  stone  in  the  middle  of  a  little  yard-wide  rill,  and  watch 
the  water  move  over  the  clean  golden  sands,  or  by  a  heathery  stream 
watch  the  sub-aqueous  grasses  wave,  while  far  above  go  the  high 
cumulus  clouds  that  look  down  upon  it  all. 

I  remember  once  Talbot  Clifton  asking  me,  'What  the  devil  were 
you  doing  on  that  hill?  You  had  no  gun.' 

There  was  not  the  least  use  in  trying  to  answer  him.  The  answer 
would,  for  peace  and  for  understanding's  sake,  have  to  be  'noth- 
ing.' And  that  would  seem  an  offensive  and  unsatisfactory  reply. 
He  did  not  know  that  I  was  a  millionaire  and  can  let  others  shoot 
my  imaginary  birds  and  catch  all  my  fish  but  the  Salmon  of  Knowl- 
edge. 

With  these  blanketing  clouds  there  will  be  a  warm  dell  above 
Ticknock,  where  I  can  do  nothing  until  it  is  time  to  fall  down  on 
Dundrum  and  give  Yeats  the  Governor-General's  invitation.  Will  he 
accept  it?  Of  course  not,  at  first;  but  a  little  strategy,  a  little  strat- 
egy. I  have  already  in  my  mind  a  little  scheme  to  endow  him  with 
the  necessary  distinction.  He  must  be  made  to  see  that  he  has  an  op- 
portunity to  take  up  the  position  which  he  likes  beyond  all  others: 
the  position  from  which  he  can  both  dominate  and  endow. 

His  mind  provides  me  with  a  realm  of  beauty  beyond  the  beauty 
of  Woman.  It  will  be  a  relief  to  be  independent  in  thought  for  an 
hour  or  two  while  I  sail  in  the  shadowy  waters  or  sit  with 
Cuchullain  grown  old.  Seven  lean  years  he  endured  of  love,  only  to 
win  at  the  end  emancipation  from — what  was  it  the  aged  Sopho- 
cles called  Love? — 'a  relentless  master.' 

Now  he  leaves  to  Love  the  perf ervid  sunlight.  He  has  refracted  his 
rays,  as  it  were,  through  the  pearl  of  Paradise,  and  they  fall  with 
so  gentle  a  softness  that  they  are  only  visible  under  the  moon.  How 
different  this  from  George  Moore,  caught  in  the  ugly  snare  and 
wry-twisted  with  curiosity;  how  different  even  from  Keats,  whom 
he  makes  to  appear  somewhat  treacly  and  relaxed.  Keats,  Gates, 
Yeats:  etymologically  these  three  names  are  one  and  the  same.  They 


478  OLIVER  ST.  JOHN  GOG  ARTY 

are  names  found  in  Cornwall.  So  Keats  and  Yeats  are  neither  Eng- 
lish nor  Irish  originally,  but  Cornish.  And  Yeats'  mother  being  a 
Pollexfen  makes  Yeats  closer  to  Cornwall  than  Keats,  and  closer  to 
Parnassus  as  it  rises  to  our  modern  eyes.  I  must  remember  that: 
Cornish!  He  will  be  delighted  to  hear  it.  He  is  growing  somewhat 
tired  of  being  irretrievably  Irish,  which  has  come  lately  to  mean 
Gaelic,  which  means  nothing.  He  wants  a  change.  But  with  Yeats  a 
Cornishman!  He  shall  have  sailed  with  Tristram,  sung  hopelessly  of 
Iseult  for  seven  long  years  and  reproved  the  facetious  Dinadan. 
And  he  shall  disapprove  of  present  times  before  I  have  done  with 
him.  Already  I  hear  the  sailors  singing  the  oldest  sea  chanties  as 
they  near  Tintagel,  where  Yeats  is  waiting  beside  King  Mark. 

They  rowed  hard,  and  sung  thereto 
With  Heveloe,  and  Rumbaloo! 

It's  enough  to  give  him,  with  this  new  outlook,  a  new  lease  of 
life.  And  that  is  the  function  of  anyone  who  is  a  wellwisher  of  the 
Muses'  mighty  son.  And  he  can  find  an  excuse  to  escape  from  bore- 
dom, which  is  the  only  thing  that  ages,  an  excuse  to  get  out  of  the 
Kildare  Street  Club. 

I  will  gather  myself  up  and  hurry  down.  I  can  see  the  old  grey 
mole  of  De  Lacy's  Castle  from  here,  and  past  it  the  Yellow 
House;  a  mile  this  side  is  Yeats.  Yes.  Yes.  How  pleased  he  will  be! 
But,  of  course,  he  has  to  discover  this  lineage  for  himself. 

Why  did  I  not  think  of  this  before?  There  could  not  be  a  Gaelic 
Yeats.  It  won't  take  'O'  or  'Mac'  as  a  prefix.  Now  that  he  is  re- 
covering from  a  cold,  is  the  very  time  for  a  change  to  complete  the 
cure  and  put  him  up  for  the  Round  Table.  He  will  elect  himself. 
Merlin  will  not  be  in  it  with  me  as  a  magician!  He  had  better  be 
Sir  Lancelot  than  Sir  Tristram,  for  'Lancelot  was  better  breathed/ 

Yeats  lives  in  Rathfarnham  in  an  old  house  in  lovely  grounds,  a 
house  built  before  cement  took  the  place  of  stone  and  thin-walled 
clangour  for  the  stately  repose  and  long  silence  of  continuous  dwell- 
ing. His  gate  is  on  a  bridge  which  spans  a  stream  fresh  from  the 
golden  granite  of  the  hills.  The  walk  rises  through  a  well-gardened 
wilderness  of  flowering  shrubs,  and  the  old  grey  house  is  screened 
by  a  blossoming  orchard.  His  croquet  lawn  is  beside  it,  and  the  hills 
form  an  ever-changing  picture  as  deep  and  as  glowing  in  colour  as 
a  picture  by  his  brother,  Jack  Yeats,  in  his  latest  style.  The  door  faces 


TALL   HATS    AND   CHURNS  479 

you.  'Yeats'  on  a  heart-shaped  brass  knocker.  As  it  used  to  be  simply 
'Yeats'  on  his  London  house  in  Woburn  Place  before  the  place  was 
demolished. 

'I  am  glad  you  have  come,'  he  said,  'you  are  the  very  man  I 
want  to  see.  I  have  just  been  reading  George  Moore's  Memoirs  of 
My  Dead  Life.  And  a  question  keeps  rising  in  my  mind  which  you 
can  answer.  Take  that  seat  there.  This  is  the  question:  Do  you  think 
George  Moore  was  impotent?' 

The  great  Cornishman  was  sitting  up  among  his  pillows,  his  mag- 
nificent head,  with  its  crown  of  white  hair  and  satin-like  brown  skin, 
toning  well  with  the  fawn  dressing-gown  he  wore.  His  nose,  like  an 
eagle's,  was  broadest  between  the  eyes.  At  the  foot  of  the  bed  a  gas- 
fire  burned;  outside  the  open  window  birds  were  seeking  food  in  a 
coconut  shell  which  he  had  fastened  to  the  sill.  He  was  recovering 
from  a  cold  and  'enjoying  his  illness'  for  the  peace  it  provided  and 
for  the  immunity  it  gave  him  from  his  friends. 

Good  Lord!  but  aloud:  T  don't  know.  It  is  rare  for  a  man  to  be  im- 
potent. He  may  be  unable  to  propagate,  but  organic  impotence 
must  be  very  rare.' 

'Was  he  a  man?' 

'He  had  the  pelvis  of  a  woman,  as  artists  are  said  to  have.  There  is 
little  to  be  deduced  from  that.  The  only  arguments  that  come  to  my 
mind  are  based  on  deduction  more  than  on  facts  physical  or  other- 
wise.' 

'Well,  go  on.' 

'Take  the  evidence  of  women.  Susan  Mitchell  sensed  something 
lacking.  Women  are  like  that.  She  wrote,  "Some  men  kiss  and  do  not 
tell,  some  kiss  and  tell;  but  George  Moore  told  and  did  not  kiss." 
Kiss  may  mean  .  .  .  Well,  she  was  hardly  likely  to  say  more.' 

'Go  on.' 

'You  remember  Goethe  says' — how  well  Yeats  remembered, 
I  knew,  for  I  remembered  long  ago  mentioning  Goethe  to  Moore, 
and  Moore  pointing  to  Beckermann's  Life  of  Goethe  and  saying 
with  a  snigger:  'That's  where  Yeats  gets  all  his  information.  That's 
his  text-book' — 'that  the  "passing  of  a  genius  is  measured  by  the 
woman  it  leaves  behind."  Now,  where  are  Moore's  surviving  lady 
friends?' 

'There's  one.' 

'Qh,  we  all  know!  But  did  Moore  hold  her  exclusive  affection? 
He  did  not.  She  was  faithful  to  him  only  in  her  infidelities,  splen- 


480  OLIVER    ST.    JOHN   GOGARTY 

dide  mendax.  "I  could  not  love  thee,  Moore,  so  much,  loved  I  not 
others  more."  That's  argument  number  one.  Then,  one  evening  I 
sat  with  him  in  his  bedroom  in  Ebury  Street.  He  was  recounting 
with  a  reminiscence  so  devoid  of  melancholy  that  I  suspected  it  was 
but  a  work  of  the  creative  imagination.  Suddenly  he  looked  at 
the  rug  in  front  of  the  fire  and  addressed  it  and  me:  "O  rug,  thou 
could'st  tell  many  a  pleasant  tale  of  love!"  What's  wrong  with  the 
bed?  thought  I.' 

'Exactly,'  Yeats  exclaimed,  with  the  excitement  of  a  triumphant 
detective,  jerking  himself  up  in  the  bed.  'Exactly!  His  accounts  of 
his  adventures  are  all  one-sided.  There  never  is —  he  never  gives 
one  a  distinct  feeling  for  the  woman  in  the  case.  I  have  just  been 
reading  these  Memoirs,  and  I  am  wondering  more  than  ever  what 
form  his  impotence  took.  I  remembered  this:  He  was  passing  along 
Merrion  Square  one  night  with  Best  and  he  saw  couples  standing 
upright,  standing  immobile,  speechless,  with  heads  on  one  another's 
shoulders.  "But  they  are  not  saying  a  word!"  he  exclaimed.  "I  wish  I 
could  do  that!  Best,  could  you  do  that?"  Best  laughed  and  said  that  it 
was  about  the  only  thing  anybody  could  do.  But  psychologically  it 
reveals  that  Moore  never  felt  the  all  sufficing  silence  of  Love.  His 
scenes  leave  you  with  no  account  of  the  woman.  It  is  only  of  his 
own  sensations  he  talks.  Now  we  all  know  a  woman  has  far  fiercer 
sensations  than  a  man.  She  cannot  conceal  them.  She  cries  out. 
Moore  never  tells  what  the  woman  did.  Why?' — pointing  and  shak- 
ing his  finger  at  me — 'Because  she  was  not  there!' 

'A  woman  in  Paris  told  me  that  the  earlier  emotions  are  apt  to  be- 
come obliterated  by  the  later.  Moore  only  recounts  his  earlier  emo- 
tions!' 

I  said:  T  consulted  a  woman  novelist  about  the  Moore  problem 
and  I  put  the  objection  regarding  the  one-sidedness  of  his 
love  scenes.  "The  Lovers  of  Orelay,"  for  instance,  where  there  is 
more  writing  about  the  locale  than  the  love.' 

'What  did  she  say?' 

'That  Moore  was  an  artist  and  was  both  sided,  woman  and  man,  as 
artists  should  be.' 

'She  was  a  woman  novelist,  you  say?  That  accounts  for  her  de- 
fending him.  His  works  are  admired  particularly  by  women.' 

'Wait!  I  begin  to  see  a  further  argument  for  your  thesis  in  that. 
Women  admire  him  because  they  feel  instinctively  that  he  can 
never  give  them  away.' 


TALL   HATS   AND   CHURNS  481 

'Admirable!' 

'Love  must  have  ever  been  to  Moore  "All  a  wonder  and  a  wild 
desire."  His  curiosity  was  undiminished,  and  yet,  it  could  be  argued 
that  that  was  chiefly  a  proof  that  his  interest  in  women  was  undi- 
minished. An  argument  in  his  favour.' 

'Would  you  mind  closing  that  window?  The  birds  will  not  come 
back  until  it's  down.  I  interrupted  you?' 

'Not  at  all.  I  remember  since  we  spoke  of  the  absence  of  the 
woman  from  Moore's  description  of  his  love  scenes,  his  telling  me 
of  something  a  lover — no,  he  preferred  to  call  her  a  mistress — of  his 
was  supposed  to  remark  .  .  .  it  is  so  much  on  the  lines  of  the  igno- 
rance he  revealed  to  Best  that  I  forbear  telling  it;  but  you  may  take 
it  that  now  I  come  to  think  of  it,  it  bears  out  the  conclusion  we 
come  to  from  what  he  said  to  Best.' 

'What  was  that?' 

'Oh,  never  mind.  But  don't  you  remember  the  way  in  which  he 
tried  to  make  me  personate  him  in  Vienna  shortly  after  I  had 
returned  from  that  most  delightful  of  cities?' 

'When  the  lady  that  admired  his  work  theatened  to  come  to  Dub- 
lin so  that  she  might  bear  a  child  of  his?' 

'Precisely.  She  was,  according  to  Moore,  a  beautiful  Viennese  .  .  .' 

'And  you  had  just  come  back  from  Vienna.  That's  what  gave  him 
the  idea.  The  idea  of  the  Viennese  admirer.  You  had  been  extolling 
Vienna?' 

'Very  likely.' 

'Go  on.' 

'  "How  am  I  to  know  her?  And  do  you  imagine  for  a  moment  that 
she  will  not  find  me  out?"  I  objected. 

'  "My  dear  fellow,  I  will  show  you  her  photograph.  And  as  for  find- 
ing you  out,  she  only  admires  my  work,  she  does  not  know  me,  and 
that  is  why  she  insists  on  bearing  a  child  to  me." ' 

'Yes!  Yes!  Go  on.' 

'Having,  so  to  speak,  screwed  my  courage  to  the  sticking-place,  I 
asked  to  see  the  photograph.' 

'And  did  you  see  it?' 

T  cannot  remember.' 

'Try  to  think.' 

T  did  see  a  photograph,  but  he  might  have  forgotten  that  he  had 
shown  it  to  me  before  I  left  for  Vienna  the  year  before.  It  may  have 
been  the  photograph  he  used  for  Pearl  Craigie  .  .  .' 


been 


482  OLIVER    ST.    JOHN   GOG  ARTY 

'Now,  listen  to  me.  I  saw  that  photograph,  yellow  with  age.  It  had 
become,  when  I  saw  it,  the  photograph  of  a  beautiful  Virginian 
who  was  threatening  to  come  to  him  from  America  desirous  of  his 
services.  He  wrote  a  play  about  it.  That  was  all/ 

Yeats  lit  the  lamp  beside  his  bed.  The  birds  were  twittering  in  his 
apple-trees,  settling  for  the  night.  I  might  open  the  window  now. 

'After  all,  he  was  a  great  artist  and  greatly  loved  art/  I  said.  'He 
was  a  devotee  to  that  and  creative  in  that  sphere  at  all  events.  He 
was  a  great  person  and  he  never  forgot  it.  His  air  of  perpetual  can- 
tankerousness  was  to  defend  himself  from  rational  little  critics 
"while  the  work  was  in  progress";  to  defend  himself  from  Reality  and 
common-sense.  Had  he  not  said,  "We  must  keep  up  the  illusion?" 
And  while  he  attended  to  his  garden,  the  garden  of  his  prose,  he 
resented  what  anyone  can  have  if  they  bear  fools  gladly — comments/ 

But  while  Moore  wrote  much  about  Yeats,  Yeats  remained  si- 
lent about  his  contemporary.  Why  was  this?  I  think  that  Moore's 
inordinate  jealousy,  a  jealousy  which  flew  at  the  fame  of  Hardy  like 
a  pettish  child,  realised  a  greater  genius  in  Yeats  than  he  possessed, 
and  so  he  tried  to  subject  by  ridicule  what  he  could  never  have  out- 
shone. Yeats  disliked  Moore,  first  of  all  for  his  'position' — a  land- 
lord— and  then  because  he  was  attacked  by  Moore  before  his 
friends.  Also,  Yeats  feels  that  his  words  may  easily  confer  fame,  since 
he  has  never  allowed  his  literary  judgment  to  be  persuaded.  Mak- 
ing your  rival  ridiculous  is  the  chief  aim  of  Irish  opponents  since 
the  duel  was  abolished.  And  in  his  trilogy  Ave,  Salve,  Vale, 
Moore  mocked  at  Yeats.  Ave  atque  Vale,  I  have  recorded  it  was  at 
first,  until  he  pilloried  Professor  Tyrrell,  who  aware  of  Moore's  igno- 
rance, remarked  on  hearing  of  his  portrait  drawn  by  Moore,  'Moore 
is  one  of  those  fellows  who  think  that  "Atque"  is  a  Roman  centu- 
rion.' 

The  problems  that  confront  the  mind  of  man  are  innumerable, 
some  of  them  incalculable.  My  problem  was  not  one  of  those  which 
may  be  described  somewhat  hyperbolically  as  vital;  nevertheless 
it  was,  considered  from  the  point  of  view  of  Art,  a  cardinal  one  on 
which  much  hinged.  And  I  was  nearly  forgetting  it!  I  had  to  per- 
suade a  real  poet  to  accept  an  invitation  to  a  pseudo  court.  Yeats  is 
the  greatest  poet  of  this  and  of  most  of  the  last  generation.  Tenny- 
son, his  predecessor,  built  a  world  of  song  on  ready-made  founda- 
tions. Yeats  had  to  create  it  all  from  'airy  nothing';  and  to  protect 
it  from  marauding  hands.  I  had  to  persuade  him  to  accept  a  word-of- 


TALL   HATS    AND   CHURNS  483 

mouth  invitation  to  the  opening  ceremony  of  the  Spring  Show.1  The 
Show  might  have  opened  itself,  but  its  success  was  contributed  to 
by  the  presence  of  His  Majesty's  representative.  Dublin  is  loyal  at 
Ballsbridge.  Horses  connote  knights,  'Men  who  ride  upon  horses' 
(I  will  quote  Yeats  to  himself),  and  therefore  courtliness.  This 
may  help  me  to  persuade  the  poet  to  join  the  'Distinguished  Visitors' 
in  the  'Royal'  box. 

'By  the  way,  Yeats,  the  Governor-General  has  asked  me  to  invite 
you  to  the  opening  of  the  Spring  Show.  He  will  be  in  his  private 
box,  and  we  can  go  up  to  it  or  take  tea  under  it  in  his  private  apart- 
ments.' 

T  will  not  go.  I  am  suffering  from  a  cold/ 

'You  are  not,  but  you  are  making  your  friends  suffer  from  your 
cold.' 

T  will  not  abet  this  trumpery  mockery  of  a  throne.  I  will  not  meet 
Tim  Healy2  or  Lady  Lavery  in  the  Royal  box.  Really  I  am  sur- 
prised that  you  take  this  mummery  of  kingship  seriously.' 

'No.  I  do  not;  but  I  think  that  in  the  Decline  and  Fall  of  the 
British  Empire  in  Ireland,  and  Ireland  with  it,  you  and  I  should 
stand  like  your  Triton  in  the  stream,  and  resist  the  lapse  from 
grandeur  with  dignity.  I  am  going  in  a  tall  hat,  as  if  I  were  crowned 
by  remembering  happier  things.  I  am  sure  that  mine  will  be  the 
only  tall  hat  at  the  Spring  Show.  Half  the  Kildare  Street  Club  will  be 
there,  but  they  will  hesitate  to  honour  the  King  lest  they  offend 
Democracy  by  meeting  his  Viceroy  suitably  attired.  I,  as  you  know, 
have  not  the  least  concern  for  popular  opinion.' 

'Neither  have  I!' 

1  am  going  in  what  I  hope  will  be  the  only  silk  hat  to  be  seen  at 
the  first  official  function  of  the  Free  State.  We  must  not  conform  to 
the  unceremonious.' 

This  aroused  him.  'Look  here,  I  think  you  are  right.  Unless  we 
are  to  let  the  country  drift  without  a  protest  into  the  loutish  ways 
of  the  bog,  we  must  stand  for  the  observances  of  good  manners.  We 
must  wear  tall  hats.'  The  grandeur  innate  in  the  man  was  coming 
out.  Quietly  now!  Leave  him  the  tiller. 

'You  are  quite  right.  If  we  do  not  give  our  countrymen  the 
lead,  who  is  there  left  courageous  enough  to  sport  a  tall  hat?' 


1  The  Spring  agricultural  fair  of  the  Royal  Dublin  Society  at  its  exhibition  grounds,  Ballc 
bridge,  Dublin. 

2  First  Governor-General  of  the  Irish  Free  State. 


484  OLIVER   ST.    JOHN   GOG  ARTY 

I  hope,  I  said  to  myself,  that  the  proposition  will  not  appear  to 
his  mind  as  'Silk  hats  save  Ireland!' 

He  was  agreeing,  but  it  did  not  mean  that  he  was  coming  to  the 
Show. 

'Quite  so.  But  it  is  neither  here  nor  there,  this  mock  court  held 
by  a  barrister,  in  what  is  no  more  important  than  an  agricul- 
tural show  in  one  of  the  shires.  I  will  not  go.  I  am  not  well  enough. 
It  is  a  travesty:  a  revolution  in  a  palace.' 

My  last  card:  'Yeats,  we  need  not  ascend  the  grandstand  at  all. 
As  poet  of  the  Lake  Isle,  you  ought  to  see  the  country  girls  produc- 
ing the  island's  fare.  It  is  a  goodly  sight.  I  saw  some  of  the  dairy- 
maids at  work  in  the  last  Spring  Show,  and  they  were  very  comely. 
The  butter-girls  are  so  clean  and  wholesome  you  would  think  that 
they  were  personally  selected  by  Dr.  Russell  of  the  Department 
of  Public  Health.  Wonderful  sight,  the  churning!  Lassies  of  seven- 
teen, with  white  elbows.' 

'Why  white  elbows?' 

'You  must  know  that  the  skin  of  the  elbow  retains  to  the  last  any 
trace  of  pigment  that  there  may  be  in  the  racial  species.  If  there  is 
the  least  Eurasian,  Arabian  or  Semitic  blood,  for  instance,  it  shows 
in  the  browning  of  the  skin  of  the  elbow:  some  skin  diseases  are 
diagnosed  by  a  spot  or  two  at  the  elbows.  Now  the  dairy-maids  I  saw 
churning  have  snow-white  and  ruddy  arms  like  strawberries  and 
cream.  Their  work  at  the  churning  had  made  them  rosy,  and  still 
they  kept  on  with  the  old-fashioned  churns,  plunging  up  and  down 
the  long  handle.  It  is  a  very  graceful  attitude.  I  wonder  why  your 
brother  Jack  has  not  caught  them  at  their  work.  In  a  year  or  two 
there  will  be  no  more  churns  with  long  upright  handles,  nothing 
but  revolving  barrels  with  glass  windows.  The  old  and  homely 
things  are  ebbing  away,  ebbing  away.' 

'You  do  not  expect  me  to  rise  from  my  bed  to  see  Tim  Healy;  and 
a  few  country  girls  churning?' 

'Whoever  suggested  it?  I  merely  threw  out  a  hint  that  you  and  I 
could  attend  the  Spring  Show,  wear  silk  hats  where  no  one  else 
dared,  and  slip  away  from  the  Royal  box  in  time  for  the  butter- 
making  competition.  I  will  drive  you  home.' 

'Perfectly  preposterous!' 

'Very  well — you  are  missing  a  lot/ 

'What  am  I  missing?' 


TALL   HATS   AND   CHURNS  485 

'Oh  nothing,  perhaps.  But  I  am  deep  in  the  folk-lore  of  the 
churn.  Most  of  the  treasure  trove  from  Irish  bogs  is  butter,  and  we 
get  that  unique  and  beautiful  form  of  vessel  the  mether  from 
the  bogs.  The  three-  or  four-handed  goblet.  The  descendants  of 
those  who  made  the  mether  and  put  butter  into  firkins  are  churning 
at  the  present  moment,  unconscious  of  the  long  tradition  of  the 
churn;  and  the  awful  tragedy  of  it  is  that  no  one  realises  what  is  be- 
ing lost.  The  sea  chanties  were  nearly  all  gone  until  a  few  late- 
comers collected  half-a-dozen  Bowdlerised  stanzas  or  so.  But  the 
churn!  Only  one  song  of  butter-making  remains/ 

'Have  you  got  it?' 

'Father  Claude  overheard  it  in  Tipperary,  when  a  buxom  maid 
was  churning  as  she  thought  all  alone.  She  had  buttocks  like  a  pair 
of  beautiful  melons.  Her  sleeves  were  rolled  up.  She  had  churned 
from  early  morning.  Her  neck  was  pink  with  exercise.  Her  bosom 
laboured,  but  she  could  not  desist,  for  the  milk  was  at  the  turn.  Up 
and  down,  desperately  she  drove  the  long  handle:  up  and  down,  up 
and  down  and  up  and  up  for  a  great  drive.  The  resistance 
grew  against  the  plunger.  Her  hips  and  bosom  seemed  to  increase 
in  size  while  her  waist  grew  thin.  In  front  of  her  ears  the  sweat 
broke  into  drops  of  dew.  She  prayed  in  the  crisis  to  old  forgotten 
gods  of  the  homestead!  Twenty  strokes  for  ten!  Gasping,  she 
sang: 

'Come,  butter! 
Come,  butter! 
Come,  butter, 
Come! 
Every  lump 
As  big  as 
My  bum! 

'You  are  missing  not  one,  but  many  milk-maids'  songs.  And  when 
we  are  dead,  they  too  shall  be;  and  the  folk-lore  lost  forever  of  the 
dairy  and  the  byre.' 

'How  does  it  go?' — He  beat  time  to  recall  the  rhythm. 
'  "Every  lump  As  big  as  My  Bum!"  ' 

'Yes.  You  are  correct.  But  my  proposal  is  that  we  get  these  chants 
at  first-haad  and  be  not  depending  on  Father  Claude  for  such 
songs.' 

'When  does  Tim  expect  us?' 


486  OLIVER   ST.    JOHN   GOG  ARTY 

'Any  time  from  four  to  six.' 

'"Come,  butter,  come  butter,"'  he  murmured.  1  think  I  will  join 
you.  Let  me  know  when  you  can  send  a  car.  And  there's  my  hat  to 
be  brushed.' 


PATRICK    KAVANAGH 

The  Grey  Dawn1 

A   COUNTY  COUNCIL  QUARRY  WAS  OPENED  IN  OUR  VICINITY.  Among  the 

quarry-men  was  one  man  named  Bob.  He  was  a  stout  fellow 
of  thirty,  brown-eyed  and  very  quiet.  For  three  months  he  passed  our 
house  on  his  way  to  work  before  we  spoke  to  each  other.  He  was 
usually  reading  a  book — an  Irish  grammar.  He  was  studying  Gaelic. 

Then  one  evening  he  came  in  to  have  his  boot  repaired.  Bob  was  a 
flame.  He  touched  the  damp  wood  of  my  mind  till  sparks  began  to 
dance. 

He  talked  on  unusual  themes.  He  mentioned  Canon  Law,  syph- 
ilis, and  irregular  verbs.  He  recited  verse,  bad  verse  by  criti- 
cal standards,  perhaps;  Longfellow's  Evangeline  and  a  translation  of 
Dante  by — I  think — Cary. 

He  had  tried  his  skill  at  verse-making  himself.  One  poem  of 
eleven  lines  he  gave  me;  there  were  meant  to  be  twelve  lines,  but  he 
couldn't  get  the  last  line.  'For  the  past  six  months  I've  been  trying 
to  find  that  line,'  he  told  me. 

'Beside  an  Irish  rath,'  was  the  nearest  he  could  get. 

It's  a  great  poem  as  it  is,'  I  told  him,  'a  real  masterpiece.'  And  I 
thought  so  at  the  time.  We  were  then  standing  in  the  shadow  of 
Rocksavage  wall,  close  to  the  crossroads  from  which  the  wild  laugh- 
ter of  young  men  came.  It  was  a  moonlit  evening  in  October  and 
the  air  was  filled  with  the  fragrance  of  over-ripe  blackberries  and 
alderberries. 

'Aren't  they  the  gets?'  I  said,  referring  to  the  boys  at  the  cross- 
roads. 

'They're  true  Irishmen,'  he  said. 

Bob  gave  me  a  long  lecture  on  the  beauty  of  Alice  in  Wonderland 
and  Gil  Bias. 

Down  among  the  slabs  of  basalt  rock,  when  Bob  was  in  the  quarry, 
thought  took  wing.  The  listeners  in  this  academy  of  stone  hunger 
were  fed. 

'What  is  God?' 

'God's  a  n\an.' 

Bob's  conception  of  God,  whatever  it  was,  must  have  been  a 
million-forked  tongue  of  truth. 

1  From  The  Green  Fool,  New  York,  1939. 

487 


488  PATRICK   KAVANAGH 

'What  would  the  priest  say  if  he  heard  us?'  some  fool  was  sure 
to  say.  And  Bob  would  tell  them  that  their  conversation  was  truly 
religious.  Bob  was  asked  a  long  time  afterwards  who  was  the  clever- 
est man  he  had  ever  met;  he  said  I  was.  Lucky  for  me  I  didn't  hear 
of  this  opinion  till  my  mind  had  developed  a  resistance  to  vanity. 

A  neighbour  of  mine — a  young  fellow  who  lived  alone  in  a  fine 
house — had  a  large  stock  of  inherited  books.  I  used  to  visit  him  in 
the  winter  evenings.  He  loaned  me  books.  We  would  sit  by  his  fire 
long  hours  discussing  literature.  I  did  most  of  the  talking,  and  I 
shudder  when  I  think  of  the  flood  of  poetic  silliness  I  let  loose  on  my 
friend.  We  agreed  that  The  Siege  of  Corinth,  by  Byron,  was  sub- 
lime. I  it  was  who  suggested  the  word  'sublime.' 

'Sublime,  that's  exactly  the  word,'  my  host  said.  I  envied  this  fel- 
low his  stock  of  books.  The  fine  old  volumes  lay  blue-moulded 
around  the  floor  and  on  tables.  Burns's  poems  and  a  huge  history  of 
Rome  stood  on  the  hob.  On  top  of  a  bag  of  flour  lay — in  the  company 
of  some  copies  of  the  Wide  World  Magazine — Shelley's  The  Cenci. 
It  was  the  fashion  in  fancy  houses  to  have  a  big  book  on  the  parlour 
table.  This  man  had  several  big  books  on  his  parlour  table,  but  it 
wasn't  for  vanity. 

Two  is  company,  three  is  a  crowd,  the  saying  goes.  There  is  deep 
intimacy  when  two  men  sit  by  a  winter  fire.  When  a  third  enters — 
though  he  be  of  close  spiritual  kindred — the  whole  fabric  of  familiar 
sweetness  and  innocence  comes  to  pieces. 

This  often  happened  to  us.  Some  fellow  was  sure  to  come  rum- 
bling in  his  hob-nailed  boots  up  the  cobbled  yard  to  our  door.  A 
bull  to  the  china-shop  of  the  angels. 

'Anybody  inside?' 

'Come  in.' 

If  the  fellow  who  entered  had  leprosy  or  was  a  lunatic  with  a 
gun  I  wouldn't  be  half  as  vexed.  And  he  would  more  than  likely  be 
breezy  with  good  humour.  He  would  be  entirely  unconscious  that  he 
was  treading  on  holy  ground.  He  would  be  sure  to  lift  a  book  and 
turn  over  the  pages  before  he  sat  down. 

'Aw,  holy  fiddlesticks!  What  the  divil  does  that  mane?' 

It  might  be  Milton's  Paradise  Lost,  for  that  chunk  of  poetic  the- 
ology was  in  my  friend's  library. 

We  wouldn't  tell  him  what  the  book  was. 

'Take  a  sate,'  the  man  of  the  house  would  say. 

Then  the  talk  would  turn  on  the  loud  wheel  of  present  day.  I 


THE   GREY   DAWN  489 

could  talk  that  kind  of  talk,  too,  but  it  went  against  the  grain  of  my 
soul.  So  that  when  I  talked  everyday  talk  I  was  the  most  vulgar  man 
in  the  company. 

This  man's  house  was  quite  close  to  my  own.  I  was  lucky,  for  had 
it  been  miles  distant  I  should  have  gone  there  to  read  the  books,  and 
more  than  that  to  unload  myself  of  my  poetic  whimsies.  There  were 
so  few  to  whom  I  could  talk. 

He  gave  me  the  works  of  Pope.  In  this  edition  the  poet  was  given 
as  Mr.  Pope.  I  liked  Pope.  His  essays  on  Man  and  on  Criticism  were 
good  strong  truths  in  rhyme.  At  the  cross-roads  on  Sunday  after- 
noon I  recited  with  enthusiasm  to  a  crowd  of  farm-folk. 

'Of  all  the  causes  which  conspire  to  blind 
Man's  erring  judgment  and  misguide  the  mind, 
What  the  weak  head  with  strongest  bias  rules 
Is  pride,  the  never-failing  vice  of  fools.' 

My  hearers  understood  and  appreciated  this.  Some  of  them  were 
very  eager  for  knowledge.  We  might  have  had  some  very  meta- 
physical debates  if  there  were  not  always  in  the  crowd  one  of  those 
ridicule-making  fellows  whom  poor  Ireland  still  continues  to  pro- 
duce. 

My  sister  was  attending  the  convent  school.  She  had  many  books 
dealing  with  the  craft  of  verse. 

Intermediate  Foetry  and  Prose,  by  Father  Corcoran,  D.  Litt,  was 
one  I  remember.  I  thumb-marked  that  book.  I  studied  iambics, 
trochees,  rhyme,  and  stanza.  I  counted  the  feet  in  the  verses  I  read.  I 
tried  to  write  verse  myself,  but  the  number  of  feet  per  line  varied  to 
break  my  heart.  Once  I  wrote  a  complete  poem  and  sent  it  to  a 
weekly  paper  which  had  a  Poet's  Corner.  I  was  in  wonderful  hu- 
mour the  next  week  when  I  saw  my  initials  among  the  list  of  those 
whose  poems  had  been  rejected.  It  was  recognition.  I  never  imag- 
ined that  the  editor  would  as  much  as  recognise  that  my  writing 
was  verse,  even  for  the  waste-paper  basket.  I  was  getting  on. 

I  made  a  lot  of  ballads.  I  sang  them  at  dances,  and  part  of  one  at 
a  wake.  I  remember  at  the  wake  how  I  had  just  the  first  verse  sung 
when  the  Rosary  broke  out  in  the  room  of  the  corpse. 

'Triou,  O  Lord,  wilt  open  my  lips 
And  my  tongue  shall  announce  Thy  praise.' 

We  all  dropped  on  our  knees. 

Some  of  the  girls  at  the  dances  got  romantic  about  me.  I  really  be- 


490  PATRICK   KAVANAGH 

lieve  that  one  of  them  fell  in  love  with  me.  The  boys  laughed  at  my 
songs,  though  not  all.  Some  of  them  said  I  'was  the  makings  of  a  very 
good  comic.' 

My  first  song  celebrated  the  drinking  of  a  half-barrel  of  stout.  I 
remember  four  lines. 

Farrelly  fell  over  the  barrow 

At  the  gable-end  of  the  house 

And  the  singing  and  ructions  were  awful 

Around  the  half-barrel  of  stout. 

To  relations  in  America  I  wrote  letters  in  rhyme.  T  see  you  have 
a  new  Tom  Moore,'  one  of  the  Yankees  wrote  to  my  father. 

As  I  wandered  about  the  roads  and  fields  I  composed  my  verses. 

I  was  spreading  dung  in  drills  for  turnips  in  a  field  belonging  to 
Red  Pat.  Red  Pat  was  not  at  home.  I  was  alone.  I  got  my  tea  in  the 
field.  Sitting  beside  a  heap  of  steaming  dung  I  drank  the  tea  and 
afterwards  felt  in  great  poetic  form.  I  had  lately  been  reading  of  a 
poet  who  made  a  poem  about  a  telegraph  pole.  I  started  making  a 
poem  on  an  old  wooden  gate  which  guarded  a  field  I  knew.  For  every 
drill  of  dung  I  spread  I  made  a  line  of  verse.  I  kept  adding  to  the 
poem  till  it  was  of  grand  size.  I  sent  it  to  the  editor  of  the  local  paper. 
The  next  week  my  poem  appeared. 


Address  to  an  Old  Wooden  Gate 
Battered  by  time  and  weather,  scarcely  fit 
For  firewood.  There's  not  a  single  bit 
Of  paint  to  hide  those  wrinkles,  and  such  scringes 
Tear  hoarsely  down  the  silence — rusty  hinges. 
A  barbed-wire  clasp  around  one  withered  arm 
Replaces  the  old  latch  with  wanton  charm. 
This  gap  ere  long  must  find  another  sentry 
If  the  cows  are  not  to  roam  the  open  country. 

There  was  a  whole  column  of  similar  quality.  I  cannot  remem- 
ber the  rest.  It  wasn't  too  bad.  The  readers  of  the  paper  didn't  like 
it.  They  wanted  sentimental  verse  about  the  gallant  sons  of  Erin 
or  something  like  that. 

Everyone  who  had  an  old  wooden  gate — and  that  was  half  the 
parish — claimed  that  it  was  their  gate  I  had  slandered. 

I  sent  some  verse  to  the  Poet's  Corner  of  a  Dublin  paper.  It  was 
published.  Part  of  the  rules  of  the  Corner  was  that  the  author's  ad- 


THE   GREY   DAWN 


491 


dress  as  well  as  name  must  be  at  the  bottom  of  each  poem.  This  rule 
left  the  poets  open  to  a  lot  of  fan-mail.  I  got  books  of  tickets  to  sell 
for  charitable  purposes.  From  priests  and  nuns  these  tickets  came. 

An  Irish  woman  in  Wigan,  England,  wrote  asking  if  I  would  do 
some  research  into  her  family  history  for  her.  Her  mother's  people 
were  natives  of  Monaghan,  she  said,  and  she  would  love  to  know  if 
there  were  any  of  the  name  in  the  place  now. 

A  fellow  wrote  to  me  from  Chicago: 

Dear  Friend, 

I  read  your  poem  entitled  'A  Memory'  in  the  Irish  paper.  I  have  never 
found  this  sense  in  writing  before. 

The  weather  here  is  very  bad  for  the  past  two  weeks,  but  I  think  we 
will  have  a  dry  spell  soon. 

Wishing  you  great  success  in  your  writing, 
I  remain, 

Yours  sincerely, 

Harry  J.  Millin. 

I  replied  to  this  letter.  Then  my  distant  admirer  began  to  flood  me 
with  letters  and  piles  of  comic  papers.  Some  days  I  got  half  a  dozen 
letters  from  him.  He  sent  me  a  Sunday-school  paper  in  which  he  had 
inserted  an  advertisement  in  praise  of  me.  It  was  a  double-column 
advertisement  about  six  inches  square: 

GREETINGS: 

FROM  HARRY  J.  MILLIN  TO  PATRICK  KAVANAGH, 

POET,  IRELAND. 

It  was  headed  thus  in  heavy  black  type.  There  was  a  lot  of  small 
print  which  said  big  things  about  my  poetic  genius.  I  was  suffering 
from  chronic  poverty  at  this  time  and  I  wrote  to  H.  J.  M.  for  money. 
I  had  hopes  that  he  might  be  a  mad  millionaire.  He  replied: 

Dear  Friend, 

This  is  the  first  letter  of  this  description  I  have  ever  received.  I  can 
only  afford  to  send  you  one  dollar.  I  am  only  a  poor  lift-man  in  a  hotel 
at  fifteen  dollars  a  week. 

Yours  sincerely, 

a.  j.  m. 

I  lost  contact  with  him  shortly  afterwards. 

Verse-writing  was  getting  a  grip  on  me.  It  grew  unawares  like  an 


492  PATRICK   KAVANAGH 

insidious  disease.  But  I  wasn't  satisfied.  There  was  something  dead 
and  rotten  about  the  verse-world  in  which  I  moved. 

Of  Yeats  I  had  not  heard.  Not  one  of  the  contributors  to  our 
Corner  had  heard  of  him  either.  Yeats,  A.  E.,  Colum,  Stephens, 
and  all  that  crowd,  if  their  names  ever  came  through  the  dense  wall 
of  prejudice  to  us,  would  have  been  just  a  gang  of  evil  men  who 
were  out  for  a  destruction  of  the  Catholic  Faith.  No  nun  or  priest 
would  send  books  of  lottery  tickets  to  such  men. 

We  were  very  pious  poets.  Many  of  the  poems  in  the  Corner  were 
religious.  The  Blessed  Virgin,  Saint  Patrick,  Saint  Bridget,  the  Sa- 
cred Heart,  and  others  of  lesser  nimbus  power  provided  themes  for 
our  verse.  From  Brian  Boru  to  Dan  O'Connell  we  sang  the  praises 
of  the  saints  of  Irish  Nationalism  as  well. 

We  were  the  biddable  children  of  Kathleen  Mavourneen — but 
for  me  at  least  the  grey  dawn  was  breaking. 

It  was  the  last  days  of  August,  nineteen  twenty-seven.  We 
had  grass-seed  for  sale.  I  had  cut  the  hay  with  a  scythe  and  scutched 
in  on  the  bottom  of  a  tub.  It  yielded  me  four  bags,  which  I  had 
sieved  and  winnowed  in  the  breeze  and  sun.  I  was  proud  of  my 
grass-seed — it  was  white  and  clean.  My  father,  who  was  in  his  sec- 
ond childhood  then,  seemed  as  proud  of  me  as  I  was  of  the  grass- 
seed.  Second  childhood  is  like  that. 

'Ye'll  be  takin'  it  to  Dundalk,'  he  said. 

'Tomorrow/  I  answered. 

Selling  the  grass-seed  was  my  special  prerogative.  I  could  do  as  I 
liked  with  myself  and  the  money. 

A  man  passing  looked  at  the  seed.  'Very  dirty,'  he  said,  'a  lot  of 
hair-grass  in  it.' 

This  after  all  my  sieving. 

I  went  to  get  the  loan  of  Carr's  ass  on  the  evening  of  Sunday — the 
market  was  next  day.  The  ass  was  already  promised. 

'The  "Charger"  has  him,'  I  was  informed.  'Charger'  was  the  nick- 
name of  a  neighbour. 

'Get  Maggy  Quigley's  ass,'  they  advised  me;  'he's  a  very  good  step- 
per.' 

Maggy  lived  up  a  long  lane.  Her  ass  was  an  old  creature  and  the 
cart  was  still  older.  'It's  a  danger  to  be  safe  in  Maggy's  cart,'  people 
used  to  say. 

'We  don't  lend  the  ass  to  anybody,'  she  stated  when  I  declared 
my  business.  She  waited  till  the  importance  of  the  ass  and  cart 


THE   GREY   DAWN  493 

should  have  time  to  sink  into  my  mind.  'But  on  account  of  who  ye 
are  we'll  let  ye  have  Darby/ 

The  ass  was  lying  before  Maggy's  door  with  his  two  forepaws 
stretched  out  in  front  and  his  eyes  closed.  He  wasn't  a  promising 
beast  to  drive  to  Dundalk. 

'Do  ye  see  that  pole  there?'  Maggy  said,  pointing  out  to  me  a  long 
pole  laid  across  the  gap  in  the  stone  ditch.  'If  Darby  gets  an  aisy  day 
he  jumps  that  pole  during  the  night,  but  if  he's  abused  he  lies  out 
there  on  the  rock/ 

I  promised  to  treat  Darby  well. 

It  was  considered  a  good-stepping  horse  could  make  Dun- 
dalk from  our  district  in  two  and  a  half  hours.  I  left  at  five  o'clock 
in  the  morning  as  I  calculated  getting  in  around  nine.  I  over-rated 
Darby's  powers;  he  was  nearly  as  bad  as  the  ass  of  the  song: 

With  blood-stained  powers 

It  took  him  two  hours 

To  travel  each  mile  of  the  road. 

Darby  wasn't  just  as  bad  as  that,  though  he  was  bad  enough. 

Sitting  on  top  of  my  four  bags  of  grass  seed,  I  jogged  down 
the  Mucker  Road  between  the  tall  poplars  at  a  pretty  speed.  I  had 
given  the  ass  two  full  porringers  of  oats,  a  temporary  rejuvenation  to 
his  old  blood.  He  cocked  his  ears  and  swayed  pleasantly  between  the 
shafts.  It  must  have  been  an  early  harvest  that  year  for  much  of  the 
corn  was  gathered,  and  in  one  or  two  haggards  the  threshing  mills 
were  set  up. 

The  morning  was  chill,  still,  and  the  crevices  of  the  land  were 
grey.  There  were  two  stars  in  the  western  sky.  When  I  turned  east- 
wards for  Dundalk,  leaving  the  poplar-lined  road,  the  dawn  was  be- 
fore me,  a  grey  dawn  breaking  above  the  Irish  Sea,  and  in  my  mind 
a  grey  passionate  dawn  was  breaking  too.  I  was  becoming  aware  of 
new  beauty. 

For  the  first  two  miles  Darby  travelled  on  the  steam  of  the  oats. 
Then  the  weariness  of  age  returned  to  his  bones.  It  took  him  half 
an  hour  to  climb  Mahera  Hill.  I  got  down  and  pushed  at  the  tail 
board. 

'Foolish  fella,'  a  man  who  was  yoking  a  horse  to  a  cart  said  when 
he  saw  me.  'Don't  ye  know,'  he  explained,  'that  the  more  you  push 
the  less  the  ass  will  pull?'  I  might  have  known,  for  I  had  wide  expe- 


494  PATRICK   KAVANAGH 

rience  of  the  ass-temperament.  The  man  who  spoke  was  getting 
ready  for  the  market  himself. 

'How's  the  time  going?'  I  inquired. 

It's  hittin'  round  half-six,'  he  said,  'but  ye'll  have  lavings  of 
time.' 

Darby  trotted  down  the  hills  passing  out  horse-carts  drawn  by 
hairy-legged  Clydesdales.  Short  and  sweet  like  an  ass's  gallop,  is  a 
good  saying:  the  hairy-legged  Clydesdales  recovered  the  lost  ground 
and  passed  out  of  our  sight  on  the  top  of  the  next  hill. 

The  sun  was  up  before  I  got  to  the  town.  A  double  row  of  carts 
laden  with  grass-seed  was  queued  up  in  Park  Street.  I  tried  to  get  in 
before  a  woman  who  was  holding  an  ass  by  the  head.  She 
looked  quiet  enough  but  was  far  from  it  as  I  soon  found  out. 

'Ye  brat,'  she  sort  of  squealed,  'is  it  tryin'  to  knock  dacent  peo- 
ple outa  their  turn  ye  are?  People  that's  after  losin'  a  night's  sleep.' 

'I  have  only  the  bare  four  bags,'  I  pleaded. 

'Four  or  twenty-four,  it's  all  the  same  to  me,'  and  she  pulled  on 
the  rein  to  narrow  the  gap  between  her  and  the  cart  in  front.  There 
was  nothing  for  it  but  go  to  the  end  of  the  row  and  learn  patience. 

The  rows  of  carts  moved  very  slowly  towards  the  market  crane 
because  of  late  arrivals,  whom  well-wishers  were  letting  cut  in  fur- 
ther up.  Around  me  people  were  complaining.  'It's  a  damn  shame, 
that's  what  it  is.' 

I  strongly  supported  the  speaker.  'It's  all  that,'  I  said,  'and  a  good 
deal  more.' 

There  was  a  lot  of  talk  about  politics,  and  right  behind  me  two 
young  men  were  confabing  about  last  night's  dance. 

'I  think  I  could  go  with  her  if  I  went  all-out.' 

T  think  you  might.' 

T  seen  Tom  on  the  job  again.' 

'Aye,  the  oul'  clown,  some  people  wouldn't  know  when  they  were 
insulted.  Paddy  Kirk  tried  his  hardest  for  Josie  Duffy  and  he  might 
as  well  be  idle.' 

'No  go  for  Paddy.' 

I  came  opposite  a  newsagent's  shop,  and  was  glad.  'Keep  an  eye 
on  that  ass,'  I  told  the  fellow  before  me. 

Searching  among  the  papers  on  the  counter  I  came  across  a  peri- 
odical dated  a  few  weeks  back.  'What  kind  of  a  paper  is  this?'  I 
asked  the  newsagent. 


THE   GREY   DAWN  495 

'Something  like  John  Bull'  he  said. 

It  was  the  Irish  Statesman.  Returning  to  my  ass  I  opened  the  pa- 
per and  read. 

The  first  thing  my  eye  fell  upon  was  a  review  of  a  book  by  Ger- 
trude Stein.  I  read  a  quotation  and  found  it  like  a  foreign  language, 
partly  illuminated  by  the  Holy  Spirit.  There  was  mention  of  a  man 
called  Joyce.  I  was  a  little  surprised  to  find  that  his  Christian  name 
was  James  and  not  P.  W.  or  Robert  Dwyer.  P.  W.  Joyce  had  written 
a  History  of  Ireland  which  I  had  read  at  school  and  his  brother 
Robert  Dwyer  Joyce,  whom  I  knew  from  a  song  of  his — three  lines 
of  which  I  remember: 

Where  the  stream  leaps  down 

From  the  moorland  brown 

And  all  on  a  May-day  morning. 

'Any  stir  on  the  paper?'  a  fellow  asked  me. 
'Plenty,'  I  replied.  'Gertrude  Stein  is  after  writing  a  new  book.' 
'Quit  the  coddin'.  How's  the  markets  goin'?  My  sowl,  this  looks 
like  a  bad  pit  to-day.' 

They  shall  sink  under  water 
They  shall  rise  up  again, 
They  shall  be  peopled 
By  myriads  of  men. 
Paris  and  Babel 
London  and  Tyre 
Re-born  from  the  darkness 
Shall  sparkle  like  fire. 

I  didn't  understand  AE's  poem  except,  in  a  vague  way,  the  last 
line:  'Shall  sparkle  like  fire.'  Later  I  heard  from  AE  himself 
that  that  poem  had  a  commonsensical  meaning,  but  for  me  on  that 
August  morning  in  Dundalk  Grass-seed  Market  it  had  a  mean- 
ing and  a  message  that  had  come  from  hills  of  the  imagination  far 
beyond  the  flat  fields  of  common-sense. 

On  that  day  the  saints  of  Ireland,  political  and  theological,  lost 
a  strong  supporter.  I  never  wrote  for  the  holy  poets  again.  How  I 
fared  with  my  four  bags  of  grass-seed  hardly  matters.  Sufficient  to 
say  I  sold  it,  afterwards  visited  an  eating-house,  viewed  the  sights  of 
the  town  from  the  gaol  to  the  distillery  chimney  and  down  to  the 
quays,  bought  a  packet  of  cigarettes,  yoked  Darby  to  the  cart  and 


496  PATRICK   KAVANAGH 

gave  him  his  head.  How  long  it  took  us  to  get  home  I  do  not  know, 
for  I  was  wandering  among  the  hills  of  a  timeless  world.  It  was  an 
Eden  time  and  Eve  not  violated.  Men  were  not  subject  to  death.  I 
was  happy. 

Paris   and  Babel 
London  and  Tyre 
Re-born  from  the  darkness 
Shall  sparkle  like  fire.  .  .  . 
Faery  shall  dance  in 
The  streets  of  the  town 
And  from  sky  headlands 
The  gods  looking  down. 


MARGARET    HARRINGTON 

Village  Without  Men1 

W  eary  and  distraught  the  women  listened  to  the  storm  as  it  raged 
around  the  houses.  The  wind  screamed  and  howled.  It  drove  sud- 
denly against  the  doors  with  heavy  lurchings.  It  tore  at  the  straw 
ropes  which  anchored  the  thatched  roofs  to  the  ground.  It  rattled 
and  shook  the  small  windows.  It  sent  the  rain  in  narrow  streams 
under  the  door,  through  the  piled-up  sacks,  to  form  large  puddles 
on  the  hard  stamped  earthen  floors. 

At  times  when  the  wind  dropped  for  a  moment  to  a  low  whistling 
whisper  and  nothing  could  be  heard  but  the  hammering  of  the  sea 
against  the  face  of  Cahir  Roe,  the  sudden  release  would  be  intoler- 
able. Then  one  or  another  would  raise  her  head  and  break  into  a 
prayer,  stumbling  words  of  supplication  without  continuity  or  mean- 
ing. Just  for  a  moment  a  voice  would  be  heard.  Then  the  screaming 
wind  would  rise  again  in  fury,  roaring  in  the  chimney  and  strain- 
ing the  roof-ropes,  the  voice  would  sink  to  a  murmur  and  then  to 
nothing  as  the  women  crouched  again  over  the  smouldering  sods, 
never  believing  for  a  moment  in  the  miracle  they  prayed  for. 

Dawn  broke  and  the  wind  dropped  for  a  while.  The  women 
wrapped  their  shawls  tightly  round  them,  knotted  the  ends  behind 
them  and  tightened  their  headcloths.  They  slipped  out  through  cau- 
tiously opened  doors.  The  wind  whipped  their  wide  skirts  so  tightly 
to  their  bodies  it  was  hard  to  move.  They  muttered  to  themselves 
as  they  clambered  over  the  rocks  or  waded  through  the  pools  down 
to  the  foaming  sea. 

To  the  right  Cahir  Roe  sloped  upward,  smothered  in  storm 
clouds,  protecting  the  village  from  the  outer  sea.  The  ears  of 
the  women  rang  with  the  thunder  of  the  ocean  against  its  giant  face. 
Salt  foam  flecked  their  faces,  their  clothes,  as  they  struggled  along  in 
knots  of  three  or  four,  their  heads  turned  from  the  wind  as  they 
searched  the  shore  and  looked  out  over  the  rolling  water.  But  in  all 
that  grey-green  expanse  of  churning  sea,  nothing.  Not  even  an  oar. 
All  day  long  they  wandered. 

It  was  not  until  the  turn  of  the  tide  on  the  second  day  that  the 
bodies  began  to  roll  in,  one  now,  another  again,  over  and  over  in 


1  From  They  Go,  The  Irish:  A  Miscellany  of  War-time  Writing,  compiled  by  Leslie  Daiken, 
London,  1944. 

497 


498  MARGARET   BARRINGTON 

the  water  like  dark,  heavy  logs.  Now  a  face  showed,  now  an  out- 
stretched hand  rose  clear  of  the  water.  John  Boyle's  face  had  been 
smashed  on  the  rocks,  yet  his  wife  knew  him  as  an  incoming  wave 
lifted  his  tall  lean  body  to  hurl  it  to  shore. 

For  two  days  the  women  wandered  until  the  ocean,  now  grown 
oily  but  still  sullen  with  anger,  gave  up  no  more.  Niel  Boylan, 
Charley  Friel  and  Dan  Gallagher  were  never  found. 


The  women  rowed  across  the  bay  to  the  little  town  of  Clonmullen 
for  the  priest.  After  the  heavy  rain  the  road  across  the  bog  was 
dangerous,  and  the  village  was  cut  off  by  land.  The  young  curate, 
Father  Twomey,  came  across.  When  he  looked  at  the  grey  haggard 
faces  of  these  women,  all  words  of  comfort  deserted  the  young  priest. 
His  throat  went  dry  and  his  eyes  stung  as  if  the  salt  sea  had  caught 
them.  What  comfort  could  words  bring  to  women  in  their  plight? 
He  could  with  greater  ease  pray  for  the  souls  of  the  drowned  than 
encourage  the  living  to  bear  their  sorrow  in  patience. 

The  women  had  opened  the  shallow  graves  in  the  sandy  grave- 
yard. They  lowered  the  bodies  and  shovelled  back  the  sand.  Then 
for  headstones,  to  mark  the  place  where  each  man  was  laid  before 
the  restless  sand  should  blot  out  every  sign,  they  drove  an  oar  which 
he  had  handled  into  each  man's  grave  and  dropped  a  stone  there 
for  every  prayer  they  said.  The  wind  blew  the  sand  into  the  priest's 
vestments,  into  his  shoes,  into  his  well-oiled  hair  and  into  his  book.  It 
whirled  the  sand  around  the  little  heaps  of  stones. 

As  the  women  rowed  him  home  across  the  bay,  the  priest  looked 
back  at  the  village.  The  oars  in  the  graves  stood  out  against  the 
stormy  winter  sky  like  the  masts  of  ships  in  harbour. 


The  midwife  was  the  first  to  leave  the  village. 

As  they  brought  each  dead  man  up  from  the  sea,  she  stripped 
him  and  washed  his  body.  For  most  of  them  she  had  done  this  first 
service.  From  early  youth,  first  with  her  mother,  then  alone,  she  had 
plied  her  trade  on  this  desolate  spit  of  land.  These  same  bod- 
ies which  once  warm,  soft,  tender  and  full  of  life,  had  struggled  be- 
tween her  strong  hands,  now  lay  cold  and  rigid  beneath  them.  She 
washed  the  cold  sea-water  from  these  limbs  from  which  she  had  once 
washed  the  birth-slime.  Silently  she  accomplished  her  task  and  re- 


VILLAGE   WITHOUT   MEN  499 

tired  to  her  cottage.  Of  what  use  was  a  midwife  in  a  village  without 
men? 

She  wrote  to  her  married  daughter  in  Letterkenny  who  replied 
that  there  was  work  in  plenty  for  her  there.  Then  two  weeks  later 
when  the  hard  frosts  held  the  bog  road,  she  loaded  her  goods  on  a 
cart  and  set  out  for  Clonmullen  from  where  she  could  get  the  train 
to  Letterkenny.  She  took  with  her  young  Laurence  Boyle,  John 
Boyle's  fourteen-year-old  son,  to  bring  the  donkey  and  cart. 

The  women  watched  her  go.  A  few  called  God-speed  but  the 
others,  thin-lipped,  uttered  no  word.  Silently  they  went  back  to 
their  houses  and  their  daily  tasks.  From  now  on  their  bodies  would 
be  barren  as  fields  in  winter. 


All  the  winter  the  village  lay  dumb  and  still.  The  stores  of  potatoes 
and  salt  fish  were  eaten  sparingly.  The  fish  might  run  in  the 
bay  now,  followed  by  the  screaming  sea-gulls,  but  there  were  no 
men  to  put  out  the  boats  or  draw  in  the  gleaming  nets.  The 
children  gathered  mussels  to  feed  the  hens. 

Then  in  the  early  spring  days,  the  women  rose  from  their  hearths, 
and  tightly  knotted  their  head-cloths  and  shawls.  They  took  down 
the  wicker  creels  from  the  lofts,  the  men's  knives  from  the  mantel- 
shelves and  went  down  to  the  rocks  below  Cahir  Roe  to  cut  the  sea- 
wrack  for  the  fields.  The  children  spread  it  on  the  earth.  Then  with 
fork  and  spade  the  women  turned  the  light  sandy  soil,  planted 
their  potatoes,  oats  and  barley.  The  work  was  heavy  and  back- 
breaking  but  it  had  to  be  done.  If  they  did  not  work  now  with  all 
their  strength,  their  children  would  be  crying  for  food  in  the  com- 
ing winter. 

Driven,  bone-tired,  sick  at  heart,  they  rose  early  and  worked  all 
day,  stopping  at  midday  as  their  husbands  had  stopped,  to  rest  in 
the  shelter  of  a  stone  wall,  to  drink  some  milk  or  cold  tea  and  to  eat 
some  oatbread  the  children  brought  to  them  in  the  fields.  At  night 
they  dragged  their  bodies  to  bed.  There  was  no  joy,  no  relief  to  be 
got  there  now.  Nothing  but  sleep,  the  easing  of  weary  muscles. 

Their  work  in  the  house  was  neglected.  Their  hearths  went  un- 
tended,  their  clothes  unwashed.  They  no  longer  whitewashed  the 
walls  of  the  cottages  or  tended  the  geraniums  they  grew  in  pots. 
They  did  not  notice  when  the  flowers  died. 


500  MARGARET   HARRINGTON 

The  next  to  leave  the  village  was  Sally  Boyle.  She  was  to  have  mar- 
ried young  Dan  Gallagher  after  the  next  Lent.  There  at  the  end 
of  the  straggling  village  was  the  half-built  ruin  of  the  house  he  had 
been  getting  ready  with  the  help  of  the  other  men  in  the  village.  All 
winter  she  moped  over  the  fire,  only  rousing  herself  when  her 
mother's  voice  rose  sharp  and  angry.  Now  in  the  spring  she  began 
to  wander  about  restlessly.  She  would  leave  her  work  and  climb 
the  great  headland  of  Cahir  Roe,  there  to  look  out  to  where  Tory 
rose  like  a  fortress  from  the  sea — out  there  across  the  sea  in  which 
Dan  Gallagher  had  been  drowned,  the  sea  which  had  refused  to 
surrender  what  should  have  been  hers.  At  night  in  bed  she  could 
not  control  the  wildness  of  her  body.  She  pitched  from  side  to  side, 
moaning  and  muttering.  Her  whole  mind  was  darkened  by  the 
memory  of  soft  kisses  on  warm  autumn  nights,  of  strong  hands  fon- 
dling her.  She  felt  bereft,  denied. 

She  slipped  away  one  day  and  joined  the  lads  and  lasses  in  Clon- 
mullen  who  were  off  to  the  hiring  fair  at  Strabane.  Later  her  mother 
got  a  letter  and  a  postal  order  for  five  shillings.  Sally  was  now  hired 
girl  on  a  farm  down  in  the  Lagan. 

Then  in  ones  and  twos  the  young  girls  began  to  leave.  With  the 
coming  of  spring  their  eyes  brightened,  their  steps  grew  lighter. 
They  would  stop  and  look  over  their  shoulders  hurriedly,  as  if  some- 
one were  behind.  They  would  rush  violently  to  work  and  then 
leave  their  tasks  unfinished  to  stand  and  look  out  over  the  landscape, 
or  out  to  sea  from  under  a  sheltering  hand.  They  became  irritable, 
quarrelsome  and  penitent  by  turns.  Somewhere  out  there  across  the 
bog,  across  the  sea,  lay  a  world  where  men  waited;  men  who  could 
marry  them,  love  them  perhaps,  give  them  homes  and  children. 

The  women  objected  to  their  going  and  pleaded  with  them. 
Every  hand  was  needed  now.  The  turf  must  be  cut  in  the 
bog,  turned  and  stacked  for  the  coming  winter.  Surely  they  could  go 
when  the  crops  were  gathered  in.  But  tears  and  pleading  were  in 
vain.  Nature  fought  against  kindness  in  their  young  bodies.  Here  no 
men  were  left  to  promise  these  girls  life,  even  the  hazardous  life  of 
this  country.  They  gathered  their  few  garments  together  and  de- 
parted, promising  to  send  back  what  money  they  could.  But  their 
mothers  knew  that  it  was  not  to  get  money  they  left.  It  was  the  blood 
in  their  veins  which  drove  them  forth.  And  though  the  women 
lamented,  they  understood. 

No  use  now  to  give  a  dance  for  the  departing  girls.  There  were  no 


VILLAGE    WITHOUT   MEN  501 

men  with  whom  they  could  dance.  No  use  to  gather  the  neigh- 
bours into  the  house  to  sing.  The  voices  of  women  are  thin  and 
shrill  without  men's  voices  to  balance  them. 


Larry  Boyle  found  himself  the  only  lad  in  the  village.  The  other 
boys  were  many  years  younger  and  those  who  were  older  had  been 
lost  with  their  fathers  in  the  storm.  The  winter  gloom,  the  silence  of 
the  women  and  his  loneliness  drove  him  to  day-dreaming,  to  the  cre- 
ation of  a  fantasy  world.  He  saw  himself,  in  coming  years,  stronger 
and  taller  than  any  man,  towering  over  humanity  as  Cahir  Roe  tow- 
ered over  the  sea,  impregnable,  aloof.  Boats,  fields,  cattle,  houses, 
everything  in  the  village  would  belong  to  him.  For  as  yet  the  out- 
side world  meant  nothing  to  him  and  women  had  no  power  over 
his  dreams.  They  existed  but  to  serve  him. 

At  first  the  women  paid  no  more  attention  to  him  than  they  did 
to  the  other  children.  He  ate  what  food  was  set  before  him — some 
potatoes,  a  piece  of  dried  fish,  a  bowl  of  buttermilk.  He  performed 
such  tasks  as  were  set  him,  helping  with  the  few  cows,  carrying  the 
sea-wrack,  heeling  the  turf.  Indeed,  he  was  rather  despised  than 
otherwise  for  the  girls  of  his  age  were  more  nimble  and  less  absent- 
minded  than  he. 

But  slowly,  as  if  in  answer  to  his  dreams,  his  position  changed.  In 
every  house  he  entered  he  was  welcomed  and  given  the  seat  by  the 
fire.  He  was  never  allowed  to  depart  without  food  and  drink.  The 
older  women  baked  and  cooked  for  him,  kept  the  best  for  him,  gave 
him  small  presents  from  their  hoard;  a  husband's  knife;  a  son's 
trousers.  They  began  to  compliment  him  at  every  turn  on 
his  strength  and  growth.  No  one  asked  him  to  work. 

Now  he  allowed  his  hair  to  grow  like  a  man's.  The  stubby  quiff 
vanished  and  a  crop  of  thick,  fair  curls  crowned  his  forehead,  giving 
him  the  obstinate  look  of  a  fierce  young  man.  He  became  particular 
about  the  cleanliness  of  his  shirt,  refused  to  wear  old  patched 
trousers  and  coat.  Gradually  he  dominated  the  whole  village.  Even 
the  dogs  owned  him  sole  master,  and  snarled  savagely  at  one  another 
when  he  called  them  to  heel.  The  younger  boys  were  his  slaves,  to 
fetch  and  carry  for  him.  He  scarcely  noticed  the  girls  of  his  own 
age,  never  called  them  by  name,  never  spoke  directly  to  them.  Un- 
like them,  he  had  no  wish  to  leave  the  village. 


502  MARGARET   BARRINGTON 

A  day  came  when  Larry  Boyle  went  from  house  to  house  and 
collected  the  fishing  lines,  hooks  and  spinners  which  had  belonged 
to  the  drowned  men.  They  were  granted  him  as  if  by  right.  He 
took  them  to  the  rock  behind  the  village  where  formerly  the  fish  had 
been  dried  and  where  the  men  had  then  met  in  the  summer 
evenings  to  talk,  away  from  their  women  folk.  It  was  a  day  of  shift- 
ing sun  and  shadow  and  the  wind  from  the  west  broken  by  the  head- 
land. 

He  sang  as  he  carefully  tested,  cut  and  spliced  each  line.  He 
rubbed  the  hooks  and  spinners  clean  of  rust  with  wet  sand  from 
the  stream.  He  made  a  long  line,  tested  each  length  and  wound  it  in 
a  coil  between  hand  and  elbow.  He  fastened  the  hooks  and  the 
lead  weight.  Then,  satisfied,  he  went  down  to  the  shore  to  dig  bait. 

He  swung  his  can  of  bait  over  his  shoulder,  picked  up  his  line 
and  made  for  Cahir  Roe.  He  was  going  to  fish  for  rock  fish. 

A  deep  shelf  ran  round  part  of  the  headland  and  from  this  the 
men  had  fished  in  the  drowsy  heat  of  summer  days  when  they  could 
spare  time  from  the  fields.  He  clambered  along  the  shelf  and  stood 
on  the  edge.  The  sea  heaved  and  foamed  beneath  him.  Far  out, 
Tory  rose,  a  castle  against  the  white  line  of  the  horizon. 

He  fixed  his  bait  carefully  and  placed  the  loose  end  of  the  line  be- 
neath his  heel.  Then,  clear  of  the  beetling  rock  behind,  he  swung  the 
coil  of  line  above  his  head  and  threw  it  far  out.  His  body,  bal- 
anced over  the  edge,  seemed  to  follow  it  as  his  eye  watched  the  un- 
twisting of  the  cord,  the  drop  of  the  lead  towards  the  sea.  He  bent 
down  and  gathered  up  the  end. 

He  could  feel  the  movement  as  the  length  of  line  ran  through  the 
sea  and  the  weight  sank  slowly  through  the  heavy  water.  His  hand 
knew  what  was  happening  down  there  beneath  the  surface  of  the 
water.  He  felt  the  lead  strike  the  bottom.  His  fingers,  born  to  a  new 
delicacy,  held  the  line  firmly  so  that  the  bait  should  float  free.  He 
could  feel  the  gentle  nibbling  of  the  fish  at  the  bait,  nibbling  cau- 
tiously, daintily  as  sheep  nibble  grass.  Twice  he  drew  in  his  line 
to  re-bait  the  hook.  Then  one  struck. 

Excited,  breathing  heavily,  his  eyes  distended,  he  drew  in  the 
line  slowly,  letting  it  fall  in  careful  coils  at  his  feet.  Then  the  fish 
left  the  water  and  the  full  weight  hung  on  the  line.  It  plunged  about 
madly  in  the  air,  twisting  and  flapping.  The  cord  rubbed  against 
the  edge  of  the  shelf  as  it  passed  from  hand  to  hand,  dislodging  small 
stones  and  dirt  from  the  crumbling  surface.  He  had  to  lean  out  to 


VILLAGE   WITHOUT   MEN  503 

jerk  the  fish  over  the  edge,  at  that  moment  unaware  of  everything 
but  the  twisting,  flapping  fish.  He  threw  it  well  behind  him  so  that 
it  could  not  leap  back  into  the  water.  It  lay  there,  twisting  and  turn- 
ing, its  brilliant  orange  and  green  colouring  coming  and  going,  its 
belly  heaving,  its  panting  gills  shining  red.  Then  it  lay  still  and 
from  its  open  mouth  the  brick-red  blood  flowed  over  the  stones.  An- 
other leap,  another  twitch.  It  was  dead. 

Larry  passed  the  back  of  his  hand  across  his  forehead  to  wipe 
away  the  sweat.  Before  he  stooped  to  disengage  the  hook  from  the 
jaws  of  the  fish,  he  looked  around  him,  at  Tory  on  the  far  horizon,  at 
the  towering  cliff  above,  the  heaving  sea  beneath.  For  a  moment 
his  head  reeled  as  he  felt  the  turning  of  the  world. 


The  women  liked  the  new  schoolmistress.  They  liked  her  modesty 
and  reserve.  Though  young,  she  knew  how  to  keep  the  children  in 
order,  teach  them  their  lessons  and  their  manners.  They  looked  after 
her  with  approval  when  they  saw  her  walk  precisely  from  the  school 
to  the  cottage  where  she  lived,  her  hands  stiffly  by  her  sides,  her 
eyes  lowered.  They  admired  her  round,  rosy  face,  her  light  hair, 
her  neat  figure.  She  appeared  so  young  and  lovely  to  these  women 
whose  bodies  were  lean  and  tired  from  hard  work  and  poor  food. 

She  never  stopped. at  the  half-door  for  a  chat,  nor  delayed  for  a 
moment  to  pass  the  time  of  day  with  a  neighbour  on  the  road.  She 
never  played  with  the  younger  children.  She  walked  around  encased 
in  herself. 

Every  Saturday  while  the  road  held,  she  would  mount  her  clean, 
well-oiled  bicycle  and  cycle  to  Clonmullen.  On  the  way  she  did  not 
speak  to  anyone  nor  answer  a  greeting.  With  gaze  fixed  on  the  road 
before  her,  she  pedaled  furiously.  In  Clonmullen  she  would  make 
one  or  two  purchases,  post  her  letters  and  cycle  back  home.  All  at- 
tempts at  conversation  were  firmly  repulsed.  She  did  not  even  stop 
to  have  tea  at  the  hotel. 

She  lived  alone  in  a  small  cottage  built  on  the  rise  of  ground  just 
beyond  the  village.  For  an  hour  at  a  time  she  would  kneel  in  the 
shelter  of  the  fuchsia  hedge  and  gaze  hungrily  at  the  houses  she  did 
not  wish  to  enter,  at  the  women  to  whom  she  did  not  care  to  speak. 
She  knew  all  their  comings  and  goings,  all  the  details  of  their  daily 
life.  She  watched  them  at  their  work,  in  their  conversation.  She 
watched  the  children  at  play.  She  watched  Larry  Boyle  as  he  wan- 


504  MARGARET   BARRINGTON 

dered  along  the  shore  towards  Cahir  Roe  to  fish,  or  passed  her  cot- 
tage on  his  way  to  set  rabbit  snares  in  the  burrows. 

The  July  heat  beat  down  on  the  earth  and  the  blue-grey  sea 
moved  sleepily  under  a  mist.  He  was  returning  home  when  he  saw 
her,  standing  in  the  shelter  of  the  bushes  that  grew  over  the  gate- 
way. She  was  looking  at  him  with  fierce  intentness.  He  stood  still 
and  gazed  back,  his  eyes  wide  and  startled.  The  fear  of  unknown 
lands,  of  uncharted  seas  took  hold  of  him.  His  mouth  dropped  open, 
his  skin  twitched.  His  throat  hurt  and  there  was  a  hammering  in 
his  ears  like  the  heavy  pounding  of  the  surf  on  Cahir  Roe.  He  could 
not  move  hand  nor  foot.  With  a  sudden  movement  her  hand  darted 
out  and  caught  his  wrist.  She  drew  him  towards  her,  in  the  shelter 
of  the  thick  fuchsia  hedge.  Frightened  by  her  intent  stare,  her  pale 
face,  her  quick  uneven  breathing,  when  she  put  out  her  other  hand 
to  fondle  him,  he  pulled  away  and  burst  through  the  bushes. 
Quietly,  with  lowered  eyes,  she  listened  as  his  boots  clattered  over 
the  rocky  road.  She  sighed  and  turned  back  into  her  house. 

The  first  time  he  ran  away.  But  he  came  back.  Furtively.  He 
would  steal  into  her  kitchen  when  she  was  at  school  and  leave  some 
offering;  a  freshly  caught  fish,  a  rabbit,  some  rock  pigeon's  eggs.  He 
had  so  little  to  give. 

She  did  not  seem  to  notice.  She  did  not  stop  him  to  thank  him 
when  they  met.  She  passed  without  even  a  greeting,  once  again 
encased  in  her  rigid  calm.  Then  one  evening,  as  darkness  fell,  he 
lifted  the  latch  of  her  door.  She  was  seated  on  her  hearthrug,  gazing 
at  the  glowing  turf  fire.  He  approached  in  silent  desperation  and 
with  the  same  wild  desperation  she  answered. 

Such  happenings  do  not  long  remain  hidden  in  a  small  world. 
Without  a  word  spoken  the  women  came  to  know.  Primitive  anger 
seized  hold  on  them.  They  said  nothing  to  Larry.  Their  belief  in 
man's  place  in  life  and  the  fact  that  they  had  denied  him  nothing, 
shut  their  mouths.  All  their  rage  turned  against  the  young  teacher 
whom  they  had  thought  so  modest  and  gentle.  They  became  as  fierce 
as  hawks  at  the  theft  of  their  darling. 

They  ceased  work.  They  came  together  in  groups,  muttering. 
They  buzzed  like  angry  bees.  Their  lips  spoke  words  to  which  their 
ears  were  long  unaccustomed  as  they  worked  themselves  into  an 
ancient  battle  fury.  They  smoothed  their  hair  back  from  their  fore- 
heads with  damp  and  trembling  hands.  They  drew  their  small 
shawls  tightly  round  their  shoulders. 


VILLAGE   WITHOUT   MEN  505 

From  behind  the  fuchsia  hedge  the  girl  saw  them  coming  like  a 
flock  of  angry  crows.  Their  wide  dark  skirts,  caught  by  the  light 
summer  breeze,  billowed  out  behind  them.  Their  long,  thin  arms 
waved  over  their  heads  like  sticks  in  the  air.  Their  voices  raised  in 
some  primitive  battle  cry,  they  surged  up  the  road  towards  her. 

Terrified  of  this  living  tidal  wave,  she  rushed  out.  Her  eyes 
dimmed  with  terror,  her  limbs  shook.  The  uneven  road  caught  her 
feet.  It  seemed  to  her  that  she  made  no  headway  as  she  ran,  that  the 
surging  mass  of  women  came  ever  nearer.  Stones  rattled  at  her  heels. 
She  ran  on  in  blind  panic,  unaware  of  where  she  was  going.  Her 
chest  began  to  ache,  her  throat  to  burn.  A  stone  caught  her 
shoulder  but  she  scarcely  felt  the  blow.  Then  another  hit  her  on  the 
back  and  she  stumbled.  Still  she  ran  on,  not  daring  to  look  back. 
A  stone  struck  her  head.  She  reeled  and  fell.  Over  the  edge  of  the 
narrow  bog  road,  down  the  bank  towards  the  deep  watery  ditch. 
Briars  caught  her  clothes.  Her  hands  grasped  wildly  at  the  tufts  of 
rough  grass.  There  she  lay,  half  in,  half  out  of  the  water,  too  fright- 
ened to  move   or  struggle. 

When  they  saw  her  fall,  the  women  stopped  and  stood  there  in 
the  road,  muttering.  Then  they  turned  back.  They  burst  into  her 
neat  little  cottage.  They  threw  the  furniture  about,  broke  the  delft, 
hurled  the  pots  out  of  doors,  tore  the  pretty  clothes  to  ribbons. 
Then  they  left,  still  muttering  threats,  like  the  sea  after  storm. 

Later,  shivering,  aching,  sick,  the  girl  dragged  herself  back  on  to 
the  road.  There  was  no  one  there  now.  The  flock  of  crows  had  gone. 
She  stood  alone  on  the  empty  road.  There  was  no  sound  but 
the  lonely  call  of  a  moor  bird  overhead. 

The  next  day  Larry,  too,  left  the  village. 


The  war  when  it  came  meant  little  to  these  women.  The  explo- 
sions of  mines  on  the  rocks  could  not  harm  them  now  that  there 
were  no  men  to  risk  their  lives  on  the  water.  The  aeroplanes  which 
from  time  to  time  circled  over  the  coast  seemed  to  them  no  more 
than  strange  birds,  at  first  matter  for  wonder  and  then  taken  for 
granted.  Sometimes  the  sea  washed  up  an  empty  ship's  boat,  some 
timbers  or  empty  wooden  cases.  One  morning  scores  of  oranges 
came  dancing  in  on  the  waves.  The  children  screamed  with  de- 
light and  not  knowing  what  they  were  played  ball  with  them.  But 
since  the  oranges  did  not  bounce  they  soon  tired  of  them  and  left 


506  MARGARET   BARRINGTON 

them  along  the  shore  to  rot.  The  women  only  realised  that  the 
war  could  touch  them  when  the  supplies  of  Indian  meal  ran  out. 

All  that  winter  storms  lashed  the  coast.  Snow  whirled  around  the 
houses,  blotting  out  the  sight  of  the  fierce  sea  which  growled  sav- 
agely against  the  headland  of  Cahir  Roe  day  and  night.  Not  once 
during  the  bitter  months  did  the  snow  melt  on  the  mountains 
beyond  Clonmullen.  The  wind  tore  at  the  ropes  which  tethered  the 
thatched  roofs,  rotting  and  grass-grown  from  neglect.  The  north- 
east wind  drove  under  the  doors,  roared  in  the  chimneys;  it 
hardened  the  earth  until  it  was  like  a  stone. 

Yet  now  it  seemed  that  the  silence  was  broken,  that  terrible  si- 
lence they  had  kept  in  mourning  for  their  dead.  Now  in  the  evenings 
they  gathered  round  one  another's  firesides.  They  told  stories,  old 
Rabelaisian  tales  heard  when  they  were  children  from  the  old  men 
of  the  village.  Such  tales  as  lie  deep  in  the  minds  of  a  people  and  are 
its  true  history.  Tales  of  old  wars,  of  great  slaughter  of  men,  of  the 
survival  of  the  women  and  children,  of  tricks  to  preserve  the  race. 
They  told  of  the  Danes  and  their  love  of  the  dark-haired  Irish- 
women. They  laughed  quietly  and  spoke  in  whispers  of  the  great 
power  of  the  Norsemen's  bodies,  of  the  fertility  of  their  loins. 

Over  and  over  again  they  told  the  story  of  the  women  of  Monastir, 
who,  when  widowed  and  alone,  lured  with  false  lights  a  ship  to 
their  shore.  What  matter  that  their  victims  were  dark-skinned  Turks. 
Their  need  was  great. 

The  eyes  of  the  women  grew  large  and  full  of  light  as  they  re- 
peated these  tales  over  the  dying  embers  of  their  fires.  A  new  ferocity 
appeared  in  their  faces.  Their  bodies  took  on  a  new  grace,  grew 
lithe  and  supple,  as  the  body  of  the  wild  goat  becomes  sleek  and 
lovely  in  the  autumn. 

Spring  came  suddenly.  After  the  weeks  of  fierce  winds  and  wild 
seas,  followed  days  of  mild  breezes  and  scampering  sunshine.  The 
women  threw  open  their  doors  and  stepped  out  with  light  hearts. 
As  they  cut  the  sea-wrack  for  their  fields,  they  called  to  one  another 
and  sang  snatches  of  old  songs.  Sometimes  one  or  another  would 
stop  in  her  work  and  look  out  over  the  water  at  the  sea-swallows 
dipping  and  skimming  over  the  surface  of  the  water,  at  the  black 
shags  as  they  swam  and  dived,  at  old  Leatherwing  standing  in  his 
corner  in  wait.  The  older  children  laughed  and  shouted  as  they 
helped  to  spread  out  the  wrack  on  the  fields.  The  younger  ones 


VILLAGE   WITHOUT   MEN  507 

screamed  as  they  ran  along  the  shore  and  searched  under  the  rocks 
for  crabs.  They  called  and  clapped  their  hands  at  the  sea-pies  as 
they  bobbed  up  and  down  on  the  waves. 

On  and  on  the  children  ran,  their  toes  pink  in  the  sea-water. 
They  chattered  together  like  pies  over  each  fresh  discovery.  They 
travelled  along  the  shore  until  they  found  themselves  out  on  the 
point  of  land  beside  Cahir  Roe,  facing  the  open  sea.  There  they 
stood  and  looked  out  to  sea  from  under  sheltering  hands. 

For  some  minutes  they  stood  and  stared.  Then  in  a  body  they 
turned  and  ran  towards  the  women,  shouting  all  together  that  out 
there,  coming  in  closer  every  minute,  was  a  strange  boat. 

The  women  straightened  their  backs  and  listened.  Even  before 
they  understood  what  the  children  were  shouting,  they  let  down 
their  petticoats  and  started  for  the  point.  There  they  stood  in  a  group 
and  stared,  amazed  that  a  boat  should  put  in  on  that  inhospitable 
shore.  Close  in  now,  with  flapping  sail,  the  boat  came. 

They  could  make  out  only  one  man  and  their  eyes,  used  to  long 
searching  over  the  water,  could  see  that  he  was  lying  across  the  tiller. 
Was  he  alive  or  dead?  Could  he  not  see  where  he  was  going?  If 
he  did  not  change  his  course  now  he  would  fetch  up  on  the  reef  be- 
low Cahir  Roe.  They  rushed  forward  to  the  water's  edge  and 
shouted.  The  man  bent  over  the  tiller  did  not  move.  They  contin- 
ued to  shout.  They  waded  into  the  sea  until  the  water  surged 
against  their  bodies  and  threatened  to  overbalance  them.  Their 
dark  skirts  swirled  round  them  in  the  heavy  sea  as  they  shouted  and 
waved  their  arms. 

Then  the  man  at  the  tiller  slowly  raised  his  head.  He  looked 
around  him,  at  the  sea,  at  the  screaming  women,  at  the  great  red 
granite  face  of  Cahir  Roe.  With  great  effort  he  pulled  his  body  up- 
right and  swung  the  tiller  over.  Then  he  fell  forward  again.  Even 
before  the  keel  had  grounded  on  the  gravel  the  women  had  seized 
the  boat  and  dragged  it  up  on  to  the  beach. 

Six  men  lay  huddled  in  the  bottom  of  the  boat.  Great  strong 
men,  now  helpless.  The  women  turned  to  the  helmsman.  He  looked 
at  them  with  dull,  sunken  eyes.  He  moved.  He  tried  to  speak.  His 
grey  face  was  stiff,  his  lips  cracked. 

'Scotland?'  he  asked  and  his  voice  was  hoarse. 

The  women  shook  their  heads.  Then  the  man  slowly  lifted  one 
hand,  pointed  to  the  men  at  his  feet  and  then  to  himself. 


J 


508  MARGARET   BARRINGTON 

'Danes.  Torpedoed.  Ten  days.' 

The  women  cried  aloud  as  they  lifted  the  heavy  bodies  of  the 
men.  Their  voices  sang  out  in  wild  exultation: 
The  Danes.  The  Danes  were  come  again. 


MYLES     na     gCOPALEEN 

Drink  and  Time  in  Dublin1 

A   RECORDED    STATEMENT 

— Did  you  go  to  that  picture  'The  Lost  Weekend? 

— I  did. 

— I  never  seen  such  tripe. 

— What  was  wrong  with  it? 

— O  it  was  all  right,  of  course — bits  of  it  was  good.  Your  man  in 
the  jigs  inside  in  the  bed  and  the  bat  flying  in  to  kill  the  mouse,  that 
was  damn  good.  I'll  tell  you  another  good  bit.  Hiding  the  bottles  in 
the  jax.  And  there  was  no  monkey  business  about  that  because  I 
tried  it  since  meself .  It  works  but  you  have  to  use  the  half  pint  bot- 
tles. Up  the  chimbley  is  another  place  I  thought  of  and  do  you  know 
the  ledge  affair  above  windows? 

—I  do. 

— That's  another  place  but  you  could  get  a  hell  of  a  fall  reaching 
up  there  on  a  ladder  or  standing  on  chairs  with  big  books  on 
them.  And  of  course  you  can  always  tie  the  small  bottles  to  the  un- 
derneath of  your  mattress. 

— I  suppose  you  can. 

— But  what  are  you  to  do  with  the  empties  if  you  stop  in  bed 
drinking?  There's  a  snag  there.  I  often  thought  they  should  have 
malt  in  lemonade  syphons. 

— Why  didn't  you  like  the  rest  of  'The  Lost  Weekend'? 

— Sure  haven't  I  been  through  far  worse  weekends  meself — you 
know  that  as  well  as  I  do.  Sure  Lord  save  us  I  could  tell  you  yarns. 
I'd  be  a  rich  man  if  I  had  a  shilling  for  every  morning  I  was  down 
in  the  markets  at  seven  o'clock2  in  the  slippers  with  the  trou- 
sers pulled  on  over  the  pyjamas  and  the  overcoat  buttoned  up  to  the 
neck  in  the  middle  of  the  summer.  Sure  don't  be  talking  man. 

— I  suppose  the  markets  are  very  congested  in  the  mornings? 

— With  drunks?  I  don't  know.  I  never  looked  round  any  time  I 
was  there. 

— When  were  you  last  there? 

— The  time  the  wife  went  down  to  Cork  last  November.  I  won't 


1  From  Irish   Writing,  Cork,   No.    1,    1946. 

2  The  public  houses  near  the  Dublin  Cattle  Market  are  permitted  to  open  at  7  A.M. 
stead  of  10:30  A.M.  for  the  convenience  of  the  cattle  men. 


509 


510  MYLES    na    gCOPALEEN 

forget  that  business  in  a  hurry.  That  was  a  scatter  and  a  half.  Did  I 
never  tell  you  about  that?  O  be  God,  don't  get  me  on  to  that  affair. 

— Was  it  the  worst  ever? 

— It  was  and  it  wasn't  but  I  got  the  fright  of  me  life.  I'll  tell  you  a 
damn  good  one.  You  won't  believe  this  but  it's  a  true  bill.  This  is 
one  of  the  best  you  ever  heard. 

— I'll  believe  anything  you  say. 

— In  the  morning  I  brought  the  wife  down  to  Kingsbridge  in  a 
taxi.  I  wasn't  thinking  of  drink  at  all,  hadn't  touched  it  for  four 
months,  but  when  I  paid  the  taxi  off  at  the  station  instead  of  going 
back  in  it,  the  wife  gave  me  a  look.  Said  nothing,  of  course — 
after  the  last  row  I  was  for  keeping  off  the  beer  for  a  year.  But  some- 
how she  put  the  thing  into  me  head.  This  was  about  nine  o'clock,  I 
suppose.  I'll  give  you  three  guesses  where  I  found  meself  at 
ten  past  nine  in  another  taxi? 

— Where? 

— Above  in  the  markets.  And  there  wasn't  a  more  surprised  man 
than  meself.  Of  course  in  a  way  it's  a  good  thing  to  start  at  it  early 
in  the  morning  because  with  no  food  and  all  the  rest  of  it  you're  fin- 
ished at  four  o'clock  and  you're  home  again  and  stuffed  in  bed.  It's 
the  late  nights  that's  the  killer,  two  and  three  in  the  morning,  getting 
poisoned  in  shebeens  and  all  classes  of  hooky  stuff,  wrong  change, 
and  a  taxi  man  on  the  touch.  After  nights  like  that  it's  a  strong  man 
that'll  be  up  at  the  markets  in  time  next  morning. 

— What  happened  after  the  day  you  got  back  at  four? 

— Up  at  the  markets  next  morning  before  they  were  open.  There 
was  another  chap  there  but  I  didn't  look  at  him.  I  couldn't  tell  you 
what  age  he  was  or  how  bad  he  was.  There  was  no  four  o'clock  stuff 
that  day.  I  was  around  the  markets  till  twelve  or  so.  Then  off  up 
town  and  I  have  meself  shaved  be  a  barber.  Then  up  to  a  certain 
hotel  and  straight  into  the  bar.  There's  a  whole  crowd  there  that  I 
know.  What  are  you  going  to  have  and  so  on.  No  no,  have  a 
large  one.  So-and-so's  getting  married  on  Tuesday.  Me  other  man's 
wife  has  had  a  baby.  You  know  the  stuff?  Well  Lord  save  us  I  had  a 
terrible  tank  of  malt  in  me  that  day!  I  had  a  feed  in  the  middle  of  it 
because  I  remember  scalding  myself  with  hot  coffee  and  I  never 
touch  the  coffee  at  all  only  after  a  feed.  Of  course  I  don't  remember 
what  happened  me  but  I  was  in  the  flat  the  next  morning  with  the 
clothes  half  off.  I  was  supposed  to  be  staying  with  the  brother-in- 
law,  of  course,  when  the  wife  was  away.  But  sure  it's  the  old  dog  for 


DRINK   AND   TIME   IN   DUBLIN  511 

the  hard  road.  Drunk  or  sober  I  went  back  to  me  own  place.  As  a 
matter  of  fact  I  never  went  near  the  brother-in-law  at  all.  Be  this 
time  I  was  well  into  the  malt.  Out  with  me  again  feeling  like  death 
on  wires  and  I'm  inside  in  the  local  curing  meself  for  hours,  spilling 
stuff  all  over  the  place  with  the  shake  in  the  hand.  Then  into  the 
barber's  and  after  that  off  up  again  to  the  hotel  for  more  malt. 
I'll  give  you  a  tip.  Always  drink  in  hotels.  If  you're  in  there  you're 
in  for  a  feed,  or  you've  just  had  a  feed,  or  you've  an  appointment 
there  to  see  a  fellow,  and  you're  having  a  small  one  to  pass  the 
time.  It  looks  very  bad  being  in  bars  during  the  daytime.  It's  a 
thing  to  watch,  that. 

— What  happened  then? 

— What  do  you  think  happened?  What  could  happen?  I  get  me- 
self into  a  quiet  corner  and  I  start  lowering  them  good-o.  I  don't 
know  what  happened  me,  of  course.  I  met  a  few  pals  and  there  is 
some  business  about  a  greyhound  out  in  Cloghran.  It  was  either 
being  bought  or  being  sold  and  I  go  along  in  the  taxi  and  where  we 
were  and  where  we  weren't  I  couldn't  tell  you.  I  fall  asleep  on  a 
chair  in  some  house  in  town  and  next  thing  I  wake  up  perished  with 
the  cold  and  as  sick  as  I  ever  was  in  me  life.  Next  thing  I  know  I'm 
above  in  the  markets.  Taxis  everywhere  of  course,  no  food  only 
the  plate  of  soup  in  the  hotel,  and  be  this  time  the  cheque-book  is 
in  and  out  of  the  pocket  three  or  four  times  a  day,  standing  drinks  all 
round,  kicking  up  a  barney  in  the  lavatory  with  other  drunks,  look- 
ing for  me  rights'  when  I  was  refused  drink — O,  blotto,  there's  no 
other  word  for  it.  I  seen  some  of  the  cheques  since.  The  writing!  A 
pal  carts  me  home  in  a  taxi.  How  long  this  goes  on  I  don't  know. 
I'm  all  right  in  the  middle  of  the  day  but  in  the  mornings  I'm  nearly 
too  weak  to  walk  and  the  shakes  getting  worse  every  day.  Be 
this  time  I'm  getting  frightened  of  meself.  Lookat  here,  mister-me- 
man,  I  say  to  meself,  this'll  have  to  stop.  I  was  afraid  the  heart  might 
give  out,  that  was  the  only  thing  I  was  afraid  of.  Then  I  meet  a  pal 
of  mine  that's  a  doctor.  This  is  inside  in  the  hotel.  There's  only  one 
man  for  you,  he  says,  and  that's  sleep.  Will  you  go  home  and  go  to 
bed  if  I  get  you  something  that'll  make  you  sleep?  Certainly,  I  said. 
I  suppose  this  was  about  four  or  half  four.  Very  well,  says  he,  I'll 
write  you  out  a  prescription.  He  writes  one  out  on  hotel  notepaper. 
I  send  for  a  porter.  Go  across  with  this,  says  I,  to  the  nearest  chemist 
shop  and  get  this  stuff  for  me  and  here's  two  bob  for  yourself. 
Of  course  I'm  at  the  whiskey  all  the  time.  Your  man  comes  back 


512  MYLES    na    gCOPALEEN 

with  a  box  of  long-shaped  green  pills.  You'll  want  to  be  careful 
with  that  stuff,  the  doctor  says,  that  stuff's  very  dangerous.  If  you 
take  one  now  and  take  another  when  you  get  home,  you'll  get  a 
very  good  sleep  but  don't  take  any  more  till  to-morrow  night  be- 
cause that  stuff's  very  dangerous.  So  I  take  one.  But  I  know  the  doc- 
tor doesn't  know  how  bad  I  am.  I  didn't  tell  him  the  whole  story,  no 
damn  fear.  So  out  with  me  to  the  jax  where  I  take  another  one. 
Then  back  for  a  drink,  still  as  wide-awake  as  a  lark.  You'll  have  to 
go  home  now,  the  doctor  says,  we  can't  have  you  passing  out  here, 
that  stuff  acts  very  quickly.  Well,  I  have  one  more  drink  and  off 
with  me,  in  a  bus,  mind  you,  to  the  flat.  I'm  very  surprised  on  the 
bus  to  find  meself  so  wide-awake,  looking  out  at  people  and  reading 
the  signs  on  shops.  Then  I  begin  to  get  afraid  that  the  stuff  is  too 
weak  and  that  I'll  be  lying  awake  for  the  rest  of  the  evening  and  all 
night.  To  hell  with  it,  I  say  to  meself,  we'll  chance  two  more  and  let 
that  be  the  end  of  it.  Down  went  two  more  in  the  bus.  I  get  there 
and  into  the  flat.  I'm  still  wide-awake  and  nothing  will  do  me  only 
one  more  pill  for  luck.  I  get  into  bed.  I  don't  remember  putting 
the  head  on  the  pillow.  I  wouldn't  go  out  quicker  if  you  hit  me  over 
the  head  with  a  crow-bar. 

— You  probably  took  a  dangerous  over-dose. 

— Next  thing  I  know  I'm  awake.  It's  dark.  I  sit  up.  There's 
matches  there  and  I  strike  one.  I  look  at  the  watch.  The  watch  is 
stopped.  I  get  up  and  look  at  the  clock.  Of  course  the  clock  is 
stopped,  hasn't  been  wound  for  days.  I  don't  know  what  time  it  is. 
I'm  a  bit  upset  about  this.  I  turn  on  the  wireless.  It  takes  about  a 
year  to  heat  up  and  would  you  believe  me  I  try  a  dozen  stations  all 
over  the  place  and  not  one  of  them  is  telling  what  the  time  is.  Of 
course  I  knew  there  was  no  point  in  trying  American  stations.  I'm 
very  disappointed  because  I  sort  of  expected  a  voice  to  say  'It  is 
now  seven  thirty  p.m.'  or  whatever  the  time  was.  I  turn  off  the  wire- 
less and  begin  to  wonder.  I  don't  know  what  time  it  is.  Then,  be- 
damnit,  another  thing  strikes  me.  What  day  is  it?  How  long  have 
I  been  asleep  with  that  dose?  Well  lookat,  I  got  a  hell  of  a  fright 
when  I  found  I  didn't  know  what  day  it  was.  I  got  one  hell  of  a 
fright. 

— Was  there  not  an  accumulation  of  milk-bottles  or  newspapers? 

— There  wasn't — all  that  was  stopped  because  I  was  supposed  to 
be  staying  with  the  brother-in-law.  What  do  I  do?  On  with  all  the 


DRINK   AND   TIME   IN   DUBLIN  513 

clothes  and  out  to  find  what  time  it  is  and  what  day  it  is.  The  funny 
thing  is  that  I'm  not  feeling  too  bad.  Off  with  me  down  the  street. 
There's  lights  showing  in  the  houses.  That  means  it's  night-time  and 
not  early  in  the  morning.  Then  I  see  a  bus.  That  means  it's  not  yet 
half-nine,  because  they  stopped  at  half-nine  that  time.  Then  I  see  a 
clock.  It's  twenty  past  nine!  But  I  still  don't  know  what  day  it  is  and 
it's  too  late  to  buy  an  evening  paper.  There's  only  one  thing — into 
a  pub  and  get  a  look  at  one.  So  I  march  into  the  nearest,  very  quiet 
and  correct  and  say  a  bottle  of  stout  please.  All  the  other  customers 
look  very  sober  and  I  think  they  are  all  talking  very  low.  When  the 
man  brings  me  the  bottle  I  say  to  him  I  beg  your  pardon  but  I 
had  a  few  bob  on  a  horse  today,  could  you  give  me  a  look  at  an  eve- 
ning paper?  The  man  looks  at  me  and  says  what  horse  was  it?  It  was 
like  a  blow  in  the  face  to  me,  that  question!  I  can't  answer  at  all  at 
first  and  then  I  stutter  something  about  Hartigan's  horses.  None  of 
them  horses  won  a  race  today,  the  man  says,  and  there  was  a  paper 
here  but  it's  gone.  So  I  drink  up  the  bottle  and  march  out.  It's 
funny,  finding  out  about  the  day.  You  can't  stop  a  man  in  the  street 
and  say  have  you  got  the  right  day  please?  God  knows  what  would 
happen  if  you  done  that.  I  know  be  now  that  it's  no  use  telling  lies 
about  horses,  so  in  with  me  to  another  pub,  order  a  bottle  and  ask 
the  man  has  he  got  an  evening  paper.  The  missus  has  it  upstairs,  he 
says,  there's  nothing  on  it  anyway.  I  now  begin  to  think  the  best 
thing  is  to  dial  O  on  the  phone,  ask  for  Inquiries  and  find  out  that 
way.  I'm  on  me  way  to  a  call-box  when  I  begin  to  think  that's  a 
very  bad  idea.  The  girl  might  say  hold  on  and  I'll  find  out,  I  hang 
on  there  like  a  mug  and  next  thing  the  box  is  surrounded  by  Guards 
and  ambulances  and  attendants  with  ropes.  No  fear,  says  I  to  me- 
self,  there's  going  to  be  no  work  on  the  phone  for  me!  Into  another 
pub.  I  have  the  wind  up  now  and  no  mistake.  How  long  was  I 
knocked  out  be  the  drugs?  A  day?  Two  days?  Was  I  in  the  bed  for  a 
week?  Suddenly  I  see  a  sight  that  gladdens  me  heart.  Away  down  at 
the  end  of  the  pub  there's  an  oul'  fellow  reading  an  evening  paper 
with  a  magnifying  glass.  I  take  a  mouthful  of  stout,  steady  meself, 
and  march  down  to  him.  Me  mind  is  made  up:  if  he  doesn't  hand 
over  the  paper,  I'll  kill  him.  Down  I  go.  Excuse  me,  says  I,  snatch- 
ing the  paper  away  from  him  and  he  still  keeps  looking  through  the 
glass  with  no  paper  there,  I  think  he  was  deaf  as  well  as  half  blind. 
Then  I  read  the  date — I  suppose  it  was  the  first  time  the  date  was 


514  MYLES    na    gCOPALEEN 

the  big  news  on  a  paper.  It  says  'Thursday,  22nd  November,  1945.' 
I  never  enjoyed  a  bit  of  news  so  much.  I  hand  back  the  paper  and 
says  thanks  very  much,  sir,  for  the  loan  of  your  paper.  Then  I  go 
back  to  finish  me  stout,  very  happy  and  pleased  with  me  own  cute- 
ness.  Another  man,  I  say  to  meself,  would  ask  people,  make  a  show 
of  himself  and  maybe  get  locked  up.  But  not  me.  I'm  smart.  Then 
begob  I  nearly  choked. 

— What  was  the  cause  of  that? 

— To-day  is  Thursday,  I  say  to  meself.  Fair  enough.  But  what  .  .  . 
day  did  I  go  to  bed?  What's  the  use  of  knowing  to-day's  Thursday  if 
I  don't  know  when  I  went  to  bed?  I  still  don't  know  whether  I've 
been  asleep  for  a  day  or  a  week!  I  nearly  fell  down  on  the  floor.  I  am 
back  where  I  started.  Only  I  am  feeling  weaker  and  be  now  I  have 
the  wind  up  in  gales.  The  heart  begins  to  knock  so  loud  that  I'm 
afraid  the  man  behind  the  counter  will  hear  it  and  order  me  out. 

— What  did  you  do? 

— Lookat  here,  me  friend,  I  say  to  meself,  take  it  easy.  Go  back 
now  to  the  flat  and  take  it  easy  for  a  while.  This'll  all  end  up  all 
right,  everything  comes  right  in  the  latter  end.  Worse  than  this  hap- 
pened many's  a  man.  And  back  to  the  flat  I  go.  I  collapse  down 
into  a  chair  with  the  hat  still  on  me  head,  I  sink  the  face  down  in  me 
hands,  and  try  to  think.  I'm  like  that  for  maybe  five  minutes.  Then, 
suddenly,  I  know  the  answer!  Without  help  from  papers  or  clocks  or 
people,  I  know  how  long  I  am  there  sleeping  under  the  green  pills! 
How  did  I  know?  Think  that  one  out!  How  would  you  know  if  you 
were  in  the  same  boat? 

(Before  continuing,  readers  may  wish  to  accept  the  sufferer's 
challenge. ) 

— I  am  thinking. 

— Don't  talk  to  me  about  calendars  or  hunger  or  anything  like 
that.  It's  no  use — you  won't  guess.  You  wouldn't  think  of  it  in  a  mil- 
lion years.  Look.  My  face  is  in  my  hands — like  this.  Suddenly  I  no- 
tice the  face  is  smooth.  I'm  not  badly  in  need  of  a  shave.  That  means 
it  must  be  the  same  day  I  went  to  bed  on!  Maybe  the  stomach  or 
something  woke  me  up  for  a  second  or  so.  If  I'd  stopped  in  bed,  I 
was  off  asleep  again  in  a  minute.  But  I  got  up  to  find  the  time  and 
that's  what  ruined  me!  Now  do  you  get  it?  Because  when  I  went 
back  to  bed  that  night,  I  didn't  waken  till  the  middle  of  the  next 
day. 


DRINK   AND   TIME   IN   DUBLIN  515 

— You  asked  me  how  I  would  have  found  out  how  long  I  had 
been  there  after  finding  that  the  day  was  Thursday.  I  have  no 
guarantee  that  a  person  in  your  condition  would  not  get  up  and 
shave  in  his  sleep.  There  was  a  better  way. 

— There  was  no  other  way. 

— There  was.  If  I  were  in  your  place  I  would  have  looked  at  the 
date  on  the  prescription! 


FRANK    O    CONNOR 

First  Confession1 

All  the  trouble  began  when  my  grandfather  died,  and  my 
grandmother — my  father's  mother — came  to  live  with  us.  Relations 
in  the  one  house  are  a  trial  at  the  best  of  times,  but,  to  make  it  worse, 
my  grandmother  was  a  real  old  countrywoman,  and  quite  unsuited 
to  the  life  in  town.  She  had  a  fat,  wrinkled  old  face,  and,  to  my 
mother's  indignation,  went  round  the  house  in  bare  feet — the  boots 
had  her  crippled,  she  said.  For  dinner  she  had  a  jug  of  porter  and  a 
pot  of  potatoes,  with,  sometimes,  a  bit  of  salt  fish,  and  she  poured 
out  the  potatoes  on  the  table  and  ate  them  slowly,  with  great  enjoy- 
ment, using  her  fingers  by  way  of  a  fork. 

Now,  girls  are  supposed  to  be  fastidious,  but  I  was  the  one  who 
suffered  from  that.  Nora,  my  sister,  just  sucked  up  to  the  old  woman 
for  the  penny  she  got  every  Friday  out  of  the  old  age  pension,  a 
thing  I  could  not  do.  I  was  too  honest;  that  was  my  trouble;  and 
when  I  was  playing  with  Bill  Connell,  the  sergeant-major's  son,  and 
saw  my  grandmother  steering  up  the  path  with  the  jug  of  porter 
sticking  out  from  beneath  her  shawl,  I  was  mortified.  I  made  ex- 
cuses not  to  let  him  come  into  the  house,  because  I  could  never  be 
sure  what  she  would  be  up  to  when  we  went  in. 

When  my  mother  was  at  work,  and  my  grandmother  made  the 
dinner  I  wouldn't  even  touch  it.  Nora  tried  to  make  me  once,  but  I 
hid  under  the  table  from  her,  and  took  the  bread-knife  with  me  for 
safety.  Nora  let  on  to  be  very  indignant  ( she  wasn't,  of  course,  but 
she  knew  that  mother  saw  through  her  and  sided  with  father  and 
Gran)  and  came  after  me.  I  lashed  out  at  her  with  the  knife,  and 
after  that  she  left  me  alone.  I  stayed  there  till  my  mother  came  in 
from  work,  and  she  made  dinner  for  me;  but  then  my  father  came 
home  and  Nora  said  in  a  shocked  voice:  'Oh,  dadda,  do  you  know 
what  Jackie  did  at  dinner-time?'  Then,  of  course,  it  all  came  out, 
and  he  gave  me  a  leathering  and  the  mother  interfered,  and  for  days 
after  he  wouldn't  even  look  at  me.  God  knows,  I  was  heart-scalded! 

Then,  to  crown  my  misfortunes,  I  had  to  make  my  first  confession 
and  communion.  It  was  an  old  woman  called  Ryan  who  prepared  us 
for  that.  She  was  about  the  one  age  with  Gran,  only  she  was  well- 
to-do,  lived  in  a  big  house  on  Montenotte,  wore  a  black  cloak  and 

1  From  Traveller's  Samples,  New  York.  Copyright  1951  by  Frank  O'Connor. 

516 


FIRST   CONFESSION  517 

bonnet,  and  came  every  day  to  the  school  at  three  o'clock,  when  we 
should  have  been  going  home,  to  talk  to  us  about  Hell.  She  may 
have  mentioned  the  other  place  as  well,  but  that  could  only  have 
been  by  accident  for  Hell  had  the  first  place  in  her  heart. 

She  lit  a  candle  and  took  out  a  new  half-crown  and  offered  it  to 
the  first  fellow  who  would  hold  one  finger — only  one  finger! — in  the 
flame  for  five  minutes  by  the  school  clock.  I  was  always  very  ambi- 
tious, and  was  tempted  to  volunteer,  only  as  no  one  else  did,  I 
thought  it  might  look  greedy.  Then  she  asked  were  we  afraid  of  hold- 
ing one  finger — only  one  finger! — in  a  little  bit  of  candle  for  five  min- 
utes, and  not  afraid  of  burning  all  over  in  roasting  hot  furnaces  for 
all  eternity.  'All  eternity!  Just  think  of  that!  A  whole  lifetime  goes  by, 
and  it's  nothing;  only  a  drop  in  the  ocean  of  your  sufferings.'  The 
woman  was  really  interesting  about  Hell,  but  I  had  very  little  atten- 
tion to  spare  from  the  half-crown  which  was  still  on  the  desk  beside 
her.  At  the  end  of  the  lesson  she  put  it  back  in  her  purse.  It  was  a 
great  disappointment  in  a  religious  woman  like  that. 

Another  day  she  said  she  knew  a  priest  who  woke  one  night  to  find 
a  fellow  he  didn't  recognise  leaning  over  the  end  of  his  bed.  The 
priest  was  a  bit  frightened — naturally  enough — but  he  asked  the  fel- 
low what  he  wanted,  and  the  fellow  said  in  a  low,  husky  voice  that 
he  wanted  to  go  to  confession.  The  priest  said  it  was  an  awkward 
time  and  wouldn't  it  do  in  the  morning?  but  the  other  chap  said  the 
last  time  he  went  to  confession  there  was  one  sin  he  kept  back  be- 
cause he  was  ashamed  to  mention  it,  and  now  it  was  always  on  his 
mind.  Then  the  priest  knew  it  was  a  serious  case,  because  the  fellow 
was  after  making  a  bad  confession  and  committing  a  mortal  sin.  He 
got  up  to  dress,  and  just  then  the  cock  crew  in  the  yard  outside,  and 
lo  and  behold!  when  the  priest  looked  round  there  was  no  sign  of  the 
fellow  at  all,  only  an  awful  smell  like  burning  timber,  and  when  the 
priest  looked  at  the  bed  didn't  he  see  the  print  of  two  hands  burned 
in  it?  That  was  because  the  fellow  had  made  a  bad  confession.  This 
story  made  a  shocking  impression  on  me. 

But  the  worst  of  all  was  when  she  showed  us  how  to  examine  our 
consciences.  Did  we  take  the  name  of  God  in  vain?  Did  we  honour 
our  father  and  our  mother?  (I  asked  her  did  this  include  grand- 
mothers and  she  said  it  did.)  Did  we  love  our  neighbour  as  our- 
selves? Did  we  covet  our  neighbour's  goods?  They  seemed  to  include 
every  blooming  thing  down  to  the  penny  that  Nora  got  on  Fridays. 
I  think,  between  one  thing  and  another,  I  must  have  broken  all  the 


518  FRANK   OCONNOR 

commandments,  all  on  account  of  that  old  woman,  and,  as  far  as  I 
could  see  as  long  as  she  was  in  the  house  I  had  no  hope  of  ever 
doing  anything  else. 

I  was  scared  to  death  of  confession.  The  day  the  whole  class  went 
I  let  on  to  have  the  toothache,  hoping  my  absence  from  school 
wouldn't  be  noticed,  but  at  three  o'clock,  just  when  I  was  feeling 
safe,  along  came  a  chap  with  a  message  from  Mrs.  Ryan  to  say  I  was 
to  go  to  confession  myself  and  be  at  the  chapel  for  Communion  on 
Sunday  morning.  To  make  it  worse,  my  mother  couldn't  come  with 
me  and  sent  Nora  instead. 

Now,  that  girl  had  ways  of  tormenting  me  that  my  mother  never 
knew.  She  held  my  hand  as  we  went  down  the  hill,  smiling  and  say- 
ing how  sorry  she  was  for  me. 

'Oh,  God  help  us!'  she  said.  Tsn't  it  a  terrible  pity  you  weren't  a 
good  boy?  Oh,  Jackie,  my  heart  bleeds  for  you!  How  will  you  think 
of  all  your  sins?  Do  you  remember  the  time  you  kicked  Gran  on 
the  shin?' 

'Lemme  go!'  I  wailed,  trying  to  drag  myself  away  from  her.  T 
won't  go  to  confession  at  all.' 

'Sure,  you'll  have  to  go,  Jackie,'  she  replied  in  the  same  regretful 
tone.  'Sure,  if  you  didn't  the  parish  priest  would  be  up  to  the  house, 
looking  for  you.  'Tisn't,  God  knows,  that  I'm  not  sorry  for  you!  Do 
you  remember  the  time  you  tried  to  kill  me  with  the  bread-knife 
under  the  table?  And  the  language  you  used  to  me?  Oh,  I  don't  know 
what'll  he  do  to  you  at  all.  He  might  send  you  up  to  the  Bishop.' 

I  remember  thinking  that  she  didn't  know  the  half  of  what  I  had 
to  tell,  if  I  did  tell  it.  There  is  very  little  about  that  day  that  I  don't 
remember — the  steep  hill  down  to  the  church,  and  the  sunlit  hill- 
sides at  the  other  side  of  the  river-valley  seen  between  gaps  in  the 
houses,  like  Adam's  last  glimpse  of  Paradise. 

Then,  as  she  got  me  down  the  long  flight  of  steps  into  the  chapel 
yard  and  under  the  big  limestone  portico  Nora  suddenly  changed 
her  tune. 

'There  you  are!'  she  said  with  a  yelp  of  triumph,  hurling  me  from 
her  through  the  church  door.  'And  I  hope  he'll  give  you  the  peni- 
tential psalms,  you  dirty  little  caffler!' 

I  knew  then  I  was  lost.  The  door  with  the  coloured  glass  panels 
swung  shut  behind  me;  the  sunlight  went  out  and  gave  place  to 
deep  shadow,  and  the  wind  whistled  outside  so  that  the  silence 


FIRST  CONFESSION  519 

seemed  to  be  frozen  and  to  crackle  like  ice  under  my  feet  as  I  tip- 
toed up  the  aisle.  Nora  sat  in  front  of  me  beside  the  confession  box. 
There  were  a  couple  of  old  women  ahead  of  her,  and  then  a  miser- 
able-looking poor  devil  came  and  wedged  me  in  at  the  other  side,  so 
that  I  couldn't  escape  even  if  I  wanted  to.  He  joined  his  hands  and 
rolled  his  eyes  in  the  direction  of  the  roof,  muttering  aspirations  in 
an  anguished  tone,  and  I  wondered  had  he  a  grandmother  too.  That, 
I  felt,  was  the  way  you'd  expect  a  fellow  with  a  grandmother  to  be- 
have, but  I  was  worse  off  than  he,  for  I  knew  that  just  like  the  man 
in  the  story,  I'd  never  have  the  nerve  to  tell  all  my  sins;  that  I 
should  make  a  bad  confession  and  then  die  in  the  night  and  be  con- 
tinually coming  back  and  burning  people's  furniture. 

Nora's  turn  came,  and  I  heard  the  sound  of  something  slamming, 
and  then  I  heard  her  voice  as  if  butter  wouldn't  melt  in  her  mouth, 
and  the  thing  slammed  again  and  it  was  all  over.  God,  the  hypocrisy 
of  women!  Her  eyes  were  lowered,  her  hands  were  joined  on  her 
stomach,  and  she  walked  up  the  aisle  to  the  side-altar  as  if  she  was 
treading  on  egg-shells.  I  remembered  the  devilish  malice  with  which 
she  had  tormented  me  all  the  way  from  home,  and  I  wondered  if  all 
religious  people  were  like  that.  It  was  my  turn  now.  I  went  in  with 
the  fear  of  damnation  in  my  soul,  and  the  confessional  door  closed 
of  itself  behind  me. 

It  was  pitch-black  inside.  I  couldn't  see  priest  or  anything  else. 
Then  I  really  began  to  be  frightened.  In  the  darkness  it  was  a  mat- 
ter between  God  and  me,  and  God  had  all  the  odds.  He  knew  what 
my  intentions  were  even  before  I  started.  I  had  no  chance  at  all.  All 
I  had  ever  been  told  about  confession  got  mixed  up  in  my  mind,  and 
I  knelt  to  one  wall  and  said,  'Bless  me,  father,  for  I  have  sinned; 
this  is  my  first  confession.'  I  waited  for  a  few  minutes  but  nothing 
happened,  so  I  tried  it  on  the  other  wall.  Nothing  happened  there 
either.  He  had  me  spotted  all  right. 

It  must  have  been  then  that  I  noticed  the  shelf  at  about  the  one 
height  with  my  head.  It  struck  me  that  it  was  probably  the  place  you 
were  supposed  to  kneel.  Of  course,  it  was  on  the  high  side,  and  not 
very  deep,  but  by  this  time  I  was  beyond  all  rational  considerations. 
Mind  you,  it  took  some  climbing,  but  I  was  always  good  at  that, 
and  I  managed  to  get  up  all  right.  The  trouble  was  to  stay  up.  There 
was  just  room  for  my  knees,  but,  apart  from  a  sort  of  moulding  in 
the  outer  wall,  nothing  you  could  get  a  grip  on.  I  held  on  to  the 


520  FRANK   OCONNOR 

moulding  and  repeated  the  words  a  little  louder,  and  this  time  some- 
thing happened  all  right.  A  slide  was  slammed  back  and  a  man's 
voice  asked  after  a  moment:  'Who's  there?' 

'  'Tis  me,  father,'  said  I,  for  fear  he  mightn't  see  me  and  go  away 
again.  I  couldn't  see  him  at  all.  The  place  his  voice  came  from  was 
under  the  moulding,  about  level  with  my  knees,  so  I  took  a  good 
grip  of  the  moulding  and  swung  myself  down  till  I  saw  the  aston- 
ished face  of  a  young  priest  looking  up  at  me.  He  had  to  put  his 
head  on  one  side  to  see  me,  and  I  had  to  put  mine  on  one  side 
to  see  him,  so  we  were  more  or  less  talking  to  one  another  upside 
down.  It  struck  me  as  a  very  queer  way  to  hear  confessions,  but  I 
didn't  feel  it  was  my  place  to  criticise. 

'Bless  me,  father,  for  I  have  sinned;  this  is  my  first  confession,' 
I  rattled  off,  all  in  one  breath,  and  swung  myself  down  the  least 
shade  more  to  make  it  easier  for  him. 

'What  are  you  doing  up  there?'  he  shouted  in  an  angry  voice,  and 
the  strain  the  politeness  was  putting  on  my  hold  of  the  moulding, 
and  the  shock  of  being  addressed  in  that  uncivil  way  were  too  much 
for  me.  Down  I  tumbled  and  hit  the  door  an  unmerciful  wallop  be- 
fore I  found  myself  on  the  flat  of  my  back  in  the  middle  of  the  aisle. 
The  priest  opened  the  door  of  the  middle  box  and  came  out,  pushing 
the  biretta  back  from  his  forehead.  He  looked  something  terrible. 
Then  Nora  came  scampering  down  the  aisle  from  the  altar. 

'Oh,  you  dirty  little  cafHer!'  she  said.  T  might  have  known  you'd 
do  it!  I  might  have  known  you'd  disgrace  me!  I  can't  leave  you  out 
of  my  sight  for  a  minute.' 

Before  I  even  got  to  my  feet  she  bent  down  and  gave  me  a  smack 
across  the  ear.  This  reminded  me  that  I  was  so  stunned  I  had  even 
forgotten  to  cry,  so  that  people  might  think  I  wasn't  hurt  at  all, 
when,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  I  was  probably  crippled  for  life. 

'What's  all  this  about?'  said  the  priest,  getting  angrier  than  ever, 
and  pushing  her  off  me.  'How  dare  you  hit  the  child  like  that,  you 
little  vixen?' 

'But  I  can't  do  my  penance  with  him,  father,'  cried  Nora,  cocking 
an  outraged  eye  up  at  him. 

'Well,  go  on  and  do  it,'  he  said,  giving  me  a  hand  up,  'or  I'll  give 
you  some  more  to  do.  .  .  .  Was  it  coming  to  confession  you  were, 
my  poor  man?'  he  asked  me. 

'  'Twas,  father,'  said  I  with  a  sob. 


FIRST   CONFESSION  521 

'Oh,'  he  said  in  a  respectful  tone,  'a  big,  hefty  fellow  like  you  must 
have  terrible  sins.  Is  this  your  first?' 

"Tis,  father,'  said  I. 

'Worse  and  worse,'  he  said,  shaking  his  head  gloomily.  'You  have 
the  crimes  of  a  lifetime  to  tell.  I  don't  know  will  I  get  rid  of  you  at 
all  today.  You'd  better  sit  down  here  and  wait  till  I'm  finished  with 
these  old  ones.  You  can  see  by  the  looks  of  them  they  haven't  much 
to  tell.' 

T  will  so,  father,'  I  said  with  something  approaching  joy. 

The  relief  of  it  was  enormous.  Nora  stuck  out  her  tongue  at  me 
behind  his  back,  but  I  couldn't  even  be  bothered  noticing  it.  I  knew 
from  the  very  moment  that  man  opened  his  mouth  that  he  was  ex- 
ceptionally intelligent.  It  only  stood  to  reason  that  a  fellow  confess- 
ing his  sins  after  seven  years  would  have  more  to  tell  than  people 
that  went  every  week.  That  was  what  the  priest  expected,  and  the 
rest  was  only  old  women  and  girls  and  their  talk  about  Hell  and  the 
penitential  psalms — people  with  no  experience  of  life.  I  started  to 
make  my  examination  of  conscience,  and,  barring  the  things  about 
the  grandmother,  it  didn't  seem  too  bad. 

The  next  time  the  priest  steered  me  into  the  confession  box  him- 
self and  left  the  shutter  back  the  way  I'd  see  him  sitting  down  at  the 
other  side  with  his  biretta  pulled  well  down  over  his  eyes. 

'Well  now,'  he  said,  'what  do  they  call  you?' 

'Jackie,  father,'  said  I. 

'And  what's  a-trouble  to  you,  Jackie?'  he  said. 

'Father,'  I  said,  feeling  I  might  as  well  get  it  over  while  I  had  him 
in  good  humour,  T  had  it  all  arranged  to  kill  my  grandmother!' 

He  seemed  a  bit  shaken  by  that  all  right,  because  he  didn't  say 
anything  for  a  while. 

'My  goodness,'  he  said  at  last,  'that'd  be  a  shocking  thing  to  do. 
What  put  that  into  your  head?' 

'Father,'  I  said,  feeling  very  sorry  for  myself,  'she's  an  awful 
woman.' 

'Is  she?'  he  asked.  'What  way  is  she  awful?' 

'She  takes  porter,  father,'  said  I,  knowing  well  from  the  way  the 
mother  talked  of  porter  that  it  must  be  a  mortal  sin,  and  hoping  it 
might  make  the  priest  see  my  point  of  view. 

'Oh,  my!'  he  said. 

'And  snuff,  father,'  said  I. 


522  FRANK   OCONNOR 

'She's  a  bad  case  all  right,  Jackie,'  he  said. 

'And  she  goes  round  in  her  bare  feet,  father,'  said  I.  'And  she 
knows  I  don't  like  her,  and  she  gives  pennies  to  Nora  and  none  to  me, 
and  my  da  sides  with  her  and  beats  me,  so  one  night  I  was  so  heart- 
scalded  I  made  up  my  mind  I'd  have  to  kill  her.' 

'And  what  would  you  do  with  the  body?'  he  asked  with  great  in- 
terest. 

1  was  thinking  I  could  cut  it  up  and  carry  it  away  in  a  barrow  I 
have,'  said  I. 

'Begor,  Jackie,'  said  he,  'do  you  know,  you're  a  terrible  child?' 

'I  know,  father,'  said  I.  (I  was  thinking  the  same  thing  myself.) 
1  tried  to  kill  Nora  too,  with  a  bread-knife,  under  the  table,  only  I 
missed  her/ 

'Is  that  the  little  girl  that  was  beating  you  just  now?'  he  asked. 

'  'Tis,  father,'  said  I. 

'Someone  will  go  for  her  with  a  bread-knife  one  day,  and  he  won't 
miss  her,'  he  said.  'But  you  must  have  great  courage.  There's  lots  of 
people  I'd  like  to  do  the  same  to,  between  ourselves,  but  I'd  never 
have  the  nerve.  Hanging  is  an  awful  death.' 

'Is  it,  father?'  said  I  with  the  deepest  interest.  ( I  was  always  very 
keen  on  hanging. )  'Did  you  ever  see  a  fellow  hanged?' 

'I  saw  dozens  of  them,'  he  assured  me  solemnly,  'and  they  all  died 
roaring.' 

'Jay!'  said  I. 

'Oh,  'tis  a  horrible  death,'  he  said  with  great  satisfaction.  'Lots  of 
the  fellows  I  saw  killed  their  grandmothers  too,  but  any  of  them  I 
asked  said  'twas  never  worth  it/ 

He  had  me  there  for  a  full  ten  minutes,  talking,  and  then  walked 
out  to  the  chapel  yard  with  me.  I  was  quite  sorry  to  part  with  him  be- 
cause he  was  the  most  entertaining  man  I'd  ever  met  in  the  religious 
line.  Outside,  the  sunlight  after  the  shadow  of  the  church  was  like  the 
roaring  of  waves  on  a  beach;  it  dazzled  me,  and  when  the  frozen 
silence  melted  and  I  heard  the  scream  of  trams  on  the  road,  the  heart 
rose  in  me.  But  the  best  of  all  was  to  know  I  wouldn't  die  that  night 
and  come  back  leaving  marks  on  my  poor  mother's  furniture.  I  knew 
it  would  be  a  great  worry  to  her  and  the  poor  soul  had  enough. 

Nora  was  sitting  on  the  railing,  waiting  for  me,  and  she  put  on  a 
very  sour  puss  when  she  saw  the  priest  along  with  me.  She  was  mad 
jealous  because  a  priest  had  never  come  out  of  the  church  with  her. 


FIRST   CONFESSION  523 

Well,'  she  asked  coldly  after  he  parted  me,  'what  did  he  give  you?' 

'Three  Hail  Marys,'  said  I. 

'Three  Hail  Marys?'  she  repeated  incredulously.  'You  mustn't  have 
told  him  anything.' 

T  told  him  everything,'  I  said  confidently. 

'About  Gran  and  all?' 

'About  Gran  and  all.' 

(All  she  wanted  was  to  be  able  to  go  home  and  say  I  had  made 
a  bad  confession. ) 

'Did  you  tell  him  you  went  for  me  with  the  bread-knife?'  she  asked 
with  a  frown. 

'I  did  to  be  sure,'  said  I. 

'And  he  only  gave  you  three  Hail  Marys?' 

'That's  all.' 

She  got  down  off  the  railing  slowly  with  a  baffled  air.  Clearly,  this 
was  beyond  her.  As  we  mounted  the  steps  to  the  main  road  she 
looked  at  me  suspiciously. 

'What  are  you  sucking?'  she  asked. 

'Bulls'  eyes,'  I  said. 

'Was  it  the  priest  gave  them  to  you?' 

'  'Twas.' 

'Lord  God!'  she  wailed  bitterly.  'Some  people  have  all  the  luck! 
'Tis  no  advantage  to  anybody  trying  to  be  good.  I  might  just  as  well 
be  a  sinner  like  you.' 


Part  VI 

NO  COUNTRY  FOR  OLD  MEN 


That  is  no  country  for  old  men.  The  young 

In  one  another's  arms,  birds  in  the  trees  .  . 

W.  B.  Yeats 


JAMES     JOYCE 

The  Sirens1 

£>RONZE  BY  GOLD  HEARD  THE  HOOFDRONS,   STEEL YRINGING. 

Imperthnthn  thnthnthn. 

Chips,  picking  chips  off  rocky  thumbnail,  chips. 

Horrid!  And  gold  flushed  more. 

A  husky  fifenote  blew. 

Blew.  Blue  bloom  is  on  the 

Gold  pinnacled  hair. 

A  jumping  rose  on  satiny  breasts  of  satin,  rose  of  Castille. 

Trilling,  trilling:  Idolores. 

Peep!  Who's  in  the  .  .  .  peepofgold? 

Tink  cried  to  bronze  in  pity. 

And  a  call,  pure,  long  and  throbbing.  Longindying  call. 

Decoy.  Soft  word.  But  look!  The  bright  stars  fade.  O  rose! 
Notes  chirruping  answer.  Castille.  The  morn  is  breaking. 

Jingle  jingle  jaunted  jingling. 

Coin  rang.  Clock  clacked. 

Avowal.  Sonnez.  I  could.  Rebound  of  garter.  Not  leave  thee. 
Smack.  La  cloche!  Thigh  smack.  Avowal.  Warm.  Sweetheart,  good- 
bye! 

Jingle.  Bloo. 

Boomed  crashing  chords.  When  love  absorbs.  War!  War!  The  tym- 
panum. 

A  sail!  A  veil  awave  upon  the  waves. 

Lost.  Throstle  fluted.  All  is  lost  now. 

Horn.  Hawhorn. 

When  first  he  saw.  Alas! 

Full  tup.  Full  throb. 

Warbling.  Ah,  lure!  Alluring. 

Martha!  Come! 

Clapclop.  Clipclap.  Clappyclap. 

Goodgod  heneverheard  inall 

Deaf  bald  Pat  brought  pad  knife  took  up. 

A  moonlit  nightcall:  far:  far. 

I  feel  so  sad.  P.  S.  So  lonely  blooming. 

1  From  Ulysses,  Paris,  1922;  the  most  helpful  elucidation  of  this  passage  and  of  the  entire 
work  may  be  found  in  Stuart  Gilbert's  James  Joyce's  Ulysses  and  Richard  M.  Rain's  Fabulous 
Voyager.  See  also  our  note,  p.  562,  after  this  selection. 

527 


528  JAMES    JOYCE 

Listen! 

The  spiked  and  winding  cold  seahorn.  Have  you  the?  Each  and 
for  other  plash  and  silent  roar. 

Pearls:  when  she.  Liszt's  rhapsodies.  Hissss. 

You  don't? 

Did  not:  no,  no:  believe:  Lidlyd.  With  a  cock  with  a  carra. 

Black. 

Deepsounding.  Do,  Ben,  do. 

Wait  while  you  wait.  Hee  hee.  Wait  while  you  hee. 

But  wait! 

Low  in  dark  middle  earth.  Embedded  ore. 

Naminedamine.  All  gone.  All  fallen. 

Tiny,  her  tremulous  fernfoils  of  maidenhair. 

Amen!  He  gnashed  in  fury. 

Fro.  To,  fro.  A  baton  cool  protruding. 

Bronzelydia  by  Minagold. 
91  By  bronze,  by  gold,  in  oceangreen  of  shadow.  Bloom.  Old  Bloom. 
fjjiOne  rapped,  one  tapped  with  a  carra,  with  a  cock. 

Pw.f  for  him!  Pray,  good  people! 
o^  is  gouty  fingers  nakkering. 
?g  Benaben.  Big  Benben. 
ast  rose  Castille  of  summer  left  bloom  I  feel  so  sad  alone. 

Pwee!  Little  wind  piped  wee. 

True  men.  Lid  Ker  Cow  De  and  Doll.  Ay,  ay.  Like  you  men.  Will 
lift  your  tschink  with  tschunk. 

Fff!  Oo! 

Where  bronze  from  anear?  Where  gold  from  afar?  Where  hoofs? 

Rrrpr.  Kraa.  Kraandl. 

Then,  not  till  then.  My  eppripfftaph.  Be  pfrwritt. 

Done. 

Begin! 

Bronze  by  gold,  Miss  Douce's  head  by  Miss  Kennedy's  head,  over 
the  crossblind  of  the  Ormond  bar  heard  the  viceregal  hoofs  go  by, 
ringing  steel. 

— Is  that  her?  asked  Miss  Kennedy. 

Miss  Douce  said  yes,  sitting  with  his  ex,  pearl  grey  and  eau  de  Nil. 

— Exquisite  contrast,  Miss  Kennedy  said. 

When  all  agog  Miss  Douce  said  eagerly: 

— Look  at  the  fellow  in  the  tall  silk. 


THE   SIRENS  529 

— Who?  Where?  gold  asked  more  eagerly. 

— In  the  second  carriage,  Miss  Douce's  wet  lips  said,  laughing  in 
the  sun.  He's  looking.  Mind  till  I  see. 

She  darted,  bronze,  to  the  backmost  corner,  flattening  her  face 
against  the  pane  in  a  halo  of  hurried  breath. 

Her  wet  lips  tittered: 

— He's  killed  looking  back. 

She  laughed: 

— O  wept!  Aren't  men  frightful  idiots? 

With  sadness. 

Miss  Kennedy  sauntered  sadly  from  bright  light,  twining  a  loose 
hair  behind  an  ear.  Sauntering  sadly,  gold  no  more,  she  twisted 
twined  a  hair.  Sadly  she  twined  in  sauntering  gold  hair  behind  a 
curving  ear. 

— It's  them  has  the  fine  times,  sadly  then  she  said. 

A  man. 

Bloowho  went  by  by  Moulang's  pipes,  bearing  in  his  breast  th 
sweets  of  sin,  by  Wine's  antiques  in  memory  bearing  sweet  sinrVl 
words,  by  Carroll's  dusky  battered  plate,  for  Raoul. 

The  boots  to  them,  them  in  the  bar,  them  barmaids  came.  »r 
them  unheeding  him  he  banged  on  the  counter  his  tray  of  cha  r- 
ing  china.  And 

— There's  your  teas,  he  said. 

Miss  Kennedy  with  manners  transposed  the  teatray  down  to  an 
upturned  lithia  crate,  safe  from  eyes,  low. 

— What  is  it?  loud  boots  unmannerly  asked. 

— Find  out,  Miss  Douce  retorted,  leaving  her  spyingpoint. 

— Your  beau,  is  it? 

A  haughty  bronze  replied: 

— I'll  complain  to  Mrs  de  Massey  on  you  if  I  hear  any  more  of 
your  impertinent  insolence. 

— Imperthnthn  thnthnthn,  bootsnout  sniffed  rudely,  as  he  re- 
treated as  she  threatened  as  he  had  come. 

Bloom. 

On  her  flower  frowning  Miss  Douce  said: 

— Most  aggravating  that  young  brat  is.  If  he  doesn't  conduct  him- 
self I'll  wring  his  ear  for  him  a  yard  long. 

Ladylike  in  exquisite  contrast. 

— Take  no  notice,  Miss  Kennedy  rejoined. 

She  poured  in  a  teacup  tea,  then  back  in  the  teapot  tea.  They 


530  JAMES    JOYCE 

cowered  under  their  reef  of  counter,  waiting  on  footstools,  crates 
upturned,  waiting  for  their  teas  to  draw.  They  pawed  their  blouses, 
both  of  black  satin,  two  and  nine  a  yard,  waiting  for  their  teas  to 
draw,  and  two  and  seven. 

Yes,  bronze  from  anear,  by  gold  from  afar,  heard  steel  from 
anear,  hoofs  ring  from  afar,  and  heard  steelhoofs  ringhoof  ringsteel. 

— Am  I  awfully  sunburnt? 

Miss  bronze  unbloused  her  neck. 

— No,  said  Miss  Kennedy.  It  gets  brown  after.  Did  you  try  the 
borax  with  the  cherry  laurel  water? 

Miss  Douce  halfstood  to  see  her  skin  askance  in  the  barmirror 
gildedlettered  where  hock  and  claret  glasses  shimmered  and  in  their 
midst  a  shell. 

— And  leave  it  to  my  hands,  she  said. 

— Try  it  with  the  glycerine,  Miss  Kennedy  advised. 

Bidding  her  neck  and  hands  adieu  Miss  Douce 

— Those  things  only  bring  out  a  rash,  replied,  reseated.  I  asked 
that  old  fogey  in  Boyd's  for  something  for  my  skin. 

Miss  Kennedy,  pouring  now  fulldrawn  tea,  grimaced  and  prayed: 

— O,  don't  remind  me  of  him  for  mercy'sake! 

— But  wait  till  I  tell  you,  Miss  Douce  entreated. 

Sweet  tea  Miss  Kennedy  having  poured  with  milk  plugged  both 
two  ears  with  little  fingers. 

— No,  don't,  she  cried. 

— I  won't  listen,  she  cried. 

But  Bloom? 

Miss  Douce  grunted  in  snuffy  fogey's  tone: 

— For  your  what?  says  he. 

Miss  Kennedy  unplugged  her  ears  to  hear,  to  speak:  but  said,  but 
prayed  again: 

— Don't  let  me  think  of  him  or  I'll  expire.  The  hideous  old 
wretch!  That  night  in  the  Antient  Concert  Rooms. 

She  sipped  distastefully  her  brew,  hot  tea,  a  sip,  sipped  sweet  tea. 

— Here  he  was,  Miss  Douce  said,  cocking  her  bronze  head  three 
quarters,  ruffling  her  nosewings.  Hufa!  Hufa! 

Shrill  shriek  of  laughter  sprang  from  Miss  Kennedy's  throat.  Miss 
Douce  huffed  and  snorted  down  her  nostrils  that  quivered  imper- 
thnthn  like  a  shout  in  quest. 

— O!  shrieking,  Miss  Kennedy  cried.  Will  you  ever  forget  his  gog- 
gle eye? 


THE    SIRENS  531 

Miss  Douce  chimed  in  in  deep  bronze  laughter,  shouting: 

— And  your  other  eye! 

Bloowhose  dark  eye  read  Aaron  Figatner's  name.  Why  do  I  al- 
ways think  Figather?  Gathering  figs  I  think.  And  Prosper  Lore's 
huguenot  name.  By  Bassi's  blessed  virgins  Bloom's  dark  eyes  went 
by.  Bluerobed,  white  under,  come  to  me.  God  they  believe  she  is: 
or  goddess.  Those  today.  I  could  not  see.  That  fellow  spoke.  A  stu- 
dent. After  with  Dedalus'  son.  He  might  be  Mulligan.  All  comely 
virgins.  That  brings  those  rakes  of  fellows  in:  her  white. 

By  went  his  eyes.  The  sweets  of  sin.  Sweet  are  the  sweets. 

Of  sin. 

In  a  giggling  peal  young  goldbronze  voices  blended,  Douce  with 
Kennedy  your  other  eye.  They  threw  young  heads  back,  bronze  gig- 
glegold,  to  let  freefly  their  laughter,  screaming,  your  other,  signals 
to  each  other,  high  piercing  notes. 

Ah,  panting,  sighing.  Sighing,  ah,  fordone  their  mirth  died  down. 

Miss  Kennedy  lipped  her  cup  again,  raised,  drank  a  sip  and 
gigglegiggled.  Miss  Douce,  bending  again  over  the  teatray,  ruffled 
again  her  nose  and  rolled  droll  fattened  eyes.  Again  Kennygiggles, 
stooping  her  fair  pinnacles  of  hair,  stooping,  her  tortoise  nape- 
comb  showed,  spluttered  out  of  her  mouth  her  tea,  choking  in  tea 
and  laughter,  coughing  with  choking,  crying: 

— O  greasy  eyes!  Imagine  being  married  to  a  man  like  that,  she 
cried.  With  his  bit  of  beard! 

Douce  gave  full  vent  to  a  splendid  yell,  a  full  yell  of  full  woman, 
delight,  joy,  indignation. 

— Married  to  the  greasy  nose!  she  yelled. 

Shrill,  with  deep  laughter,  after  bronze  in  gold,  they  urged  each 
each  to  peal  after  peal,  ringing  in  changes,  bronzegold  goldbronze, 
shrilldeep,  to  laughter  after  laughter.  And  then  laughed  more. 
Greasy  I  knows.  Exhausted,  breathless  their  shaken  heads  they  laid, 
braided  and  pinnacled  by  glossycombed,  against  the  counterledge. 
All  flushed  (O!),  panting,  sweating  (O!),  all  breathless. 

Married  to  Bloom,  to  greaseaseabloom. 

— O  saints  above!  Miss  Douce  said,  sighed  above  her  jumping 
rose.  I  wished  I  hadn't  laughed  so  much.  I  feel  all  wet. 

— O,  Miss  Douce!  Miss  Kennedy  protested.  You  horrid  thing! 

And  flushed  yet  more  (you  horrid!),  more  goldenly. 

By  Cantwell's  offices  roved  Greaseabloom,  by  Ceppi's  virgins, 
bright  of  their  oils.  Nannetti's  father  hawked  those  things  about, 


532  JAMES    JOYCE 

wheedling  at  doors  as  I.  Religion  pays.  Must  see  him  about  Keyes's 
par.  Eat  first.  I  want.  Not  yet.  At  four,  she  said.  Time  ever  passing. 
Clockhands  turning.  On.  Where  eat?  The  Clarence,  Dolphin.  On. 
For  Raoul.  Eat.  If  I  net  five  guineas  with  those  ads.  The  violet  silk 
petticoats.  Not  yet.  The  sweets  of  sin. 

Flushed  less,  still  less,  goldenly  paled. 

Into  their  bar  strolled  Mr  Dedalus.  Chips,  picking  chips  off  one  of 
his  rocky  thumbnails.  Chips.  He  strolled. 

— O  welcome  back,  Miss  Douce. 

He  held  her  hand.  Enjoyed  her  holidays? 

— Tiptop. 

He  hoped  she  had  nice  weather  in  Rostrevor. 

— Gorgeous,  she  said.  Look  at  the  holy  show  I  am.  Lying  out  on 
the  strand  all  day. 

Bronze  whiteness. 

— That  was  exceedingly  naughty  of  you,  Mr  Dedalus  told  her  and 
pressed  her  hand  indulgently.  Tempting  poor  simple  males. 

Miss  Douce  of  satin  douced  her  arm  away. 

— O  go  away,  she  said.  You're  very  simple,  I  don't  think. 

He  was. 

— Well  now,  I  am,  he  mused.  I  looked  so  simple  in  the  cradle  they 
christened  me  simple  Simon. 

— You  must  have  been  a  doaty,  Miss  Douce  made  answer.  And 
what  did  the  doctor  order  today? 

— Well  now,  he  mused,  whatever  you  say  yourself.  I  think  I'll  trou- 
ble you  for  some  fresh  water  and  a  half  glass  of  whisky. 

Jingle. 

— With  the  greatest  alacrity,  Miss  Douce  agreed. 

With  grace  of  alacrity  towards  the  mirror  gilt  Cantrell  and  Coch- 
rane's  she  turned  herself.  With  grace  she  tapped  a  measure  of  gold 
whisky  from  her  crystal  keg.  Forth  from  the  skirt  of  his  coat  Mr 
Dedalus  brought  pouch  and  pipe.  Alacrity  she  served.  He  blew 
through  the  flue  two  husky  fifenotes. 

— By  Jove,  he  mused.  I  often  wanted  to  see  the  Mourne  mountains. 
Must  be  a  great  tonic  in  the  air  down  there.  But  a  long  threatening 
comes  at  last,  they  say.  Yes,  yes. 

Yes.  He  fingered  shreds  of  hair,  her  maidenhair,  her  mermaid's, 
into  the  bowl.  Chips.  Shreds.  Musing.  Mute. 

None  not  said  nothing.  Yes. 

Gaily  Miss  Douce  polished  a  tumbler,  trilling: 


THE    SIRENS  533 

— O,  Idolores,  queen  of  the  eastern  seas! 

— Was  Mr  Lidwell  in  today? 

In  came  Lenehan.  Round  him  peered  Lenehan.  Mr  Bloom 
reached  Essex  bridge.  Yes,  Mr  Bloom  crossed  bridge  of  Yessex.  To 
Martha  I  must  write.  Buy  paper.  Daly's.  Girl  there  civil.  Bloom.  Old 
Bloom.  Blue  Bloom  is  on  the  rye/ 

— He  was  in  at  lunchtime,  Miss  Douce  said. 

Lenehan  came  forward. 

— Was  Mr  Boylan  looking  for  me? 

He  asked.  She  answered: 

— Miss  Kennedy,  was  Mr  Boylan  in  while  I  was  upstairs? 

She  asked.  Miss  voice  of  Kennedy  answered,  a  second  teacup 
poised,  her  gaze  upon  a  page. 

— No.  He  was  not. 

Miss  gaze  of  Kennedy,  heard  not  seen,  read  on.  Lenehan  round 
the  sandwichbell  wound  his  round  body  round. 

— Peep!  Who's  in  the  corner? 

No  glance  of  Kennedy  rewarding  him  he  yet  made  overtures.  To 
mind  her  stops.  To  read  only  the  black  ones:  round  o  and  crooked 
ess. 

Jingle  jaunty  jingle. 

Girlgold  she  read  and  did  not  glance.  Take  no  notice.  She  took 
no  notice  while  he  read  by  rote  a  solfa  fable  for  her,  plappering 
flatly: 

— Ah  fox  met  ah  stork.  Said  thee  fox  too  thee  stork:  Will  you  put 
your  bill  down  inn  my  troath  and  pull  upp  ah  bone? 

He  droned  in  vain.  Miss  Douce  turned  to  her  tea  aside. 

He  sighed,  aside: 

— Ah  me!   Oh  my! 

He  greeted  Mr  Dedalus  and  got  a  nod. 

— Greetings  from  the  famous  son  of  a  famous  father. 

— Who  may  he  be?  Mr  Dedalus  asked. 

Lenehan  opened  most  genial  arms.  Who? 

— Who  may  he  be?  he  asked.  Can  you  ask?  Stephen,  the  youthful 
bard. 

Dry. 

Mr  Dedalus,  famous  father,  laid  by  his  dry  filled  pipe. 

— I  see,  he  said.  I  didn't  recognise  him  for  the  moment.  I  hear  he  is 
keeping  very  select  company.  Have  you  seen  him  lately? 

He  had. 


534  JAMES    JOYCE 

— I  quaffed  the  nectar  bowl  with  him  this  very  day,  said  Lenehan. 
In  Mooney's  en  ville  and  in  Mooney's  sur  mer.  He  had  received  the 
rhino  for  the  labour  of  his  muse. 

He  smiled  at  bronze's  teabathed  lips,  at  listening  lips  and  eyes. 

— The  elite  of  Erin  hung  upon  his  lips.  The  ponderous  pundit, 
Hugh  MacHugh,  Dublin's  most  brilliant  scribe  and  editor  and  that 
minstrel  boy  of  the  wild  wet  west  who  is  known  by  the  euphonious 
appellation  of  the  O'Madden  Burke. 

After  an  interval  Mr  Dedalus  raised  his  grog  and 

— That  must  have  been  highly  diverting,  said  he.  I  see. 

He  see.  He  drank.  With  faraway  mourning  mountain  eye.  Set 
down  his  glass. 

He  looked  towards  the  saloon  door. 

— I  see  you  have  moved  the  piano. 

— The  tuner  was  in  today,  Miss  Douce  replied,  tuning  it  for  the 
smoking  concert  and  I  never  heard  such  an  exquisite  player. 

— Is  that  a  fact? 

— Didn't  he,  Miss  Kennedy?  The  real  classical,  you  know.  And 
blind  too,  poor  fellow.  Not  twenty  I'm  sure  he  was. 

— Is  that  a  fact?  Mr  Dedalus  said. 

He  drank  and  strayed  away. 

— So  sad  to  look  at  his  face,  Miss  Douce  condoled. 

God's  curse  on  bitch's  bastard. 

Tink  to  her  pity  cried  a  diner's  bell.  To  the  door  of  the  dining- 
room  came  bald  Pat,  came  bothered  Pat,  came  Pat,  waiter  of  Or- 
mond.  Lager  for  diner.  Lager  without  alacrity  she  served. 

With  patience  Lenehan  waited  for  Boylan  with  impatience,  for 
jingle  jaunty  blazes  boy. 

Upholding  the  lid  he  ( who? )  gazed  in  the  coffin  ( coffin? )  at  the 
oblique  triple  (piano!)  wires.  He  pressed  (the  same  who  pressed 
indulgently  her  hand),  soft  pedalling  a  triple  of  keys  to  see  the 
thicknesses  of  felt  advancing,  to  hear  the  muffled  hammerfall  in 
action. 

Two  sheets  cream  vellum  paper  one  reserve  two  envelopes  when 
I  was  in  Wisdom  Hely's  wise  Bloom  in  Daly's  Henry  Flower  bought. 
Are  you  not  happy  in  your  home?  Flower  to  console  me  and  a  pin 
cuts  lo.  Means  something,  language  of  flow.  Was  it  a  daisy?  Inno- 
cence that  is.  Respectable  girl  meet  after  mass.  Tanks  awfully 
muchly.  Wise  Bloom  eyed  on  the  door  a  poster,  a  swaying  mermaid 


THE   SIRENS  535 

smoking  mid  nice  waves.  Smoke  mermaids,  coolest  whiff  of  all.  Hair 
streaming:  lovelorn.  For  some  man.  For  Raoul.  He  eyed  and  saw  afar 
on  Essex  bridge  a  gay  hat  riding  on  a  jauntingcar.  It  is.  Third  time. 
Coincidence. 

Jingling  on  supple  rubbers  it  jaunted  from  the  bridge  to 
Ormond  quay.  Follow.  Risk  it.  Go  quick.  At  four.  Near  now.  Out. 

— Twopence,  sir,  the  shopgirl  dared  to  say. 

— Aha  ...  I  was   forgetting  .  .  .  Excuse  .  .  . 

— And  four. 

At  four  she.  Winsomely  she  on  Bloohimwhom  smiled.  Bloo  smi 
qui  go.  Ternoon.  Think  you're  the  only  pebble  on  the  beach?  Does 
that  to  all.  For  men. 

In  drowsy  silence  gold'  bent  on  her  page. 

From  the  saloon  a  call  came,  long  in  dying.  That  was  a  tuning- 
fork  the  tuner  had  that  he  forgot  that  he  now  struck.  A  call  again. 
That  he  now  poised  that  it  now  throbbed.  You  hear?  It  throbbed, 
pure,  purer,  softly  and  softlier,  its  buzzing  prongs.  Longer  in  dying 
call. 

Pat  paid  for  diner's  popcorked  bottle:  and  over  tumbler  tray  and 
popcorked  bottle  ere  he  went  he  whispered,  bald  and  both- 
ered, with  Miss  Douce. 

— The  bright  stars  fade  .  .  . 

A  voiceless  song  sang  from  within,  singing: 

—  ...  the  morn  is  breaking. 

A  duodene  of  bird  notes  chirruped  bright  treble  answer  under 
sensitive  hands.  Brightly  the  keys,  all  twinkling,  linked,  all  harpsi- 
chording,  called  to  a  voice  to  sing  the  strain  of  dewy  morn,  of  youth, 
of  love's  leavetaking,  life's,  love's  morn. 

— The  dewdrops  pearl  .  .  . 

Lenehan's  lips  over  the  counter  lisped  a  low  whistle  of  decoy. 

— But  look  this  way,  he  said,  rose  of  Castille. 

Jingle  jaunted  by  the  curb  and  stopped. 

She  rose  and  closed  her  reading,  rose  of  Castille.  Fretted  forlorn, 
dreamily  rose. 

— Did  she  fall  or  was  she  pushed?  he  asked  her. 

She  answered,  slighting: 

— Ask  no  questions  and  you'll  hear  no  lies. 

Like  lady,  ladylike. 

Blazes  Boylan's  smart  tan  shoes  creaked  on  the  barfloor  where  he 


536  JAMES    JOYCE 

strode.  Yes,  gold  from  anear  by  bronze  from  afar.  Lenehan  heard 
and  knew  and  hailed  him: 

— See  the  conquering  hero  comes. 

Between  the  car  and  window,  warily  walking,  went  Bloom,  un- 
conquered  hero.  See  me  he  might.  The  seat  he  sat  on:  warm. 
Black  wary  hecat  walked  towards  Richie  Goulding's  legal  bag, 
lifted  aloft  saluting. 

— And  I  from  thee  .  .  . 

— I  heard  you  were  round,  said  Blazes  Boylan. 

He  touched  to  fair  Miss  Kennedy  a  rim  of  his  slanted  straw.  She 
smiled  on  him.  But  sister  bronze  outsmiled  her,  preening  for  him 
her  richer  hair,  a  bosom  and  a  rose. 

Boylan  bespoke  potions. 

— What's  your  cry?  Glass  of  bitter?  Glass  of  bitter,  please,  and  a 
sloegin  for  me.  Wire  in  yet? 

Not  yet.  At  four  he.  All  said  four. 

Cowley's  red  lugs  and  Adam's  apple  in  the  door  of  the  sheriffs 
office.  Avoid.  Goulding  a  chance.  What  is  he  doing  in  the  Ormond? 
Car  waiting.  Wait. 

Hello.  Where  off  to?  Something  to  eat?  I  too  was  just.  In  here. 
What,  Ormond?  Best  value  in  Dublin.  Is  that  so?  Diningroom.  Sit 
tight  there.  See,  not  be  seen.  I  think  I'll  join  you.  Come  on.  Richie 
led  on.  Bloom  followed  bag.  Dinner  fit  for  a  prince. 

Miss  Douce  reached  high  to  take  a  flagon,  stretching  her  satin 
arm,  her  bust,  that  all  but  burst,  so  high. 

— O!  O!  jerked  Lenehan,  gasping  at  each  stretch.  O! 

But  easily  she  seized  her  prey  and  led  it  low  in  triumph. 

— Why  don't  you  grow?  asked  Blazes  Boylan. 

Shebronze,  dealing  from  her  jar  thick  syrupy  liquor  for  his  lips, 
looked  as  it  flowed  (flower  in  his  coat:  who  gave  him?),  and 
syrupped  with  her  voice: 

— Fine  goods  in  small  parcels. 

That  is  to  say  she.  Neatly  she  poured  slowsyrupy  sloe. 

— Here's  fortune,  Blazes  said. 

He  pitched  a  broad  coin  down.  Coin  rang. 

— Hold  on,  said  Lenehan,  till  I  .  .  . 

— Fortune,  he  wished,  lifting  his  bubbled  ale. 

— Sceptre  will  win  in  a  canter,  he  said. 

— I  plunged  a  bit,  said  Boylan  winking  and  drinking.  Not  on  my 
own,  you  know.  Fancy  of  a  friend  of  mine. 


THE   SIRENS  537 

Lenehan  still  drank  and  grinned  at  his  tilted  ale  and  at  Miss 
Douce's  lips  that  all  but  hummed,  not  shut,  the  oceansong  her  lips 
had  trilled.  Idolores.  The  eastern  seas. 

Clock  whirred.  Miss  Kennedy  passed  their  way  (flower,  wonder 
who  gave ) ,  bearing  away  teatray.  Clock  clacked. 

Miss  Douce  took  Boylan's  coin,  struck  boldly  the  cashregister.  It 
clanged.  Clock  clacked.  Fair  one  of  Egypt  teased  and  sorted  in  the 
till  and  hummed  and  handed  coins  in  change.  Look  to  the  west.  A 
clack.  For  me. 

— What  time  is  that?  asked  Blazes  Boylan.  Four? 

O'clock. 

Lenehan,  small  eyes  ahunger  on  her  humming,  bust  ahumming, 
tugged  Blazes  Boylan's  elbowsleeve. 

— Let's  hear  the  time,  he  said. 

The  bag  of  Goulding,  Collis,  Ward  led  Bloom  by  ryebloom  flow- 
ered tables.  Aimless  he  chose  with  agitated  aim,  bald  Pat  attend- 
ing, a  table  near  the  door.  Be  near.  At  four.  Has  he  forgotten?  Per- 
haps a  trick.  Not  come:  whet  appetite.  I  couldn't  do.  Wait,  wait.  Pat, 
waiter,  waited. 

Sparkling  bronze  azure  eyed  Blazure's  skyblue  bow  and  eyes. 

— Go  on,  pressed  Lenehan.  There's  no-one.  He  never  heard. 

—  .  .  .  to  Floras  lips  did  hie. 

High,  a  high  note,  pealed  in  the  treble,  clear. 

Bronzedouce,  communing  with  her  rose  that  sank  and  rose,  sought 
Blazes  Boylan's  flower  and  eyes. 

— Please,  please. 

He  pleaded  over  returning  phrases  of  avowal. 

— I  could  not  leave  thee  .  .  . 

— Afterwits,  Miss  Douce  promised  coyly. 

— No,  now,  urged  Lenehan.  Sonnez  la  cloche!  O  do!  There's  no- 
one. 

She  looked.  Quick.  Miss  Kenn  out  of  earshot.  Sudden  bent.  Two 
kindling  faces  watched  her  bend. 

Quavering  the  chords  strayed  from  the  air,  found  it  again,  lost 
chord,  and  lost  and  found  it  faltering. 

— Go  on!  Do!  Sonnez! 

Bending,  she  nipped  a  peak  of  skirt  above  her  knee.  Delayed. 
Taunted  them  still,  bending,  suspending,  with  wilful  eyes. 

— Sonnez! 

Smack.  She  let  free  sudden  in  rebound  her  nipped  elastic  garter 


538  JAMES    JOYCE 

smackwarm    against   her    smackable    woman's    warmhosed    thigh. 

— La  cloche!  cried  gleeful  Lenehan.  Trained  by  owner.  No  saw- 
dust there. 

She  smilesmirked  supercilious  (wept!  Aren't  men?),  but,  light- 
ward  gliding,  mild  she  smiled  on  Boylan. 

— You're  the  essence  of  vulgarity,  she  in  gliding  said. 

Boylan,  eyed,  eyed.  Tossed  to  fat  lips  his  chalice,  drank  off  his  tiny 
chalice,  sucking  the  last  fat  violet  syrupy  drops.  His  spellbound 
eyes  went  after  her  gliding  head  as  it  went  down  the  bar  by  mirrors, 
gilded  arch  for  ginger  ale,  hock  and  claret  glasses  shimmering,  a 
spiky  shell,  where  it  concerted,  mirrored,  bronze  with  sunnier  bronze. 

Yes,  bronze  from  anearby. 

—  ...  Sweetheart,  goodbye! 

— I'm  off,  said  Boylan  with  impatience. 

He  slid  his  chalice  brisk  away,  grasped  his  change. 

— Wait  a  shake,  begged  Lenehan,  drinking  quickly.  I  wanted  to 
tell  you.  Tom  Rochford  .  .  . 

— Come  on  to  blazes,  said  Blazes  Boylan,  going. 

Lenehan  gulped  to  go. 

— Got  the  horn  or  what?  he  said.  Wait.  I'm  coming. 

He  followed  the  hasty  creaking  shoes  but  stood  by  nimbly  by  the 
threshold,  saluting  forms,  a  bulky  with  a  slender. 

— How  do  you  do,  Mr.  Dollard? 

— Eh?  How  do?  How  do?  Ben  Dollard's  vague  bass  answered, 
turning  an  instant  from  Father  Cowley's  woe.  He  won't  give  you 
any  trouble,  Bob.  Alf  Bergan  will  speak  to  the  long  fellow.  We'll 
put  a  barleystraw  in  that  Judas  Iscariot's  ear  this  time. 

Sighing,  Mr  Dedalus  came  through  the  saloon,  a  finger  soothing 
an  eyelid. 

— Hoho,  we  will,  Ben  Dollard  yodled  jollify.  Come  on,  Simon, 
give  us  a  ditty.  We  heard  the  piano. 

Bald  Pat,  bothered  waiter,  waited  for  drink  orders,  Power  for 
Richie.  And  Bloom?  Let  me  see.  Not  make  him  walk  twice.  His 
corns.  Four  now.  How  warm  this  black  is.  Course  nerves  a  bit.  Re- 
fracts (is  it?)  heat.  Let  me  see.  Cider.  Yes,  bottle  of  cider. 

— What's  that?  Mr  Dedalus  said.  I  was  only  vamping,  man. 

— Come  on,  come  on,  Ben  Dollard  called.  Begone,  dull  care. 
Come,  Bob. 

He  ambled  Dollard,  bulky  slops,  before  them  (hold  that  fellow 
with  the:  hold  him  now)  into  the  saloon.  He  plumped  him  Dol- 


THE    SIRENS  539 

lard  on  the  stool.  His  gouty  paws  plumped  chords.  Plumped  stopped 
abrupt. 

Bald  Pat  in  the  doorway  met  tealess  gold  returning.  Bothered 
he  wanted  Power  and  cider.  Bronze  by  the  window  watched, 
bronze  from  afar. 

Jingle  a  tinkle  jaunted. 

Bloom  heard  a  jing,  a  little  sound.  He's  off.  Light  sob  of  breath 
Bloom  sighed  on  the  silent  bluehued  flowers.  Jingling.  He's  gone. 
Jingle.  Hear. 

— Love  and  war,  Ben,  Mr  Dedalus  said.  God  be  with  old  times. 

Miss  Douce's  brave  eyes,  unregarded,  turned  from  the  crossblind, 
smitten  by  sunlight.  Gone.  Pensive  (who  knows?),  smitten  (the 
smiting  light),  she  lowered  the  dropblind  with  a  sliding  cord.  She 
drew  down  pensive  (why  did  he  go  so  quick  when  I?)  about  her 
bronze,  over  the  bar  where  bald  stood  by  sister  gold,  inexquisite  con- 
trast, contrast  inexquisite  nonexquisite,  slow  cool  dim  seagreen  slid- 
ing depth  of  shadow,  eau  de  Nil. 

— Poor  old  Goodwin  was  the  pianist  that  night,  Father  Cowley 
reminded  them.  There  was  a  slight  difference  of  opinion  between 
himself  and  the  Collard  grand. 

There  was. 

— A  symposium  all  his  own,  Mr  Dedalus  said.  The  devil 
wouldn't  stop  him.  He  was  a  crotchety  old  fellow  in  the  primary 
stage  of  drink. 

— God,  do  you  remember?  Ben  bulky  Dollard  said,  turning  from 
the  punished  keyboard.  And  by  Japers  I  had  no  wedding  garment. 

They  laughed  all  three.  He  had  no  wed.  All  trio  laughed.  No 
wedding  garment. 

— Our  friend  Bloom  turned  in  handy  that  night,  Mr  Dedalus  said. 
Where's  my  pipe  by  the  way? 

He  wandered  back  to  the  bar  to  the  lost  chord  pipe.  Bald  Pat  car- 
ried two  diners'  drinks,  Richie  and  Poldy.  And  Father  Cowley 
laughed  again. 

— I  saved  the  situation,  Ben,  I  think. 

— You  did,  averred  Ben  Dollard.  I  remember  those  tight  trousers 
too.  That  was  a  brilliant  idea,  Bob. 

Father  Cowley  blushed  to  his  brilliant  purply  lobes.  He  saved  the 
situa.  Tight  trou.  Brilliant  ide. 

— I  knew  he  was  on  the  rocks,  he  said.  The  wife  was  playing  the 
piano  in  the  coffee  palace  on  Saturdays  for  a  very  trifling  considera- 


540  JAMES    JOYCE 

tion  and  who  was  it  gave  me  the  wheeze  she  was  doing  the  other 
business?  Do  you  remember?  We  had  to  search  all  Holies  street  to 
find  them  till  the  chap  in  Keogh's  gave  us  the  number.  Remember? 

Ben  remembered,  his  broad  visage  wondering. 

— By  God  she  had  some  luxurious  opera  cloaks  and  things  there. 

Mr.  Dedalus  wandered  back,  pipe  in  hand. 

— Merrion  square  style.  Balldresses,  by  God,  and  court  dresses.  He 
wouldn't  take  any  money  either.  What?  Any  God's  quantity  of 
cocked  hats  and  boleros  and  trunkhose.  What? 

Ay,  ay,  Mr.  Dedalus  nodded.  Mrs.  Marion  Bloom  has  left  off 
clothes  of  all  descriptions. 

Jingle  jaunted  down  the  quays.  Blazes  sprawled  on  bounding 
tyres. 

Liver  and  bacon.  Steak  and  kidney  pie.  Right,  sir.  Right,  Pat. 

Mrs  Marion  met  him  pike  hoses.  Smell  of  burn  of  Paul  de  Kock. 
Nice  name  he. 

— What's  this  her  name  was?  A  buxom  lassy.  Marion  .  .  . 

— Tweedy. 

— Yes.  Is  she  alive? 

— And  kicking. 

— She  was  a  daughter  of  .  .  . 

— Daughter  of  the  regiment. 

— Yes,  begad.  I  remember  the  old  drummajor. 

Mr  Dedalus  struck,  whizzed,  lit,  puffed  savoury  puff  after. 

— Irish?  I  don't  know,  faith.  Is  she,  Simon? 

Puff  after  stiff,  a  puff,  strong,  savoury,  crackling. 

— Buccinator  muscle  is  .  .  .  What?  .  .  .  Bit  rusty  .  .  .  O,  she 
is  .  .  .  My  Irish  Molly,  O. 

He  puffed  a  pungent  plumy  blast. 

— From  the  rock  of  Gibraltar  ...  all  the  way. 

They  pined  in  depth  of  ocean  shadow,  gold  by  the  beerpull, 
bronze  by  maraschino,  thoughtful  all  two,  Mina  Kennedy,  4  Lis- 
more  terrace,  Drumcondra  with  Idolores,  a  queen,  Dolores,  silent. 

Pat  served  uncovered  dishes.  Leopold  cut  liverslices.  As  said  be- 
fore he  ate  with  relish  the  inner  organs,  nutty  gizzards,  fried  cods' 
roes  while  Richie  Goulding,  Collis,  Ward  ate  steak  and  kidney,  steak 
then  kidney,  bite  by  bite  of  pie  he  ate  Bloom  ate  they  ate. 

Bloom  with  Goulding,  married  in  silence,  ate.  Dinners  fit  for 
princes. 


THE   SIRENS  541 

By  Bachelor's  walk  jogjaunty  jingled  Blazes  Boylan,  bachelor,  in 
sun,  in  heat,  mare's  glossy  rump  atrot,  with  flick  of  whip,  on  bound- 
ing tyres:  sprawled,  warmseated,  Boylan  impatience,  ardentbold. 
Horn.  Have  you  the?  Horn.  Have  you  the?  Haw  haw  horn. 

Over  their  voices  Dollard  bassooned  attack,  booming  over  bom- 
barding chords: 

— When  love  absorbs  my  ardent  soul  .  .  . 

Roll  of  Bensoulbenjamin  rolled  to  the  quivery  loveshivery  roof- 
panes. 

— War!  War!  cried  Father  Cowley.  You're  the  warrior. 

— So  I  am,  Ben  Warrior  laughed.  I  was  thinking  of  your  landlord. 
Love  or  money. 

He  stopped.  He  wagged  huge  beard,  huge  face  over  his  blunder 
huge. 

— Sure,  you'd  burst  the  tympanum  of  her  ear,  man,  Mr  Dedalus 
said  through  smoke  aroma,  with  an  organ  like  yours. 

In  bearded  abundant  laughter  Dollard  shook  upon  the  keyboard. 
He  would. 

— Not  to  mention  another  membrane,  Father  Cowley  added. 
Half  time,  Ben.  Amoroso  ma  non  troppo.  Let  me  there. 

Miss  Kennedy  served  two  gentlemen  with  tankards  of  cool  stout. 
She  passed  a  remark.  It  was  indeed,  first  gentleman  said,  beau- 
tiful weather.  They  drank  cool  stout.  Did  she  know  where  the  lord 
lieutenant  was  going?  And  heard  steelhoofs  ringhoof  ring.  No,  she 
couldn't  say.  But  it  would  be  in  the  paper.  O,  she  needn't  trouble. 
No  trouble.  She  waved  about  her  outspread  Independent,  search- 
ing, the  lord  lieutenant,  her  pinnacles  of  hair  slowmoving,  lord 
lieuten.  Too  much  trouble,  first  gentleman  said.  O,  not  in  the  least. 
Way  he  looked  that.  Lord  lieutenant.  Gold  by  bronze  heard  iron 
steel. 

— my  ardent  soul 

I  care  not  for  or  the  morrow. 

In  liver  gravy  Bloom  mashed  mashed  potatoes.  Love  and  war 
someone  is.  Ben  Dollard's  famous.  Night  he  ran  round  to  us  to  bor- 
row a  dress  suit  for  that  concert.  Trousers  tight  as  a  drum  on  him. 
Musical  porkers.  Molly  did  laugh  when  he  went  out.  Threw  herself 
back  across  the  bed,  screaming,  kicking.  With  all  his  belongings  on 
show.  O,  saints  above,  I'm  drenched!  O,  the  women  in  the  front 
row!  O,  I  never  laughed  so  many!  Well,  of  course,  that's  what  gives 


542  JAMES    JOYCE 

him  the  base  barreltone.  For  instance  eunuchs.  Wonder  who's  play- 
ing. Nice  touch.  Must  be  Cowley.  Musical.  Knows  whatever  note 
you  play.  Bad  breath  he  has,  poor  chap.  Stopped. 

Miss  Douce,  engaging,  Lydia  Douce,  bowed  to  suave  solicitor, 
George  Lidwell,  gentleman,  entering.  Good  afternoon.  She  gave  her 
moist,  a  lady's,  hand  to  his  firm  clasp.  Afternoon.  Yes,  she  was  back. 
To  the  old  dingdong  again. 

— Your  friends  are  inside,  Mr  Lidwell. 

George  Lidwell,  suave,  solicited,  held  a  lydiahand. 

Bloom  ate  liv  as  said  before.  Clean  here  at  least.  That  chap  in  the 
Burton,  gummy  with  gristle.  No-one  here:  Goulding  and  I.  Clean 
tables,  flowers,  mitres  of  napkins.  Pat  to  and  fro,  bald  Pat.  Noth- 
ing to  do.  Best  value  in  Dub. 

Piano  again.  Cowley  it  is.  Way  he  sits  into  it,  like  one  together, 
mutual  understanding.  Tiresome  shapers  scraping  fiddles,  eye  on 
the  bowend,  sawing  the  'cello,  remind  you  of  toothache.  Her  high 
long  snore.  Night  we  were  in  the  box.  Trombone  under  blowing 
like  a  grampus,  between  the  acts,  other  brass  chap  unscrewing, 
emptying  spittle.  Conductor's  legs  too,  bagstrousers,  jiggedy  jiggedy. 
Do  right  to  hide  them. 

Jiggedy  jingle  jaunty  jaunty. 

Only  the  harp.  Lovely  gold  glowering  light.  Girl  touched  it.  Poop 
of  a  lovely.  Gravy's  rather  good  fit  for  a.  Golden  ship.  Erin.  The  harp 
that  once  or  twice.  Cool  hands.  Ben  Howth,  the  rhododendrons.  We 
are  their  harps.  I.  He.  Old.  Young. 

—Ah,  I  couldn't,  man,  Mr  Dedalus  said,  shy,  listless. 

Strongly. 

— Go  on,  blast  you,  Ben  Dollard  growled.  Get  it  out  in  bits. 

— M'appari,  Simon,  Father  Cowley  said. 

Down  stage  he  strode  some  paces,  grave,  tall  in  affliction,  his  long 
arms  outheld.  Hoarsely  the  apple  of  his  throat  hoarsed  softly.  Softly 
he  sang  to  a  dusty  seascape  there:  A  Last  Farewell.  A  headland,  a 
ship,  a  sail  upon  the  billows.  Farewell.  A  lovely  girl,  her  veil  awave 
upon  the  wind  upon  the  headland,  wind  around  her. 

Cowley  sang: 

— M'appari  tutt'amor: 

II  mio  sguardo  I'incontr  .  .  . 

She  waved,  unhearing  Cowley,  her  veil  to  one  departing,  dear 
one,  to  wind,  love,  speeding  sail,  return. 

— Go  on,  Simon. 


THE   SIRENS  543 

— Ah,  sure  my  dancing  days  are  done,  Ben  .  .  .  Well  .  .  . 

Mr  Dedalus  laid  his  pipe  to  rest  beside  the  tuningfork  and,  sit- 
ting, touched  the  obedient  keys. 

— No,  Simon,  Father  Cowley  turned.  Play  it  in  the  original.  One 
flat. 

The  keys,  obedient,  rose  higher,  told,  faltered,  confessed,  con- 
fused. 

Up  stage  strode  Father  Cowley. 

— Here,  Simon,  111  accompany  you,  he  said.  Get  up. 

By  Graham  Lemon's  pineapple  rock,  by  Elvery's  elephant  jingle 
jogged.  Steak,  kidney,  liver,  mashed  at  meat  fit  for  princes  sat  princes 
Bloom  and  Goulding.  Princes  at  meat  they  raised  and  drank  Power 
and  cider. 

Most  beautiful  tenor  air  ever  written,  Richie  said:  Sonnam- 
bula.  He  heard  Joe  Maas  sing  that  one  night.  Ah,  what  M'Guckin! 
Yes.  In  his  way.  Choirboy  style.  Maas  was  the  boy.  Massboy.  A  lyri- 
cal tenor  if  you  like.  Never  forget  it.  Never. 

Tenderly  Bloom  over  liverless  bacon  saw  the  tightened  features 
strain.  Backache  he.  Bright's  bright  eye.  Next  item  on  the  pro- 
gramme. Paying  the  piper.  Pills,  pounded  bread,  worth  a  guinea  a 
box.  Stave  it  off  awhile.  Sings  too:  Down  among  the  dead  men.  Ap- 
propriate. Kidney  pie.  Sweets  to  the.  Not  making  much  hand  of  it. 
Best  value  in.  Characteristic  of  him.  Power.  Particular  about  his 
drink.  Flaw  in  the  glass,  fresh  Vartry  water.  Fecking  matches 
from  counters  to  save.  Then  squander  a  sovereign  in  dribs  and 
drabs.  And  when  he's  wanted  not  a  farthing.  Screwed  refusing 
to  pay  his  fare.  Curious  types. 

Never  would  Richie  forget  that  night.  As  long  as  he  lived,  never. 
In  the  gods  of  the  old  Royal  with  little  Peake.  And  when  the  first 
note. 

Speech  paused  on  Richie's  lips. 

Coming  out  with  a  whopper  now.  Rhapsodies  about  damn  all. 
Believes  his  own  lies.  Does  really.  Wonderful  liar.  But  want  a  good 
memory. 

Which  air  is  that?  asked  Leopold  Bloom. 

— All  is  lost  now. 

Richie  cocked  his  lips  apout.  A  low  incipient  note  sweet  banshee 
murmured  all.  A  thrush.  A  throstle.  His  breath,  birdsweet,  good 
teeth  he's  proud  of,  fluted  with  plaintive  woe.  Is  lost.  Rich  sound. 
Two  notes  in  one  there.  Blackbird  I  heard  in  the  hawthorn  val- 


544  JAMES    JOYCE 

ley.  Taking  my  motives  he  twined  and  turned  them.  All  most  too 
new  call  is  lost  in  all.  Echo.  How  sweet  the  answer.  How  is  that 
done?  All  lost  now.  Mournful  he  whistled.  Fall,  surrender,  lost. 

Bloom  bent  leopold  ear,  turning  a  fringe  of  doyley  down  under 
the  vase.  Order.  Yes,  I  remember.  Lovely  air.  In  sleep  she  went  to 
him.  Innocence  in  the  moon.  Still  hold  her  back.  Brave,  don't  know 
their  danger.  Call  name.  Touch  water.  Jingle  jaunty.  Too  late.  She 
longed  to  go.  That's  why.  Woman.  As  easy  stop  the  sea.  Yes:  all  is 
lost. 

— A  beautiful  air,  said  Bloom  lost  Leopold.  I  know  it  well. 

Never  in  all  his  life  had  Richie  Goulding. 

He  knows  it  well  too.  Or  he  feels.  Still  harping  on  his  daughter. 
Wise  child  that  knows  her  father,  Dedalus  said.  Me? 

Bloom  askance  over  liverless  saw.  Face  of  the  all  is  lost.  Rollicking 
Richie  once.  Jokes  old  stale  now.  Wagging  his  ear.  Napkinring  in  his 
eye.  Now  begging  letters  he  sends  his  son  with.  Crosseyed  Walter  sir 
I  did  sir.  Wouldn't  trouble  only  I  was  expecting  some  money.  Apol- 
ogise. 

Piano  again.  Sounds  better  than  last  time  I  heard.  Tuned  prob- 
ably. Stopped  again. 

Dollard  and  Cowley  still  urged  the  lingering  singer  out  with  it. 

— With  it,  Simon. 

— It,  Simon. 

— Ladies  and  gentlemen,  I  am  most  deeply  obliged  by  your  kind 
solicitations. 

— It,  Simon. 

— I  have  no  money  but  if  you  will  lend  me  your  attention  I  shall 
endeavour  to  sing  to  you  of  a  heart  bowed  down. 

By  the  sandwichbell  in  screening  shadow,  Lydia  her  bronze  and 
rose,  a  lady's  grace,  gave  and  withheld:  as  in  cool  glaucous  eau  de 
Nil  Mina  to  tankards  two  her  pinnacles  of  gold. 

The  harping  chords  of  prelude  closed.  A  chord  longdrawn,  ex- 
pectant drew  a  voice  away. 

— When  first  I  saw  that  form  endearing. 

Richie  turned. 

— Si  Dedalus'  voice,  he  said. 

Braintipped,  cheek  touched  with  flame,  they  listened  feeling  that 
flow  endearing  flow  over  skin  limbs  human  heart  soul  spine.  Bloom 
signed  to  Pat,  bald  Pat  is  a  waiter  hard  of  hearing  to  set  ajar  the  door 


THE    SIRENS  545 

of  the  bar.  The  door  of  the  bar.  So.  That  will  do.  Pat,  waiter,  waited, 
waiting  to  hear,  for  he  was  hard  of  hear  by  the  door. 

— Sorrow  from  me  seemed  to  depart. 

Through  the  hush  of  air  a  voice  sang  to  them,  low,  not  rain,  not 
leaves  in  murmur,  like  no  voice  of  strings  of  reeds  or  whatdo- 
youcallthem  dulcimers,  touching  their  still  ears  with  words,  still 
hearts  of  their  each  his  remembered  lives.  Good,  good  to  hear: 
sorrow  from  them  each  seemed  to  from  both  depart  when  first  they 
heard.  When  first  they  saw,  lost  Richie,  Poldy,  mercy  of  beauty, 
heard  from  a  person  wouldn't  expect  it  in  the  least,  her  first  merci- 
ful lovesoft  oftloved  word. 

Love  that  is  singing:  love's  old  sweet  song.  Bloom  unwound  slowly 
the  elastic  band  of  his  packet.  Love's  old  sweet  sonnez  la  gold. 
Bloom  wound  a  skein  round  four  forkfingers,  stretched  it,  relaxed, 
and  wound  it  round  his  troubled  double,  fourfold,  in  octave,  gyved 
them  fast. 

— Full  of  hope  and  all  delighted  .  .  . 

Tenors  get  women  by  the  score.  Increase  their  flow.  Throw  flower 
at  his  feet  when  will  we  meet?  My  head  it  simply.  Jingle  all  de- 
lighted. He  can't  sing  for  tall  hats.  Your  head  it  simply  swurls.  Per- 
fumed for  him.  What  perfume  does  your  wife?  I  want  to  know. 
Jing.  Stop.  Knock.  Last  look  at  mirror  always  before  she  answers 
the  door.  The  hall.  There?  How  do  you?  I  do  well.  There?  What? 
Or?  Phial  of  cachous,  kissing  comfits,  in  her  satchel.  Yes?  Hands  felt 
for  the  opulent. 

Alas!  The  voice  rose,  sighing,  changed:  loud,  full,  shining,  proud. 

— But  alas,  'twas  idle  dreaming  .  .  . 

Glorious  tone  he  has  still.  Cork  air  softer  also  their  brogue.  Silly 
man!  Could  have  made  oceans  of  money.  Singing  wrong  words. 
Wore  out  his  wife:  now  sings.  But  hard  to  tell.  Only  the  two  them- 
selves. If  he  doesn't  break  down.  Keep  a  trot  for  the  avenue.  His 
hands  and  feet  sing  too.  Drink.  Nerves  overstrung.  Must  be  abste- 
mious to  sing.  Jenny  Lind  soup:  stock,  sage,  raw  eggs,  half  pint  of 
cream.  For  creamy  dreamy. 

Tenderness  it  welled:  slow,  swelling.  Full  it  throbbed.  That's  the 
chat.  Ha,  give!  Take!  Throb,  a  throb,  a  pulsing  proud  erect. 

Words?  Music?  No:  it's  what's  behind. 

Bloom  looped,  unlooped,  noded,  disnoded. 

Bloom.  Flood  of  warm  jimjam  lickitup  secretness  flowed  to  flow 


546  JAMES    JOYCE 

in  music  out,  in  desire,  dark  to  lick  flow,  invading.  Tipping  her  tep- 
ping  her  tapping  her  topping  her.  Tup.  Pores  to  dilate  dilating. 
Tup.  The  joy  the  feel  the  warm  the.  Tup.  To  pour  o'er  sluices 
pouring  gushes.  Flood,  gush,  flow,  joygush,  tupthrop.  Now!  Lan- 
guage of  love. 

—  ...  ray  of  hope  .  .  . 

Beaming.  Lydia  for  Lidwell  squeak  scarcely  hear  so  ladylike 
the  muse  unsqueaked  a  ray  of  hope. 

Martha  it  is.  Coincidence.  Just  going  to  write.  Lionel's  song.  Lovely 
name  you  have.  Can't  write.  Accept  my  little  pres.  Play  on  her 
heartstrings  pursestrings  too.  She's  a.  I  called  you  naughty  boy. 
Still  the  name:  Martha.  How  strange!  Today. 

The  voice  of  Lionel  returned,  weaker  but  unwearied.  It  sang 
again  to  Richie  Poldy  Lydia  Lidwell  also  sang  to  Pat  open  mouth 
ear  waiting,  to  wait.  How  first  he  saw  that  form  endearing,  how  sor- 
row seemed  to  part,  how  look,  form,  word  charmed  him  Gould  Lid- 
well, won  Pat  Bloom's  heart. 

Wish  I  could  see  his  face,  though.  Explain  better.  Why  the  barber 
in  Drago's  always  looked  my  face  when  I  spoke  his  face  in  the  glass. 
Still  hear  it  better  here  than  in  the  bar  though  farther. 

— Each  graceful  look  .  .  . 

First  night  when  first  I  saw  her  at  Mat  Dillon's  in  Terenure. 
Yellow,  black  lace  she  wore.  Musical  chairs.  We  two  the  last.  Fate. 
After  her.  Fate.  Round  and  round  slow.  Quick  round.  We  two.  All 
looked.  Halt.  Down  she  sat.  All  ousted  looked.  Lips  laughing.  Yel- 
low knees. 

— Charmed  my  eye  .  .  . 

Singing.  Waiting  she  sang.  I  turned  her  music.  Full  voice  of  per- 
fume of  what  perfume  does  your  lilactrees.  Bosom  I  saw,  both  full, 
throat  warbling.  First  I  saw.  She  thanked  me.  Why  did  she  me?  Fate. 
Spanishy  eyes.  Under  a  peartree  alone  patio  this  hour  in  old  Madrid 
one  side  in  shadow  Dolores  shedolores.  At  me.  Luring.  Ah,  alluring. 

— Martha!  Ah,  Martha! 

Quitting  all  languor  Lionel  cried  in  grief,  in  cry  of  passion  domi- 
nant to  love  to  return  with  deepening  yet  with  rising  chords  of 
harmony.  In  cry  of  lionel  loneliness  that  she  should  know,  must 
Martha  feel.  For  only  her  he  waited.  Where?  Here  there  try  there 
here  all  try  where.  Somewhere. 

— Co-me,  thou  lost  one! 
Co-me  thou  dear  one! 


THE    SIRENS  547 

Alone.  One  love.  One  hope.  One  comfort  me.  Martha,  chestnote, 
return. 

— Come! 

It  soared,  a  bird,  it  held  its  flight,  a  swift  pure  cry,  soar  silver  orb 
it  leaped  serene,  speeding,  sustained,  to  come,  don't  spin  it  out  too 
long  long  breath  he  breath  long  life,  soaring  high,  high  resplendent, 
aflame,  crowned,  high  in  the  effulgence  symbolistic,  high,  of  the 
ethereal  bosom,  high,  of  the  high  vast  irradiation  everywhere  all 
soaring  all  around  about  the  all,  the  endlessnessnessness  .  .  . 

—To  me! 

Siopold! 

Consumed. 

Come.  Well  sung.  All  clapped.  She  ought  to.  Come.  To  me,  to 
him,  to  her,  you  too,  me,  us. 

— Bravo!  Clapclap.  Goodman,  Simon.  Clappyclapclap.  Encore! 
Clapclipclap.  Sound  as  a  bell.  Bravo,  Simon!  Clapclopclap.  Encore, 
enclap,  said,  cried,  clapped  all,  Ben  Dollard,  Lydia  Douce,  George 
Lidwell,  Pat,  Mina,  two  gentlemen  with  two  tankards,  Cowley,  first 
gent  with  tank  and  bronze  Miss  Douce  and  gold  Miss  Mina. 

Blazes  Boylan's  smart  tan  shoes  creaked  on  the  barfloor,  said  be- 
fore. Jingle  by  monuments  of  sir  John  Gray,  Horatio  one-handled 
Nelson,  reverend  father  Theobald  Matthew,  jaunted  as  said  before 
just  now.  Atrot,  in  heat,  heatseated.  Cloche.  Sonnez  la.  Cloche. 
Sonnez  la.  Slower  the  mare  went  up  the  hill  by  the  Rotunda,  Rutland 
square.  Too  slow  for  Boylan,  Blazes  Boylan,  impatience  Boylan, 
joggled  the  mare. 

An  afterclang  of  Cowley's  chords  closed,  died  on  the  air  made 
richer. 

And  Richie  Goulding  drank  his  Power  and  Leopold  Bloom  his 
cider  drank,  Lidwell  his  Guinness,  second  gentleman  said  they 
would  partake  of  two  tankards  if  she  did  not  mind.  Miss  Kennedy 
smirked,  disserving,  coral  lips,  at  first,  at  second.  She  did  not  mind. 

— Seven  days  in  jail,  Ben  Dollard  said,  on  bread  and  water.  Then 
you'd  sing,  Simon,  like  a  garden  thrush. 

Lionel  Simon,  singer,  laughed.  Father  Bob  Cowley  played.  Mina 
Kennedy  served.  Second  gentleman  paid.  Tom  Kernan  strutted  in; 
Lydia,  admired,  admired.  But  Bloom  sang  dumb. 

Admiring. 

Richie,  admiring,  descanted  on  that  man's  glorious  voice.  He  re- 
membered one  night  long  ago.  Never  forget  that  night.   Si  sang 


548  JAMES    JOYCE 

'Twas  rank  and  fame:  in  Ned  Lambert's  'twas.  Good  God  he  never 
heard  in  all  his  life  a  note  like  that  he  never  did  then  false  one  we 
had  better  part  so  clear  so  God  he  never  heard  since  love  lives  not  a 
clinking  voice  ask  Lambert  he  can  tell  you  too. 

Goulding,  a  flush  struggling  in  his  pale,  told  Mr  Bloom,  face  of 
the  night,  Si  in  Ned  Lambert's,  Dedalus  house,  sang  'Twas  rank 
and  fame. 

He,  Mr  Bloom,  listened  while  he,  Richie  Goulding,  told  him,  Mr 
Bloom  of  the  night  he,  Richie,  heard  him,  Si  Dedalus,  sing  'Twos 
rank  and  fame  in  his,  Ned  Lambert's  house. 

Brothers-in-law:  relations.  We  never  speak  as  we  pass  by.  Rift  in 
the  lute  I  think.  Treats  him  with  scorn.  See.  He  admires  him  all  the 
more.  The  night  Si  sang.  The  human  voice,  two  tiny  silky  cords. 
Wonderful,  more  than   all  the  others. 

That  voice  was  a  lamentation.  Calmer  now.  It's  in  the  silence 
you  feel  you  hear.  Vibrations.  Now  silent  air. 

Bloom  ungyved  his  crisscrossed  hands  and  with  slack  fingers 
plucked  the  slender  catgut  thong.  He  drew  and  plucked.  It  buzzed, 
it  twanged.  While  Goulding  talked  of  Barraclough's  voice  produc- 
tion, while  Tom  Kernan,  harking  back  in  a  retrospective  sort  of  ar- 
rangement, talked  to  listening  Father  Cowley  who  played  a  volun- 
tary, who  nodded  as  he  played.  While  big  Ben  Dollard  talked  with 
Simon  Dedalus  lighting,  who  nodded  as  he  smoked,  who  smoked. 

Thou  lost  one.  All  songs  on  that  theme.  Yet  more  Bloom 
stretched  his  string.  Cruel  it  seems.  Let  people  get  fond  of  each 
other:  lure  them  on.  Then  tear  asunder.  Death.  Explos.  Knock  on 
the  head.  Outtohelloutofthat.  Human  life.  Dignam.  Ugh,  that 
rat's  tail  wriggling!  Five  bob  I  gave.  Corpus  paradisum.  Corncrake 
croaker:  belly  like  a  poisoned  pup.  Gone.  They  sing.  Forgotten.  I 
too.  And  one  day  she  with.  Leave  her:  get  tired.  Suffer  then.  Snivel. 
Big  Spanishy  eyes  goggling  at  nothing.  Her  wavyavyeavyheavyeavy- 
evyevy  hair  un  comb:  'd. 

Yet  too  much  happy  bores.  He  stretched  more,  more.  Are  you  not 
happy  in  your?  Twang.  It  snapped. 

Jingle  into  Dorset  street. 

Miss  Douce  withdrew  her  satiny  arm,  reproachful,  pleased. 

— Don't  make  half  so  free,  said  she,  till  we  are  better  acquainted. 

George  Lidwell  told  her  really  and  truly:  but  she  did  not  be- 
lieve. 


THE    SIRENS  549 

First  gentleman  told  Mina  that  was  so.  She  asked  him  was  that 
so.  And  second  tankard  told  her  so.  That  that  was  so. 

Miss  Douce,  Miss  Lydia,  did  not  believe:  Miss  Kennedy,  Mina, 
did  not  believe:  George  Lid  well,  no:  Miss  Dou  did  not:  the  first,  the 
first:  gent  with  the  tank:  believe,  no,  no:  did  not,  Miss  Kenn:  Lid- 
lydiawell:  the  tank. 

Better  write  it  here.  Quills  in  the  postoffice  chewed  and  twisted. 

Bald  Pat  at  a  sign  drew  nigh.  A  pen  and  ink.  He  went.  A  pad.  He 
went.  A  pad  to  blot.  He  heard,  deaf  Pat. 

— Yes,  Mr  Bloom  said,  teasing  the  curling  catgut  fine.  It  certainly 
is.  Few  lines  will  do.  My  present.  All  that  Italian  florid  music  is. 
Who  is  this  wrote?  Know  the  name  you  know  better.  Take  out  sheet 
notepaper,  envelope:  unconcerned.  It's  so  characteristic. 

— Grandest  number  in  the  whole  opera,  Goulding  said. 

— It  is,  Bloom  said. 

Numbers  it  is.  All  music  when  you  come  to  think.  Two  multi- 
plied by  two  divided  by  half  is  twice  one.  Vibrations:  chords  those 
are.  One  plus  two  plus  six  is  seven.  Do  anything  you  like  with  fig- 
ures juggling.  Always  find  out  this  equal  to  that,  symmetry  un- 
der a  cemetery  wall.  He  doesn't  see  my  mourning.  Callous:  all  for  his 
own  gut.  Musemathematics.  And  you  think  you're  listening  to  the 
ethereal.  But  suppose  you  said  it  like:  Martha,  seven  times  nine 
minus  x  is  thirty-five  thousand.  Fall  quite  flat.  It's  on  account  of  the 
sounds  it  is. 

Instance  he's  playing  now.  Improvising.  Might  be  what  you  like 
till  you  hear  the  words.  Want  to  listen  sharp.  Hard.  Begin  all  right: 
then  hear  chords  a  bit  off:  feel  lost  a  bit.  In  and  out  of  sacks  over 
barrels,  through  wirefences,  obstacle  race.  Time  makes  the  tune. 
Question  of  mood  you're  in.  Still  always  nice  to  hear.  Except  scales 
up  and  down,  girls  learning.  Two  together  nextdoor  neighbours. 
Ought  to  invent  dummy  pianos  for  that.  Blumenlied  I  bought  for 
her.  The  name.  Playing  it  slow,  a  girl,  night  I  came  home,  the  girl. 
Door  of  the  stables  near  Cecilia  street.  Milly  no  taste.  Queer  be- 
cause we  both  I  mean. 

Bald  deaf  Pat  brought  quite  flat  pad  ink.  Pat  set  with  ink  pen  quite 
flat  pad.  Pat  took  plate  dish  knife  fork.  Pat  went. 

It  was  the  only  language  Mr  Dedalus  said  to  Ben.  He  heard 
them  as  a  boy  in  Ringabella,  Crosshaven,  Ringabella,  singing  their 
barcaroles.    Queenstown   harbour   full    of   Italian   ships.   Walking, 


550  JAMES    JOYCE 

you  know,  Ben,  in  the  moonlight  with  those  earthquake  hats.  Blend- 
ing their  voices.  God,  such  music,  Ben.  Heard  as  a  boy.  Cross  Ringa- 
bella  haven  mooncarole, 

Sour  pipe  removed  he  held  a  shield  of  hand  beside  his  lips  that 
cooed  a  moonlight  nightcall,  clear  from  anear,  a  call  from  afar,  re- 
plying. 

Down  the  edge  of  his  Freeman  baton  ranged  Bloom's  your  other 
eye,  scanning  for  where  did  I  see  that.  Callan,  Coleman,  Dignam 
Patrick.  Heigho!  Heigho!  Fawcett.  Aha!  Just  I  was  looking  .  .  . 

Hope  he's  not  looking,  cute  as  a  rat.  He  held  unfurled  his  Free- 
man. Can't  see  now.  Remember  write  Greek  ees.  Bloom  dipped, 
Bloo  mur:  dear  sir.  Dear  Henry  wrote:  dear  Mady.  Got  your  lett 
and  flow.  Hell  did  I  put?  Some  pock  or  oth.  It  is  utterl  imposs.  Un- 
derline imposs.  To  write  today. 

Bore  this.  Bored  Bloom  tambourined  gently  with  I  am  just 
reflecting  fingers  on  flat  pad  Pat  brought. 

On.  Know  what  I  mean.  No,  change  that  ee.  Accept  my  poor  lit- 
tle pres  enclos.  Ask  her  no  answ.  Hold  on.  Five  Dig.  Two  about  here. 
Penny  the  gulls.  Elijah  is  com.  Seven  Davy  Byrne's.  Is  eight  about. 
Say  half  a  crown.  My  poor  little  pres:  p.  o.  two  and  six.  Write  me  a 
long.  Do  you  despise?  Jingle,  have  you  the?  So  excited.  Why  do  you 
call  me  naught?  You  naughty  too?  O,  Mairy  lost  the  pin  of  her.  Bye 
for  today.  Yes,  yes,  will  tell  you.  Want  to.  To  keep  it  up.  Call  me 
that  other.  Other  world  she  wrote.  My  patience  are  exhausted.  To 
keep  it  up.  You  must  believe.  Believe.  The  tank.  It.  Is.  True. 

Folly  am  I  writing?  Husbands  don't.  That's  marriage  does,  their 
wives.  Because  I'm  away  from.  Suppose.  But  how?  She  must.  Keep 
young.  If  she  found  out.  Card  in  my  high  grade  ha.  No,  not  tell  all. 
Useless  pain.  If  they  don't  see.  Women.  Sauce  for  the  gander. 

A  hackney  car,  number  three  hundred  and  twenty-four,  driver 
Barton  James  of  number  one  Harmony  avenue,  Donnybrook,  on 
which  sat  a  fare,  a  young  gentleman,  stylishly  dressed  in  an  in- 
digoblue  serge  suit  made  by  George  Robert  Mesias,  tailor  and  cutter, 
of  number  five  Eden  quay,  and  wearing  a  straw  hat  very  dressy, 
bought  of  John  Plasto  of  number  one  Great  Brunswick  street,  hatter. 
Eh?  This  is  the  jingle  that  joggled  and  jingled.  By  Dlugacz'  pork- 
shop  bright  tubes  of  Agendath  trotted  a  gallant-buttocked  mare. 

— Answering  an  ad?  keen  Richie's  eyes  asked  Bloom. 

— Yes,  Mr  Bloom  said.  Town  traveller.  Nothing  doing,  I  ex- 
pect. 


THE   SIRENS  551 

Bloom  mur:  best  references.  But  Henry  wrote:  it  will  excite  me. 
You  know  now.  In  haste.  Henry.  Greek  ee.  Better  add  postcript. 
What  is  he  playing  now?  Improvising  intermezzo.  P.  S.  The  rum  turn 
turn.  How  will  you  pun?  You  punish  me?  Crooked  skirt  swinging, 
whack  by.  Tell  me  I  want  to.  Know.  O.  Course  if  I  didn't  I 
wouldn't  ask.  La  la  la  ree.  Trails  off  there  sad  in  minor.  Why  minor 
sad?  Sign  H.  They  like  sad  tail  at  end.  P.  P.  S.  La  la  la  ree.  I  feel  so 
sad  today.  La  ree.  So  lonely.  Dee. 

He  blotted  quick  on  pad  of  Pat.  Envel.  Address.  Just  copy  out 
of  paper.  Murmured:  Messrs  Callan,  Coleman  and  Co,  limited. 
Henry  wrote: 

Miss  Martha  Clifford 

c/o  P.O. 
Dolphin's  barn  lane 
Dublin. 

Blot  over  the  other  so  he  can't  read.  Right.  Idea  prize  titbit.  Some- 
thing detective  read  off  blottingpad.  Payment  at  the  rate  of 
guinea  per  col.  Matcham  often  thinks  the  laughing  witch.  Poor  Mrs 
Purefoy.  U.  p.:  up. 

Too  poetical  that  about  the  sad.  Music  did  that.  Music  hath 
charms  Shakespeare  said.  Quotations  every  day  in  the  year.  To  be  or 
not  to  be.  Wisdom  while  you  wait. 

In  Gerard's  rosery  of  Fetter  lane  he  walks,  greyedauburn.  One 
life  is  all.  One  body.  Do.  But  do. 

Done  anyhow.  Postal  order  stamp.  Postoffice  lower  down.  Walk 
now.  Enough.  Barney  Kiernan's  I  promised  to  meet  them.  Dislike 
that  job.  House  of  mourning.  Walk.  Pat!  Doesn't  hear.  Deaf  beetle 
he  is. 

Car  near  there  now.  Talk.  Talk.  Pat!  Doesn't.  Settling  those  nap- 
kins. Lot  of  ground  he  must  cover  in  the  day.  Paint  face  behind  on 
him  then  he'd  be  two.  Wish  they'd  sing  more.  Keep  my  mind  off. 

Bald  Pat  who  is  bothered  mitred  the  napkins.  Pat  is  a  waiter 
hard  of  his  hearing.  Pat  is  a  waiter  who  waits  while  you  wait.  Hee 
hee  hee  hee.  He  waits  while  you  wait.  Hee  hee.  A  waiter  is  he. 
Hee  hee  hee  hee.  He  waits  while  you  wait.  While  you  wait  if  you 
wait  he  will  wait  while  you  wait.  Hee  hee  hee  hee.  Hoh.  Wait  while 
you  wait. 

Douce  now.  Douce  Lydia.  Bronze  and  rose. 


552  JAMES    JOYCE 

She  had  a  gorgeous,  simply  gorgeous,  time.  And  look  at  the  lovely 
shell  she  brought. 

To  the  end  of  the  bar  to  him  she  bore  lightly  the  spiked  and 
winding  seahorn  that  he,  George  Lidwell,  solicitor,  might  hear. 

— Listen!  she  bade  him. 

Under  Tom  Kernan's  ginhot  words  the  accompanist  wove 
music  slow.  Authentic  fact.  How  Walter  Bapty  lost  his  voice.  Well, 
sir,  the  husband  took  him  by  the  throat.  Scoundrel,  said  he.  You'll 
sing  no  more  lovesongs.  He  did,  sir  Tom.  Bob  Cowley  wove.  Tenors 
get  worn.  Cowley  lay  back. 

Ah,  now  he  heard,  she  holding  it  to  his  ear.  Hear!  He  heard. 
Wonderful.  She  held  it  to  her  own  and  through  the  sifted  light  pale 
gold  in  contrast  glided.  To  hear. 

Tap. 

Bloom  through  the  bardoor  saw  a  shell  held  at  their  ears.  He 
heard  more  faintly  that  that  they  heard,  each  for  herself  alone,  then 
each  for  other,  hearing  the  plash  of  waves,  loudly,  a  silent  roar. 

Bronze  by  a  weary  gold,  anear,  afar,  they  listened. 

Her  ear  too  is  a  shell,  the  peeping  lobe  there.  Been  to  the  seaside. 
Lovely  seaside  girls.  Skin  tanned  raw.  Should  have  put  on  coldcream 
first  make  it  brown.  Buttered  toast.  O  and  that  lotion  mustn't  forget. 
Fever  near  her  mouth.  Your  head  it  simply.  Hair  braided  over: 
shell  with  seaweed.  Why  do  they  hide  their  ears  with  seaweed  hair? 
And  Turks  their  mouth,  why?  Her  eyes  over  the  sheet,  a  yashmak. 
Find  the  way  in.  A  cave.  No  admittance  except  on  business. 

The  sea  they  think  they  hear.  Singing.  A  roar.  The  blood  is  it. 
Souse  in  the  ear  sometimes.  Well,  it's  a  sea.  Corpuscle  islands. 

Wonderful  really.  So  distinct.  Again.  George  Lidwell  held  its 
murmur,  hearing:  then  laid  it  by,  gently. 

— What  are  the  wild  waves  saying?  he  asked  her,  smiled. 

Charming,  seasmiling  and  unanswering  Lydia  on  Lidwell  smiled. 

Tap. 

By  Larry  O'Rourke's,  by  Larry,  bold  Larry  O',  Boylan  swayed  and 
Boylan  turned. 

From  the  forsaken  shell  Miss  Mina  glided  to  her  tankard  wait- 
ing. No,  she  was  not  so  lonely  archly  Miss  Douce's  head  let  Mr  Lid- 
well know.  Walks  in  the  moonlight  by  the  sea.  No,  not  alone.  With 
whom?  She  nobly  answered:  with  a  gentleman  friend. 

Bob  Cowley's  twinkling  fingers  in  the  treble  played  again.  The 
landlord  has  the  prior.  A  little  time.  Long  John.  Big  Ben.  Lightly 


THE   SIRENS  553 

he  played  a  light  bright  tinkling  measure  for  tripping  ladies, 
arch  and  smiling,  and  for  their  gallants,  gentlemen  friends.  One: 
one,  one,  one:  two,  one,  three,  four. 

Sea,  wind,  leaves,  thunder,  waters,  cows  lowing,  the  cattle  mar- 
ket, cocks,  hens  don't  crow,  snakes  hissss.  There's  music  everywhere. 
Ruttledge's  door:  ee  creaking.  No,  that's  noise.  Minuet  of  Don 
Giovanni  he's  playing  now.  Court  dresses  of  all  descriptions  in  cas- 
tle chambers  dancing.  Misery.  Peasants  outside.  Green  starving 
faces  eating  dockleaves.  Nice  that  is.  Look:  look,  look,  look,  look, 
look:  you  look  at  us. 

That's  joyful  I  can  feel.  Never  have  written  it.  Why?  My  joy  is 
other  joy.  But  both  are  joys.  Yes,  joy  it  must  be.  Mere  fact  of  music 
shows  you  are.  Often  thought  she  was  in  the  dumps  till  she  began  to 
lilt.  Then  know. 

M'Coy  valise.  My  wife  and  your  wife.  Squealing  cat.  Like  tearing 
silk.  When  she  talks  like  the  clapper  of  a  bellows.  They  can't  man- 
age men's  intervals.  Gap  in  their  voices  too.  Fill  me.  I'm  warm,  dark, 
open.  Molly  in  quis  est  homo:  Mercadante.  My  ear  against  the  wall 
to  hear.  Want  a  woman  who  can  deliver  the  goods. 

Jog  jig  jogged  stopped.  Dandy  tan  shoe  of  dandy  Boylan  socks 
skyblue  clocks  came  light  to  earth. 

O,  look  we  are  so!  Chamber  music.  Could  make  a  kind  of  pun  on 
that.  It  is  a  kind  of  music  I  often  thought  when  she.  Acoustics  that 
is.  Tinkling.  Empty  vessels  make  most  noise.  Because  the  acoustics, 
the  resonance  changes  according  as  the  weight  of  the  water  is  equal 
to  the  law  of  falling  water.  Like  those  rhapsodies  of  Liszt's,  Hun- 
garian, gipsyeyed.  Pearls.  Drops.  Rain.  Diddle  iddle  addle  addle 
oodle  oodle.  Hiss.  Now.  Maybe  now.  Before. 

One  rapped  on  a  door,  one  tapped  with  a  knock,  did  he  knock 
Paul  de  Kock,  with  a  loud  proud  knocker,  with  a  cock  carracarra- 
carra  cock.  Cockcock. 

Tap. 

— Qui  sdegno,  Ben,  said  Father  Cowley. 

— No,  Ben,  Tom  Kernan  interfered,  The  Croppy  Boy.  Our  na- 
tive Doric. 

— Ay  do,  Ben,  Mr  Dedalus  said.  Good  men  and  true. 

— Do,  do,  they  begged  in  one. 

I'll  go.  Here,  Pat,  return.  Come.  He  came,  he  came,  he  did  not 
stay.  To  me.  How  much? 

— What  key?  Six  sharps? 


554  JAMES    JOYCE 

— F  sharp  major,  Ben  Dollard  said. 

Bob  Cowley's  outstretched  talons  gripped  the  black  deep- 
sounding  chords. 

Must  go  prince  Bloom  told  Richie  prince.  No,  Richie  said.  Yes, 
must.  Got  money  somewhere.  He's  on  for  a  razzle  backache  spree. 
Much?  He  seehears  lipspeech.  One  and  nine.  Penny  for  yourself. 
Here.  Give  him  twopence  tip.  Deaf,  bothered.  But  perhaps  he  has 
wife  and  family  waiting,  waiting  Patty  come  home.  Hee  hee  hee 
hee.  Deaf  wait  while  they  wait. 

But  wait.  But  hear.  Chordsdark.  Lugugugubrious.  Low.  In  a 
cave  of  the  dark  middle  earth.  Embedded  ore.  Lumpmusic. 

The  voice  of  dark  age,  of  unlove,  earth's  fatigue  made  grave  ap- 
proach, and  painful,  come  from  afar,  from  hoary  mountains,  called 
on  good  men  and  true.  The  priest  he  sought,  with  him  would  he 
speak  a  word. 

Tap. 

Ben  Dollard's  voice  barreltone.  Doing  his  level  best  to  say  it. 
Croak  of  vast  manless  moonless  womoonless  marsh.  Other  come- 
down. Big  ships'  chandler's  business  he  did  once.  Remember:  rosiny 
ropes,  ships'  lanterns.  Failed  to  the  tune  of  ten  thousand  pounds. 
Now  in  the  Iveagh  home.  Cubicle  number  so  and  so.  Number  one 
Bass  did  that  for  him. 

The  priest's  at  home.  A  false  priest's  servant  bade  him  welcome. 
Step  in.  The  holy  father.  Curlycues  of  chords. 

Ruin  them.  Wreck  their  lives.  Then  build  them  cubicles  to  end 
their  days  in.  Hushaby.  Lullaby.  Die,  dog.  Little  dog,  die. 

The  voice  of  warning,  solemn  warning,  told  them  the  youth  had 
entered  a  lonely  hall,  told  them  how  solemn  fell  his  footstep  there, 
told  them  the  gloomy  chamber,  the  vested  priest  sitting  to  shrive. 

Decent  soul.  Bit  addled  now.  Thinks  he'll  win  in  Answers  poets' 
picture  puzzle.  We  hand  you  crisp  five  pound  note.  Bird  sitting 
hatching  in  a  nest.  Lay  of  the  last  minstrel  he  thought  it  was.  See 
blank  tee  what  domestic  animal?  Tee  dash  ar  most  courageous  mar- 
iner. Good  voice  he  has  still.  No  eunuch  yet  with  all  his  belongings. 

Listen.  Bloom  listened.  Richie  Goulding  listened.  And  by  the  door 
deaf  Pat,  bald  Pat,  tipped  Pat,  listened. 

The  chords  harped  slower. 

The  voice  of  penance  and  of  grief  came  slow,  embellished  tremu- 
lous. Ben's  contrite  beard  confessed:  in  nomine  Domini,  in  God's 


THE    SIRENS  555 

name.  He  knelt.  He  beat  his  hand  upon  his  breast,  confessing:  mea 
culpa. 

Latin  again.  That  holds  them  like  birdlime.  Priest  with  the  com- 
munion corpus  for  those  women.  Chap  in  the  mortuary,  coffin  or 
coffey,  corpusnomine.  Wonder  where  that  rat  is  by  now.  Scrape. 

Tap. 

They  listened:  tankards  and  Miss  Kennedy,  George  Lidwell  eye- 
lid well  expressive,  fullbusted  satin,  Kernan,  Si. 

The  sighing  voice  of  sorrow  sang.  His  sins.  Since  easter  he  had 
cursed  three  times.  You  bitch's  bast.  And  once  at  masstime  he  had 
gone  to  play.  Once  by  the  churchyard  he  had  passed  and  for  his 
mother's  rest  he  had  not  prayed.  A  boy.  A  croppy  boy. 

Bronze,  listening  by  the  beerpull,  gazed  far  away.  Soulfully. 
Doesn't  half  know  I'm.  Molly  great  dab  at  seeing  anyone  looking. 

Bronze  gazed  far  sideways.  Mirror  there.  Is  that  best  side  of 
her  face?  They  always  know.  Knock  at  the  door.  Last  tip  to  titivate. 

Cockcarracarra. 

What  do  they  think  when  they  hear  music?  Way  to  catch  rattle- 
snakes. Night  Michael  Gunn  gave  us  the  box.  Tuning  up.  Shah  of 
Persia  liked  that  best.  Remind  him  of  home  sweet  home.  Wiped  his 
nose  in  curtain  too.  Custom  his  country  perhaps.  That's  music  too. 
Not  as  bad  as  it  sounds.  Tootling.  Brasses  braying  asses  through 
uptrunks.  Doublebasses,  helpless,  gashes  in  their  sides.  Woodwinds 
mooing  cows.  Semigrand  open  crocodile  music  hath  jaws.  Wood- 
wind like  Goodwin's  name. 

She  looked  fine.  Her  crocus  dress  she  wore,  lowcut,  belongings 
on  show.  Clove  her  breath  was  always  in  theatre  when  she  bent  to 
ask  a  question.  Told  her  what  Spinoza  says  in  that  book  of  poor 
papa's.  Hypnotised,  listening.  Eyes  like  that.  She  bent.  Chap  in 
dresscircle,  staring  down  into  her  with  his  operaglass  for  all  he  was 
worth.  Beauty  of  music  you  must  hear  twice.  Nature  woman  half  a 
look.  God  made  the  country  man  the  tune.  Met  him  pike  hoses.  Phi- 
losophy. O  rocks! 

All  gone.  All  fallen.  At  the  siege  of  Ross  his  father,  at  Gorey 
all  his  brothers  fell.  To  Wexford,  we  are  the  boys  of  Wexford,  he 
would.  Last  of  his  name  and  race. 

I  too,  last  my  race.  Milly  young  student.  Well,  my  fault  perhaps. 
No  son.  Rudy.  Too  late  now.  Or  if  not?  If  not?  If  still? 

He  bore  no  hate. 


556  JAMES    JOYCE 

Hate.  Love.  Those  are  names.  Rudy.  Soon  I  am  old. 

Big  Ben  his  voice  unfolded.  Great  voice,  Richie  Goulding  said, 
a  flush  struggling  in  his  pale,  to  Bloom,  soon  old  but  when  was 
young. 

Ireland  comes  now.  My  country  above  the  king.  She  listens.  Who 
fears  to  speak  of  nineteen  four?  Time  to  be  shoving.  Looked 
enough. 

— Bless  me,  father,  Dollard  the  croppy  cried.  Bless  me  and  let 
me  go. 

Tap. 

Bloom  looked,  unblessed  to  go.  Got  up  to  kill:  on  eighteen  bob  a 
week.  Fellows  shell  out  the  dibs.  Want  to  keep  your  weathereye 
open.  Those  girls,  those  lovely.  By  the  sad  sea  waves.  Chorusgirl's 
romance.  Letters  read  out  for  breach  of  promise.  From  Chicka- 
biddy's own  Mumpsypum.  Laughter  in  court.  Henry.  I  never  signed 
it.  The  lovely  name  you. 

Low  sank  the  music,  air  and  words.  Then  hastened.  The  false 
priest  rustling  soldier  from  his  cassock.  A  yeoman  captain.  They 
know  it  all  by  heart.  The  thrill  they  itch  for.  Yeoman  cap. 

Tap.  Tap. 

Thrilled,  she  listened,  bending  in  sympathy  to  hear. 

Blank  face.  Virgin  should  say:  or  fingered  only.  Write  something 
on  it:  page.  If  not  what  becomes  of  them?  Decline,  despair.  Keeps 
them  young.  Even  admire  themselves.  See.  Play  on  her.  Lip  blow. 
Body  of  white  woman,  a  flute  alive.  Blow  gentle.  Loud.  Three  holes 
all  women.  Goddess  I  didn't  see.  They  want  it:  not  too  much  polite. 
That's  why  he  gets  them.  Gold  in  your  pocket,  brass  in  your  face. 
With  look  to  look:  songs  without  words.  Molly  that  hurdygurdy  boy. 
She  knew  he  meant  the  monkey  was  sick.  Or  because  so  like  the 
Spanish.  Understand  animals  too  that  way.  Solomon  did.  Gift  of 
nature. 

Ventriloquise.  My  lips  closed.  Think  in  my  stom.  What? 

Will?  You?  I.  Want.  You.  To. 

With  hoarse  rude  fury  the  yeoman  cursed.  Swelling  in  apoplectic 
bitch's  bastard.  A  good  thought,  boy,  to  come.  One  hour's  your 
time  to  live,  your  last. 

Tap.  Tap. 

Thrill  now.  Pity  they  feel.  To  wipe  away  a  tear  for  martyrs.  For 
all  things  dying,  want  do,  dying  to,  die.  For  that  all  things  born. 
Poor  Mrs  Purefoy.  Hope  she's  over.  Because  their  wombs. 


THE    SIRENS  557 

A  liquid  of  womb  of  woman  eyeball  gazed  under  a  fence  of 
lashes,  calmly,  hearing.  See  real  beauty  of  the  eye  when  she  not 
speaks.  On  yonder  river.  At  each  slow  satiny  heaving  bosom's 
wave  (her  heaving  embon)  red  rose  rose  slowly,  sank  red  rose. 
Heartbeats  her  breath:  breath  that  is  life.  And  all  the  tiny  tiny  fern- 
foils  trembled  of  maidenhair. 

But  look.  The  bright  stars  fade.  O  rose!  Castille.  The  morn.  Ha. 
Lidwell.  For  him  then  not  for.  Infatuated.  I  like  that?  See  her 
from  here  though.  Popped  corks,  splashes  of  beerfroth,  stacks 
of  empties. 

On  the  smooth  jutting  beerpull  laid  Lydia  hand  lightly,  plumply, 
leave  it  to  my  hands.  All  lost  in  pity  for  croppy.  Fro,  to:  to, 
fro:  over  the  polished  knob  (she  knows  his  eyes,  my  eyes,  her 
eyes)  her  thumb  and  finger  passed  in  pity:  passed,  repassed  and, 
gently  touching,  then  slid  so  smoothly,  slowly  down,  a  cool 
firm  white   enamel   baton   protruding  through   their   sliding   ring. 

With  a  cock  with  a  carra. 

Tap.  Tap.  Tap. 

I  hold  this  house.  Amen.  He  gnashed  in  fury.  Traitors  swing. 

The  chords  consented.  Very  sad  thing.  But  had  to  be. 

Get  out  before  the  end.  Thanks,  that  was  heavenly.  Where's  my 
hat.  Pass  by  her.  Can  leave  that  Freeman.  Letter  I  have.  Suppose 
she  were  the?  No.  Walk,  walk,  walk.  Like  Cashel  Boylo  Connoro 
Coylo  Tisdall  Maurice  Tisntdall  Farrell.  Waaaaaaalk. 

Well,  I  must  be.  Are  you  off?  Yrfmstbyes.  Blmstup.  O'er  ryehigh 
blue.  Bloom  stood  up.  Ow.  Soap  feeling  rather  sticky  behind.  Must 
have  sweated:  music.  That  lotion,  remember.  Well,  so  long.  High 
grade.  Card  inside,  yes. 

By  deaf  Pat  in  the  doorway,  straining  ear,  Bloom  passed. 

At  Geneva  barrack  that  young  man  died.  At  Passage  was  his  body 
laid.  Dolor!  O,  he  dolores!  The  voice  of  the  mournful  chanter  called 
to  dolorous  prayer. 

By  rose,  by  satiny  bosom,  by  the  fondling  hand,  by  slops,  by  emp- 
ties, by  popped  corks,  greeting  in  going,  past  eyes  and  maidenhair, 
bronze  and  faint  gold  in  deepseashadow,  went  Bloom,  soft  Bloom, 
I  feel  so  lonely  Bloom. 

Tap.  Tap.  Tap. 

Pray  for  him,  prayed  the  bass  of  Dollard.  You  who  hear  in  peace. 
Breathe  a  prayer,  drop  a  tear,  good  men,  good  people.  He  was  the 
croppy  boy. 


558  JAMES    JOYCE 

Scaring  eavesdropping  boots  croppy  bootsboy  Bloom  in  the 
Ormond  hallway  heard  growls  and  roars  of  bravo,  fat  back- 
slapping,  their  boots  all  treading,  boots  not  the  boots  the  boy.  Gen- 
eral chorus  off  for  a  swill  to  wash  it  down.  Glad  I  avoided. 

— Come  on,  Ben,  Simon  Dedalus  said.  By  God,  you're  as  good  as 
ever  you  were. 

— Better,  said  Tomgin  Kernan.  Most  trenchant  rendition  of  that 
ballad,  upon  my  soul  and  honour  it  is. 

— Lablache,  said  Father  Cowley. 

Ben  Dollard  bulkily  cachuchad  towards  the  bar,  mightily  praise- 
fed  and  all  big  roseate,  on  heavyfooted  feet,  his  gouty  fingers  nak- 
kering  castagnettes  in  the  air. 

Big  Benaben  Dollard.  Big  Benben.  Big  Benben. 

Rrr. 

And  deepmoved  all,  Simon  trumping  compassion  from  foghorn 
nose,  all  laughing,  they  brought  him  forth,  Ben  Dollard,  in  right 
good  cheer. 

— You're  looking  rubicund,  George  Lidwell  said. 

Miss  Douce  composed  her  rose  to  wait. 

— Ben  machree,  said  Mr  Dedalus,  clapping  Ben's  fat  back  shoul- 
derblade.  Fit  as  a  fiddle,  only  he  has  a  lot  of  adipose  tissue  con- 
cealed about  his  person. 

Rrrrrrsss. 

— Fat  of  death,  Simon,  Ben  Dollard  growled. 

Richie  rift  in  the  lute  alone  sat:  Goulding,  Collis,  Ward.  Uncer- 
tainly he  waited.  Unpaid  Pat  too. 

Tap.  Tap.  Tap.  Tap. 

Miss  Mina  Kennedy  brought  near  her  lips  to  ear  of  tankard  one. 

— Mr  Dollard,  they  murmured  low. 

— Dollard,  murmured  tankard. 

Tank  one  believed:  Miss  Kenn  when  she:  that  doll  he  was:  she 
doll:  the  tank. 

He  murmured  that  he  knew  the  name.  The  name  was  familiar  to 
him,  that  is  to  say.  That  was  to  say  he  had  heard  the  name  of  Dol- 
lard, was  it?  Dollard,  yes. 

Yes,  her  lips  said  more  loudly,  Mr  Dollard.  He  sang  that  song 
lovely,  murmured  Mina.  And  The  last  rose  of  summer  was  a  lovely 
song.  Mina  loved  that  song.  Tankard  loved  the  song  that  Mina. 

'Tis  the  last  rose  of  summer  dollard  left  Bloom  felt  wind  wound 
round  inside. 


THE   SIRENS  559 

Gassy  thing  that  cider:  binding  too.  Wait.  Postoffice  near  Reuben 
J's  one  and  eightpence  too.  Get  shut  of  it.  Dodge  round  by  Greek 
street.  Wish  I  hadn't  promised  to  meet.  Freer  in  air.  Music.  Gets  on 
your  nerves.  Beerpull.  Her  hand  that  rocks  the  cradle  rules  the. 
Ben  Howth.  That  rules  the  world. 

Far.  Far.  Far.  Far. 

Tap.  Tap.  Tap.  Tap. 

Up  the  quay  went  Lionelleopold,  naughty  Henry  with  letter  for 
Mady,  with  sweets  of  sin  with  frillies  for  Raoul  with  met  him  pike 
hoses  went  Poldy  on. 

Tap  blind  walked  tapping  by  the  tap  the  curbstone  tapping,  tap 
by  tap.  Cowley,  he  stuns  himself  with  it;  kind  of  drunkenness.  Better 
give  way  only  half  way  the  way  of  a  man  with  a  maid.  Instance  en- 
thusiasts. All  ears.  Not  lose  a  demisemiquaver.  Eyes  shut.  Head  nod- 
ding in  time.  Dotty.  You  daren't  budge.  Thinking  strictly  prohib- 
ited. Always  talking  shop.  Fiddlefaddle  about  notes. 

All  a  kind  of  attempt  to  talk.  Unpleasant  when  it  stops  because 
you  never  know  exac.  Organ  in  Gardiner  street.  Old  Glynn  fifty 
quid  a  year.  Queer  up  there  in  the  cockloft  alone  with  stops  and 
locks  and  keys.  Seated  all  day  at  the  organ.  Maunder  on  for  hours, 
talking  to  himself  or  the  other  fellow  blowing  the  bellows.  Growl 
angry,  then  shriek  cursing  (want  to  have  wadding  or  something  in 
his  no  don't  she  cried ) ,  then  all  of  a  soft  sudden  wee  little  wee  little 
pippy  wind. 

Pwee!  A  wee  little  wind  piped  eeee.  In  Bloom's  little  wee. 

— Was  he?  Mr  Dedalus  said,  returning,  with  fetched  pipe.  I  was 
with  him  this  morning  at  poor  little  Paddy  Dignam's  .  .  . 

— Ay,  the  Lord  have  mercy  on  him. 

— By  the  by  there's  a  tuningfork  in  there  on  the  ... 

Tap.  Tap.  Tap.  Tap. 

— The  wife  has  a  fine  voice.  Or  had.  What?  Lidwell  asked. 

— O,  that  must  be  the  tuner,  Lydia  said  to  Simonlionel  first  I  saw, 
forgot  it  when  he  was  here. 

Blind  he  was  she  told  George  Lidwell  second  I  saw.  And  played 
so  exquisitely,  treat  to  hear.  Exquisite  contrast:  bronzelid  minagold. 

— Shout!  Ben  Dollard  shouted,  pouring.  Sing  out! 

— 'lido!  cried  Father  Cowley. 

Rrrrrr. 

I  feel  I  want  .  .  . 

Tap.  Tap.  Tap.  Tap.  Tap. 


560  JAMES    JOYCE 

— Very,  Mr  Dedalus  said,  staring  hard  at  a  headless  sardine. 

Under  the  sandwichbell  lay  on  a  bier  of  bread  one  last,  one  lonely, 
last  sardine  of  summer.  Bloom  alone. 

— Very,  he  stared.  The  lower  register,  for  choice. 

Tap.  Tap.  Tap.  Tap.  Tap.  Tap.  Tap.  Tap. 

Bloom  went  by  Barry's.  Wish  I  could.  Wait.  That  wonderworker 
if  I  had.  Twenty-four  solicitors  in  that  one  house.  Litigation.  Love 
one  another.  Piles  of  parchment.  Messrs  Pick  and  Pocket  have 
power  of  attorney.  Goulding,  Collis,  Ward. 

But  for  example  the  chap  that  wallops  the  big  drum.  His  voca- 
tion: Micky  Rooney's  band.  Wonder  how  it  first  struck  him.  Sitting 
at  home  after  pig's  cheek  and  cabbage  nursing  it  in  the  armchair. 
Rehearsing  his  band  part.  Pom.  Pompedy.  Jolly  for  the  wife.  Asses' 
skins.  Welt  them  through  life,  then  wallop  after  death.  Pom. 
Wallop.  Seems  to  be  what  you  call  yashmak  or  I  mean  kismet.  Fate. 

Tap.  Tap.  A  stripling,  blind,  with  a  tapping  cane,  came  taptap- 
tapping  by  Daly's  window  where  a  mermaid,  hair  all  streaming 
(but  he  couldn't  see),  blew  whiffs  of  a  mermaid  (blind  couldn't), 
mermaid  coolest  whiff  of  all. 

Instruments.  A  blade  of  grass,  shell  of  her  hands,  then  blow.  Even 
comb  and  tissuepaper  you  can  knock  a  tune  out  of.  Molly  in  her 
shift  in  Lombard  street  west,  hair  down.  I  suppose  each  kind  of 
trade  made  its  own,  don't  you  see?  Hunter  with  a  horn.  Haw.  Have 
you  the?  Cloche.  Sonnez  la!  Shepherd  his  pipe.  Policeman  a  whis- 
tle. Locks  and  keys!  Sweep!  Four  o'clock's  all's  well!  Sleep!  All  is 
lost  now.  Drum?  Pompedy.  Wait,  I  know.  Towncrier,  bumbailiff. 
Long  John.  Waken  the  dead.  Pom.  Dignam.  Poor  little  nomine- 
domine.  Pom.  It  is  music,  I  mean  of  course  it's  all  pom  pom  pom 
very  much  what  they  call  da  capo.  Still  you  can  hear.  As  we 
march  we  march  along,  march  along.  Pom. 

I  must  really.  Fff.  Now  if  I  did  that  at  a  banquet.  Just  a  question 
of  custom  shah  of  Persia.  Breathe  a  prayer,  drop  a  tear.  All  the  same 
he  must  have  been  a  bit  of  a  natural  not  to  see  it  was  a  yeoman  cap. 
Muffled  up.  Wonder  who  was  that  chap  at  the  grave  in  the  brown 
mackin.  O,  the  whore  of  the  lane! 

A  frowsy  whore  with  black  straw  sailor  hat  askew  came  glazily  in 
the  day  along  the  quay  towards  Mr  Bloom.  When  first  he  saw  that 
form  endearing.  Yes,  it  is.  I  feel  so  lonely.  Wet  night  in  the  lane. 
Horn.  Who  had  the?  Heehaw.  Shesaw.  Off  her  beat  here.  What  is 


THE   SIRENS  561 

she?  Hope  she.  Psst!  Any  chance  of  your  wash.  Knew  Molly.  Had 
me  decked.  Stout  lady  does  be  with  you  in  the  brown  costume.  Put 
you  off  your  stroke.  That  appointment  we  made.  Knowing  we'd 
never,  well  hardly  ever.  Too  dear  too  near  to  home  sweet  home. 
Sees  me,  does  she?  Looks  a  fright  in  the  day.  Face  like  dip.  Damn 
her!  O,  well,  she  has  to  live  like  the  rest.  Look  in  here. 

In  Lionel  Marks's  antique  saleshop  window  haughty  Henry  Lio- 
nel Leopold  dear  Henry  Flower  earnestly  Mr  Leopold  Bloom  en- 
visaged candlestick  melodeon  oozing  maggoty  blowbags.  Bargain:  six 
bob.  Might  learn  to  play.  Cheap.  Let  her  pass.  Course  everything  is 
dear  if  you  don't  want  it.  That's  what  good  salesman  is.  Make  you 
buy  what  he  wants  to  sell.  Chap  sold  me  the  Swedish  razor  he  shaved 
me  with.  Wanted  to  charge  me  for  the  edge  he  gave  it.  She's  passing 
now.  Six  bob. 

Must  be  the  cider  or  perhaps  the  burgund. 

Near  bronze  from  anear  near  gold  from  afar  they  chinked  their 
clinking  glasses  all,  brighteyed  and  gallant,  before  bronze  Lydia's 
tempting  last  rose  of  summer,  rose  of  Castille.  First  Lid,  De,  Cow, 
Ker,  Doll,  a  fifth:  Lidwell,  Si  Dedalus,  Bob  Cowley,  Kernan  and 
Big  Ben  Dollard. 

Tap.  A  youth  entered  a  lonely  Ormond  hall. 

Bloom  viewed  a  gallant  pictured  hero  in  Lionel  Marks's  window. 
Robert  Emmet's  last  words.  Seven  last  words.  Of  Meyerbeer  that  is. 

— True  men  like  you  men. 

— Ay,  ay,  Ben. 

— Will  lift  your  glass  with  us. 

They  lifted. 

Tschink.  Tschunk. 

Tip.  An  unseeing  stripling  stood  in  the  door.  He  saw  not 
bronze.  He  saw  not  gold.  Nor  Ben  nor  Bob  nor  Tom  nor  Si  nor 
George  nor  tanks  nor  Richie  nor  Pat.  Hee  hee  hee  hee.  He  did  not 
see. 

Seabloom,  greaseabloom  viewed  last  words.  Softly.  When  my 
country  takes  her  place  among.1 

Prrprr. 

Must  be  the  bur. 

Fff.  Oo.  Rrpr. 

Nations  of  the  earth.  No-one  behind.  She's  passed.  Then  and  not 

1  This  and  the  following  phrases  in  italics  are  the  concluding  sentences  of  Robert  Emmet's 
speech  from  the  dock.  • 


562  JAMES    JOYCE 

till  then.  Tram.  Kran,  kran,  kran.  Good  oppor.  Coming  Krandlkran- 
kran.  I'm  sure  it's  the  burgund.  Yes.  One,  two.  Let  my  epitaph  be. 
Karaaaaaaa.  Written.  I  have. 

PprrpffrrppffT 

Done. 


NOTE:  In  the  above  episode  from  Ulysses,  given  in  its  entirety,  the 
two  barmaids  correspond  to  the  Sirens  whose  singing  tempted 
Ulysses.  Appropriately,  Joyce  has  chosen  to  illustrate  in  this  episode 
the  art  of  music:  the  technic  of  the  episode  as  a  whole  is  that  of  a 
fuga  per  canonem;  musical  terms  and  the  names  of  musical  instru- 
ments abound  in  the  text;  a  great  number  of  musical  devices  are 
imitated  by  the  repetition  and  distortion  of  words  and  sentences. 
A  brief  outline  of  the  events  that  occur  in  this  episode  follows: 
Mr.  Bloom  (Ulysses)  dines  in  the  Ormond  Hotel  while  Blazes  Boylan 
has  a  drink  in  the  bar  and  departs  on  a  jaunting-car  to  an  assignation 
with  Mrs.  Bloom  (Penelope).  Bloom  knows  about  the  appointment 
and  cannot  keep  his  mind  off  it  for  long.  Meanwhile  in  the  music 
room  of  the  hotel,  Simon  Dedalus  sings  the  aria  M'appari  from 
Flotow's  Martha  and  Ben  Dollard  follows  with  a  pathetic  patriotic 
ballad,  The  Croppy  Boy.  Mr.  Bloom  after  dinner  writes  a  'lonely 
hearts'  letter  to  Martha  Clifford,  signing  himself  'Henry  Flower.' 
Upon  leaving  the  hotel  to  post  his  letter,  he  avoids  two  minor  em- 
barrassments, one  social,  the  other  intestinal,  with  the  resourceful- 
ness of  a  true  Ulysses. 


FLANN    O    BRIEN 

Mad  Sweeny  versus  Jem  Casey1 

•Synopsis,  being  a  summary  of  what  has  gone  before,  FOR  THE 
BENEFIT  OF  NEW  READERS:  Dermot  Trellis,  an  eccentric  au- 
thor, conceives  the  project  of  writing  a  salutary  book  on  the  con- 
sequences which  follow  wrong-doing  and  creates  for  the  purpose 

The  Pooka  Fergus  MacPhellimey,  a  species  of  human  Irish 
devil  endowed  with  magical  powers.  He  then  creates 

John  Furriskey,  a  depraved  character,  whose  task  is  to  attack 
women  and  behave  at  all  times  in  an  indecent  manner.  By  magic  he 
is  instructed  by  Trellis  to  go  one  night  to  Donnybrook  where  he 
will  by  arrangement  meet  and  betray 

Peggy,  a  domestic  servant.  He  meets  her  and  is  much  surprised 
when  she  confides  in  him  that  Trellis  has  fallen  asleep  and  that 
her  virtue  has  already  been  assailed  by  an  elderly  man  subse- 
quently to  be  identified  as 

Finn  MacCool,  a  legendary  character  hired  by  Trellis  on  ac- 
count of  the  former's  venerable  appearance  and  experience,  to  act 
as  the  girl's  father  and  chastise  her  for  her  transgressions  against 
the  moral  law;  and  that  her  virtue  has  also  been  assailed  by 

Paul  Shanahan,  another  man  hired  by  Trellis  for  performing 
various  small  and  unimportant  parts  in  the  story,  also  for  running 
messages,  &c.  &c.  Peggy  and  Furriskey  then  have  a  long  discussion 
on  the  roadside  in  which  she  explains  to  him  that  Trellis's  powers 
are  suspended  when  he  falls  asleep  and  that  Finn  and  Shanahan 
were  taking  advantage  of  that  fact  when  they  came  to  see  her  be- 
cause they  would  not  dare  to  defy  him  when  he  is  awake.  Furriskey 
then  inquires  whether  she  yielded  to  them  and  she  replies  that  in- 
deed she  did  not.  Furriskey  then  praises  her  and  they  discover  after 
a  short  time  that  they  have  fallen  in  love  with  each  other  at  first 
sight.  They  arrange  to  lead  virtuous  lives,  to  simulate  the  immoral 
actions,  thoughts  and  words  which  Trellis  demands  of  them  on 
pain  of  the  severest  penalties.  They  also  arrange  that  the  first  of 
them  who  shall  be  free  shall  wait  for  the  other  with  a  view  to  mar- 
riage at  the  earliest  opportunity.  Meanwhile  Trellis,  in  order  to 
show  how  an  evil  man  can  debase  the  highest  and  the  lowest  in 
the  same  story,  creates  a  very  beautiful  and  refined   girl  called 

1  From  At  Swim-Two-Birds,  London,   1939.  First  published  in  U.  S.,   1951. 

563 


564  FLANN    OBRIEN 

Sheila  Lamont,  whose  brother, 

Antony  Lamont  he  has  already  hired  so  that  there  will  be  some- 
body to  demand  satisfaction  off  John  Furriskey  for  betraying  her — 
all  this  being  provided  for  in  the  plot.  Trellis  creates  Miss  Lamont 
in  his  own  bedroom  and  he  is  so  blinded  by  her  beauty  (which  is 
naturally  the  type  of  beauty  nearest  to  his  heart ) ,  that  he  so  far  for- 
gets himself  as  to  assault  her  himself.  Furriskey  in  the  meantime  re- 
turns to  the  Red  Swan  Hotel  where  Trellis  lives  and  compels 
all  those  working  for  him  to  live  also.  He  (Furriskey)  is  determined 
to  pretend  that  he  faithfully  carried  out  the  terrible  mission  he  was 
sent  on.  Now  read  on. 


Further  extract  from  Manuscript.  Oratio  recta:  With  a  key  in 
his  soft  nervous  hand,  he  opened  the  hall  door  and  removed  his 
shoes  with  two  swift  spells  of  crouching  on  the  one  leg.  He  crept  up 
the  stairs  with  the  noiseless  cat-tread  of  his  good-quality  woollen 
socks.  The  door  of  Trellis  was  dark  and  sleeping  as  he  passed  up  the 
stairs  to  his  room.  There  was  a  crack  of  light  at  Shanahan's  door  and 
he  placed  his  shoes  quietly  on  the  floor  and  turned  the  handle. 

The  hard  Furriskey,  said  Shanahan. 

Here  was  Shanahan  stretched  at  the  fire,  with  Lamont  on  his  left 
and  the  old  greybeard  seated  beyond  dimly  on  the  bed  with  his 
stick  between  his  knees  and  his  old  eyes  staring  far  into  the  red  fire 
like  a  man  whose  thought  was  in  a  distant  part  of  the  old  world 
or  maybe  in  another  world  altogether. 

By  God  you  weren't  long,  said  Lamont. 

Shut  the  door,  said  Shanahan,  but  see  you're  in  the  room  before 
you  do  so.  Shut  the  door  and  treat  yourself  to  a  chair,  Mr.  F.  You're 
quick  off  the  mark  all  right.  Move  up  there,  Mr.  L. 

It's  not  what  you  call  a  full-time  occupation,  said  Furriskey  in  a 
weary  way.  It's  not  what  you  call  a  life  sentence. 

It  is  not,  said  Lamont.  You're  right  there. 

Now  don't  worry,  said  Shanahan  in  a  pitying  manner,  there's 
plenty  more  coming.  We'll  keep  you  occupied  now,  don't  you  worry, 
won't  we,  Mr.  Lamont? 

We'll  see  that  he  gets  his  bellyful,  said  Lamont. 

You're  decent  fellows  the  pair  of  ye,  said  Furriskey. 


MAD    SWEENY   VERSUS    JEM   CASEY  565 

He  sat  on  a  stool  and  extended  his  fan  to  the  fire,  the  fan  of  his 
ten  fingers. 

You  can  get  too  much  of  them  the  same  women,  he  said. 

Is  that  a  fact,  said  Shanahan  in  unbelief.  Well  I  never  heard  that 
said  before.  Come  here,  Mr.  Furriskey,  did  you.  .  .  . 

O  it  was  all  right,  I'll  tell  you  sometime,  said  Furriskey. 

Didn't  I  tell  you  it  was  all  right?  Didn't  I? 

You  did,  said  Furriskey. 

He  took  a  sole  cigarette  from  a  small  box. 

I'll  tell  you  the  whole  story  sometime  but  not  now,  he  said.  He 
nodded  towards  the  bed. 

Is  your  man  asleep  or  what? 

Maybe  he  is,  said  Shanahan,  but  by  God  it  didn't  sound  like  it 
five  minutes  ago.  Mr.  Storybook  was  wide  awake. 

He  was  wide  awake,  said  Lamont. 

Five  minutes  ago  he  was  giving  out  a  yarn  the  length  of  my  arm, 
said  Shanahan.  Right  enough  he  is  a  terrible  man  for  talk.  Aren't 
you  now?  He'd  talk  the  lot  of  us  into  the  one  grave  if  you  gave  him 
his  head,  don't  ask  me  how  I  know,  look  at  my  grey  hairs.  Isn't  that 
a  fact,  Mr.  Lamont? 

For  a  man  of  his  years,  said  Lamont  slowly  and  authoritatively,  he 
can  do  the  talking.  By  God  he  can  do  the  talking.  He  has  seen  more 
of  the  world  than  you  or  me,  of  course,  that's  the  secret  of  it. 

That's  true,  said  Furriskey,  a  happy  fire-glow  running  about  his 
body.  He  carefully  directed  the  smoke  of  his  cigarette  towards  the 
flames  and  up  the  chimney.  Yes,  he's  an  old  man,  of  course. 

His  stories  are  not  the  worst  though.  I'll  say  that,  said  Lamont, 
there's  always  a  head  and  a  tail  on  his  yarns,  a  beginning  and  an 
end,  give  him  his  due. 

O   I   don't  know,   said   Furriskey. 

0  he  can  talk,  he  can  talk,  I  agree  with  you  there,  said  Shanahan, 
credit  where  credit  is  due.  But  you'd  want  what  you'd  call  a  grain  of 
solo  with  more  than  one  of  them  if  I  know  anything. 

A  pinch  of  salt?  said  Lamont. 
A  grain  of  salo,  Mr.  L. 

1  don't  doubt  it,  said  Furriskey. 

Relate,  said  hidden  Conan,  the  tale  of  the  Feasting  of  Dun  na 
nGedh. 

Finn  in  his  mind  was  nestling  with  his  people. 

I  mean  to  say,  said  Lamont,  whether  a  yarn  is  tall  or  small  I 


566  FLANN    OBRIEN 

like  to  hear  it  well  told.  I  like  to  meet  a  man  that  can  take  in  hand 
to  tell  a  story  and  not  make  a  balls  of  it  while  he's  at  it.  I  like  to  know 
where  I  am,  do  you  know.  Everything  has  a  beginning  and  an  end. 
It  is  true,  said  Finn,  that  I  will  not. 

0  that's  right  too,  said  Shanahan. 

Relate  then,  said  Conan,  the  account  of  the  madness  of  King 
Sweeny  and  he  on  a  madman's  flight  through  the  length  of  Erin. 

That's  a  grand  fire,  said  Furriskey,  and  if  a  man  has  that,  he  can't 
want  a  lot  more.  A  fire,  a  bed,  and  a  roof  over  his  head,  that's  all. 
With  a  bite  to  eat,  of  course. 

It's  all  very  fine  for  you  to  talk,  now,  said  Lamont,  you  had  some- 
thing for  your  tea  to-night  that  the  rest  of  us  hadn't,  eh,  Mr.  Shana- 
han. Know  what  I  mean? 

Keep  the  fun  clean,  said  Shanahan. 

1  beg,  Mr.  Chairman,  said  Furriskey,  to  be  associated  with  them 
sentiments.  What's  clean,  keep  it  clean. 

There  was  a  concerted  snigger,  harmonious,  scored  for  three 
voices. 

I  will  relate,  said  Finn. 

We're  off  again,  said  Furriskey. 

The  first  matter  that  I  will  occupy  with  honey-words  and  melodi- 
ous recital,  said  Finn,  is  the  reason  and  the  first  cause  for  Sweeny's 
frenzy. 

Draw  in  your  chairs,  boys,  said  Shanahan,  we're  right  for  the 
night.  We're  away  on  a  hack. 

Pray  proceed,  Sir,  said  Lamont. 

Now  Sweeny  was  King  of  Dal  Araidhe  and  a  man  that  was  easily 
moved  to  the  tides  of  anger.1  Near  his  house  was  the  cave  of  a  saint 
called  Ronan — a  shield  against  evil  was  this  gentle  generous 
friendly  active  man,  who  was  out  in  the  matin-hours  taping  out  the 
wall-steads  of  a  new  sun-bright  church  and  ringing  his  bell  in  the 
morning. 

Good  for  telling,  said  Conan. 

Now  when  Sweeny  heard  the  clack  of  the  clergyman's  bell,  his 
brain  and  his  spleen  and  his  gut  were  exercised  by  turn  and  to- 
gether with  the  fever  of  a  flaming  anger.  He  made  a  great  run  out 
of  the  house  without  a  cloth-stitch  to  the  sheltering  of  his  naked 
nudity,  for  he  had  run  out  of  his  cloak  when  his  wife  Eorann  held  it 


1  The  story  of  Mad  Sweeny,  which  Finn   proceeds  to  relate,   is   a  virtual   translation  of  a 
12th  century  text,  Buile  Shuibni. 


MAD   SWEENY   VERSUS    JEM   CASEY  567 

for  restraint  and  deterrence,  and  he  did  not  rest  till  he  had  snatched 
the  beauteous  light-lined  psalter  from  the  cleric  and  put  it  in  the 
lake,  at  the  bottom;  after  that  he  took  the  hard  grip  of  the  cleric's 
hand  and  ran  with  a  wind-swift  stride  to  the  lake  without  a  halting 
or  a  letting  go  of  the  hand  because  he  had  a  mind  to  place  the  cleric 
by  the  side  of  his  psalter  in  the  lake,  on  the  bottom,  to  speak  pre- 
cisely. But,  evil  destiny,  he  was  deterred  by  the  big  storm-voiced 
hoarse  shout,  the  shout  of  a  scullion  calling  him  to  the  profession 
of  arms  at  the  battle  of  Magh  Rath.  Sweeny  then  left  the  cleric  sad 
and  sorrowful  over  the  godless  battery  of  the  king  and  lamenting 
his  psalter.  This,  however,  an  otter  from  the  murk  of  the  lake  re- 
turned to  him  unharmed,  its  lines  and  its  letters  unblemished.  He 
then  returned  with  joyous  piety  to  his  devotions  and  put  a  maledic- 
tion on  Sweeny  by  the  uttering  of  a  lay  of  eleven  melodious 
stanzas. 

Thereafter  he  went  himself  with  his  acolytes  to  the  plain  of 
Magh  Rath  for  the  weaving  of  concord  and  peace  between  the 
hosts  and  was  himself  taken  as  a  holy  pledge,  the  person  of  the 
cleric,  that  fighting  should  cease  at  sun-down  and  that  no  man 
should  be  slain  until  fighting  would  be  again  permitted,  the  person 
of  the  cleric  a  holy  hostage  and  exchange  between  the  hosts.  But, 
evil  destiny,  Sweeny  was  used  to  violating  the  guarantee  by  the 
slaughter  of  a  man  every  morning  before  the  hour  when  fighting 
was  permitted.  On  the  morning  of  a  certain  day,  Ronan  and  his 
eight  psalmists  were  walking  in  the  field  and  sprinkling  holy  water 
on  the  hosts  against  the  incidence  of  hurt  or  evil  when  they  sprinkled 
the  head  of  Sweeny  with  the  rest.  Sweeny  in  anger  took  a  cast  and 
reddened  his  spear  in  the  white  side  of  a  psalmist  and  broke  Ronan's 
bell  whereupon  the  cleric  uttered  this  melodious  lay: 

My  curse  on  Sweeny! 

His  guilt  against  me  is  immense, 

he  pierced  with  his  long  swift  javelin 

my  holy  bell. 

The  holy  bell  that  thou  hast  outraged 
will  banish  thee  to  branches, 
it  will  put  thee  on  a  par  with  fowls — 
the  saint-bell  of  saints  with  sainty-saints. 

Just  as  it  went  prestissimo 

the  spear-shaft  skyward, 

you  too,  Sweeny,  go  madly  mad-gone 

skyward. 


568  FLANN    OBRIEN 

Eorann  of  Conn  tried  to  hold  him 
by  a  hold  of  his  smock 
and  though  I  bless  her  therefore, 
my  curse  on  Sweeny. 

Thereafter  when  the  hosts  clashed  and  bellowed  like  stag-herds 
and  gave  three  audible  world-wide  shouts  till  Sweeny  heard  them 
and  their  hollow  reverberations  in  the  sky-vault,  he  was  beleaguered 
by  an  anger  and  a  darkness,  and  fury  and  fits  and  frenzy  and  fright- 
fraught  fear,  and  he  was  filled  with  a  restless  tottering  unquiet  and 
with  a  disgust  for  the  places  that  he  knew  and  with  a  desire  to  be 
where  he  never  was,  so  that  he  was  palsied  of  hand  and  foot  and 
eye-mad  and  heart-quick  and  went  from  the  curse  of  Ronan  bird- 
quick  in  craze  and  madness  from  the  battle.  For  the  nimble  lightness 
of  his  tread  in  flight  he  did  not  shake  dewdrops  from  the  grass- 
stalks  and  staying  not  for  bog  or  thicket  or  marsh  or  hollow  or 
thick-sheltering  wood  in  Erin  for  that  day,  he  travelled  till  he 
reached  Ros  Bearaigh  in  Glenn  Earcain  where  he  went  into  the 
yew-tree  that  was  in  the  glen. 

In  a  later  hour  his  kin  came  to  halt  beneath  the  tree  for  a  spell 
of  discourse  and  melodious  talk  about  Sweeny  and  no  tidings  con- 
cerning him  either  in  the  east  or  the  west;  and  Sweeny  in  the  yew- 
tree  above  them  listened  till  he  made  answer  in  this  lay: 

O  warriors  approach, 

warriors  of  Dal  Araidhe, 

you  will  find  him  in  the  tree  he  is 

the  man  you  seek. 

God  has  given  me  life  here, 

very  bare,  very  narrow, 

no  woman,  no  trysting, 

no  music  or  trance-eyed  sleep. 

When  they  noticed  the  verses  from  the  tree-top  they  saw  Sweeny 
in  branches  and  then  they  talked  their  honey-words,  beseeching 
him  that  he  should  be  trustful,  and  then  made  a  ring  around  the 
tree-bole.  But  Sweeny  arose  nimbly  and  away  to  Cell  Riagain  in  Tir 
Conaill  where  he  perched  in  the  old  tree  of  the  church,  going  and 
coming  between  branches  and  the  rain-clouds  of  the  skies,  trespass- 
ing and  wayfaring  over  peaks  and  summits  and  across  the  ridge-pole 
of  black  hills,  and  visiting  in  dark  mountains,  ruminating  and 
searching  in  cavities  and  narrow  crags  and  slag-slits  in  rocky  hid- 


MAD   SWEENY   VERSUS    JEM    CASEY  569 

ings,  and  lodging  in  the  clump  of  tall  ivies  and  in  the  cracks  of  hill- 
stones,  a  year  of  time  from  summit  to  summit  and  from  glen  to  glen 
and  from  river-mouth  to  river  till  he  arrived  at  ever-delightful  Glen 
Bolcain.  For  it  is  thus  that  Glen  Bolcain  is,  it  has  four  gaps  to  the 
four  winds  and  a  too-fine  too-pleasant  wood  and  fresh-banked  wells 
and  cold-clean  fountains  and  sandy  pellucid  streams  of  clear  water 
with  green-topped  watercress  and  brooklime  long-streamed  on  the 
current,  and  a  richness  of  sorrels  and  wood-sorrels,  lus-bian  and 
biorragan  and  berries  and  wild  garlic,  melle  and  miodhbhun,1  inky 
sloes  and  dun  acorns.  For  it  was  here  that  the  madmen  of  Erin  were 
used  to  come  when  their  year  of  madness  was  complete,  smiting  and 
lamming  each  other  for  choice  of  its  watercress  and  in  rivalry  for  its 
fine  couches. 

In  that  glen  it  was  hard  for  Sweeny  to  endure  the  pain  of  his  bed 
there  on  the  top  of  a  tall  ivy-grown  hawthorn  in  the  glen,  every  twist 
that  he  would  turn  sending  showers  of  hawy  thorns  into  his  flesh, 
tearing  and  rending  and  piercing  him  and  pricking  his  blood-red 
skin.  He  thereupon  changed  beds  to  the  resting  of  another  tree 
where  there  were  tangles  of  thick  fine-thorned  briars  and  a  solitary 
branch  of  blackthorn  growing  up  through  the  core  of  the  brambles. 
He  settled  and  roosted  on  its  slender  perch  till  it  bowed  beneath 
him  and  bent  till  it  slammed  him  to  the  ground,  not  one  inch  of 
hirn  from  toe  to  crown  that  was  not  red-prickled  and  blood-gashed, 
the  skin  to  his  body  being  ragged  and  flapping  and  thorned,  the  tat- 
tered cloak  of  his  perished  skin.  He  arose  death-weak  from  the 
ground  to  his  standing  for  the  recital  of  this  lay. 

A  year  to  last  night 

I  have  lodged  there  in  branches 

from  the  flood-tide  to  the  ebb-tide 

naked. 

Bereft  of  fine  women-folk, 
the  brooklime  for  a  brother — 
our  choice  for  a  fresh  meal 
is  watercress  always. 

Without  accomplished  musicians 
without  generous  women, 
no  jewel- gift  for  bards — 
respected  Christ,  it  has  perished  me. 


1  These  Gaelic  names  of  plants  presumably  have  no  identifiable  English  equivalents. 


570  FLANN    OBRIEN 

The  thorntop  that  is  not  gentle 
has  reduced  me,  has  pierced  me, 
it  has  brought  me  near  death 
the  brown  thorn-bush. 

Once  free,  once  gentle, 
I  am  banished  for  ever, 
wretch-wretched  I  have  been 
a  year  to  last  night. 

He  remained  there  in  Glen  Bolcain  until  he  elevated  himself 
high  in  the  air  and  went  to  Cluain  Cille  on  the  border  of  Tir  Con- 
aill  and  Tir  Boghaine.  He  went  to  the  edge  of  the  water  and  took 
food  against  the  night,  watercress  and  water.  After  that  he  went 
into  the  old  tree  of  the  church  where  he  said  another  melodious 
poem  on  the  subject  of  his  personal  hardship. 

After  another  time  he  set  forth  in  the  air  again  till  he  reached 
the  church  at  Snamh-da-en  ( or  Swim-Two-Birds )  by  the  side  of  the 
Shannon,  arriving  there  on  a  Friday,  to  speak  precisely;  here  the 
clerics  were  engaged  at  the  observation  of  their  nones,  flax  was  being 
beaten  and  here  and  there  a  woman  was  giving  birth  to  a  child; 
and  Sweeny  did  not  stop  until  he  had  recited  the  full  length  of  a 
further  lay. 

For  seven  years,  to  relate  precisely,  was  Sweeny  at  the  air  travel 
of  all  Erin,  returning  always  to  his  tree  in  charming  Glen  Bolcain,  for 
that  was  his  fortress  and  his  haven,  it  was  his  house  there  in  the  glen 
It  was  to  this  place  that  his  foster-brother  Linchehaun  came  for  tid- 
ings concerning  him,  for  he  carried  always  a  deep  affection  for 
Sweeny  and  had  retrieved  him  three  times  from  madness  before  that. 
Linchehaun  went  seeking  him  in  the  glen  with  shouts  and  found 
toe-tracks  by  the  stream-mud  where  the  madman  was  wont  to  ap- 
pease himself  by  the  eating  of  cresses.  But  track  or  trace  of  Sweeny 
he  did  not  attain  for  that  day  and  he  sat  down  in  an  old  deserted 
house  in  the  glen  till  the  labour  and  weariness  of  his  pursuit  brought 
about  his  sleep.  And  Sweeny,  hearing  his  snore  from  his  tree-clump 
in  the  glen,  uttered  this  lay  in  the  pitch  darkness. 

The  man  by  the  wall  snores 

a  snore-sleep  that's  beyond  me, 

for  seven  years  from  that  Tuesday  at  Magh  Rath 

I  have  not  slept  a  wink. 

O  God  that  I  had  not  gone 
to  the  hard  battle! 


MAD   SWEENY   VERSUS    JEM   CASEY  571 

thereafter  my  name  was  Mad — 
Mad  Sweeny  in  the  bush. 

Watercress  from  the  well  at  Cirb 

is  my  lot  at  terce, 

its  colour  is  my  mouth, 

green  on  the  mouth  of  Sweeny. 

Chill  chill  is  my  body 
when  away  from  ivy, 
the  rain  torrent  hurts  it 
and  the  thunder. 

I  am  in  summer  with  the  herons  of  Cuailgne 
with  wolves  in  winter, 
at  other  times  I  am  hidden  in  a  copse — 
not  so  the  man  by  the  wall. 

And  thereafter  he  met  Linchehaun  who  came  visiting  to  his  tree 
and  they  parleyed  there  the  two  of  them  together  and  the  one  of 
them  talkative  and  unseen  in  branches  and  prickle-briars.  And 
Sweeny  bade  Linchehaun  to  depart  and  not  to  pursue  or  annoy  him 
further  because  the  curse  of  Ronan  stopped  him  from  putting  his 
trust  or  his  mad  faith  in  any  man. 

Thereafter  he  travelled  in  distant  places  till  he  came  at  the  black 
fall  of  a  night  to  Ros  Bearaigh  and  lodged  himself  in  a  hunched 
huddle  in  the  middle  of  the  yew-tree  of  the  church  in  that  place. 
But  being  besieged  with  nets  and  hog-harried  by  the  caretaker  of 
the  church  and  his  false  wife,  he  hurried  nimbly  to  the  old  tree  at 
Ros  Eareain  where  he  remained  hidden  and  unnoticed  the  length 
of  a  full  fortnight,  till  the  time  when  linchehaun  came  and  per- 
ceived the  murk  of  his  shadow  in  the  sparse  branches  and  saw  the 
other  branches  he  had  broken  and  bent  in  his  movements  and  in 
changing  trees.  And  the  two  of  them  parleyed  together  until  they 
had  said  between  them  these  fine  words  following. 

Sad  it  is  Sweeny,  said  Linchehaun,  that  your  last  extremity  should 
be  thus,  without  food  or  drink  or  raiment  like  a  fowl,  the  same  man 
that  had  cloth  of  silk  and  of  satin  and  the  foreign  steed  of  the  peer- 
less bridle,  also  comely  generous  women  and  boys  and  hounds  and 
princely  people  of  every  refinement;  hosts  and  tenants  and  men-at- 
arms,  and  mugs  and  goblets  and  embellished  buffalo-horns  for  the 
savouring  of  pleasant-tasted  fine  liquors.  Sad  it  is  to  see  the  same 
man  as  a  hapless  air-fowl. 

Cease  now,  Linchehaun,  said  Sweeney,  and  give  me  tidings. 

Your  father  is  dead,  said  Linchehaun. 


572  FLANN    O'BRIEN 

That  has  seized  me  with  a  blind  agony,  said  Sweeny. 

Your  mother  is  likewise  dead. 

Now  all  the  pity  in  me  is  at  an  end. 

Dead  is  your  brother. 

Gaping  open  is  my  side  on  account  of  that. 

She  has  died  too  your  sister. 

A  needle  for  the  heart  is  an  only  sister. 

Ah,  dumb  dead  is  the  little  son  that  called  you  pop. 

Truly,  said  Sweeny,  that  is  the  last  blow  that  brings  a  man  to  the 
ground. 

When  Sweeney  heard  the  sorry  word  of  his  small  son  still  and 
without  life,  he  fell  with  a  crap  from  the  middle  of  the  yew  to  the 
ground  and  Linchehaun  hastened  to  his  thorn-packed  flank  with  fet- 
ers  and  handcuffs  and  manacles  and  locks  and  black-iron  chains  and 
he  did  not  achieve  a  resting  until  the  lot  were  about  the  madman, 
and  through  him  and  above  him  and  over  him,  roundwise  and 
about.  Thereafter  there  was  a  concourse  of  hospitallers  and  knights 
and  warriors  around  the  trunk  of  the  yew,  and  after  melodious  talk 
they  entrusted  the  mad  one  to  the  care  of  Linchehaun  till  he  would 
take  him  away  to  a  quiet  place  for  a  fortnight  and  a  month,  to  the 
quiet  of  a  certain  room  where  his  senses  returned  to  him,  the  one 
after  the  other,  with  no  one  near  him  but  the  old  mill-hag. 

Oh  hag,  said  Sweeny,  searing  are  the  tribulations  I  have  suffered; 
many  a  terrible  leap  have  I  leaped  from  hill  to  hill,  from  fort  to  fort, 
from  land  to  land,  from  valley  to  valley. 

For  the  sake  of  God,  said  the  hag,  leap  for  us  now  a  leap  such  as 
you  leaped  in  the  days  of  your  madness. 

And  thereupon  Sweeny  gave  a  bound  over  the  top  of  the  bedrail 
till  he  reached  the  extremity  of  the  bench. 

My  conscience  indeed,  said  the  hag,  I  could  leap  the  same  leap 
myself. 

And  the  hag  gave  a  like  jump. 

Sweeny  then  gathered  himself  together  in  the  extremity  of  his  jeal- 
ousy and  threw  a  leap  right  out  through  the  skylight  of  the  hostel. 

I  could  vault  that  vault  too,  said  the  hag  and  straightway  she 
vaulted  the  same  vault.  And  the  short  of  it  is  this,  that  Sweeny  trav- 
elled the  length  of  five  cantreds  of  leaps  until  he  had  penetrated  to 
Glenn  na  nEachtach  in  Fiodh  Gaibhle  with  the  hag  at  her  hag's 
leaps  behind  him;  and  when  Sweeny  rested  there  in  a  huddle  at  the 
top  of  a  tall  ivy-branch,  the  hag  was  perched  there  on  another  tree 


MAD    SWEENY   VERSUS    JEM    CASEY 


573 


beside  him.  He  heard  there  the  voice  of  a  stag  and  he  thereupon 
made  a  lay  eulogizing  aloud  the  trees  and  the  stags  of  Erin,  and  he 
did  not  cease  or  sleep  until  he  had  achieved  these  staves. 

Bleating  one,  little  antlers, 
O  lamenter  we  like 
delightful  the  clamouring 
from  your  glen  you  make. 

O  leafy-oak,  clumpy-leaved, 
you  are  high  above  trees, 
O  hazlet,  little  clumpy-branch — 
the  nut-smell  of  hazels. 

O  alder,  O  alder-friend, 
delightful  your  colour, 
you  don't  prickle  me  or  tear 
in  the  place  you  are. 

O  blackthorn,  little  thorny-one, 
O  little  dark  sloe-tree; 
O  watercress,  O  green-crowned, 
at  the  well-brink. 

O  holly,  holly-shelter, 
O  door  against  the  wind, 
O  ash-tree  inimical, 
you  spearshaft  of  warrior. 

O  birch  clean  and  blessed, 
O  melodious,  O  proud, 
delightful  the  tangle 
of  your  head-rods. 

What  I  like  least  in  woodlands 
from  none  I  conceal  it — 
stirk  of  a  leafy-oak, 
at  its  swaying. 

0  faun,  little  long-legs, 

1  caught  you  with  grips, 

I  rode  you  upon  your  back 
from  peak  to  peak. 

Glen  Bolcain  my  home  ever, 
it  was  my  haven, 
many  a  night  have  I  tried 
a  race  against  the  peak. 

I  beg  your  pardon  for  interrupting,  said  Shanahan,  but  you're 
after  reminding  me  of  something,  brought  the  thing  into  my  head 
in  a  rush. 


574  FLANN   OBRIEN 

He  swallowed  a  draught  of  vesper-milk,  restoring  the  cloudy  glass 
swiftly  to  his  knee  and  collecting  little  belated  flavourings  from  the 
corners  of  his  mouth. 

That  thing  you  were  saying  reminds  me  of  something  bloody  good. 
I  beg  your  pardon  for  interrupting,  Mr.  Storybook. 

In  the  yesterday,  said  Finn,  the  man  who  mixed  his  utterance 
with  the  honeywords  of  Finn  was  the  first  day  put  naked  into  the 
tree  of  Coill  Boirche  with  nothing  to  his  bare  hand  but  a  stick  of 
hazel.  On  the  morning  of  the  second  day  thereafter.  .  .  . 

Now  listen  for  a  minute  till  I  tell  you  something,  said  Shanahan, 
did  any  man  here  ever  hear  of  the  poet  Casey? 

Who  did  you  say?  said  Furriskey. 

Casey.  Jem  Casey. 

On  the  morning  of  the  second  day  thereafter,  he  was  taken  and 
bound  and  rammed  as  regards  his  head  into  a  black  hole  so  that  his 
white  body  was  upside  down  and  upright  in  Erin  for  the  gazing 
thereon  of  man  and  beast. 

Now  give  us  a  chance,  Mister  Storybook,  yourself  and  your  black 
hole,  said  Shanahan  fingering  his  tie-knot  with  a  long  memory- 
frown  across  his  brow.  Come  here  for  a  minute.  Come  here  till  I 
tell  you  about  Casey.  Do  you  mean  to  tell  me  you  never  heard  of  the 
poet  Casey,  Mr.  Furriskey? 

Never  heard  of  him,  said  Furriskey  in  a  solicitous  manner. 

I  can't  say,  said  Lamont,  that  I  ever  heard  of  him  either. 

He  was  a  poet  of  the  people,  said  Shanahan. 

I  see,  said  Furriskey. 

Now  do  you  understand,  said  Shanahan.  A  plain  upstanding  la- 
bouring man,  Mr.  Furriskey,  the  same  as  you  or  me.  A  black  hat  or  a 
bloody  ribbon,  no  by  God,  not  on  Jem  Casey.  A  hard-working  well- 
made  block  of  a  working  man,  Mr.  Lamont,  with  the  handle  of  a 
pick  in  his  hand  like  the  rest  of  us.  Now  say  there  was  a  crowd  of 
men  with  a  ganger  all  working  there  laying  a  length  of  gas-pipe  on 
the  road.  All  right.  The  men  pull  off  their  coats  and  start  shovel- 
ling and  working  there  for  further  orders.  Here  at  one  end  of  the 
hole  you  have  your  men  crowded  up  together  in  a  lump  and  them 
working  away  and  smoking  their  butts  and  talking  about  the  horses 
and  one  thing  and  another.  Now  do  you  understand  what  Im  tell- 
ing you.  Do  you  follow  me? 

I  see  that. 


MAD   SWEENY   VERSUS    JEM   CASEY  575 

But  take  a  look  at  the  other  end  of  the  hole  and  here  is  my  brave 
Casey  digging  away  there  on  his  own.  Do  you  understand  what  I 
mean,  Mr.  Furriskey? 

Oh  I  see  it  all  right,  said  Furriskey. 

Right.  None  of  your  horses  or  your  bloody  blather  for  him.  Not  a 
bit  of  it.  Here  is  my  nabs  saying  nothing  to  nobody  but  working 
away  at  a  pome  in  his  head  with  a  pick  in  his  hand  and  the  sweat 
pouring  down  off  his  face  from  the  force  of  his  work  and  his  bloody 
exertions.  That's  a  quare  one! 

Do  you  mind  that  now,  said  Lamont. 

It's  a  quare  one  and  one  that  takes  a  lot  of  beating.  Not  a  word 
to  nobody,  not  a  look  to  the  left  or  right  but  the  brainbox  going 
there  all  the  time.  Just  Jem  Casey,  a  poor  ignorant  labouring  man 
but  head  and  shoulders  above  the  whole  bloody  lot  of  them,  not  a 
man  in  the  whole  country  to  beat  him  when  it  comes  to  getting  to- 
gether a  bloody  pome — not  a  poet  in  the  whole  world  that  could 
hold  a  candle  to  Jem  Casey,  not  a  man  of  them  fit  to  stand  beside  him. 
By  God  I'd  back  him  to  win  by  a  canter  against  the  whole  bloody  lot 
of  them  give  him  his  due. 

Is  that  a  fact,  Mr.  Shanahan,  said  Lamont.  It's  not  every  day  in 
the  week  you  come  across  a  man  like  that. 

Do  you  know  what  I'm  going  to  tell  you,  Mr.  Lamont,  he  was  a 
man  that  could  give  the  lot  of  them  a  good  start,  pickaxe  and  all. 
He  was  a  man  that  could  meet  them  .  .  .  and  meet  the  best  .  .  . 
and  beat  them  at  their  own  game,  now  I'm  telling  you. 

I  suppose  he  could,  said  Furriskey. 

Now  I  know  what  I'm  talking  about.  Give  a  man  his  due.  If  a 
man's  station  is  high  or  low  he  is  all  the  same  to  the  God  I  know. 
Take  the  bloody  black  hats  off  the  whole  bunch  of  them  and  where 
are  you? 

That's  the  way  to  look  at  it,  of  course,  said  Furriskey. 

Give  them  a  bloody  pick,  I  mean,  Mr.  Furriskey,  give  them  the 
shaft  of  a  shovel  into  their  hand  and  tell  them  to  dig  a  hole  and 
have  the  length  of  a  page  of  poetry  off  by  heart  in  their  heads  before 
the  five  o'clock  whistle.  What  will  you  get?  By  God  you  could  take 
off  your  hat  to  what  you'd  get  at  five  o'clock  from  that  crowd  and 
that's  a  sure  sharkey. 

You'd  be  wasting  your  time  if  you  waited  till  five  o'clock  if  you 
ask  me,  said  Furriskey  with  a  nod  of  complete  agreement. 


576  FLANN    OBRIEN 

You're  right  there,  said  Shanahan,  you'd  be  waiting  around  for 
bloody  nothing.  Oh  I  know  them  and  I  know  my  hard  Casey  too.  By 
Janey  he'd  be  up  at  the  whistle  with  a  pome  a  yard  long,  a  bloody 
lovely  thing  that  would  send  my  nice  men  home  in  a  hurry,  home 
with  their  bloody  tails  between  their  legs.  Yes,  I've  seen  his  pomes 
and  read  them  and  ...  do  you  know  what  I'm  going  to  tell  you,  I 
have  loved  them.  I'm  not  ashamed  to  sit  here  and  say  it,  Mr.  Furris- 
key.  I've  known  the  man  and  I've  known  his  pomes  and  by  God  I 
have  loved  the  two  of  them  and  loved  them  well,  too.  Do  you  un- 
derstand what  I'm  saying,  Mr.  Lamont?  You,  Mr.  Furriskey? 

Oh  that's  right. 

Do  you  know  what  it  is,  I've  met  the  others,  the  whole  lot  of  them. 
I've  met  them  all  and  know  them  all.  I  have  seen  them  and  I  have 
read  their  pomes.  I  have  heard  them  recited  by  men  that  know  how 
to  use  their  tongues,  men  that  couldn't  be  beaten  at  their  own  game. 
I  have  seen  whole  books  filled  up  with  their  stuff,  books  as  thick  as 
that  table  there  and  I'm  telling  you  no  lie.  But  by  God,  at  the  heel 
of  the  hunt,  there  was  only  one  poet  for  me. 

On  the  morning  of  the  third  day  thereafter,  said  Finn,  he  was 
flogged  until  he  bled  water. 

Only  the  one,  Mr.  Shanahan?  said  Lamont. 

Only  the  one.  And  that  one  poet  was  a  man  ...  by  the  name 
...  of  Jem  Casey.  No  'Sir',  no  'Mister',  no  nothing.  Jem  Casey,  Poet 
of  the  Pick,  that's  all.  A  labouring  man,  Mr.  Lamont,  but  as  sweet 
a  singer  in  his  own  way  as  you'll  find  in  the  bloody  trees  there  of  a 
spring  day,  and  that's  a  fact.  Jem  Casey,  an  ignorant  God-fearing 
upstanding  labouring  man,  a  bloody  navvy.  Do  you  know  what  I'm 
going  to  tell  you,  I  don't  believe  he  ever  lifted  the  latch  of  a  school 
door.  Would  you  believe  that  now? 

I'd  believe  it  of  Casey,  said  Furriskey,  and 

I'd  believe  plenty  more  of  the  same  man,  said  Lamont.  You 
haven't  any  of  his  pomes  on  you,  have  you,  Mr.  Shanahan? 

Now  take  that  stuff  your  man  was  giving  us  a  while  ago,  said  Shan- 
ahan without  heed,  about  the  green  hills  and  the  bloody  swords 
and  the  bird  giving  out  the  pay  from  the  top  of  the  tree.  Now  that's 
good  stuff,  it's  bloody  nice.  Do  you  know  what  it  is,  I  liked  it  and 
liked  it  well.  I  enjoyed  that  certainly. 

It  wasn't  bad  at  all,  said  Furriskey,  I  have  heard  worse,  by  God, 
often.  It  was  all  right  now. 

Do  you  see  what  I'm  getting  at,  do  you  understand  me,  said  Shan- 


MAD   SWEENY   VERSUS    JEM   CASEY  577 

ahan.  It's  good,  very  good.  But  by  Christopher  it's  not  every  man 
could  see  it,  I'm  bloody  sure  of  that,  one  in  a  thousand. 

Oh  that's  right  too,  said  Lamont. 

You  can't  beat  it,  of  course,  said  Shanahan  with  a  reddening  of 
the  features,  the  real  old  stuff  of  the  native  land,  you  know,  stuff 
that  brought  scholars  to  our  shore  when  your  men  on  the  other  side 
were  on  the  flat  of  their  bellies  before  the  calf  of  gold  with  a  sheep- 
skin around  their  man.  It's  the  stuff  that  put  our  country  where  she 
stands  to-day,  Mr.  Furriskey,  and  I'd  have  my  tongue  out  of  my  head 
by  the  bloody  roots  before  I'd  be  heard  saying  a  word  against  it.  But 
the  man  in  the  street,  where  does  he  come  in?  By  God  he  doesn't 
come  in  at  all  as  far  as  I  can  see. 

What  do  my  brave  men  in  the  black  hats  care  whether  he's  in  or 
out,  asked  Furriskey.  What  do  they  care?  It's  a  short  jump  for  the 
man  in  the  street,  I'm  thinking,  if  he's  waiting  for  that  crowd  to  do 
anything  for  him.  They're  a  nice  crowd,  now,  I'm  telling  you. 

Oh  that's  the  truth,  said  Lamont. 

Another  thing,  said  Shanahan,  you  can  get  too  much  of  that  stuff. 
Feed  yourself  up  with  that  tack  once  and  you  won't  want  more  for  a 
long  time. 

There's  no  doubt  about  it,  said  Furriskey. 

Try  it  once,  said  Shanahan,  and  you  won't  want  it  a  second  time. 

Do  you  know  what  it  is,  said  Lamont,  there  are  people  who  read 
that  .  .  .  and  keep  reading  it  .  .  .  and  read  damn  the  bloody  thing 
else.  Now  that's  a  mistake. 

A  big  mistake,  said  Furriskey. 

But  there's  one  man,  said  Shanahan,  there's  one  man  that  can 
write  pomes  that  you  can  read  all  day  and  all  night  and  keep  read- 
ing them  to  your  heart's  content,  stuff  you'd  never  tire  of.  Pomes 
written  by  a  man  that  is  one  of  ourselves  and  written  down  for  our- 
selves to  read.  The  name  of  that  man  .  .  . 

Now  that's  what  you  want,  said  Furriskey. 

The  name  of  that  man,  said  Shanahan,  is  a  name  that  could  be 
christianed  on  you  or  me,  a  name  that  won't  shame  us.  And  that 
name,  said  Shanahan,  is  Jem  Casey. 

And  a  very  good  man,  said  Lamont. 

Jem  Casey,  said  Furriskey. 

Do  you  understand  what  I  mean,  said  Shanahan. 

You  haven't  any  of  his  pomes  on  you,  have  you,  said  Lamont.  If 
there's  one  thing  I'd  like.  .  .  . 


578  FLANN    OBRIEN 

I  haven't  one  on  me  if  that's  what  you  mean,  Mr.  Lamont,  said 
Shanahan,  but  I  could  give  one  out  as  quick  as  I'd  say  my  prayers. 
By  God  it's  not  for  nothing  that  I  call  myself  a  pal  of  Jem  Casey. 

I'm  glad  to  hear  it,  said  Lamont. 

Stand  up  there  and  recite  it  man,  said  Furriskey,  don't  keep  us 
waiting.  What's  the  name  of  it  now? 

The  name  or  title  of  the  pome  I  am  about  to  recite,  gentlemen, 
said  Shanahan  with  leisure  priest-like  in  character,  is  a  pome  by  the 
name  of  the  'Workman's  Friend.'  By  God  you  can't  beat  it.  I've  heard 
it  praised  by  the  highest.  It's  a  pome  about  a  thing  that's  known  to 
all  of  us.  It's  about  a  drink  of  porter.1 

Porter! 

Porter. 

Up  on  your  legs  man,  said  Furriskey.  Mr.  Lamont  and  myself  are 
waiting  and  listening.  Up  you  get  now. 

Come  on,  off  you  go,  said  Lamont. 

Now  listen,  said  Shanahan  clearing  the  way  with  small  coughs. 
Listen  now. 

He  arose  holding  out  his  hand  and  bending  his  knee  beneath  him 
on  the  chair. 

When  things  go  wrong  and  will  not  come  right, 
Though  you  do  the  best  you  can, 
When  life  looks  black  as  the  hour  of  night — 
A  PINT  OF  PLAIN  IS  YOUR  ONLY  MAN. 

By  God  there's  a  lilt  in  that,  said  Lamont. 

Very  good  indeed,  said  Furriskey.  Very  nice. 

I'm  telling  you  it's  the  business,  said  Shanahan.  Listen  now. 

When  money's  tight  and  is  hard  to  get 

And  your  horse  has  also  ran, 

When  all  you  have  is  a  heap  of  debt — 

A  PINT  OF  PLAIN  IS  YOUR  ONLY  MAN. 

When  health  is  bad  and  your  heart  feels  strange, 

And  your  face  is  pale  and  wan, 

When  doctors  say  that  you  need  a  change, 

A  PINT  OF  PLAIN  IS  YOUR  ONLY  MAN. 

There  are  things  in  that  pome  that  make  for  what  you  call  per- 
manence. Do  you  know  what  I  mean,  Mr.  Furriskey? 

1  The  Irish  working  man's  drink,  a  black  ale  somewhat  weaker  and  cheaper  than  stout. 
Also  known  as  'plain  porter'  or  just  'plain.' 


MAD    SWEENY   VERSUS    JEM    CASEY  579 

There's  no  doubt  about  it,  it's  a  grand  thing,  said  Furriskey. 
Come  on,  Mr.  Shanahan,  give  us  another  verse.  Don't  tell  me  that  is 
the  end  of  it. 

Can't  you  listen?  said  Shanahan. 

When  food  is  scarce  and  your  larder  bare 
And  no  rashers  grease  your  pan, 
When  hunger  grows  as  your  meals  are  rare — 
A  PINT  OF  PLAIN  IS  YOUR  ONLY  MAN. 

What  do  you  think  of  that  now? 

It's  a  pome  that'll  live,  called  Lamont,  a  pome  that'll  be  heard 
and  clapped  when  plenty  more  .  .  . 

But  wait  till  you  hear  the  last  verse,  man,  the  last  polish-off,  said 
Shanahan.  He  frowned  and  waved  his  hand. 

Oh  it's  good,  it's  good,  said  Furriskey. 

In  time  of  trouble  and  lousy  strife, 

You  have  still  got  a  darlint  plan, 

You  still  can  turn  to  a  brighter  life — 

A  PINT  OF  PLAIN  IS  YOUR  ONLY  MAN! 

Did  you  ever  hear  anything  like  it  in  your  life,  said  Furriskey.  A 
pint  of  plain,  by  God,  what!  Oh  I'm  telling  you,  Casey  was  a  man 
in  twenty  thousand,  there's  no  doubt  about  that.  He  knew  what  he 
was  at,  too  true  he  did.  If  he  knew  nothing  else,  he  knew  how  to 
write  a  pome.  A  pint  of  plain  is  your  only  man. 

Didn't  I  tell  you  he  was  good?  said  Shanahan.  Oh  by  Gorrah 
you  can't  cod  me. 

There's  one  thing  in  that  pome,  permanence,  if  you  know  what  I 
mean,  That  pome,  I  mean  to  say,  is  a  pome  that'll  be  heard 
wherever  the  Irish  race  is  wont  to  gather,  it'll  live  as  long  as  there's 
a  hard  root  of  an  Irishman  left  by  the  Almighty  on  this  planet, 
mark  my  words.  What  do  you  think,  Mr.  Shanahan? 

It'll  live,  Mr.  Lamont,  it'll  live. 

I'm  bloody  sure  it  will,  said  Lamont. 

A  pint  of  plain,  by  God,  eh?  said  Furriskey. 

Tell  us,  my  Old  Timer,  said  Lamont  benignly,  what  do  you  think 
of  it?  Give  the  company  the  benefit  of  your  scholarly  pertinacious 
fastidious  opinion,  Sir  Storybook.  Eh,  Mr.  Shanahan? 

Conspirators'  eyes  were  winked  smartly  in  the  dancing  firelight. 
Furriskey  rapped  Finn  about  the  knees. 


580  FLANN   OBRIEN 

Wake  up! 

And  Sweeny  continued,  said  corn-yellow  Finn,  at  the  recital  of 
these  staves. 


If  I  were  to  search  alone 
the  hills  of  the  brown  world, 
better  would  I  like  my  sole  hut 
in  Glen  Bolcain. 

Good  its  water  greenish-green 
good  its  clean  strong  wind, 
good  its  cress-green  cresses, 
best  its  branching  brooklime. 

Quick  march  again,  said  Lamont.  It'll  be  a  good  man  that'll  put 
a  stop  to  that  man's  tongue.  More  of  your  fancy  kiss-my-hand,  by 
God. 

Let  him  talk,  said  Furriskey,  it'll  do  him  good.  It  has  to  come  out 
somewhere. 

I'm  a  man,  said  Shanahan  in  a  sententious  fashion,  that  could  al- 
ways listen  to  what  my  fellowman  has  to  say.  I'm  telling  you  now, 
it's  a  wise  man  that  listens  and  says  nothing. 

Certainly  said  Lamont.  A  wise  old  owl  once  lived  in  a  wood,  the 
more  he  heard  the  less  he  said,  the  less  he  said  the  more  he  heard, 
let's  emulate  that  wise  old  bird. 

There's  a  lot  in  that,  said  Furriskey.  A  little  less  of  the  talk  and  we 
were  right. 

Finn  continued  with  a  patient  weariness,  speaking  slowly  to  the 
fire  and  to  the  six  suppliant  shoes  that  were  in  devotion  around 
it,  the  voice  of  the  old  man  from  the  dim  bed. 

Good  its  sturdy  ivies, 
good  its  bright  neat  sallow, 
good  its  yewy  yew-yews, 
best  its  sweet-noise  birch. 

A  haughty  ivy 

growing  through  a  twisted  tree, 
myself  on  its  true  summit, 
I  would  loth  leave  it. 

I  flee  before  skylarks, 
it  is  the  tense  stern-race, 
I  overleap  the  clumps 
on  the  high  hill-peaks. 


MAD   SWEENY   VERSUS    JEM   CASEY  581 

When  it  rises  in  front  of  me 
the  proud  turtle-dove, 
I  overtake  it  swiftly 
since  my  plumage  grew. 

The  stupid  unwitting  woodcock 
when  it  rises  up  before  me, 
methinks  it  red-hostile, 
and  the  blackbird  that  cries  havoc. 

Small  foxes  yelping 
to  me  and  from  me, 
the  wolves  tear  them — 
I  flee  their  cries. 

They  journeyed  in  their  chase  of  me 
in  their  swift  courses 
so  that  I  flew  away  from  them 
to  the  tops  of  mountains. 

On  every  pool  there  will  rain 
a  starry  frost; 

I  am  wretched  and  wandering 
under  it  on  the  peak. 

The  herons  are  calling 
in  cold  Glen  Eila 
swift-flying  flocks  are  flying, 
coming  and  going. 

I  do  not  relish 
the  mad  clack  of  humans 
sweeter  warble  of  the  bird 
in  the  place  he  is. 

I  like  not  the  trumpeting 
heard  at  morn; 
sweeter  hearing  is  the  squeal 
of  badgers  in  Benna  Broc. 

I  do  not  like  it 

the  loud  bugling; 

finer  is  the  stagbelling  stag 

of  antler-points  twice  twenty. 

There  are  makings  for  plough-teams 
from  glen  to  glen; 
each  resting-stag  at  rest 
on  the  summit  of  the  peaks. 

Excuse  me  for  a  second,  interposed  Shanahan  in  an  urgent  man- 
ner, I've  got  a  verse  in  my  head.  Wait  now. 
What! 


582  FLANN   OBRIEN 

Listen,  man.  Listen  to  this  before  it's  lost.  When  stags  appear  on 
the  mountain  high,  with  flanks  the  colour  of  bran,  when  a  badger 
bold  can  say  good-bye,  A  PINT  OF  PLAIN  IS  YOUR  ONLY  MAN! 

Well,  by  God  Shanahan,  I  never  thought  you  had  it  in  you,  said 
Furriskey,  turning  his  wide-eyed  smile  to  the  smile  of  Lamont,  I 
never  thought  you  had  it  in  you.  Take  a  look  at  the  bloody  poet, 
Mr.  Lamont.  What? 

The  hard  Shanahan  by  God,  said  Lamont.  The  hard  man.  That's 
a  good  one  all  right.  Put  it  there,  Mr.  Shanahan. 

Hands  were  extended  till  they  met,  the  generous  grip  of  friendship 
in  front  of  the  fire. 

All  right,  said  Shanahan  laughing  in  the  manner  of  a  proud  pea- 
cock, don't  shake  the  handle  off  me  altogether.  Gentlemen,  you 
flatter  me.  Order  ten  pints  a  man  till  we  celebrate. 

My  hard  bloody  Shanahan,  said  Lamont. 

That'll  do  you  now  the  pair  of  ye,  said  Shanahan.  Silence  in  the 
court  now. 

The  droning  from  the  bed  restarted  where  it  stopped. 

The  stag  of  steep  Slieve  Eibhlinne, 
the  stag  of  sharp  Slieve  Fuaid, 
the  stag  of  Eala,  the  stag  of  Orrery, 
the  mad  stag  of  Loch  Lein.  .  .  . 


WILLIAM    BUTLER    YEATS 

The  Resurrection1 


Before  I  had  finished  this  play  I  saw  that  its  subject-matter  might 
make  it  unsuited  for  the  public  stage  in  England  or  in  Ireland.  I  had 
begun  it  with  an  ordinary  stage  scene  in  the  mind's  eye,  curtained 
walls,  a  window  and  door  at  back,  a  curtained  door  at  left.  I  now 
changed  the  stage  directions  and  wrote  songs  for  the  unfolding  and 
folding  of  the  curtain  that  it  might  be  played  in  a  studio  or  a  draw- 
ing-room like  my  dance  plays,  or  at  the  Peacock  Theatre2  before  a 
specially  chosen  audience.  If  it  is  played  at  the  Peacock  Theatre  the 
Musicians  may  sing  the  opening  and  closing  songs,  as  they  pull 
apart  or  pull  together  the  proscenium  curtain;  the  whole  stage  may 
be  hung  with  curtains  with  an  opening  at  the  left.  While  the  play  is 
in  progress  the  Musicians  will  sit  towards  the  right  of  the  audience; 
if  at  the  Peacock,  on  the  step  which  separates  the  stage  from  the  au- 
dience, or  one  on  either  side  of  the  proscenium. 


Song  for  the  Unfolding  and  Folding  of  the  Curtain 
I 

I  saw  a  staring  virgin  stand 

Where  holy  Dionysus  died, 

And  tear  the  heart  out  of  his  side, 

And  lay  the  heart  upon  her  hand 

And  bear  that  beating  heart  away; 

And  then  did  all  the  Muses  sing 

Of  Magnus  Annus  at  the  spring, 

As  though  God's  death  were  but  a  play. 


II 

Another  Troy  must  rise  and  set, 
Another  lineage  feed  the  crow, 
Another  Argo's  painted  prow 
Drive  to  a  flashier  bauble  yet. 
The  Roman  Empire  stood  appalled: 


1  First  performed  July  30,  1934  at  the  Abbey  Theatre,  Dublin. 

2  A  small  playhouse  opened  by  the  Abbey  Theatre  in  1928  for  training  actors  and  experi- 
menting  with   new  plays. 

583 


584  WILLIAM   BUTLER   YEATS 

It  dropped  the  reins  of  peace  and  war 
When  that  fierce  virgin  and  her  Star 
Out  of  the  fabulous  darkness  called. 

(The  hebrew  is  discovered  alone  upon  the  stage;  he  has  a  sword  or  spear. 
The  Musicians  make  faint  drum-taps,  or  sound  a  rattle;  the  greek  enters  through 
the  audience  from  the  left.) 

The  Hebrew.  Did  you  find  out  what  the  noise  was? 

The  Greek.  Yes,  I  asked  a  Rabbi. 

The  Hebrew.  Were  you  not  afraid? 

The  Greek.  How  could  he  know  that  I  am  called  a  Christian?  I 
wore  the  cap  I  brought  from  Alexandria.  He  said  the  followers  of 
Dionysus  were  parading  the  streets  with  rattles  and  drums;  that 
such  a  thing  had  never  happened  in  this  city  before;  that  the  Ro- 
man authorities  were  afraid  to  interfere.  The  followers  of  Dio- 
nysus have  been  out  among  the  fields  tearing  a  goat  to  pieces  and 
drinking  its  blood,  and  are  now  wandering  through  the  streets 
like  a  pack  of  wolves.  The  mob  was  so  terrified  of  their  frenzy 
that  it  left  them  alone,  or,  as  seemed  more  likely,  so  busy  hunt- 
ing Christians  it  had  time  for  nothing  else.  I  turned  to  go,  but  he 
called  me  back  and  asked  where  I  lived.  When  I  said  outside  the 
gates,  he  asked  if  it  was  true  that  the  dead  had  broken  out  of  the 
cemeteries. 

The  Hebrew.  We  can  keep  the  mob  off  for  some  minutes,  long 
enough  for  the  Eleven  to  escape  over  the  roofs.  I  shall  defend  the 
narrow  stair  between  this  and  the  street  until  I  am  killed,  then 
you  will  take  my  place.  Why  is  not  the  Syrian  here? 

The  Greek.  I  met  him  at  the  door  and  sent  him  on  a  message;  he 
will  be  back  before  long. 

The  Hebrew.  The  three  of  us  will  be  few  enough  for  the  work  in 
hand. 

The  Greek  [glancing  towards  the  opening  at  the  left].  What  are 
they  doing  now? 

The  Hebrew.  While  you  were  down  below,  James  brought  a  loaf 
out  of  a  bag,  and  Nathaniel  found  a  skin  of  wine.  They  put  them 
on  the  table.  It  was  a  long  time  since  they  had  eaten  anything. 
Then  they  began  to  speak  in  low  voices,  and  John  spoke  of  the 
last  time  they  had  eaten  in  that  room. 


THE   RESURRECTION  585 

The  Greek.  They  were  thirteen  then. 

The  Hebrew.  He  said  that  Jesus  divided  bread  and  wine  amongst 
them.  When  John  had  spoken  they  sat  still,  nobody  eating  or 
drinking.  If  you  stand  here  you  will  see  them.  That  is  Peter  close 
to  the  window.  He  has  been  quite  motionless  for  a  long  time,  his 
head  upon  his  breast. 

The  Greek.  Is  it  true  that  when  the  soldier  asked  him  if  he  were  a 
follower  of  Jesus  he  denied  it? 

The  Hebrew.  Yes,  it  is  true.  James  told  me.  Peter  told  the  others  what 
he  had  done.  But  when  the  moment  came  they  were  all  afraid.  I 
must  not  blame.  I  might  have  been  no  braver.  What  are  we  all 
but  dogs  who  have  lost  their  master? 

The  Greek.  Yet  you  and  I  if  the  mob  come  will  die  rather  than  let 
it  up  that  stair. 

The  Hebrew.  Ah!  That  is  different.  I  am  going  to  draw  that  cur- 
tain; they  must  not  hear  what  I  am  going  to  say.  [He  draws  cur- 
tain.] 

The  Greek.  I  know  what  is  in  your  mind. 

The  Hebrew.  They  are  afraid  because  they  do  not  know  what  to 
think.  When  Jesus  was  taken  they  could  no  longer  believe  him 
the  Messiah.  We  can  find  consolation,  but  for  the  Eleven  it  was  al- 
ways complete  light  or  complete  darkness. 

The  Greek.  Because  they  are  so  much  older. 

The  Hebrew.  No,  no.  You  have  only  to  look  into  their  faces  to  see 
they  were  intended  to  be  saints.  They  are  unfitted  for  anything 
else.  What  makes  you  laugh? 

The  Greek.  Something  I  can  see  through  the  window.  There,  where 
I  am  pointing.  There,  at  the  end  of  the  street.  [They  stand  to- 
gether looking  out  over  the  heads  of  the  audience.] 

The  Hebrew.  I  cannot  see  anything. 

The  Greek.  The  hill. 

The  Hebrew.  That  is  Calvary. 

The  Greek.  And  the  three  crosses  on  the  top  of  it.  [He  laughs 
again.] 


586  WILLIAM   BUTLER   YEATS 

The  Hebrew.  Be  quiet.  You  do  not  know  what  you  are  doing.  You 
have  gone  out  of  your  mind.  You  are  laughing  at  Calvary. 

The  Greek.  No,  no.  I  am  laughing  because  they  thought  they  were 
nailing  the  hands  of  a  living  man  upon  the  Cross,  and  all  the 
time  there  was  nothing  there  but  a  phantom. 

The  Hebrew.  I  saw  him  buried. 

The  Greek.  We  Greeks  understand  these  things.  No  god  has  ever 
been  buried;  no  god  has  ever  suffered.  Christ  only  seemed  to  be 
born,  only  seemed  to  eat,  seemed  to  sleep,  seemed  to  walk,  seemed 
to  die.  I  did  not  mean  to  tell  you  until  I  had  proof. 

The  Hebrew.  Proof? 

The  Greek.  I  shall  have  proof  before  nightfall. 

The  Hebrew.  You  talk  wildly,  but  a  masterless  dog  can  bay  the 
moon. 

The  Greek.  No  Jew  can  understand  these  things. 

The  Hebrew.  It  is  you  who  do  not  understand.  It  is  I  and  those  men 
in  there  perhaps  who  begin  to  understand  at  last.  He  was  nothing 
more  than  a  man,  the  best  man  who  ever  lived.  Nobody  before 
him  had  so  pitied  human  misery.  He  preached  the  coming  of  the 
Messiah  because  he  thought  the  Messiah  would  take  it  all  upon 
himself.  Then  some  day  when  he  was  very  tired,  after  a  long 
journey  perhaps,  he  thought  that  he  himself  was  the  Messiah.  He 
thought  that  because  of  all  destinies  it  seemed  the  most  terrible. 

The  Greek.  How  could  a  man  think  himself  the  Messiah? 

The  Hebrew.  It  was  always  foretold  that  he  would  be  born  of  a 
woman. 

The  Greek.  To  say  that  a  god  can  be  born  of  woman,  carried  in 
her  womb,  fed  upon  her  breast,  washed  as  children  are  washed,  is 
the  most  terrible  blasphemy. 

The  Hebrew.  If  the  Messiah  were  not  born  of  a  woman  he  could 
not  take  away  the  sins  of  man.  Every  sin  starts  a  stream  of  suffer- 
ing, but  the  Messiah  takes  it  all  away. 

The  Greek.  Every  man's  sins  are  his  property.  Nobody  else  has  a 
right  to  them. 

The  Hebrew.  The  Messiah  is  able  to  exhaust  human  suffering  ay 


THE   RESURRECTION  587 

though  it  were  all  gathered  together  in  the  spot  of  a  burning 
glass. 

The  Greek.  That  makes  me  shudder.  The  utmost  possible  suffering 
as  an  object  of  worship!  You  are  morbid  because  your  nation  has 
ho  statues. 

The  Hebrew.  What  I  have  described  is  what  I  thought  until  three 
days  ago. 

The  Greek.  I  say  that  there  is  nothing  in  the  tomb. 

The  Hebrew.  I  saw  him  carried  up  the  mountain  and  the  tomb  shut 

upon  him. 
The  Greek.  I  have  sent  the  Syrian  to  the  tomb  to  prove  that  there 

is  nothing  there. 

The  Hebrew.  You  knew  the  danger  we  were  all  in  and  yet  you 
weakened  our  guard? 

The  Greek.  I  have  risked  the  apostles'  lives  and  our  own.  What  I 
have  sent  the  Syrian  to  find  out  is  more  important. 

The  Hebrew.  None  of  us  is  in  our  right  mind  to-day.  I  have  got  some- 
thing in  my  own  head  that  shocks  me. 

The  Greek.  Something  you  do  not  want  to  speak  about? 

The  Hebrew.  I  am  glad  that  he  was  not  the  Messiah;  we  might  all 
have  been  deceived  to  our  lives'  end,  or  learnt  the  truth  too 
late.  One  had  to  sacrifice  everything  that  the  divine  suffering 
might,  as  it  were,  descend  into  one's  mind  and  soul  and  make 
them  pure.  [A  sound  of  rattles  and  drums  at  first  in  short  bursts 
that  come  between  sentences,  but  gradually  growing  continuous.] 
One  had  to  give  up  all  worldly  knowledge,  all  ambition,  do  noth- 
ing of  one's  own  will.  Only  the  divine  could  have  any  reality.  God 
had  to  take  complete  possession.  It  must  be  a  terrible  thing  when 
one  is  old,  and  the  tomb  round  the  corner,  to  think  of  all  the  am- 
bitions one  has  put  aside;  to  think,  perhaps,  a  great  deal  about 
women.  I  want  to  marry  and  have  children. 

The  Greek  [who  is  standing  facing  the  audience,  and  looking  out 
over  their  heads].  It  is  the  worshippers  of  Dionysus.  They  are  un- 
der the  window  now.  There  is  a  group  of  women  who  carry  upon 
their  shoulders  a  bier  with  an  image  of  the  dead  god  upon  it.  No, 
they  are  not  women.  They  are  men  dressed  as  women.  I  have 


588  WILLIAM   BUTLER   YEATS 

seen  something  like  it  in  Alexandria.  They  are  all  silent,  as  if 
something  were  going  to  happen.  My  God!  What  a  spectacle!  In 
Alexandria  a  few  men  paint  their  lips  vermilion.  They  imitate 
women  that  they  may  obtain  in  worship  a  woman's  self-abandon- 
ment. No  great  harm  comes  of  it — but  here!  Come  and  look  for 
yourself. 

The  Hebrew.  I  will  not  look  at  such  madmen. 

The  Greek.  Though  the  music  has  stopped,  some  men  are  still  danc- 
ing, and  some  of  the  dancers  have  gashed  themselves  with  knives, 
imagining  themselves,  I  suppose,  at  once  the  god  and  the  Titans 
that  murdered  him.  A  little  further  off  a  man  and  woman  are 
coupling  in  the  middle  of  the  street.  She  thinks  the  surrender  to 
some  man  the  dance  threw  into  her  arms  may  bring  her  god  back 
to  life.  All  are  from  the  foreign  quarter  to  judge  by  face  and  cos- 
tume, and  are  the  most  ignorant  excitable  class  of  Asiatic  Greeks, 
the  dregs  of  the  population.  Such  people  suffer  terribly  and  seek 
forgetfulness  in  monstrous  ceremonies.  Ah,  that  is  what  they  were 
waiting  for.  The  crowd  has  parted  to  make  way  for  a  singer.  It 
is  a  girl.  No,  not  a  girl;  a  boy  from  the  theatre.  I  know  him.  He 
acts  girls'  parts.  He  is  dressed  as  a  girl,  but  his  fingernails  are 
gilded  and  his  wig  is  made  of  gilded  cords.  He  looks  like  a  statue 
out  of  some  temple.  I  remember  something  of  the  kind  in  Alexan- 
dria. Three  days  after  the  full  moon,  a  full  moon  in  March,  they 
sing  the  death  of  the  god  and  pray  for  his  resurrection. 

(One  of  the  Musicians  sings  the  following  song) 


Astrea's  holy  child! 
A  rattle  in  the  wood 
Where  a  Titan  strode! 
His  rattle  drew  the  child 
Into  that  solitude. 


Barrum,  barrum,  barrum.  [Drum-taps  accompany  and  follow  the 
words.] 

We  wandering  women, 
Wives  for  all  that  come, 
Tried  to  draw  him  home; 
And  every  wandering  woman 
Beat  upon  a  drum. 


THE   RESURRECTION  589 

Barrum,  barrum,  barrum.  [Drum-taps  as  before.] 

But  the  murderous  Titans 
Where  the  woods  grow  dim 
Stood  and  waited  him. 
The  great  hands  of  those  Titans 
Tore  limb  from  limb. 

Barrum,  barrum,  barrum.  [Drum-taps  as  before.] 

On  virgin  Astrea 

That  can  succour  all 

Wandering  women  call; 

Call  out  to  Astrea 

That  the  moon  stood  at  the  full. 

Barrum,  barrum,  barrum.  [Drum-taps  as  before.] 

The  Greek.  I  cannot  think  all  that  self-surrender  and  self-abasement 
is  Greek,  despite  the  Greek  name  of  its  god.  When  the  goddess 
came  to  Achilles  in  the  battle  she  did  not  interfere  with  his  soul, 
she  took  him  by  his  yellow  hair.  Lucretius  thinks  that  the  gods 
appear  in  the  visions  of  the  day  and  night  but  are  indifferent  to 
human  fate;  that,  however,  is  the  exaggeration  of  a  Roman  rheto- 
rician. They  can  be  discovered  by  contemplation,  in  their  faces  a 
high  keen  joy  like  the  cry  of  a  bat,  and  the  man  who  lives  heroi- 
cally gives  them  the  only  earthly  body  that  they  covet.  He,  as  it 
were,  copies  their  gestures  and  their  acts.  What  seems  their  in- 
difference is  but  their  eternal  possession  of  themselves.  Man,  too, 
remains  separate.  He  does  not  surrender  his  soul.  He  keeps  his 
privacy.  [Drum-taps  to  represent  knocking  at  the  door.] 

The  Hebrew.  There  is  someone  at  the  door,  but  I  dare  not  open 
with  that  crowd  in  the  street. 

The  Greek.  You  need  not  be  afraid.  The  crowd  has  begun  to  move 
away.  [The  Hebrew  goes  down  into  the  audience  towards  the 
left.]  I  deduce  from  our  great  philosophers  that  a  god  can  over- 
whelm man  with  disaster,  take  health  and  wealth  away,  but  man 
keeps  his  privacy.  If  that  is  the  Syrian  he  may  bring  such  confir- 
mation that  mankind  will  never  forget  his  words. 

The  Hebrew  [from  amongst  the  audience].  It  is  the  Syrian.  There 


590  WILLIAM   BUTLER   YEATS 

is  something  wrong.  He  is  ill  or  drunk.   [He  helps  the  Syrian 
on  to  the  stage.] 

The  Syrian.  I  am  like  a  drunken  man.  I  can  hardly  stand  upon  my 
feet.  Something  incredible  has  happened.  I  have  run  all  the  way. 

The  Hebrew.  Well? 

The  Syrian.  I  must  tell  the  Eleven  at  once.  Are  they  still  in  there? 
Everybody  must  be  told. 

The  Hebrew.  What  is  it?  Get  your  breath  and  speak. 

The  Syrian.  I  was  on  my  way  to  the  tomb.  I  met  the  Galilean 
women,  Mary  the  mother  of  Jesus,  Mary  the  mother  of  James, 
and  the  other  women.  The  younger  women  were  pale  with  excite- 
ment and  began  to  speak  all  together.  I  did  not  know  what  they 
were  saying;  but  Mary  the  mother  of  James  said  that  they  had 
been  to  the  tomb  at  daybreak  and  found  that  it  was  empty. 

The  Greek.  Ah! 

The  Hebrew.  The  tomb  cannot  be  empty.  I  will  not  believe  it. 

The  Syrian.  At  the  door  stood  a  man  all  shining,  and  cried  out  that 
Christ  had  arisen.  [Faint  drum-taps  and  the  faint  sound  of  a  rat- 
tle.] As  they  came  down  the  mountain  a  man  stood  suddenly  at 
their  side;  that  man  was  Christ  himself.  They  stooped  down  and 
kissed  his  feet.  Now  stand  out  of  my  way  that  I  may  tell  Peter  and 
James  and  John. 

The  Hebrew  [standing  before  the  curtained  entrance  of  the  inner 

room].  I  will  not  stand  out  of  the  way. 
The  Syrian.  Did  you  hear  what  I  said?  Our  master  has  arisen. 
The  Hebrew.  I  will  not  have  the  Eleven  disturbed  for  the  dreams  of 

women. 

The  Greek.  The  women  were  not  dreaming.  They  told  you  the 
truth,  and  yet  this  man  is  in  the  right.  He  is  in  charge  here.  We 
must  all  be  convinced  before  we  speak  to  the  Eleven. 

The  Syrian.  The  Eleven  will  be  able  to  judge  better  than  we. 

The  Greek.  Though  we  are  so  much  younger  we  know  more  of  the 

world  than  they  do. 
The  Hebrew.  If  you  told  your  story  they  would  no  more  believe  it 

than    I    do,   but   Peter's    misery   would    be    increased.    I   know 


THE   RESURRECTION  591 

him  longer  than  you  do  and  I  know  what  would  happen.  Peter 
would  remember  that  the  women  did  not  flinch;  that  not 
one  amongst  them  denied  her  master;  that  the  dream  proved 
their  love  and  faith.  Then  he  would  remember  that  he  had  lacked 
both,  and  imagine  that  John  was  looking  at  him.  He  would  turn 
away  and  bury  his  head  in  his  hands. 

The  Greek.  I  said  that  we  must  all  be  convinced,  but  there  is  another 
reason  why  you  must  not  tell  them  anything.  Somebody  else  is 
coming.  I  am  certain  that  Jesus  never  had  a  human  body;  that  he 
is  a  phantom  and  can  pass  through  that  wall;  that  he  will  so  pass; 
that  he  will  pass  through  this  room;  that  he  himself  will  speak 
to  the  apostles. 

The  Syrian.  He  is  no  phantom.  We  put  a  great  stone  over  the  mouth 
of  the  tomb,  and  the  women  say  that  it  has  been  rolled  back. 

The  Hebrew.  The  Romans  heard  yesterday  that  some  of  our  people 
planned  to  steal  the  body,  and  to  put  abroad  a  story  that  Christ 
had  arisen;  and  so  escape  the  shame  of  our  defeat.  They  probably 
stole  it  in  the  night. 

The  Syrian.  The  Romans  put  sentries  at  the  tomb.  The  women 
found  the  sentries  asleep.  Christ  had  put  them  asleep  that  they 
might  not  see  him  move  the  stone. 

The  Greek.  A  hand  without  bones,  without  sinews,  cannot  move  a 
stone. 

The  Syrian.  What  matter  if  it  contradicts  all  human  knowledge? — 
another  Argo  seeks  another  fleece,  another  Troy  is  sacked. 

The  Greek.  Why  are  you  laughing? 

The  Syrian.  What  is  human  knowledge? 

The  Greek.  The  knowledge  that  keeps  the  road  from  here  to  Persia 
free  from  robbers,  that  has  built  the  beautiful  humane  cities,  that 
has  made  the  modern  world,  that  stands  between  us  and  the  bar- 
barian. 

The  Syrian.  But  what  if  there  is  something  it  cannot  explain,  some- 
thing more  important  than  anything  else? 

The  Greek.  You  talk  as  if  you  wanted  the  barbarian  back. 

The  Syrian.  What  if  there  is  always  something  that  lies  outside 
knowledge,  outside  order?  What  if  at  the  moment  when  knowledge 
and  order  seem  complete  that  something  appears?  [He  has  begun 
to  laugh.] 


592  WILLIAM    BUTLER    YEATS 

The  Hebrew.   Stop   laughing. 

The  Syrian.  What  if  the  irrational  return?  What  if  the  circle  begin 
again? 

The  Hebrew.  Stop!  He  laughed  when  he  saw  Calvary  through  the 
window,  and  now  you  laugh. 

The  Greek.  He  too  has  lost  control  of  himself. 

The  Hebrew.  Stop,  I  tell  you.  [Drums  and  rattles.] 

The  Syrian.  But  I  am  not  laughing.  It  is  the  people  out  there  who 
are  laughing. 

The  Hebrew.  No,  they  are  shaking  rattles  and  beating  drums. 

The  Syrian.  I  thought  they  were  laughing.  How  horrible! 

The  Greek  [looking  out  over  heads  of  audience].  The  worshippers 
of  Dionysus  are  coming  this  way  again.  They  have  hidden  their 
image  of  the  dead  god,  and  have  begun  their  lunatic  cry,  'God  has 
arisen!  God  has  arisen!' 
(The  Musicians  who  have  been  saying  'God  has  arisen!'  fall  silent.) 

They  will  cry  'God  has  arisen!'  through  all  the  streets  of  the  city. 
They  can  make  their  god  live  and  die  at  their  pleasure;  but  why 
are  they  silent?  They  are  dancing  silently.  They  are  coming 
nearer  and  nearer,  dancing  all  the  while,  using  some  kind  of  an- 
cient step  unlike  anything  I  have  seen  in  Alexandria.  They  are  al- 
most under  the  windows  now. 

The  Hebrew.  They  have  come  back  to  mock  us,  because  their  god 
arises  every  year,  whereas  our  god  is  dead  for  ever. 

The  Greek.  How  they  roll  their  painted  eyes  as  the  dance  grows 
quicker  and  quicker!  They  are  under  the  window.  Why  are  they 
all  suddenly  motionless?  Why  are  all  those  unseeing  eyes  turned 
upon  this  house?  Is  there  anything  strange  about  this  house? 

The  Hebrew.  Somebody  has  come  into  the  room. 

The  Greek.  Where? 

The  Hebrew.  I  do  not  know;  but  I  thought  I  heard  a  step. 

The  Greek.  I  knew  that  he  would  come. 

The  Hebrew.  There  is  no  one  here.  I  shut  the  door  at  the  foot  of 
the  steps. 


THE   RESURRECTION  593 

The  Greek.  The  curtain  over  there  is  moving. 

The  Hebrew.  No,  it  is  quite  still,  and  besides  there  is  nothing  behind 
it  but  a  blank  wall. 

The  Greek.  Look,  look! 

The  Hebrew.  Yes,  it  has  begun  to  move.  [During  what  follows  he 
backs  in  terror  towards  the  left-hand  corner  of  the  stage.] 

The  Greek.  There  is  someone  coming  through  it. 

(The  figure  of  Christ  wearing  a  recognisable  but  stylistic  mask  enters  through 
the  curtain.  The  Syrian  slowly  draws  back  the  curtain  that  shuts  off  the  inner 
room  where  the  apostles  are.  The  three  young  men  are  towards  the  left  of  the 
stage,  the  figure  of  Christ  is  at  the  back  towards  the  right.) 

The  Greek.  It  is  the  phantom  of  our  master.  Why  are  you  afraid? 
He  has  been  crucified  and  buried,  but  only  in  semblance,  and  is 
among  us  once  more.  [The  Hebrew  kneels.]  There  is  nothing 
here  but  a  phantom,  it  has  no  flesh  and  blood.  Because  I  know  the 
truth  I  am  not  afraid.  Look,  I  will  touch  it.  It  may  be  hard  under 
my  hand  like  a  statue — I  have  heard  of  such  things — or  my  hand 
may  pass  through  it — but  there  is  no  flesh  and  blood.  [He  goes 
slowly  up  to  the  figure  and  passes  his  hand  over  its  side.]  The 
heart  of  a  phantom  is  beating!  The  heart  of  a  phantom  is  beating! 
[He  screams.  The  figure  of  Christ  crosses  the  stage  and  passes  into 
the  inner  room.] 

The  Syrian.  He  is  standing  in  the  midst  of  them.  Some  are  afraid.  He 
looks  at  Peter  and  James  and  John.  He  smiles.  He  has  parted  the 
clothes  at  his  side.  He  shows  them  his  side.  There  is  a  great 
wound  there.  Thomas  has  put  his  hand  into  the  wound.  He  has 
put  his  hand  where  the  heart  is. 

The  Greek.  O  Athens,  Alexandria,  Rome,  something  has  come  to  de- 
stroy you!  The  heart  of  a  phantom  is  beating!  Man  has  begun  to 
die.  Your  words  are  clear  at  last,  O  Heraclitus.  God  and  man  die 
each  other's  life,  live  each  other's  death. 


(The  Musicians  rise,  one  or  more  singing  the  following  words.  If  the  per- 
formance is  in  a  private  room  or  studio,  they  unfold  and  fold  a  curtain  as  in 
my  dance  plays;  if  at  the  Peacock  Theatre,  they  draw  the  proscenium  curtain 
across.) 


594  WILLIAM    BUTLER   YEATS 


In  pity  for  man's  darkening  thought 
He  walked  that  room  and  issued  thence 
In  Galilean  turbulence; 
The  Babylonian  starlight  brought 
A  fabulous,  formless  darkness  in; 
Odour  of  blood  when  Christ  was  slain 
Made  all  Platonic  tolerance  vain 
And  vain  all  Doric  discipline. 


II 


Everything  that  man  esteems 
Endures  a  moment  or  a  day. 
Love's  pleasure  drives  his  love  away, 
The  painter's  brush  consumes  his  dreams; 
The  herald's  cry,  the  soldier's  tread 
Exhaust  his  glory  and  his  might: 
Whatever  flames  upon  the  night 
Man's  own  resinous  heart  has  fed. 


NOTES  ON  THE  AUTHORS 


AE  (George  Russell)  was  born  in  Lurgan,  County  Armagh,  April  10,  1867. 
Like  Yeats,  with  whom  he  attended  The  High  School,  Dublin,  AE's  early  in- 
terests in  painting  and  the  esoteric  remained  with  him  for  the  rest  of  his  life. 
But  as  secretary  and  chief  organizer  of  the  Irish  Agricultural  Organization  So- 
ciety and  editor  of  the  leading  Irish  agricultural  journal,  The  Irish  Homestead, 
which  later  merged  with  The  Irish  Statesman,  AE  became  an  agricultural  econ- 
omist whose  books  Cooperation  and  Nationality  1912  and  The  National  Being 
1916  were  read  by  Gandhi  and  had  influence  upon  The  New  Deal  through 
Henry  Wallace,  then  Secretary  of  Commerce.  However,  it  was  as  a  poet  and 
a  discoverer  of  poets  that  AE  achieved  his  significance  in  the  Literary  Revival. 
The  performance  of  his  play  Deirdre,  along  with  Yeats'  Cathleen  Ni  Houlihan, 
by  The  Irish  National  Theatre  Society  in  1902  marks  the  real  beginning  of  the 
Irish  national  theatre.  His  biographer,  John  Eglinton,  tells  us  that  AE  got  his 
famous  nom  de  plume  when  a  compositor  had  difficulty  in  making  out  the  word 
AEON  with  which  Russell  had  signed  an  article.  Although  AE  worked  for  most 
of  his  life  in  the  public  eye  as  journalist,  agrarian  economist,  and  agricultural 
organizer,  his  poems,  with  few  exceptions,  are  private  in  their  subject  matter 
and  subtle  in  their  method.  In  explaining  why  he  did  not  include  a  personal 
description  of  AE  in  Hail  and  Farewell,  along  with  the  portraits  of  other  famous 
Dubliners  of  the  time,  George  Moore  said  that  AE  'exists  rather  in  one's  imagi- 
nation, dreams,  sentiments,  feelings,  than  in  one's  ordinary  sight  and  hearing, 
and  try  as  I  will  to  catch  the  fleeting  outlines,  they  escape  me;  and  all  I  remem- 
ber are  the  long  gray,  pantheistic  eyes  that  have  looked  so  often  into  my  soul 
and  with  such  a  kindly  gaze/  AE  died  in  Bournemouth,  England,  July  17, 
1935.  His  Collected  Poems  was  published  in  1927  and  Selected  Poems  in  1933. 

MARGARET  BARRINGTON  (Mrs.  Liam  O'Flaherty),  born  in  1896,  was  edu- 
cated at  the  Royal  School,  Dungannon,  Co.  Tyrone,  and  at  Trinity  College, 
Dublin.  Her  first  husband  was  Professor  Edmund  Curtis,  the  celebrated  Irish 
historian.  In  1926,  after  her  divorce,  she  married  Liam  O'Flaherty,  by  whom 
she  has  one  daughter.  The  author  of  one  novel,  Look  Ever  Northward,  she  is 
by  profession  a  free-lance  journalist  and  has  written  for  Irish,  English,  and 
American  newspapers  and  periodicals.  Her  varied  and  original  short  stories  have 
never  been  collected.  She  now  lives  a,  quiet  country  life  at  Castletownshend, 
Co.  Cork  (also  the  home  of  Edith  GE.  Somerville),  where  she  can  indulge  her 
tastes  for  walking,  collecting  wild  flowers,  bird-watching  and  fishing. 

ELIZABETH  BOWEN  was  born  in  Dublin  on  June  7,  1899.  Her  barrister 
father  came  from  an  Anglo-Irish  Cork  family,  whose  ancestral  home,  Bowen's 
Court,  was  built  in  the  18th  century  upon  land  given  to  the  first  Bowen  for  his 
services  to  Cromwell  a  century  earlier.  Elizabeth  Bowen's  home  for  most  of  her 
youth  was  Dublin,  but  she  went  to  school  in  Kent,  and  spent  most  of  her  sum- 

595 


596  NOTES   ON   THE    AUTHORS 

mers  and  holidays  in  Cork.  She  began  to  write  seriously  when  she  was  nineteen. 
She  has  for  some  time  lived  in  London  with  her  husband  Alan  Cameron,  but 
still  vacations  annually  in  Cork.  Her  best-known  novels  are  To  the  North  1932, 
The  House  in  Paris  1936,  The  Death  of  the  Heart  1939;  her  latest  is  The  Heat 
of  the  Day  1950.  Look  at  All  Those  Roses  1941  and  Ivy  Gripped  the  Steps 
1945  are  collections  of  her  short  stories.  Bowens  Court  1942  is  the  story  of  her 
family,  centered  on  the  family  estate  in  Cork. 

SHAN  F.  BULLOCK — christened  John  William— was  born  1865,  the  eldest  son 
of  Thomas  Bullock,  Killynick  House,  Co.  Fermanagh.  Though  his  father  later 
became  a  Justice  of  the  Peace,  he  was  no  landlord,  but  a  farmer,  and  a  strug- 
gling one  for  all  his  large  holding.  Young  Bullock  was  educated  at  Farra  School, 
Co.  Westmeath;  failed  the  Entrance  Examination  to  Trinity  College,  Dublin; 
tried  a  year's  farming;  and  entered  the  British  Civil  Service  in  1884.  The  rest 
of  his  life  was  passed  in  London.  In  1889  he  married  Emma  Mitchell,  by  whom 
he  had  a  son  and  a  daughter.  1893  saw  the  publication  of  his  first  book,  The 
Awkward  Squads,  a  collection  of  short  stories,  while  his  first  novel,  By  Thrasna 
River,  followed  in  1895.  In  all,  he  wrote  over  20  books;  most  were  novels  and 
tales  about  County  Fermanagh  and  the  shores  of  lovely  Upper  Lough  Erne, 
the  last  being  The  Loughsiders  1924.  He  returned  yet  again  to  his  life-long 
subject-matter  in  After  Sixty  Years  1930,  a  memoir  of  his  Fermanagh  days.  He 
remained  a  civil  servant  until  his  retirement,  being  a  member  of  the  Secretariat 
at  the  Irish  Convention,  Dublin,  1917-18.  In  recognition  of  his  faithful  service, 
he  was  made  a  member  of  the  Order  of  the  British  Empire  before  1925;  just 
before  his  death  in  1935  he  was  elected  to  the  Irish  Academy  of  Letters. 

AUSTIN  CLARKE  was  born  in  Dublin  in  1896,  his  family  on  both  sides  having 
lived  there  for  generations.  Like  James  Joyce,  he  received  his  secondary  educa- 
tion from  the  Jesuits  at  Belvedere  College,  Dublin,  where  his  experiences  were 
rather  similar  to  those  described  in  A  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a  Young  Man. 
Still  following  in  Joyce's  steps,  he  graduated  B.A.  from  University  College,  Dub- 
lin, where  he  was  taught  Irish  by  Douglas  Hyde  and  heard  of  the  Literary  Re- 
vival from  Thomas  MacDonagh,  one  of  the  signers  of  the  Proclamation  of  the 
Irish  Republic  in  Easter  Week,  1916.  MacDonagh  was  executed  by  the  British 
for  his  part  in  the  Rising,  and  Clarke  succeeded  him  as  Lecturer  in  English  at 
U.C.D.  Encouraged  and  helped  by  AE,  he  published  his  first  book,  The  Venge- 
ance of  Fionn,  a  long  narrative  poem,  in  1917.  Some  years  later  he  found  himself 
in  London  earning  a  fugitive  livelihood  as  a  critic  and  reviewer  for  the  more 
intelligent  newspapers  and  periodicals.  In  1937  he  returned  to  Ireland  for  good, 
settling  in  Templeogue,  a  village  close  to  Dublin.  He  has  since  organized  the 
Dublin  Verse  Speaking  Society  and  the  Lyric  Theatre;  the  former  gives  weekly 
broadcasts  of  verse  on  Radio  Eireann,  while  the  latter  keeps  alive  the  tradition 
of  Irish  verse  drama.  His  early  lyric  and  narrative  poetry  will  be  found  in  Col- 
lected Poems  1936.  Since  his  return  to  Ireland,  dramatic  poetry  for  stage  and 
radio  has  almost  monopolized  his  creative  powers;  Sister  Eucharia  1939,  Black 
Fast  1941,  As  the  Crow  Flies  1943,  The  Viscount  of  Blarney  and  Other  Plays 
1944,  have  all  appeared  in  small,  semi-private  editions,  as  has  Night  and  Morn- 
ing 1938,  his  most  recent  volume  of  lyrics.  More  than  any  other  writer  he  has 
made  medieval  Ireland — with  its  comedies  and  tragedies  of  conscience— his 
creative  theme,  always  casting  a  sly  glance  at  modern  Ireland  the  while.  His 
two  published  novels,  The  Bright  Temptation  1932  and  The  Singing-Men  at 
Cashel  1936,  complement  his  poetry  in  this  respect;  he  has  just  written  a  third. 


NOTES    ON   THE    AUTHORS  597 

PADRAIC  COLUM  was  born  in  the  town  of  Longford,  1881,  son  of  the 
master  of  the  local  workhouse.  He  grew  up  in  Dun  Laoghaire,  Co.  Dublin, 
receiving  his  education  in  National  Schools.  His  first  poems  were  published 
in  Arthur  Griffith's  United  Irishman,  and  his  first  play,  Broken  Soil,  was  first 
performed  on  December  3,  1903,  by  the  Irish  Literary  Theatre.  The  Land 
followed  at  the  Abbey  in  1905  and  Thomas  Muskerry  in  1910.  The  patient 
realism  of  these  three  plays  has  won  their  author  a  permanent  place  in 
the  history  of  the  Irish  theatre,  but  it  is  as  a  lyric  poet  that  he  has  won  world- 
wide recognition.  Wild  Earth  1907  contains  most  of  his  best-known  poems, 
though  he  has  published  many  volumes  since.  In  1912  he  married  Mary  Maguire, 
who  as  Mary  Colum  has  become  a  well-known  author  and  critic.  An  aunt  of 
his  in  Pittsburgh  asked  them  to  visit  her  for  their  honeymoon,  but  they  did 
not  take  up  her  offer  until  August  1914.  Mr.  Colum  found  his  lecturing  engage- 
ments multiplying,  America  entered  the  war,  and  ultimately  it  was  1922  before 
they  returned  to  Ireland — for  a  visit  only.  The  King  of  Ireland's  Son  1916  was 
the  first  of  a  long  line  of  books  by  Padraic  Colum  retelling  old  tales  for 
children  and  adults;  these  led  to  his  being  invited  to  Hawaii  in  1923  to  collect 
the  Island  legends  and  retell  them  in  the  same  way.  The  years  1930-33  were 
spent  mainly  in  England  and  France,  and  there  have  been  vacation  visits  to  Ire- 
land and  elsewhere,  but  the  Colums  have  in  effect  been  residents  of  the  U.S. 
since  1914.  They  have  written,  they  have  lectured,  they  have  taught  at  Columbia 
and  the  University  of  Miami.  Among  the  more  important  prose  works  of 
Mr.  Colum's  American  phase  are  a  novel,  Castle  Conquer  1923,  and  The  Road 
Round  Ireland  1926.  He  and  his  wife  now  make  their  home  in  New  York 
for  most  of  the  year. 

JAMES  CONNOLLY  was  born  in  Clones,  County  Monaghan,  in  1870,  but 
spent  his  childhood  and  early  youth  in  Edinburgh,  Scotland,  where  he  earned 
his  living  from  the  age  of  eleven.  He  returned  to  Ireland  as  a  Socialist  organizer 
and  founded  in  1896  the  Irish  Socialist  Republican  Party.  In  America  from 
1903  to  1910  he  worked  as  an  organizer  for  the  IWW  and  the  Socialist  Labor 
Party.  He  returned  to  Ireland  in  1910  and  became  the  editor  of  the  first  Socialist 
newspaper  to  be  published  in  Ireland,  The  Workers'  Republic.  A  student  of 
revolution  for  most  of  his  life,  he  became  the  spokesman  of  Irish  revolutionary 
ideals  in  the  labor  movement.  In  1913  he  was  in  Ulster,  working  as  an  organizer 
for  the  Irish  Transport  and  General  Workers  Union,  when  he  was  summoned 
to  aid  Jim  Larkin  in  directing  the  great  Dublin  strike.  Out  of-  the  strike  came 
the  Irish  Citizen  Army  which  he  and  Larkin  organized.  When  his  famous  edi- 
torial 'What  Is  Our  Programme?'  came  out  in  The  Workers'  Republic  on  Janu- 
ary 22,  1916,  Connolly's  demands  for  an  immediate  rising,  'the  time  for  Ireland's 
Battle  is  NOW,  the  place  for  Ireland's  Battle  is  HERE,'  so  embarrased  the 
Supreme  Council  of  the  Irish  Republican  Brotherhood,  who  were  laying  plans 
for  Easter  Week,  that  Connolly  was  kidnapped  and  sworn  in  as  a  member  of 
the  Military  Council  and  the  plans  were  revealed  to  him  so  that  he  should  pre- 
serve a  discreet  silence  thenceforward.  He  and  Pearse,  more  than  any  others, 
emerged  as  the  dominant  figures  of  the  Easter  Week  Rising,  for  his  part  in 
which  he  was  executed  by  the  British  on  May  13,  1916.  Connolly  was  aware  of 
the  apparent  inconsistency  in  his  dual  role  of  nationalist  and  socialist,  for  he 
said  to  his  daughter  the  night  before  his  execution.  'The  Socialists  will  never 
understand  why  I  am  here.  They  forget  I  am  an  Irishman.' 

MYLES  na  gCOPALEEN  ( Myles  of  the  Little  Horses )  and  FLANN  O'BRIEN 
are  two  of  the  pseudonyms  of  BRIAN  O'NOLAN  (or  in  Gaelic  6  NUALLAIN), 
born  1912  in  Co.  Tyrone.  At  23,  having  graduated  from  University  College, 


598  NOTES    ON   THE    AUTHORS 

Dublin,  he  entered  the  Irish  Civil  Service  and  became  a  permanent  resident  of 
Dublin.  The  publication  of  At  Swim-Two-Birds  1939  under  the  pseudonym 
Flann  O'Brien  gained  him  little  fame  at  home  or  abroad,  though  this  extrava- 
ganza seemed  to  some  readers  a  perfect  blend  of  the  techniques  of  Stephens  and 
Joyce.  In  1940,  however,  the  supposedly  conservative  Irish  Times  employed 
him,  as  Myles  na  gCopaleen  (the  name  of  a  character  in  Gerald  Griffin's  The 
Collegians),  to  write  a  daily  humorous  column  in  Gaelic.  His  puns  and  neolo- 
gisms horrified  the  Simon  Pures  of  the  Gaelic  League,  but  delighted  many  who 
were  tired  of  the  humorless  platitudes  that  had  hitherto  passed  for  Gaelic  jour- 
nalism. In  time  the  column  came  to  be  half-English,  half-Gaelic,  and  then 
wholly  English.  It  now  appears  thrice  weekly,  in  English.  An  officer  of  the 
Department  of  Local  Government  and  Public  Health,  O'Nolan  was  private  sec- 
retary to  the  Minister,  Mr.  Sean  MacEntee,  until  the  fall  of  Mr.  DeValera's 
government  in  1948.  His  publications  as  Myles  na  gCopaleen  include:  Cruiskeen 
Lawn,  a  bilingual  selection  from  his  column  of  the  same  name;  An  Beat  Bocht 
(The  Poor  Mouth),  a  Gaelic  parody  of  such  autobiographies  as  Maurice  O'Sul- 
livan's  Twenty  Years  A-Growing;  and  Faustus  Kelly,  a  play  about  an  Irish 
politician  who  sells  himself  to  the  Devil,  first  performed  at  the  Abbey  Theatre, 
January  25,  1943.  Mr.  O'Nolan  is  married  and  lives  in  Blackrock,  a  suburb  of 
Dublin.  For  other  facts  (and  fables)  about  this  author  see  Time  magazine, 
August  23,  1943. 

DANIEL  CORKERY,  born  1878  in  Cork  City,  has  spent  his  entire  life  there  or 
in  the  surrounding  County  of  Cork.  He  was  educated  by  the  Presentation  Broth- 
ers and  became  a  National  School  (elementary  school)  teacher  in  1898.  In  1922, 
having  studied  art  in  his  spare  time  for  some  years,  he  became  an  art  teacher 
under  the  County  Cork  Technical  Education  Committee.  Later  he  organized 
Gaelic  classes  under  the  same  committee.  From  1931  to  1947  he  was  Professor 
of  English  at  University  College,  Cork,  receiving  on  his  retirement  the  degree 
of  Doctor  of  Literature  of  the  National  University  of  Ireland.  In  his  early 
twenties  he  joined  the  Gaelic  League,  learned  Gaelic,  and  then  began  to  teach  it 
to  other  enthusiasts.  In  1909  he  founded  the  Cork  Dramatic  Society,  which  pro- 
posed to  write  all  its  own  plays  as  well  as  perform  them.  Corkery,  who  had 
written  nothing  but  verse  previously,  wrote  King  and  Hermit  in  a  great  hurry  to 
round  out  an  evening  of  one-act  plays.  In  1912  he  began  his  only  novel,  The 
Threshold  of  Quiet  1917,  which  may  well  be  his  masterpiece;  at  present  he  is 
better  known  for  his  volumes  of  short  stories — A  Munster  Twilight  1916,  The 
Hounds  of  Banba  1920  (stories  of  the  Anglo-Irish  War),  The  Stormy  Hills  1929, 
Earth  Out  of  Earth  1939.  The  Abbey  Theatre  has  performed  three  of  his  plays — 
The  Labour  Leader  1919,  The  Yellow  Bittern  1920,  and  Fohnam  the  Sculptor 
1939.  The  Hidden  Ireland:  A  Study  of  Gaelic  Munster  in  the  Eighteenth  Cen- 
tury 1925  won  him  a  unique  place  among  modern  Irishmen  as  a  literary  historian 
and  critic;  Synge  and  Anglo-Irish  Literature  1931,  a  much  more  controversial 
Work,  in  no  way  reduced  his  stature.  A  bachelor,  Dr.  Corkery  lives  with  his 
sister  in  a  suburb  of  Cork  and  spends  much  of  his  summers  in  the  country 
sketching  landscapes  in  water  colors.  This  brief  biography  must  not  conclude 
without  a  reference  to  Dr.  Corkery's  influence,  both  directly  and  through  his 
writings,  on  such  younger  Corkmen  as  Sean  O'Faolain,  Frank  O'Connor,  and  the 
gifted  sculptor  Seamus  Murphy,  author  of  Stone  Mad. 

OLIVER  ST  JOHN  GOGARTY  was  born  in  Dublin  on  August  17,  1878.  He 
was  educated  at  Stonyhurst  and  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  from  which  he  received 
his  medical  degree.  Despite  his  fame  as  one  of  Dublin's  better-known  surgeons, 


NOTES   ON   THE   AUTHORS  599 

and  his  fourteen  years  of  service  as  a  Free  State  Senator,  Gogarty  has  become 
known  to  a  wider  audience  as  one  of  Dublin's  foremost  wits.  A  friend  of  Joyce, 
Moore,  AE,  and  Yeats,  Gogarty  was  in  fact  known  as  a  literary  man  long  before 
he  actually  published  his  first  book  of  poems  when  he  was  in  his  forties.  Conse- 
quently it  is  no  surprise  that  Moore  named  the  hero  of  The  Lake  after  Gogarty 
— to  irritate  Gogarty 's  mother,  it  was  rumored — and  that  Joyce  modelled  Buck 
Mulligan  in  Ulysses  upon  Gogarty.  Although  his  ability  as  a  poet  is  without 
question,  his  best-known  work,  As  I  Was  Going  Down  Sackville  Street  1937,  is 
a  hilarious  account  of  life  in  Dublin  which  has  established  his  reputation  as  a 
wit,  a  raconteur,  and  a  man  whose  ability  to  quote  Greek  poetry  lends  truth 
to  the  remark  that  he  tried  to  Hellenize  Ireland.  Recently  he  has  retired  from 
medical  practice  and  lives  in  the  United  States.  He  has  continued  to  write 
novels,  articles  about  Ireland,  and  reminiscences  of  Yeats,  AE,  and  Joyce. 

LADY  ISABELLA  AUGUSTA  GREGORY  was  born  in  Roxborough,  County 
Galway,  March  5,  1852.  She  was  a  widow  in  her  forties  with  a  son  at  Har- 
row when,  through  her  neighbor  Edward  Martyn,  she  met  Moore  and  Yeats 
and  was  drawn  into  their  plans  for  founding  The  Irish  Literary  Theatre.  By 
the  time  the  group  had  gone  through  two  reorganizations,  in  1903  and  1905, 
Moore  and  Martyn  had  withdrawn  completely  and  Lady  Gregory  had  assumed 
a  position  in  the  dramatic  movement  that  was  second  in  importance  only  to 
Yeats'.  In  fact  from  1905,  when  she  became  co-director  with  Yeats  and  Synge 
of  the  Abbey  Theatre,  until  her  death  in  May  23,  1932,  the  practical  business 
of  managing  the  theatre  and  establishing  its  policies  was  as  much  hers  as  Yeats'. 
In  addition  to  her  business  contribution  to  the  Abbey  Theatre,  she  wrote  over 
thirty  short  plays  and  adaptations  for  it  and  she  encouraged  numerous  young 
dramatists,  notably  Sean  O'Casey.  But  Lady  Gregory's  influence  upon  the  Liter- 
ary Revival  was  broader  than  her  contributions  to  the  dramatic  movement.  Her 
popular  retellings  in  Kiltartan  dialect  of  the  traditional  stories  centering  upon 
Ireland's  two  great  epic  heroes,  Cuchulain  and  Finn,  in  Cuchidain  of  Muir- 
themne  1902  and  Gods  and  Fighting  Men  1904,  gave  the  early  writers  of  the 
Revival  what  one  of  them  (J.  M.  Synge)  described  as  'part  of  my  daily  bread, 
It  may  be  said  that  in  Standish  O'Grady's  histories  of  bardic  Ireland,  Douglas 
Hyde's  translations  of  the  love  songs  of  Connacht,  and  Lady  Gregory's  books 
on  Ireland's  heroic  past,  the  Literary  Revival  had  its  origin. 

DOUGLAS  HYDE,  born  at  French  Park,  Co.  Roscommon,  in  1862,  was  the 
third  son  of  the  Rev.  Arthur  Hyde,  Canon  of  Elphin.  He  received  a  classical 
education  from  his  father  at  home,  learned  Gaelic  from  his  father's  workmen 
and  others,  and  entered  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  with  the  intention  of  becoming 
a  clergyman  like  his  father,  grandfather,  great-grandfather  and  great-great- 
grandfather. However,  he  gave  up  that  idea,  graduated  B.A.  in  1884  at  the  top 
of  his  class,  and  went  on  to  take  the  Doctor  of  Laws  degree.  Next  he  taught 
English  Literature  and  studied  the  American  Indian  in  Canada  for  a  year. 
Shortly  after  his  return  to  Ireland  he  met  and  married  a  German  girl,  Lucy 
Kurtz.  In  1893  he  founded  the  Gaelic  League,  of  which  he  remained  President 
until  1915,  when  he  resigned  because  he  felt  the  League  had  ceased  to  be  non- 
political.  In  1901  the  League  battled  to  obtain  a  permanent  place  for  Gaelic  in 
Irish  secondary  education;  by  1908  it  had  reached  its  peak  of  550  branches;  in 
1909  Gaelic  was  made  compulsory  for  matriculation  at  the  new  National  Uni- 
versity of  Ireland  through  the  League's  efforts.  Hyde  had  spent  more  than  six 
months  in  the  United  States  in  1905-6  collecting  over  $60,000  for  the  League. 
From  1909  to  1932  he  was  Professor  of  Modern  Irish  at  University  College, 


600  NOTES    ON   THE    AUTHORS 

Dublin;  then  he  retired  and  moved  from  Dublin  to  Ratra,  the  house  at  French 
Park  presented  to  him  by  his  admirers  after  the  American  tour.  Having  been 
twice  an  Irish  Free  State  Senator,  he  was  nominated  in  May  1938,  by  both  the 
leading  Irish  parties,  for  the  post  of  First  President  of  Ireland.  In  spite  of  ill- 
health  he  served  the  full  seven-year  term,  retired  again  to  Ratra,  and  died  there 
in  July  1949.  The  majority  of  his  writings  are  in  Gaelic,  and  include  original 
poetry  and  plays,  besides  editions  of  folk-tales  and  folk  poetry.  The  translations 
from  Gaelic  poetry  in  Love  Songs  of  Connacht  1893,  Songs  Ascribed  to  Raftery 
1903,  and  The  Religious  Songs  of  Connacht  1906  are  extremely  important.  Many 
other  translations  appear  in  his  A  Literary  History  of  Ireland  1899.  His  Casadh 
an  tSugdin  (The  Twisting  of  the  Rope)  was  the  first  Gaelic  play  performed  by 
the  Irish  Literary  Theatre.  Lady  Gregory  translated  or  adapted  this  and  others 
of  his  one- act  plays;  The  Workhouse  Ward  is  the  best-known.  His  literal  render- 
ing of  Gaelic  idioms  in  Love  Songs  of  Connacht  showed  the  way  to  Lady 
Gregory  and  Synge. 

JAMES  JOYCE  was  born  in  Rathgar,  a  Dublin  suburb,  on  February  2,  1882. 
His  father,  John  Stanislaus  Joyce,  is  described  in  A  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a 
Young  Man  as  'a  medical  student,  an  oarsman,  a  tenor,  an  amateur  actor,  a 
shouting  politician,  a  small  landlord,  a  small  investor,  a  drinker,  a  good  fellow, 
a  storyteller,  somebody's  secretary,  something  in  a  distillery,  a  taxgatherer,  a 
bankrupt  and  at  present  a  praiser  of  his  own  past,'  a  description  which  would 
seem  to  be  factual.  Joyce's  formal  education  at  Clongowes  Wood  College,  Belve- 
dere College,  and  University  College,  Dublin,  was  at  the  hands  of  the  Jesuits, 
a  fact  which  explains  his  indoctrination  in  Thomistic  philosophy.  In  1904  the 
young  Joyce  left  Ireland  for  good,  and  for  the  rest  of  his  life  lived  in  Italy, 
Switzerland,  and  France.  He  worked  as  a  teacher  in  a  Berlitz  school  in  Trieste, 
but  later  accepted  contributions  from  friends  in  order  to  support  his  family.  His 
first  book,  Dubliners,  a  collection  of  short  stories  about  his  native  city,  was 
published  in  1914  only  after  years  of  heartbreaking  disappointments  at  the  hands 
of  publishers  who  objected  to  his  realism.  His  only  play,  Exiles  1918,  was  writ- 
ten in  the  same  naturalistic  style  as  Dubliners  and  was  imitative  of  Ibsen,  Joyce's 
first  model.  In  A  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a  Young  Man  1916  Joyce  attempted, 
for  the  first  time  and  on  a  simple  scale,  the  stream-of-consciousness  method 
which  he  was  to  perfect  in  Ulysses  1922  and  which,  among  other  things,  was  to 
stamp  him  as  unquestionably  the  foremost  technician  among  modern  novelists. 
His  last  work,  Finnegans  Wake,  published  two  years  before  his  death  in  Zurich 
on  January  13,  1941,  has  been  called  the  most  original,  if  the  least  comprehen- 
sible, of  modern  novels.  In  it  Joyce  was  apparently  attempting  to  invade  not 
just  the  dreamworld  of  the  individual  but  the  collective  unconscious  of  the  race. 

PATRICK  KAVANAGH  was  born  some  forty  years  ago  in  County  Monaghan 
in  a  townland  called  Mucker,  a  corrupted  Gaelic  word,  he  writes,  meaning  a 
place  where  pigs  breed  in  abundance.  His  father  was  a  shoe-maker,  but  Patrick 
and  his  brothers  worked  the  farm.  At  eighteen  he  won  fourth  place  in  a  poetry 
competition  in  the  Weekly  Independent.  In  1939  he  went  to  London  where  he 
was  befriended  by  Helen  Waddell,  who  encouraged  him  to  write  his  first  book, 
an  autobiography,  The  Green  Fool  1939,  which  he  now  claims  is  less  factual 
than  his  novel  Tarry  Flynn  1948.  His  volume  of  verse,  A  Soul  for  Sale 
1949,  contains  his  chief  work,  the  long  narrative  poem  'The  Great  Hun- 
ger.' He  lives  in  Dublin  where  he  writes  tart  criticisms  of  his  contemporaries 
and  has  contributed  the  'Diary'  to  Envoy  magazine.  His  poem  'The  Paddiad,' 


NOTES   ON   THE   AUTHORS  601 

which  appeared  in  Horizon,  August,  1949,  is  a  Popean  satire  on  contemporary 
Irish  letters. 

MICHAEL  McLAVERTY  was  born  in  Monaghan,  1907,  but  his  family  had 
to  migrate  from  the  country  to  the  city  of  Belfast  while  he  was  still  a  child;  the 
experience  provided  him  with  the  theme  of  his  first  novel,  Lost  Fields.  Part  of 
his  boyhood  was  spent  on  Rathlin  Island,  off  the  coast  of  County  Antrim.  He 
received  his  secondary  education  at  St.  Malachy's  College,  Belfast,  and  then 
entered  Queen's  University  in  the  same  city,  where  he  studied  Mathematics 
and  Experimental  Physics,  taking  his  Master  of  Science  degree  in  1933.  The 
same  year  saw  the  publication  of  his  first  short  story.  He  became  a  school- 
teacher in  Belfast,  but  has  found  time  to  write  four  novels,  each  of  which 
has  contributed  its  share  to  a  steadily  growing  reputation;  the  last  two  are 
In  This  Thy  Day  1945  and  The  Three  Brothers  1948;  all  have  been  published 
in  America.  His  output  of  short  stories  is  small,  but  their  exceptionally  high 
quality  has  been  recognized  by  Edward  J.  O'Brien  and  several  other  antholo- 
gists; see  The  Game  Cock  and  Other  Stories  1947.  After  the  editors  had  chosen 
'Six  Weeks  On  and  Two  Ashore'  for  the  present  collection,  Mr.  McLaverty 
wrote  to  say  that  he  felt  it  was  one  of  the  best  of  his  short  stories  so  far.  If 
has  not  been  previously  published  in  the  U.S.A.  Mr.  McLaverty  is  unique  among 
the  authors  included  here  in  that  he  is  the  only  Roman  Catholic  who  con- 
tinues to  make  his  home  in  Northern  Ireland. 

GEORGE  MOORE  was  born  on  February  24,  1852  at  Moore  Hall,  County 
Mayo.  His  family  were  Catholic,  had  been  in  Ireland  since  the  end  of  the 
17th  century,  and  had  some  claim  to  descent,  in  the  male  line,  from  Saint 
Thomas  More.  The  latest  heir  to  Moore  Hall  became  an  absentee  landlord  be- 
cause he  was  interested  in  an  artistic  career  removed  from  the  turbulent  Ire- 
land of  Land  League  days.  An  unsuccessful  period  as  art  student  in  Paris, 
where  he  arrived  in  1873  with  an  Irish  valet,  was  not  without  value  since  it 
enabled  him  to  meet  a  good  many  of  the  great  Impressionist  artists  and  gave 
him  the  background  for  writing,  twenty  years  later,  some  very  respectable  art 
criticism,  as  well  as  sensitive  impressions  of  Monet,  Manet,  Degas,  Renoir,  and 
Pissarro.  For  most  of  his  adult  life  Moore  lived  in  London;  and  when  he, 
Yeats,  and  Edward  Martyn  decided  in  1898  to  found  an  Irish  theatre  and  to 
initiate  a  new  literary  movement,  he  was  the  only  one  of  the  founders  who 
had  an  established  literary  reputation  both  in  England  and  on  the  continent.  He 
had  by  that  time  written  A  Drama  in  Muslin  1886,  Confessions  of  a  Young  Man 
1888,  Impressions  and  Opinions  1891,  Modern  Painting  1893,  and  the  famous 
Esther  Waters  1894.  From  1901  to  1910  he  lived  in  Dublin  and  wrote  his 
volume  of  short  stories  The  Unfilled  Field  1903,  his  sensitive  novel  The  Lake 
1905,  and  his  masterpiece,  the  three- volume  unofficial  history  of  the  early 
years  of  the  Literary  Revival,  Hail  and  Farewell  1911-1914.  In  addition  to 
these  books,  which  represent  a  peak  in  prose  writing  for  the  Revival,  Moore's 
contribution  to  the  movement  must  be  measured  by  the  fact  that  the  influence 
upon  later  Irish  novelists  of  such  European  writers  as  Dujardin  and  the  Rus- 
sians, notably  Moore's  master  Turgeniev,  must  be  largely  attributed  to  him. 
He  died  in  London,  January  21,  1933. 

SEAN  O'CASEY  was  born  of  Protestant  parents  in  the  slums  of  Dublin  in  1880. 
In  his  autobiography  O'Casey  tells  a  grim  story  of  a  boyhood  full  of  bitterness 
and  humiliation  engendered  by  poverty,   ill  health,  notably  weak  eyes,   and 


b'02  NOTES    ON   THE   AUTHORS 

hard  work  as  a  pick-and-shovel  laborer,  dock  worker,  and  hod-carrier.  As  a 
young  man  in  Dublin  he  was  fully  aware  of  the  Abbey  Theatre,  but  had 
actually  been  in  it  to  see  a  play  only  twice  before  he  went  to  see  the  per- 
formance of  his  own  The  Shadow  of  a  Gunman.  'The  fact  is,'  he  writes,  'I 
couldn't  afford  to  pay  for  a  seat.  My  pay  for  the  full  week's  work  then,  from 
six  in  the  morning  till  five  in  the  evening,  was  nineteen  shillings,  three  and  a  half 
pence.  Out  of  that  I  had  to  keep  myself  and  mother,  pay  subs  to  Gaelic  League, 
the  IRB,  plus  "rifle  levy"  and  Irish  Freedom  levy — Irish  Freedom  was  the 
monthly  paper  of  the  movement — supply  myself  with  hurleys,  and  pay  subs 
to  the  Hurling  Club;  so  you  can  guess  how  much  money  I  had  to  spare,  not  to 
mention  the  buying  of  an  odd  book  in  Gaelic  and  English.'  After  writing 
three  realistic  plays  of  Dublin  slum  life,  The  Shadow  of  a  Gunman,  Juno  and 
the  Paycock,  and  The  Plough  and  the  Stars,  and  seeing  them  performed  at 
the  Abbey  respectively  in  1923,  1924,  and  1926,  O'Casey  turned  to  symbolism 
and  expressionism  with  The  Silver  Tassie.  When  Yeats  and  his  fellow  directors 
of  the  Abbey  rejected  it,  O'Casey,  who  had  just  moved  to  London,  decided 
to  offer  no  more  of  his  work  to  the  Abbey  Theatre.  From  that  point  on  in  his 
career  he  has  followed  in  the  same  direction  of  symbolism  and  fantasy.  Most 
of  his  subsequent  plays,  Within  the  Gates,  The  Star  Turns  Red,  Purple  Dust, 
Red  Roses  for  Me,  Oak  Leaves  and  Lavender,  and  Cock  A  Doodle  Dandy 
are  expressionistic  in  method.  Except  for  Within  the  Gates,  which  had  a  suc- 
cessful New  York  run  in  1934,  none  of  his  later  plays  has  had  the  success  or 
drawn  the  critical  acclaim  that  was  given  to  his  early  work.  But  his  finest 
writing  since  he  left  Ireland  in  the  late  twenties  has  unquestionably  been  his 
four  volumes  of  highly  imaginative  autobiography,  I  Knock  at  the  Door, 
Pictures  in  the  Hallway,  Drums  Under  the  Window,  and  Inishfallen  Fare 
Thee  Well.  These  books,  obviously  written  under  the  influence  of  the  stream  of 
|  consciousness,  with  their  brilliantly  subjective  style  and  outlook,  are  a  justifica- 
tion of  O'Casey 's  desertion  of  his  early  style. 

FRANK  O'CONNOR  (Michael  O'Donovan)  was  born  in  Cork  City  in  1903. 
Like  his  fellow  Corkonian  Sean  O'Faolain,  with  whom  he  is  often  linked, 
O'Connor  was  drawn  into  the  troubles  as  a  Republican  and  spent  some  time  in 
an  Irish  Free  State  jail,  where  he  studied  Irish  and  became  proficient  enough 
to  write,  on  his  release,  a  prize-winning  study  of  Turgeniev  in  Irish.  AE  gave 
O'Connor  his  first  real  chance,  however,  when  he  published  some  of  his  poems, 
stories,  and  translations  in  The  Irish  Statesman.  A  director  of  the  Abbey  Theatre 
until  1939,  O'Connor  was  dismissed  by  his  associate  directors  in  a  policy 
squabble  in  which  he  refused  to  yield  to  the  demands  of  the  Gaelic  enthusiasts 
who  wanted  to  use  the  theatre  as  a  propagandist  device  for  furthering  the 
government's  language  program.  This  incident,  plus  his  brush  with  the  govern- 
ment censors,  who  banned  his  translation  of  Brian  Merriman's  bawdy  eighteenth- 
century  poem  The  Midnight  Court,  possibly  accounts  for  O'Connor's  waspish 
attitude  toward  Ireland  evident  in  his  latest  books,  The  Common  Chord  1948, 
Leinster,  Munster  and  Connaught  1950  and  Travellers  Samples  1951.  O'Con- 
nor's fine  translations  from  the  Irish  include  The  Wild  Bird's  Nest  1932,  Three 
Old  Brothers  and  Other  Poems  1936,  Lords  and  Commons  1938,  and  The 
Fountain  of  Magic  1939.  He  has  written  a  readable  biography  of  Michael 
Collins  published  in  America  as  Death  in  Dublin  1937;  a  novel,  The  Saint  and 
Mary  Kate  1932;  a  novel  built  up  out  of  short  narratives,  Dutch  Interior  1940, 
and  three  other  volumes  of  short  stories— Guests  of  the  Nation  1931,  Bones  of 
Contention  1936,  and  Crab  Apple  Jelly  1944. 


NOTES   ON   THE    AUTHORS  603 

SEAN  O'FAOLAIN  was  born  in  1900  in  Dublin.  He  was  brought  up,  however, 
in  Cork,  where  he  early  fell  under  the  influence  of  Daniel  Corkery,  who  was 
then  a  national  schoolteacher.  After  taking  a  B.A.  and  M.A.  from  University 
College,  Dublin,  O'Faolain  came  to  the  United  States  on  a  Commonwealth 
Fellowship  in  1926.  During  his  three-year  stay  here  he  earned  an  M.A.  from 
Harvard  and  lectured  at  Boston  College.  From  1929  to  1933  he  lived  in  Eng- 
land and  taught  at  St.  Mary's  College,  Strawberry  Hill,  Middlesex.  In  1933  he 
returned  to  Ireland  and  taught  school  in  County  Wicklow.  Sometime  in  the 
'30's  O'Faolain  gave  up  teaching  and  embarked  on  a  full-time  writing  career. 
Since  the  publication  of  his  first  book  of  short  stories,  Midsummer  Night 
Madness,  in  1932,  O'Faolain  has  written  three  novels,  A  Nest  of  Simple  Folk 
1933,  Bird  Alone  1936,  Come  Back  to  Erin  1940;  biographies  of  Hugh  O'Neill, 
Daniel  O'Connell,  Constance  Markievicz,  Eamon  DeValera  and  Cardinal  New- 
man; two  more  volumes  of  short  stories;  The  Silver  Branch  1938,  a  collection 
of  translations  from  the  Irish;  and  The  Irish  1949,  a  study  of  the  growth  of  the 
racial  mind.  The  Short  Story  1950  concerns  the  art  of  writing.  An  Irish  Journey 
and  A  Summer  in  Italy,  travel  books,  complete  the  list.  Quite  apart  from  his 
significance  as  a  novelist  and  biographer,  O'Faolain  has  been  a  force  in  Irish 
letters.  As  editor  of  The  Bell,  for  example,  he  was  outspoken  against  the 
government's  administration  of  the  censorship  law. 


LIAM  O'FLAHERTY  was  born  in  the  Aran  Islands  in  1897,  just  one  year 
before  Synge's  first  visit.  He  early  showed  exceptional  intelligence  and  was 
educated  free  by  the  Holy  Ghost  Fathers  from  his  thirteenth  year,  as  a  postulant 
for  the  priesthood.  His  studies  took  him  from  Rockwell  College,  Co.  Tipperary, 
to  Blackrock  College,  Co.  Dublin,  then  to  the  Dublin  diocesan  seminary  ( Holy 
Cross  College,  Clonliffe),  where  he  finally  gave  up  the  idea  of  taking  Orders. 
After  a  short  time  at  University  College,  Dublin,  he  joined  the  crack  Irish 
Guards.  He  spent  six  months  in  France,  was  shell-shocked  at  Langemarck  in 
September  1917  and,  after  many  months  of  hospital,  was  discharged  with  a 
disability  pension.  He  spent  some  time  at  home  and  then  set  out  in  search  of 
himself  once  more.  This  time  his  journey  took  him  most  of  the  way  round  the 
world,  as  a  stoker  and  deckhand,  a  beachcomber,  hobo  and  lumberjack.  Back 
in  Ireland  after  two  or  three  years  of  wandering,  he  rested  and  recuperated  once 
more  on  Aran.  In  1922  he  seized  a  public  building  in  Dublin  at  the  head  of  a 
group  of  unemployed  workers  and  hoisted  the  red  flag.  Driven  out  by  Govern- 
ment forces,  he  soon  after  fled  to  England.  There  his  first  novel,  Thy  Neighbours 
Wife  1923,  was  written,  and  accepted  by  Edward  Garnett,  D.  H.  Lawrence's 
editor.  The  Black  Soul,  a  Laurentian  novel,  and  Spring  Sowing  (short  stories) 
followed  in  1924.  In  Dublin  that  year  he  first  met  Margaret  Barrington,  whom 
he  married  in  1926.  The  Informer  1925  took  the  world  by  storm,  as  did  its 
movie  version  ten  years  later.  Skerrett  1932  and  Famine  1937  are  far  finer 
novels.  Some  of  his  very  best  work  is  contained  in  his  four  collections  of  short 
stories.  These  are  Spring  Solving,  The  Tent  1926,  The  Mountain  Tavern  1929, 
Two  Lovely  Beasts  1948.  Since  he  went  to  Hollywood  to  help  John  Ford  film 
The  Informer  O'Flaherty  has  written  little  by  comparison  with  his  earlier  prodi- 
gious output.  He  has,  too,  lived  in  the  U.S.,  visiting  France  in  1938  for  the 
making  of  a  French  film  from  his  novel  The  Puritan  and  returning  to  Aran 
periodically  for  fresh  contact  with  his  first  and  best  subject-matter,  the  fauna — * 
human  and  otherwise — of  his  native  place.  His  recently  completed  Insurrection 
is  his  fourteenth  novel. 


604  NOTES    ON   THE    AUTHORS 

STANDISH  JAMES  O'GRADY  was  born  in  Castletown  Berehaven,  Co.  Cork, 
on  September  18,  1846,  the  son  of  a  Church  of  Ireland  clergyman.  He  entered 
Trinity  College,  Dublin,  from  Tipperary  Grammar  School  and  graduated  B.A. 
in  1868  after  a  distinguished  undergraduate  career,  during  which  he  won  a 
Scholarship  in  Classics,  and  also  shone  in  oratory,  essay-writing,  and  practically 
every  game  and  sport  then  popular.  He  next  studied  law  and  was  called  to  the 
Irish  Bar  in  1872,  but  did  not  practise  for  long.  His  true  life-work  first  called 
him  in  1869,  when  a  wet  day  spent  in  the  library  of  a  country  house  introduced 
him  to  the  first  History  of  Ireland  he  had  ever  read — O'Halloran's.  Years  of 
eager  reading  in  Irish  history  and  legend — especially  the  latter — followed. 
Meanwhile  he  turned  from  law  to  critical  writing,  and  from  that  to  an  attempt 
to  recreate  ancient  Irish  literature  in  a  readable  form.  His  History  of  Ireland: 
Heroic  Period  1878  and  History  of  Ireland:  Cuculain  and  his  Contemporaries 
1880  became  the  foundation  stones  of  the  literary  revival,  though  his  History  of 
Ireland:  Critical  and  Philosophical  1881  never  got  beyond  the  first  volume 
(probably  no  satisfactory  evaluation  of  the  authenticity  of  the  Old  Irish  'his- 
torical' writings  is  possible  even  today).  Cuculain:  An  Epic  1882  reprinted  the 
relevant  portions  of  the  earlier  History,  which  ought  to  have  been  classified  as 
epic  rather  than  history  from  the  first.  In  the  next  decade  he  wrote  many  fine 
novels  and  tales  based  mainly  on  Irish  history  of  the  Elizabethan  period.  The 
Bog  of  Stars  1893  and  The  Flight  of  the  Eagle  1897  are  probably  the  best- 
known  of  these.  O'Grady  was  also,  among  other  things,  a  working  journalist 
and  an  ardent  student  of  politics.  Beginning  as  a  Tory  who  urged  that  the 
landlords  take  the  lead  once  again  in  Irish  affairs  ( Toryism  and  the  Tory 
Democracy  1886),  he  ended  as  an  advocate  of  Guild  Socialism  in  A.  R.  Orage's 
magazine,  The  New  Age.  As  owner  and  editor  of  the  Kilkenny  Moderator,  a 
small-town  newspaper,  he  printed  and  published  his  own  and  others'  books, 
and,  from  1900  to  1906,  the  All  Ireland  Review,  a  literary  weekly.  His  career 
is  full  of  odd  ironies:  though  he  brought  Old  Irish  literature  to  life  for  the 
unlearned  reader,  he  himself  hardly  knew  Gaelic  at  all,  unlike  his  kinsman 
Standish  Hayes  O'Grady,  who  was  an  accomplished  Celtic  scholar;  he  objected 
to  the  Irish  Literary  Theatre's  dramatizations  of  the  legends  he  hacThelped  to 
popularize  as  'degrading  Irish  ideals';  finally,  though  so  true  an  Irish  patriot, 
he  left  Ireland  permanently  many  years  before  his  death,  which  occurred  at 
Shanklin,  Isle  of  Wight,  May  18,  1928. 

SEUMAS  O'KELLY  was  born  in  Loughrea,  Co.  Galway,  where  his  father  was  a 
grain-buyer  and  carrier.  He  was  educated  at  the  local  Catholic  secondary  school, 
St.  Brendan's  College.  When  he  grew  up  he  started  to  write  for  a  nearby  coun- 
try newspaper,  and  in  1903  became  editor  of  The  Southern  Star,  published  in 
Skibbereen,  Co.  Cork.  Soon  he  moved  nearer  Dublin  to  become  editor  of  The 
Leinster  Leader,  Naas,  Co.  Kildare.  Already  a  member  of  the  Gaelic  League,  he 
now  met  Arthur  Griffith  and  other  leading  Dublin  authors  and  journalists,  and 
joined  Sinn  Fein  on  its  foundation.  His  first  book,  a  collection  of  short  stories 
and  sketches  entitled  By  the  Stream  of  Killmeen  1906,  showed  little  promise, 
but  by  1908-9  he  was  writing  some  admirable  short  stories  for  the  Irish  Weekly 
Independent.  Though  at  first  ignored  by  the  Abbey  Theatre,  he  won  their  ap- 
proval of  his  third  play,  The  Shuilers  Child,  in  1910.  Other  Abbey  plays  by 
O'Kelly  are  The  Bribe  1913,  The  Parnellite  1917,  Meadowsweet  1919.  In  or 
around  1911  O'Kelly  had  a  long  and  severe  bout  of  rheumatic  fever  which  per- 
manently weakened  his  heart;  he  resigned  from  The  Leinster  Leader  in  1912  to 
become  editor  of  The  Dublin  Saturday  Post,  had  to  give  up  this  position  owing 
to  ill  health,  and  soon  after  he  accepted  a  similar  editorship  which  he  had  to  re- 


NOTES    ON   THE    AUTHORS  605 

linquish  for  the  same  reason.  Finally,  in  1915,  he  settled  down  in  Naas  with 
an  elder  sister  and  a  young  nephew  to  make  a  living  as  a  free-lance  writer. 
To  this  period  belong  his  book  of  short  stories,  Waysiders  1917,  and  his  fine 
novel,  The  Lady  of  Deerpark  1917.  In  May  1918  Arthur  Griffith  was  imprisoned; 
O'Kelly  at  once  went  to  Dublin  at  the  risk  of  his  health  to  edit  the  Sinn  Fein 
paper  Nationality.  On  November  13  some  British  soldiers  celebrating  the 
Armistice  broke  into  the  Nationality  office  with  their  girl  friends;  O'Kelly's 
efforts  to  resist  their  vandalism  were  too  much  for  his  overstrained  heart,  and 
he  died  at  his  desk  in  a  matter  of  hours.  Three  collections  of  early  short  stories 
were  published  after  his  death,  as  well  as  an  inferior,  unrevised  novel,  Wet 
Clay  1922.  His  last  completed  work  (and  his  masterpiece)  is  the  long  short 
story  The  Weaver  s  Grave. 

PADRAIC  PEARSE  was  born  in  Dublin  in  1879,  educated  by  the  Christian 
Brothers,  graduated  from  the  Royal  (now  the  National)  University,  and  be- 
came the  founder  of  St  Enda's,  a  school  for  boys  at  Rathfamham  which  gave 
its  students  a  Gaelic  and  Irish  outlook  and  education.  In  1913  he  entered  the 
secret  revolutionary  organization,  the  Irish  Republican  Brotherhood,  and  be- 
came a  leading  member  of  its  Supreme  Council.  He  and  James  Connolly,  more 
than  any  others,  were  responsible  for  the  Rising  of  1916;  and  the  impact  that 
it  had  upon  the  popular  imagination  was  largely  due  to  his  influence.  His 
biographer  and  friend,  Desmond  Ryan,  writes,  'Pearse  had  travelled  the  road 
to  insurrection  through  his  Gaelic  idealism.  He  had  been  the  educationalist  of 
the  Gaelic  League.  He  became  the  orator  of  the  Irish  Volunteer  movement, 
an  orator  of  ultimate  revolution,  and  his  power  of  gripping  the  rank  and  file  of 
the  Volunteers  was  due  to  his  mastery  of  language,  his  sincerity,  his  personality, 
his  fire.'  He  was  executed  by  a  British  firing  squad  in  Dublin  on  May  3,  1916. 

EDWARD  SHEEHY,  born  in  Tralee,  Co.  Kerry,  some  forty  years  ago,  holds 
an  M.A.  degree  from  the  National  University  of  Ireland.  He  was  Book  Editor  of 
the  magazine  Ireland  To-day  from  December  1936  to  its  demise  in  March  1938, 
contributing  many  articles  and  short  stories  to  the  magazine  besides.  He  has 
been  art  critic  of  The  Dublin  Magazine  since  1943.  Though  he  has  completed 
at  least  one  novel,  God  Send  Sunday  1939  is  his  only  creative  work  to  be  sepa- 
rately published.  Another  of  his  tales,  reprinted  from  Horizon,  will  be  found  in 
Horizon  Stories.  He  has  done  some  teaching.  For  many  years  he  lived  in  a 
peasant  cottage  in  the  Dublin  mountains,  whence  he  descended  upon  the  city 
wearing  a  black  goatee  beard  and  black  leather  leggings.  He  now  lives  at 
Phrompstown  House,  Enniskerry,  Co.  Wicklow.  He  is  married  to  Anna  Kelly,  a 
Dublin  painter,  and  has  two  children. 

EDITH  CENONE  SOMERVILLE  and  MARTIN  ROSS  (Violet  Florence 
Martin),  who  for  twenty-six  years  were  associated  in  one  of  the  most  successful 
of  literary  partnerships,  were  born  respectively  in  Corfu  on  May  2,  1858  and  in 
Ross,  County  Galway,  on  June  11,  1862.  Although  the  two  cousins  were  brought 
up  in  County  Galway,  they  did  not  meet  until  1886.  Miss  Somerville  writes, 
'almost  immediately  they  were  aware  that  Chance,  or  Fate,  had  done  them  a 
good  turn,  and  that  to  the  marriage  of  true  minds  there  would  be  no  impedi- 
ment.' Their  first  book,  An  Irish  Cousin  1889,  was  successful  enough  to  en- 
courage them  to  continue  their  collaboration.  From  this  date  until  the  death 
of  Martin  Ross  on  December  21,  1915,  they  wrote  travel  books,  essays,  sporting 
and  children's  picture  books,  the  incomparable  Experiences  of  an  Irish  R.  M., 
immortalised  in  1944  by  its  inclusion  in  Everyman's  Library,  and  The  Real 


bUb  NOTES    ON   THE   AUTHORS 

Charlotte  1894,  reissued  in  1948  in  The  World's  Classics.  Miss  Somerville,  up  to 
her  death,  Oct.  8,  1949,  maintained  the  myth  of  collaboration  by  continuing  to 
write  over  the  familiar  names  of  Somerville  and  Ross,  and  she  admitted  only 
that  since  her  collaborator's  death  'our  technique  of  writing  together  has  had 
to  be  changed,  and,  to  a  certain  extent,  modified.'  Her  desire  to  continue  the 
collaboration  in  name  at  least  was  recognised  in  1932  when  Trinity  College, 
Dublin,  tactfully  bestowed  honorary  Litt.D.'s  on  both  the  dead  and  the  living 
collaborator.  Although  writing  at  a  time  when  Irish  literature  was  being  trans- 
formed by  the  ideals  of  the  new  nationalism  and  the  Celtic  revival,  Somerville 
and  Ross  continued  to  write  in  the  Ascendancy  tradition  established  by  Maria 
Edgeworth,  Samuel  Lover,  and  Charles  Lever,  who  have  been  described  as 
Irish  colonial  writers.  But  the  Ireland  of  Somerville  and  Ross,  which  is  neither 
the  realistic  Ireland  of  Synge  and  O'Flaherty  nor  the  'hidden  Ireland'  of  Daniel 
Corkery,  is  no  less  true  for  being  an  Ireland  of  Big  Houses  and  fox  hunts;  and 
their  achievement  should  be  measured  in  the  terms  of  the  Ascendancy  tradition 
in  which  they  excelled  and  not  by  the  ideals  of  the  Literary  Revival  by  which 
they  remained  untouched,  and  of  which  they  were  apparently  oblivious. 

JAMES  STEPHENS  was  born  in  Dublin  in  1882.  He  was  trying  to  support  a 
wife  and  child  on  a  meagre  salary  as  a  typist  in  a  lawyer's  office  in  Dublin  when 
AE  discovered  him  and  introduced  him  to  Yeats,  Lady  Gregory,  and  George 
Moore.  His  first  volume  of  verse,  Insurrections  1909,  received  scant  critical 
approval,  probably  because  it  did  not  deal  with  leprechauns,  fairies  and,  as 
Ernest  Boyd  pointed  out,  'the  other  adjuncts  of  accepted  Celticism.'  But  The 
Crock  of  Gold  1912  was  a  book  to  silence  all  such  criticisms  and  its  success 
was  immediate.  The  popularity  of  The  Crock  of  Gold  today,  just  forty  years 
since  it  was  first  published,  is  attested  by  the  fact  that  it  is  currently  in  its 
nineteenth  printing.  Stephens  has  been  a  successful  prose  writer  in  such  novels 
as  The  Charwoman's  Daughter  1912,  The  Demi-Gods  1914,  Deirdre  1923,  and 
In  the  Land  of  Youth  1924,  and  in  such  a  collection  of  short  stories  as  Here 
Are  Ladies  1912.  But  despite  the  fame  of  The  Crock  of  Gold,  Stephens  is  most 
likely  to  be  remembered  as  a  poet.  In  his  poems  he  seldom  descends  to  the 
sentimentality  of  The  Charwoman's  Daughter,  or  the  'sophisticated  infantilism' 
of  The  Crock  of  Gold.  After  his  Collected  Poems  was  published  in  1926,  he 
published  two  more  thin  volumes  of  verse,  Strict  Joy  1931  and  Kings  and  the 
Moon  1938.  He  died  in  London,  1950. 

FRANCIS  STUART  was  born  in  Australia  in  1902.  Except  for  several  years 
when  he  was  attending  Rugby  School,  he  spent  his  youth  in  Ireland.  At  twenty 
he  fought  in  the  Irish  Civil  War  as  a  Republican,  was  captured  in  a  street  fight, 
spent  over  nine  months  in  prison  and  internment  camp,  and  went  on  an  eleven- 
day  hunger  strike.  He  married  Iseult  Gonne,  daughter  of  Maude  Gonne;  they 
have  two  children.  During  the  war  years  he  lived  in  Germany  and  saw  the  Rus- 
sians enter  Berlin  in  1945.  He  is  at  present  living  in  Paris.  Stuart's  second  novel, 
Pigeon  Irish,  published  when  he  was  thirty,  a  curious  blending  of  mysticism, 
sex,  and  violence,  won  him  immediate  critical  acclaim.  Two  plays  performed  at 
the  Abbey  Theatre — Men  Crowd  Me  Round  in  1933  and  Strange  Guest  in  1940 
— two  volumes  of  autobiographical  reveries — Things  to  Live  For  1935  and  The 
Angel  of  Pity  also  1935 — and  thirteen  novels  represent  his  entire  published 
work.  The  most  successful  of  his  latest  novels  is  Redemption  1949,  a  brilliant 
study  of  the  sexual  and  spiritual  urges  which  Stuart  sees  as  the  motivating  forces 
of  human  conduct. 


NOTES   ON   THE   AUTHORS  607 

JOHN  MILLINGTON  SYNGE  was  born  in  Rathfarnham,  a  suburb  of  Dublin, 
on  January  16,  1871.  Descended  from  landed  English  gentry  who  had  come  to 
Ireland  in  the  17th  century,  he  had  among  his  ancestors  five  bishops,  including 
the  famous  18th-century  Archbishop  Synge  of  Tuam.  Educated  mostly  at  home 
by  private  tutor,  he  was  graduated  from  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  in  1892.  After 
college  he  went  to  Europe,  not  in  the  tradition  of  the  Irish  vagantes,  but  merely 
to  put  the  finishing  touches  to  an  Irish  gentleman's  education  before  embarking 
on  a  musical  career.  By  1894  he  had  decided  against  music,  settled  in  Paris,  and 
was  deliberating  about  earning  his  living  as  a  journalist  in  France.  When  the 
famous  meeting  with  Yeats  took  place,  in  which  Yeats  said,  'Give  up  Paris,  you 
will  never  create  anything  by  reading  Racine.  ...  Go  to  the  Aran  Islands.  Live 
there  as  if  you  were  one  of  the  people  themselves;  express  a  life  that  has  never 
found  expression,'  Synge  was  living  comfortably,  though  frugally,  on  regular 
contributions  from  his  family.  The  story  assumed  all  the  proportions  of  a 
Yeatsian  myth  in  which  Synge's  quarters  in  the  Hotel  Corneille  became  a  garret 
and  Synge  himself  took  on  the  features  of  a  bohemian.  Synge,  at  any  rate,  took 
the  advice.  In  1898  he  paid  his  first  visit  to  Aran,  equipped  with  his  notebooks, 
his  fiddle,  and  a  Gaelic  dictionary  to  help  him  brush  up  on  Irish,  which  he  had 
not  read  since  his  undergraduate  days  at  Trinity  College.  Synge's  brief  career 
as  a  member  of  the  Literary  Revival,  which  began  with  this  visit  to  Aran,  ended 
on  March  24,  1909,  when  he  died  of  cancer  at  a  nursing  home  in  Dublin.  In 
those  eleven  years  he  wrote  In  the  Shadow  of  the  Glen,  Riders  to  the  Sea, 
The  Playboy  of  the  Western  World,  The  Well  of  the  Saints,  The  Tinkers 
Wedding,  and  the  unfinished  Deirdre  of  the  Sorrows,  and  established  himself 
as  the  greatest  dramatist  of  modern  Ireland. 

WILLIAM  BUTLER  YEATS  was  born  in  Sandymount,  a  suburb  of  Dublin,  on 
June  13,  1865.  His  mother's  people  were  country  gentry  from  Sligo,  where  th6 
poet  spent  a  good  deal  of  his  youth.  Yeats,  in  his  early  twenties,  was  editing 
stories  from  Carleton  and  Irish  fairy  tales  for  an  English  publisher  when  he 
wrote  what  he  later  called  his  first  properly  Irish  poem,  'The  Lake  Isle  of  Innis- 
free.'  His  early  editorial  work  is  not  without  significance,  however,  because  his 
Poems  and  Ballads  of  Young  Ireland  1888,  a  slim  anthology  containing  the  work 
of  several  of  his  young  contemporaries,  is  now  considered  the  first  collective 
offering  of  the  Literary  Revival.  Shortly  after  the  publication  of  his  first  volume 
of  verse  in  1889,  he  met  Maude  Gonne,  to  whom  he  wrote  love  lyrics  almost 
to  the  end  of  his  life.  He  helped  inaugurate  the  Literary  Revival  by  founding, 
with  others,  The  Irish  Literary  Society  of  London  in  1891  and  The  Irish  Na- 
tional Literary  Society  of  Dublin  in  1892.  In  1899,  with  George  Moore  and 
EclWard  Martyn,  he  launched  The  Irish  Literary  Theatre  by  the  performance  in 
Dublin  of  his  play  The  Countess  Cathleen  and  Martyn's  The  Heather  Field. 
From  that  point  on  it  was  Yeats  who  formulated  the  ideals  and  objectives  of  the 
movement  and  became  its  most  significant  figure.  In  1917  he  married  an 
Englishwoman  who  shared  his  interest  in  spiritualism.  He  had  two  children  by 
her.  In  1923  his  importance  as  a  world  figure  in  literature  was  signalised  by  his 
receiving  the  Nobel  Prize  for  poetry.  He  died,  while  in  France  with  his  wifer 
on  January  28,  1939.  His  Collected  Poems,  first  published  in  1933,  is  the  stand- 
ard collection  of  his  best  poems.  His  Collected  Plays,  now  unfortunately  out  of 
print,  was  published  in  1934. 


COLLEGE  LIBRARY 

Date  Due 
Due             Returned             Due            Returned 

' 

mi 

ny*  * 

1 

^ 

T 

OCT  2  ?1 

3CS  AU&-2  8 

989 

MAY  1  "1  1995 

MAY  0  *> 

1991 

UNIVERSITY    OF    FLORIDA 


3  12b2  DM3b26M?  7 

V\SS"5"o 

{A.  \ 
a.  "2- 


Witt><*amfmmuF. 


to  Internet  a 


fcft/ve 


