MARCUS 


BEIFAST 


BROAD 


K 


\ 


Thos- Crane 
£llen-Houghton 


CHILDREN'S  BOOK 
COLLECTION 

* 

LIBRARY  OF  THE 

UNIVERSITY   OF   CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


ABROAD 


•BON    VOYAGE  • 


LAST  YEAR,   DEAR  FRIENDS,  WE  MET  '  AT  HOME," 
AND  NOW  "ABROAD"  WE  MEAN  TO  ROAM: 
WlTH  ALL  WHO  CHOOSE  TO  SPARE  THE  TIME 
WE'LL  WANDER  TO  A  NEIGHBOURING  CLIME. 
NOR  NEED  YOU  LEAVE  YOUR  OWN   FIRESIDE, 
FOR  WITH  FA'IR  FANCY  FOR  OUR  GUIDE, 
OUR  WINGED  THOUGHTS,  IN  SWALLOW-FLIGHT, 
SHALL  CROSS  THE  CHANNEL  SMOOTH  AND  BRIGHT: 
AND  IN   DESPITE  OF   WIND  OR  WEATHER, 
WE'LL  MAKE  OUR  LITTLE  TOUR  TOGETHER. 


Now  ON  OUR  PICTURES  YOU  SHALL  LOOK:- 

To    YOU    WE    DEDICATE    OUR    BOOK. 


ABROAD 


Llilifllflffi 


\ 


BELFAST          •  MARCUS  •  WARD  •  6-  •  Co  •    |    NEW-YORK 


LONDON 


MARCUS      &RD£r(g 


-|}j| 


PAGE 

"Bon  Voyage"  ...         ...      3 

LONDON  :  ' '  Packing  " — Frontispiece 
,,        The  Departure — Title-page 

On  the  Way       8 

FOLKESTONE  :  Going  on  Board 

Crossing  the  Channel 

BOULOGNE  :  The  Buffet 
The  Hotel 
The  Quay 
The  First  Morning 

in  France 
'Good-night" 
Church  of  St.  Ouen 
Blind  Pierre 
,,        Rue  de  1'Epicerie 

The  Creche     

The  Schoolroom 

School  Drill 

CAEN  :  The  Arrival     

The  Hotel       

The  Hotel  Kitchen   ... 
,,        The  Washerwomen 
,,        The  Knife-grinder 
Chocolate  and  Milk 
The  Lacemakers 


En  Route— A  Railway  Crossing    32 
, ,  A  Railway  Station      33 

PARIS  :   The   Gardens   of   the 

Palais  Royale        ...     34 

,,        On  the  Boulevard     ...     35 

The  Tuileries  Gardens     36 

,,        Punch  and  Judy        ...     37 

Musee  de  Cluny        ...     38 

Staircase  of  Henry  II.      39 

The  Man  in  Armour        40 

The  "Zoo"    41 

,,        The  Pony  Tramway  ...     42 

The  Swans     43 

,,        A  Flower  Stall  ...     44 

A  Day  at  Versailles  ...     45 
La  Fontaine  des  Inno- 
cents ...         ...     47 

,,         The  Markets 49 

, ,         The  Luxembourg  Gar- 
dens 

,,         The  Merry-go-round 
The  Night  Journey  to  Calais 
CALAIS  :  The  Water-Gate 
DOVER  :  Homeward  Bound 
"  Bon  Retour  " 


THE   VERSES   ARE   BY   VARIOUS   WRITERS 


C  A.  L  A  I  S 


^- 


MY  READERS,  would  you  like  to  go  abroad,  for  just  an  hour  or  so, 
With  little  friends  of  different  ages  ?     Look  at  them  in  these  pictured  pages — 
Brothers  and  sisters  you  can  see, — all  children  of  one  family. 
Their  father,  too,  you  here  will  find,  and  good  Miss  Earle,  their  teacher  kind. 
Three  years  ago  their  Mother  died,  and  ever  since  has  Father  tried 
To  give  his  children  in  the  Spring  some  tour,  or  treat,  or  pleasant  thing. 
Said  he,  last  Easter,  "  I  propose,  for  Nellie,  Dennis,  Mabel,  Rose, 
A  trip  abroad — to  go  with  me  to  Paris  and  through  Normandy." 
Then  all  exclaimed,  "  Oh  !  glorious  ! "— "  But  may  not  Bertie  go  with  us  ? — " 
Said  Rose — "We  can't  leave  him  at  home."  Then  Father  said  he  too  should  come. 
Turn  to  the  Frontispiece  and  see  the  children  packing  busily. 
The  next  page  shows  them  in  the  station  at  Charing  Cross.     Their  great  elation 
Is  written  plainly  on  their  faces. — Bell  rings — "Time's  up — Come,  take  your  places  '." 


The  "Folkestone  Express"  sped   on  like  a  dream, 
And  there  lay  the  steamer  fast  getting  up  steam. 


^^T/^K1' 
W&&       £W* 


TH  E  N  at  the  Folkestone  harbour,  down  they  go 
Across  the  gangway  to  the  boat  below ; 
Mabel  and  Rose  just  crossing  you  can  see, 
Each  holding  her  new  doll  most  carefully. 


Nellie,  Miss  Earle,  and  Bertie  too  appear, 
Whilst  Dennis,  with  the  rugs,  brings  up  the  rear. 
May  looks  behind  her  with  an  anxious  air, 
Lest  Father,  at  the  last,  should  not  be  there. 


Our  children  once  on  board,  all  safe  and  sound, 
Watch  with  delight  the  busy  scene  around. 
The  noisy  steam-pipe  blows  and  blows  away, — 
"  Now  this  is  just  the  noise  we  like,"  they  say. 


But  while  the  turmoil  loud  and  louder  grows, 
"  I'm  glad  the  wind  blows  gently,"  whispers  Rose. 
And  as  the  steamer  swiftly  leaves  the  quay, 
Mabel  and  Dennis  almost  dance  with  glee. 


CROSSING    THE    CHANNEL. 

THE  sea  is  calm,  and  clear  the  sky — only  a  few  clouds  scudding  by  : 
The  Passengers  look  bright,  and  say,  "  Are  we  not  lucky  in  the  day ! " 
The  Mate  stands  in  the  wheelhouse  there,  and  turns  the  wheel  with  watchful  care 
Steering  to-day  is  work  enough ;  what  must  it  be  when  weather 's  rough  ? 
Look  at  him  in  his  sheltered  place — he  hasn't  got  a  merry  face — 
Tis  not  such  fun  for  him,  you  know,  he  goes  so  often  to  and  fro. 
Nellie  and  Father,  looking  back,  glance  at  the  vessel's  lengthening  track — 
"  How  far,"  says  Nellie,  "we  have  come !  good-bye,  good-bye,  dear  English  home  ! ' 
Dennis  and  Rose  and  Mabel,  walking  upon  the  deck,  are  gaily  talking — 
Says  Mabel,  " No  one  must  forget  to  call  my  new  doll  'Antoinette'; 
Travelling  in  France,  'twould  be  a  shame  for  her  to  have  an  English  name." 
Says  Dennis,  "  Call  her  what  you  will,  so  you  be  English  'Mabel '  still. 
Says  Rose,  to  Dennis  drawing  nigher,  "  I  think  the  wind  is  getting  higher ; " 
"  If  a  gale  blows,  do  you  suppose,  we  shall  be  wrecked?  "  asks  little  Rose." 


WHILE  chatting  with  Dennis,  Rose  lost  all  her  fear  ; 
And  the  swift  Albert  Victor  came  safe  to  the  pier 
At  Boulogne,  where  they  landed,  and  there  was  the  train 
Jn  waiting  to  take  up  the  travellers  again. 
But  to  travel  so  quickly  was  not  their  intent : 
On  a  little  refreshment  our  party  was  bent. 
Here  they  are  at  the  Buffet — for  dinner  they  wait — 
And  the  tall  garspn,  Andre,  attends  them  in  state. 


HI 


At  a  separate  table  sits  Monsieur  Legros, 

And  behind  him  his  poodle,  Fidele,  you  must  know, 

Who  can  dance,  he's  so  clever,  and  si  and  on  his  head, 

Or  upon  his  nose  balance  a  morsel  of  bread. 

Mabel  takes  up  some  sugar  to  coax  him,  whilst  Nell 

Calls  him  to  her — Fidele  understands  very  well — 

"Why!  he  must  have  learnt  English,  he  knows  what  we  say," 

Mabel  cries,  "  See! — he  begs  in  the  cleverest  way." 


THEM  to  the  Hotel  on  the  quay  they  all  went ; 
To  remain  till  the  morrow  they  all  were  content 
After  so  much  fatigue  Father  thought  it  was  best, 
For  the  children  were  weary  and  needed  the  rest. 
Pictured  here  is  the  room  in  that  very  Hotel, 
Where  so  cosily  rested  Rose,  Mabel,  and  Nell. 


ili 


Mabel  dreamed  of  the  morrow — of  buying  French  toys  : 
Rose  remembered  the  steam-pipe,  and  dreamed  of  its  noise. 
Nellie's  dreams  were  of  home,  but  she  woke  from  her  trance 
Full  of  joy,  just  to  think  they  were  really  in  France. 

Very  early  next  morning,  you  see  them  all  three 
Looking  out  from  their  window  that  faces  the  sea. 


14 


THE     FIRST     MORNING     IN     FRANCE. 


TJERE  they  see  a  P^tty  sight, 
•*•  •••   Sunny  sky  and  landscape  bright : 
Fishing-boats  move  up  and  down, 
With  their  sails  all  red  and  brown. 

Some  to  land  are  drawing  near, 
O'er  the  water  still  and  clear, 
Full  of  fish  as  they  can  be, 
Caught  last  night  in  open  sea. 

On  the  pavement  down  below, 
Fishwives  hurry  to  and  fro,   - 
Calling  out  their  fish  to  sell — 
"  What  a  noisy  lot,"  says  Nell, 

"  What  a  clap — clap — clap — they  make 
With  their  shoes  each  step  they  take. 
Wooden-  shoes,  I  do  declare, 
And  oh  !  what  funny  caps  they  wear! " 


After  breakfast  all  went  out 
To  view  the  streets,  and  walk  about 
The  ancient  city-walls,  so  strong, 
Where  waved  the  English  flag  for  long. 

Toy  shops  too  they  went  to  see, 
Spread  with  toys  so  temptingly  : 
Dolls  of  every  kind  were  there, 
With  eyes  that  shut  and  real  hair — 

And,  in  a  brightly-coloured  row, 
Doll-fisherfolk  like  these  below. 
Prices  marked,  as  if  to  say, 
"  Come  and  buy  us,  quick,  to-day  ! " 

One  for  Mabel,  one  for  Rose, 
Two  for  Bertie  I  suppose, 
Father  bought. — Then  all  once  more 
Set  off  travelling  as  before. 


'T*O  Rouen  next  they  went,  that  very  day,  Dennis  bought  chocolate  to  make  a  feast — 

•*•    And  heard  strange  places  called  out  by  the  way,  They  had  three  dinners  in  the  train,  at  least. 

Where  bells  kept  tinkling  while  the  train  delayed  :  At  Rouen  here  they  are  at  last,  though  late — 

At  Amiens  ten  minutes  quite  they  stayed.  The  bedroom  clock  there  shows  'tis  after  eight ! 


Mabel  looks  tired — she  lies  back  in  her  chair 
Beside  the  wood  fire  burning  brightly  there. 
Rose  says — "  Good-night !" — to  Bertie  fast  asleep, 
While  her  own  eyes  can  scarcely  open  keep. 


Next  morning,  through  the  quaint  old  streets  of  Rouen 
They  went  to  see  the  old  church  of  Saint  Ouen, 
With  eager  feet,  and  chatting  as  they  walked, 
About  the  ancient  Town,  together  talked. 


1 6 


SAID  Dennis,  first, 
"  This  city  bold 
Belonged  to  us 

In  days  of  old." 
Said  Nellie,  "  Here 

Prince  Arthur  wept — 
By  cruel  John 

A  prisoner  kept. 
Here  Joan  of  Arc 

Was  tried  and  burned 
When  fickle  fate 

Against  her  turned." 
Said  Rose,  "  Oh  dear ! 

It  makes  me  sad 
To  think  what  trouble 

People  had 
Who  lived  once  in 

This  very  town, 
Where  we  walk  gaily 

Up  and  down." 


NOW  they  have  come  into  the  entrance  wide 
Of  great  St.  Ouen's  Church  ;  see,  side  by  side, 
Dennis  and  Nellie  going  on  before: 
The  others  watch  yon  beggar  at  the  door — 
Poor  blind  Pierre;  he  always  waits  just  so, 
Listening  for  those  who  come  and  those  who  go. 
He  tells  his  beads,  and  hopes  all  day  that  some 
May  think  of  him,  'mongst  those  who  chance  to  come. 
Though  he  can't  see,  he  is  so  quick  to  hear, 
He  knows  a  long,  long  time  ere  one  draws  near, 
And  shakes  the  coppers  in  his  well-worn  tin — 
"  Click,  click,"  it  goes — see,  Bertie's  gift  drops  in. 
'Tis  his  one  sou  that  Bertie  gives  away — 
It  might  have  bought  him  sweets  this  very  day. 
When  through  St.  Ouen's  Church  they  'd  been  at  last, 
Along  its  aisles  and  down  its  transept  passed, 
They  went  to  the  Cathedral,  there  to  see 
The  tomb  of  Rolf,  first  Duke  of  Normandy. 
But  Mabel  said,  "  Why  should  we  English  care 
About  that  Rolf  they  say  was  buried  there?" 
Then  she  ran  on,  not  waiting  for  reply — 
My  little  reader,  can  you  tell  her  why  ? 


Cathedral  was  cold, 
With  its  dim  solemn  aisles 
But  outside  our  friends  found 
The  sun  waiting,  with  smiles, 
To  show  them  their  way, 
So  hither  they  came 
Along  an  old  street 
With  a  hard  French  name, 


And  still  walking  onward, 
Through  streets  we  can't  see, 
At  length  reached  the  Creche 
Of  "Sceur  Rosalie" — 
Where  poor  women's  children 
Are  kept  all  day  through, 
Amused,  taught,  and  tended, 
And  all  for  one  sou. 


pHILDREN  are  happy  with  "Sister"  all  day, 
v_y  Mothers  can't  nurse  them — they  work  far  away. 
Good  Sister  Rosalie,  she  is  so  kind, 

^  E'en  when  they're  troublesome,  she  doesn't  mind. 

Here  in  the  first  room  the  Babies  we  see,  sitting  at  dejeuner  round  Rosalie. 


Dodo  is  crying,  he  can't  find  his  spoon — some  one  will  find  it  and  comfort  him  soon. 
Over  yon  cradle  bends  kind  Sister  Claire,  v 

Dear  little  Mimi  is  waking  up  there. 
Sister  Felicite',  sweetly  sings  she, 
"  Up  again,  down  again,  BeM,  to  me." 


G> 


I  J 

M  N 
OR 
U  V 


BCD 
F  G  H 
K 


THE  school-room  of  the  Creche  is  wide, 
The  children  sit  there,  side  by  side, 
While  "Sister"  hears  their  lessons  through, 
And  when  there  's  no  more  work  to  do 
They  all  get  up,  and  form  a  ring, 
And  as  they  stand,  together  sing. 
Now  hand  in  hand,  tramp,  tramp  they  go, 
Now  in  a  line  march  to  and  fro, 
For  with  the  rattle  in  her  hand 
The  "  Sister "  makes  them  understand 
When  to  advance  and  when  draw  back — 
Click-clack  it  goes,  click -clack,  click-clack. 
On  Stephanie  now  turn  your  eyes, 
She 's  only  five,  but  she 's  so  wise — 
She  knows  the  alphabet  all  through, 
And,  more  than  that,  can  teach  it  too. 
Just  now,  she  moves  her  wand  to  J, 
And  tells  the  children  what  to  say. 
But  'tis  no  use  to  tell  Ninette, 
For  she  is  but  a  bebe  yet. 

V 


ARRIVAL     AT     CAEN. 


'T^HROUGH  Rouen  when  our  friends  had  been, 
•••    And  all  its  famous  places  seen, 
They  travelled  on,  old  Caen  to  see, 
Another  town  in  Normandy. 

Arrived  at  Caen,  the  travellers  here 
Before  the  chief  Hotel  appear, 
Miss  Earle,  Rose,  Bertie  you  descry — 
The  rest  are  coming  by-and-by. 

Monsieur  le  Maitre,  with  scrape  and  bow, 
Stands  ready  to  receive  them  now, 

And  Madame  with  her  blandest  air, 

And  their  alert  Commissionaire. 


\TEXT  up  the  staircase  see  them  go, 
*  '    Wiih/emme  de  chambre  the  way  to  show. 
Father  and  Dennis,  standing  there, 
Are  asking  for  the  bill  of  fare. 

Momieur  le  Maitie,  who  rubs  his  hands 
And  says,  "  What  are  Monsieur's  commands  ? ' 
With  scrape  and  bow,  again  you  see — 
The  most  polite  of  men  is  he. 


«  5 


\TOW  that  dinner  is  ordered,  we  '11  just  take  a  peep 
•^      At  the  cooks  in  the  kitchen — just  see !  what  a  heap 
Of  plates  are  provided,  and  copper  pans  too  ;— 
They  '11  soon  make  a  dinner  for  me  and  for  you. 
French  cookery 's  famous  for  flavouring  rare, 
But  of  garlic  I  think  they've  enough  and  to  spare. 


iftl/ifcm 


^ 


If  we  ask  how  their  wonderful  dishes  are  made, 
I  'm  afraid  they  won't  tell  us  the  tricks  of  the  trade. 
Do  they  make  them,  I  wonder,  of  frogs  and  of  snails  ? 
Or  are  these,  after  all,  only  travellers'  tales  ? 
The  names  are  all  down  on  the  "  Menu,"  no  doubt, 
But  the  worst  of  it  is  that  we  can't  make  them  out. 


IT  ERE  the  children 
•*•  * 


Came  next  morn, 
Walking  by 

The  river  Orne  ; 
Near  the  poplars 

On  the  green, 
Where  the  Washerwives 

Are  seen. 
Here  they  looked 

At  old  Nannette, 
Wringing  out 

The  garments  wet  ; 
Saw  how  Eugenie, 

Her  daughter, 
Soaked  them  first 

In  running  water; 
Watched  the  washers 

Soaping,  scrubbing, 
With  their  mallets 

Rubbing,  drubbing  — 
Working  hard 

With  all  their  might, 
Till  the  clothes 

Were  clean  and  white. 


L'HOMME  qui  passe,"  in  France  they  call 
The  man  who  thrives 
By  grinding  knives — 
Who  never  stays  at  home  at  all, 

But  always  must  be  moving  on. 

He  's  glad  to  find 

Some  knives  to  grind, 
But  when  they're  finished  he'll  be  gone. 

With  dog  behind  to  turn  the  wheel, 

He  grinds  the  knife 

For  farmer's  wife, 
And  pauses  now  the  edge  to  feel  : 

The  dog  behind  him  hears  the  sound 
Of  cheerful  chat 
On  this  and  that, 

And  fears  no  knife  is  being  ground. 


THE 

KNIFE-GRINDER 
OF    CAEN. 


The  man  makes  jokes  with  careless  smile, 

He  doesn't  mind 

The  dog  behind, 
But  goes  on  talking  all  the  while. 


CHOCOLATE   AND    MILK. 

T  ITTLE  Lili,  whose  age  isn't  three  years  quite, 

-L'  Went  one  day  with  Mamma  for  a  long  country  walk, 

Keeping  up,  all  the  time,  such  a  chatter  and  talk 

Of  the  trees,  and  the  flowers,  and  the  cows,  brown  and  white. 

Soon  she  asked  for  some  cake,  and  some  chocolate  too, 

For  this  was  her  favourite  lunch  every  day — 

"  Dear  child,"  said  Mamma,  "let  me  see — I  dare  say 


A  TOUT 
HEURL 


' 

^t^rQ£, 


"  If  I  ask  that  nice  milkmaid,  and  say  it 's  for  you, 

Some  sweet  milk  we  can  get  from  her  pretty  white  cow." 

"  I  would  rather  have  chocolate,"  Lili  averred. 

Then  Mamma  said,  "  Dear  Lili,  please  don't  be  absurd ; 

My  darling,  you  cannot  have  chocolate  now : 

You  know  we  can't  get  it  so  far  from  the  town. — 

Come  and  stroke  the  white  cow, — see,  her  coat 's  soft  as  silk. 

"  But,  Mamma,"  Lili  said,  "  if  the  White  cow  gives  milk, 

Then  chocolate  surely  must  come  from  the  Brown" 


LACE  MAKERS  OF  CAEN 


IN  many  a  lowly  cottage  in  France 
The  bobbins  keep  threading  a  mazy  dance 
The  whole  day  long,  from  morning  to  night, 
Weaving  the  lace  so  pretty  and  light 
How  swiftly  the  nimble  fingers  twist 
The  threads  on  the  pillow — not  one  is  missed : 
Each  bobbin  would  seem  to  rise  from  its  place 
To  meet  the  fingers  that  form  the  lace. 
How  wondrously  quick  the  pattern  shows 
From  the  threads,  as  under  our  eyes  it  grows  : — 
How  quickly  follow  stem,  leaves,  and  flower, 
As  if  under  the  spell  of  enchanter's  power. 
Look  at  old  Nannette — she  can  scarcely  see, 
Yet  none  can  make  lovelier  lace  than  she; 
And  her  grand-daughter  Julie — just  seven  years  old, 
Is  learning  already  the  bobbins  to  hold. 
Without  drawings  to  follow,  or  patterns  to  trace, 
How  can  these  poor  cottagers  fashion  their  lace? 
From  the  plant  and  the  flower  and  unfolding  fern 
And  the  frost  on  the  pane  their  patterns  they  learn,- 
From  gossamer  web  by  the  spider  wove, — 
From  natural  taste  and  natural  love 
For  every  form  of  beauty  and  grace, 
They  Ve  learned  to  fashion  their  wonderful  lace. 


s 


>c^ 


FOR  Paris  quite  an  early  start 
They  made  the  following  day, 
And  out  of  windows  every  one 
Kept  looking,  all  the  way. 
And  many  a  pretty  road  like  this 
The  train  went  whizzing  past, 
Where  gatekeeper,  with  flag  and  horn, 
Stood  by  the  gates  shut  fast. 
That's  Marie  you  see  standing  there  : 
Now,  do  you  wonder  why 
A  woman  has  to  blow  the  horn 
Before  the  train  goes  by? — 
Her  husband  is  a  lazy  man, 
He's  in  his  cottage  near, 
He  would  not  stir  a  step,  although 
The  train  will  soon  be  here. 
And  Marie  called  him,  "  Paul,  be  quick  - 
Go  shut  the  gate,"  she  cried — 
"  Don't  hurry  me,  there's  time  enough," 
The  lazy  man  replied. 
So  Marie  had  to  go,  you  see, 
And  take  the  horn,  and  blow. — 
And  every  day  it's  just  the  same, 
She  always  has  to  go. 


•  EN    ROUTE  • 

BLATTER  !  clatter  !  on  they  go, 

Past  stream  and  gentle  valley, 
Until  the  engine  wheels  turn  slow, 
And  stop  at  length  to  dally 


For  dinner-time  full  half-an-hour 
Within  a  crowded  station, 

While  hungry  little  mouths  devour 
The  tempting  cold  collation 


Spread  in  the  dining-room  at  hand  ; 

And  then,  when  that  is  finished, 
The  children  sally  in  a  band, 

With  appetites  diminished, 


To  look  at  all  the  folk  they  meet, —  And  all  the  other  folk  that  make          The  engine  puffs — away  they  fly, 

The  porters  in  blue  blouses,  A  crowd  in  France  amusing  : —  And  soon  leave  all  behind  them  ; 

The  white-robed  priests,  the  nuns  so  neat.  Till  hark!  their  places  all  must  take,   Now  turn  the  page,  and  you  and  I 
The  farmers  and  their  spouses,  Without  a  minute  losing.  In  Paris  safe  will  find  them. 


PARIS,  gay  Pai<^  !  so  bright  and  so  fair, 

Your  sun  is  all  smiles,  and  there 's  mirth  in  your  air. 


The  children,  though  tired  with  their  travelling,  found 
That  the  first  night  in  Paris  one's  sleep  is  not  sound, 
For  the  hum  of  the  streets  makes  one  dream  all  the  night 
Of  the  wonderful  sights  that  will  come  with  the  light. 

The  morning  was  fine,  and — breakfast  despatched — 

They  soon  made  their  way  to  the  Gardens  attached 

To  the  old  Royal  Palace,  and  there  met  a  throng 

Of  French  children,  and  joined  in  their  games  before  long. 

One  boy  lent  his  hoop,  and  gave  Bertie  a  bun. 
And — talking  quite  fast — seemed  to  think  it  great  fun 
With  nice  English  girls  like  our  Nellie  to  play, 
Though  not  understanding  a  word  she  might  say. 

On  leaving  the  Gardens,  the  party  were  seated 

Outside  of  a  caft,  and  there  Papa  treated 

Them  all  to  fine  ices  and  chocolate  too  ; 

They  could  hardly  tell  which  was  the  nicer — could  you  ? 


Paris,  gay  Paris, 

So  bright  and  so  fair  ! 
Your  sun  is  all  smiles. 

And  there 's  mirth  in  your  air  ! 


35 


IN    THE    TUILERIES    GARDENS. 


T  N  the  Tuileries  gardens,  each  afternoon, 
A  little  old  man  comes  walking  along  : 
Now  watch  what  happens !  for  just  as  soon 
As  they  see  him,  the  birds  begin  their  song, 
And  flutter  about  his  hands  and  head, 
And  perch  on  his  shoulder  quite  at  their  ease, 
For  he  fills  his  pockets  with  crumbs  of  bread 
To  feed  his  friends  who  live  in  the  trees, 
And  well  they  know  he  loves  them  so 
That  into  his  pockets  they  sometimes  go. 


But  hark  to  what  }s  going  on  over  there ! 
'Tis  surely  a  Punch-and-Judy  man, 
Making  old  Judy,  I  do  declare, 
Talk  French  as  fast  as  ever  she  can ! 
And  I  think,  from  the  looks  of  poor  Mr.  P., 
He  's  getting  it  hot  from  his  scolding  wife; 
But  just  wait  a  minute,  and  then  you  '11  see 
He'll  beat  her  within  an  inch  of  her  life. 
Walk  in !  take  a  seat  and  you'll  see  her  beat, 
And  a  penny  is  all  you  pay  for  the  treai. 


WHERE  shall  we  go  to  next?  they  still  would  say, 
And  still  they  found  new  pleasures  every  day. 
At  times  Miss  Earle  took  Bertie  for  a  ride, 
With  little  Rose  and  Mabel  side  by  side; 
And  then  their  father  took  the  elder  two 
To  see  the  picture  galleries,  and  view 
Historic  buildings,  where  they  sometimes  rested, 
And  many  a  bit  of  history  was  suggested. 
They  saw  a  wedding  at  the  Madeleine, 
Then  went  to  "  Notre  Dame,"  close  by  the  Seine, 
And  climbed  the  lofty  tower,  to  see  the  view 
Which  cannot  be  surpassed  the  whole  world  through. 
One  day  their  father  took  them  all  to  see 
A  great  museum,  full  as  full  could  be 
Of  rare  old  furniture,  of  every  kind 
The  artists  of  the  "  Middle  Age  "  designed ; — 
And  precious  things  in  silver  and  in  gold, 
Made  by  the  best  artificers  of  old. 
Now  while  another  way  the  party's  eyes 
Are  turned,  "  King  Henry's  Staircase  "  Bertie  spies, 
And  climbing  up,  with  help  from  sister  May, 
He  calls  to  Dennis,  when  he  gets  half-way, 
"  Come  catch  me  quick ! " — and  then  runs  off,  with  peals 
Of  merry  laughter, — Dennis  at  his  heels. 


39 


T)  ERTIE  was  first.    "  I  've  won  the  race,"  he  cried  ; 
J3  But  soon  upon  his  lips  the  triumph  died, 
And  Bertie  back  in  fear  to  Dennis  ran : — 
"Oh  Dennis,  look  !  I  ran  against  that  man  ! 
He  shook  and  rattled  so,  and  wagged  his  head, 
And  gave  me  such  a  fright !  "  "  Pooh  ! "  Dennis  said, 
"  He  will  not  hurt ! "   And  then  he  made  a  bow: — 
Good-bye,  old  soldier,  we  must  leave  you  now. 
VTEXT  afternoon,  while  at  the  Zoo',  a  little  tale  they  heard 
1\  Of  the  elephant  that's  there,  and  you  shall  hear  it  word  for  word. 


JAMNdACCLIMATATION 


50  CENTIMES 


PRESENTER  CE  BILLET  ATOUTE 
REQUISITION 


VALABLE  pour  le  Jour  meme 


TV  jl  UMBO  and  Jumbo,  two  elephants  great, 

•*•'•*  From  India  travelled,  and  lived  in  state, 

In  Paris  the  one,  and  in  London  the  other  : 

Now  Mumbo  and  Jumbo  were  sister  and  brother. 

A  warm  invitation  to  Jumbo  came, 

To  cross  the  Atlantic  and  spread  his  fame. 

Said  he,  "  I  really  don't  want  to  go — 

But  then,  they're  so  pressing! — I  can't  say  No!" 


So  away  to  America  Jumbo  went, 
But  his  sister  Mumbo  is  quite  content 
To  stay  with  the  children  of  Paris,  for  she 
Is  as  happy  an  elephant  as  could  be  : 
"  I  've  a  capital  house,  quite  large  and  airy 
Close  by  live  the  Ostrich  and  Dromedary, 
And  we  see  our  young  friends  every  day,"  said  she 
"Oh,  \\  here  is  the  Zoo' that  would  better  suit  me? 


JARDIN  D'ACCLIMATATION 

TRAMWAYS 


tN 


LE  LAC  DU  JARDIN  00 

a     la  -^ 

PORTE   MAILLOT  O 

55  CENTIMES  CS 


A  STEADY  steed  is  Mumbo,  if  just  a  trifle  slow; 
Upon  her  back  you  couldn't  well  a-steeple-chasing  go  : 
But  other  opportunities  there  are  to  have  a  ride, 
For  there's  a  stud  of  ponies,  and  a  camel  to  bestride — 
A  cart  that's  drawn  by  oxen  can  accommodate  a  few, 


And  if  such  queer  conveyances  don't  please  you  at  the  Zoo', 
There  are  little  tramway  cars  too,  with  seats  on  either  side, 
Which  will  take  you  through  the  gardens,  and  through  the  Bois  beside  :- 
Take  the  ticket  on  the  other  page,  and  with  it  you  may  go 
From  the  lake  within  the  garden  to  the  gate  that's  called  Maillot. 


IE  SWANS 


O  O  !  pretty  swans, 
Do  you  know,  in  our  Zoo' 
The  swans  of  old  England 
Are  just  like  you  ?" 


"  Don  t  tejl  me  ! 

Said  a  cross  old  bird  ; 
"  I  know  better, 

The  thing 's  quite  absurd 


;i  Their  figures,  I  'in  sure, 
Are  not  worth  a  glance  : 

If  you  want  to  see  style, 
You  must  come  to  France 


With  a  scornful  whisk 
The  swan  turned  tail, 

Spread  its  wings  to  the  breeze 
And  was  off  full-sail. 


"  Ho  !  pretty  swan, 

Do  you  know,  in  our  Zo 

The  swans  are  not  half 
So  conceited  as  you  ? " 


43 


A  FLOWER  STALL  ON 


THE   BOULEVARDS 


LOOK  at  Mere  Victorine 
At  her  stall  in  the  street 
With  the  lily  and  rose, 
And  the  white  marguerite, 
She  makes  pretty  bouquets 
The  whole  of  the  day : 
There  are  buyers  in  plenty 
Who  pass  by  that  way. 
Little  Basil  and  Amelie, 
Watching  her,  stand : 
Up  to  Mere  Victorine 
Basil  stretches  his  hand, 
••  Can't  you  spare  me,"  says  he, 
''A  morsel  of  green, 
Or  one  sweet  little  flower, 
( )ood  Mere  Victorine  ?  " 
li  If  you  come  for  a  flower, 
Fray  where  is  your  sou  /  " 
Answers  Mere  Victorine, 
"  I  can't  give  one  to  you — 
Such  flowers  as  mine 
Are  for  selling,  you  know ; 
You  must  go  to  the  country, 
\Yhere  wild  flowers  grow." 


7 


A    DAY   AT    VERSAILLES. 


AT  Versailles,  as  perhaps  you  have  heard, 
Countless  pictures  ot  fights 
Form  the  chief  of  the  sights: 
Could  so  many  great  battles  have  ever  occurred? 


No  wonder  our  children  the  gardens  preferred  :— 
For  the  fountains  were  really  so  pretty  a  sight, 
That  Bertie  declared — and  I  think  he  was  right- 
It  was  better  to  play 
Like  the  fountains  all  day, 
Than  such  terrible  battles  to  fight. 


45 


46 


FONTAINE 


DES      INNOCENTS 


e  9 


C  3 

c*TTe  aTj 


ROUND  this  pretty  fountain  here 
Sparrows  gather  all  the  year ; 
In  its  sparkling  waters  dip, 
From  its  basin  freely  sip, 
Round  about  their  fountain  play, 
Safe  and  happy  all  the  day; — 
Little  "innocents"  are  they. 
That  is  Antoine,  bread  in  hand ; 
See  him  by  his  mother  stand : 
Saucy  little  birdies  spy 
Antoine's  bread,  and  at  it  fly, 
Trying  each  to  get  a  share, 
Frightening  little  Antoine  there. 
Antoine  does  not  wish  to  share, 
Thinks  the  bread  is  all  his  right, 
Just  to  suit  his  appetite. 
Mother  says,  "Be  kind,  my  son, 
There  is  more  when  this  is  done ; 
Bread  enough  for  thee  at  home  : — 
Let  the  pretty  sparrows  come  ; 
Give  them  each  a  little  crumb." 

Here  our  little  family 
Near  the  fountain  too,  we  see, 
Walking  through  the  open  space 
To  the  covered  market-place. 


ONT 


C  9 


47 


48 


THE  MARKETS  OF 
->  PARISH- 


&<£) 


HERE  from  morning  till  night  they  are  selling  and  buying, 
And  from  morning  till  night  their  market  wares  crying: 

All  around  you  will  find  there  is  food  of  each  kind  ; 

There  are  flesh,  fowl,  and  fish  here  for  every  dish. 

The  fish-market  you  see  on  the  opposite  page : 

On  this  stall  that  is  nearest,  the  shell-fish  appear  ; 

But  were  I  to  begin,  it  would  take  me  an  age 

To  tell  you  the  names  of  the  fish  you  find  here. 

See!  there's  puss  looking  out  for  what  she  can  get, 

And  that  little  boy  who  is  laughing  is  Paul, — 

The  girl  with  the  lobster  is  sister  Lisette, 

And  he's  watching  to  see  if  it  nips  her  at  all. 

Madame  Blaise,  there,  tells  Nellie  her  mussels  are  good, 

But  Nellie  smiles  sweetly  and  goes  on  her  way, 

And  I  venture  to  doubt  if  she  quite  understood 

All  the  funny  French  things  Madame  B!aise  had  to  say. 

Other  parts  of  the  market  contain  butchers  meat, 

And  poultry,  and  fruit,  and  salads,  and  greens, 

And  here,  if  you  want  them,  quite  young,  fresh  and  sweet, 

Air  the  haricots  verts  which   we  know  as  "French  beans." 

For,  from  morning  till  night  here  they  re  selling  and   buying, 
And  from  morning  till   night  their  market  wares  crying. 


"PTr~r~~-. 


Ju 


"HOSE  and  Bertie  have  a  ride  ; 
Mabel,  walking  at  their  side, 
Carries  both  the  dolls,  and  so 
By  the  Luxembourg  they  go. 


IN  THE 
LUXEMBOURG  GARDENS. 


Over  in  that  Palace  soon —  Hear  that  woman,  "  Who  will  buy 

For  the  clock  is  marking  noon —  Windmill,  ball,  or  butterfly  " — 

The  "  Senate  "  will  together  come  Josephine  and  Phillipe,  see, 

( Like  our  "  House  of  Lords  "  at  home).  Eager  as  they  both  can  be. 

Charles  before  her,  silent  stands, 
With  no  money  in  his  hands, 
No  more  sous — he  spent  them  all 
On  that  big  inflated  ball. 


Be  content,  my  little  friend, 
Money  spent  you  cannot  spend ; 
With  your  good  St.  Bernard  play. 
Buy  more  toys  another  day. 


5' 


IT  ERE  all  the  day  long, 

Are  race-horses  for  hire, 
That  never  go  wrong. 
And  besides,  never  tire. 
Here  all  the  day  long, 
Are  race-horses  for  hire. 


Who  will  come  for  a  ride  ? 
Horses,  lions,  all  ready  ! 
Bear  or  tiger  astride, 
You  shall  sit  safe  and  steady. 
Who  will  come  for  a  ride  ? 
Lions,  horses,  all  ready  ! 


Round  and  round  they  canter  slow — soon  they  fast  and  faster  go  ; 
Look  at  Louis,  all  in  white,  Gaspard,  almost  out  of  sight, 
Rose  and  Mabel  side  by  side  ; — Bertie  watching  while  they  ride. 
Dennis  waits  till  they  have  done, — much  too  big  to  join  the  fun  ; 
Brother  Paul,  with  serious  air,  minds  his  little  sister  Claire, 
Thinking  if  he  had  a  sou,  she  should  have  some  pleasure  too. 


VELYSEESv 
~ 


K 


NOW,  with  regret,  they  've  said  Good-bye  to  Paris  bright  and  gay  ; 
To  Calais  they  are  drawing  nigh — you  see  them  on  their  way. 
To  travel  thus,  all  through  the  night,  at  first  they  thought  was  fun. 
But  by  degrees  they  grew  less  bright,  as  hours  passed  one  by  one. 
Then  Nellie  to  her  sisters  said,  "  Let 's  have  an  extra  rug, 
And  make-believe  we  're  home  in  bed,  and  cuddle  close  and  snug, 
And  try,  until  the  night  has  passed,  which  can  most  quiet  keep." 
Then  all  were  tucked  up  warm  and  fast,  and  soon  fell  sound  asleep. 


The  happy  time  abroad,  again  in  dreams  is  all  gone  o'er— 
Again  in  Paris,  as  it  seems,  they  watch  the  crowd  once  more. 
The  "Elysian  Fields,"  beneath  the  trees,  are  peopled  with  a  throng 
Of  loveliest  dolls,  which  at  their  ease  converse,  or  ride  along  ; 
And  wondrous  "Easter  Eggs"  in  nests,  abundant  lie  around, 
And  "  April  Fish  "  with  golden  vests  and  silver  coats,  abound  ! 
Such  fleeting  fancies  Dreamland  lends  to  pass  the  time  away 
Until  the  railway  journey  ends,  just  at  the  break  of  day. 


PORTE    DE    LA    MER.    CALAIS. 

r J^HE  last  place  where  they  stopped  abroad  wns  Calais,  which,  you  know. 
*•     Belonged  to   England  once — though  that  was  many  a  year  ago  : 
It  has  a  beautiful  old  Tower,  all  weatherworn  and  brown, 
And   here  's  the  Sea-Gate,  opening  from  the  walls  that  guard  the  town. 
But  now  Farewell  to  Merry  France !  the  vessel  ready  waits 
To  take  our  party  back  again  across  the  Dover  Straits. 


HOMEWARD       BOUND. 

HURRAH!  we're  afloat,  and  away  speeds  the  boat  as  fast  as  its  paddles  can  go, 
With  the  wind  on  its  back,  and  a  broad  foaming  track  behind  it,  as  white  as  the  snow. 
On  board,  every  eye  is  strained  to  descry  the  white  cliffs  of  our  own  native  land, 
And  brightly  they  gleam,  as  onward  we  steam,  till  at  length  they  are  close  at  hand. 
The  sun  shines  with  glee  on  the  rippling  sea,  and  the  pennant  strung  high  on  the  mast. 
But  at  length  it  sinks  down  behind  the  grey  town,  and  tells  us  the  day  is  nigh  past. 
See,  there  is  the  port,  and  near  it  a  fort,  and  the  strong  old  Castle  of  Dover — 
We  're  close  to  the  shore — just  five  minutes  more,  and  the  Channel  Crossing  is  over. 
Then  all  safe  and  sound  upon  English  ground,  we  bid  farewell  to  the  sea — 
Jump  into  the  train,  and  start  off  again  as  fast  as  the  engine  can  flee. 
We  run  up  to  town,  and  thence  travel  down   to  the  home  in  the  country,  at  night ; 
Then.  I  'm  sorry  to  say,  dear  Nellie  and  May,   Rose,  Dennis,  and  Bertie  bright, 
We  must  leave  in  their  home  till  next  holidays  come,  when,  let  all  of  us  hope,  it  may  chance 
That  our  trip  will,  next  Spring,  be  as  pleasant  a  thing  as  our  swallow-flight  over  to  France. 


55 


BON 


NOW  THAT  AT  LAST  WE'RE  SAFELY   BACK  AGAIN. 
AND  .AS  UPON  THE   RAILWAY  BRIDGE  THE  TRAIN 
IS  STAYED  SOME   MOMENTS,  LET  US  SAY  GOOD-BYE. 
AND  ASK  IF  YOU'VE  ENJOYED  THE  TRIP.  AND  TRY 
To  THINK  THAT  SOON  AGAIN  WE'RE  SURE  TO   MEET, 
ON  COUNTRY   ROAD  OR  IN  THE  CROWDED  STREET, 
AND  ERE  WE  PART,  STILL  LINGER   FOR  A  WHILE, 
VIEWING  THIS  TRANQUIL  SCENE  WITH  PENSIVE  SMILE,- 
TriE  EVENING  GLOW.  THE  RIVER'S  FALLING  TIDE, 
SAINT  PAULS  FAMILIAR  DOME  AND  LONDON'S  PRIDE. 


THOMAS  -CRANE 


ABROAD 


HOUGHT 


MARCUS    •    WARD   •    £  •  CO 


r  i  ,  \    \ 


LONDON    •    BELFAST  •  NEW-YORK 


COMPANION   VOLUME   TO 

At  HOME 


UNIFORM   IN   SIZE  AND  PRICE 


•*:•* 


