BL. 

2003 
S4 


UC-MRLF 


$B  H65  ea^ 


in 

CM 
C\J 

in 
>- 


AGASTYA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 


BY 


K.  N.  SIVARAJA  PILLAI.  B.A. 

Reader  in  Tamil,  University  of  Madras. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  MADRAS. 
Price  Rupee  One.]  [Foreign  1  s.  6  d. 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2007  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/agastyaintamillaOOsivari.ch 


AGASTYA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 


BY 
K.  N.  SIVARAJA  PILLAI.  B.A. 

Reader  in  Tamil,  University  of  Madras. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  MADRAS. 


Price  Rupee  One.] 


[Foreign  1  s.  6  d. 


mr 


"^v 


PRINTED  AT 
THE  MADRAS  LAW  JOURNAL  PRESS 
MYLAPORE 


CONTENTS. 

Section.  PAGE, 

i.  Introduction. 
Universality  of  the  Agastya  tradition  in  the  Tamil 
country — its  rise  from  Rgvedic  Times — Agastya 
not  included    among  the   Prafdpatis — Agastya 
and  the  Star  Canopus.  . .  1 

ii.  Agastya^s  birth. 
Incredible  myths  about  his  birth — his  divine  parent- 
age. •  •  "2 

iii.  Earlier  Myths. 

The  earlier  group,  Aryan  and  the  later  group, 
Dravidian — Parallelism  between  these  groups — 
Aryan  source  of  the  Dravidian  myths — Attempt 
to  Dravidianise  the  Agastya  myth — Fanciful 
derivation  of  the  name  Agastya  from  Akathi — 
Agastya  not  a  Dravidian  Saint.  . .         2-4 

iv.  Reflections. 

Contact  with  nature-myths — Agastya's  cursing 
proclivity — Persons  who  have  suffered  from  his 
curses — his  tutelage  under  Siva,  Muruga,  and  the 
Sun-God.  ..4-5 

V.  His  Exodus  to  the  South. 

Three  strata  of  traditions  :  (l)  his  residence  near 
Nasik — marries  Lopamudra  and  meets  Rama 
while  here,  (2)  his  residence  at  Malakuta,  East 
of  Badami — Destruction  of  Vatapi  and  Ilvala 
takes  place  here,  (3)  his  residence  at  Pothiyil 
in  the  Pan^ya   country — his  founding  the  first 

aQHonQ 


jv  CONTENTS 

Section.  PAGE 

Tamil  Academy  and  writing  the  first  Tamil 
Grammar — Two  more  strata  of  legends  :  (4)  his 
visits  to  Indonesian  Islands,  (5)  his  travels  to 
Siam  and  Cambodia — his  marrying  Yasomati — 
additional  legends  by  later  Puranic  writers — 
Agastya's  attempt  to  plant  Aryan  religious  rites 
in  the  South — high  veneration  in  which 
Agastya's  name  is  held — Tamil  race  adopting 
him  as  their  spiritual  guide.  . .        5-9 

vi.  Appraisement  of  Tradition. 

Tradition,  natural  background  of  history — it  is  a 
means  of  understanding  some  aspects  of  man's 
spiritual  evolution — necessity  of  scientific  sifting 
of  traditions — scientific  temper,  method  and 
sympathetic  imagination  necessary  for  such  sift- 
ing— Traditions  to  be  trustworthy  should  be  free 
from  internal  inconsistencies  and  contradic- 
tions and  should  claim  unbroken  continuity 
with  the  time  of  its  origin.  . .       9-10 

vii.  Antiquity  of  Tradition. 

Not  earlier  than  when  the  Aryans  crossed  the 
Vindhyas — Tide  of  xA.ryan  migration  along  the 
course  of  the  Ganges — its  south-westerly  course 
to  Orissa — Reference  in  the  Aitareya  Brahmana 
to  certain  Dasyu  tribes  on  the  outskirts  of  the 
Vindhyas — Dr.  Bhandarkar  on  Panini's  want  of 
knowledge  of  South  India — Berars,  the  oldest 
Aryan  province  in  the  South — Agastya  marrying 
Lopamudra,  daughter  of  the  King  of  Berar — 
T'estimony  of  the  Ramayana — Testimony  of 
Ktesias  of  Knidos  and  Megasthenes^want  of 
reference  to  the  South  in  their  works — Katya- 
yana's  imperfect  knowledge  of  the  South — 
Patanjah's  reference   to  the  South.  . .     10-15 


CONTENTS  V 

Section.  PAGE. 

viii.  Agastya  in  the  Tamil  country. 

Ptolemy's  reference  to  Bettigo  and  his  silence 
about  Agastya — Tamil  Classical  Literature  has 
no  reference  to  Agastya — Nacchinarkkiniyar's 
attempt  to  introduce  the  Agastya  legend  into 
Maduraikanchi — His  interpretation  examined 
and  rejected  ^Paripadal  a  late  Sangam  work. .     15-18 

ix.  Agastya  Tradition — its  post-classical 
origin. 

Aryans  and  Dravidians — their  distinctive  national 
characteristics — Pre-Aryan  South  India  compara- 
tively free  from  Myths — Mythic  lore  mostly 
imported  from  the  north.  . .    18-21 

X.  Agastya  Tradition — its  post  Jainistic 
origin. 

Buddhist  Tradition  associates  Pothiyil  with 
Avalokitesvara — Agastya  tradition  later — Due  to 
religious  schisms  then  prevalent.  . .    21-26 

xi.  Predisposing  causes   for  the  accept- 
ance of  the  Agastya  tradition. 

Three  in  number  :  (i)  Appeal  to  the  sense  of  racial 
dignity,  (ii)  The  high  character  and  religious 
sanctity  of  the  early  Brahmans,  (iii)  The 
decadence  of  the  Tamils.  . .     26-32 

xii.   Agastya  Tradition  in  the  Ramayana. 
Irreconcilable    references     to     Agastya    in      the 
Ramayana — Agastya  tradition  rises  after  the  4th 
century  A.D.  . .     32-34 

xiii.  Agastya  Tradition  and  Tolkappiyam. 

No  reference  to  Agastya  in  Tolkappiyam — none 
by  Panamparanar  and  Atankottasan,  two  other 
students  of  Agastya.  . .     34-36 


a  CONTENTS 

Section,  PAGE. 

xiv.  Agastya's  wotks. 

Sangam  Tradition  and  Agastya— Agastya's  iniscel- 
laneous  writings  in  Tamil — their  spurious 
character — His  Grammar  '  Agattiyam  '  —  The 
modern  character  of  its  Sutras — criticism  of  their 
style  and  contents.  . .     36-43 

XV.  Agastya  Sutras  and  Tolkappiyam. 

Agastya  Sutras  later  than  Tolkappiyam — The 
tripartite  division  of  Tamil  into  lyal,  Isai,  and 
Natakam,  a  later  classification.  . .     43-45 

xvi.  Agastya  Sutras — a  later  forgery. 

Agastya  Siitras  composed  by  different  authors    at 

different  times.  . .    45-47 

xvii.  Agastya     Tradition     in     later    Tamil 
Literature. 

Stanzas    from    Pannirupadalam^  Purapporulvenba- 

mdlai,  Agapporulvilakkam,  Divakaram^  quoted.       47-48 

xviii.  Agastya   Tradition  in  Tamil  Puranic 
Literature. 

References  to  eight  Puranas — Their  testimony 
worthless,  for  historic  purposes — Faultiness  of 
using  inductive  methods  in  respect  of  their 
materials.  •  •     48-50 

xix.  Apotheosis  of  Agastya. 

Construction  of  a  temple  in  honour  of  Agastya — 
Alliance  of  Agastya  cult  with  Saivism — Agastya 
cult  in  the  Indonesian  Islands  and  Cambodia — 
Fresh  recrudescence  of  myths  in  peninsular 
India.  ..    50-54 

XX.  Intrinsic  improbabilities. 

Critical  Examination  of  the  Agastya  legends — Five 
reasons  to  reject  them  as  historically  unworthy 
of  acceptance.  . .     54-57 


CONTIlNTa  Vil 

Section,  PAGE, 

xxi.  Agastya— a  historical  individual. 

National  migrations  due  not  to  single  individuals 
but  to  social  forces — aryanisation  of  different 
parts  of  South  India  cannot  be  ascribed  to  a 
single  period  of  time — difference  of  social  condi- 
tions in  different  localities  necessitates  our 
assuming  more  than  one  Agastya  for  the  work. .    57-61 

xxii.  Agastya — A  semi-historic  personage. 

Agastya's  place  in  Aryan  history  in  North  India — 
His  translation  to  the  South  bristles  with  histori- 
cal difficulties.  . .    61-62 

xxiii.   Agastya — an  allegorical  character. 

Agastya  legend  taken  as  typifying  the  aryanisation 

of  South  India.  . .    62-63 

xxiv.   Conclusion. 

Agastya   legend    viewed    from  a   strict  Dravidian 

point  of,  view  . .    63-64 


AGASTYA  IN  THE  TAMTL  LAND' 


No  tradition  is  so  widespread  throughout  the  length  and 

breadth  of  the  Tamil  country  as  that 
Introduction.  *        ^  i  i  • 

concernmg  sage  Agastya  and  his  nume- 
rous exploits.  Of  all  the  mythic,  semi-historic  and 
historic  personages  of  the  Aiyan  annals,  who  have  figured 
in  South  Indian  History,  Agastya  has  occupied  the  fore- 
most place  and  secured  the  largest  homage  of  the  cultured 
and  the  masses  alike.  He  meets  us  from  the  very  start  of 
Aryan  History,  being  a  composer  of  certain  hymns  of  the 
■earliest  of  the  Vedas,  the  Rg  Veda.  Still  he  seems  to 
have  been  not  included  amongst  the  seven  holy  sages, 
the  PrajdpatiSf  or  the  progenitors  of  the  human  race. 
These  were  Gotama,  Bharadwaja,  Viswamitra^  Jama- 
dagni,  Vasistha,  Kasyapa  and  Atri.  Even  later  Puranas, 
like  the  Vdyu  and  the  Visnu,  w^Mch  have  amplified  the 
list  of  the  primitive  sages  by  including  Bhrgu  and 
Daksa,  have  only  quietly  passed  Agastya  over.  This 
circumstance  may  lend  some  colour  of  support  to  the 
doubt  whether  Agastya  is  not  after  all  the  sage  of  a 
later  day.  However  that  be,  posterity  has  made  ample 
amends  for  this  omission  by  raising  him  to  a  still 
higher  position  and  assigning  him  a  place  among  the 
Stars.  The  Star  Canopus,  which  sheds  its  brilliance  in 
the  Southern  heavens,  is  believed  to  be  none  other  than 
the  austere  Sage  Agastya,  the  semi-divine  benefactor  of 
the  human  race,  who  has  been  thus  honoured  by  a  grateful 
posterity. 


2  AGASTVA  IX  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

It  is  no  wonder  that  this  famous  figure  should  have- 
become    the    centre    of     multifarious 
HisWrth.  ^,  .  ,.  „.  i        ^     •    ^ 

mythic   accretions.     His    advent    into 

this  world,  equally  with  his  translation  to  the  starry 
heavens,  falls  beyond  human  belief  and  even  conception. 
He  is  known  as  Kalasaja,  Kalasisutay  Kumhhayonij. 
Kiunbhasomhkava J  Ghatodbhava  (the  pot-born),  from  the 
fact  that  he  was  born  from  the  seed  of  Mitra  received  and 
preserved  in  a  pot.  The  story  runs  that  once  upon  a  time 
both  Mitra  and  Varutia  had  a  sort  of  love  contest  in  res- 
pect of  the  heavenly  damsel  U^rvasI  and  that  they  could 
not  do  anything  more  than  depositing  their  fertile  seed,, 
one  in  a  pot  and  the  other  in  the  sea.  In  time,  Agastya 
was  born  from  the  pot  and  Vasistha,  one  of  the  reputed 
Saptarsis,  started  his  life  from  the  sea.  From  this 
divine  parentage  Agastya  is  called  also  Maitra-Varuni  and 
Ourvasiya.  There  are  variations  of  this  story  in  later 
traditions;  but  it  serves  no  purpose  to  recount  them  here. 
One  fact  is  plain  enough  from  Agastya's  biography,  that 
to  ordinary  mortals  his  birth  is  as  mysterious  as  his  trans- 
lation to  a  star.  From  the  trend  of  the  primitive  Aryan 
mind  to  revel  in  the  supernatural,  one  should  be  inclined 
to  be  cautious,  to  the  extent  of  even  scepticism,  in  seek- 
ing to  reach  a  nucleus  of  truth  in  an  overgrowth  of 
materials  legendary  to  the  core.  Still  one  miy  be  allow- 
ed the  consolation  that  even  after  discounting  ti:e  value 
of  the  miraculous  and  mythical  chaff  in  the  life  of  this 
sage,  there  may  yet  remain  certain  solid  grains  of  human 
history  which  could  be  garnered  into  the  historic  store  of 
the  ancient  Aryans.  How  far  and  in  what  manner  that 
can  be  effected  without  doing  violence  to  the  demands 
of  normal  human  reason  remains  a  problem  to  this  day. 
The  myths  that  have  gathered  round  this  Aryan  sage 
fall  into  two  broad  classes,  the  earlier 
Earlier  Myths.  ^^^^  ^^^  ^^^^^^    j^j^  so-called  Exodus  to 


AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND  3 

the  South  from  Aryavarta  serves  to  divide  the  incidents 
into  the  Aryan  and  the  Dravidian  group  of  myths.  From 
the  point  of  view  of  the  historical  investigator,  there  is 
hardly  any  ground  for  distinctive  choice  between  them. 
Both  run  on  parallel  lines  and  are  steeped  in  the  mira- 
culous through  and  through.  The  Himalaya  mountain 
of  the  northern  myth  is  replaced  by  the  Pothiyil  of  the 
South;  Agastya's  composition  of  many  Rg  Vedic  hymns 
and  medical  works  in  Samscrit  is  answered  by  his  nume- 
rous mystic  and  medical  treatises  in  Tamil;  his  effort  in 
bringing  down  the  Ganges  with  the  consent  of  ^iva  {vide 
Kasi  Kandam)  finds  an  echo  in  his  getting  Tamraparni 
from  ^iva  and  his  bargaining  with  God  Ganesa  for 
Kaveri;  his  seat  in  Benares  seems  to  be  replaced  by  his 
abode  in  Badami,  known  as  Daksina  Kasi;  his  marriage 
with  Lopamudra,  the  daughter  of  a  Vidarbha  King,  has 
also  a  parallel  in  his  wedding  of  Kaveri,  the  daughter 
of  King  Kavera;  and  taking  into  consideration  the 
curses,  which  had  issued  from  his  spiritual  armoury 
in  the  north,  his  curse  of  Tolkappiyar,  his  own  student, 
shows  unmistakably  how  the  dwarf  sage — for  on  ac- 
count of  lis  diminutive  size  he  was  known  as  Kuril- 
muni  also — kept  true  to  his  old  habits,  in  the  far- 
away South.  This  parallelism  is  sufficient  to  establish 
that  the  southern  myths  are  largely  mere  echoes  of  the 
northern  and  may  be  presumed  to  have  been  due 
either  to  a  pure  Aryan  source  in  the  South  or  to  a 
Dravidian  origin  borrowing  its  motif  and  whole  inspira- 
tion from  the  Aryan.  Incidentally,  it  may  be  interesting 
to  refer  to  some  recent  attempts  to  make  out  of  this  far- 
famed  Aryan  protagonist  an  indigenous  saint  of  blue 
Dravidian  blood.  The  fanciful  theorizers,  who  have 
been  led  to  do  this,  have  been  driven,  in  the  absence  of 
sober  grounds,  to  invoke  to  their  aid  Philology — a  frail 
reed  to  lean  upon.   They  connect  Agastya,    or   Akattiyan 


4  AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

in  Tamil,  with  Akatti  {^s^^)  tree  and  elaborate  for  the 
occasion  a  fable  that  the  Saint  being  a  physician  himself 
was  very  fond  of  Akatti  and  had  it  planted  round  his 
hermitage.  Here  we  find  myth  opposing  myth  and  the 
ends  of  natural  justice  more  than  satisfied.  But,  apart 
from  any  dialectical  victory,  the  question  for  us  to  con- 
sider is  whether  Agastya  could  be  made  to  claim  a 
Dravidian  parentage.  If  Agastya  were  a  Dravidian  by 
birth,  one  might  justifiably  ask  what  necessity  there  was 
in  the  Southerner  to  duplicate  the  incidents  which  had 
befallen  the  life  of  his  northern  compeer.  Mere 
accident  can  scarcely  be  supposed  to  explain  away  so 
many  points  of  contact  as  we  find  in  the  life-history  of 
this  interesting  couple. 

Taking  the  myths  as  a  whole,  a  few  points  strike  us 

as  worthy  of  mention  here.     Naturally 
Reflections.  ,    ,,  .  ,,.         ..  ^ 

enough  the  name  of  this  antique  figure 

has  been  intertwined  to  a  large  extent  with  nature-myths 
of  the  remotest  antiquity.  His  coming  down  to  the 
South  to  equalise  the  Southern  Hemisphere  with  the 
Northern  in  the  tilted  scale  of  the  heavenly  balance,  his 
suppression  of  the  Vindhya  mountains  and  his  drinking 
up  the  ocean  dry  may  be  connected  with  certain  as- 
tronomical and  geological  phenomena  (of  which  we 
have  no  knowledge  at  present),  coming  as  cataclysms 
once  in  a  way  to  disturb  the  otherwise  uniform  flow  of 
natural  events.  Setting  these  aside,  we  find  that  by  far 
the  greater  number  of  the  miraculous  incidents  which  fill 
his  life  fall  under  the  class  of  curses  of  unerring  potency. 
Indeed  so  free  was  he  with  his  curses  and  so  deep-rooted 
was  the  instinct  of  cursing  in  him  that  one  might  be 
tempted  to  dub  him  the  Cursing  Saint  par  excellence.  He 
was  born  a  dwarf  and  what  he  lacked  in  stature  he  seems 
to  have  more  than  made  up  by  his  acquisition  of  extraor- 
dinary powers  bordering  on  the  miraculous.     His  temper 


AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND  ? 

was  at  no  time  balanced  and  under  the  slightest  provoca- 
tion would  rush  into  an  irate  mood  of  destructive  proclivi- 
ty. Indra,  Nahusa,  L^rvasi,  Ghrtaci.  Madiyanandai^Tataka, 
Sunda,  Kraunca,  Manimanda,  Lopamudra,  and  Tholkap- 
piyar  had  all  to  pay  heavy  penalties,  one  way  or  another, 
for  provoking  him.  A  beneficent  mood  too  he  seems  to 
have  had;  but  very  rarely  could  the  saint  be  prevailed 
upon  to  dole  out  his  benedictions  to  this  sinful  world.  It 
may  be  charitable  to  suppose  that  a  reforming  saint,  as 
our  sage  was  reputed  to  have  been,  must  have  been 
under  special  necessities  at  that  remote  period  to  whip  a 
wicked  world  into  some  sort  of  acceptable  moral  order. 
A  good  deal,  however,  could  be  forgiven  in  one  who  had 
become  the  centre  of  light  and  leading  by  sitting  at  the 
feet  of  God  himself — ^iva,  Muruga,  the  Sun-God,  all  had 
a  hand  in  his  instruction  and  training — and  imbibing 
knowledge  for  the  guidance  of  erring  humanity.  His 
very  mediation  between  God  and  Man  may  be  urged  as  a 
ground  for  measuring  him  by  a  standard  other  than 
what  we  adopt  in  the  judgment  of  ordinary  mortals.  Let 
alone  his  activities  in  Northern  hidia,  the  events  which 
mark  his  progress  towards  the  South  have  an  interest  all 
their  own  for  the  student  of  South  Indian  History. 
Hence  these  deserve  to  be  studied  in  greater  detail. 

Geographically  his  exodus  to  the  Peninsular   India 
divides  itself  into  three   distinct  strata. 

His     Exodus     to     xhe   earliest  finds   him  lodged  in  the 
the  South.  ,  .     ^ 

Agastyasrama,   a    few    miles    north   of 

Nasik,  the  ancient  Pancavati,  on  the  northern  borders 
of  the  Dandakaranya  Forest.  His  marriage  of  Lopamudra, 
the  daughter  of  the  Vidarbha  King  and  Rama's  first  inter- 
view with  him  take  place  here.  The  second  stratum 
begins  with  his  residence  at  Malakuta,  three  miles  east  of 
Badami  (the  ancient  Yatapipura)  otherwise  known  as 
DaksinakasT,    in    the     Kaladgi    District  of  the    Bombay 


6  AGASTYA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

Presidency.  We  must  remember  that  this  new  resi- 
dence is  about  three  hundred  miles  down  south 
from  his  Nasik  Asrama  of  the  first  period. 
Agastya's  eating  up  Vatapi  and  his  destruction  of 
llvala  (known  also  as  Vilvala)  may  be  referred  to 
this  period  of  his  sojourn  in  the  South.  The  third 
stratum  of  stories  gathers  round  him  at  Pothiyil,  known 
also  as  Malaya,  one  of  the  southernmost  promontories 
of  the  Western  Ghats,  in  the  Pandya  country.  With 
such  a  residence  in  the  very  centre  of  the  foremost  Tamil 
Natu  of  those  days,  he  is  credited  with  having  founded 
the  first  Tamil  Academy  and  having  presided  over  it,  be- 
sides writing  an  Extensive  Tamil  Grammar  and  sundry 
other  works  on  medicine,  mysticism,  and  even  magic. 
Tradition,  however,  does  not  leave  him  here  in  his 
southernmost  home,  about  eight  hundred  miles  away 
from  his  Nasik  Asrama.  Two  more  strata  of  legends 
are  added  by  making  him  cross  the  seas.  In  the  fourth 
epoch,  we  find  him  landed  in  the  Indonesian  Islands  in 
the  East,  where  he  is  said  to  have  visited  Barhinadvipa 
(Borneo),  Kusa  Dvlpa,  and  Varaha  Dvipa.  Here  too 
he  appears  to  have  taken  up  his  abode  in  the  Maha 
Malaya  Hill  in  Malaya  Dvlpa.  The  fifth  and  last  stage 
is  reached  when  he  is  made  to  cross  over  to  the  main- 
land and  enter  Siam  and  Cambodia.  It  was  here,  at  the 
end  of  his  ever-lengthening  journey  eastwards,  he  had  to 
marry  a  local  beauty,  Yasomati  by  name,  and  leave  by 
her  a  royal  progeny  among  whom  King  Yasovarma  was 
an  outstanding  personage.  Leaving  out  of  account  the 
exploits  of  his  trans-Indian  tour,  which  happily  many  of 
his  Indian  followers  in  the  mainland  are  unaware  of  to 
this  day,  the  other  layers  of  tradition,  which  cling  to  his 
achievements  on  the  Indian  soil,  have  all  been  laid  one 
over  another  in  the  course  of  a  few  centuries  and  have 
thus  grown  into  a  vast  pile  by  themselves.     To   make 


AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND  7 

1his  *  contusion  worse  confounded',  the  later  Pauranic 
writers  also  have  spun  all  sorts  of  amazing  tales  of 
mystery  and  imagination  round  this  Aryan  sage  without 
an  eye  to  smooth  away  inconsistencies  and  escape  con- 
tradictions. Probably  tliey  may  have  thought  that  the 
sage  was  too  great  a  man  to  sink  under  the  weight  of 
thei'"  legendary  lore. 

As  a  first  step  in  the  so-called  Aryanisation^  of 
Daksinapatha  (Southern  India)  and  Further  India,  the 
northern  tradition  which  has  gathered  round  his  her- 
mitage   near    Dandakaranya    gives    us    a   valuable  clue. 


1.  If  by  'civilization'  one  means  the  possession  of  a 
body  of  literature,  religion  and  philosophy,  as  is  too  often 
done  by  certain  Sanskritists,  then  Dravidian  India  could  be 
truly  spoken  of  as  aryanised.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  term 
signified,  as  it  should,  v.ery  much  more  than  these  very  late 
accomplishments,  as  for  instance  man's  control  of  Nature  by 
wresting  from  it  not  only  the  necessities  but  the  comforts  and 
conveniences  of  life  by  a  well-developed  and  well-ordered 
system  of  arts  in  almost  every  department  of  human  pursuit, 
and  the  consequent  amelioration  of  man's  estate  both  in  his 
individual  and  corporate  existence  in  society  by  all  the  devices 
at  his  command  and  by  all  the  efforts  he  is  capable  of,  then 
more  than  three-fourths  of  the  belongings  of  the  present-day 
life  nmst  go  to  the  credit  of  an  indigenous  civiHzation  the 
Dravidian  has  inherited  from  his  ancestors.  Take  for  in- 
stance, two  of  the  prime  arts  of  life,  Agriculture  and  Architec- 
ture. Where  is  the  Aryanisation  in  them  ?  To  speak  still  of  the 
Aryanisation  of  Dravidian  India,  in  the  extremely  limited 
sense,  is  to  lose  the  right  historical  perspective  and  growing 
even  unfair  to  the  substantial  contributions  of  the  Dravidians 
to  the  stock  of  the  present-day  South  Indian  civilization.  Even 
in  the  field  of  letters,  religion  and  philosophy,  no  student  of 
history  will  be  inclined  to  discount  the  characteristic  share  of 
the  Dravidians,  although  it  may  not  compare  in  quantity  favour- 
ably with  that  of  the  Aryan  nation. 


o  AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

As  al  present,  even  at  that  early  time,  secular  movements,, 
of  which  colonisation  of  countries  may  be  taken  as  a  type,, 
went  in  the  wake  of  missionary  enterprise  and  Agastya's 
trying  to  plant  the  Aryan  religious  rites,  amongst  the 
alien  tribes  of  the  South,  only  furnished  the  opportunity 
for  the  later  expansion  of  the  Aryans  into  the  Southern 
region.  It  would  not  be  true  to  say  that  Agastya  him- 
self was  conscious,  at  the  time,  of  the  far-reaching 
consequences  of  his  acts  pursued  for  other  purposes  than 
land  occupation.  Nevertheless,  being  the  first  man  who 
had  pioneered  the  race  into  a  new  country  of  unmeasured 
potentiality,  he  should  naturally  come  to  be  looked  upon 
as  a  benefactor  of  his  race,  deserving  their  highest  homage 
and  worship.  Theie  is  absolutely  little  or  no  difficulty 
from  the  Aryan  point  of  view  in  explaining  away  the  high 
veneration  in  which  Agastya's  name  is  still  held.  But 
the  real  problem  begins  only  when  we  try  to  approach 
the  subject  from  the  Dravidian  side.  It  is  inconceivable 
how  a  whole  race  could  be  brought  round  to  extol 
a  foreign  leader  of  men  as  the  type  of  perfection  in 
learning,  wisdom,  and  saintliness  and  accept  him  as  their 
own  spiritual  o\'erlord  and  guide.  Here,  at  any  rate, 
we  find  the  extraordinary  phenomenon  of  almost  the 
entire  Tamil  race  of  the  present  day  enthroning  Agastya, 
an  Aryan  Rsi,  in  a  rank  little  removed  from  that  of 
divinity  and  paying  him  homage  as  to  one  of  their  own 
kith  and  kin.  Is  it  possible,  one  may  ask,  for  a  race  *o 
exhibit  such  utter  lack  of  race-consciousness  as  is  here 
displayed?  It  may  be  doubted  whether  the  attempt  to 
make  a  Dravidian  out  of  the  Aryan  sage  has  not  been 
done  witli  a  view  to  cut  the  Gordian  knot,  here  present- 
ed. Howevermuch  race-consciousness  may  feel  flatter- 
ed by  this  daring  feat,  it  is  a  foregone  conclusion  that  no 
scholar  of  any  standing  will  be  found  to  stake  his  repu- 
tation  on   the   acceptance    of   this   new-fangled   theory. 


AGASTVA    IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  9 

After  all,  the  problem  is  not  so  hopeless  as  it  appears 
at  first  sight,  hi  fact,  it  serves  the  great  purpose  of 
driving  us  to  revalue  the  data  on  which  the  Agastya 
legend  has  been  built  up  in  the  Tamil  land. 

In  all  societies,  Tradition  stands  as  the  natural  back- 
ground of  history.  Authentic  history 
^Tradition^*  ^^  ^^"  scarcely  be  said  to  arise  before 
the  invention  of  writing  and  the  vast 
period  in  which  man  had  been  evolving  from  a  primitive 
state  of  existence  is  one  of  haze,  if  not  darkness,  from  the 
standpoint  of  recorded  history.  The  indefatigable 
labours  of  Anthropologists  and  Archaeologists  have 
doubtless  resulted  in  marshalling  other  records  than 
those  in  writing,  which  throw  fairly  good  light  on  the 
life  of  man  in  prehistoric  times;  but  these  unfortunately 
do  not  cover  the  whole  extent  of  man's  spiritual  evolu- 
tion. Except  the  fitful  glimpses  afforded  by  the  artifacts 
left  behind  by  the  primitive  man  into  some  aspects  of 
his  inner  life,  we  have  scarcely  anything  to  enable  us  to 
read  the  whole  extent  and  colour  of  it.  Many  chapters 
in  the  spiritual  evolution  of  man  must  thus  remain  seal- 
ed for  ever.  Scientific  approach  becoming  impracticable 
here,  at  least  Tradition  may  be  expected  to  step  in  to 
throw  a  few  rays  into  the  dark  corridors  of  by-gone 
times.  And  as  a  matter  of  fact,  the  primitive  history  of 
every  race  and  tribe  is  found  to  consist  entirely  of  Tradi- 
tions whose  value  may  vary  according  to  circumstances. 
The  scientific  historian  is  bound  not  to  throw  them  over- 
board en  masse  but  to  sift  them  carefully  and  scrupulous- 
ly, to  arrive  at  whatever  modicum  of  truth  they  may 
contain.  The  task  of  separating  the  ore  from  the  dross 
is,  however,  a  difficult  one  and  few  indeed  can  hope  to 
succeed  in  it  who  does  not  bring  with  him  an  irreproach- 
able scientific  temper  and  method  and  a  sympathetic 
imagination  withal.  In  valuing  traditions  generally,  one 
A— 2 


10  AGASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

has  to  see  first,  whether  they  satisfy  the   most  important 

pre-requisite,   absence    of    internal    inconsistencies    and 

contradictions  and  secondly,  whether  they  can  claim  an 

unbroken  continuity   with  the   remote  past.      Let  us  see 

how  the   Agastya  tradition  fares  judged   as  it  should  be 

by  these  fundamental  tests. 

However  ancient  this  tradition    has  been   made  to 

look    like    in    later  times,    certainly    it 

Antiquity  of  Tra-  ,,  ,.        ..,      /■         j-  r 

dition.  cannot    be  anterior  to  the  foundmg  of 

the  earliest  settlement  of  the  Aryans 
beyond  the  Vindhya  mountains,  which  for  a  long  time 
stood  as  an  impenetrable  barrier  in  their  way  to  the  South. 
The  north-eastern  and  south-western  ends  of  this  chain  of 
mountains  were  known  to  the  inhabitants  of  Aryavarta  as 
Pariyatra,  because  they  marked  the  boundary  of  their 
yatrd  or  range  of  communication.  The  tide  of  Aryan 
Migration  which  was  thus  stemmed  in,  towards  the 
south,  flowed  on  in  an  easterly  direction  along  the  course 
of  the  Ganges  up  to  its  very  mouth  in  the  Bay  of  Bengal. 
Later  on,  it  seems  to  have  overflowed  in  this  corner  taking 
a  south-westerly  course  as  far  as  Utkala — the  modern 
Orissa.  Reference  is  made  in  Aitareya  Brahmana  to  the 
Sage  Viswamitra  having  condemned  by  a  curse  the  proge- 
ny of  fifty  of  his  sDns  to  live  on  the  borders  of  the  Aryan 
settlement  and  these  were  '^  the  Andhras,  Pundras, 
^abaras,  Pulindas,  and  Mutibas  and  the  descendants  of 
Viswamitra  formed  a  large  proportion  of  the  Dasyus.''^ 

1.   Aitareya  Brahmana,  VII,  18. 

cf.  Prof.  Max  Muller's  conclusion  in  pp.  334 — 335  of  his 
History  of  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature. 

"  At  all  events  the  Taittiriya  Aryanyaka  represents  the 
latest  period  in  the  development  of  the  Vedic  religion,  and 
shows  a  strong  admixture  of  post-vedic  ideas  and  names. 
The  same  applies  also  to  several  parts  of  the  Taittiriya  Brah- 
mana, the  last  part  of  which  does  not  belong  to  Taittiri,  but  is 


AGASTYA   IN  THE   TAMIL   LAND  11 

These  tribes  are  referred  to  in  the  later  epics  and  the 
Puranas  as  occupying  the  country  to  the  South  of  the 
Vindhyas,  beginning  from  a  little  to  the  north  of  the 
mouth  of  the  Godavari  in  the  east  to  the  mouth 
of  the  Narmada  in  the  west.  But  this  knowledge  of 
a  few  tribes  to  the  South-east  of  the  Vindhya  range  on 
the  part  of  the  author  of  the  Aitareya  Brahmana  hymn 
does  not  count  for  much.  For,  Panini,  whose  date  on 
the  most  liberal  calculation!  of  Dr.  R.  G.  Bhandarkar 
is  taken  to  be  700  B.  C,  makes  mention  in  his  sutras  of 
Kacca,  Avanti,  Kosala,  Karusa,  and  Kalinga  as  the  far- 
thest countries  in  the  South.  Dr.  Bhandarkar  writes 
'*  Supposing  that  the  non-occurrence  of  the  name  of  any 
country  farther  south  in  Panini's  work  is  due  to  his  not 
having  known  it,  a  circumstance,  which  looking  to  the 
many  names  of  places  in  the  North  that  he  gives  appears 
probable,  the  conclusion  follows  that  in  his  time  the 
Aryans  were   confined  to  the  north  of  the  Vindhya  but 


ascribed  to  Katha,  the  same  Muni  to  whom  the  beginning  of 
the  Aryanyaka  is  said  to  have  been  revealed.  There  are  some 
traces  which  M^ould  lead  to  the  supposition  that  the  Taittiriya 
Veda  had  been  studied  particularly  in  the  South  of  India,  and 
even  among  people  which  are  still  considered  as  un-Aryan  in 
the  Brahmana  of  the  Rg  Veda.  In  the  Taittiriya  Aranyaka 
different  readings  are  mentioned  which  are  no  longer  ascribed 
to  different  Sakhas  but  to  certain  countries  in  the  South  of 
India,  like  those  of  the  Dravidas,  Andhras  and  Karnatakas. 
This  fact  by  itself  would  throw  some  doubt  on  the  antiquity  and 
genuineness  of  the  class  of  Vedic  writings  at  least  in  that  form 
in  which  we  now  possess  them." 

1.  For  instance,  Dr.  Washburn  Hopkins  of  the  Yale 
University  tries  to  ascribe  Panini  to  the  3rd  century  B.  C.  He 
writes  :  "  But  no  evidence  has  yet  been  brought  forward  to 
show  conclusively  that  Panini  lived  before  the  3rd  century 
B.C."     Vide  The  Great  Epic  of  India,  p.  391. 


12  AGASTVA    IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

did  not  proceed  or  communicate  with  the  northern-most 
portion  of  the  Eastern  Coast,  not  by  crossing  that  range^ 
but  by  avoiding  it  by  taking  an  easterly  course."^ 
Thus  then  Agastya  piercing  the  Vindhya  in  his  colo- 
nising expedition  to  the  South  cannot  be  dated 
earlier  than  700  B.  C.  Taking  next  the  references 
made  to  Vidarbha,  the  Berars,  in  both  the  Epics,  the 
Ramayana  and  the  Mahabharata,  Dr.  Bhandarkar  gives 
out  as  his  considered  opinion  that  this  State  was  the 
oldest  Aryan  province  in  the  southern  country. 2  He 
does  not  tell  us  whether  it  was  founded  by  the  Aryans 
who  came  from  the  East  or  by  the  followers  of  Agastya 
who  cut  across  the  Vindhyas  from  the  North.  It  may, 
however,  be  presumed  from  the  tradition  that  Agastya 
gave  the  girl  Lopamudra  to  a  king  of  Vidarbha  to  be 
brought  up  by  him  and  afterwards  claimed  her  for  his 
wife,  that  that  kingdom  must  have  existed  sometime  be- 
fore Agastya's  entering  into  a  marital  alliance  with  one 
of  its  Kings.  Even  supposing  that  the  two  epics  began 
their  existence  at  about  500  B.C. — and  there  are  scholars 
who  bring  down  the  dates  of  the  composition  of  these 
Epics  much  lower — the  Kingdom  of  Vidarbha  must  have 
started  into  existence  sometime  between  700  and  500 
B.  C.  And  in  this  interval  also  Agastya's  meeting  of  the 
Vidarbha  King  must  be  placed.  We  shall  i^.ot  be  far 
wrong  then  if  we  date  the  beginning  of  Agastya's  coloni- 
sing career  somewhere  about  600  B.  C.  If,  on  the  other 
hand,  we  give  weight  to  the  argum.ents  of  scholars  that 
till  ICO  B.  C.  these  celebrated  epics  have  been  undergoing 
material  additions  in  successive  recensions — and  in  fact 
the  force  of  these  arguments  cannot  be  lightly  set  aside — 
we    may   have   to   revise   the    date  to  a  still  lower  level. 


1.  Dr.  Bhandarkar 's  Early  History  of  Deccan,  pp.  12-13, 

2.  Dr.  Bhandarkar's  Early  History  of  Deccan,  p.  7. 


AGASTYA   IN  THE   TAMIL   LAND  13 

Thus  600  B.  C.  is  a  fairly  early  enough  date.  It  was 
about  this  period  that  the  hero  of  the  Ramayana  met 
Agastya,  in  his  Asram  near  Nasik,  the  ancient  Paiica- 
vati.  The  country  to  the  south  of  Vidarbha,  the  site  of 
the  modern  Maharastra,  was  then  an  impenetrable  forest 
known  as  Dandakaranyam  infested  by  fierce  animals  and 
wild  tribes.^  If,  however,  a  higher  antiquity  is  claimed 
for  the  epics,  we  have  to  simply  leave  them  aside  as 
incapable  of  being  brought  into  relationship  with  the 
historical  incidents  of  Aryan  in^migration  into  South 
India.  However  unserviceable  these  epics  may  be  for 
chronological  purposes  of  a  positive  historic  character,  an 
unexpected  light  is  thrown  upon  this  tract  of  time  by  the 
early  Greek  writers.  I  shall  refer  only  to  two  of  the 
earliest  of  them,  Ktesias  of  Knidos  and  Megasthenes,  both 
of  the  4th  century  B.  C.  The  India  of  these  writers  was 
only  India  north  of  the  Vindhyas.  Had  they  received 
any  information  about  the  southern  peninsula,  certainly 
they  would  have  included  it  in  their  otherwise  elaborate 
accounts.  Not  only  this,  the  impression  they  seem  to 
have  formed  is  that  from  Patale  <at  the  mouth  of  the 
Indus  in  the  West  to  Gauge  at  the  mouth  of  the  Ganges  in 
the  East  there  ran  an  almost  straight  coast-line  washed 
by  the  Southern  Ocean.  This  ignorance  on  the  part  of 
the  early  wTiters,  including  Ktesias,  may  have  been  due 
to  various  reasons  and  need  not  concern  us  here  ;  but 
when  we  find  it  pervading  the  writing  of  so  careful  a 
writer  as  Megasthenes,  who  lived  at  the  court  of  Patali- 
putra  and  had  at  his  command  all  the  sources  of  informa- 

1.  Compare  with  this  the  observations  of  such  late  wri- 
ters as  the  author  of  the  'Periplus  of  the  Erythrean  Sea'  and  the 
Chinese  Travellers  of  the  5th  and  the  7th  Centuries  after 
Christ.  They  refer  to  the  extreme  difficulty  of  getting  by  land 
into  S.  India. 


14  AGASTYA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

tion  available  at  the  time,  his  omission  of  South  India 
becomes  truly  significant.  It  could  be  ascribed  to  no 
other  reason  than  the  patent  one,  that  peninsular  India 
was  then  an  unknown  region  in  the  North  and  hence  the 
sources  Megasthenes  must  have  tapped  for  his  account 
could  not  have  furnished  him  with  any  information  re- 
garding the  South.  Even  Katyayana's  reference  to 
Pandya,  and  Cola  in  his  Vartika  marks  only  the  first 
faint  glimmerings  of  an  imperfect  acquaintance  with 
South  India  about  350  B.  C.  which  broadens  subsequently 
into  clear  knowledge  sometime  about  150  B.  C,  the  time 
of  Pataiijali.  Thus  then  the  testimony  of  Sanskrit 
Literature  and  the  early  Greek  writers  places  beyond  a 
doubt  that  Southern  India  about  400  B.  C.  was  almost  a 
terra  incognita  to  the  Northern  Aryans^     Viewed  in  this 

1.  This  conclusion  is  more  than  clinched  by  the  finding 
of  Prof.  A.  A.  Macdonell  in  his  History  of  Sanskrit  Literature: 
pp.  8^9. 

"The  History  of  Ancient  Indian  Literature  naturally  falls 
into  two  main  periods.  The  first  is  the  Vedic,  which  beginning 
perhaps  as  early  as  1,500  B.  C.  extends  in  its  latest  phase  to 
about  200  B.  C.  In  the  former  half  of  the  Vedic  Age  the 
character  of  its  literature  was  creative  and  poetical  while  the 
centre  of  culture  lay  in  the  territory  of  the  Indus  and  its 
tributaries,  the  modern  Punjab  ;  in  the  latter  half,  Literature 
was  theologically  speculative  in  matter  and  prosaic  in  form, 
while  the  centre  of  intellectual  life  had  shifted  to  the  valley  of 
the  Ganges.  Thus  in  the  course  of  the  Vedic  Age  Aryan 
civilization  had  overspread  the  whole  of  Hindustan  proper,  the 
vast  tract  extending  from  the  mouths  of  the  Indus  to  those  of 
the  Ganges,  bounded  on  the  North  by  the  Himalayas,  and  on 
the  South  by  the  Vindhya  range.  The  second  period  con- 
current with  the  final  off-shoots  of  Vedic  Literature  and  closing 
with  the  Mahammadan  conquest  after  1,000  A.  D.  is  the  Sans- 
krit period  strictly  speaking.  In  a  certain  sense,  owing  to  the 
continued  literary  use  of  Sanskrit  mainly  for  the    composition 


AGASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  15 

light  the  very  detailed  and  elaborate  references  to  the 
South  that  we  find  in  the  two  epics  should  be  taken  as 
nothing  better  than  subsequent  interpolations. 

Next;  let  us  see  whether  there  is  anything  in  the 
later  Greek  writers  or  Tamil  Classical 
^Tamlfcountry^^  Literature,  coming  about  the  first  two 
centuries  after  Christ.  There  is  abso- 
lutely nothing  about  this  sage  in  any  of  the  writings  we 
have  now^  taken  up  for  consideration.  Ptolemy  makes 
mention  of  Bettigo,^  the  Pothigai,  a  variant  of  Pothiyil, 
but  passes  on  without  any  allusion  to  the  resident  sage. 
His  silence  is  striking  and  suggestive  if  considered  with 
the  silence  of  the  Tamil  Classical  Literature  taken  as  a 
whole. 

Except  Paripddal^f  which  belongs  very  likely  to  the 
sixth  or  the  seventh  century  A.  D.,  not  a  single  work  is 
there  among  the  ^angam  works — w^orks  shorn  of  course 
of  the  legendary  embellishments  of  later  commentators — 
w^hich  makes  any  mention  direct  or  indirect  or  gives  us 
any  clue  by  name  or  implication  to  the  life  of  this  sage^ 
his  works  or  even  his   very    existence.      In   Pattuppdttu 


of  commentaries,  this  period  may  be  regarded  as  coming  down 
to  the  present  day.  During  this  second  epoch  Brahman  culture 
was  introduced  and  overspread  the  Southern  portion  of  the 
continent  called  the  Dekkhan  or  the  "  South." 

1.  Vide  Appendix  I. 

2.  Judged  by  the  style  and  sentiments  of  the  poems  con- 
tained in  this  work,  few  critics,  I  believe,  will  contend  for  its 
high  antiquity.  The  opinion  is  common  amongst  Tamil  scholars 
that  this  late  production  was  included  in  the  Sangam  collec- 
tion of  writings  to  do  duty  for  the  missing  genuine  Paripadals 
of  old.  Mr.  R.  S.  Narayanaswami  Aiyar,  B.  A.,  B.  L.,  from 
certain  astronomical  calculations,  suggests  372  A.  D.,  as  the 
probable  date  of  the  composition  of  this  Poem.  Vide  Chentamil,. 
Vol.  19,  p.  384. 


16  AGASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

(The  Ten  Idylls)  no  poet  has  referred  to  Agastya  or  his 
civilising  activity  in  behalf  of  the  Tamil  race.  Nor  is 
there  any  reference  to  Pothiyil  as  the  seat  of  Agastya  in 
the  very  heart  of  the  Tamil  country.  No  doubt  the  word 
(QufT^'iSlSo)  Pothiyil  occurs  in  Tiruinurugdrruppatai, 
Mattiraikkanciy  etc.,  but  in  all  of  them  it  means  a  common 
place  of  meeting.  Likewise,  excepting  Paripdtal  as  al- 
ready stated,  in  none  of  the  works  composing  Ettutokai 
(The  Eight  Collections)  is  there  any  reference  to  Agastya. 
In  places  where  the  Pothiyil  hill  is  mentioned  in 
Purandnuru  {vide  stanzas  2  and  128)  or  in  Narrinai  {vide 
stanza  379)  Agastya's  name  does  not  appear.  In  certain 
texts  a  connection  between  the  hill  and  the  Pandya  King 
and  not  the  sage  is  all  that  is  brought  about.  It  is  worthy 
of  note  in  this  connection  how  Nacchinarkkiniyar,  a 
late  commentator,  tries  to  popularise  the  Agastya  cult  by 
twisting  a  few  lines  of  verse  in  Madnraikkdnci  from  their 
most  obvious  and  natural  meaning,  and  thereby  almost 
manufacturing  a  reference  to  the  sage  Agastya.  Here  are 
the  lines  : — 

Its  translation  is  as  follows  :— Oh!  War-like  Prince, 
lord  of  the  hill  resounding  with  waterfalls,  and  known  as 
the  '  Southern  King '  (by  pre-eminence)  and,  in  point  of 
unapproachable  prowess,  standing  second  only  to  that 
ancient  primal  Being  (Siva)  himself.  The  adjectival 
phrase  Q^m(osreup  QljiluBuj  may  also  be  taken  as  qualifying 
Q^irSsTQp^sL^'oi^&r  and  interpreted  as  the  god  who  subdued 
hy  his  might  Yama,  the  Lord  of  the  South.  The  term 
Mutukatavul  qp^s—<si\is(t  is  herein  used  to  distinguish  ^iva 
from  Muruga  or  Kumara,  the  youthful  deity,  his  son. 
>Jacchinarkkiniyar  makes  'Mutukatavul'  denote  Agastya 
and  'Thennavan,'  Ravana,  and  imports  into  the  lines    the 


AGASTVA    IN   THE    TAMIL   LAND  17 

legend  of  Agastya  overcoming  Ravana  in  a  musical  duel 
and  bundling  him  bag  and  baggage  out  of  the  Tamil 
country.  The  intrinsic  improbabilities  of  this  tradition 
apart,  Nachchinarkkiniyar's  interpretation  of  the  text  is 
altogether  far-fetched  and  fanciful.  Two  familiar  words 
have  been  made  to  shed  their  ordinary  significations  and 
stand  for  Ravana  and  Agastya  to  suit  a  pre-conceived 
theorv  of  the  commentator.  Some  may  praise  this 
ingenuity  on  the  part  of  the  commentator,  but  I  am  sure 
no  scholar,  who  goes  direct  to  the  original  verse,  will  fail 
to  catch  its  natural  import.  The  solitary  reference  in  the 
line  ^QuiT^uSim  Qpesfieum  l/sdjqjso/t  ff/z9',  which  occurs  in  the 
11th  Paripdtal  and  refers  to  the  Star  Canopus,  receives 
ils  adequate  explanation  by  the  comparative  lateness  of  the 
period  of  composition  of  that  work.  Barring  this  one 
intrusive  instance,  for  which  the  lack  of  a  chronological 
sense  on  the  part  of  the  redactor  of  the  Sangam  works  was 
responsible,  the  whole  extent  of  Tamil  Classical  Litera- 
ture has  not  a  word  to  say  about  Agastya,  or  his  literary 
labours.  If  it  is  urged  that  a  negative  testimony  of  this 
sort,  an  argumenfum  ex  sileniiOf  is  scarcely  conclusive, 
there  is  the  reply  that  the  absence  of  reference  to  Agastya 
is  certainly  more  than  negative  in  the  special  circum- 
stances of  this  case.  If  a  reference  to  the  Sage  were  to 
be  expected  anywhere  at  all,  undoubtedly  it  must  be  in 
connection  with  the  description  of  the  Pothiyil,  his 
mountain  residence.  Popular  belief  to  this  day  runs  on 
the  line  that  the  immortal  Rishi  is  even  now  living  in  the 
southernmost  peak  of  the  Western  Ghats.  Such  being 
the  case,  a  poet  who  thinks  of  describing  this  particular 
.hill  or  range  should  naturally  be  expected  to  allude  to  its 
saintly  occuoant  on  some  occasion  or  another.  This 
absence  of  reference  to  the  Sage  has  occurred  in  the 
stanzas  not  of  one  poet  only  but  of  a  number  of  them. 
Their  silence  seems  almost  conspired  and  is  accordingly 

A— 3 


18  AOASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

arresting.  One  and  all  of  them  compose  their  verses  in  ut- 
ter unconsciousness  of  the  existence  of  the  Saint  or  his^ 
exploits.  The  only  possible  explanation  for  this  pheno- 
menon of  general  silence  is  that  at  that  time  there  did  not 
exist  even  a  scrap  of  the  Agastya  tradition.  It  was  all  a 
manufacture  of  later  days  and  any  attempt  tc  look  for  it 
in  the  pages  of  these  early  records  must  turn  cut  fruit- 
less. Thus,  about  the  early  centuries  after  Christ,  the 
seed  of  the  Agastya  tradition  had  not  yet  been  sown  in  the 
Tamil  land.  From  the  following  three  lines  of  a  stanza 
of  Poet  Enisseri  Mudamosiyar  (Purandnitriif  128),  one 
can  only  conclude  that  the  Pothiyil  had  not  then  secured 
the  austere  associations  due  to  Agastya's  saintly  presence. 

Naturally  the  question  will   arise    that   myths    being 

the   coinage   of   the  earliest  times  why 

Agastya  tradition     the  Tamil  country  alone    should   show 
— its  post-classi-  *  j-  r     . 

cal^  origin.  '^    reverse    process.     Any    satisfactory 

answer  to  this    legitimate  query  forces 

on    us   the    necessity    of    glancing  a    little    at  the  racial 

characteristics  of  the  Dravidians  and  the  Aryans  taken  as 

a  whole.     I   trust    I   shall  not  be  wrong  in  calling  the 

Ai'yans   predominantly   a   nation    of    thinkers    and   the 

Dravidians  characteristically  a  nation  of  doers.     Not  that 

the  Aryans  had  not  great  men  of  action  amongst  them  nor 

the  Dravidians  great  men  of  thought  in  their  ranks.     But 

the  forte  of  the  national  character  of  the  two  races,  taken 

in  the  lump,  lay  one  in  thought  and  the  other  in  action. 

Although  the  speculative  and  practical    tendencies    of   a 

man    lie   mixed   up   beyond    the    possibility  of  a  definite 

1.  The  term  classical  period  used  in  this  paper  refers  to 
the  period  to  which  the  extant  '  Sangam  works  '  are  ascribed, 
i.e^  the  few  early  centuries  of  the  Christian  Era. 


AGASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  19 

separation,  yet  from  almost  all  the  biographies  of  indivi- 
dual men  we  learn  that  for  one  individual  who  shows  a 
balanced  mental  make-up  there  are  hundred  others  in 
whom  either  the  speculative  or  the  practical  tendencies 
assert  themselves  in  a  more  or  less  decisive  way.  This 
individual  characteristic  runs  through  the  race  also.  The 
ancient  history  of  the  Dravidians  gleaned  from  their 
earliest  records  and  their  later  lives  and  achievements 
lead  us  to  infer  that  they  were  from  the  beginning  a 
highly  practical  race  which  had  given  itself  over  to  sus- 
tained action  in  many  fields  of  practical  pursuit.  They 
seem  to  have  had  no  special  aptitude  for  pure  theorizing 
in  any  direction.  They  were  never  dreamers  and  builders 
of  castles  in  the  air.  They  were  earnestly  and  intensely 
practical  and  the  pragmatic  success,  which  had  crowned 
their  activities  in  Agriculture,  Commerce,  War  and  Poli- 
tics, could  hardly  have  favoured  anything  savouring  of 
theoretic  doubt  and  speculation.  The  fabric  of  civilisation^ 
that  they  thus  built  up  is  indeed  a  massive  one,  though 
it  may  not  show  to  any  great  extent  the  glitter  of  certain 
cultural  accomplishments.  The  Aryans  who  came  amidst 
them  from  the  North  were  however  cast  in  a  different 
mould.  Their  restlessness  from  the  daw^n  of  their  history 
leaned  towards  speculation.  It  would  be  a  mistake  to 
suppose  that  the  tendency  to  speculate  and  theorize 
developed  in  them  per  salium  at  the  time  of  the  Upa- 
nishads.  The  Rig  Vedic  hymns,  though  addressed  to 
numerous  deities  or  forces  of  Nature  for  meeting  the 
every  day  wants  and  necessities  of  the  race,  for  in  short 
helping  it  in  the  various  practical  concerns  in  this 
world,  bear  marks,  it  must  be  admitted,  of  a  peculiar 
theoretic  strain  in  their  composers.  Its  assiduous 
care  in  getting  by  rote  those  hymns  and  handing 
them  down  to  the  remotest  posterity  and  its  unfailing 
1.  Vide  Appendix  II. 


20  AGASTYA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

performance  of  the  rites  and  rituals  laid  down  in  the 
sacred  books  are  certainly  not  the  ways  which  will  appeal 
to  the  hard  matter-of-fact  man  wedded  to  the  practical 
concerns  of  life.  If  such  a  people  could  be  called  practi- 
cal, they  were  practical  in  a  manner  entirely  novel,  not  to 
say  unique,  in  the  history  of  nations.^  Such  a  race  addict- 
ed to  pure  thought  and  theorizing,  in  their  southern 
wandering,  had  to  meet  with  a  race  entirely  alien  in 
modes  of  thought  and  life.  Here  it  had  to  bend  an 
intensely  practical  race  to  its  own  standard  of  perfect 
civilization  or  adapt  itself  to  the  new  type.  And  how 
could  even  this  adaptation  be  effected  ?  Not  certainly  by 
meeting  the  Dravidians  in  their  own  ground  and  achieving 
greater  success  therein — an  alternative  they  could 
scarcely  even  think  of,  in  the  case  of  so  well-equipped  a 
nation  as  the  Tamils  who  could  give  them  points  in  all 
Arts  of  peace  and  war.  There  was  another  and  a  surer 
way  of  approach.  With  all  his  achievements  the  Dravi- 
dian  was  not  strong  in  speculation.  That  was  the 
Achilles'  heel,  which  was  readily  caught  hold  of  by  the 
incoming  Aryans  and  their  grip  of  it  was  indeed  tight. 
Whatever  be  the  achievements  of  the  practical  man  in  any 
•field  of  activity,  he  has  to  bow  down  his  head  before 
knowledge  and  theory  or  what  passed  for  such,  which 
came  in  handy  to  rationalize  and  even  illuminate  practice. 

^  This  is  what  Ihering  says  about  the  Aryans  in  his 
profoundly  interesting  work  "  The  Evolution  of  the  Aryans" 
p.  62. 

'*  This  also  denotes  the  character  of  the  people.  It  was  a 
people  without  the  least  practical  aptitude — the  diametrical 
opposite  of  the  Romans.  Highly  gifted  intellectually  they 
turned  their  tastes  and  thoughts  to  the  inner-world — to  speech, 
religion,  poetry  and  in  later  times  also  with  great  results  to 
philosophy — without  feeling  the  necessity  of  applying  their 
knowledge  to  the  amelioration  of  their  external  conditions." 


AGASTVA   IN  THE   TAMIL   LAND  21 

The  adage  'the  world  is  ruled  by  thought'  appears  to  have 
been  more  than  verified  in  the  matter  of  the  Dravidian- 
Aryan  contact  and  the  present-day  mixed  civilization  of 
Southern  India  is  the  result  of  -  a  healthy  bie^d  pi  the 
two  fundamental  elements  of  human  nature,  brought  into 
the    common    stock    by  two  different  races. 

It  will  now  be  clear  why  the  earliest  history  of  the 
Dravidians  should  bear  very  little  trace  of  any  mytho- 
poetic tendencies  which  lie  at  the  bottom  of  all  myths  in 
general.  Pre-Aryan  Southern  India  was  comparatively 
free  from  myths  and  with  the  advent  of  the  A-ryans  in  the 
South-- Hindus,  Buddhists  and  Jains, — a  vast  mass  of 
mythic  lort^  began  to  make  its  way  into  the  land.  Starting 
from  the  sectarian  controversies  and  schisms  of  the 
various  religious  factions  in  South  India^  the  Hindu,  the 
Jaiii  and  the  Buddhist,  the  Saivite,  the  Vaishnavite,  and 
the  Lingayet,  and  the  many  sub-divisions  of  these,  the 
mythic  rill  seems,  in  a  few  centuries,  to  have  swollen  into 
a  formidable  torrent  and  literally  submerged  the  land  in 
the  Puranic  period  which  comes  very  close  to  our  own 
times. 

It  was  the  late  Mr.  Venkayya,  I  think,  who  drew  the 
attention  of  scholars  to  the  existence  of 
Agastya  tradition  a  Buddhist  tradition  that  Avalokites- 
ticailgin!  ^^^^^  vara,  a  Buddhist  Sage  was  residing  in 
"Podalaga"  or  Pothiyil  mountain.  In 
fact,  that  tradition  goes  much  farther  than  this  and  holds 
that  Agastya  owed  to  Aval  ok  ites  vara  his  initiation  into 
knowledge  as  will  be  seen  from  the  following  stanza,  ap- 
pearing in  the  Payiratn  (Introduction)  of  Vlrawliyamf  a 
Tamil  grammatical  work. 

(ci_ii/ii;  LjQjG^d  QiUihiS^uj  ^em  i^lSI  L^rki(^(oiDirds 


22  AGASTYA    IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

In  settling  the  rival  claims  of  Agastya  and  Avaloki- 
tesvara  for  priority  in  the  occupation  of  the  Pothiyil 
mountain  and  composing  the  first  grammar  of  the  Tamil 
Language,  we  are  thrown  into  the  very  thick  of  the  reli- 
gious warfare  which  raged  in  the  Tamil  land  just  after  a 
few  centuries  from  the  dawn  of  the  Christian  Era.  From 
a  reading  of  the  Tamil  Literature  of  the  earliest  period,  it 
is  not  possible  to  say  that  one  sect  even  before  another 
had  set  foot  in  Tamilagam.  Quite  probably  the  Bud- 
dhists and  the  Jains  may  have  preceded  the  Hindu  Aryans 
in  their  arrival  in  the  Tamil  land  in  the  first  two  centuries 
preceding  the  Christian  Era^  The  picture  afforded  by 
the  early  Tamil  Literature,  however,  is  that  of  a  few 
Brahmans,  orthodox  and  heretic,  leading  isolated  lives 
and  first  feeling  their  way  amongst  an  alien  population. 
In  stanza  166  of  Purandnuru  the  Poet  Aviir  Mulamkilar 
praises  one  Pimcharrur  Parppan  Kauniyan  Vinnantayan 
for  performing  the  twenty-one  yagas,  not  being  misled 
therein  by  the  false  preachings  of  the  heretical  sectaries. 
Evidently  the  poet  seems  to  have  had  the  Buddhist  and 
the  Jaina  Sramans  in  his  mind  as  the  commentator  him- 
self makes  it  plain.     Here  are  the  lines  : — 


L  This  supposition  receives  some  support  from  the  Jain 
traditions  and  the  Sravana  Belgola  Inscriptions,  published  as 
Volume  II  of  the  Epigraphia  Carnatika  of  the  Mysore  State. 
If  by  69  A.  D.  Buddhism  can  travel  to  China,  Peninsular  India 
down  to  the  South  may  in  all  likelihood  have  been  reached  by 
that  time  by  the  zealous  missionaries  of  these  reforming 
sects.  Jaina  traditions  as  testified  to  by  the  Mysore  Inscrip- 
tions make  it  clear  that  on  account  of  a  Twelve  Years' 
famine  in  North  India,  Srutakevali  Bhadrabahu,  an  eminent 
Jain  monk,  and  his  disciple,  the  monarch  Chandragupta,  led  a 
large  company  of  Jaina  monks  to  the  South.  From  Sravana 
Belgola  they  seem  to  have  sent  a  party  under  one  Visakacharya 
to  the  Chola  and  the  Pandya  countries. 


AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND  23 

^S€Osem(cL^(rn  uSlseofftTiLLcrrir 
QiDtLiuGfrear  QumLiijesai  irii^ 
QuirdjQujinrrr^  QiDiLQsfrefr^ 

If  this  is  so,  the  attempt  to  ante-date  the  incoming  of 
the  Hindu  Aryan  to  the  exclusion  of  the  heretic  can 
hardly  find  any  support  from  the  eadiest  stratum  of 
Tamil  Literature  known  to  us.  We  have  to  infer  from 
the  circumstances  of  that  early  time  that  the  Aryans  first 
came  into  the  land  neither  as  colonists  nor  as  guests  but 
as  missionaries  to  propagate  their  different  religions  and 
religious  practices.  Since  the  Brahmans,  unlike  iheir 
opponents  the  Buddhists  and  the  Jains,  were  not  at  all 
propagandistic,  one  may  reasonably  hold  that  the  heretics 
had  preceded  them  in  the  South  to  spread  the  light  of  the 
new  faith  in  countries  far  beyond  the  confines  of  the  Aryan 
settlements.  Whoever  be  the  first  batch  of  the  Aryan 
immigrants  who  came  to  the  South,  they  appear  to  have 
been  quickly  followed  by  others  of  a  different  religious 
persuasion.  But  they  were  very  few  in  number^  and  hence 
could  not  have  engaged  themselves  in  any  religious 
contest  on  a  large  scale.  Nor  were  the  social  and 
poHtical  conditions  of  the  Tamil  country  at  tha'  time 
favourable  for  carrying  on  any  sort  of  religious  propa- 
gandism.  The  Tamil  Muvendar  or  Triumvirs  (the  Chera, 
the  Chola  and  the  Pandya  Kings),  from  about  a  century 
perhaps  earlier  than  the  Christian  era,  entered  on  a  policy 
of  aggrandisement  and  were  engaged  in  wiping  out  the 

1 .  "  The  Brahmans  of  the  South  India  appear  in  those 
days  to  have  consisted  of  a  number  of  isolated  communities 
that  were  settled  in  separate  parts  of  the  country  and  that  were 
independent  each  of  the  other." — Ptolemy's  Geogra/>hy  of  Bidia 
and  Southerti  Asia  (Mccrindle's  Translation,  p.  5.) 


24  AGASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

communal  chieftaincies  then  existing  and  adding  their 
territories  to  their  own  dominions.  Tamilagam  then  was 
actually  studded  with  a  large  number  of  village  commu- 
nities under  their  respective  elders,  headmen  or  chiefs 
called  Kilars  and  of  tribes  or  congeries  ot  such  commu- 
nities ruled  over  by  their  kings  known  as  Velirs  or  Kos. 
Thesf"  petty  chieftaincies  and  kingships  were>  in  the 
course  of  three  or  four  centuries,  swept  out  of  existence 
and  this  involved  incessant  fighting  and  interminable 
forays  among  the  many  Tamil  rulers  concerned.  Such  a 
period  could  scarcely  have  been  propitious  for  any  reli- 
gious work  among  the  people. 

More  favourable  conditions,  however,  ensued  later 
on  by  the  consolidation  of  the  Tamil  monarchies  and  by 
the  stability  of  the  social  conditions  it  gave  rise  to.  The 
schismatic  warfare  of  the  North  was  then  waged  with  re- 
doubled fury  in  the  distant  South  and  thence  it  spread  also 
to  the  Indonesian  Islands  in  the  Eastern  Ocean.  It  is  but 
natural  that  in  this  fight,  both  parties,  the  orthodox  and  the 
heretical,  must  have  resorted  to  every  weapon  in  their  res- 
pective armouries  for  gaining  a  victory  over  their  oppo- 
nents. Apart  from  the  bid  tor  political  power,  which  both 
had  been  trying  to  make  from  the  beginning,  the  scholars 
too  of  the  warring  sects  appear  to  have  fed  the  mind  of 
the  people  with  all  sorts  of  myths  and  miracles,  as  another 
powerful  means  to  secure  the  support  of  the  masses.  Of 
the  many  expedients  resorted  to  conciliate  the  Tamil 
population  and  to  win  them  over  to  the  Hindu  fold,  the 
Agastya  tradition  was  one  and  it  served  its  purpose  admir- 
ably indeed.  The  Tamil  people  were  treated  to  stories  of 
social,  religious  and  spiritual  kinship  with  the  more  advan- 
ced Hindu  Aiyans  of  the  North  and  were  thus  brought 
over  to  view  the  Jaina  and  the  Buddhistic  sectaries 
as  absolutely  beyond  the  pale  of  Hindu  orthodoxy. 
The  Tamil  kings  too  were  raised  under  priestly   auspices 


AGASTVA    IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  25 

to  a  position  almost  near  gbdhood^  and  were  given  the 
unique  privilege  of  tracing  their  descent  from  the  Sun  and 
Moon  and  counting  themselves  as  connected  with  the 
Solar  and  Lunar  lines  of  kings  of  the  Puranas  and  the 
Itihasas — people  with  whom  they  had  no  kinship  what- 
soever. Their  names^  and  titles,  by  and  by,  assuliied 
a  portentous  length  by  the  adoption  of  sonorous  Sanskrit 
appellations  in  which  the  hand  of  the  family  priest  could 
be  traced  to  have  been  at  work.  The  vanity  and  self-im- 
portance of  the  rulers  concerned  must  indeed  have  been 
considerably  tickled  !    Methods    like   these   employed  to 

•  1 .  "  ^I0sifssiu. LD(5sr(Ssr0Si ir<4  s ressf^ (s\)  ^q^ i f\T'2e\is  s esai  Qt^Qtssr 
Quuafr^il  "  — llruvdymoU,  Padikam  34  Stanza  8. 

2.  The  names  of  half  a  dozen  Papdyas  of  the  Pura- 
nanuni  period  and  those  of  an  equal  number  of  them  taken 
from  Mr.  V.  Venkayya's  list  compiled  from  the  Velvikudi  grant 
of  the  8th  Century  A.  D.  and  the  Madras  Museum  and 
Sinnamanur  plates,  are  appended  here  for  comparison.  They 
afford  an  interesting  illustration  of  one  of  the  many  methods 
employed  to  utilize  political  power  in  furtherance  of  religion. 

The  Ptiraimnuni  Pmdyas.  The  Later   Pandyas. 

1.  Ilavantikaippalli  thunchiya     1.     Maravarman  Arikesari 

Nanmaran.  Asamasaman. 

2.  Kutakarathu       thunchiya     2.     Kochchadayan      Ranadhi- 

Maran  Valuti  ran. 

3.  Chittira    Madathu     thun-     3.     Arikesari  Parankusa 

chiya  Nanmaran.  Maravarman   Termaran. 

4.  Talaiyalankanattu     cheru     4.    Jatila  Nedunchataya  Paran- 

venra  Nedumcheliyan.  taka. 

5.  Velliyampalattu  thunchiya     5.     Srimara  Srivallabha 

Peru  Valuti.  Ekavira  Parachakra  Kola- 

hal.a,  Pallavabhanjana. 

6.  Kanapper     tanta    Ukkira     6.     Rajasimha       Mandanagu- 

Peru  Valuti.  rava  Abhimanameru. 

A— 4 


26  AGASTYA    IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

conciliate  the  kings  and  the    masses   alike   proved,  alon^ 
with  other  causes  like  the  advent  of  the  religious  devotees, 
the    Nayanmars   and   the   Ajvars,   a   powerful   means  of 
stamping  out  the  Jaina  and  Buddhistic  heterodoxy  from  the 
Tamil  land    in    the   course   of    the    next   few    centuries. 
Among  such    devices   of    a  later    religious   warfare,  the 
Agastya  tradition,  as  already  observed,  appears  to  be  one. 
But  it  may  still  be  asked  why  that  tradition  could  not  be 
given  its  face  value  and  taken  for    one    of    the    authentic 
race-lore  of  the  Dravidians  themselves.     There  is  hardly 
any  a  priori  necessity    to   dismiss  such    a  supposition  as 
unentertainable.     Still  the  absolute    silence  of  the  entire 
Tamil    Literature  of  the  earliest  period  precludes  us  from 
considering  it  even  as  a  reasonable  historical  hypothesis. 
The  most  potent  cause  which  appears    to   have    pre- 
disposed   the  people  to  a  ready  accep- 
causes     for  the     tance  of  this  foreign    tradition   was    its 
Agastyr^tradi     ^PP^^^  ^^  the  sense  of  racial  dignity,  or 
tioii-  vanity  perhaps,  from  which    few    races 

of  antiquity  are  found  to  be  free.  If  a  sense  of  racial 
superiority  is  seen  to  persist  even  to  this  day  among  many 
enlightened  people,  one  will  not  go  wrong  in  positing  its 
existence  in  those  bygone  times.  At  the  beginning,  the 
systematization,  if  not  the  creation,  of  the  language  of  a 
people  by  some  Divine  agency  or  semi-divine  sage  must 
have  evoked  from  them  the  greatest  admiration  and 
respect.  And  all  the  more  powerful  should  be  the  in- 
fluence of  that  doctrine  when  it  puts  their  own  language 
in  a  position  of  co-ordinate  authority  and  odour  of  sanc- 
tity with  the  divine  language  of  the  North,  the  Sanskrit. 
Later  literature  is  filled  with  allusions  which  express 
unfeigned  gratification  at  the  ennoblement  of  Tamil,  to 
stand  on  a  par  with  the  sacred  language  of  the  Vedas. 
Here  are  a  few  stanzas  culled  at  random  from  some 
leading  works : 


AGASTYA    IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  27 

1.      '^  Qp^fiuSiQ^  iBfTiosruieojDiil  LLiT<^Gsr  asm L^adj" 

QfiiflQeorr 

euL^QiDfT  L^s^ssiU^  ^riEjQuj^  LDeoujLDfr  Qpesfls^^ 
LDt^m  ailsirisi  Qsmu^  euQp^rBir  L.G!rQ(Tfj'J' 


eun-iuuu 
eSl^GLcrTLfinJ  rSsQjTGsr^  iSl^peiasuj  (ipefrQ^Qujfr," 

7.      "  LDGSipQp^p  Qetrii^  eumufTarr  Lo^QpSly^  Qptsf.^^ 

u9es>peuiT/iu)  QuujGOff  rsrTLLuf.  uSeosaem (ir,  Q^iLuju 

QupQp 


2S  AGASTVA   IN  THE   TAMIL   LAND 

Q,fUJ€UITlh," 

— ($(ST€rr^^L)j7ir6!j3r&. 

8.      "  ^GafliBU.fEi  ^aSpgiJ(^  ^uiLffsua  QuQ^iLiTGsr 
PLD0SU  ueoipsseik  ^^i  ^^u  Qqigst 
pinrr^Q^  (^^^ir  wir^niS  Qiry^Qup^ 
^L^Qpp.  isGS-(g  Q^{B^^<oSiiii  Qurreo 
eSi^QpLo  Qsj'2eoii^  ^ gfiQurrtus  (^gst ps 
sifiQ'Lctssr  s LOGOS  sir^^'2eaT  eSl^ir^^ 
^0f3j^6us  QsfrmeiDs  iij>^^^iij  (ip(5uPs(^^ 

These  extracts,  though  made  mostly  from  later 
authors,  give  us  a  valuable  clue  for  correctly  arriving 
at  the  motives  that  must  have  swayed  the  Tamil  people  in 
the  ready  acceptance  of  the  Agastya  legend. 

Another  predisposing  cause  might  be  drawn  from  the 
high  character  and  religious  sanctity  of  the  few  early  Brah- 
man settlers  in  the  Tamil  land.  The  arri\^l  of  the  Ar\^ans  here 
must,  in  the  ordinary  course  of  events,  have  taken  place  only 
after  the  Maharastra,  Andhra  and  Karnataka  countries 
had  been  fairly  occupied  by  them.  This  penetration  into 
the  last  two  border  countries  of  Tamilagam  may  require, 
at  the  lowest,  two  to  three  centuries  from  350  B.  C.  So 
the  first  or  the  second  centurv  before  Christ  mav  reason- 
ably  be  fixed  as  the  terminus  a  quo  beyond  which  the 
Aryan  immigration  into  Tamilagam  could  not  be  pushed. 
That  the  Hindu  Aryans  who  set  foot  in  the  Tamil 
land  a  little  later  hailed  from  these  border  countries  re- 
ceives some  support  from  two  subsequent  traditions.  One 
of  this  refers  td'Agastya'bringing  with  him  eighteen  fami- 
lies of  kings,  Velirs  and   Aruvalars  from  Tuvarapati,  the 


AQASTYA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  29 

modern  Dwarasamudram  in  the  Mysore  State,  and  the 
other  to  Parasurama  peophng  Kerala^  with  colonists 
from  the  banks  of  the  Godavarl  and  the  Krishna.  The 
Travancore  State  Manual  in  page  213  refers  to  the  latter 
tradition  thus  :  *^The  new  land  was  not  fit  for  habitation  ; 
the  settling  down  had  not  been  completed.  The  quaking  did 
not  cease,  so  the  Purana  says  :  hence  Parasurama  sprinkled 
some  gold  dust  and  buried  coins  and  thus  formed  a  trea- 
sure-trove which  stopped  the  quaking  of  the  land.  He 
prepared  a  great  yagam  (Sacrifice)  at  Varkala  for  the  same 
purpose.  Thereafter  Parasurama  brought  colonies  of 
Brahmins  from  the  north,  from  the  banks  of  the  Krishna, 
theGodavari,  theNarmada,  theKaveri  and  from  Madura, 
Mysore  and  Maharastra  and  from  many  other  places  and 
peopled  Keralam.  The  Brahmin  colonists  so  brought 
belonged  to  eight  goirams  or  families."  Presumably  this 
is  a  very  late  tradition.  Still  we  may  infer  that  what  oc- 
curred in  Kerala  has  had  its  analogue  in  the  Tamil  land  to 
the  east  of  the  ghats.  ^  Larger  and  larger  colonies  of  the 
Aryan  immigrants  must  have  come  into  the  country  from 

1 .  Mr.  Logan  is  of  opinion  that  the  Vedic  Brahmans  must 
have  arrivad  at  Malabar  in  the  early  part  of  the  8th  Century 
A.  D.,  and  not  earlier  and  that  they  must  have  come  from  the 
coast  of  the  Tulu  country. 

2.  Is  it  not  a  little  curious  that  identical  methods  have  been 
adopted  by  the  Aryan  immigrants  or  their  immediate  descen- 
dants, in  Peninsular  India  both  in  the  East  Coast  and  in  the 
West?  Agastya  was  brought  into  the  Tamil  country  on  the  East 
Coast  and  Parasurama  was  planted  on  the  West.  Just  as  Parasu- 
rama created  the  whole  Keralam  from  out  of  the  bed 
of  the  Arabian  Sea  and  became  its  virtual  proprietor,  his 
Eastern  companion  seems  to  have  got  the  whole  Tamil  country 
from  God  Skanda  at  Tiruvenkatam  and  handed  it  over  to  his 
Sishya,  the  first  Pandya  king.  Again  as  Parasurama  had  to 
people  his  new  country  by  bringing  down  families  of  royalty  and 
commonalty  from  the  banks  of  the  Godavari  and  the  Krishna, 


^0  AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

the  watershed  of  the  Krishna  and  the  Godavari  rivers, 
the  Maharastra  and  the  Karnataka  in  the  West  and  of 
the  Andhra  in  the  East.  The  picture  presented  by  the 
earhest  body  of  Tamil  Literature,  z;/^.,  Purandnuruy  Aka- 
nanuru,  Paiitippdttu  etc.,  only  tends  to  confirm  the  con- 
clusion otherwise  arrived  at  here.  A  few  Brahman  priests 
seem  to  have  taken  up  their  abode  here  and  there  and 
assisted  the  kings  and  chieftains  in  the  performance  of 
yagas  and  other  religious  rites.  Though  they  were  very 
few  in  number,  they  had  acquired  by  their  learning, 
peaceful  character  and  by  their  life  of  self-denial  and  high- 
aspiring  spirituality  an  unbounded  influence  with  the 
rulers  and  the  ruled  alike.  The  following  quotations  from 
Purandnuru  will  establish  beyond  doubt  the  sanctity 
that  had  already  begun  to  hedge  round  the  Brahman 
teachers  of  those  days.^ 

Agastya  had  to  take  18  families  of  kings,  Velirs  and  Aruvalars 
from  Tuvarapati  (Dwarasamudram).  The  parallelism  is  not  yet 
ended.  Even  as  the  West  Coast  owes  its  very  rudiments  of 
civilized  life  to  Parasurama,  Agastya  had  also  to  perform  his 
civilizing  work  by  systematizing  the  Tamil  Language  and  found- 
ing the  first  Academy  whence  all  culture  flowed  for  the  benefit 
of  later  generations.  After  their  labours  for  the  spread  of 
knowledge  and  culture,  Parasurama  is  said  to  have  betaken 
himself  to  the  Mahendra  Hill  in  Orissa,  and  Agastya,  likewise, 
had  to  retire  to  the  Pothiyil  mount  of  the  South.  Just  as 
Parasurama  who  first  reclaimed  Surparaka  country  about 
Bombay  in  the  North  was  later  on  shifted  to  the  South  to  re- 
claim Kerala,  Agastya  had  to  quit  his  Malakuta  residence,  in 
the  Kanarese  country,  and  take  up  his  quarters  in  the  Pothiyil 
mount  in  the  heart  of  the  Tamil  country  in  the  South.  The 
inference  from  this  close  parallelism  of  traditions  is  obvious. 

1.  Mr.  F.  E.  Pargiter,  in  his  Ancie?it  Lidian  Historical 
Tradition^  p.  62,  writes  as  follows:  "There  have  been  broadly 
speaking,  three  classes  among  Brahmins  throughout  Indian  His- 
tory, viz.^  (l)  The  ascetic  devotee   and   teacher,  the  rsi  or  the 


AGASTVA    IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  31 

iBirasriL'&ip  (ipesfleu  Quik^^s  Quj_^Qit  " — 6:  Karikilar. 
"  ^<si/  ui!T<oJsP,(up  urr^uuesr  LDrrss(&^u>" — 9:  Nettimaiyai". 

—34:  Alatturkkilar. 

*****  /^63r  (LpmQ<^  Qff&}&)rTih 

urriTuumi  QiBrroiesr  Q^ibiueorr*\ — 43 :  Tamappalkannanar. 

This  high  respect,  which  the  early  Brahman  priests 
won,  naturally  ripened  in  a  few  centuries  into  a 
blind  belief  on  the  part  of  the  Tamilians  in  all  the  myths 
and  legends  which  the  ingenuity  of  the  priestly  order 
could  coin  for  success  in  a  life-and-death  grapple  with  the 
heretics. 


muni  ;  (2)  priest  and  the  spiritual  guide  of  Kings,  nobles  and 
people  ;  and  (3)  the  minister  of  State,  Royal  Officer  and  those 
who  followed  secular  employments.  The  first  was  the  Brah- 
man par  excellence^  the  Saint ;  the  second  the  priest  and  the  pre- 
ceptor ;  and  the  third  the  semi-secular  Brahman  and  sometimes 
wholly  a  layman."  In  the  Tamil  country  the  earliest  Brahman 
settlers  as  testified  to  by  literature  seem  to  have  belonged  to 
the  second  class  mentioned  by  Mr.  Pargiter,  Except  Agastya, 
Tamil  land  cannot  boast  of  a  single  Aryan  Rishi  as  having  had 
his  hermitage  within  its  borders.  Living  secluded  in  their 
forest  hermitages,  and  cut  oflf  from  the  current  of  secular  life, 
those  Aryan  Rishis  did  not  come  to  the  South.  The  later  Tamil 
Puranic  writers,  for  their  own  purposes,  had  to  draw  their 
Rishis  from  the  Naimisa  and  other  forests  in  North  India. 
This  total  absence  of  the  Aryan  Rishi  or  his  hermitage  in  the 
Tamil  land  renders  Agastya's  connection  with  the  South  highly 
problematical,  being  a  solitary  exception  which  does  not  fit  in 
with  historic  conditions  and  chronology.  Aryan  immigration 
into  the  Tamil  land  in  any  considerable  scale  having  begun  in 
the  Post-Christian  centuries,  the  attempt  to  import  therein  a 
Rishi  belonging  to  the  Pre-Christian  period  is  nothing  less  than 
a  crude  anachronism. 


3^  AGASTYA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

And  a  third  predisposing  cause  arises  from  the 
decadence  which  the  Tamilians  fell  into  after  attain- 
ing the  elements  of  a  material  civilization  so  clearly  re- 
flected in  what  is  admittedly  the  classical  portion  of  Tamil 
Literature.  A  period  of  repose,  as  in  the  case  of  other 
nations,  followed  in  the  wake  of  one  of  constructive  and 
creative  activity  and  the  national  mind  then  appears  to  have 
fallen  into  a  torpor.  Here  too,  as  elsewhere,  idle  minds  fell 
a  prey  to  superstition — for  a  serious  active  life  and 
superstition  never  go  together — and  when  this  superstition 
entered  into  alliance  with  religion,  human  nature  could 
not  but  succumb. 

The  mystery  of  the  religion  of  Nanmaraiy  the  four 
sealed  arcana,  and  the  miracles  of  devotees  and  religious 
preachers  will,  as  a  matter  of  course,  make  a  powerful  ap- 
peal to  the  masses  whose  minds  have  already  grown  vacant 
by  a  life  of  enervating  ease  and  inactivity.  It  is  difficult 
to  imagine  how  the  successors  of  the  early  Tamilians  who 
had  achieved  such  wonderful  success  in  many  of  the  arts 
of  civilized  life  at  so  early  an  age  could  have  allowed 
themselves  to  be  thus  hopelessly  bound  by  the  mythologic 
cobwebs  of  a  later  time.  The  mystery  of  this  will  vanish 
the  momen*  we  realise  that  human  nature — even  the  best 
cviltivated — can  in  no  way  be  developed  all-round.  Its 
strength  in  one  direction  spells  weakness  in  another. 
This  is  the  Nemesis  that  always  dogs  the  footsteps  of 
every  specialist.  If  he  is  great  in  one  field,  he  must  pay 
the  penalty  by  his  weakness  in  another.  The  practical 
Tamil  intellect,  when  it  had  accomplished  its  work  of 
building  up  a  material  civilization  and  felt  itself  flagged, 
was  only  too  ready  to  receive  its  spiritual  pabulum  and 
mythologic  luxuries  from  the  Aryans  of  the  North. 

Not  onlv  is  the  Agastya    tradition 

Agastya  tradition         ,   ,  •    "^-i      -^        i  i      j    m.  i      .^ 

in    the    Rama-     a  late  one  m  the  Tamil  land,  its  earliest 

y^^*-  reference  in  the  Ramayana  of  Valniiki 


AGASTVA    IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  33 

•comes  to  us  with  a  clear  impress  of  an  inherent  contradic- 
lion.  Rama  first  meets  Agastya,  as  I  stated  before,  at  hisas- 
ram  near  Nasik  and  under  the  direction  of  the  latter  takes 
up  his  residence  at  Pancavati.  It  was  here  th  .t  the 
-abduction  of  SIta  by  Havana  takes  place  and  thereafter 
Rama  moves  southward  to  Kiskindha  and  enters  into  an 
alliance  with  Sugriva,  the  monkey-chief.  In  the  course  of 
the  instructions  to  the  search-parties  despatched  by  Sugri- 
va for  finding  out  Sit&,  a  somewhat  minute  geographical 
description  of  South  India  is  given  to  Hanuman,  who 
had  been  chosen  with  Angada  to  lead  the  southern 
party.  In  this  occurs  a  reference  to  the  sandalwooded 
Malaya  to  the  south  of  the  river  Kaveri  as  the  seat  of  the 
famous  Saint  Agastya.  A  modern  reader  of  the  Rama- 
yana  must  feel  considerable  perplexity  in  reconciling  the 
existence  of  the  sage  just  a  few  yojanas  to  the  north  of  the 
Pancavati  with  his  residence  at  Pothiyil,  a  distance  of 
more  than  800  miles  to  the  south.  This  obvious  incon- 
sistency could  be  got  over  only  by  assuming  that  the 
mention  of  Agastya's  residence  in  the  southern  mountain 
was  a  subsequent  interpolation  made  by  one  who  had 
more  knowledge  of  South  India,  especially  of  the  Tamil 
Kingdoms  in  the  south,  than  Valmiki  himself  who  men- 
tions the  southern  ocean  as  lying  just  a  few  yojanas  off 
from  the  foot  of  the  Vindhya  mountains.  Supernatura- 
lists  may  credit  the  sage  with  powers  of  swift 
locomotion  through  the  air  and  may  not  feel 
puzzled  how  the  sage  could  live  about  the  Vindhya 
mountains  in  the  north  and  in  a  short  time  find 
himself  seated  in  the  Malaya  Hills  of  the  far-distant 
south. 

But  that  hypothesis  will  not  suit  the  demands  of 
sober  history.  Hence  we  have  to  conclude  that  the  testi- 
mony of  the  Ramayana  which  has  been  undergoing 
numerous  redactions  till  the    first  century    B.C.   or  even 

A— 5 


34  AGASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

later,i  does  in  no  way  enable  us  to  argue  for  a  high  anti- 
quity tor  this  tradition  in  Tamilagam. 

Taking  along  with  this  the  complete  silence  of  the 
Tamil  classical  literature  spread  about  the  first  three  cen- 
turies of  the  Christian  Era,  the  conclusion  appears  highly 
probable  that  the  fourth,  fifth  and  sixth  centuries  after 
Christ,  which  mark  the  keenest  struggle  with  the  heretical 
sects  in  the  Tamil  Land,  may  also  have  been  the  period 
when  the  first  seeds  of  the  Agastya  tradition  were  sown  in 
the  South.  How  entirely  incorrect  is  the  surmise  of  Dr. 
Caldwell  who  claimed  for  the  tradition  an  antiquity  going, 
back  to  700  B.  C.  needs  therefore  no  further  elucidation. 

Conceding  for  the  present  that  the 
Agastya  Tradition  .         ,  ,  ^,  ,         ,  •   , 

and      Tolkappi-     poets    who  composed  the  works  which 

^^^-  are    generally     known    as     "  Sangam 

Literature"  may  have  omitted  to  make  mention  of  Agastya 
for  various  reasons  of  their  own,  still  we  shall  be  pre- 
cluded from  making  such  a  concession  in  the  case  of 
Tolkappiyar,  his  leading  disciple,  and  the  author  of  the 
first  and  foremost  Grammar  of  the  Tamil  Language.  It 
is  quite  reasonable  to  expect  that  at  least  he,  considering; 
his  relationship  with  the  sage  and  by  the  special  fact  of 
his  composing  a  grammar  to  compete  with  the  monu- 
mental work  of  his  master,  should  have  given  us  some  in- 
formation regarding  his  reputed  predecessor.  Has  he  done 
anything  of  the  kind  ?  Not  a  line  is  there  in  all  that  ex- 
tent of  his  great  grammar  which  may  be  construed  even^ 
as  an  indirect  reference  to  the  Sage.^     Tradition,  whose 

1,  For  instance,  Dr.  Washburne  Hopkins  in  his  work,  the 
Greaf  Epic  of  India  fixes  4C0  A.D.  as  the  latest  date. 

2.  It  is  true  that  Nachchinarkkiniyar  interprets  certain' 
sutras  of  Tolkappiam  ending  in  otsotu,  Qidtl^u,  etc.,  whose  re- 
ference is  not  at  all  specific  as  a  reference  by  implication  to 
Agastya,  the  author's  guru.  But  the  correct  method  of  interpret- 
ing these  indefinite  statements  of  Tolkappiyar  is    to   be  drawn 


AGASTVA    IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND  35 

origin  though  late  remains  obscure,  is  no  doubt  responsible 
for  creating  twelve  disciples  who  had  to  sit  at  the  feet  of 
Agastya  for  their  learning.  They  were  (1)  Tiranadhumak- 
kini  ^/ms  Tolkappiyar  ;  (2)  Chemputchey  ;  (3)  Atankotta- 
can  ;  (4)  Turalinkan  ;  (5^  Vaiyappikan  ;  (6)  Vayppiyan  ; 
(7)  Panamparan  ;  (8)  Kalaramban  ;  (9)  Avinayan  ; 
(10)  Kakkaipatiniyan  ;  (11)  Narrattan  and  Vamanan. 
Sometimes  Sikanti  is  seen  interpolated  in  the  list. 
It  is  worthy  of  note  that  Panamparanar,  one  of  the  co- 
students  who  studied  with  Tolkappiyar  at  the  Agastya 
Academy,  is  credited  with  composing  an  introductory 
stanza  for  his  mate's  work  Tolkatpiyani.  Here  a  refe- 
rence is  made  to  Atankottacan,  another  class-mate  of 
theirs,  and  also  to  Tolkappiyar's  proficiency  in  the  Aindra 
School  of  Sanskrit  Grammar.  Here  too,  Agastya  has  been 
passed  over  in  studied  silence.  Even  assuming  that  Tol- 
kappiyar's relationship  with  Agastya  was  a  trifle  strained — 
as  Tradition  assures  us — there  is  not  the  slightest  ground 
why  Panamparanar  should  forget  his  guru  in  this  recom- 
mendatory stanza.  Not  only  has  the  sage  been  severely  left 
out  in  the  cold,  but  to  add  insult  to  injury  Panamparanar 
makes  another  of  their  co-students,  Atankottacan,  pre- 
side over  the  assembly  which  had  gathered  to  hear  the  ex- 
position of  Tolkappiyar's  great  work  and  set  on  it  its  seal  of 
approval.  Is  it  conceivable  that  these  three  students  of 
Agastya  would  have  behaved  so  indecorously  as  they  seem 
to  have  done,  if  they  had  actually  acknowledged  the  great 
sage  as  their  preceptor?  The  conduct  of  this  student- 
triumvirate  is  explicable  only  on  the  assumption  that  none 
of  them  had  anything  to  do  with  Agastya  and  might  be 

from  certain  other  sutras  of  that  author  which  contain  word, 
ings  like  *  ^em  essP^svijemiTiiQ^mT  sestn  i^qhtQ py  *  er^LD(^iT 
L\eo(5e)ioQuu(TQnj  *  ct-sot-l/  ^em  q^Q uhtQ n y  '  Gimu  ^ S ik ^&Q (^Q ir .* 
Explicitly  and  quite  decisively  these  refer  only  to  previous 
grammarians  in  general  and  not  to  Agastya  in  particular. 


36  AGASTYA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

supposed  to  have  been  even  ignorant  of  his  very  existence 
at  the  time.  The  perversity,  which  undoubtedly  seems  to 
chng  to  their  conduct  in  this  matter,  is  entirely  due  to  our 
trying  to  foist  on  them  a  later  day  legend,  for  which  they 
could  hardly  be  called  to  account.  If,  however,  we  dis- 
miss the  Agastya  legend  as  a  piece  of  chronological  ir- 
relevancy, the  conduct  of  Tolkappiyar,  Panamparanar 
and  Atafikottacan  assumes  quite  a  natural  character. 

Tradition     credits     Agastya    with 
Works.  founding  the  first  Sangam  and  presiding 

over  it.  He  is  also  represented  as  hav- 
ing composed  the  first  Grammar  of  the  Tamil  Language. 
The  Sangam  tradition,  as  it  stands,  is  too  indefinite  and 
etherial  to  be  made  the  subject-matter  of  any  historical 
investigation  ;  for  it  d'.  es  not  afford  us  anywhere  any  foot- 
hold, any  solid  verifiable  fact,  from  which  to  start.  Nearly 
the  whole  body  of  it  hangs  in  cloudland  and  few  will  be 
disposed  to  tamper  wath  that  beautiful  aerial  structure  with 
prosaic  confrontation  with  facts  and  historical  deductions. 
Scientific  criticism  must  feel  a  little  nonplussed  when 
vast  periods  of  geological  time  are  allowed  to  step  into 
the  limited  field  of  a  nation's  literary  history.  Nor  do 
the  later  Noachian  Deluge  and  Manu's  tiood  offer  us  a 
surer  ground  to   plant  ourselves    on.^     So,    the    Sangam 


1.  Regarding  such  deluges  Mr.  L.  W.  King  writes  thus 
in  page  121  of  his  work  Babyloniafi  /Religion  and  Mythology. 

"  In  the  tradition  of  many  races  scattered  in  various  parts 
of  the  world  is  to  be  found  a  story,  under  many  different 
forms  and  with  many  variations,  of  a  great  flood  or  deluge 
which  in  former  times  inundated  and  laid  waste  the  land  in 
which  they  dwelt.  The  explanation  that  such  traditions  refer 
to  a  universal  deluge  which  took  place  in  the  early  ages  of  the 
world,  is  now  generally  regarded  as  inadmissible,  inasmuch  as 
there  is  no  trace  of  such  a  catastrophe  in  the  earth's  geological 
formation.  Moreover  Science  has  shown  that  in  the  present 
physical  condition  of  the  world  such  a  universal  deluge  would 
be  impossible." 


AGASTVA    IN  THE   TAMIL   LAND  37 

question  may  be  left  undisturbed  for  the  present. ^ 

Agastya's  composition  of  the  first  Tamil  Grammar, 
however,  stands  on  a  different  fooling.  It  opens  for  us 
an  avenue  of  approach.  Though  here  also,  according  to 
tradition,  the  major  portion  of  his  work  is  said  to  have 
fallen  into  the  maws  of  a  far-distant  time,  still  some  stray 
sutras  of  his  have  escaped  that  fate  and  come  down 
to  us.  These,  then,  should  give  us  some  interesting 
materials  for  judgin<;,  however  imperfectly,  the  nature  of 
Agastya's  extensive   grammar    of  twelve  thousand  sutras 


1.  It  is  worthy  of  note,  in  this  connection,  that  no  cham- 
pion of  the  Sangam  has  yet  come  forward  to  seriously  refute 
any  of  the  arguments  contained  in  the  searching  criticism  of 
the  late  Prof.  Seshagiri  Sastri  on  the  subject.  The  attempt 
of  the  late  Prof.  P.  Sundaram  Pillai,  who  ingeniously  put 
forward  the  best  defence  the  question  admitted  of,  that  the 
Sangam  poets  though  belonging  to  various  times  and  places 
were  brought  together  in  a  group  because  in  the  historical  pers- 
pective of  a  distant  posterity  they  appeared  to  hang  together, 
is  really  giving  away  the  whole  case.  No  doubt,  it  is  a  poetic 
way  of  defending  the  Sangam  ;  but  the  historic  authenticity  of 
the  latter  must  be  built  upon  more  solid  materials  than  figura- 
tive language.  So  the  arguments  of  Prof.  Seshagiri  Sastri  still 
hold  the  field.  The  mistaken  impression  that  the  antiquity  of 
Tamil  Literature  has  to  be  surrendered  in  the  absence  of 
a  Sangam  to  support  it  from  behind  has  been  at  the  root 
of  this  tradition  being  carefully  preserved,  tended  and 
made  to  persist  even  now.  The  earliest  Tamil  works — 
the  Sangam  literature — have  undoubted  intrinsic  merits 
of  their  own  and  carry  with  them  their  own  credentials 
for  the  grateful  acceptance  of  the  present-day  Tamilian.  In- 
stead of  establishing  their  antiquity  on  these  intrinsic  historic 
grounds,  as  I  think  we  can  very  well  do,  some  are  engaged  in 
propping  it  up  on  such  extrinsic  and  almost  legendary  data  as 
the  three  Sangams.  In  my  view,  it  is  certainly  spoiling  a  strong 
case  by  unnecessary  mythologizing. 


38  AGASTYA   IN  THE  TAMIL   LAND 

and  of  the  grain  and  temper  of   scholarship  that  charac- 
terised its  author. 

Before  we  proceed  to  vahie  the  fragments  of  Agastya's 
Grammar  which  have  been  handed  down  by  the  Tamil 
commentators  and  collected  by  a  recent  editor,  it  will  not 
be  out  of  place  to  glance  incidentally  at  the  huge  body  of 
miscellaneous  writings  which  has  since  been  ascribed  to 
him.  They  range  over  a  wide  field  from  Medicine  and 
Mysticism  to  Magic  and  Witchcraft^  and  bear  eloquent  tes- 
timony to  their  author  having  been  an  unabashed  charla- 
tan. The  reputed  systematiser  of  the  Tamil  Language 
could  scarcely  have  descended  so  low  as  to  produce  such 
senseless  and  dismal  drivel  as  the  extant  Agastya  litera- 
ture, which  has  absolutely  nothing  in  either  matter  or 
form  to  commend  it  to  a  cultured  society.  This  is  what 
Professor  Mahamahopadhyaya  S.  Kuppuswami  Sastriar, 
M.  A.,  says  in  the  introduction  to  Part  II  of  Vol.  II  of 
the  Descriptive  Catalogue  of  the  Oriental  Manuscripts 
'Library,  Madras :  "  The  name  of  Agastya  or  Ahattiyar  in 
Tamil  has  to  be  specially  mentioned  as  the  most  prolific 
writer  on  these  subjects  (Alchemy,  Medicine,  Yogam  of 
the  Siddhars).  Who  this  Agastiyar  is.  to  whom  so  many 
works  are  attributed,  cannot  be  stated.  He  does  not  seem 
to  be  the  same  as  the  well-known  Agastiyar,  who  is  said 
to  have  systematized  the  Tamil  Language  and  wrote  the 
First  Tamil  Grammar.  In  all  probability  works  written  by 

L     The  Catalogue  of  the    Madras   Oriental  Manuscripts 
Library  gives,  in  all,  details  of  about  96  Agastya  works.     May 
he  this  collection    just    touches  only   the  fringe  of  a  body  of 
literature  not  yet  fully  explored.     If   the    cavernous  profundity 
of  that  author  could  gush  forth  in  such  numbers  as 
**U7iruuT  eurr^;i^(^  eo<3i^ih  srruLju 
utTisf-QeBTm"  eis)Qj^^uj4^&}  Qnesai®  G)6\)£s,^ih" 
•could  even  the  most    conscientious    book-collector    ever  think 
of  running  the  whole  quarry  to  earth? 


AGASTYA   IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND  39 

•different  persons  at  different  periods  of  time  seem  to  have 
been  attributed  to  Ahattiyar  to  invest  them  with  dignity 
and  antiquity,  but  the  language  used  in  many  of  these 
works  is  very  commonplace  and  betrays  them  in  their 
true  colour  as  later  compositions."  To  call  the  language 
of  this  trashy  collection — for  literature  is  too  dignified 
a  name  to  be  used  for  it — *  commonplace  '  is  to  err  on 
Ihe  side  of  moderation.  Let  me  extract  a  few  lines  of 
verse  for  the  judgment  of  the  reader. 

''  QiP^QujTfirgfi  Qff  T&) ^iQQ pSsr    Q^offlojjdjd    Q^^m, 

—  &ia>^^iu^   L4,jes5r^^^Jw  ^i5Pi[i){piLJU.^g)g)i 

**  QojeffJtLirrs^  @^^/ir^esi^  Qeuetfl  (sSlt^nQ^ 

— &\^^^iu^  *3sv^l5T€3T  ^^^jii  a^iiSj^^  #i5SiiP 

**  eS^eiDjsQiJueffrp  eS ^a^^QujeoeonuD  ^ p&s  (^ehQefr 
<£(Tf)^il.®  QqjlLQ^p^  ^Q:B(S  " 

— &is>^^iui  CTiKB 

^6sai L^rretr u  urrel9si^d  Slu  (cOjesarL-irili 

lS&)LDT€Sr   IBITlLs'^^   ^IT^SS   QsfT&)  ^LD 

i£l(if)^QQi  U(i^s=rfl^^  QfieaaiL^m  Q^ib^ 

Is    this   '  commonplace '  language   or  the   language 
of  puny  minds  absolutely  devoid  of  learning,  culture,  and 


40  AGASTVA    IN   THE   TAMIL    LAND 

moral  elevation?  The  Professor  is  again  a  little  cautious 
and  hesitating  to  draw  the  conchision  that  the  whole  lot 
bears  the  impress  of  the  popular  mint  of  quite  recent 
times.     Such  lines  as: 

QurrjbfSlQ  ^(i^QiLmQp  QufT(7^ui-jQLD  eQ(Tf,ihQfi(TiT 

occurring  in  some  of  the  works  themselves  give  the  lie 
direct  to  their  ever  having  been  written  by  the  sage 
himself.  But  why  waste  time  in  exploring  the  back  alleys 
and  slums  of  Tamil  Literature? 

In  retracing  his  steps  to  the  grammatical  sutras  of 
Agastya,  the  reader  may  expect  that  perhaps  in  these  the 
reputed  sage  might  be  seen  at  his  best.  But  I  fear  blank 
disappointment  must  greet  him  here  also.  First,  a  few 
specimens  of  the  sutras  of  this  far-famed  originator  of  the 
first  Tamil  Grammar.  His  definitions  of  Eluttu  (crQp^g:^) 
Moli  (Qld.tl^)  and  Kurru  (^p^)  are  illuminating  to  the 
last  degree  and  we  feel  that  without  his  critical  guidance 
in  a  region  so  recondite  we  would  be  left  in  the  lurch  for 
ever. 

'*  QiOrL^ISfi   QQi(lQ^flT<SSr  QlD.TL^QjQ;S  QiDfTL^lJUrrUi," 

'*  <s5i-^  uQ^^eOfTeo  3k.pQpetsrLJU®LD." 
Then  he  gives  the  lead  to  future  grammarians  how  they 
should  distinguish  between  the  sexes  of  letters  : 

** (^fS eoirem  urr^  Q/Bi^&)Quem  un^^inmh" 


AGASTVA    IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  41 

His  medical  knowledge  is  perhaps  responsible  for 
another  pecuhar  classification  of  letters  or  sounds 
into  Amirtaveluttu  {^lS1it^Qqj(lp^^)  and  Naficeluttu  (z?,^ 
Q^aps^).  His  intuitive  apprehension  of  the  individuaHty 
of  the  Tamil  Language  comes  out  in  the  Sutra  : 

This  solitary  Sutra  is  enough  to  blow  up  the  patrio- 
tic pretensions  of  the  so-called  Tamil  Muni  ?  Probably, 
Agastya,  a  foreigner  in  the  Tamil  land,  had  a  better  justi- 
fication for  claiming  the  ownership  of  even  yrimary 
human  sounds  to  the  Sanskrit  Language,  than  the  bigot- 
ed author  of  Ilakkanakkottu  (^e\)ss6sw sQsr^^')  of  modern 
days  m  perpetrating  that  absurd  violation  of  the 
most  elementary  conceptions  of  linguistic  science.  The 
tell-tale  sutras,  1  here  extract,  from  the  published  volume 
of  Rao  Saheb  Bhavanandam  Pillai's  edition  of  Perakai- 
tiya  TiratUiy  will  not  fail  to  impress  the  reader  with 
their  brand-new  modernity.  If  the  words,  style  and 
thoughts  of  a  literary  composition  can  furnish  the  critic 
with  any  standard  for  fixing  its  date  with  some  approach 
to  tolerable  accuracy,  the  following  sutras  can  lead  but  to 
one  conclusion.  They  are  all  post-Tolkappiyam  in  origin 
and  bear  evident  marks  of  pedantry  in  some  and  of 
grammatical  dilettantism  in  others.     Here  are  the  Sutras  : 

Sutra  : 

4.      ^Q[i<ssis   QjfFlQuirnSl  uSlQeoosiSiua  situQuluit, 

10.      J)jS=<SF!TeS'   €f[lLDLlfi  LDfTQptjSlffl^  QuLUIT, 

15.  QiBi^s^ih  Qfs^eiDuiiiji  ^frssQp  QfBu^jbQuujiT. 
27,  ^L^^L^LD  Qufrppeo  &^€tDLD<cS^uj(iT)  ^(oStQlduj, 
31.     QKsSleuSsresiLD  OK^sesmih  Uffl^Lhsueo  eSlei^ruQuLUiT. 

[BfT^Qpntk}  sehL-fB  ^'2isouSIl-  (Lpp^ii) 

Qeoe\)6\)fT  QojQ-Qfi^th  i9 ps(^  Qixxcku. 
78.      ^'^QsyiMOJS  SffUiQutreo  s^irirQuQp^  ^puQiu>. 
A— 6 


42  AGASTVA   IN  THE   TAMIL   LAND 

89.      Lctudau)  i^em^^&  s=rEJSLD(i^  es^spQ lurrsiki 

139.     ^sffflQiDTL^  aSl^sssrQiDrrL^  ^femQuarTL^  Qurr^^jQintrL^ 

141.  ff^sQirs(^  ^lEJs^  LDOJUL^ffi^^iBix)  uirsflua 
QiLrrtfifSfT^  Qs(m-Q p  QiDaL^dJu  u(SlQu), 

142.  ff^aQnst^  s=iEJSjgiB  (c^eurrQiDtTL^  Qvugstu, 

143.  ^Q}Ul3ir(^   <F'5QlDfTLfi   UjQff^GSrlTS  aiT(^LD, 

144.  eri^eoit  ismLi^^  lAlujeoeu^  UTSfiih, 

145.  urrsfiuDy  ^puGuih  fipffLni  Q^&uu  QiLesTuu®iJD, 

148.  Q^Qluib  ^esis^M^J  QeoGsrgv  Qs^ul-js, 

149,  ^iTSsiEJ  (^erorLo  sSq^^^  ^ib^  ^QJetasuurrLD, 
163.  ejivdrr  eSl^fi  Quuib^ih  iSi&r'^aQs, 


QoiQ pesT  eSlemhurr&fr  Quvun ^i  eSsjuQiDOsr 

(o(^^UJ  Ll6\)(SiJSSil^    (ipSfrG^0    QJ0DSUJ.T 

6rf!.i^/iT  QeorLLi—irihCcQjp^eiaLD  QtuGfrpesr^, 

It  is  hardly  doubtful  whether  the  author  or  authors 
of  such  miscellanea  had  any  clear  notions  of  the  func- 
tion and  scope  of  Grammar  and  Lexicology.  The  con- 
ceptions of  these  two  disciplines  are  so  hopelessly  mixed 
up  in  these.  Next,  the  style  and  phraseology  of  the 
Sutras  have  neither  simplicity  nor  ancientness  about 
them.  Both  point  unmistakably  to  the  very  latest  period 
in  the  growth  of  grammatical  terminology.  In  the  third 
place,  the  attempt  to  squeeze  the  classification  and  nomen- 
clature of  the  Sanskrit  Grammarians  into  the  facts  of  an 
alien  language  is  only  too  patent  throughout.  The  author 
of  Tolkdppiyaui,  in  spite  of  his  Sanskrit  erudition,  h^d  at 
least  the  sound  instinct  of  a  born  grammarian  to  respect 

1.  This  clearly  referring  to  Panini,  Agastya  must  be 
considered  as  having  lived  after  him.  How  could  the  Rg  Vedic 
Agastya  come  after  Panini  ? 


AGASTYA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  43 

the  linguistic  phenomena  of  a  foreign  tongue  and  to  care- 
fully avoid  tampering  with  their  peculiarities  in  his  classi- 
cal grammar.  Later-day  scholars,  in  their  admiration  of 
Sanskrit,  seem  to  have  been  engaged  in  importing  whole- 
sale the  conceptions  and  terminology  of  the  Sanskrit  Gram- 
marians in  the  form  of  stray  sutras  composed  for  the 
nonce  and  fathering  them  on  the  great  saint  Agastya  with  a 
view  to  secure  for  their  productions  an  authority  more 
ancient  and  compelling  than  what  belongs  to  Tolkdppiyani, 
In  the  light  of   the  exuberance  of  this  orthodox  Tamil 

Literature,  the    hypothesis  of  Tolkdppi- 
Agastya  Sutras  ,-^i  ir  it- 

and      Tolkappi-     y^^'^    bemg  the  work  of  an  early    Jama 

y*™'  author  can    scarcely   be  lightly  brush- 

ed aside^      The  difficulty,   however,  of   coming   to  any 

1.  The  identification  of  Tolkappiyar  with  Trnadhiimag- 
ni,  the  son  of  Jamadagni,  the  Vedic  Rsi,  is  due  to  a  later 
tradition  and  is  absolutely  indefensible  on  historical  grounds. 
To  assign  Tolkdppiyam  to  the  fourth  century  A.  D.  is  indeed  a 
reasonable  working  hypothesis  and  this  receives  extraneous 
support  from  the  facts  of  Tamil  Literary  development  also.  If 
however,  the  Vedic  Rsi,  Jamadagni,  the  father  of  Parasurama 
and  of  Trnadhumagni,  is  imported  into  the  story  of  this  work, 
the  whole  ends  in  a  chronological  dislocation  of  no  ordinary 
kind.  That  Jamadagni  lived  towards  the  close  of  the  Krta  Age 
is  the  view  of  the  Puranas.  Summing  up  their  conclusions,  Mr. 
F.  E.  Pargiter  writes,  in  page  315  of  his  Ancient  Indian  Histori- 
cal Traditiofi  thus  : — "  According  to  that  reckoning  Viswamitra 
and  his  sons  (with  whom  began  the  real  Vedic  Age,  as  mention- 
ed above)  lived  towards  the  close  of  the  Krta  Age  and  so  also 
Jamadagni  etc."  The  following  observations  of  Dr.  Burnell  are 
apposite  in  this  connection  :  *'  It  is  possible  to  show  historical- 
ly how  the  Brahman  gradually  supplanted  the  old  Buddhist- 
Jaina  civilization  of  the  Peninsula,  the  earliest  historical  civili- 
zation of  which  there  is  any  record  in  that  part  of  India  ;  and 
the  fact  that  the  Vedas  of  the  South  are  the  same  as  those  of 
the  North  proves  conclusively  that  this  was  done  at  a  time  when 
the  Brahmanas  and  the  Sutras  had  been  definitely  reduced    to 


44  ^  AGASTVA    IN  THE   TAMIL   LAND 

definite  conclusion  on  that  question  arises  from  the 
fact  that  the  theological  conceptions  and  cosmogonic 
legends  of -the  Jainas  show  a  family  likeness  to  those  of 
the  orthodox  Hindus  except  in  a  few  abstract  doctrinal 
points.!  There  is  reason  for  believing  that  the  Agastya 
mint  was  opened  and  kept  going  for  sometime  solely  to 
bring  down  the  authority  of  Tolkappiyam  and  belittle 
its  importance.  Viewed  in  its  historical  setting,  Agastya 
tradition  appears  as  little  else  than  an  orthodox  counter- 
blast to  Tolkappiyam.  But  the  superior  merits  of  that 
work  could  not  thus  be  extinguished.  It  stood  its 
ground  and  even  at  this  distance  of  time  while  a  number 
of  grammatical  works  have  in  the  interim  succeeded  it,  its 
broadly-laid  foundations  have  not  been  touched  nor  the 
classic  brilliance    of  its  superstructure    surpassed.     Thus 

their  present  form  or  at  all  events  not  before  the  Christian 
Era." — Elements  of  South  Indian  Palaeography,  pp.  11 — 12. 

Prof.  E.  J.  Rapson  in  page  66  of  his  work  Ancient  India 
says  "  They  (the  Jains)  have  also  played  a  notable  part  in  the 
civilization  of  Southern  India,  where  the  early  literary  develop- 
ment of  the  Kanarese  and  Tamil  Languages  was  due,  in  a  great 
measure,  to  the  labours  of  Jain  monks." 

].  This  may  be  also  due  to  the  wonderful  assimilative 
capacity  of  the  Hindu  Religion,  which  has  always  received  into 
its  bosom  alien  doctrines,  admitted  into  its  pantheon  alien  gods 
and  thrown  open  the  doors  of  its  hagiology  to  alien  religious 
teachers.  The  admission  of  Buddha,  the  stoutest  and  the 
most  formidable  opponent  of  Brahmanism,  into  the  Hindu 
circle  of  Avatars  is  alone  sufficient  to  establish  the  great  catho- 
licity of  Hinduism.  The  remarkable  strength  of  this  religion  is 
no  doubt  partly  due  to  this. 

That  the  same  tendency  was  powerfully  at  work  in  the 
heterodox  sects  too  need  not  be  doubted.  The  following  obser- 
vation of  Mr.  Vincent  A.  Smith  applies  with  double  force  to  the 
Jaina  sect  :  "  The  newer  form  of  Buddhism  had  much  in 
common  with  older  Hinduism  and  the  relation  is  so  close  that 
even  an    expert    often  feels  a  difficulty  in    deciding  to   which 


AGASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  ,  45 

there  is  ample  justification  for  concluding  that  the  Agastya 
tradition  is  decidedly  posterior  to  the  early  Jaina  period^ 
of  Tamil  Literature,  and  must  be  ascribed  to  the  age  which 
succeeded  the  composition  of  Tolkdppiyam.  Another 
ground  of  improbability  of  the  so-called  Agaslyam  being 
anterior  to  Tolkappiyam  may  also  be  adverted  to  here.  If 
the  original  grammar,  AgasiyaWj  had  really  treated  of  the 
three  kinds  of  Tamil,  viz.,  lyalj  Icai,  and  Ndtakaiu,  there 
was  hardly  any  reason  for  Tolkappiyar  to  omit  the  treat- 
ment of  Icai  and  Ndtakam  \n  his  great  work.  He  too 
would  have  followed  his  predecessor  and  given  his  gram- 
mar an  all-comprehensiveness  which,  at  present,  it  lacks. 
His  failure  to  do  so  was  due  simply  to  the  fact  that  the 
tripartite  classification  of  Tamil  into  lyaly  Icai  and 
Ndtakam  did  not  exist  in  his  time.  It  was  introduced 
only  at  a  later  stage  of  the  growth  of  the  Tamil  Language 
and  stamps  Agasiyam  as  a  work  of  that  period. 

The  time  and  circumstances  of  the  origin  of  Agastya 

sutras,  no  less  than  their  language  and 
Agastya    Sutras—  ,  ,  .,,  ,         , 

A  Later  Forgery,     import,  are  such  as  will    warrant   only 

one  conclusion,  that  the  whole  mass  of 

them  is  a  bare-faced  forgery — not,  of  course,  committed  by 

a  single  writer  at  a  single  period  of  time  but  the  result  of 

different  authors  at  diverse  times  contributing  their  share 

to    the    pile,    whose    sundry    fragments    challenge   our 


system  a  particular  image  should  be  assigned." — Early  History 
of  India,  p.   319. 

Compare  also  Mr.  Vincent  A.  Smith's  views  in  the  same 
work  re  the  absorption  of  foreign  elements  into  the  Hindu 
Society,  given  in  pages  340  and  341  and  the  decay  of  Buddhism 
in  India,  in  p.  382. 

1.  The  age  of  Tiruiianasambandha  and  Tirunavukka- 
rasu,  about  the  beginning  of  the  7th  century  A.  D.  may  be 
taken  as  the  dividing  line  which  marks  the  earlier  and  the  later 
periods  of  the  Jain  History  in  Tamilagam. 


46  AGASTVA   IN   THE  TAMIL   LAND 

attention  to-day  and  create  a  problem  in  the  linguistic  and 
literary  history  of  Tamil  for  solution.  That  this  is  not 
mere  idle  theorizing  will  come  home  to  the  reader  if  he 
has  the  patience  to  scrutinize  a  little  the  language  of  the 
following  Agastya  sutras  extracted  from  the  commentaries 
of  Naccinarkkiniyar  on  Jivaka'Cintamani  and  of  Atiyark- 
kunallar  on  Cilappatikdrarn, 

1.      '*  ^frih^s  «i_;^^Lo  <oS(oiB(T^s  s^^^Qmasr 
(rrf>ujfB^p  Q/^^^ssr  esrs^^uj^    (rrj>Qesr," 

3,      fi^samrs  Qistr^/D'SJ  siriB^tTnth  U(i^s=LDQu) 
^ssiEj  SL^Q^n'm  ffrrsQiL — lEiss^pp 
srriifirrir  QiDGiresi/DfB^ui  uir*^^  ^pQu>Gsr(irj>rr 

Is  it  unfair  to  suppose  that  these  late  commenta- 
tors, who  quote  such  sutras  without  letting  us  know 
whence  they  drew  them,  should  have  really  intend- 
ed that  they  should  be  taken  for  Agastya  sutras  ?  If 
Agastya  were  the  real  author,  why  should  he  have  refer- 
red to  himself  at  all  and  that  also  in  the  third  person  ? 
Surely,  one  will  find  it  difficult  to  ascribe  such  vanity,  as 
this  language  pre-supposes,  to  a  Sage  of  Agastya's  saintli- 
ness  and  eminence.  The  only  way  then  of  explaining 
away  what  to  us  looks  like  effrontery  is  to  conclude 
that  these  are  not  the  genuine  writings  of  Agastya  but 
only  forgeries  perpetrated  by  the  later  devotees  of 
the  Agastya  cult.  The  reference  to  these  sutras  in 
the  commentaries  does  in  no  way  establish  their 
authenticity.  On  the  other  hand,  they  are  rendered 
doubly  suspicious,  first  by  the  suppression  of  the  names  of 
their  authors  and  secondly  by  the  absence  of  the  original 
Agastya  siitras  on  which  these  later  ones  might  be  suppo- 
sed to  have  been  based.  Hence  this  floatsam  and  jetsam 
of  Agastya  Literature  deserves  only  to  be  stored   away  in 


AGASTVA   IN   THE  TAMIL   LAND  47 

a  Special  niche  reserved  for  literary  forgeries  until  their 
authenticity  is  vouched  for  by  extraneous  evidence  of  an 
incontrovertible  kind. 

Human    mind  loves   the    marvellous.       Even    now" 

it  has  not  clean   outgrown   that   habit. 

Agastya   Tradition    When    once     the    Agastya    Tradition 

Literature.  ^^^'^    ^as  planted  in  the  Tamil  soil,  it  burst 

into  a  rank  and  over-abundant  growth. 

The  following  quotations  from  certain  later  Tamil    works 

will  bear  this  out. 

Pannirupatalam  has  the  following  in  its  Pdyiram : 
**  sSisj(^JSiL-  ^®^^  eSlujearsem  (^rr&i ^^^ 

qi(tQ<^  Qh^^ld  QjmuQLDfrL^u  ue\}Ljsi^ 
^(S^u  Qu(r^es)LD  ^s^^uu  Qearm^ua 
jy (5/5^0;  (tpsfffloj  (ev)sQiJU  Qp^^&d 
Qun'(mfB^s  sjbstiu  l/cto/t^zj  <si\estsiniBQ ^rrr 

The  Pdyiram    of  Piirapporul    Venpd  Mdlai  contains 
this  : 

'*  lH&fTGsfluJ  &JDLJl3^  Q]rrQ(GV)IT  C^QJSSarL^jS 

^GirGsr0<^  9^^^l^  Q^rr&jafTU  iSliLKsar, 
The  Pdyiram  of  Akapporul  Vilakkam  runs  thus  : 

^'^SL-  eoi—sQ  meouj^  ^(t^ib^ 
^d^iflOiGsr  pearuiT  eSuupptS  QpeamiriBfi 

The  Divdkaram  has  the  following  : 

"  Q30fSp  StkiGSiS    QJI^^GJi^U  Qu^esiiniLfii 


48  AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

(^6m  i^ssiS u  ui^Lht-jearp  SfreSffiu  Qu0ihu^ 

These     references    are    enough     to  establish    how    the 
'  Agastya  tradition  first    began    in    the  upper   stratum    of 
Tamil  Literature  before  trickling  down  to  its  lower  or  the 
popular  level. 

Leaving  these,  if  we  turn  to  Tamil    Puranic    Litera- 
ture of   still    later    times,   the    Agastya 

Agastya  Tradition     legend  will  be  found  to  have  grown   in 
in    Tamil  Pura-         ^  ,       ,   .  ,      ,       , 

nic  Literature.         extent   and    elaborateness,    which   the 

earlier  writers  could  hardly  have  even 
imagined.  The  first  promulgators  of  the  Puranas  in 
the  Tamil  land  being  Poets,  the  characters  and  inci- 
dents of  North  Indian  Traditions  were  imported  bodily 
into  their  works  and  handled  with  a  freedom  which  the 
imaginative  children  of  Poetry  alone  possess.  Kanta- 
puranam  (^),  Kacikantam  (6),  Tirukkurralappuranam  (c), 
Tiruvehkatattalappuranam  (</),  Tirunelvelittalappuranam 
(c),  Kutantaippuranam  (/),  Mayilaippuranam  (g),  Veta- 
raniyappuranam  (/i),  ^  to  mention  only  a  few,  have  each 
something  to  say  about  the  saint  and  his  miraculous  perfor- 
mances. The  array  of  the  Puranic  battalion  is  indeed 
tremendous,  but  its  arms  are  loaded  with  only  blank 
cartridges.  It  may  envelop  itself  in  vast  volumes  of 
smoke  and  rattle  ;  but  for  hitting  at  one  fact  of  history 
it    has   not  the   means.     Still   some  people  feel   a   sort 


1.  (a)  vide  ^s^^uuuuL-eofh. 
p.  198. 

ff(Tf)SSLD 

111)     .,,      LDSSBjQjfTefrdQa.reos^  ,SF(T^dsijD, 


(b) 

V 

(c) 

yy 

(d) 

ft 

(e) 

'f 

(/) 

f* 

(g) 

)f 

AGASTYA   IN  THE   TAMIL   LAND  49 

of  unctuous  over-scrupulousness  of  spirit  and  refrain 
from  rejecting  these  myths  of  the  poets  as  utterly 
worthless  for  historic  purposes.  Emulating  the 
example  of  historians  who  try  to  extract  some  grains  of 
truth  from  ancient  traditions,  they  go  on  to  argue 
whether  the  testimony  of  such  a  goodly  company 
of  Puranic  poets  should  not  after  all  have  some  bed- 
rock of  truth  underneath.  This  is  entirely  misconceiving 
the  problem  that  has  been  set  forth  in  this  paper  and  the 
method  adopted  for  its  solution.  Inductive  methods, 
which,  when  applied  to  facts,  are  a  fruitful  source  of 
truth,  will  yield  only  fictitious  generalizations  when  ap- 
plied to  fictions.  There  is  no  intrinsic  merit  in  these 
scientific  methods  to  impart  to  the  materials  to  which 
they  are  applied  the  validity  of  truth  that  they  may 
otherwise  lack.  It  is  surprising  that  this  commonplace 
of  scientific  doctrine  and  practice  is  forgotten  by  those 
who  want  to  appeal  to  the  testimony  of  numbers,  where 
•each  number  counted  is  little  better  than  a  zero.  Surely, 
the  false  concurrent  statement  of  a  hundred  unveracious 
witnesses  will  not  make  that  statement  true  simply  be- 
•cause  their  number  happens  to  be  hundred.  On  the 
rUiethod  of  inductive  reasoning  these  adopt,  almost  every 
•character  of  every  poet  and  mythologist  must  be  credited 
with  real  existence.  Would  Shakespeare  have  treated  the 
history  of  Falstaff  in  three  successive  plays  of  his,  if  there 
had  not  been  some  real  Falstaff  to  become  the  hero  of  so 
many  exploits  and  escapades  ?  How,  for  instance,  could 
the  numerous  adventures  and  hairbreadth  escapes  of  the 
;great  detective  hero,  Sherlock  Holmes,  be  made  consis- 
tent with  his  assumed  non-existence?  The  numerous 
exploits  of  those  two  heroes  should  force  us  to  conclude 
that,  discounting  much  as  due  to  poetic  fancy  or  a  nove- 
list's imagination,  there  must  still  remain  a  nucleus, of 
solid  fact  at  the  core.  A  reasoning  like  this  is  not  at  all 
A— 7 


50  AGASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

different  in  essentials  from  that  which  guides  certain  in- 
vestigators in  their  work  of  constructing  history  with  the 
help  of  the  Puranic  poets.  The  attempts  of  these  remind 
us  of  the  venerable  Professors  of  the  University  of  Lagado,. 
who  were  engaged  in  grim  earnest  in  extracting  sunbeams 
from  cucumbers. 

When  Agastya  passed  from  the   hands  of  the    Poets 
to  the  care  of  the  masses,  his  saintliness 

Apotheosis      of     came  to    be    im mediate! v   surrounded 
Agastya. 

with  a  halo  of  divinity.  In  all  coun- 
tries and  at  all  times,  group  psychology  has  been  charac- 
terised by  one  feature — its  tendency  to  occupy  extremes 
either  way.^  Hence,  measured  judgments,  appreciation 
within  limits,  are  not  of  the  people.  They  must  make  of 
the  persons  brought  to  their  bar  either  a  god  or  a  deviL 
Naturally,  therefore,  the  popular  Agastya  was  raised  at 
once  to  the  rank  of  a  divinity  and  their  worshipful  hom- 
age flowed  towards  him  in  an  unceasing  stream.  A 
temple  too,  known  as  Agastisvaram,  was  raised  in  his 
honour  and  it  stands  to  this  day  some  four  or  five  miles 
to  the  north  of  Cape  Comorin.  Though  this  temple  has 
now  fallen  into  neglect,  it  must  have  at  one  time  attract- 
ed a    large  concourse  of  votaries  and   been  an  important 


1.  "  It  is  the  lack  of  the  conditions  necessary  to 
collective  resolution  and  volition  that  renders  a  crowd  so  fickle 
and  so  inconsistent  ;  so  capable  of  passing  from  one  extreme  of 
acjtion  to  apother»  of  hurrying  to  death  the  man  whom  it  glori- 
fied at  an  earlier  moment,  or  of  turning  from  savage  butchery 
to  tender  and  tearful  solicitude." — ^William  McDougall's  '  Group 
Mindy^g,  45.  Just  as  the  lack  of  the  conditions  necessary  to 
collective  resolution  leads  to  the  fickleness  of  the  crowd,  so  also 
the  want  of  facilities  for  collective  deliberation  and  judgment 
of  the  populace  precludes  the  application  of  the  necessary 
corrective  and  brings  about  the  extremist  character  of  popular 
judgments  in  general. 


AGASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  51 

place  of  pilgrimage.  That  Agastisvaram  may  have  once 
enjoyed  its  heyday  of  prosperity  is  rendered  probable  by 
the  fact  that  the  Taluq  or  revenue  division  in  which  it  is 
located  is  even  now  known  as  Agastisvaram  Taluq  in 
South  Travancore.^  Not  only  this,  there  are  certain 
communities  in  that  part  of  the  country,  the  weaving 
class  for  instance,  who  consider  the  saint  as  their  own 
tribal  deity  and  offer  him  regular  daily  worship. 

Another  religious  cult  also  later  on  seems  to  have 
mingled  itself  with  the  Agastya.  When  the  ^aivite  reli- 
gious philosophers  appeared  and  began  to  spiritualize  still 
more  the  religious  conceptions  of  the  earlier  Nayanmars 
in  South  India,  they  depicted  God  as  the  spiritual  guru 
who  would  present  himself  before  devout  and  ripe  souls 
and  free  them  from  the  coils  of  Karma  and  rebirth  by 
bestowing  mukU  on  them.  This  special  grace  on  the 
part  of  ^iva,  the.  Supreme  Lord,  became  one  of  the 
cardinal  doctrines  of  the  ^aiya  Siddhanta  School  of 
Philosophy,  which  even  now  claims  the  largest  number 
of, adherents  in  South  India.  That  ^aivism,  at  least  in 
its  latest  phase,  emphasising  as  it  did  Gurti-Bhakii  as  the 
foremost  virtue  amongst  its  three  types  of  spiritual  devo- 
tion, powerfully  reacted  on  the  Agastya  cult  and  helped 
its  spread  amongst  the  masses  goes  without  saying.  An 
acarya  of  the  type  of  Agastya,  hovering  midway  between 
Divinity  and  man,  could  very  easily  be  taken  for  Siva. 
Guru  or  the  divine  teacher  himself.  And  in  fact  no 
orthodox  Saivite  could  afford  to  treat  a  religious  guru 
with  indifferent  feelings  lest  he  should  thereby  lose  the 
chance  of   salvation,  which  would  be  vouchsafed  to  him 

1.     There  is  a  village  known  as  Tiru-Agattiyanpalli,  about 
two  miles  to  the  south   of  Tirumaraikkatu,  in  the  Tanjore  Disi 
trict.  The  Saint  is  said  to  have  performed  penance  here  for  sbm« 
time.  This  place  comes  within  the  itinerary  of  the  Saiva  devotee' 
Tirunanasambandha  and  is  lo'tand  mentioned  in  one  6f  his  hy^ftins:. 


Sf  AGASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

by  Siva  himself  appearing  in  the  form  of  a  human  teacher, 
at  some  lime  or  other.  Thus,  in  the  identification  of  the 
Saint  with  Siva  Guru  MCuttam,  brought  about  by  the 
exigencies  of  Saivite  reHgious  development,  the  apotheosis 
of  Agastya  reaches  its  finale  in  the  Tamil  land. 

The  following  details  given  in  Mr.  Gangoly's  article 
in  the  Journal  of  the  Mythic  Society  throw  a  fresh  light  on 
an  earlier  phase  of  the  same  religious  tendency  working 
itself  out  in  the  Malay  islands  in  the  East.  In  Java 
certain  images  called  '*  Siva  Guru "  or  "  Trisula " 
images  are  found  in  many  places  and  are  worshipped 
as  those  of  Agastya,  who  is  believed  to  have  been 
the  first  missionary  of  Saivism  in  that  country. 
This,  in  a  wav,  explains  how  in  the  mainland  of 
India  Agastya  cult  received  a  fresh  impetus  by  its  alliance 
with  the  Saiva  revivalism,  especially  during  its  later 
stages  when  its  doctrines  and  rituals  were  elaborated  and 
codified  by  Meykanta  Teva  and  the  other  religious 
philosophers  who  followed  him.  That  of  all  teachers 
Agastya  should  be  brought  in  to  collect  and  arrange  the 
Tevara  hymns  lets  in  some  light  on  the  religious  tenden- 
cies of  that  time.  In  the  distant  Java  too,  Agastya's  name 
became  intertwined  with  that  of  Siva  or  Siva  Guru  and 
assumed  a  sectarian  importance  of  its  own.  The  disillu- 
sion in  the  matter  of  the  people  worshipping  the  Siva 
Guru  images  as  the  Agastya  came,  however,  from  an  un- 
expected, but  authoritative  quarter.  Dr.  V^ogel,  the 
eminent  Dutch  Archaeologist,  to  whom  the  photographs 
of  the  Siva  Guru  images  were  sent  for  inspection  and 
identification,  came  to  the  correct  conclusion  that  the 
images,  all  of  which  bore  the  Trisula  or  the  trident  in 
their  hands,  were  those  of  Siva  and  not  of  Agastya. 
From  my  own  inspection  of  the  photos  I  was  satisfied 
that  all  the  images  were  Siva's  and  that  Dr.  Vogel  had 
given  the  correct  verdict  in  the  matter.     Further,  from  the 


AGASTVA   IN  THE   TAMIL   LAND  53 

extract  in  page  55  of  this  paper  from  Bergaine's  Sanskrit 
Inscriptions  of  Champa^  it  will  be  seen  that  Agastya 
journeyed  to  Cambodia  to  preach  the  worship  of  ^iva- 
lingam  known  as  Sri  Bhadresvara.  The  Siva  Guru  images 
of  Java  are  also  known  as  Bhattaraka  Guru  images.  Bha- 
dresvara of  Cambodia  and  Bhattaraka  of  Java  bear  a  close 
resemblance  and  may  be  variant  forms  of  probably  one 
name.*  However,  this  is  a  matter  for  Sanskritists  to  decide. 
Having  been  thus  deified  Agastya  has  come  to 
evoke  the  greatest  veneration  among  the  people.  This 
wave  of  piety  led  to  a  fresh  recrudescence  of  m}ihs  and 
miracles  which  have  now  literally  buried  the  original 
figure  '^  ten  thousand  fathoms  deep."  One  need  not 
wonder  at  the  fecundity  of  the  imagination,  from  the 
most  cultivated  to  the  most  ignorant,  thus  piling  on  the 
devoted  head  of  Agastya  layer  after  layer  of  legends  of 
every  description  and  colour.  Almost  every  century  had 
its  quota  to  add  and  if  the  mass  of  tradition  will  in  any 
manner  supply  a  standard  for  determining  the  period  of  its 
growth  and  accumulation,  at  least  a  thousand  years  may 
fairly  be  allowed  for  the  Agastya  cult  for  its  development 
to  its  present  dimensions.  Still  in  the  field  of  psycho- 
logy of  a  race,  we  cannot  absolutely  be  sure  of  the  vali- 
dity of  such  surmises.^       When  a  Geologist  calculates 

*These  words  are  given  the  following  meanings  in  Sir 
Monier  William's  Dictionary. 

Bhadresvara  =  Various  Statues  or  Lingas  of  Siva. 

Bhattaraka  =  Buddhist  teachers  and  Saiva  monks. 

1.  Though  the  lore-dimension  and  quality  of  a  tradition 
may  give  us  an  idea  of  its  age,  it  is  not  at  all  possible  to  reach 
a  correct  standard  for  its  age-determination.  Judged  either 
by  quantity  or  quality  of  the  materials  that  have  gathered 
round  certain  popular  heroes  of  recent  dates  handed  down 
in  ballad  poetry  of  the  day,  such  as  Muttu  Bhattan  and 
Maturai  Viran  of  later    myths,    as    Jai  Singh  and  Khan    Sahib 


54  AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

the  age  of  a  river  by  the  successive  layers  of  its  alluvial 
deposit,  he  can  positively  be  sure  of  his  ground  and  con- 
clusions for  he  is  only  dealing  with  unvarying  physical 
forces  that  have  at  no  point  of  time  ceased  working. 
Not  so  in  the  present  case,  where  the  thought  and  life  of 
a  nation  are  dealt  with.  There  may  be  centuries  of  stag- 
nation to  be  succeeded  by  others  of  unusual  productivity 
and  progress.  The  concatenation  of  circumstances  which 
brings  this  about  will  defy  the  analysis  of  even  the  most 
accomplished  historian.  Yet  with  all  these  uncertainties 
which  affect  the  later  stages  in  the  development  of  the 
Agastya  cult,  the  tradition  itself,  according  to  the  testi- 
mony of  the  early  literature  examined,  cannot  be  taken 
behind  the  5th  Century  A.D. 

Viewing  the  Agastya  tradition  as  a   whole   from   its 

inception  to   its  most  recent  develop- 
Intrinsic Improba-  ^     •.     .  •,  •      .• 

bilities.  ment,   it  strikes  us   as   an   imaginative 

structure  of  magnificent  proportions. 

In  the  first  place,  the  reason  assigned  for  the  Agastya 
exodus  is  too  mythical  for  ordinary  human  belief.  It  is 
stated  that  he  was  sent  to  the  South  by  God  ^iva  himself 
to  equalize  the  balance  of  the  southern  half  of  the  Globe 
with  the  northern.  This  primitive  conception  of  the  one 
portion  of  the  earth  tilting  up  and  another  sinking  down — 
not  certainly  by  any  geological  catastrophe — but  by  the 
sheer  weight  of  the  heavenly  hosts  gathered  on  the 
Himalayan  top — is  too  puerile  for  serious  criticism. 


probably  of  the  Carnatic  Wars,  as  Katta  Bommu  and  Umai  Durai 
of  the  Poligar  Wars  of  Tinnevelly,  these  recent  legends  seem 
to  vie  with  the  older,  both  in  their  elaborate  character  and  in 
their  mythic  ingredients.  So  the  massiveness  of  a  tradition  by 
itself  is  not  a  safe  guide  for  the  determination  of  its  age. 


AGASTVA    IN   THE  TAMIL   LAND  55 

Secondly,  his  residences  in  the  South  are  too  numer- 
ous and  far  distant  one  from  another  to  be  received  as  his- 
lorical  facts.  He  had  his  residence  hrst  on  the  southern 
outskirts  of  the  Vindhya  Mountains,  next  on  the  Mount 
Vaiduryain  the  Satpura  range,  then  on  the  Malakuta  near 
Badami,  then  on  the  Pothiyil  in  the  Pandya  country,  and 
lastly  he  appears  to  have  migrated  beyond  the  sea  to  the 
Malaya  Hill  in  Sumatra  and  thence  moved  on  to  Siam  and 
Cambodia.  1  Is  it  possible  for  one  man  to  have  displayed 
such  catholicity  of  taste  for  a  series  of  hill  residences 
scattered  throughout  the  Peninsular  India  and  the 
numerous  Indonesian  Islands  in  the  East  ?2 

Thirdly,  a  like  improbability  arises  from  Agastya 
officiating   as    the    family    priest    of    the    Calukya    King 


1.  The  following  is  found  quoted  by  Mr.  Gangoly  in  his 
article  on  Agastya  published  in  the  Journal  of  the  Mythic 
Society,  Vol.  XVIII  "  That  Brahmin  Agastya,  born  in  the  land 
of  the  AryanSj  devoted  to  the  worship  of  Shiva,  having  come 
by  his  psychic  powers  in  the  land  of  the  Cambodians  for  the 
Durpose  of  worshipping  the  Shiva  Lingam  known  as  Shri 
Bhadreswara  and  having  worshipped  the  God  for  a  long  time 
attained  beatitude." — Bergaine's  Sanscrit  Inscriptiofts  of 
Champa,  1893,  LXV,  p.  360. 

2.  Certainly  a  feeling  of  monotony  will  creep  on  the 
reader  when  he  tries  to  run  through  the  list  of  the  Agastya  resi- 
dences in  the  various  countries.  The  Mahamalaya  hill  in  the 
Malaya-Dvipa  and  the  Malayan!  Hill  in  Sumatra  come  to  him 
merely  as  the  second  or  third  editions  of  Malakuta  and 
Malaya  of  South  India.  In  short,  the  principle  followed 
appears  to  be  that  wherever  a  mountain  or  hill  raised  its 
head  to  the  sky  Agastya  siiould  be  brought  forthwith  and 
located  there.  A  hill  without  a  Rishi  of  his  eminence,  in  the 
view  of  the  myth-makers,  is  almost  a  contradiction  in 
terms. 


56  AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

Kirliraja  of  Lata,  N.  Guzerat,i  and  of  the  Pandya  King  of 
the  far  away  South. 2  Is  it  probable  that  in  the  condi- 
tions of  South  India  in  that  early  time  when  roads  and 
other  conveniences  of  travel  did  not  exist  that  Agastya 
could  have  had  such  a  large  clientele  of  royalty  to 
minister  to  ? 

Fourthly,  judged  by  our  ordinary  standards,  his  ex- 
ploits are  mostly  superhuman.  Here  human  credu- 
lity is  taxed  a  little  too  much.  These  performances 
hardly  serve  the  purpose  of  establishing  his  historical 
character.  Their  cumulative  effect  after  all  seems  to  be 
the  reverse. 

Fifthly,  his  labours  as  the  pioneer  of  Aryan  civiliza- 
tion in  the  South  and  in  the  East  have  to  surmount  seri- 
ous historical  difficulties,  before  they  are  finally  accepted. 
The  aryanisation  of  the  Maharastra,  then  of  the  Kar- 
nataka,  then  of  the  Tamil  country,  then  of  the  Malay 
islands  and  lastly  of  Siam  and  Cambodia  must  each  be 
assigned  a  few  centuries  at  the  least.  No  ordinary 
human  being  with  a  limited  span  of  life  of  a  hundred 
years  or  thereabouts  could  have  coped  with  this  gigantic 
task  on  a  scale  so  colossal.  Nor  can  it  be  pretended 
with  due  respect  for  the  facts  of  history  that  the  aryanis- 
ation of  these  various  countries  was  simultaneous  and 
could  be  compressed  into  the  limited  space  of  one  identi- 
cal century.  These  are  a  few  of  the  difficulties  present- 
ed to  us  by  the  Agastya  tradition. 

Thus  we  find  that  judged  by  the  two  fundamental 
tests  referred  to  at  the  beginning  viz.y  (i)  unbroken  conti- 
nuity of  tradition  with  the  past  and  (ii)  absence  of  inherent 

1.  Vide  t\\^  Journal  of  the  Mythic  Society,  Vol.  XVTII^ 
p.  68. 

2.  Vide  Sinnamanur  plate  where  Sundara  Pandya  is 
referred  to  as  Agastya  Sisya. 


AGASTVA    IN   THE   TAMIL  LAND  57 

contradictions,    the    Agastya     tradition     breaks     down 
completely. 

Yet  attempts  have  not  been  wanting  to  rescue  the 
sage  from  the  atmosphere  of  pure  myth 
^tSn"/ividual.'  and  invest  him  with  a  sort  of  historic 
personality  as  that  of  Alexander  the 
Great  for  instance.  Mr.  O.  C.  Gangoly  in  an  article 
contributed  to  ihe  Journal  of  the  Mythic  Societyy  calls  him 
the  leader  of  the  Aryans  in  the  great  task  of  the  aryanis- 
ation  of  Daksinapatha.  The  Aryan  immigration  into 
Europe,  into  Iran,  into  North  India,  all  appear  to  have 
been  accomplished  without  a  personal  leader  to  direct 
the  hosts.  In  the  case  of  South  India  alone  a  leader  was 
found  necessary.  Probably  this  last  migration  being 
the  latest,  the  leader's  name  here  has  not  fallen  into 
oblivion.  Whatever  it  be,  the  fiction  of  ascribing  the 
origin  and  source  of  national  movements  and  extensive 
social  phenomena  to  single  persons  has  unhappily  not  yet 
expired.  In  fact,  national  migrations  are  the  results  of 
social  conditions  and  forces  existing  and  working  at  the 
time  and  could  in  no  way  be  ascribed  to  the  thoughts  and 
desires  of  individual  men,  however  great  they  may  be.  In 
such  movements  communal  or  national  leaders  may  arise 
and  take  a  prominent  part ;  when  they  do  so,  we  should 
Tiew  them  as  acting  under  some  sort  of  social  necessity 
and  compulsion  and  not  as  free  agents  drawing  humanity 
after  them  as  mere  pawns  or  automata.  Even  the 
masterful  Alexander  the  Great  could  not  push  his  expedi- 
tion further  into  the  heart  of  India  because  of  the  opposi- 
tion of  his  troops.  He  had  to  retrace  his  steps.  The 
correct  reading  of  the  great  characters  of  history  is  not  to 
view  them  as  isolated  figures,  standing  on  a  pinnacle  of 
their  own  and  moulding  the  destinies  of  millions  as  it 
pleased  them,  but  as  the  highest  embodiments  of  the 
spirit  of  their  times,  the  recognized  channels  through 
A^8 


5S  AGASTVA    IN   THE   TAMIL    LAND 

which  the  social  forces  had  to  work  their  way  out  for  the 
accomplishment  of  their  task  set  by  the  communal  or 
national  will.  The  ancient  history  of  almost  every 
country  is  filled  with  heroes.  But  to  understand  such 
heroes  aright  depends  largely  on  the  way  in  which  their 
life-history  is  approached  and  studied.  The  appearance 
of  the  scientific  method  in  history,  superseding  the 
ancient  artistic  one,  introduces  a  new  angle  of  vision 
and  with  it  a  new  valuation  of  historical  data.  Where  the 
pre-scientilic  recorder  of  facts  laid  too  much  stress  on 
one  human  spirit  embodied  in  a  hero,  as  descending  upon 
humanity  from  a  sphere  of  its  own,  the  scientific  historian, 
grown  perhaps  a  little  impervious  to  the  pr'-'mptings  of 
hero-worship,  tries  to  dissect  that  spirit  and  read  therein 
the  reactions  to  its  environment,  to  the  peculiar  stresses 
and  pulls  which  had  played  about  it  and  helped  it  on 
towards  its  development  into  a  full-blown  personality.^ 
Science  is  not  blind  wonder  but  it  is  admiration  built  on 
positive  analytic  knowledge.  It  will  untie  the  strands  of 
a  rope  to  its  last  filament  to  understand  it  aright  before 
admiring  it.     In  judging  the  national  events  of  a  time  far 

1 .  "  As  Theodore  Merz  has  so  well  shown  in  the  fourth 
volume  of  his  monumental  work  of  the  Synthetic  mode  of  re- 
garding organisms,  men  and  institutions,  not  as  single  things, 
self-contained  and  complete  in  themselves,  but  as  merely  nodes 
or  meeting  points  of  all  the  forces  of  the  world  acting  and  re- 
acting in  unlimited  time  and  space.'' — William  McDougall's 
Group  Miiid^  p.  2. 

"  People  are  always  talking  about  originality  ;  but  what 
do  they  mean  ?  As  soon  as  we  are  born,  the  world  begins 
to  work  upon  us,  and  this  goes  on  to  the  end.  And,  after  all, 
what  can  we  call  our  own  except  energy,  strength  and 
will  ?  If  I  could  give  an  account  of  all  that  I  owe  to  great 
predecessors  and  contemporaries,  there  would  be  but  a  small 
balance  in  my  favour" — Goethe's  Literary  Essays  (Spingarn's 
translation)  pp.  256-257. 


AGASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND  59 

removed  from  ours,  no  doubt  the  mind,  not  being  in 
possession  of  the  social  factors  of  those  by-gone  times,  is 
disposed  to  catch  hold  of  a  hero,  real  or  imaginary,  here 
and  there,  and  ascribe  to  him  all  the  events  of  a  particu- 
lar epoch,  which  have  to  be  somehow  accounted  for.  This 
hankering  after  the  creation  of  heroes  may  be  artistically 
satisfying  and  even  praiseworthy  in  its  own  way  but  must 
impede  the  growth  of  a  true  scientific  history  in  our  land. 
Applying  this  principle  of  criticism  to  the  Agastya 
tradition  in  South  India  and  Further  India,  we  find 
that  the  burden  sought  to  be  placed  is  too  vast  even 
for  the  Atlantean  shoulders  of  an  Agastya  to  bear. 
If  he  were  a  historical  figure,  as  some  are  disposed  to 
contend,  his  works  should  be  judged  by  the  ordinary 
canons  of  historic  criticism.  And  what  was  his  work  in 
South  India  and  outside  ?  As  already  stated,  it  is  nothing 
less  than  the  introduction  of  Aryan  knowledge  and  cul- 
ture, Aryan  beliefs  and  customs,  Aryan  religion  and  philo- 
sophy, in  the  Peninsular  India  from  the  Vindhyas  to  Cape 
Comorin,  in  the  whole  group  of  Indonesian  Islands  and 
in  Siam  and  Cambodia  still  farther  East.  Even  on  the 
supposition  that  he  was  only  the  originator,  the  initiator 
of  the  movement,  in  all  these  countries  and  not  the  later 
architect  of  the  works  in  different  areas,  one  has  still  to 
admit  that  the  aryanisation  of  all  these  countries  was 
started  simultaneously  and  should  be  compressed  into  the 
short  space  of  a  sage's  life-time,  say,  a  hundred  or  a 
hundred  and  fifty  years  at  the  most.  Would  any  student 
of  history  stand  by  the  implications  of  this  astounding 
admission  ?  Even  the  conversion  of  the  Dandakaranya 
into  a  habitable  country  for  the  Aryan  colonists  should 
have  taken  up  two  centuries  on  a  moderate  caiculation. 
And  another  two  centuries  for  the  Karnataka  countries 
to  be  aryanised  before  Agastya  could  thmk  of  setting 
his   foot    in    the   Tamil    land.     Is    it    conceivable    that 


60  AGASTVA    IN  THE   TAMIL   LAND 

Agastya  could  ever  have  come  to  the  Tamil  land 
leaving  behind  him  such  a  broad  belt  of  territory  as 
the  Dandakaranya  and  the  Karnataka  peopled  by  alien 
tribes  without  first  thinking  of  aryanising  them  and  secur- 
ing therein  a  firm  base  for  his  further  progress  ?  If 
colonisation  were  his  motive,  these  forest  regions  offered 
him  larger  facilities  than  the  populated  ar-a  of  the  Tamil 
region.  If  on  the  other  hand,  he  acted  the  part  of  a  mere 
missionary  to  bring  the  light  of  his  knowledge  to  the 
TamilianS;  he  might  be  supposed  to  have  come  direct  to 
the  Pandya  country.  But  the  tradition  that  seated  him 
in  the  Malakijta  range  near  Badami  in  the  Kanarese 
country  contradicts  this  supposition.  Accordingly  we 
have  to  assume  that  Agastya  moved  to  the  southern  region 
stage  by  stage.  In  this  scheme,  however,  his  arrival  at 
Pothiyil  would  be  delayed  by  four  or  five  centuries,  at  the 
least.  Could  Agastya  have  lived  so  long  ?  To  meet  this 
difficulty,  we  have  to  assume  either  that  Agastya  was  not 
an  ordinary  mortal  or  that  there  should  have  been  many 
Agastyas  to  carry  on  the  work  of  aryanisation.  The 
former  assumption  removes  the  question  from  the  pale  of 
history  and  the  latter  contradicts  tradition.  All  this 
difficulty  is  due  to  the  champions  of  Agastya  trying  to  mix 
up  two  opposing  view-points,  the  mythical  and  the 
scientific.  In  judging  of  the  historicity  of  Agastya,  ele- 
mentary canons  of  historic  criticism  demand  that  nothing 
of  the  impossibilities  and  improbabilities  of  mythic 
characters  should  be  imported  therein  to  vitiate  our 
c  on  elusion. 

The  upshot  of  the  discussion  regarding  the  historicity 
of  Agastya  then  comes  to  this:  that  the  aryanisation  of  the 
different  countries  of  South  India  can  in  no  way  be  ascribed 
to  one  common  point  of  time  but  must  be  spread  over  a 
few  centuries  and  that  Agastya,  if  he  were  a  historic  charac- 
ter,  could   not    have  lived   all  that    time  to   see  his  work 


AGASTVA   IN   THE  TAMIL   LAND  61 

even  begun  in  those  countries.  He  should  have  been 
long  ago  gathered  to  his  forefathers  before  the  later  stages 
of  the  aryanisation  work  could  be  said  to  have  been  even 
started. 

Whatever  may  be  his  historicity  in  the  Rg  Vedic 
India  of  old,  ue,^  in  the  Punjab  or  in  North  India,  his 
translation  to  the  Pothiyil  of  the  South  is  a  myth  pure 
and  simple  and  cannot  be  accepted  as  a  fact  in  the  primi- 
tive history  of  the  Tamilians.  Not  only  does  it  not  square 
with  the  known  facts  of  South  Indian  Literature  and 
History  but  it  contradicts  them  in  many  vital  particulars. 

It  may  still  be  contended  that  like  Romulus   of   old, 

who  founded  Rome,   Agastya  might  be 

Agastya— A  Semi      considered  as  a  sort  of  semi-historic  per- 
Historic       Per-  __         •   i  .    i_     x  i  r 

sonage.  sonage.     He  might  be  taken  as  one   of 

the  primitive  heroes  of  antiquity,  whose 
features,  though  dimmed  and  distorted  by  tradition,  have 
still  a  ring  of  reality  about  them.  If  he  could  not  be 
brought  before  the  foot-lights  of  history,  he  might  at  least 
be  classed  with  those  pre-historic  figures  who  have 
worked  at  the  foundations  of  a  nation's  culture. 
This,  it  may  be  conceded,  is  a  perfectly  legitimate  hypo- 
thesis. On  the  stage  of  Aryan  history  or  pre-history  the 
sage  fills  a  part,  which  no  historian  would  be  disposed  to 
deny.  If  he  had  been  left  without  disturbance  in  the 
Vedic  milieu  or  in  the  period  to  which  Ramayana  has  a 
bearing,  his  character  would  not  have  suffered.  But  later 
myth-makers,  with  the  strong  instinct  of  hero-worship  in 
them,  would  not  allow  him  to  rest  there.  He  should  be 
resurrected  and  brought  again  on  another  stage  and  that 
also  at  a  far  subsequent  period  to  act  another  drama  of 
momentous  importance.  The  only  difficulty  here  is  one 
'  of  chronology — the  necessity  of  squaring  the  facts  of  one 
individual's  life-time  with  those  of  the  cultural  periods  of 
many  nations  in  India  and  outside.     The  zealous  labours 


62  AGASTVA   IN  THE  TAMIL   LAND 

of  the  mythologists  have  only  gone  to  make  a  primitive 
historical  character,  only  less  and  less  historical  down  the 
ages,  to  the  very  verge  of  his  losing  that  character  alto- 
gether. Their  blind  zeal  has  done  the  greatest  disservice 
to  the  ancient  sage,  whose  very  existence  has  thereby 
come  to  be  doubted.  In  the  limited  view  of  considering 
literature  as  the  standard  for  arriving  at  the  civilization  of 
a  nation,  indeed  it  is  a  far  cry  from  the  Rg  Vedic  Litera- 
ture which  clusters  about  1,500  B.  C,  to  2,000  B.  C.  to 
Tamil  Literature  which  gathers  round  100  A.  D.  How 
could  a  single  character  of  the  primitive  history  of  these 
nations  touch  both  these  ends?  Tliis hiatus  in  chronology 
can  be  remedied  only  by  supposing  that  there  were  more 
Agastyas  at  work  than  we  are  aware  of.  Apart  from  the 
Rg  Vedic  Agastya  and  the  Agastya  of  the  Ramayana 
period,  we  require  at  least  four  more  Agastyas  to  have 
begun  the  aryanisation  of  the  Karnatic  country,  of 
Tamilakam,  of  the  Indonesian  Isles,  and  of  Cambodia.  Is 
it  a  rational  hypothesis  to  make  that  one  particular  family 
should  have  specially  given  birth  to  a  series  of  descen- 
dants on  whom  alone,  of  others,  the  duty  of  the  aryanisation 
of  the  southern  region  devolved?  Or  were  there  many 
families  of  Agastyas  or  many  individuals  with  a  mere  acci- 
dental coincidence  iii  their  names  ?  Would  it  not  be  more 
rational  to  ascribe  the  continuity  of  the  tradition  to  the 
unity  of  the  name  'Agastya'  which  had  struck  root  in  the 
popular  imagination  by  the  labours  of  myth-makers  and 
myth-preachers  rather  than  to  the  unity  of  the  family  from 
which  half-a  dozen  protagahists  of  culture  should  be 
derived  ? 

We  have  now  arrived  at  the  last  stage  to  which  the 

progress  of  thought  in  this  subject 
^gSuharatter'.     should  inevitably  take;us.  Scholars  wHo 

feel  that  the  Agastya  problem  in  South 
Indian.  Histpry  bristles  with  many  insurmountable  diffi- 
culties have  tried  to  modify  the  hypothesis  not  a  little  to 


AGASTVA   IN   THE   TAMIL  LAND  63 

reconcile  it  to  certain  stubborn  facts.  They  realise  that  a 
historical  Agastya  in  view  of  the  stupendous  volume  of 
work  that  falls  to  his  lot — not  in  one  country  but  in  many, 
not  in  one  period  but  in  many — is  absolutely  indefensible. 
Still  to  save  the  situation  they  try  to  read  into  the  events 
of  tiie  aryanising  epoch  a  dominant  ideal,  a  persistent 
note,  running  through  them  all.  Thus  South  Indian 
aryanisation  becomes  a  beautiful  long-drawn-'^ut  alle- 
gory in  their  hands  and  in  such  a  poetic  view  of  the 
whole  process  the  critic  is  precluded  from  demanding 
the  existence  of  a  central  historic  personality.  We  have  to 
take  Agastya  as  neither  more  nor  less  than  the  embodi- 
ment of  the  ideal  of  the  Aryan  nation  in  their  work  of 
spreading  their  culture  and  knowledge  to  different  coun- 
tries of  the  South.  This  new  school  may  urge  that  the 
Agastya  legend  need  not  be  taken  as  treating  of  sober 
facts  of  history  to  be  thrust  into  a  strict  chronological 
frame-work  but  must  be  viewed  as  the  expression  of  a 
generalized  type  of  activity  which  the  Aryan  colonists 
had  been  pursuing  in  the  southern  regions.  Could  not  the 
spirit  of  Agastya — even  after  his  bodily  dissolution — be 
taken  as  animating  his  followers  and  driving  them  on  to 
the  accomplishment  of  the  great  task  to  which  he  had 
first  set  his  hand  ?  Who  will  ever  think  of  controverting 
this  figurative  way  of  interpreting  South  Indian  History  ? 

It  is  far  from  the  purpose  of  this  paper  to  disturb  the 

complacency  of  those  who  believe  that 
Conclusion.  ^        ,    -^  ,.  *  •     ,       .      , 

the  sage  Agastya  lives  to  this  day  in  the 

Pothiyil  Mount  and  remains  invisible  to  ordinary  mortals; 

nor   does  it  aim  to  convert  another  group  which  amuses 

itself  by  pouring  the  new  wine  of  scientific  history  into  the 

old  bottles  of  mythologic  tradition  and  imagines  that  the 

cause  of  both  History  and   Tradition  is  somehow    served 

thereby.     Neither  of  these  is  in  the  least  troubled  by  the 

oft-repeated   taunt  of  the  West  that  the    Indians  have  no 


64  AGASTYA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

historical  sense  and  discrimination.  But  fortunately  for 
the  reputation  of  hidia  thereis  a  numerous  and  growing 
band  of  Indian  scholars,  who  do  not  flinch  from 
applying  the  modern  critical  methods  for  the  construc- 
tion of  a  scientific  history  of  their  past.  To  this  new  and 
influential  class,  the  positive  facts  and  deductions,  I  have 
herein  advanced  about  an  ancient  chapter  in  the  history 
of  the  Tamil ians,  are  commended  for  its  consideration 
and  judgment.  The  late  Mr.  Vincent  Smith  wrote  : 
"  Attention  has  been  concentrated  too  long  on  the  North, 
on  Sanscrit  books  and  on  Indo-Aryan  notions.  It  is  time 
that  due  regard  should  be  paid  to  the  Non-Aryan  element." 
I  need  scarcely  add  that  the  present  is  an  attempt  to  carry 
out  the  wishes  of  that  scholar  in  a  subject  wherein 
independent  Non-Aryan  testimony  is  imperative  and 
should  make  itself  heard. 


APPENDIX  I. 

NOTE  ON  PTOLEMY'S  *  BETTIGO. ' 

Dr.  Caldwell  correctly  identified  this  with  the  Tamil 
Pothigai  or  Pothiyil.  At  the  present  day,  Pothiyil  is  the 
name  only  of  the  southernmost  promontory  of  the  Western 
Ghats,  later  known  also  as  Agastyarkutam.  In  Ptolemy's 
time,  however,  it  appears  to  have  had  a  larger  signification. 
In  Ptolemy's  map,  Mount  Bettigo  stands  for  the  whole  of 
the  southern  portion  of  the  Western  Ghats,  i.e.,  the  Ghats 
running  through  the  Tamil  country  of  those  days.  It 
begins  from  the  northern  confines  of  Dimyrike,  Tamilakam 
or  the  country  of  the  Tamils,  and  runs  down  to  a  distance 
of  nearly  300  miles.  This  range  is  also  known  as  the 
^Malayam'  (lit.  the  mountain  in  Tamil).  If  in  Ptolemy's 
days  the  term  Pothiyil  had  signified  only  the  southernmost 
peak,  surely  he  would  not  have  used  it  to  denote  the  whole 
range  of  the  mountains  occupying  some  hundred  miles. 
The  restriction  of  the  name  Pothiyil  or  Malayam  to  the 
southern  peak  may  probably  have  arisen  at  a  far  later  day. 
Consequently,  to  import  into  the  term  'Pothiyil'  occur- 
ring in  such  works  as  PurandnurUf  Agandnuru,  etc.,  of 
the  "Sangam"  period,  our  modern  restricted  meaning  is 
altogether  wide  of  the  mark  and  entirely  misleading.*  The 


*As  a  glaring  instance  of  this  kind  of  unconscious  misinterpretation,  the 
following  categorical  summary  of  Poet  Mamulanar's  reference  by  Dr.  S. 
Krishnaswami  Aiyangar  in  his  Beginnings  of  South  Indian  History 
(pp.  90-91)  may  be  quoted  here.  It  runs  thus  : — "The  fact  of  the  invasion 
of  the  south  by  the  Mauryas,  the  southernmost  point  reached  being  Podiyil 
Hill  in  the  S.  W.  Comer  of  Madura."  It  is  superfluous  to  point  out  that 
Dr.  S.  K.  Aiyangar  has  thus  sought  to  bring'the  Mauryas  down  to  the  present- 
day  Pothiyil,  being  evidently  misled  therein  by  the  restricted  current  denota- 
A— 9 


66  AGASTYA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

earlier  extended  signification  receives  considerable  support 
from  the  fact  that  the  kingdom  of  Aioi  (Aayi),  the  Pothi^ 
yil  chieftain  in  Ptolemy's  days,  comprised  not  merely  the 
country  adjoining  the  present-day  Pothiyil  but  extended 
far  to  the  north  and  west  as  far  as  Melkynda  (the 
Nelkynda  of  the  Periplus)^  the  NIrkunram  or  Nira- 
nam  near  Kottayam  in  th6  northern  district  of  Travan- 
core.  Mr.  Cunningham  in  his  Geography  of  Ancient 
India  (p.  552)  states  that,  in  the  Chino-Japanese  map 
of  India,  the  alternative  name  of  Malayakuta,  the 
southern  portion  of  the  Ghats,  is  given  as  Hai-an- 
men,  which  suggests  a  connection  with  Ptolemy's  Aioi. 
Further,  this  extended  earlier  signification  of  the  term 
'Pothiyil'  serves  to  give  us  the  correct  derivation  of  the 
name,  besides  shedding  some  light  on  the  political  divi- 
sions of  Tamilakam  in  the  early  centuries.  It  is  clear  that 
it  originally  meant  a  common  place,  lying  unappropriated 
by  any  one,  though  latterly  it  came  to  mean  a  place  of 
public  resort  or  meeting  as  u^esrpu).  It  formed  probably 
also  the  sheep  or  cattle  range  of  a  tribe  of  shepherds  and 
cowherds  known  as  Poihuvar.  As  this  range  of  hills 
(Malayam)  ran  through  the  heart  of  the  territories  of  the 
three  Tamil  Sovereigns  of  that  period  (Chera,  Chola  and 
Pandya)  and  separated  their  respective  spheres  of  rule,, 
it  was  considered  by  them  a  common  belt  of  hill-region 
not  belonging  to  any  one  king  exclusively.  As  Aioi,  the 
chieftain  of  a  hill  or  forest  region,  was  the  earliest  occupant 


tion  of  that  name.  Further,  the  Mokur  referred  to  in  one  of  Mamulanar's- 
stanzas  (Akam  25l)  as  the  capita]  of  the  chief  whose  recalcitrancy  is  said  to 
have  brought  about  the  Mauryan  invasion  is  not  different,  I  should  think, 
from  Ptolemy's  'Magour'  which  is  stated  to  be  an  inland  city  in  the  Paralia 
of  the  Soretai  (Chojas).  Mokur  thus  falls  outside  the  Pandya  country.  But 
here  also  Dr.  S.  K.  Aiyangar  seems  to  have  been  misled  by  Mahamaho- 
padhyaya  Swaminatha  Aiyar's  erroneous  Identification  of  the  place  in  his 
introduction  to  his  Puranauuru  as  a  town  situate  in  the  Pandyan  territory.. 
"NV^hether  the  term  Pothiyil  occurring  in  this  stanza  refers  to  a  hill  at  all  is 
highly  doubtful.     But  that  need  not  be  gone  into  at  present. 


APPENDIX   I  67 

of  the  lands  on  both  sides  of  the  Ghats  (the  village 
Aykkudi  in  the  Shencottah  taluq  on  the  eastern  side 
of  the  Ghats  will  testify  to  Aioi's  connection  with 
the  east),  he  seems  to  have  appropriated  the  name  and 
called  himself  the  chieftain  of  Pothiyil  and  it  is 
more  than  likely  that  his  tribe  was  also  known  as  the 
Pothuvar.  This  territory  was  afterwards  merged  in  the 
Pandya  kingdom  and  the  Pandyas  then  came  to  be  distin- 
guished in  literature  as  the  'lords  of  the  Pothiyil'.  At  that 
time  the  Pandya  country  covered  almost  the  whole  of 
Travancore  and  Tinnevelly  and  Madura.  But  subsequent 
historical  vicissitudes  have  brought  about  a  shrinkage  in 
their  dominions  and  led  to  a  corresponding  restriction  in 
the  signification  of  the  term  'Pothiyil'  also.  In  later  times, 
the  western  littoral  of  the  ancient  Chera  dominion  became 
Malayalam-speaking  and  fell  under  the  rule  of  numerous 
local  chieftains,  who  wrested  from  the  Pandyas  by  far  the 
greater  portion  of  the  Pothiyil  mountains  and  their  ad- 
joining regions.  The  Tamil  name  'Pothiyil'  consequent- 
ly fell  into  disuse  amongst  them.  The  Pandyas,  the  sole 
surviving  member  of  the  ancient  Tamil  monarchs,  then 
had  to  content  themselves  with  the  possession  of  the 
southernmost  peak  of  the  chain,  which  accordingly  came 
to  be  known  as  the  Pothigai.  Thus  Ptolemy's  map  and 
the  Chino-Japanese  maps  have  made  it  clear  that  the 
Pothiyil  of  the  ancient  Tamil  poets  about  the  early 
centuries  of  the  Christian  era  is  quite  different  from  the 
Pothigai  hill  of  the  present  day. 

The  following  three  lines  from    stanza    2    of  Pura- 
ndnuru, 

*'  ^li^  Luih^em  ir^rsjSL-  (offfl^S(^ 

only  go  to  confirm  the  interpretation  I  have  herein 
sought  to  give  to  the  term  '  Pothiyil. '      In  these  lines  th^ 


68  AGASTYA   IN  THE  TAMIL   LAND 

Poet  institutes  a  comparison  between  the  Himalayas  and 
the  Pothiyil  mountain.  The  Himalayas,  here,  surely  does 
not  refer  to  a  peak.  It  refers  to  the  whole  of  a  con- 
tinuous chain  of  mountains.  Naturally,  a  poet,  who  wants 
to  bring  in  another  mountain  for  comparison  with  this, 
is  not  likely  to  pitch  upon  a  solitary  peak  or  promontory 
in  a  chain  of  hills  in  Southern  India,  however  sacred  or 
otherwise  important  it  may  be.  He  must  be  taken  to  have 
had  before  his  mind  another  range  of  mountains  in  the 
south  which  would  stand  comparison  with  the  northern 
range.  Thus  early  literary  usage  also  makes  it  plain 
that  Pothiyil  refers  to  a  chain  of  mountains  and  not  to 
a  particular  peak  in  it,  as  it  came  to  signify  in  later  times. 

I  may  also  advert  in  this  connection  to   the  gram- 
matical difficulty  in  interpreting  *  Pothiyil '  as  a  common 
belt     of    mountainous   country     unappropriated    by    the 
three  Tamil    kings   of   those  days.      Though   the   term 
QufT^aSleo    like   SO   many  other  terms  in  Tamil  ending  in 
'@^  '  signifies  a  place  name,  the  phonetic  rules  of   later 
grammarians   state  that  Ou/r^+@«^)  could  become  only 
QuiT^eSeo   and   not  Quir^uSeo.     To  escape  this  dilemma 
Dr.   Caldwell   split   up    the    word  into   QuiT^,-\-^io  and 
interpreted  the  name  as  referring  to  a   place   of  conceal- 
ment.    Apart  from  the  fancied  necessity  of  concealment 
— from  whom  or  what  Dr.  Caldwell  himself  does  not  say 
— it  is  very  unlikely  that  a  metaphor  should  have  been  re- 
sorted to  for  naming  a  mountain  where  such  terms  as  u^esip 
uSio  or  ^effliiSlii)  would  have  answered  the  purpose  even  more 
suitably   and   with   absolute  directness.     The    difficulty 
which  seems  to  have  driven  Dr.  Caldwell  to  this  fanciful 
derivation,  however,  could  be  got  over  by  the  supposition 
that  the  term  itself  arose  at  a  very   ancient   period  when 
the   Tamil    speech    was    in    an  amorphous  condition  as 
every  spoken  dialect  should  be  expected  to  be  and  when 
the  Tamil  phonetic  rules  themselves   had    not   acquired 


APPENDIX  I  69 

that  regularity  and  rigidity  which  later  on  they  came  to 
assume  in  set  grammatical  treatises.  Even  these  later 
grammarians  had  to  show  deference  to  such  usage  as  is 
seen  in  QuiT,^uS&)y  QsrruSle^)^  etc.,  and  take  it  under  the  wn'ng 
of  what  they  are  pleased  to  call  ^eodaesaiuQurreSI  covering 
forms  of  words  which  in  their  opinion  though  not  strictly 
grammatical  are  yet  sanctioned  by  usage. 


APPENDIX    II. 

TESTIMONY  OF  SCHOLARS  RE  DRAVIDIAN 
CIVILISATION. 

After  giving  an  account  of  the  Aryan  colonization  of 
the  Maratha  country,  Dr.  Bhandarkar  writes  as  fol- 
lows : — 

"  But  farther  south  and  on  the  eastern  coast,  though 
they  penetrated  there  and  communicated  their  own  civili- 
zation to  the  aboriginal  races,  inhabiting  those  parts,  they 
were  not  able  to  incorporate  them  thoroughly  into  their 
own  society  and  to  root  out  their  languages  and  their 
civilization.  On  the  contrary,  the  Aryas  had  to  learn  the 
languages  peculiar  of  those  races  and  to  adopt  a  portion 
at  least  of  their  civilization.  Thus  the  Kanarese,  the 
Telugu,  and  the  Tamil  and  the  other  languages  now 
spoken  in  Southern  India  are  not  derived  from  the  Sans- 
krit but  belong  altogether  to  a  different  stock,  and  hence  it 
is  also  that  Southern  Art  is  so  different  from  the  Northern. 
The  reason  why  the  result  of  the  Aryan  irruption  was 
so  different  in  Southern  India  from  what  it  was  in  the 
North,  appears  to  be  that  when  the  Aryans  penetrated  to 
the  South  there  existed  already  well-organised  communi- 
ties and  kingdoms." — History  of  Deccan,  p.  10. 

James  Fergusson's  Study  of  Indian  Architecture 
contains  the  following  reference  about  the  Dravidian 
Architecture  : — 

"  Here  is  a  representation  of  a  temple,  at  Badami,  on 
the  limits  between  the  northern  and  southern  architectu- 
ral provinces.  Any  one  at  all  familiar  w^ith  the  subject 
will  at  once  recognise    the    difference    between  the  two. 


APPENDIX  II  71 

That  on  the  left  is  a  straight-lined  low  pyramid,  divided 
into  storeys,  and  adorned  with  pilasters,  that  on  the  right 
is  curvilinear,  with  no  trace  of  storeys  or  pilasters  and 
instead  of  the  domical  form  that  crowns  the  one  it  termi- 
nates in  a  conventional  fruit-like  ornament.  I  know  the 
people  who  erected  the  first  must  have  been  speaking 
Tamil  or  some  of  the  allied  languages  when  working 
upon  it  and  that  those  who  erected  the  other  were  speak- 
ing Bengalee  or  some  tongue  with  a  strong  infusion  of 
Sanskrit  in  its  composition"  (pp.  11-12). 

From  a  study  of  the  South  Indian  alphabets  and 
languages  Dr.  Burnell  comes  to  this  conclusion  : — 

"  The  development  of  the  early  stages  of  the  Grantha 
character  is  very  difficult  to  trace,  for  the  reason  that  the 
North  Indian  civilization,  when  it  got  far  down  in  the 
Peninsula  as  the  Tamil  country,  found  there  a  people 
already  in  possession  of  the  art  of  writing  and  apparently 
a  cultivated  language.  Thus  Sanskrit  does  not  regulate 
the  Tamil  Phonetic  system  nor  did  it  become  more  to  the 
people  than  a  foreign  learned  language." — Elements  of 
South  Indian  Palaeography, 

Prof.  E.  J.  Rapson  writes  thus  : — 

''This  extension  is  everywhere  marked  by  the  spread 
of  Sanskrit  and  its  dialects.  It  received  a  check  in 
Southern  India,  where  the  older  civilization  and  lan- 
guages remain  predominant  even  to  the  present  day." — 
Ancient  I idia,  p.  9. 

Apropos  of  the  Dravidian  race  inhabiting  South 
India,  Dr.  A.  C.  Haddon  writes  as  follows: — 

"  Apart  from  language,  there  is  a  general  culture 
which  is  characteristic  of  those  peoples  and  after  the 
elimination  of  the  pre-Dravidians  a  racial  type  emerges 
with  liner  features  than  those  of  the  aborigines  and  the 
conclusion  seems  evident  that  this  was  due  to  an    immi- 


72  AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

grant    people  who    reached  India  before   2000  B.  C." — 
The  Races  of  Man. 

In  his  Early  History  of  India,  Dr.  Vincent  A.  Smith 
writes  as  follows: — 

"The  ancient  kingdoms  of  the  far  south,  althou.^h 
rich  and  populous,  inhabited  by  Dravidian  nations  not 
inferior  in  culture  to  their  Aryan  rivals  in  the  north  were 
ordinarily  so  secluded  from  the  rest  of  the  civilized 
world  including  Northern  India,  that  their  affairs  re- 
mained hidden  from  the  eyes  of  other  nations;  and  native 
annaHsts  being  lacking,  their  history,  previous  to  the 
year  800  of  the  Christian  Era,  has  almost  wholly 
perished  "  (p.  7). 

Sir  Walter  Elliot  adds  the  following  testimony  :  — 

"  But  although  the  Dravidians  were  not  the  earliest 
settlers,  and  although  they  have  not  been  exempt  and 
that  in  no  small  degree,  from  external  influences,  it  is 
from  them  that  the  civilized  part  of  the  Dakkan  derives 
its  characteristic  features  in  language  and  institutions. 
Among  the  latter  may  especially  be  noticed  its  monetary 
system  and  the  coins  in  which  it  is  expressed." — Coins  of 
Southern  India  (p.  2). 


APPENDIX  III. 

THE  HYPOTHESIS  OF  MANY  AGASTYAS. 
While  writing  this  paper,  I  had  not  sufficiently  taken 
into  account  the  tendency  on  the  part  of  some  scholars 
to  make  capital  out  of  the  bare  possibility  that  more  than 
one  individual  of  the  same  name  might  have  existed  in 
the  past  as  at  present  and  played  their  role  in  the  history 
of  their  land.  But  after  going  through  a  recent  work, 
The  History  of  the  Tamils  by  Mr.  P.  T.  Srinivasa  Aiyan- 
gar,  M.A.,  Reader  in  Indian  History,  I  felt  that  1  should 
have  gone  into  the  question  at  some  length  and  offered 
detailed  criticism  on  this  favourite  device  often  resorted  to 
by  certain  Indian  scholars  for  simply  tiding  over  anachro- 
nisms, contradictions  and  irreconcilabilities  turning 
up  in  the  materials  they  happen  to  handle.  It  is,  how- 
ever, not  possible  to  compress  within  the  short  space 
of  an  appendix  the  various  considerations  which  should 
weigh  with  writers  towards  a  cautious,  not  to  say  extreme- 
ly limited,  use  of  this  hypothesis  of  plural  personages 
going  under  one  identical  name  in  pre-historic  times. 
Still,  I  shall  try  to  indicate  here  a  few  of  the  major 
grounds  which  will  show  how  risky  it  is  to  convert  an 
exceptional  method  into  one  of  general  application. 

Such  writers  as  resort  to  it  as  a  common  step  in 
their  researches  go  on  multiplying  historical  personalities, 
not  for  differentiating  between  separate  individuals,  admit- 
tedly historical,  but  with  the  sole  object  of  parrying  the 
arguments  of  the  other  side  formulated  against  the 
historicity  of  such  characters.  These  greet  them  from  the 
most  unlikely  quarters,  from  times,  places  and  circum- 
stances not  at  all  in  keeping  with  their  admitted 
A— 10 


74  AGASTYA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

antecedents.  So  far  as  these  characters  of  ancient  Indian 
history  are  concerned,  chronology  and  geography,  which 
form  together  the  iron  frame-work  of  history,  have  some- 
times been  twisted  out  of  all  recognition,  if  not  wholly 
splintered  and  thrown  together  into  an  indistinguishable 
dust-heap.  Two  facts,  to  begin  with,  must  give  us  food 
for  serious  reflection.  Few  will  dispute  that,  in  the  first 
place,  the  phenomenon  of  plural  personalities  appearing 
under  one  identical  name  seems  to  occur  frequently  more 
in  the  history  of  India  than  in  that  of  any  other  country 
in  the  world  and,  in  the  second  place,  more  in  the  history 
of  ancient  India  than  of  modern  India.  Why  should  this 
be  so  ?  The  explanation,  I  think,  lies  not  so  much  in  the 
peculiar  historical  accidents  of  India  as  in  certain  psycho- 
logical characteristics  of  its  people,  who  react  on  the 
traditional  materials  of  antiquity  in  a  manner  peculiar  to 
themselves.     It  is  very  necessary  to  bear  this  in  mind. 

As  a  basis  for  my  observations,  I  subjoin  here  a  few 
extracts  from  H.  H.  Wilson's  Essays  on  Sanskrit  Liiera- 
Uire,  Vol.  Ill  and  Mr.  P.  T.  Srinivasa  Aiyangar's  His- 
tory of  the  Tamils, 

Essays  on  Sanskrit  Liter ature^  Vol,  III, 
P.  175,     Re  more  than  one  Vararuchi  : 

"  That  the  name  of  Vararuchi  has  in  like  manner  been  applied  to 
different  individuals  might  fairly  be  inferred  from  the  practice  thus  described; 
but  we  have  in  this  case  a  remarkable  confirmation  of  our  conjecture  and 
find  from  the  varying  statements  of  several  writers,  that  two,  if  not  three 
persons  of  this  denomination  are  celebrated  in  the  literary  history  of  the 
Hindus." 

P.  189.     Re  more  than  one  Sankaracharya  : 

"  The  followers  of  Madhwacharya  in  Tuluva  seem  to  have  attempted 
to  reconcile  these  contradictory  accounts  by  supposing  him  to  have  been  born 
three  times  ;  first  at  Sivuli  in  Tuluva  about  1,500  years  ago,  again  in  Malabar 
some  centuries  later  and  finally  at  Padukachaytra  in  Tuluva  no  more  than 
600  years  since  ;  the  latter  assertion  being  intended  evidently  to  do  honour  to 
their  own  founder,  whose  date  that  was,  by  enabling  him  to  triumph  over 
Sankara  in  a  suppositious  controversy." 


APPENDIX  III  75 

History  of  the  Tamils, 
P.  30.     Re  more  than  one  Ravana  : 

"  Among  others  he  (Kartavirya)  defeated  a  Ravana,  king  of  Lanka 
and  imprisoned  him  in  Mahismati.  This  Ravana  was  certainly  not  the 
€nemy  of  Ramachandra  who  lived  at  least  five  hundred  years  later.  Hence, 
the  Ravana  who  was  imprisoned  by  Kartavirya  must  have  been  an  earlier 
Raja  of  that  name  or  perhaps  the  guess  of  Dr.  Sten  Know  is  true  that  the 
name  Ravana  was  but  the  result  of  the  Sanskritization  of  Tamil  '  Iraivan  ' 
and  merely  meant  a  Tamil  King." 

Take  along  with  this  the  foot-note: 

"  There  was  a' still  earlier  Ravana  who  fought  with  Anaranya,  king 
of  Ayodhya." 

P.  46.     Re  more  than  one  Vahniki  : 

"  Probably  this  Valmiki  of  the  VII  Century  B.C.  revised  the  Rama- 
yana  of  Valmiki  Pracetasa  in  classical  Sanskrit  and  worked  into  it  the  con- 
cept of  Rama's  being  an  incarnation  of  Visnu." 

P.  51.     Re  more  than  one  Hanuman  : 

"  Hanuman  himself  is  said  to  have  been  the  eighth  great  Sanskrit 
grammarian  but  this  perhaps  refers  to  a  much  later  Hanuman." 

P.  54.     Re  more  than  one  Agastya  : 

"  The  first  Agastya,  husband  of  Lopamudra,  a  princess  of  Vidarba, 
was  a  contemporary  of  Alarka,  king  of  Kasi,  who  lived  a  little  more  than 
20  generations  before  Rama.  Thus  the  earliest  Agastya  lived  in  the  region 
immediate  south  of  the  Vindhyas." 

;;;  ;;<  ;;c  :;<  ^i«  ;;c 

'*  But  the  Agastya  whom  Rama  met  two  yojanas  from  Panchavati 
could  not  have  been  the  first  Agastya,  who  lived  about  four  centuries  before 
Rama's  time,  but  must  have  been  one  of  the  later  Agastyas  ;  for  this  Agastya 
of  Rama's  day  lived  near  the  Godavari,  near  which  in  his  asrama,  Rama 
stayed  on  his  way  south." 

i^  ^  ■','  Hn  ^  ;;= 

After  referring  to  Agastya's  residence  on  the  top  of 
the  Malaya  Hill  (Coorg)  the  author  writes: 

"  Hence  this  must  have  been  inserted  by  a  later  poet  who  lived  after 
the  Agastyas  had  proceeded  further  south  than  the  Agastya  of  Rama's 
time  and  settled  in  the  Tamil  country." 

'\--  >;■-  *  *  :::  'i= 

"  In  the  Epic  as  in  the  Puranas,  all  the  Agastyas  are  spoken  of  as  one 
Agastya  Rsi,  though  different  Agastyas  resided  in  different  places  at  different 
times." 


76  AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

These  extracts  are  enough  to  convince  the  reader  of 
the  existence  of  pecuHar  difticiilties  besetting  the  path  of 
a  historian  of  ancient  Indian  Literature  and  traditions.  ItV 
from  the  shores  of  such  Hteralure  and  traditions,  spectral 
forms  of  numerous  Valmikis,  Hanumans,  Ravanas  and 
Agastyas  are  thus  found  to  accost  the  historian,  surely  he 
is  apt  to  lose  his  bearings  in  the  wide  expanse  of  ancient 
Indian  history  unless  he  takes  special  care  to  keep  a  strict 
critical  watch  over  this  brood  and  banish  such  of  them 
from  his  ken  as  are  mere  will-o-the- wisps. 

Making  the  fullest  allowance  for  the  possibility  and 
even  probability  of  two  or  more  historical  personages 
going  under  one  proper  name,  the  question  before  the 
historian,  especially  ancient  historian,  is  to  see  whether, 
even  after  a  rigorous  critical  examination,  there  exist  facts 
which  would  warrant  his  assuming  for  the  explanation  a- 
different  personality  with  an  identical  proper  name,  and 
not  to  rush  at  once  to  this  handy  expedient  of  multiplying 
personalities.  We  have  seen  how  Agastya  has  come  to 
figure  in  the  ancient  history  of  many  countries  in  southern 
Asia  and  in  many  different  centuries.  Are  we  then  to 
assume  the  existence  of  a  separate  Agastya  for  each  country 
and  also  for  each  century  in  each  country?  This  procedure 
does  not  seem  to  take  into  account  the  well-known  fact 
that  many  characters  have  been  created  by  poetic  imagina- 
tion or  by  mythic  fancy  or  by  religious  megalomania. 
Are  we  to  give  to  these  spurious  births  a  '  local  habitation 
and  a  name'  by  admitting  them  into  the  gallery  of  his- 
toric personages  ?  Turning  to  historical  characters  them- 
selves, is  it  not  a  fact  that  later  traditionalists  have  shifted 
some  of  these  from  their  strict  historical  setting  and  made 
them  play  many  different  parts,  in  different  places,  and  at 
different  times  ?  An  impulse  to  blind  hero-worship  it  is 
that  furnishes  the  ground  for  so  wrenching  a  character 
from  its  proper  historical  milieu  and  introducing  it  amidst 


APPENDIX  III  77 

new  surroundings  and  conditions.       Are  we,  here  olso,  to 
resort  to  multiplying  the   original   character  as  occasion 
requires  ?     Then  again,  those  who  resort   to   this   device 
exhibit  an  amazing  credulity  in  the  acceptance  of  even 
fictions  as  facts.     No  doubt,  the  common    man  is    credu- 
lous by  nature  and  acts    on   the    principle   that   unless  a 
statement  is  proved  false  it  must  be  accepted  as  true.     But 
that  can  hardly  be  the  scientific  frame  of  mind.   Unless  and 
until  a  proposition  is  proved  true  it  has  no  credentials  for 
acceptance.     If  the  strength  of  history  lies  in  its  critically- 
tested  and  carefully-ascertained  facts,   is  not  the  historian 
under  the  necessity  of  rigorously  testing  his    facts   before 
he  tries  to  raise  any  theoretic  structure  on  them  or   seeks 
to  explain  them.     For   instance,   while    the   existence    of 
Ravana  himself    as  a   historical   character  is   not   above 
doubt,  what  conceivable  purpose  can  it  serve  to  create  two 
or  three  Ravanas  ?   Whi'e  all  the  recensions  of  the  existing 
Ramayana   text    is    in  classical   Sanskrit,    why  should  a 
Ramayana  in  Vedic  Sanskrit  be  hypostasized  and  another 
Valmiki  created  to  become  the  author  of  that  hypothetical 
Ramayana  ?  Along  with  this    exhibition  of  ^  primitive  cre- 
dulity '  on  the  part  of  some  investigators  there  is  also  a 
tendency  to    exhibit   undue    veneration    towards   ancient 
tradition  and  literature  and  to  expect  from  them  more  than 
what  the  life  and  characteristics  of  the  possessors  of  such 
tradition  and  literature  would  warrant  us  to  expect.     If  in 
actual  life  we  come  across  impostors  and  other  unscrupulous 
characters,  why  could  they  not  intrude  now  and  then  into 
the  world  of  letters  also  ?  Are  there  not  instances  of  deli- 
berate forgeries   committed  in  the  name   of  well-known 
authors  in  the  literary  history  of  every  country  and  at  all 
times  ?  Simply  because  a    statement    gets  embodied  in  a 
literary  work,  does  it  become  sacrosanct  on  that  account  ? 
Should  the  critical  method  relax  its  rigour  and  go  to  sleep 
when  that  statement  hails  us  from  antiquity?  On  the  other 
hand,   the  more  an  investigator  recedes  into  the  past  the 


78  AGASTVA    IN   THE   TAMIL   LANE 

greater    should     be    his     care     and    circumspection     in 
satisfying  himself  whether  every  fact  rings  true  or  not.    If 
once  that  attitude  is  relaxed,  history  is  likely  to  become 
more    a    fairy   tale  than  a    strictly    scientific  record    of 
carefully-tested  facts.  Still,  it  may  be  urged  that  there  are 
cases   where  the    assumption    of  more  than  one  historic 
character  going  under  one  identical    name  seems  to  be 
necessary.     Such  an  assumption,  however,  can  be  resort- 
ed to  only    in  cases    where    strict    historical  conditions 
vouch  for  it.     The  creation  of  a  dozen  Agastyas  to  answer 
all  the  differences   brought  about  by  historic  conditions 
and  then  to  formulate   the  existence  of  a  family  of  Agast- 
yas to  which  all   of  them    are  to    be    traced    is    scarcely 
a  justifiable  procedure.     In  fact,  this  delectable  method  of 
creating  a  number  of  Agastyas,    Ravanas  and  Hanumans 
and  of  an    equal    number  of  families  to  go    under    such 
generic  proper  names  is  too   vague    and    indefinite   for 
practical  application.  What  does  this  family  name  connote 
in  India  ?     Does  it  cover  only  a  simple  family  (gens),  or 
a   group    (phratry)    composed    of  many   families,    or    a 
whole  tribe  composed  of  such  groups  ?     If  gotra  names, 
such  as  Atri,  Bharadvaja,  be  considered  as  family   names, 
millions  of   the  present-day  Aryans  could  be  distributed 
under  a  few  g5tras   and  be  considered  as   the  Atris   and 
Bharadvajas  of  this  centur3\    But  this  would  hardly  s^rve 
the  purpose  of  any  clear  identification  of  the  individuals 
concerned.    Thus  the  gotra  name  will  in  no  way  serve  our 
purpose  and  need  not  be  resorted  to  as  signifying  a  definite 
individual  in  any  period  of  our   history  except  the   first 
founder  of  a  particular  gotra.   Is  it  not  a  little  disconcert- 
ing that  proper  names  intended  to  identify  definite  indi- 
viduals should  thus  be   converted  into   indefinite  generic 
names  for  uncontrolled  and    even  whimsical  application  ? 

In  this  connection,  the  attention  of  these  scholars  may 
be  drawn   to  a   very   wholesome   principle   of   scientific 


APPENDIX  III  79 

procedure  called  *'  the  Occam's  Razor."  Where  one 
hypothesis  is  sufficient  to  explain  adequately  a  number  of 
observed  facts,  it  is  a  vicious  scientific  procedure  to  for- 
mulate more  than  one  hypothesis  for  the  sarne  purpose. 
Applying  this  principle  to  the  phenomenon  of  many 
Agastyas  appearing  in  the  history  of  different  countries 
and  at  different  times,  are  we  to  go  on  assuming  the 
existence  of  separate  Agastyas  for  each  country  and  for 
each  century  ?  Or  are  we  to  ascribe  the  whole  pheno- 
menon to  a  common  psychological  characteristic  of 
the  races  concerned — the  strong  tendency  to  hero- 
worship  ingrained  in  them  ?  It  is  very  likely  that  the 
first  Agastya  was  a  historic  character  but  the  sub- 
sequent Agastyas  were  all  the  result  of  popular  imagina- 
tion catching  hold  of  an  ancient  hero  and  spinning 
round  him  all  sorts  of  stories.  Where  such  a  solitary 
hypothesis  as  this  is  sufficient  to  account  for  all  the 
facts  of  the  case,  is  it  not  a  violation  of  legitimate  scientific 
procedure  to  go  on  creating  Agastyas  ad  libifum  to  suit 
the  multiplicity  of  historical  circumstances  turning  up  ? 
If  anywhere,  here  it  is  that  the  necessary  pruning,  insisted 
upon  by  the  old  Logician,  should  be  effected. 

The  following  observations  of  Mr.  Bhagabat  Kumar 
Goswami  made  in  the  introduction  (pp.  xxxii-xxxiii) 
of  his  work,  the  Bhakti  Cult  in  Ancient  India,  will,  I 
think,  be  of  interest  as  bearing  upon  the  pruning  he 
attempts  to  do  in  the  case  of  Vyasa  : — 

"  Whenever  a  new  system  of  thought  arose  in  Hindustan,  it  was  not 
only  sought  to  be  based  upon  some  teaching  of  the  Vedas  but  the  name  of 
Vyasa  was  generally  sought  to  be  connected  with  the  department  of  thought 
some  way  or  other  while  the  names  of  the  Vedic  seers  themselves  were  uti- 
lised for  similar  purposes  wherever  necessary  and  possible.  This  was  specially 
the  case  after  the  Buddhistic  onslaught  on  Vedicism.  Vyasa  then  figured  as 
a  writer  of  philosophical  commentary  Vogabhasya,  an  author  of  a  philoso- 
phical system,  Brahma  Sutra,  an  author  of  a  Smrti  system,  Vyasa  Smrti,  a 
writer  on  polity,  a  writer  on  Astrology.  He  was  again  claimed  as  the  author 
of  all  the  Puranas  and  to   crown  all,  the  author  of  the   whole  of  the  greatest 


80  AGASTYA   IN   THE   TAMIL   LAND 

Epic  Mahabharata.  When  not  the  original  author,  he  was  often  traditionally 
claimed  as  connected  some  way  or  other  with  the  authors  of  the  other  sys- 
tems, who  themselves  in  most  cases  bore  the  sacred  names  of  or  claimed 
some  affinities  with  the  old  Vedic  seers.  To  seek  therefore  to  fix  a  historic 
age  from  some  alleged  connection  of  the  name  of  Vyasa  or  a  Vedic  seer  is  to 
court  disaster.  We  must  leave  Veda  Vyasa  at  about  3,100  B.C.  and  allow 
other  Vyasas  to  take  care  of  themselves." 

To  the  Vasisthas,  who  figure  as  numerously  as  the 
Vyasas,  Mr.  F.  E.  Pargiter  feels  justified  in  giving  a 
different  treatment.  Being  committed  to  the  position  of 
finding  greater  authenticity  in  the  Ksatria  tradition  than  in 
the  Brahman,  he  is  forced  to  conckide  that  the  later  Vasis- 
thas  were  as  historical  as  the  kings  with  whom  they  lived. 
He  is  not  disposed  to  apply  the  pruning  knife  to  the 
requisite  extent  and  grapples  with  the  Puranic  traditions 
to  extract  from  them  some  genealogical  facts  for  the 
construction  of  history.  How  in  this  heroic  attempt  he 
^ets  hopelessly  entangled  in  the  legendary  quagmire  will 
be  seen  if  one  tries  to  follow  the  identifications  and 
"discriminations  of  the  many  Vasisthas  he  makes  in 
pp.  203-211  of  his  work  Ancient  Indian  Historical  Tra- 
dition. He  dismisses  the  first  two  Vasisthas  (the  mind- 
born  son  of  Brahma  and  one,  the  contemporary  of 
Ikshuwaku)  as  mythical,  and  considers  the  later  Vasisthas 
as  historical.  But  when  we  find  these  later  Vasisthas 
described  as  having  most  of  the  characteristics  attendant 
on  their  mythical  prototype,  we  have  to  doubt  the  validity 
•of  the  procedure,  adopted  by  Mr.  F.  E.  Pargiter  in  the 
valuation  of  the  testimony  of  the  Puranic  annalists — 
accepting  it  as  trustworthy  in  one  portion  and  rejecting 
it  as  entirely  worthless  in  another.  How,  for  instance, 
could  each  one  of  the  fourth,  the  fifth  and  the  seventh 
Vasisthas  possess  Arundhati  as  his  wife,  the  Arundhati, 
Ihe  companion  of  their  mythical  progenitor  ?  Much  the 
safer  rule  in  such  cases  would  have  been  to  accept  all  or 
none.  Nothing  in  these  regions  will  enable  us  to 
-distinguish  between  Tweedledum  and  Tweedledee.       It  is 


APPENDIX  lit  51 

true  that  by  arranging  the  goodly  company  of   Vasisthas 
as  Vasistha   I,   Vasistha     II,    etc.,     in     an   arithmetical 
series,  some  sort  of  order  is  introduced  into  chaos;  but 
how  can  one  be  sure  that  it  is  an  order  of  a   real    series 
and  not  an  imaginary  one  ?    To  say  that  these  have  been 
referred  to  by  their  gotra  names   merely  is  to  clutch  at  a 
straw,  or  even  worse,   a  shadow.     The   works  in   which 
these  traditions  are  embodied   must   be  taken   either  as 
contemporary  records  or  later  compilations.     If  contem- 
porary,  the   authors   should    naturally    be    expected    to 
distinguish  the  character  they  write  about  by  giving  the 
personal    name   and   other    biographical    details   which 
could  distinguish  their  character  from  others  of  the  same 
gotra.     At  any  period  of  time  the  Puranas  treat  of,  there 
should  have  been  living  a  very  large  number  of  Vasisthas 
claiming  their  descent  from  one  of  the  seven  progenitors 
of  the  race.     Would  any  contemporary  writer  leave  the 
character  he  seeks  to  glorify  in  the  haze  and  uncertainty 
of  a  generic   name  ?     If,  on   the  other  hand,  the  works 
are  considered  as  later  compositions,  as  presumably  they 
are  in  spite  of  their  prophetic  manner,  the  authenticity  of 
their  statements   so   far  as   personal   identifications   are 
concerned  gets  more  and  more  attenuated   and    loses   in 
value  as  we  recede  from  the  times  treated  of.     Hence,  a 
Vasistha  going  under  a  gotra  name,  unless  he  is  rendered 
distinct  by  authentic  details  of  a  personal    or  historical 
character,  is  little  better  than  a  figment  of  the   writer's 
imagination   conjured   out   of   the  name  of  a  legendary 
hero  or  the  idol  of  a  literary  coterie. 

Granting,  however,  the  legitimacy  of  the  method — 
the  assumption  of  a  gotra  name  to  explain  away  a  number 
of  characters  under  one  denomination  coming  to  us  from 
the  distant  past — the  question  will  naturally  arise  how 
this  method  will  help  us  in  solving  such  a  problem. as  the 
four  or  five  Auvais  appearing  in  different  periods  of  Tamil 


S2  AGASTVA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 

Literature.  To  what  gotra  did  the  original  Auvai,  the 
Tamil  Poetess,  belong  ?  Or  should  we  resort  to  some 
other  method  to  save  the  historicity  of  all  the  Auvais 
figuring  in  Tamil  literary  history  ?  The  truth  of  the 
matter  is  that  Mr.  Pargiter's  tenderness  towards  traditions 
as  a  whole  has,  I  fear,  made  him  a  little  too  prone  to 
ascribe  objective  reality  even  to  subjective  creations.  He 
seems  to  have  wholly  expunged  the  subjective  factor  as 
an  agent  in  the  creation  of  personalities  and  perhaps  may 
have  thought  that  novelists  are  all  of  modern  growth,  the 
old  world  having  none  to  show.  However,  the  more  we 
push  our  way  into  antiquity,  the  more  are  we  brought 
into  contact  with  an  imagination  of  an  unbridled 
type.  Reason  seems  to  have  been  a  slow  growth  of  mil- 
lenniums of  tardily  accumulated  experience  and  painful 
labour.  As  against  this,  it  was  all  easy  for  imagination  to 
go  to  work.  Hence  it  is  that  imagination  got  a  start 
over  slow-developing  Reason,  the  results  of  which 
are  visible  even  to  this  day.  Few  will  doubt  the  abstract 
probability  of  traditions  containing  truths,  but,  when  a 
large  masses  of  them  are  thrown  into  the  melting-pot  of  a 
poet's  imagination  or  overwrought  religious  feeling  or 
sectarian  prejudice,  to  expect  reality  or  truth  to  emerge 
therefrom  unscathed  is  to  expect  the  impossible. 


APPENDIX  IV. 

WORKS  CONSULTED. 

English. 

1.  Prof.  MaxMul lei's  History   of  Ancient  Sanscrit 
Literature, 

2.  Dr.  Washburn  Hopkins'  The  Great  Epic  of  India. 

3.  Dr.  Bhandarkar's  Early  History  of  Deccan. 

4.  The  Periplus  of  the  Eryihrcean  Sea  (McCrindle's 
translation). 

5.  Prof.  A.  A.  Macdonell's  History  of  Sanskrit  Lite- 
raiure, 

6.  Prof.  Ihering's  The  Evolution  of  the  Aryans. 

7.  Ptolemy's  Geography  of  India  and  Southern  Asia 
(McCrindle's  translation). 

8.  Tra  van  core  State  Manual. 

9.  Mr.  F.  E.  Pargiter's    Ancient  Indian    Historical 
Tradition. 

10.  Dr.  Caldwell's    Comparative    Grammar    of  the 
Dravidian  Languages, 

11.  Prof.  Seshagiri    Sastri's  Essay  on  Tamil  Literal 
ture. 

12.  Dr.  BurneU's  Elements  of  South   Indian  Palceo- 
graphy, 

13.  Prof.  K.  ].  K'AT^son'^  Ancient  India. 

14.  Mr.    L.    W.    King's    Babylonian    Religion    and 
Mythology. 

15.  Dr.  Vincent  A.  Smith's  Early  History  of  India. 

16.  Prof.  William  McDougall's  Gro«^  A/iW. 

17.  Goethe's  'Literar^'    Essays'  (Spingarn's  transla- 
tion). 

18.  Dr.  A.  C.  Haddon's  The  Races  of  Man. 

19.  The  Epigraphia  Carnaiica,  Vol.  II. 

20.  The  Journal  of  the  Mythic  Society,  Vol.  XVIII. 

21.  The  Catalogue  of  the  Oriental  Manuscripts  Lib- 
rary, Egmore,  Madras. 


84  AGASTYA  IN  THE  TAMIL  LAND 


22, 
istovv. 

Dr.  S.  K.  Aiyangar's  Beginnings  of  South  Indian 

kJifWi  y » 

Tamil. 

L 

Paripatal. 

2, 

Paituppattu. 

3, 

PurandnUrn, 

4. 

Narrinai. 

5. 

Tolkdppiyam. 

6. 

Ilakkanakkotiu. 

7. 

Virasoliyam. 

8. 

TiruvdymolJ. 

9. 

Tevdram. 

10, 

Agandnuru. 

11. 

Jivakachinidtnani. 

12. 

Chilappatikdram. 

13. 

Pannirtipatalam. 

14. 

Purapporulvenbdmdlai. 

15. 

Agapporul  Vilakkam. 

16. 

Divdkaratn, 

17. 

Tiruvilaydtal  Purdnam, 

18. 

Kdnchi  Purdnam. 

19. 

Sikdlattipurdnam. 

20. 

Tdndavardyasivdmi's  Works. 

21. 

Perakaltiyattirattu    {Rao    Saheb  Bhavanandam 

Pillai's  Edition). 

22. 

Kaniappurdnam. 

23. 

Kdcikdntam. 

24. 

Tiriikurrdlattalappurdnam. 

25. 

Tirtivenkatattalappurdnam. 

26. 

Tirunelvelittalappurdnam. 

27. 

Kudantaippurdnam. 

28. 

May  ila  ippu  rdna  m . 

29. 

V  etdranyapurdnam. 

30. 

The  Chcntamil,  Vol.  XIX. 

INDEX. 


Aayi  (Aioi),  66,  67 
Academy  (First  Tamil),  6,  30 
Agafianuru,  30,  65,  84 
Agapporulvilakkatn,  47,  84 
Agastisvaram,  50,  51 
Agastiyam  (Akattiyam),  3,  45 
Agastyarkiitam,  65 
Agastyas,  73,  75,  76,  78,  79 
Agastyasrama,  5 
Ahattiyar,  38 
Aindhra    School   of    Sanskrit 

Grammarians,  35 
Aitareya  Brahmana^  10,  11 
Akatti,  4 
Alarka,  IS 
Alchemy,  38 
Alexander  the  Great,  57 
Alatturkilar,  31 
Alvars,  26 
Amirthaveluttu,  41 
Anaranya,  75 
Ancient  India,  44,  71,  83 
Ancient      Ifidian       Historical 

Traditiojh  30,  43,  80,  83 
Andhras,  10,  11,  28,30 
Angada,  33 
Anthropologists,  9 
Aranyaka^  11 
Archaeologists,  9 
Aruvalars,  28,  30 
Arundhati,  80 
Aryan,  12,  14,  18,  19,  28,   29, 

58,  70,  72,  78 
Aryanisation,  7 
Aryavarta,  2,  10 


Astrology,  79 
Atiyarkkunallar,  46 
Atri,  7d, 

Atankottasan,  35,  36 
Auvais,'81,  82 
Avinayan,  35 
Avanti,  11 

Avur  Mulamikilar,  22 
Ayikkudi,  67 
Ayodhya,  75 

B 

Babylo7iian  Religion  and 
Mythology,  36,  83 

Badami,  3,  5,  55,  60,  70 

Bhadrabahu,  22 

Bhadresvara,  53 

Barhinadvipa,  6 

Beginnings  of  South  Indian 
History,  65,  84 

Benares,  3 

Bengalee,  71 

Berars,  12 

Bergaine,  53,  55 

Bettigo,  15,65,  83 

Bhagabat  Kumar  Goswami,  79 

Bhakti  Cult  in  Ancient  India, 
79 

Bhandarkar,  Dr.  R.  G  ,  11,  70, 
83 

Bharadwaja,  1,  78 

Bhattaraka,  53 

Bhavanandam  Pillai,  Rao  Baha- 
dur, 41 

Bhrgu,  1 

Borneo.  6 


86 


INDEX 


Brahma,  11 

Brahmans,  23 

Brahman  Culture,  15,  65,  .S3 

Brahman  Tradition,  80 

Brahma  Sutra,  79 

Buddhist,  22,  23,  24,  26,  79 

Burnell,  Dr.,  43,  71,  83 

C 

Caldwell,  Dr.  34,  65,  68,  83 

Calukya,  55 

Cambodia,  6,  53,  55,  56,  59,  63 

Canopus,  1,  17 

Cape  Comorin,  50,  59 

Carnatic  Wars,  54 

Catalogue    of     the     Oriental 

Manuscripts  Library,  38,  ^3 
Chandra  Gupta,  22 
Chemputchey,  35 
Chentamil,  15,  84 
Chera,  23,  66,  67 
Chilappadikaram.  46,  84 
Chinese  Travellers,  13 
Chino-Japanese  map,  66,  67 
Chola,  14,  22,  23,  66 
Coifis  of  South  Lidia,  72 
Comparative  Grammar   of  the 

Dravidiaii  Languages^  83 
Coorg,  75 
Cunningham,  66 

D 

Daksha,  1 

Dakshinakasi,  3,  5 

Dakshinapatha,  7,  57 

Dandakaranya,  13,  bl ,  59,  60 

Dasyus,  10  j 

Dekkhan,  15,  72 

Dimyrike,  65 

Divakaram,  47,  84 

Dravidas,  11 

Dravidians,  18,  19,  20,  70,  72 

Dwarasamudram,  29,  30 

E 

Early  History  of  Decca?i,    1 2, 
83 


Early   History  of  India,   45, 
72,  83 

Elements    of     South     Indian 

Palaeography,  44,  83 
EUiot,  Sir  Walter,  72 
Eluttu,  40 

Enisseri  Mudamosiyar,  18 
Eptgraphia  Carnatica,  22,  83 
Essay  on  Sanskrit  literature, 
74 

Essay  on  Tamil  literature,  83 
Ettutokai,  16 

Evolution  of  the  Aryans,  The, 
20,  83 


Gange,  13 

Ganges,  3,  10,  13,  14 
Gangoly,  52,  55,  57,  83 
Geography  of  Ancietit  India,  66 
Geography       of     India      and 

Southern  Asia,  83 
Geologists,  53 
Ghatodbhava,  2 
Ghrataci,  5 

Godavari,  11,  29,  30,  75 
Goethe's  Literary  Essays,   58, 

83 
Gotama,  1 
Gotra,  78,  81 

Grammar  (Tamil,  First),  6,  42 
Grantha  character,  71 
Great  Epic  of  India,    11,  34, 

%3 

Greek  Writers,  43 
Group  Mind,  50,  5^,  83 
Guzarat,  56 

H 

Haddon,  A.C.,  71 
Hai-an-men,  66 
Hanuman,  33,  75,  76,  78 
Himalaya,  3,  14,54,  68 
Hindustan,   14,  79 
History  of  Ancient    Sanskri 
Literature,  10,  83 


INDEX 


S7 


History  of  Veccan,  70,  83 
History   of  Sanskrit    Litera- 
ture, 14,  83 
History  of  the  Tamil Sy  Ti,  74 
Hopkins,  Dr.  Washburn,  34 

I 

Icai,  45 

Ihering,  Prof.,  20,  ^?> 

Ikshuvaku,  80 

Ilakkanakottu,  41,  84 

Ilvala,  6 

Indonesian  Islands,   6,  24,  ^^, 

59,  62 
Indra,  5 
Indus,  13,  14 
lyal,  45 

J 
Jain,  22,  23,  24,  26,  43,  44,  45 
Jai  Singh,  ^'h 
Jamadagni,  1,  43 
James  Fergusson,  70,  ^Z 
Java,  52 

Jivakachintamani,  46,  84 
Journal  of  the  Mythic  Society^ 

52,  55,  56,  bl,  %Z 

K 

Kacca,  1 

Kakkaipatiniyan,  35 
Kalinga,  11 
Kalarambhan,  35 
Kalasaja,  2 
Kalasisuta,  2 
Kant  a  pur  aria  m,  48 
Karikilar,  31 
Kartavirya,  lb 
Kasi  Kdndam,  3,  48 
Kasyapa,  1 
Katha,  1 1 
Ka^ta  Bommu,  54 
Kavera  (King),  3 
Kaveri,  3,  29,  33 
Kerala,  29,  30 
Khan  Saheb,  SZ 
Kijars,  24 


King,  L.  W.,  36,  ^2> 
Kirtiraja,  56 
Kishkindha,  33 
Kosala,  11 
Kottayam,  66 
Krauncha,  5 
Krishna,  29,  30 
Krishnaswamy   Aiyangar.   Dr. 

S.,  65,  66 
Krta  Age,  43 
Ksatriya,  80 

Lanka,  75 
Lata,  50 

Lexicography,  42 
Logan,  29 
Lopamudra,  3,  5,  12,  75 

M 
Macdonnell,  Prof.  1 4,  5^,  d^S 
Madhwacharya,  74 
Madiyanandai,  5 
Madura,  29,  65,  67 
Maduraika?ici,   16 
Maduraiveeran,  SZ 
Magour,  66 
Mahabharata,  1 2,  80 
Mahamalaya  Hills,  6,  56 
Maharashtra,  13,  2%,  29,  30 
Mahendra  Hills,  30 
Mahismati,  75 
Malabar,  29,  74 
Malaku^a,  5,  30,  Sb,  60 
Malaya,  3,  6,  Zb,  Sb,  56,  lb 
Malayadvipa,  6,  55 
Malayakiita,  66 
Malayalam,  67 
Malayam,  55,  65,  66,  67 
Malay  Islands,  52 
McDougall,  VV.,  50,  b%,  83 
Mamulanar,  65,  66 
Manimanda,  5 
Maratha,  70 
Mauryas,  65' 

Max  Mullen  Prof.,  10,  83--  -' 
Megasthenes,  4,  13 


^8 


INDEX 


Melkynda,  66 

Meykandatevar,  52 

Mitra,  *2* 

Mokor,  66 

Monier  Williams,  Sir,  53 

Muruga,  5,  16 

Muthu  Bhattan,  53 

Mutibas,  10* 

'  Mutukadavul,'  16 

Mysore,  22,  29 

N 

Nachinarkkiniyar,   16,  17,  34, 

46 
Nahusa,  5 
Nancheluttu,  41 
Nanmarai,  32 
Narayanaswamy  Aiyar,    R.  S., 

B.A.,  B.L.,  15 
N  armada,  11,  29 
Narrinai,  1 6,  84 
Nasik,*5,  6,  13,  33 
Nayanmars,  26,  51 
Nelkynda,  66 
Nettimaiyar,  31 
Niranam,  66 
Nirkunram,  66 
Noachian  Deluge,  30 

0 

Occam's  Razor,  79 
Orissa,  10,  30 
Ourvasiya,  2 

P 

Padukachaytra,  74 
Panamparanar,  35,  36 
Pancava^i,  5,  13,  33,  75 
Pandya,  14,  16,  22,  23,  29,  SS, 

56,  59,  66,  67 
Pandya  country,  6 
Panini,  11,  42 
Pajinirupadalam,  47,  84 
Parasurama,  29,  30  43 
Pargiter,  F.  E.,  30,  43,  80,  81, 

83 


Paripadaly  15,  16,  17,  84 
Pariyatra,  10 
Patale,  13 
Pataliputra,  13 
Patanjali,  14 
PatUippditu,  15,  30,  84 
PlrakattiyattiraUu,  41 
Periplus    of    the    Erythraean 

Sea,  13,66,  84 
Podalaga,  21 
Pothigai,  15,  65,  67 
Pothuvar,  66,  67 
Pothiyil,   3,6,  15,   16,  17,    18, 

21,  22.  30.  33,  55,  60,  61, 

65,  66,  67,  68 
Pracetasa,  73 
Prajapatis,  1 

Ptolemy,  15,  65,  66,  67,  84 
Pulindas,  10 
Pundras,  10 
Punjab,  10,  14 
Purandnuru,  47,  84 
Puranas,  fl,   25,  29.   43,   48. 

50,*  75,  79,  81 
P urapporulvenbdmdlai ,  47,  84 

R 

Races  of  Man,  72,  83 

Rama,  5,  33,  75 

Ramayana,  12,  13,  33,  61,  62, 

15,  li 
Rapson,  E.  J.,  71,  83 
Ravana,  16,  17,  33,  75,  76,77, 

78' 
Rg  Veda,  1,  3,  11,  19 
Romans,  20 
Rome,  16 
Romulus,  61 
Rsi,  43, 15 

s 

Sabaras,  10 

Saivism,  51,  52 

Sakhas,  11 

Sangam,  15,  17,  18,  37,  65 

Sankaracharya,  74 


INDEX 


89 


Sa?iskrit      Inscriptions     of 

Champa,  53,  55 
Sapta  Rishis,  2 
Satpura,  55 

Seshagiri  Sastri,  Prof.,  37,  83 
Shakespeare,  49 
Shencotta,  47 
Sherlock  Hohnes,  49 
ShivaUngam,  53,  55 
Siam,  6,  55,  56,  59 
Siddhars,  38 
Sikandi,  35 
Sikdlattipuj  anam,  84 
Sinnamanur  plate,  50 
Sita,  33 

Siva,  3,  5,  52,  54 
Sivaguru,  52,  5d) 
Sivagurumurttam,  52 
Sivuli,  74 
Smrti,  79 
Soretai,  66 
Spingairn,  58,  83 
Sramans,  22 
Sravana  Belgola   Inscriptions, 

22 
Sri  Bhadreswara,  53,  55 
Srinivasa  Iyengar,  P.T.,  73,  74 
Sten  Know,  Dr.,  78 
Study  of  Indian   Architecture, 

70 
Sugriva,  33 
Sumatra,  55 
Sunda,  5,  16 
Sun-God,  5 

Sundaram  Pillai,  Prof.  P.  37 
Sundara  Pandya,  56 
Swaminatha  Iyer,    Mahopadh- 

yaya,  65 

T 

Taittiri,  10_ 

Taittiriya  Aranyaka,  10,  11 
Taittiriya  BrahmaDa,  10 
Taittiriya  Veda,  1 1 
Tamappalkannanar,  31 
Tamil  Academy,  6 


Tamil  Grammar,  6 
Tamilagam,  18,  22,  23,  28,  34, 

62,  65,  66 
Tamraparni,  3 

Tandavarayaswami's  Works,84 
Tatika,  5 
Ten  Idylls,  16 
Tlvaram,  52,  84 
Thennavan,  16 
Theodore  Merz,  58 
Tinnevelly,  54,67 
Tirukurralattalappur^nam, 

48,  84" 
Tirumurugdrruppadai,  1 6,  84 
Tirufianasambhandan,  45,  84 
Tirunavukkarasu  45 
Tirunelvelittalappurdnam,  48, 

84 

Tiruvaymoli,  84 
Tiruvl7ikatattalappuranam,  84 
Tiruvtlaydtalpuranam,  84 
Tolkappiyam,   34,  '35,  42,  43, 

44,  45,  84 
Tolkappiyar,  3,  5,  34,   35,  43, 

45 
Travancore,  66,  67 
Travaftcore  State  Manual,  29, 

84 
Trinadhumakkini,  35,  43 
Trisiila,  52 
Turalinkan,  35 
Tulu,  29 
Tuluva,  74 
Tuvarapati,  28,  30 

u 

Umai  Durai,  54 
Upanisads,  19 
Urvasi,  2 
Utkala,  10 

V 

Vaidurya,  Mt.  55 
Vaiyappikan,  35 
Valmiki,  33,75,  76,  77 
Vamanan,  35 


90 


INDEX 


Varahadvipa,  6 

Vararuchi,  74 

Varkala,  29 

Vartika,  14 

Varuna,  2 

Vasishta,  1,  2,  80 

Vasi^shtas,  80,  81 

Vatapi,  6 

Vatapipura,  5 

Vayppiyan,  35 

Vedas,  26 

Vedic  Age,  14 

Vedic  Brahmanas,  29 

VSlirs,  24,  28,  30 

Venkayya,  21 

Vidarbha,  3,  5,  12,  13,75 

Vilvala,  6 

Vincent  A.  Smith,  Dr.,  44, 

78,83 
Vindhya,  Mt.,   4,   11,    12, 

55,  59,  75 


64, 
13. 


Virasoliyam,  21,  84 
Visakacarya,  22 
Vishnu,  75 

Visnu  Pur  ana,  1 
Vogel,  Dr.,  52 
Vyasa,  79 

w 

West  Coast,  30 
Western  Ghats,  6,  17,  65 
William  McDougall,  83 
Wilson,  H.  H.,  15 


Yama,  16 
Yasomati,  6 
YasGvarma,  6 
Yatra,  10 
Ydgabhasya,  79 
Y5gam,  38 


PRINTED  AT  THE  MADRAS  LAW  JOURNAL  PRESS,   MYLAPORE. 


14  DAY  USE 

RETURN  TO  DESK  FROM  WHICH  BORROWED 

LOAN  DEPT. 

This  book  is  due  on  the  last  date  stamped  below,  or 

on  the  date  to  which  renewed. 

Renewed  books  are  subject  to  immediate  recall. 


ICL^  (N) 


'*tid^m7  9  0 


HF 


JUL  1 1'67  -',)rm 


LOAN  DEF'T 


JUL15iy/9 


4.5  ;x;  /5->5 


HtUUIR.   AUG     ''  1»8 


.D  2lA-60w-2.'67 
(H241slO)476B 


General  Library 

University  of  California 

Berkeley 


YB  2227 


kJ 


'#i.- 


mM 


