This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/ 


GIFT   OF 
MICHAEL  REESE 


UNIVERSnY  OP  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 

110  WEEKS  AFTER 
This  book  is  DUE  «a  die  last  due  stamped  below. 

Fine  sdiedale:  25  cents  on  first  day  overdue 

50  cents  on  fourth  day  overdue 
_    ;  dollar  on  seventh  day  overdue. 


FF"  11  1948 


^3 


T<y 


'•  ^*A  - 


LD  21-100m-12/46(A2012sl6)4120 


UNIVERSITY  OP  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 

110  WEEKS  AFTER 
This  book  is  DUE  «a  die  last  date  scamped  below. 

Fine  sdiedule:  25  cents  on  first  day  overdue 

50  cents  on  fourth  day  overdue 
^.Pne  dollar  on  seventh  day  overdue. 


FF"  11  1948 


<J'3 


7^<r 


'■  <^' 


IjD  21-10Oi»-12,'46(A2012s16)4120 


A 
HANDBOOK 


OF 


COLLOQUIAL  JAPANESE 


BY 


BASIL  HALL  CHAMBERLAIN, 

PROFESSOR  OF  JAPANESE  AND  PHILOLOGY  IN  THE 
IMPERIAL   UNIVERSITY  OF  JAPAN. 


U  N I  ^^  5e;  t  r. :  X  \^  J       SittoM  SDttton* 

LONDON:   TRUBNER  &  Co.,  57  &  59,   LUDGATE  HILL. 
TOKYO:        THE   HAKURU|^HA,   GINZA. 

YOKOHAMAA 

SHANGHAI^!  j^£LLY  &  WALSH,   LIMITED. 


HONGKONG 
SINGAPORE] 


1889. 

iAll  rights  reserved.} 


\\vv^ 


cs-sc^ 


^-c- -■•■--> 
PREFACE. 


T  N  the  preface  to  the  first  edition  of  this  Handbook, 
-*"  published  seven  months  ago,  readers  were  invited 
to  favour  the  author  with  corrections  and  suggestions. 
This  request  has  been  promptly  and  widely  responded  to, 
and  the  author  takes  the  present  opportunity  to  thank 
each  and  all  for  their  contributions.  More  particularly 
is  he  beholden  to  the  minute  and  critical  scholarship  of 
Mr.  Ernest  Satow,  C.  M.  G.,  Her  Britannic  Majesty's 
Minister  at  Montevideo,  of  Captain  Brinkley,  R.  A., 
Editor  of  the  "Japan  Mail,"  and  of  Mr.  J.  H.  Gubbins, 
Acting  Japanese  Secretary  to  Her  Britannic  Majesty's 
Legation  in  Japan.  Scarcely  less  valuable,  though 
from  the  opposite  standpoint  of  a  non-specialist, 
has  been  an  elaborate  criticism  by  Dr.  E.  Divers, 
F.  R.  S.  Of  Japanese  critics,  the  most  useful  have 
been  Messrs  Y.  Okakura  and  M.  Ueda,  both  orna- 
ments of  the  younger  school  of  Japanese  philology. 
Mr.  W.  B.  Mason,  of  the  Imperial  Department  of  Com- 
munications, and  Mr.  Walter  Dening,  of  the  Nobles' 
School,  Tokyo,  must  be  specially  thanked  for  having 


II  PREFACE. 

undertaken  the  labour  of  helping  to  correct  each  sheet 
as  it  came  from  the  press,  and  for  making  numerous 
valuable  suggestions.  The  first  half  of  the  work  re- 
ceived similar  kind  offices  from  Mr.  Percival  Lowell, 
of  Boston,  U.  S.  A.  Thanks  are  likewise  due  to  Mr.  J. 
Kuribayashi  for  permission  to  enrich  the  "  Fragments 
of  Conversation  "  from  the  pages  of  that  excellent  little 
book,  the  Tokyo  Jijo  Fude  Shashin,  or  "  Pen  and  Ink 
Sketches  of  Tokyo  Life,"  to  the  Rev.  T.  Ise  for  his 
sermon,  and  to  Professor  L  Nakasawa,  Dr.  H.  Kato, 
and  Dr.  R.  Mitsukuri,  for  the  lectures  by  them,  which 
occupy  most  of  the  latter  portion  of  this  volume. 

The  new  grammatical  matter  of  this  edition  has 
not  been  thrown  into  the  shape  of  additional  para- 
graphs. It  has  been  absorbed  into  the  old  paragraphs, 
with  as  little  disturbance  as  possible  of  the  order  of 
the  first  edition.  This  has  been  done  with  the  object 
of  rendering  a  work  which  the  author  has  in  view, 
and  in  which  occasional  reference  may  be  made  to 
the  "  Colloquial  Handbook,"  as  useful  to  students  of 
the  earlier  edition  as  to  those  of  the  later.  The  same 
consideration  does  not  apply  to  the  "  Practical  Part " 
of  the  Handbook.  Accordingly  the  numerous  new 
phrases,  conversations,  extracts  from  lectures,  etc., 
which  it  includes,   have  been  separately    numbered. 


PREFACE.  o  Ul 

To  the  lectures  special  attention  is  requested ;  for  the 
student  desirous  of  learning  how  to  address  Japan- 
ese audiences  cannot  do  better  than  form. his  style 
on  the  compositions  of  such  eminent  speakers  as 
Dr.  Kato  and  the  other  authors  quoted.  Moreover 
these  compositions  have  a  more  than  merely  lin- 
guistic interest.  They  exemplify  some  of  the  most 
strongly  marked  characteristics  of  the  modern  educated 
Japanese  mind, — its  indifferentism  in  matters  theologi- 
cal, and  its  burning  patriotic  zeal.  The  sermon  is 
given  as  a  specimen  of  the  new  Christian  literature, 
which  is  beginning  to  spring  up  under  missionary 
influence.  The  concluding  "Word  about  Poetry" 
shows  the  popular  mind  in  another  and  older  aspect, — 
an  aspect  which  is  scarcely  affected  by  the  many  and 
great  changes  which  the  last  twenty  years  have  brought 
about  in  external  things. 

The  literal  interlinear  translations,  originally  sug- 
gested by  Dr.  E.  Baelz,  of  the  Imperial  University  of 
Japan,  and  eagerly  adopted  by  the  author  when  en- 
gaged in  the  preparation  of  the  first  edition,  have  been 
the  object  of  much  and  various  criticism,  some  persons 
seeing  in  them  the  most  useful  feature  of  the  work, 
others  denouncing  them  as  a  premium  on  laziness  in 
the  beginner,   and  a  hindrance  to  such  as  are  more 


iv  PREFACE. 

advanced.  The  author  has  not  trusted  his  own 
judgment  to  decide  this  debated  question  either  way. 
While,  therefore,  retaining  the  literal  interlinear  trans- 
lations in  most  places,  he  has  endeavoured  to  con- 
ciliate all  tastes  by  giving  none  but  free  translations  of 
IF  447 — 8,  IF  450,  IF  454,  and  thence  to  the  end  of  the 
volume. 

With  these  few  words  of  acknowledgment  and  ex- 
planation, the  author  leaves  his  work  to  the  kind 
indulgence  of  students. 

Imperial  University  of  Japan. 
Tokyo,  May,  1889. 


C 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


(THEORETICAL  PART, 

OR 

GRAMMAR.) 


CHAPTER  I. 
INTRODUCTORY  REMARKS. 

IF  I.  Method  of  Using  this  Handbook. — If  2.  Necessity  for  Much 
Learning  by  Heart. — IT  3.  Relationship  of  Japanese  to  Other 
Languages. — IT  4.  Differences  between  Ancient  and  Modern  Japan- 
ese.— IT  5,  6.  Influence  of  Chinese  on  Japanese. — IT  7.  Japanese 
Writing,  the  Kana  Syllabaries. — %S.  Colloquial  Literature. — IT  g. 
Parts  of  Speech. — IF  10.  Errors  into  which  European  Speakers 
are  Apt  to  Fall Page  i—  12. 


CHAPTER  n. 
PRONUNCIATION  AND  LETTER-CHANGES. 

IT  II.  Letters. — IF  12, 13.  Vowels,  Short  and  Long. — %  14 — 20.  Vowel 
Peculiarities,  Hi  Mispronounced  as  Shi,  Quiescent  Vowels. — 
%  21 — 23.  Diphthongs. — %  24 — 25.  Consonants,  Simple  and 
Double. — IT  26.  Final  Letters. — IT  27.  Accent. — IT  28 — 32.  Letter- 
Changes,  the  Nigori,  Reduplication  of  Consonants. — ^  33. 
Change  of  ^  to  a  in  Compounds. — IT  34.  Japanese  Inability  to 
Pronounce  Certain  Combinations,  of  Letters,  Changes  hence  Re- 
sulting in  Imported  European  Words, — IF  35.  Euphonic  Con- 
tractions     Page  13 —  25. 


VI  TABLE   OF    CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER  III. 

THE  NOUN. 

^  36 — 44.  Number  and  Gender. — If  45 — 49^  Compound  Nouns, 
Synthesis  of  Contradictories,  Difference  between  Native  and 
Chinese  Compounds,  Hyphens. — IF  50.  Word-Building,  Proper 
Names. — IF  51.  Honorifics. — If  52.  Nouns  in  ga  and  mi. — If  53 — 
54.  Koto  and  Mono. — If  55.  Names  of  Shops. — IF  56.  Names 
of  Trees,  Rivers,  Islands,  and  Mountains. — IF  57.  Aida^  Hazu, 
Toku — IF  58.  TokorOf  Dokoro, — IF  59.  Verbs  used  as  Nouns. — 
IF  60—63.  Nouns  Used  as  Adjectives. — IF  64.  Nouns  Used  as 
Adverbs ..     ..  Page  26 — 43. 

CHAPTER  IV. 

THE  PRONOUN. 

^  65 — 71.  Personal  Pronouns. — IF  72.  Reflexive  Pronouns. — % 
73 — 79.  Demonstrative,  Interrogative,  and  Indefinite  Pronouns 
and  Adverbs  (IF  74.  Table  of  Pronouns  and  Adverbs.). — IF 
80 — 86.  Relative  Pronouns,  Tokoro  tio        Page  44 — 59. 

CHAPTER  V. 

THE  POSTPOSITION. 

IF  87,  Postpositions  Proper  (including  IF  88 — 90.  De, — 91—94. 
Ga. — IF  95 — 98.  Ka. — IF  99 — 100.  Kara. — IF  loi.  Made. — 
IF  102.  Mo. — IF  103.  Motte — IF  104 — 109.  Ni. — IF  no — 114. 
jVo.— IF  115.  Dano.--^\  116.  S/ti.- IF  117— 121.  To,  Tote.— 
IF  122 — 125.  Wa. — IF  126—128.  Difference  between  Wa  and 
Gfl.— IF  129 — 132.  Wo.—^  133.  Ya. — IF  134.  Ye. — IF  135.  Yori.) — 
IF  136 — 140.  Postpositions  Combined,  No  «t,  Wobay  To  Wa. — 
IF  141 — 145.  Quasi- Postpositions Page  60 — 97. 

CHAPTER  VI. 

THE  NUMERAL. 

IF  146.  General  Considerations. — ^  147 — 151.  Native  Numerals. — 
If  152.  Chinese    Numerals. — H  153.  Letter-Changes  of  Chinese 


TABLE   OF   CONTENTS.  VII 

Numerals. — IT  154 — 156.  Sundry  Peculiarities  of  Numerals* — 
IT  157 — 160.  Chinese  Auxiliary  Numerals. — ^  161.  Native 
Auxiliary  Numerals. — IT  162.  Counting  of  Human  Beings. — 
IT  163 — 165.  Interrogative  Numeral  Words. — H  166.  Ordinal  and 
Fractional  Numbers. — H  167 — 172.  Counting  of  Time. — H  173 — 
174.  Miscellaneous  Numeral  Locutions      Page  g8 — 116. 

CHAPTER  VII. 

THE  ADJECTIVE. 

IF  175 — 185.  Primary  Inflections  in  kiy  shi^  ku  (i,  o,  fi),  Adjective 
Stems,  Table  of  Primary  Inflections. — %  186 — 190.  Secondary  or 
Tense  and  Mood  Inflections,  Tables  of  d^,  Negative  Adjective 
Naiy  Negative  Conjugation. — ir  191.  Compound  Adjectives. — 
IT  192.  Beki. — H  193.  Desiderative  Adjectives  in  tai. — IT  194. 
Rashii,  Reduplicated  Stems. — IT  195.  Gam  and  Tagaru. — IT  196— 
210.  Quasi- Adjectives  (including  IT  197.  No,  iVa,  and  Na  No. — 
IF  198.  So  na, — IT  205 — 7.  Verbs  used  as  Adjectives. — IT  208 — g. 
Common  Errors  of  Foreigners. — Diminutives  in  ko,  and  Aug- 
mentatives  in  o). — IT  211 — 214.  Comparison  of  Adjectives. — 
IT  215 — 21  g.  Miscellaneous  Items Page  117 — 144. 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

THE  VERB. 

IT  220.  Fundamental  Differences  between  Japanese  and  European 
Verbs. — IT  221 — 222.  Analysis  of  Verbal  Forms  into  Root,  Stem, 
Base,  and  Agglutinated  Suffix. — IF  223.  Roots. — IF  224 — 225. 
Bases. — IF  226.  Verbs  how  Named. — IF  227.  Introductory  Remarks 
on  the  Paradigms. — IF  228 — 230.  Paradigms  of  the  Three  Regular 
Conjugations. — IF  231 — 233.  Paradigms  of  the  Irregular  Verbs 
Kuru,  Suruj  And  MasU, — ^  234.  Verbs  for  Practice. — IF  235 — 237. 
Peculiarities  of  First  Conjugation  (with  Table). — IF  238.  Kyoto 
Peculiarities. — ^  239.  Rationale  of  Phonetic  Changes  in  Stems 
ending  in  s,  t,  or  a  Vowel. — IF  240 — 267.  Analysis  of  the  Formation 
of  the  Moods  and  Tenses. — IF  268 — 272.  Irregular  Verbs,  viz., 
i4r»,  GozarUf  IrasshatUy  Kudasaru^  NasarUy  OssharUf  Iku,  and 
Shinuru, — IF  273 — 291.   Remarks  on  the  Use  of  the  Moods  and 


Vlll  TABLE    OF    CONTENTS. 

Tenses  (including  IT  273 — 276.  Present,  Past,  and  Future.— 
IT  277.  Infinitive. — 11  278 — 279.  Indefinite  Form. — IT  280—282. 
Gerund. — If  283.  Gerund  of  Adjectives. — If  284.  Emphasised 
Gerund. — If  285.  Desiderative  Adjective  and  Adjective  of  Pro- 
bability.— If  286.  Form  in  so, — If  287.  Conditional  Mood,  Old 
Hypothetical  Mood,  Naraba^  Elliptical  Idioms  Corresponding  to 
English  Would,  Should,  Could,  etc. — If  288.  Concessive  Mood 
and  Idioms. — If  290.  Frequentative  Form. — If  291.  Imperative 
Mood). — If  192 — 302.  Auxiliary  Verbs  (including  If  292.  Stems 
Built  up  by  Means  of  Auxiliaries. — If  293.  Aru. — If  294.  Iru  and 
Oru. — If  295.  Ktiru,  Illative  Tenses. — If  296.  Miru, — If  297. 
Naraba. — If  298.  Oku. — If  299.  Shimau, — If  300.  Suru^  Itasu. — 
If  301.  Yaru. — ^  302.  -Auxiliaries  make  the  Sentence  Lifelike 
and  Picturesque) Page  145 — 192. 


CHAPTER  IX. 
1  HE  VERB  (CONCLUDED). 

If  303.  Passive  Voice.-7-1f  304.  Origin  of  Passive  Explains 
Peculiarities  of  its  Use. — If  305 — 308.  Curious  Examples,  Wo  in 
Passive  Constructions,  Aru. — If  309.  Passive  Passes  into  Poten- 
tial.— If  310.  Dekiru, — If  311,  Kaneru. — If  312.  Morau^  Itadaku. — 

313.  English  Passives  Expressed  by  Japanese  Intransitives. — If 

314.  Aversion  of  the  Japanese  Language  to  the  Use  of  the  Pas- 
sive.— If  315 — 316.  Intransitives  in  eru. — If  317 — 318.  Difference 
between  Intransitives  in  eru^  Potentials  in  areru  or  rareru,  and 
Passives  in  areru  or  rareru, — If  319.  Second  and  Third  Conju- 
gations how  Treated. — If  320.  Examples  of  Intransitives. — 
If  321 — 323.  Transitive  and  Intransitive  Pairs  of  Verbs. — If  324. 
Absence  of  Reflective  Verbs. — If  325 — 333.  Causative  Verbs. — 
If  334 — 340.  Compound  Verbs. — If  341 — 349.  Equivalents  of 
the  Verb  To  Be,  Aru,  Gozaru,  Da,  DesU,  Iru,  Oru,  Irassharu, 
O  ide  nasaru,  Ja,  Naru,  Suru. — If  350—358.  Sum  (If  353.  Zuru, 
jiru). — If  359. — 361.  Verbs  Liable  to  be  Mistaken  for  Each 
Other. — (If  361.  Paradigm  of  Iru,  Ireru,  and  Iru), — If  362 — 365. 
Verbs  used  as  Other  Parts  of  Speech.  (If  364.  Reduplication  of 
Present  Tense)      Page  193—224. 


TABLE    OF    CONTENTS.  iX 

CHAPTER  X. 

THE  ADVERB,  INTERJECTION,  AND  CONJUNCTION. 
SPECIAL  PHRASEOLOGY. 

IT  366.  Absence  of  True  Adverbs. — H  367.  Adjective  Forms  in  ku 
used  Adverbially. — H  368 — 370.  Nouns  used  as  Adverbs. — 
IT  371.  Phonetic  Decay. — If  372.  Gerunds  used  as  Adverbs. — 
IT  373.  List  of  Adverbs. — IT  374 — ^376.  Yes  and  No. — IF  377. 
Adverbial  Phrases. — H  378.  Onomatopoetic  Adverbs. — IT  379 — 
384.  Interjections  (H  382.  Naruhodo.—%  383.  Ne),—M  385. 
Bad  Language. — H  386.  Baby  Language. — IF  387.  Women's 
Language. — H  388.  Court  Language. — 1[  389 — 391.  Conjunc- 
tions    Page  225 — 237. 

CHAPTER  XI. 

HONORIPICS. 

IT  392 — 393.  General  Considerations. — IF  394.  Honorifics  only 
Partially  Replace  the  Pronouns  of  other  Languages. — IF  395 — 
396.  O  and  Go. — IF  397.  Sama  applied  to  Things  or  Acts. — 
IF  398.  Honorifics  used  Objectively. — IF  399.  O  Saki, — IF  400. 
Meaningless  Use  of  Honorifics. — IF  401.  On,  Mi, — IF  402 — ^404. 
Honorific  Periphrases  for  Verbs. — IF  405 — 406.  Special  Honorific 
and  Humble  Verbs. — %  407 — 410.  Honorific  Imperatives. — 
IF  411.  Please  and  Thank  You. — IF  412 — 413.  Special  Honorific 
and  Humble  Nouns,  Names  of  Relationship. — IF  414.  Written 
Language  Forms. — IF  415.  Scantiness  of  Self- Depreciatory 
Forms. — IF  416,  Sir,  Madam,  Mr. — IF  417.  Mrs.,  Miss. — IF  418. 
Women's  Names. — 419  IF  Use  of  the  Word  Mr.  ..    Page  238 — 235. 

CHAPTER  Xn. 

SYNTAX. 

^  420.  The  Fundamental  Rule  is  that  Qualifying  Words  Precede 
the  Words  they  Qualify. — IF  421.  Postpositions  only  an  Apparent 


:  TABLE    OF   CONTENTS.    . 

Exception. — IT  422.  Correlation  of  Sentences. — IT  423.  Subjects 
of  Sentences. — IT  424.  Miscellaneous  Examples. — IF  425 — 426. 
Examples  of  the  Correlation  of  Clauses  by  the  Indefinite  Form 
and  the  Gerund. — H  427.  General  Subjectlessness  of  Sentences. 
— ir  428.  Order  of  the  Direct  and  Indirect  Objects  of  the  Verb. 
— ^  429.  Ellipsis,  Final  Verb  often  Omitted. — IF  430.  Syntax 
of  Postpositions. — H  431.  Inversion  Rare. — 1[  432.  Negatives 
Mutually  Destructive. — IT  433-^434.  Peculiarity  of  Japanese 
Negatives  Owing  to  the  Absence  of  Negative  Pronouns,  Adverbs, 
and  Conjunctions. — IT  435 — ^436.  Quotation  generally  Direct. 
IT  437.  How  to  Avoid  Quotations  within  Quotations,  Peculiar 
Pleonastic  Idiom. — H  438.  Interrogation. — IT  439.  Passives. — 
.IT  440 — ^441.  Absence  of  Personification. — IT  442 — 444.  Extreme 
Tendency  to  Synthesis  as  Shown  in  the  Integration  of 
Sentences         Page  254 — 275. 


(PRACTICAL  PART, 

OR 

f 

READER). 


IT  445.    Anglo-Japanese     Vocabulary    of    over    1300    Useful 
Words       Page  276 — 294. 

U  446.  Short  Phrases  in  Constant  Use „     295 — ^309. 

IT  447.  Additional  Useful  Phrases „     310—3x6. 

U  448.  Easy  Questions  and  Answers      „     317 — 319. 


.   TABLE    OF   CONTENTS.  XI 

IT  449.  Proverbs       „     320^425. 

IF  450.  Fragments  of  Conversation,  including:  i,  The  Post; 
2,  An  Exhibition;  3,  A  Request;  4,  Engaging  a  Teacher;  5, 
What  Salary  ?  6,  Meal  Hours ;  7,  An  Enquiry ;  8,  Talking  to  a 
Child;  g,  Talking  to  a  Father;  10,  The  Telegraph;  11,  Speak- 
ing Japanese  Well;  12,  No  Thoroughfare;  13,  Compliments  on 
Meeting  a  Friend ;  14,  A  Message ;  15,  Feeling  Unwell ;  16, 
On  Board  Ship;  17,  A  Picnic;  18,  A  Visitor;  19,  Asking  the 
Way;  20,  Compliments  on  Fir^  Meeting;  21,  Taking  Leave 
of  a  Friend;  22,  Thanks  for  Assistance  Received;  23,  New  Year 
Congratulations ;  24,  An  Earthquake ;  25,  Hiring  a  Jinrikisha ; 
26,  Letters  for  the  Mail;  27,  Nearing  Yokohama;  28,  A 
Christian  Church;  29,  A  Fire;  30,  The  Theatre;  31,  Early  to 
Bed;  32,  Difficulty  of  the  Japanese  Langnage ;  33,  Asking  the 
Way ;  34,  The  Way  to  the  British  Legation ;  35,  A  Toast ;  36, 
Keeping  a  Visitor  Waiting;  37,  Looking  in  on  an  Intimate 
Friend ;  38,  Arriving  at  a  Tea- House ;  39,  A  Meeting  Dispersed ; 
40,  Shopping  at  Miyanoshita      Page  326 — ^353. 

IF  451 — ^459,  Anecdotes,  including:  ^f  451,  True  Economy;  IT  452, 
Thankful  Kichibei;  IF  453,  If  They  Wait,  Their  Ages  will  Come 
Right;  IF  454,  An  Illiterate  Dog;  ^F  455,  Two  Brothers  who 
Planted  Millet ;  IF  456, A  Dream  of  Liquor ;  IF  457,  The  Pursuit 
of  Fashion ;  IF  458,  Radishes ;  ^F  459,  An  Eye  on  the  Top  of 
the  Head Page  354 — ^377. 

IF  460—461.  Two  Chapters  from  the  "  Botan-DOrO,"  a  Novel  by 
EnchO        Page  378—415. 

IF  462.  A  Newspaper  Article,  entitled  "  Why  ?"  . .      „     416—425. 

IF  463 — 465.  Lectures,  including :  IF  463,  A  Talk  about  Investiga- 
tion ;  IF  464,  A  Warning  against  a  Fashionable  Mania ;  IF  465,  A 
Point  of  Moral  Culture Page  426 — 445. 

*[  466.  Extract  from  a  Sermon ,,      446 — 451. 

IF  467 — ^475.  A  Word  about  Poetry ,     452 — 456. 


Xll  TABLE    OF   CONTENTS. 

IT  476.  Vocabulary  of  all  the  Japanese  Words  Contained  in  this 
Work Page  457—535. 

H  477.  Index  OF  SUBJECTS        „      537 — 541. 

IT  478.  Additions  AND  Corrections     „      542 — 543. 


THEORETICAL 
PART. 


/•  ^■ 


•trrT 


HANDBOOK 


OF 


COLLOQUIAL  JAPANESE. 

CHAPTER     I. 
Introductory  Remarks. 


ir  I.  **  How  can  I  learn  to  speak  Japanese  ?" — This  question 
has  been  so  often  addressed  to  the  present  writer,  that  he 
has  resolved  to  put  his  answer  into  a  permanent  shape. 
He  is  persuaded  that  no  language  was  ever  learnt  solely 
from  a  grammar, — least  of  all  a  language  like  Japanese, 
whose  structure  and  idioms  are  so  alien  from  all  that  we 
are  accustomed  to  in  Europe.  The  student  is  therefore 
recommended  only  to  glance  through  the  Theoretical  Part 
at  first,  in  order  to  obtain  a  general  idea  of  the  territory  he 
has  to  conquer.  He  can  pick  up  by  the  way  such  of  the 
examples  as  strike  him,  committing  them  to  memory  and 
seeking  opportunities  for  using  them  to  his  servants  and 
his  native  teacher.  He  should  then  go  on  to  the  Practi- 
cal Part,  and  attack  the  "  Scraps  of  Conversations  '*  and 
the  **  Anecdotes  "  as  soon  as  possible,  however  baffling  it 
may  seem  to  be  confronted  with  such  long  sentences. 
After  all,  as  Japanese  consists  chiefly  of  long  sentences, 
one  cannot  too  early  decide  to  face  them.  A  little  prac- 
tice will  rob  them  of  much  of  their  terror.  Every  now 
and  then  the  Theoretical  Part  should  be  consulted  on 


4  INTRODUCTORY   REMARKS. 

difficult  points.  It  should  be  read  through  carefully,  a 
little  at  a  time,  after  a  diligent  study  of  the  Practical  Part 
and  a  committal  of  a  few  pages  of  the  latter  to  memory 
shall  have  caused  the  student  to  make  some  way  in  the 
mastery  of  the  language.  . 
1i  2.  The  necessity  for  memorising  cannot  be  too  strongly 
insisted  upon.  It  is  the  sole  means  of  escape  from  the 
pernicious  habit  of  thinking  in  English,  translating  every 
sentence  literally  from  a  whispered  English  original,  and 
therefore  beginning  and  ending  by  speaking  English 
Japanese  instead  of  Japanese  Japanese.  It  is  not  only 
that  the  words  and  idioms  of  Japanese  differ  from  our 
English  words  and  idioms,  but  that  the  same  set  of  cir- 
cumstances does  not  always  draw  from  Japanese  speakers 
remarks  similar  to  those  which  it  would  draw  from 
European  speakers.  Japanese  thoughts  do  not  run  in 
quite  the  same  channels  as  ours.  To  take  a  very  simple 
instance.  If  an  Englishman  wishes  to  make  a  polite 
remark  to  a  friend  about  the  latter's  sick  father,  he  will 
probably  say  **  I  hope  your  father  is  better  to-day."  In 
French,  German,  Italian,  etc.,  the  phrase  would  be  pretty 
nearly  the  same.  In  each  of  these  languages  the  same 
kindly  hope  would  be  expressed.  In  Japanese  it  is  differ- 
ent.    The  phrase  would  run  thus : 

Otottsan  wa,        do    de    gozaimasu? 

or,  more  politely. 

Go        shimpu       wa,     ikaga    de     irasshaimasu  ? 

tMngUBi   retUmfaiherofforf     how  deign§»io»bef 

The  idea  of  hoping  or  fearing,  which  to  us  is  so  famili- 
ar, does  not  present  itself  with  the  same  vividness  and 
frequency   to  the  less  anxious,  less  high-strung  Oriental 


RELATIONSHIP    TO   OTHER   LANGUAGES.  5 

mind.  The  characteristic  phrase  here  is  rather  the  ever- 
recurring 

^,.,    ,  .  (     "There  is  nothing 

Shikata  ga  nai.   ^^  ^e  done ;"  -  There 

:D0iMg»9i^^  (nommattve particle)  i9''Moi,  \  .  ,    .     r      .    », 

The  student  should  endeavour  to  place  himself  from  the 
outset  at  the  Japanese  point  of  view.  This  he  can  do 
only  by  dint  of  much  learning  by  heart.  The  trouble 
thus  taken  will  be  of  infinite  advantage  to  him,  even  if 
his  ultimate  aim  be  the  indoctrination  of  the  Japanese 
with  foreign  ideas.  It  will  put  him  in  sympathy  with 
his  hearers.  It  is  true  that,  of  late,  English  idioms  have 
begun  to  penetrate  into  the  Japanese  language.  But  it 
is  chiefly  into  the  language  of  the  lecture-hall  and  the 
committee-room.  The  style  of  familiar  every-day  speech 
is  as  yet  scarcely  affected  by  this  new  influence. 

ir  3.  It  is  still  doubtful  under  what  family  of  languages  Japan- 
ese should  be  classed.  There  is  no  relationship  between 
it  and  Aino,  the  speech  of  the  hairy  aborigines  whom 
the  Japanese  conquerors  have  gradually  pushed  eastwards 
and  northwards.  In  structure,  though  not  to  any  ap- 
preciable extent  in  vocabulary,  Japanese  closely  resembles 
Korean  ;  and  both  it  and  Korean  may  possibly  be  related 
to  Mongol  and  to  Manchu,  and  therefore  claim  to  be 
included  in  the  Altaic  group.  Be  this  as  it  may,  Japan- 
ese is  what  is  generally  termed  an  agglutinative  language, 
that  is  to  say  that  it  builds  up  its  words  and  grammatical 
forms  by  means  of  suffixes  loosely  soldered  to  the  root  or 
stem.  It  also  shows  faint  traces  of  the  **  law  of  vowel 
harmony"  or  "  attraction,'*  which  characterises  the  Altaic 
languages.  This  manifests  itself  in  a  tendency  to  unifor- 
mity in  the  vowels  of  successive  syllables;  as  ototoski,  **the 


6  INTRODUCTORY   REMARKS. 

year  before  last,*'  for  ato  toshi.  Similarly  in  several  of 
the  words  recently  adopted  from  English,  such  as  mishin, 
"a  (sewing-)  machine;"  Gotto,  "the  Christian  God;" 
bukkuy  "  a  European  book." 

II  4.  The  earliest  Japanese  literature  that  has  come  down 
to  us.  dates,  in  its  present  form,  from  the  beginning  of 
the  eighth  century  after  Christ.  The  general  structure 
of  the  language  at  that  time  was  nearly  the  same  as  it 
is  now.  But  the  changes  of  detail  have  been  so  nume- 
rous, that  a  page  of  eighth  century  Japanese  is  unintel- 
ligible to  a  modern  native  of  Tokyo  without  special 
study.  One  of  the  chief  factors  in  the  alteration  of  the 
language  has  been  the  gradual  infiltration  of  Chinese 
words  and  phrases,  which  naturally  accompanied  the 
borrowing  of  Buddhism,  Confucianism,  and  the  various 
arts  and  sciences  of  China.  Chinese  established  itself, 
so  to  speak,  as  the  Latin  and  Greek  of  Japan.  It  retains 
this  position  even  at  the  present  day,  supplying  names 
for  almost  all  the  new  implements,  sciences  and  ideas, 
which  are  being  introduced  from  Europe  and  America. 
In  this  manner,  one  very  curious  and  quite  unexpected 
result  pf  the  Europeanisation  of  Japan  has  been  the  flood- 
ing of  the  language  with  Chinese  terms  at  a  rate  never 
known  before.     Thus  we  have  : 

jo'ki-sefif     lit.  "  steam -vapour-ship,"       "  a  steamer." 
j6-ki-sha^       ,,"  steam -vapour-vehicle,"  **  a  rail  way  train." 
min-ken,        ,,  "  people-authority,"  "  democracy." 

sha-shin,        „** copy-truth,"  "a  photograph." 

ron-ri'gakti,  ff  ** argue-reason-science,"  "logic." 
tetsu-dOf         ,,  "  iron -road,"  "  a  railway." 

ban-koku  ko-  „  j "  myriad -countries  |       j  "  international 
hOy  {       public-law,"      j        \       law." 


revision. 


chiWesb  words. 

j6-yaku  hai'  lit.  ( "  treaty  amend-  )  ,, 

sei,  I       ment,"  J  ^ 

.,  ,         ...      f "  set-up-law  gov-  )    (  <<  constitutional 
rtk'/ienset-jt,,,^       ernment,"  j    1        government." 

yu-sho  rep'     „  ("superior-conquer  )     f  **  the  survival  of 
pai^  \       inferior-lose,"     ft*     the  fittest." 

IT  5.  The  Japanese  do  not  pronounce  Chinese  in  a  manner 
that  would  be  intelligible  to  any  Chinaman.  They  have 
two  standards  of  pronunciation,  both  of  which  are 
corruptions  of  the  Chinese  pronunciation  of  over  a 
thousand  years  ago.  One  of  these  is  called  the  Go-on ^ 
the  other  the  Kan-ofty  from  the  names  of  certain  ancient 

•  Chinese  kingdoms.  Usage  decrees  that  the  same  word 
shall  be  pronounced  according  to  the  Go-on  in  some  con- 
texts, and  according  to  the  Kan-on  in  others.  Thus  the 
myo  of  dai-tnyo,  "  a  feudal  noble  "  (lit.  **  a  great  name  "), 
is  the  same  as  the  mei  of  mei-butsu,  **the  chief  production 
of  a  locality"  (lit.  **  a  name-thing"  i.e,  "  a  famous  thing"). 
In  this  case  myo  is  the  Go-on,  and  mei  the  Kan-on,  of  the 
same  Chinese  character  £»  which  in  China  itself  is  pro- 
nounced ming.  The  practical  student  will  do  best  to 
learn  words  by  rote,  without  troubling  himself  as  to 
whether  each  term,  if  Chinese,  be  in  the  Go-on  or  in  the 
Kan-on, 

U  6.  The  effect  of  the  steady  influx  of  Chinese  words 
during  more  than  a  millennium  has  been  to  discredit 
the  native  Japanese  equivalents  even  when  they  exist. 
A  foreigner  who  wishes  to  be  considered  an  elegant 
speaker  should,  therefore,  gradually  accustom  himself 
to  employ  Chinese  words  very  freely,  except  when 
addressing  uneducated  persons.  He  should,  for  in- 
stance, prefer 


/ 


8  INTRODUCTORY  REMARKS. 

CHINESE  JAPANESE 

jin-ryoku{suru), "  to  endeavour,"  to  chikara  wo  tsukusu,  ^ 
myo-chOf  "to-morrow  morning,"  to  ashlta  no  asa. 
0-Beiy  "  Europe  and  America,"  to  Yoroppa  to  Amerika  to. 
sak-kon/^ yesterdsiysindio-dsiy,''  to  kin<i to  kyd  $^  Ch^  ,  f 

tdi'bokUf  **  a  large  treej"  to  oki  na  ki. 

Wa-sei,     "Japanese  made,"        to  Nihon-deki. 

Some  persons  indeed,  both  Japanese  and  foreign,  regret 
the  fashionable  preference  for  Chinese  words.  But  the 
fashion  exists,  and  to  follow  it  is  considered  a  mark  of 
refinement ;  neither  is  it  possible,  even  were  it  desirable,  for 
an  outsider  to  set  up  a  standard  of  his  own,  different  from 
that  acknowledged  by  the  people  themselves.  The  copi- 
ousness of  the  Chinese  tongue,  and  the  marvellous  terse- 
ness which  generally  enables  it  to  express  in  two  or  three 
syllables  ideas  which  would  require  five  or  six  in  Japanese 
and  indeed  in  almost  any  other  language,  form  an  argu- 
^ment  in  favour  of  this  species  of  Japanese  Johnsonianism. 
On  the  other  hand,  much  confusion  is  caused  by  the  fact 
that  numbers  of  Chinese  words  are  pronounced  alike.-  The 
consequence  of  this  is  that  it  is  often  impossible  to  know 
what  a  term  means,  without  reference  to  the  Chinese 
characters  with  which  it  is  written.  In  any  case,  whether 
he  speak  simply  or  learnedly,  the  student  should  at  least 
avoid  speaking  vulgarly.  Japanese  resembles  English  in 
being  full  of  slang  and  vulgarisms  of  every  sort.  But  what 
should  we  say  to  a  young  Japanese,  who,  having  been 
sent  to  London  to  learn  our  language,  should  return  home 
with  the  haccent  of  'Ighga'te  and  the  diction  of  the  street 
Arab  ?  Japanese  has  also  many  provincial  dialects,  some 
of  which  remain  more  faithful  in  certain  respects  to  the 
traditions  of  the  Classical  language  than  does  the  dialect 


SYSTEM   OF   WRITING.  9 

of  Tokyo.  But  the  dialect  of  Tokyo  (itself  a  slightly 
modified  form  of  the  Kyoto  dialect,  which  was  formerly 
con^sidered  the  standard  Colloquial)  has  on  its  side  an 
ever-increasing  importance  and  preponderance,  as  the  ge- 
neral medium  of  polite  intercourse  throughout  the  country. 
Practical  students  are  strongly  advised  to  devote  them- 
selves to  it  alone.  If  they  speak  it  well,  they  will  be  as 
generally  understood  as  a  man  who  speaks  standard 
English  is  generally  understood  in  England,  that  is  to  say 
that  they  will  be  understood  everywhere  by  all  but  the 
peasantry,  and  in  most  provinces  even  by  the  peasantry. 

7.  Japanese  writing  consists  of  the  Chinese  characters, — 
ideographs,  as  they  are  sometimes  styled, — mixed  with  a 
syllabic  writing  called  the  Kana,  The  meaning  of  the  lat- 
ter term  is  *'  borrowed  jkari)  names  («a)."  It  has  refer- 
ence to  the  borrowing,  or,  as  we  should  say,  adaptation,  of 
characters  originally  ideographic  for  the  purpose  of  phone- 
tic transcription.  The  Kana  syllabary  is  a  native  Japan- 
ese invention,  dating  back  over  a  thousand  years.  There 
are  two  principal  forms  of  it.  These  are  the  Kata-kana, 
or  **  Part  Kana,''  so-called  because  the  signs  composing  it 
consist  of  fragments  of  the  square  Chinese  characters, 
and  the  Hira-gana,  or  **  Easy  Kana,''  s6  called  because 
consisting  of  entire  Chinese  characters  written  in  the  most 
sketchy  cursive  hand.  We  cannot,  within  the  limits  of 
the  present  work,  treat  any  further  of  this  subject.  Stu- 
dents desirous  of  pursuing  it  are  recommended  to  begin 
by  the  Hira-gana,  and  then  pass  on  to  a  study  of  the 
most  usual  Chinese  square  characters,  as  given  in  Mr. 
Fukuzawa  Yukichi's  "  Moji  no  Oshie  "  (three  small  vol- 
umes, to  be  obtained  in  Tokyo  at  the  Chukindo,  Ginza 
Ni-cho-me,  or  at  Mita,  Keio  Gijiku).     The  whole  subject 


10  INTRODUCTORY  REMARKS. 

of  the  Kana  and  Chinese  characters  is  minutely  treated  in 
several  of  the  *^  Readers  "  recently  compiled  for  use  in  the 
primary  schools.  One  of  the  best  is  Mr.  Kudo  Seiichi's 
"  Shin  Tokuhon  "  (eight  small  volumes,  to  be  obtained  in 
T6ky6  at  Okura  Yasugor6's,  No.  i8,  Nihon-bashi-d6ri, 
It-cho-me).  The  Kata-kana,  though  so  much  more  simple- 
looking  than  the  Hira-gana  and  the  Chinese  characters, 
is  less  understood  by  the  people  at  large.  At  the  present 
day  there  is  a  party  in  favour  of  the  introduction  of  the 
Roman  alphabet.  Its  organ,  the  "  Romaji  Zasshi,''  gives 
articles  in  various  styles,  romanised  according  to  Dr. 
Hepburn's  simple  phonetic  system,  which  is  now  general- 
ly followed  by  foreigners  who  write  on  Japanese  subjects, 
and  which  has  therefore  been  adopted  in  this  Handbook. 

If  8.  It  is  possible  to  learn  to  speak  Japanese  quite  correctly 
without  studying  the  native  system  of  writing.  Unfor- 
tunately the  acquirement  of  the  Colloquial  does  not  help 
much  towards  the  comprehension  of  books,  newspapers, 
and  letters,  even  supposing  the  student  to  have  them 
read  aloud  to  him.  The  Japanese  are  still  in  the  state 
in  which  we  were  during  the  Middle  Ages.  They  donpt 
write  as  they  speak,  but  use  an  antiquated  and  indeed 
partly  artificial  dialect  whenever  they  put  pen  to  paper. 
This  is  the  so-called  "Written  Language."  Of  the  few 
books  published  in  the  Colloquial,  the  best  are  the  novels 
of  a  living  author  named  Encho.  The  student,  who  does 
not  wish  to  trouble  about  the  characters,  cannot  do  better 
than  write  out  one  of  these  books  from  his  teacher's  dic- 
tation. It  should  be  added  that  they  contain  not  a  few 
passages  to  which  lady  students  would  take  exception. 
This  is  the  case  with  all  Japanese  fiction.  It  is  not  that 
the  Japanese  novelists  love  to  wallow,  Zola-like,  in  vice. 


COLLOQUIAL   LITERATURE.  H 

On  the  contrary,  their  sentiments  mostly  leave  nothing 
to  be  desired.  But  they  have  a  startlingly  realistic  way  of 
calling  a  spade  a  spade.  Here  are  the  titles  of  EnchO's 
two  best  works  : — 

*^Botan-Ddrd,''  the  story  of  a  last  century  vendetta. 

"  EzO'Nishiki  Kohyo  no  lezuto,*'  a  clever  adaptation  to 
moJern  Japanese  social  conditions  of  Wilkie  Collins' 
"  New  Magdalen."  It  appeared  as  a  feuilleton  to  the 
**  YamatD  Shimbun  "  newspaper  in  1886-7. 

Another  amusing  novel  in  Colloquial  is  the  *- Ansei 
Mitsu-gumi  Sakazuhiy'  by  Hakuen.  It  deals  with  middle 
and  lower  class  life  during  the  last  days  of  the  ShOgunate. 

Occasionally,  too,  the  newspapers,  the  **  Transactions  " 
of  the  Educational,  Geographical,  and  other  learned 
Societies,  and  such  collections  of  lectures  and  speeches 
as  the  "  Taika  Ronshu,''  the  ^*  Kodan  Enzetsu-shu,*'  etc., 
print  a  lecture  exactly  as  taken  down  by  the  short-hand 
reporter  from  the  mouth  of  the  lecturer,  though  the  more 
usual  practice  is  to  dress  everything  up  in  the  Written 
Style  before  it  is  allowed  to  appear  in  print. 

9.  A  word  as  to  the  parts  of  speech  in  Japanese.  Strictly 
speaking,  there  are  but  two,  the  verb  and  the  noun.  The 
particles^  or  "postpositions"  and  suffixes,  which  take  the 
place  of  our  prepositions,  conjunctions  and  conjugational 
terminations,  were  themselves  originally  fragments  of 
nouns  and  verbs.  The  pronoun  and  numeral  are  simply 
nouns.  The  true'  adjective  (including  the  adverb)  is  a 
sort  of  neuter  verb.  •  But  many  words  answering  to  our 
adjectives  and  adverbs  are  nouns  in  Japanese.  There  is 
no  article.  Altogether  our  grammatical  categories  do  not 
fit  the  Japanese  language  well.      They  have  only  been 


\ 


12  INTRODUCTORY   REMARKS. 

adhered  to  in  this  work  in  so  far  as  they  may  serve  as 
landmarks  familiar  to  the  student. 

ir  10.  In  conclusion,  the  following  warnings  concerning 
errors  into  which  European  speakers  of  Japanese  are  apt 
to  fall,  may  be  found  useful : — 

Do  not  confound  long  and  short  vowels.     (See  ^13.) 
Do  not  use  personal  pronouns  too  freely.     (See  ^71.) 
Do  not  insert  the  postposition  wo  between  a  true  adjec- 
tive and  the  noun  to  which  it  belongs.     (See  I1  208.) 

Do  not  apply  honorifics  to  yourself.  For  me  to  ask 
any  one,  for  instance,  to  shinjo  something  to  myself,  or 
to  haiken  something  belonging  to  myself,  would  be  as  if 
I  should  say  :  **  Have  the  honour  to  giwt  it  to  me,"  or 
**  Have  the  honour  to  look  at  this  thing  belonging  to 
me."  As  explained  in  Chap.  XI,  honorifics  can  only  be 
applied  to  other  people,  and  humble  terms  must  be  used 
in  speaking  of  oneself.  I  shinjo  (lit.  **  respectfully  lift 
up")  something  to  you  ;  but  I  ask  you  to  kudasai  (lit. 
.**  condescend")  something  to  me.  I  haiken  (lit.  "ador- 
ingly look  at ")  something  belonging  to  you  ;  but  I  ask  you 
to  goran  nasai  (lit.  "august-glance  deign")  something  be- 
longing to  me.  (See  II  405.)  If  you  hear  beggars  in 
the  street  shouting  after  you  to  shinjo  a  copper  to  them, 
it  is  only  because,  having  learnt  from  experience  that 
foreigners  constantly  misuse  the  honorifics,  they  think 
to  ingratiate  themselves  and  to  be  more  easily  under- 
stood by  doing  likewise.  Were  they  addressing  a  Japan- 
ese, they  would  never  dream  of  saying  anything  so  rude 
and  so  absurd. 


V  *• 


CHAPTER     II. 

Pronunciation  and  Letter -Changes. 


PRONUNCIATION. 

If  II.  Japanese,  when  written  phonetically  with  the  Roman 
alphabet,  according  to  the  phonetic  spelling  sanctioned 
by  the  Romanisation  Society  and  Dr.  Hepburn*s  Dic- 
tionary, requires  the  same  letters  as  English,  with  the 
exception  of  /,  g,  v  and  x.  The  letter  c  occurs  only 
in  the  combination  ch,  which  is  sounded  nearly  like 
English  ch  in  **  church,"  but  a  little  more  softly,  as 
cha,  "  tea  ;"  chichiy  **  milk." 

IT  12.  The  vowels  are  sounded  as  in  Spanish  and  Italian, 
but  are  always  short,  unless  marked  with  the  sign  of  long 
quantity.  It  is  impossible  to  express  the  values  of  the 
Japanese  vowels  correctly  in  English  ;  but,  speaking  ap- 
proximately, we  may  say  that 

a  resembles  the  a  in  **  father,"       but  is  shorter. 

"  men." 

"  machine,"  but  is  shorter. 

"for"  (not  "four"). 

*^bush." 

"  bone,"  but  is  a  purer  o, 

"  food." 

IT  13,  Very  great  care  must  be  taken  to  distinguish  the  short 
from  the  long  vowels;  for  there  are  many  words  totally  dis- 
tinct in  meaning,  but  differing,  so  far  as  pronunciation  is 
concerned,  merely  in  the  quantity  of  their  vowels,  thus : 


e 

>j           J 

,   e 

i 

>»           3 

,   i 

0 

y     0 

u 

>> 

,     « 

6 

>) 

,     0 

u 

nOO 

14 


PRONUNCIATION  AND  LETTER- CHANGES. 


dozOf  "  a  mud  godown  ;*" 
koko,  "here;" 
satOf    "  a  village  ;  " 
toruy  "  to  take  ;  " 
tsuji)  "  a  cross-road  ;  " 


dozo,  **  please," 

kokOy  "  filial  piety."       XcTkt; 

sato,    "  sugar." 

torUf    **  to  pass  through." 

tsUjif  **  an  interpreter." 


zutsi4y "  [one,  etc.]  at  a  time  ;  "  zutsil,  *^  a  headache." 

The  only  long  vowels  of  common  occurence  are  6  and 
u.  Long  a  hardly  occurs,  excepting  in  the  interjections 
a  !  md  !  nd  !  and  !  sd  !  and  in  the  words  obdsan,  **  an  old 
lady,"  *'  grandmamma,"  and  okkdsan  (but  also  okkasan), 
"  mamma."  Long  c  hardly  occurs  excepting  in  the  inter- 
jection ne.  Long  £  does  not  occur,  its  place  being  taken 
by  double  n,  as  in  yoroshiiy  **  good,"  as  it  is  considered 
that  careful  speakers  sound  the  two  Vs  separately. 
IT  14.  When  preceded  by  another  vowel  or  by  «,  the  vowel 
e  is  sounded  as  ycy  i  as  yiy  and  o  as  ivo.  Thus  ue 
"above;"  kon-in,  "marriage;"  and  shio,  "  salt,"  are  respec- 
tively pronounced  (and  by  many  transliterators  written) 
uye,  konyitij  and  shiwo. 

IT  15.  /  and  it  are  often  inaudible,  or  nearly  so,  in  the  mouths 
of  natives  of  Tokyo  after/,  h,  k,  5,  sh,  and  is,  as 

pronounced  {ff^' 

„  hto,\ 

,,  waiakshi. 

'  „  taxafi. 

„  gozaimas, 

,,  shta, 

,,  ^s^£. 

*  "Godown"  is  Far-Eastern  English  for  a  store-house  or  ware- 
house.   It  comes  from  the  Malay  word  gddong^  "  a  warehouse.'* 
t  The  h  here  has  the  sound  of  German  ch. 


futatsUy 


'  two,  " 


hito, 

"  person," 

watakushi, 

"  I,  " 

takusan, 

"  much,"  "  many. 

gozazmasu, 

"  there  is, " 

shita, 

"  below, " 

tsukiy 

"  the  moon, " 

VOWEL   PECUUARITIES.  I5 

IT  16.   Initial  u  is  silent,  and  the  following  m  doubled  in  the 
pronunciation  of  the  four  words 
/  umUy  **  a  horse,"  pronounced  mnta.  ^ 

umaiy  "  nice,"  ,,  mtnai. 

iimarerUi      **  to  be  born,"  „  mmareru, 

umcy  "  a  plum-tree,"  ,,  mme. 

IT  17.    The  quiescent  vowels  are  distinguished  in  this  work 
by  the  sign  of  short  quantity,  as  hito,  shlta,  takusatiy  uma. 
But  it  should  be  noted  that  the  Japanese  themselves  are 
not  conscious  of  failing  to  pronounce  the  t's  and  u's  in 
question,  and  that  these  letters  often  recover  their  proper 
power   for    the   sake    of  clearness  or  emphasis.     They 
count  in  prosody,  and  are  always  sounded  even  in  or- 
dinary conversation  by  the  natives  of  many  provinces. 
That  is  why  they  are  allowed  to  remain  in  the  translitera- 
tion,   being  generally    written    i    and    u    without   any 
diacritical  mark. 
IT  18.   The  vowel  «,  when  following  sh  or  j,  is  often  mis- 
pronounced as  i  by  the  Tokyo  people,   thus : 
teishi,  for  teishu,  "  a  husband." 
They  are  also  apt  to  mispronounce  yu  as  i,  thus  : 
iki  iox yukiy  **  snow  ;'*  but  this  is  distinctly  vulgar. 
IT  19.    Be  very  careful  to  discriminate  final  e  from  final  i. 
Englishmen  are  often  unintelligible  owing  to  their  con- 
founding such  words  as 
sake,     **  rice-beer;"  and    saki,      "front,"     "before." 
take,     "  a  bamboo  ;  "  ,,       taki^      **  a  waterfall." 
yumcy  "  a  dream  ;  "      ,,       yumi,    "  a  bow." 
H  20.   The  'diphthongs  acy  ai,  ao,  au,  eif  oiy  ui,  call  for  no 
remark,  each  vowel  retaining  its  own  proper  sound,  as  in 
Spanish  or  Italian.     Thus  the  second  syllable  of  kirei, 
"  pretty,"  sounds  nearly  like  the  English  word  "ray  (not 


j6  pronunciation  and  letter-changes. 

like  *'rye");"  kauy  "to  buy,"  sounds  nearly  like  the  English 
"  cow."  In  the  case  of  verbs  ending  in  aw,  such  as  kau, 
"to  buy;"  morau,  "to  receive;"  shitagau,  "to  follow,"  it 
is  indeed  optional  to  pronounce  the  letter  au  like  a  long  6, 
But  this  is  more  characteristic  of  Western  Japanese  than 
of  Tokyo  usage. 
IT  21.  The  vulgar  in  Tokyo  say  ai  for  acy  and  oi  for  oe ;  thus 
mai,  instead  of  "wa^,  "before;"  koi  (which  means  "love"), 
instead  of  koe,  "  voice."  They  also  often  contract  ai  into 
a  long  if  as  narane  for  naranai,  "  it  won't  do."  But  this 
is  as  bad  as  the  dropping  of  the  letter  h  by  cockneys. 

IT  22.  lu  is  pronounced  like  yu^  e.g.  tM,       "  to  say." 
Om  ,,  ,,  „      o,     ,,     owoM, "  to  think." 

N.  B.  It  is  customary  to  write  the  present  tense  of  certain  verbs 
with  a  final  on  rather  than  with  o,  in  order  to  show  the  original  and 
theoretical  conformity  of  these  verbs  to  the  general  rule  whereby  the 
present  tense  must  always  end  in  u, 

H  23.  The  consonants  are  pronounced  approximately  as  in 
English,  subject  to  the  following  remarks  : — 

F  is  a  true  labial,  not  the  English  labio-dental ;  that  is 
to  say,  it  is  formed  by  means  of  the  lips  alone,  not,  as  our 
/  is,  by  placing  the  upper  teeth  on  the  lower  lips. 

G  never  has  the  sound  of  j.  At  the  beginning  of  a 
word  it  is  pronounced  hard,  like  the  g  in  "  give."  In 
the  middle  of  a  word  it  has  the  sound  of  English  ng  in 
"  longing."  Thus  Kiga,  the  name  of  a  place  near  Mfya- 
noshita,  rhymes  almost  exactly  with  "singer."  (Not  with 
".  finger,"  where  the  ng  does  double  duty,  first  to  render  the 
sound  o^  ngf  and  then  the  sound  of  ^  alone.  This  double 
sound  is  represented  in  Japanese  by  the  combination  ng, 
^  ^..^^M  as  kin-gin,  "gold  and  silver,"  pronounced  king-gin), 
^  ,^..  Foreigners  often  err  in  pronouncing  such  words  as  Kiga 
like  King-ga,  and  kago,  "  a  palanquin,"  like  kang-go,  etc. 


CONSONANTS,  IJ 

N.  B.  In  Western  Japan,  g  retains  its  hard  pronunciation  in  all 
situations.  .  . 

Hi,  or  father  the  syllable  hi,  has  a  tendency  to  pass 
into  shi,  and  even  into  simple  5//,  especially  in  the  mouths 
of  the  vulgar  of  Tokyo,  who  pronounce,  for  instance,  the 
word  hige,  *'beard,"  asshige,  and  hito,  **  person,"  as  shto. 
Careful  Japanese  speakers  attempt  (not  always  success- 
fully) to  avoid  this  errOr. 

iV  final  is  pronounced  half-way  between  a  true  n  and  the 
French  nasal  «. 

R  is  the  very  softest  of  English  r's,  and  is  never  rolled 
or  gargled  as  in  French  and  German. 

ir  24.  W  (pronounced  exactly  as  in  English)  shows  so 
strong  a  tendency  to  become  obsolete  after  ^  and  ^,  not 
only  in  Tokyo,  but  in  most  parts  of  the  country  excepting 
the  West,  that  it  is  optional  to  write,  for  instance,  kwa- 
shi  or  kashi,  "  cake ;"  Gwaimusho  or  Gaimusho,  **  the 
Foreign  Office."  Even  between  two  vowels,  as  in  omo- 
(w)anai,  **  I  do  not  think  ;"  kama(w)anai,  "  it  does  not 
matter,"  many  natives  of  Tokyo  drop  it.  In  the  present 
work  the  w  has  been  retained  in  all  such  cases,  in  order 
to  conform  to  the  usage  of  Dr.  Hepburn's  dictionary. 
Frenchmen,  Germans,  and  other  Continentals  are  apt 
to  sound  a  v  instead  of  a  w.  This  bad  habit  should  be 
carefully  guarded  against. 

Y  is  always  a  consonant.  Thus  the  syllable  mya  in 
myaku,  "  the  pulse,"  is  pronounced  as  one  syllable,  like 
mia  in  the  English  word  **  amiable."  Care  must  be  taken 
not  to  confound  it  with  the  dissyllable  fniya  in  such 
words  as  miyako  {7ni-ya.-ko),  "  a  capital  city." 

Zy  when  preceding  the  vowel  w,  has  the  sound  of  dz, 
and  is  accordingly  so  written  by  many  transliterators, 


X8  PRONUNCIATION   AND   LETTER-CHANGES. 

as  midzUf  for  mizu,  **  water."  We  write  z  in  this  work, 
rather  than  dz^  somewhat  against  our  personal  preference, 
and  merely  in  order  to  conform  to  the  usage  of  the 
dictionary.     (Conf.  foot-note  to  p.  21.) 

H  25.  Double  consonants  must,  as  in  Italian,    be   sharply 
distinguished  from  single  ones,  thus : 
amuy  **  a  nun ;"       amma,        .  "  a  shampooer." 

ichi,    "  one  ;"  itchif  (for  ichi-chi)^  **  union." 

oto,     *<  a  sound  ;"    ottOf  **  a  husband." 

Where,  however,  no  confusion  is  liable  to  ensue,  the 
natives  of  Tokyo  often  pronounce  as  double  a  consonant 
which  is  properly  single,  thus  : 

ammarif         -     for      antariy  "  too  much." 

minna,  „       minaj  "all." 

sakki,  „       saki,  **  before." 

But  this  is  slightly  vulgar. 

^I.  B.  Notice  that  only  the  following  consonants  are  liable  to  re- 
duplication :  ch(tch),  kf  m,  n,  p,  5,  sh{ssh)j  and  ts  {tts), 

f\  26.  All  Japanese  words  theoretically  end  either  in  a  vowel 
or  in  the  consonant  n.  But  the  fact  of  the  occasional 
quiescence  of  i  and  u  produces  the  impression  that  there 
are  words  ending  in  other  consonants.  Thus  the  polite 
termination  masu  (e.g.  in  arimasuy  "  there  is")  mostly 
sounds  like  mas,  excepting  in  the  mouths  of  unusually 
careful  or  old-fashioned  speakers.  .In  no  other  case  is  the 
clipping  of  final  vowels  to  be  recommended. 

ACCENT. 

If  27.  Generally  speaking,  the  Japanese  pronunciation  both 
of  vowels  and  of  consonants  is  less  broad  and  heavy  than 
that  current  in  most  European  languages,  and  especially 
in  English.  Particularly  noticeable  is  the  manner  in  which 


ACCENT.  19 

chy  jj  shy  and  ts  are  minced.  Tones,  such  as  those  of  the 
Chinese,  are  entirely  absent.  There  is  little  or  no  tonic 
accent,  and  only  a  very  slight  rhetorical  accent ;  that  is  to 
say  that  all  the  syllables  of  a  word  and  all  the  words  of  a 
sentence  are  pronounced  equally,  or  nearly  so.  Students 
must  beware  of  importing  into  Japanese  the  strong  and 
constantly  recurring  stress  by  which,  in  English  and  in 
mpst  European  languages,  one  syllable  in  every  polysyl- 
labic word,  and  the  chief  words  in  every  sentence,  are  sin- 
gled out  for  special  notice.  Thus,  to  quote  the  names  of 
places  familiar  to  every  traveller  in  Japan,  you  must  arti- 
culate HakonCy  Miyanoshitaj  Ashinoyu,  with  every  sylla- 
ble equal  (excepting  the  I  of  Miyanoshita,  which  quiesces), 
thus:  Ha-ko-ne,  Mi-ya-no-shtay  A-shi-no-yu,  all  short  and 
all  without  emphasis.  Europeans  excruciate  Japanese 
ears  when  they  say  Hakdne,  Miyanoshfa,  and  AsIiinSyu, 
Only  occasionally,  among  the  lower  classes,  does  the 
desire  for  exceptional  emphasis  cause  a  word  or  syllable 
to  be  accented  in  a  peculiarly  declamatory  manner,  which 
Europeans  find  difficulty  in  imitating.  The  strength  of  the 
entire  body  seems  to  be  concentrated  on  the  production, 
on  the  laborious  squeezing  out, 'of  the  word  in  question. 

N.  B.  The  statement  made  in  the  above  paragraph  concerning 
the  absence  of  accent  in  Japanese  is  intended  rather  for  purposes  of 
practical  instruction  than  of  scientific  accuracy.'  There  is  a  slight 
tonic  accent  in  Japanese.  But  so  extremely  slight  is  it,  that  it  has 
never  been  marked  in  any  dictionary  whether  native  or  foreign,  it  has 
no  influence  on  prosody,  it  varies  from  province  to  province,  and 
inhabitants  of  the  same  province  contradict,  not  only  each  other  but 
themselves,  in  their  usage  and  in  the  explanations  which  they  give 
concerning  it.  Most  of  the  Tokyo  people  distinguish  by  a  faint 
difference  of  stress  such  pairs  of  words  as 
dm£t     "  rain  ;  "  ame,     •'  a  kind  of  sweetmeat." 

hashif  "  chopsticks  ;  "  hashiy  "  a  bridge." 


20  PRONUNCIATION   AND    LETTER-CHANGES. 

kakif    **  an  oyster ;  "  kaki^     *'  a  persimmon." 

koto,    *'  a  sort  of  harp  ;  "  koto,     "  a  thing." 

kumOj  *'  a  spider  ;  "  kumo,   '•  a  cloud." 

take,  *•  a  mountain-peak  ;  "  take,  "  a  bamboo." 
The  difference  between  such  words  may  be  compared, — not  in  kind, 
but  in  degree, — with  that  made  by  some  English  speakers  between 
"morning"  and  "mourning,"  or  between  the  verb  "to  advocate"  and 
the  substantive  "  an  advocate."  The  interest  of  the  question  is  rather 
for  the  theoretical  than  for  the  practical  student.  The  tendency  of 
Englishmen,  and  indeed  of  all  Europeans  excepting  Frenchmen, 
is  always  to  accentuate  Japanese  much  too  strongly.  New-comers 
cannot  do  better,  at  least  for  the  first  few  years,  than  endeavour  not 
to  accentuate  it  at  alt. 

LETTER-CHANGES. 

1i  28.  Nigori,  i.e.  "  muddling,*'  is  the  name  given  by  the 
Japanese   to   the   substitution   of  sonant  consonants  for 
'  surds.*     The  consonants  affected  change  as  follows  : — 

Surds.  Sonants, 

ch) 
sh\ 


H  into  y.+ 


*  In  contradistinction  to  the  sonant  letters,  the  surd  letters  are 
said  to  be  sumi,  i.e.  "  clear," — t,  k,  s,  etc.,  sounding  purer  to  the 
Japanese  ear  than  d,  g,  z,  etc.  The  two  categories  together  are 
termed  sei-daku  by  the  native  grammarians,  sei  being  the  Chinese 
word  for  "  clear,"  and  daku  for  "  muddled." 

t  In  Western  Japan,  where  the  rules  and  analogies  of  the  ancient 
language  have  been  more  faithfully  preserved  than  in  the  present 
capital,  the  nigori  of  ch  is  pronounced  like  English  j,  and  the  nigori 
olsh  like  the  softer  French  j  ;  thus  fuji,  "  the  wistaria  "  (hard),  but 
Fuji,  "Fusiyama"  (soft).  The  Tokyo  pronunciation  ignores  this 
delicate  distinction,  and  has  English  j  (but  just  a  trifle  softer)  for  both 
alike. 


THE   NIGORI.  21 

Surds.  Sonants, 

k  into  g. 

t  „  d. 

N.  B.  F  and  H  are  almost  certainly  corruptions  of  an  earlier/, 
the  surd  naturally  corresponding  to  the  sonant  b. 

The  broad  law  governing  the  use  of  the  nigori  is  that 
the  initial  surd  (cA,  shy  /,  h,  k,  s,  ^5,  or  t)  of  an  in- 
dependent word, — especially  of  a  noun, — changes  into 
the  corresponding  sonant  (j,  6,  g,  z,  or  d)  when  the  word 
is  used  as  the  second  member  of  a  compound.  The 
law  affects,  n^t  native  words  itoly,  but  likewise  those 
borrowed  from  the  Chinese,  thus  : — 

rydri-iayUy  **  an  eating-house  ;  '*  from  ryori,  ** cookery," 

and  chaya,  **  a  tea-house." 
shima-iima,  ** various  islands;"  from  shfwa,    "an  is- 
land," repeated. 
yane-hune,  **  a  house-boat ;  "  from>'a«^,  **  a  roof,"  and 

funCy  "a  vessel." 
hi'hachi,  **  a  brazier;"  from /if,  fire,"  and  hachiy  "a 

pot." 
ki-gacj  "a  change  of  clothes;  "  from  the  indefinite  forms 

of  the   verbs   kiru,   **  to  wear,"    and  ImaerUf   **  to 

change." 
kaku-zatOj  "  loaf  sugar ;  "  from  kaku,  *'  an  angle,"  and 

satOf  **  sugar." 

*  In  the  Western  provinces  (following  ancient  usage),  the  nigori  of 
s  is  Zj  while  the  nigori  of  ts  is  dz ;  thus  mizuj  "not  seeing,"  but 
midzu^  "water."  In  Tokyo  these  two  sounds  are  confounded,  both 
being  alike  prononced  as  dz,    Conf.  the  end  of  %  24. 


aa  PRONUNCIATION   AND  LETTER-CHANGES. 

tsuki-zue,  **  the  end  of  the  month;  "  {romtsnki,  "moon," 
"month,"  and  sue,  "end." 

kwan-zume^  "tinned  (provisions);"  from  kwan,  a  Chin- 
ese word  meaning  a  "jar"  or  "gallipot,"  but  not 
used,  alone  in  Japanese,  and  the  indefinite  form  of 
the  verb  tBumeru,  "  to  pack." 

6rai-dome,  "no  thoroughfare;"  from  orai^  "a 
thoroughfare,"  and  the  indefinite  form  of  the 
verb  tomerUy  "  to  stop"  (trans.). 

H  2g.  A  rider  to  the  above  law  is  that/ and  h  in  Chinese 
compounds    sometimes    change,    not    into  b,  but  into 
p.     This   is   called  the  han-nigori  or  "half-muddling." 
Thus — to  take  somewhat  high-flown  instances — 
jum-'pu,  "  a  fair  wind  ;  "  from  jw«,  "  to  accord,"  and  ftl, 
"wind."     (These  monosyllables  are  not  used  in- 
dependently in  Japanese.) 
tetn-'pen,  " a  sign  in  the  heavens  ;  "  from  ten,  "heaven," 
and  hen,  "  change.'' 
IF  30.  In  some  words  of  native  origin,  the  Tokyo  people,  led 
by  the  same  love  of  reduplication  which  makes  them  say 
minna  for  mina,  "all,"  tokkuri  iov  tokuri,    "a  bottle," 
etc.  (see  IF.  25),  turn  the  letter  h,  which  it  would  not  be 
easy  to  double,  into  what  appears  to  them  to  be   the 
nearest  approach  to  hh,  viz,  pp  ;  thus : 
yappari,  for  yahari,  "  also." 
yoppodoy  ,,  yohodo,  "  a  lot,"  "  very." 

N.B.  Perhaps  it  might  be  more  correct  to  view  this  phenomenon 
as  a  relic  of  the  old  pronunciation  of  h  as  /.  Conf.  the  N.B.  near  the 
top  of  ^.  21. 

IT  31.  The  law  regulating  the  use  of  the  nigori  is  by  no 
means  an  absolute  one,  euphony  and  sometimes  the 
varying    caprice    of  individuals   deciding   in   each  case 


LESSER   LETTER-CHANGES.  43 

whether  the  change  shall  or  shall  not  take  place.  Thus 
o,  "great,"  and  saka,  **  a  hill,"  compounded  to  form  the 
name  of  a  large  town  in  Central  Japan,  may  be  pro- 
nounced either  Ozaka  or  Osaka  (never  Osdrkur,  as 
Englishmen  are  apt  to  say).  F  and  A,  however,  always 
change  either  into  b  or  into  />,  if  the  first  member  of  the 
compound  ends  in  a  nasal  consonant.  Thus  it  would  be 
inadmissible  to  say  jum-/u  for  jum-pu. 

It  is  considered  harsh  to  have  many  7iigori*ed  letters 
in  one  word.  Hence  kaza-kamiy  "  windward,"  never 
kaza-gami,  and  similarly  in  innumerable  like  instances. 
Observe,  too,  that  no  nigorV  ed  letter  is  ever  doubled. 

IF  32.  As  shown  by  the  examples  of  jum-pu  and  tem-peny  n 

changes  to  tn  before  a  labial.     To  give  another  instance  : 

tem-mon-gaku"  "  astrology  "  **  astronomy ;  "  from  ten, 

"  heaven ; "  tnon,  **  markings  or  letters  "  (not  used  alone) ; 

and  gakUy  "science." 

IT  33.  Less  important  than  the  nigori  affecting  initial  con- 
sonants, is  a  change  which  affects  the  final  vowels  in 
certain  native  Japanese  words  of  one  syllable  and  two 
syllables.  In  this  class  of  words,  e  final  often  changes 
to  a,  when  the  word  is  used  as  the  first  member  of  a 
compound,*  thus : 

kazsk-kami,  "  windward  ;  '*  from  kaze,  "wind,"  and  kami, 

"above." 
sak^k-yuy   "a  grog-shop;"   from  sake,  " rice-beer,"  and 

ya,  "  a  house." 

*  Strictly  speaking,  it  is  a  which  is  weakened  into  ^,  a  study  of  the 
older  language  showing  that  the  forms  in  a  are  almost  certainly  the 
original  ones.  We  state  the  rule  as  in  the  text  simply  for  practical 
convenience. 


24  PRONUNCIATION    AND    LETTER-CHANGES. 

tQ,motsitf  **  to  keep ;  "  from  ^e,  "  the  hand,"  and  motsu,  to 

hold." 
uw9k-gi,  "an  over-coat;"  from  t*e,  **  top,"  and  the  in- 
definite form  of  kirUf  "  to  put  on,"  **  to  wear." 
As  an   irregular  member  of  the  same  class  may   be 
mentioned  shira  for  shiroy  the  stem  of  the  adjective  shi- 
roi,  "white,"  in  such  compounds  as 
shirdk-gikti,  "  a  white  chrysanthemum."     (fire^w  =  "  chry- 
santhemum.") 
shirK-ga,  *'  white  hair."  {Ga  here  stands  for  ke,  "  hair." 
The  language  offers  no  other  instance  of  so  anoma- 
lous a  change.) 
IT  34.  All  the  Japanese  consonants  do  not  admit  of  being 
sounded  before  all  the  five  Japanese  vowels.      F  only 
occurs  before  the  vowel  w,  the  other  four  vowels  taking  h 
instead.  S  is  replaced  by  sh,  and  z  by  j,  before  the  vowel  i, 
T  is  replaced  by  ch^  and  d  by  j,  before  the  vowel  i ;  t 
is  replaced   by  <s,  and  d  by  z,  before  the  vowel  u.     W 
occurs   only  before  the  vowel  a  ;  y  only  before  the  vowels 
a,   0   and  m.      The   only  exceptions,  according   to   the 
orthography  adopted  in  this  work,  are  those  offered  by 
the  postpositions  wo  and  j^.     Compare,  however,  IF  14. 

N.  B.  The  phenomena  mentioned  in  this  paragraph  seem  to  be  of 
comparatively  modern  growth,  though  they  can  be  traced  back 
some  three  centuries.  The  archaic  form  of  the  language  probably 
had  only/  (or  rather  p),  5,  and  ^  but  no  6,  A,  5^,7,  ch^  is  or  z. 

To  the  practical  student  the  peculiarity  above  noted  is 
interesting  only  in  so  far  as  it  affects  the  conjugation  of 
verbs.  He  is  therefore  referred  to  Chapter  VIII,  I1  235 
et,  seq.  It  may,  however,  be  worth  while  to  instance  in 
passing  the  strange  alterations  introduced  into  borrowed 
European  words  by   this   inability  of  the  Japanese  to 


EUROPEAN   y/GBLDS. 


25 


pronounce  certain  consonants  before  certain  vowels,  by 
their  further  inability  to  pronounce  combinations  of  con- 
sonants or  any  final  consonant  except  w,  and  by  the 
absence  from  their  language  of  some  of  the  commonest 
European  sounds,  such  as  I  and  v.  Hence  such 
metamorphoses  as  the  following : — 


berumottOf  from  "  ver- 
mouth." 

chi/usu,  from  the  Ger- 
man pronunciation  of 
**  typhus." 

garasu,  from  "  glass." 
hoko,         „     "  fork." 
Igirisu,     „     "  English." 
kame,  from  "  come  here." 

(Dogs^  of  European  race  are  so 
styled,  because  their  masters  constant- 
ly call  out  "come  herel"  to  them.) 

kara,  from  "  collar." 


kasuteirUy  from  "  Castilla." 

(Sponge-cake  is  so  called,  because 
introduced  by  the  Spaniards.) 

koppu,  from  the  Dutch  kop, 
"a  cup,"  but  used  to 
signify  "  a  glass." 

penshirUy  from  **  pencil." 
rampu,  „  **lamp." 

ramune,        „  "  lemonade." 
shafsuy        •  „  "  shirt." 
zentorumen,  „  "  gentlemen.' 


There  are  also  some  quite  anomalous  cases,  such  as 
penkif  from  "  paint,"  where  we  should  have  expected 
peinto, 
IF  35.  Finally  certain  contractions  are  brought  about  by 
euphony  and  the  desire  for  speedy  elocution.  Such  are 
ip-pun  for  ichi  fun,  "  one  minute ;  "  jis-so,  for  ju  so, 
"  ten  vessels."  For  these  the  student  is  referred  to  the 
Chapter  on  Numerals,  ^  153,  as  it  is  in  the  case  of  the 
numerals  that  these  contractions  most  frequently  occur, 
and  that  it  is  most  necessary  to  commit  them  to  memory. 


CHAPTER    III. 

The  Noun. 


NUMBER  AND    GENDER. 

H  36.  The  noun  is  indeclinable,  distinctions  of  number  and 
gender  being  left  to  be  gathered  from  the  context,  and 
case  relations  being,  as  in  English,  indicated  by  separate 
words,  which  are,  however,  "  postpositions,"  not  preposi- 
tions.    Thus 

Uma  /fti     noru 

lit,        horge      4m      ride 

may  mean,  according  to  circumstances,  to  ride  on  one 

horse  or  on  several  horses,  on  one  mare  or  on  several 

mares. 

Hito  ga  kimashtta 

lit,        per§p»  {nominative  particle)  hm$-e0me 

may  mean  either  that  one  person  has  come,  or  that 
several  people  have  come.  Similarly  the  word  yama 
may  designate  one  mountain  or  many  mountains,  it 
being  properly  rather  a  kind  of  collective  noun,  like  the 
German  **  das  Gebirg." 

IF  37.  In  the  extremely  rare  cases  in  which  it  is  absolutely 
indispensable  to  mention  the  sex  of  an  animal,  this  can 
be  done  by  the  use  of  the  prefixes  o,  **  male,"  and  me^ 
"female,"  the  resulting  compound  being  sometimes 
slightly  modified  by  euphony.     Thus  : 

ushiy        **  any  bovine  animal." 

O'Ushi,     "a  bull,"  **an  ox." 

me-tiskiy  "  a  cow." 

iima,       **any  equine  animal." 


GENDER. 

omma, 

•*a  horse." 

memma^ 

"a  mare." 

tori, 

"a  bird/*  "a  fowl." 

ondorif 

"a  cock." 

27 


mendori,  "a  hen."^ 

The  words  0/0^0,  "  man,"  and  osu,  "  male ; "  onna, 
"  woman,"  and  m^sw,  **  female,"  subserve  the  same  pur- 
pose, thus : 

ko,  <*a  child  ;"o^o^o  no  koy  " a  boy ;"  o«na  «o  ko,  **  a  girl." 

•MAM    *M  ehiid  mmmaM.  '«  ehiid 

osunoinu,    l.^dog;" 
iuu,  "  any  canine  animal ;  "  ■  ^^^  ^^  ^^f'  ^ 

,mw  «o  mesuy) 
Such  a  phrase  as 

V     Osu  desu  ka,  mesu  desk  ka  ?  \     "  Is   it    a    male    or  a 
•««#«    o     f  femate   u     ?       (female  ? " 

may  mean  "  Is  it  a  horse  or  a  mare  ?"  **  Is  it  a  gander 
or  a  goose?"  "Is  it  a  he  or  a  she-ass  ?"  etc.,  etc.,  ac- 
cording to  circumstances.  The  words  osu  and  mesu  are 
never  applied  to  human  beings,  whereas  the  words  otoko 
and  onna  are  applied  indifferently  to  human  beings  and 
to  other  living  creatures. 

IT  38.  In  a  very  few  cases,  chiefly  the  names  of  the  degrees 
of  relationship,  the  sexes  are  distinguished  by  the  use 
of  different  words,  thus : 

chichi,     "father;"  haha,       "mother." 

otottsan,  "  papa ;  "  okkasan,*^  mamma." 

ojiisan,  "grandpapa,"  obdsan,   "grandmamma," 

" an  old  gentleman  ;  "  "an  old  lady." 

oji,  "  uncle ; "  aba,         "  aunt." 


28  THE   NOUN. 

anif    **  elder  brother  ;  "        anCt      **  elder  sister." 
ototo,  "  younger  brother ;  "  imoto,  "  younger  sister." 

^  39'  What  we  call  the  singular  number  is  occasionally 
indicated  by  the  use  of  the  word  hitotsu  ov4chiy  "  one," 
thus : 

hako  hitotsu  J  "  one  box." 

^  ichi-netiy  "  one  year." 

H  40.  The  idea  of  plurality,  universality,  or  variety  is  oc- 
casionally indicated  by  doubling  the  word,  thus  : 
ho-hoy       **  everywhere ; "  from  ho,     **  a  side." 
iro-iro,     "all  sorts;"       from  irOy    "  a  sort "  (properly 

"  a  colour  "). 
kuni-gunif  "various  countries ;"  from  kunij  "a  country." 
tokorO'dokoro,     **many  places,"     **here  and  there;" 
from  tokorOy  "a  place." 

As  exemplified  in  these  words,  the  second  member  of 
such  compounds  almost  always  takes  the  nigori,  when  it 
begins  with  a  consonant  capable  of  so  doing. 

IF  41.  Another  method  of  expressing  plurality  is  by  agglu- 
tinating certain  particles,  viz.  gafUy  tachiy  shu  (often  pro- 
nounced shi)y  domOy  and  ra,  to  the  end  of  the  word,  thus : 
okusama-gafay    "ladies;"  from  okusama,     "a  lady," 

"  my  lady." 
shikwan-tachiy    "officials;"  „  shikwatty  "  an  official." 
onna-shUy  "women;"    ,,  o««a,         "  a  woman." 

onna-domo,         "  women  ;  "    ,,  onnay         "  a  woman." 
kuruma-ya-ray    "jinrikisha-men;  "    irom  ^^  kuruma-y a y 

"a  jinrikisha-man." 
The  order  in  which  the  foregoing  particles  and  examples 
are  given  is  that  of  a  gradually   decreasing   politeness. 
There  is,  indeed,  no  great  difference  between  gata  and 


NUMBER.  ag 

tcu^ki,  but  both  are  decidedly  more  polite  than  the  three 
that  follow  them.  Onna-shu  may  be  used  in  speaking  of 
the  female  attendants  of  another  ;  onna-domo  is  better  in 
speaking  of  the  female  attendants  in  one's  own  house- 
hold.    The  suffix  ra  is  decidedly  contemptuous. 

H  42.  Numerous  as  are  the  above  p^irticles,  the  idea  of 
plurality  is  not  always  very  clearly  expressed  even  by 
their  help.  Thus,  whereas  ko  may  mean  **  children*'  as 
well  as  **  child,"  the  ostensibly  plural  form  ko-domo  may 
mean  "child"  as  well  as  "children."  In  this  particular 
instance,  but  scarcely  in  any  others,  we  may,  in  order  to 
get  an  undoubted  plural,  superadd  one  suffix  to  another, 
and  say  ko-domo-ra  or  ko-domo-shUy  "  children." 

IT  43.  We  may  also  (chiefly  in  vocables  borrowed  from  the 
.  Chinese)  prefix  certain  words  in  order  to  obtain  a  sort 
of  plural ;  thus  : 
ban-koku,  **  all  countries,"  **  international ;  "  from  6a«, 

"ten  thousand,"  and  koku,  "a  country." 
sho-kun,    "  gentlemen  ; "   from    shOj    "  all,"    and   kuftt 

"prince,"    "Mr." 
su-nen,  "  many  years  ;  "  from  sii,  "  number,"  and  nen, 
"a  year." 

N.  B.     None  of  the  Chinese  words  here  given — ban^  koku^  sho, 
etc. — can  be  used  alone.    They  occur  only  in  compounds.  ■    \ 

H  44.  But  though  the  ways  of  indicating  sex  and  number 
are  thus  various,  it  cannot  be  sufficiently  borne  in  mind 
that  they  are  all  more  or  less  exceptional,  and  are  scarce- 
ly found  except  in  a  comparatively  small  number  of  cases 
which  are  sanctioned  by  usage.  Distinctions  of  sex 
and  even  of  number  are  not  dwelt  on  at  every  moment 
by  the  Japanese,  as  they  are  by  the  European,  mind. 


30  THE  NOUN. 

COMPOUND  NOUNS. 

IF  45.  Compound  nouns  are  very  numerous  and  can  be  form- 
ed at  will.  They  generally  consist  either  of  two  nouns, 
or  of  a  noun  preceded  or  followed  by  the  stem  of  an 
adjective  or  by  the  **  indefinite  form*'  (see  H  221,  and 
II  241)  of  a  verb.  As  the  indefinite  forms  of  verbs  are 
themselves  constantly  used  as  nouns,  two  such  forms  may 
combine  to  constitute  a  compound  noun,  or  else  one  of 
them  may  be  preceded  by  a  noun  or  by  an  adjective  stem 
for  the  same  purpose.  The  following  are  specimens  of 
the  various  sorts  of  compound  nouns : — 
furO'ha,  "a  bath-room  ; "  iromfuro,  "  a  bath,"  and  ba 

(used  only  in  composition),  "  a  place.** 
te-bukuro,  **  gloves ;  *'  from  te,  "  the  hand,'*  and  fukuro, 

"a  bag.'* 
tetsudo'basha,    "  a  street-car ; '*    from  tetsudo,  **  a  rail- 
way," and  basha,  **a  carriage." 

kuro-megane,  "  black  goggles  ;  "  from  kuroi,  **  black," 
and  meganCf  **  spectacles."  (Megane  is  itself  a 
compound  of  me,  "eye,"  and  kane,  "metal.") 

to-tnegane,  "  a  telescope ;  "  from  toi,  "  far,"  and  megane, 
**  spectacles." 

me-kurUf  "  a  blind  person,"  lit.  "  dark  of  eyes  ;  "  from 
me,  "  the  eye,"  and  kurai,  "  dark.'* 

kai-mono,  "  a  purchase,"  "  shopping;  "  from  kau,  "  to 

buy,"  and  mono,  *•  a  thing." 
kake-mono,    "a  hanging    scroll,"    from    kakeru,    "to 

hang"  (trans.),  and  mono,  "  a  thing." 
yake-do,  "  a  burn  ;  '*  from  yakeru,  "  to  burn  *'  (intrans.), 

and  to  (for  tokoro),  "  a  place." 


COMPOUND   UOUNS.  3I 

ki'Chigaiy  "  a  lunatic  ;  "  from  ki,  **  spirit,"  and  chigaUy 

**  to  differ." 
mono-okif  **an  out-house  ;  "  from  monoy  **  a  thing,*'  and 

oku,  "to  put,'* 

te-nugui,  «a  towel ; "  from  te,  "  the  hand,"  and  nuguu^ 
"to  wipe." 

haki-dame,  "a  dust  heap;"  from  haku,  " to  sweep," 
and  tameru,  "  to  collect  together"  (trans.). 

hiki-dashiy  "a  drawer  ;  "  from  hiku,  "  to  pull,"  and  dasu, 
"  to  take  out." 

make-oshimi^  "reasons  trumped  up  to  excuse  one's 
own  failure  "  (as  by  the  fox  in  the  fable,  who  said 
that  "  the  grapes  were  sour  ") ;  from  makeru,  "  to 
be  defeated,"  and  oshimu,  "  to  regret." 

naga-iki,  "  longevity,"  from  nagai,  "  long,"  and  ikiru, 
"  to  live." 

N.  B.  Observe  the  tendency  of  the  second  member  of  the  com- 
pound to  take  the  nigori  (Conf.  IT  28.) 

ir  46.  The  forms  indicating  gender  and  some  of  those  in- 
dicating number  are  really  compounds,  as  will  be  seen  by 
reference  to  If  37  and  II  43.  So  are  the  augmentatives 
formed  by  prefixing  0,  the  root  of  okii,  "  big,"  and  the 
diminutives  formed  by  prefixing  ko^  "  child  "  (very  rarely 
Of  "small "),  thus: 

baka,       "  a  fool ;  "         d-baka,       "  a  great  fool." 
ishif        "  a  stone  ;  "      ko-ishi,       "  a  pebble." 
nezumij  "  a  rat ; "  o-nezumi,  "  a  large  rat ;  " 

ko-nezumi,  "  a  small  rat,"  "  a  mouse." 

N.  B.  The  names  of  the  young  of  animals  are  formed  by  means 
of  kOj  not  by  prefixing  it  as  a  particle,  but  by  using  it  as  a  separate 
word,  thus: 


32  THE   NOUN. 

mukade    no     ko^    \  .      ,    ., 

lit.    eenHpede  ',  eMM,\  *'  ^  y®""^  centipede." 

^  47.  Sometimes,  however,  the  two  members  of  the  com- 
pound are  co-ordinated,  thus : 
tsuki-hi,  "  months  (and)  days." 

so-moku,  **  herbs  (and)  trees..'*     (This  is  a  Chinese  com- 
pound, the  component  parts  of  which  are  not  used 
alone.) 
But  though  they  are  closely  joined  in  pronunciation, 
there  would  be  no  harm  in  considering  these  as  separate 
words,  and  in  so   writing  them,  especially   if  they  are 
native  Japanese  terms,  thus : 

ani  ototOy  **  elder  brother  (and)  younger  brother,"  i.e., 
"  brothers." 
ane  imotOy    "elder   sister  (and)  younger  sister,"   i.e., 
"^    **  sisters." 

umi  kawa,  "  (the)  sea  (and  the)  rivers." 

hi  tsuki  hoshiy  **(the)  sun,  moon,  (and)  stars." 

IT  48.  Such  co-ordination  sometimes  assumes  a  peculiar 
form,  which  has  been  aptly  jatamed  "the  synthesis  of 
contradictories,"  because  from  two  terms  of  opposite 
signification  there>  results  a  third  abstract  term  giving 
the  mean  of  the  two,  thus  : 

en-kiuy       "  far-near,"  i.e.,  "  distance." 

kan-datiy    "cold-heat,"  i.e.,  "temperature." 

nati'jiyoy    "  man-woman,"      i.e.,  "  sex." 
sei'Suiy  "prosperity-decline,"  i.e.,  "  the  ups  and  downs," 
"  the  fortunes,"  of  a  family,  kingdom,  &c. 

The  above  are  Chinese  vocables.    As  Japanese  examples, 

though  not  nouns,  we  may  take 


PECULIARITIES   OF    COMPOUNDS.  33 

.     Yv    M  / 

y    aru^nashi,    **  is-isnV'    i-e.,    "the   question  of  the  ex- 
istence of  a  thing.'* 
yoshi-ashiy    "  good-bad,"    i.e.,    "  quality,"  "  degree   of 

excellence." 
The  use  of  these  convenient  expressions,  which  is  bor- 
rowed from  Chinese  graminar,  is  chiefly  confined  to  per- 
sons of  education. 

^  49.  The  student  should  note  the  difference  in  construction 
between  genuine  native  compounds  and  those  borrowed 
.  from  the  Chinese,  when  one  member  of  the  compound  is 
a  verb  governing  the  other.     In  genuine  Japanese  com- 
pounds the  verb  comes  last,  as  in  English,  tlrus : 

hara-kiri,   "belly-cutting,"   the   old  form  of  legalised 
suicide.     / 

^awi-AasaAwe,  "hair-cutting."   (//a5awM=" to  cut  with 
scissors.") 

In  Chinese  compounds,  on  the  contrary,  the  verb  comes 
•  first.     Take,  for  instance,  the  elegant  Chinese  synonyms 
for  hara-kiri  and  kami-hasami,    which  are  preferred  by 
cultured  speakers,  viz. 
sep-pukuy  from  setsu,  "to  cut,"  and/fi^M,  "belly." 
zani'patsuy  ,,     zatiy    "  to  cut,"    „     /la/sM,  "  hair." 
N.  B.     Hyphens  need  not  be  used  so  freely  as  we,  for  etymological 
purposes,  have  here  done.    A  hyphen  is,  however,  indispensable  be- 
tween the  two  members  of  such  compounds  as  gen-an,  **  the  draft  of  a 
document,"  where  a  final  n  is  followed  by  an  initial  vowel.     In  such 
examples  as  genan  (from  ge  and  »a«),  "  a  man-servant,"  the  hyphen 
should  be  omitted.     The  distinction  between  such  pairs  of  words  as 
gen-an  and  genan  is  strongly  marked  in  pronunciation. 

COMPOSITION    A    GREAT    FACTOR    IN    WORD-BUILDING. 

H  50.  The  student  interested  in  etymology  will  gradually 


34  THE    NOUN. 

discover  that  almost  all  long  Japanese  words  and  many 
short  ones  are  really  compounds,  though  their  composite 
origin  is  often  forgotten  even  by  the  Japanese  themselves. 
Thus  ntichi,  **  a  road,"  is  from  mi,  an  honorific  prefix, 
and  chi,  the  original  word  for  "  road."  Mikado,  "  the 
Imperial  Court,"  hence  "  the  Emperor,"  is  from  the  same 
mi,  and  kado,  **  a  gate*'  (compare  the  "  Sublime  Porte  "  of 
Turkey).  Yane  **  a  roof,"  is  from  7a,  the  original  word  for 
house  (which  we  also  find  in  yashiki,  "  a  mansion ;  kutsu- 
ya,  **  a  boot-maker's  shop,"  etc.),  and  mune,  "  the  breast," 
hence  ^*  the  ridge  of  a  roof."  Kagami,  **  a  mirror,"  is 
from  kage,  "  shadow,"  "  reflection,"  and  miru,  "  to  see." 
Place-names  are  almost  always  compounds  that  can  be 
easily  resolved  into  their  constituent  elements,  as  Yoko- 
hama, "  cross  strand  ;  "  E-do  (Yedo),  **  inlet  door  ;  "  Ara- 
kawa,  **  rough  river  ;  "  0-shima,  **  big  island  ;  Fuji-san, 
"  Fuji  mountain,"  **  Fusiyama  "  (the  etymology  of  Fuji 
is  obscure,  but  probably  the  name  is  of  Aino  origin) ;  Mi- 
ya^-fio^'ShUa,^  **  below^  of  *  Shint6-shrine\"  i.e.  **  beneath 
the  shrine  ;  "  E^-no^-shima^,  "  island^  of^  inlet^"  Simi- 
larly in  the  case  of  surnames,  most  of  which  are  of  geo- 
graphical origin,  being  borrowed  from  the  names  of  the  lo- 
calities where  the  persons  who  first  assumed  them  resided, 
thus  Ko-bayashi,  **  small  forest ;"  P-no^-ue^,  "  above^  of* 
(the)  welP; "  ra'-Ma^a%  **  among'  (the)  rice-fields^;"  Ya- 
ma-da,  ^*  mountain  rice-field,"  etc.  Men's  personal  names, 
answering  to  our  Christian  names,  are  also  nearly  always 
compounds.  Unfortunately  few  of  these  personal  names 
can  be  translated,  founded,  as  they  are,  on  allusions  to 
texts  in  the  Chinese  Classics,  to  feudal  functions  now 
obsolete,  to  cyclical  signs,  and  to  other  difficult  matters. 
Such  names  as  Ta-ro,  "big  male,"  i.e.,  "eldest  son;" 


WORD-BUILDING.  35 

jfi-ro,  "  second  son  ;  '*  Saburo  (for  San-ro)  **  third  son," 
etc.,  are  sufficiently  clear. 

N.B.  For  women's  personal  names,  see  IT  41^8. 
All  Chinese  words  of  more  than  one  character  are  com- 
pounds, e.g.  chawan,  "  a  tea-cup,"  from  cha,  **  tea,"  and 
wan,   **  a  bowl ;  "  senddy   **  a  boatman,"  properly  **  the 
master  of  a  junk,"  from  sen,  "junk,"  "vessel,"  and  ^0 
(wf^ori'ed   to  do),    "head,"    "chief;"     Tokyo  from   to, 
"  east,"  and  kyo,  "  capital  city,"  etc.,  etc. 
^51.  As  shown  in  the  foregoing  examples  oimichi,  "  road," 
and  Mikado,   "  Emperor,"  honorific  prefixes  sometimes 
enter   into   the   actual   formation   of  words.     Generally, 
however,  they  are  felt  to  be  distinct  entities,   and  are 
therefore  written  separately,  as 
•    0  cha,  lit.     "  honourable  tea,"    i.e.,    "tea." 

go  mottomo,       lit.     "  augustly  right,"     i.e.,    "you  are 
quite  right." 

0  mi  ashi,         lit.     "  honourable   august    feet,"     i.e., 
"  your  feet." 

For  further  information  concerning  the  honorifics, 
which  form  so  important  and  all-pervading  an  element  of 
Japanese  speech,  see  Chapter  XI. 

VARIOUS    KINDS    OF   NOUNS. 

I1  52.  Abstract  nouns  expressing  degree  as  well  as  quality 
are  often  derived  from  adjective  stems  by  agglutinating 
the  syllable  sa,  thus  : 


atsusa,  "  heat,"  "  the 
degree  of  heat." 

omoshirosa,      "  fun," 
"  interest,"     "  the 
degree  of  fun." 


samusa,      "  cold,"     "  the 
degree  of  cold."    . 

shirosa,  "whiteness,  "the 
degree  of  whiteness." 


36  THE    NOUN. 

A  tinge  or  soupgon  of  a  quality,  hence  sometimes  the 
actual  quality  itself,  and  even  the  object  possessing  the 
quality,  may  be  denoted  by  the  termination  mi  agglutinat- 
ed to  an  adjective  stem,  thus : 
akamiy        -   "a  tinge  of  red." 
omoshiromiy  "  (a  certain  amount  of)  fun." 
shiromi,        "  a  tinge  of  white,"  "  the  white  of  an  egg.'' 

Atnami     ga       usu\ 


SweeiMeMM  (nom.)   ihin 

gozaimasu, 


It  isn't  quite  sweet  enough." 


H  53.    These  nouns  in  sa  and  mi  must  be  distinguished  from 

the   periphrasis  formed  by  means  of  an  adjective  or  verb 

and   the  word  koto,  <*  (an  abstract) thing,"  **  a  fact,"  "an 

act,"  "  a  state,"  as 

atsui  koto,      "  heat,"  **  the  fact  of  being  hot." 

kitanai  koto,  **  dirtiness,"    **  the  fact  that  something  is 

dirty." 

shiroi  koto,     **  whiteness,"  **  the  fact  that  something  is 

white." 

machigatta    koto,    j**a  mistake,"  **  the  fact  that  some 
lit,     miBiooh      things  (one  has  made  a  mistake." 

shimpo     sum    koto,  f  **  progress  "  (the  noun) ;  also  **  to 

lit.  progreak  maUea  thing,  (progress  "  (the  verb). 

on  wo        shiranai  koto,  ] ,,  :^^^^.u^a^  m 

lit.  UiHdueBB  (accus.  particle)  ignore*  thing,  ]      i"grdututic. 

In  speaking  of  the  blade  of  a  fine  sword,  one  might  say : 

Sono  kissaki  no  surudoi     koto,\ 

lU      point       U      aharp       aiate,         <<  So    sharp     is   its 

sono    yaki    no  uruwashii    koto, 

itM  anneaiing  *§     heautifni       state, 

hito-me  mite    mo    sugu     samusa 
mnemeye  seeing  even,  at^onee  coldnesg 
WO      oboeru     kurai   da. 
(accus.)     feel        amount  is. 


point,     so     fine     its 
^  edge,  that  the  merest 
glance  at  it  gives  you 
a  shiver." 


KOTO   AND    MONO.  J7 

These  periphrases  in  koto  are  often  used  exclamatorily, 
'      thus : 

Atsiii  koto  !        "  Oh  !  how  hot  it  is  !  " 
Kusai  koto  !        "  Oh  !  what  a  horrid  smell !  '* 

IF  54.  Parallel  to  the  abstract  nouns  in  koto^avQ  concrete 
nouns  in  mono.  While  koto  denotes  "  a  thing  of  the 
mind,"  **  a  fact,"  "an  act,*'  7nono  denotes  a  tangible, 
material  thing  or  person,  thus  : 

lit^e^ltTnTiM.,,  ]  "a  b^^  Pl^ce,"  "  an  abscess." 

kusai  mono,        "  a  smelly  thing.*' 
shiroi  mono,        **  a  white  thing. 
shojiki-mono,      **  an  honest  fellow." 

This  distinction  between  koto,  *«  an  abstract  thing,"  and 
mono,  **a  material  thing,"  must  be  clearly  kept  in  mind, 
if  the  student  would  avoid  constant  misapprehension. 
Thus  onaji  mono  means  **  the  same  thing,"  **  the  identi- 
cal article,"  whereas  onaji  koto  means  **the  same  sort  of 
thing," — the  quality,  pattern,  etc.,  being  the  same,  but  the 
actual  article  a  different  one.  For  mono  wo  at  the  end 
of  a  sentence,  see  1i  287. 

Mono  no,  or  to  wa  iu  mono  no,  has  a  very  curious  use, 
whose  origin  is  unknown,  but  which  may  most  easily  be 
parsed  by  assuming  no  to  stand  for  nagara,  "  while,'* 
"  whereas  :  " — 

Rikutsu  de   wa    ko    iu  mono  v 

Theortf  #m  indeed,  thuB  Bay  thing         *^  That  is  all  very  fine 

no,  jissai      wa    yohodo  I  in    theory,    but     it     is 

tehereaBi practice  UB' for,    very      [mighty    hard    in      praC- 

muzukashii.  tice." 

dimenti  (is).  I 


38  THE    NOUN. 

Baku  da  to     wa      iu  mono\ 


foot    iB  that  iudeed^ay  tMug 

no,      shkoshi  no       yd  ni 

triitfle,      tittle      *§    hn»iwe»»       iu 

wa  ma  ni  aimasu. 

indeed^  apace  itt  e^nfonmM, 


**Fool  as  he  is,  he  is 
capable  of  making  him- 
"self    useful    in    minor 
matters." 


IT  55.  The  names  of  shops  are  denoted  by  the  termination 
ya,  "  house/'  as  : 

kon-ya,    **  a  book-store ;  "         from  hon,    **  a  book." 
niku-ya    **  a  butcher's  shop  ;  "  from  nikUf  **  flesh." 
pan-ya,    **  a  bakery ,  "  from  pan,   **  bread." 

Kame-ya,  lit.  **  tortoise  house"  (or,  as  we  might  say, 
**  To  the  Sign  of  the  Tortoise  "),  the  name  of  a  grocery  in 
T5ky6  well-known  to  foreign  residents. 

Owing  to  the  general  Japanese  habit  of  naming  persons 
after  places,  such  words  as  the  above  come  to  denote,  not 
only  the  "book-store,"  the  "butcher's  shop,"  and  the 
"  bakery,"  but  by  extension  the  "  bookseller,"  the  "  but- 
cher," and  the  "baker"  themselves.  Sometimes  indeed 
the  person  only,   and  not  the  place,  is  thus  designated, 

as: 

kuruma-ya,    "  a  jinrikisha-man  " 

shimhun-ya,  "  a  newspaper  man." 

H  56.  Names   of  trees   and  plants   often  terminate  in  ki, 
"  tree,"  or  in  its  nigorVcd  form  gi,  thus  : 

hagi,     "  the  lespedeza." 
mugi,   "  wheat,    "  bar- 


ley." 

stigi,     "  the       crypto- 
meria." 


siisiiki,  "  the  eulalia  "  (a 
kind  of  tall  grass). 

tsuhaki,  "the  camellia- 
tree." 

yanagij     "the    willow- 
tree." 


Names  of  rivers  end  in  kawa  (generally  nigorVed  to 
gawa),  "  river ;  "  names  of  stretches  of  sea  in  nada  ;  those 


AIDA,   HA2U,    TOKI. 


39 


of  islands  in  shima  (often  nigorVed  to  jima);  those  of 
mountains  inyama  or  san  {zan)f  thus : 


Okawa,  lit.  "  Great  River." 
Sumida-gaway  **  the  River 

Sumida." 
Bungo-nada,  the  stretch  of 
sea  near  the  province  of 
Bungo,  separating  the 
islands  of  Kyushu  and 
ShTkoku. 

Kojitna,    lit,    "  Small    Is- 
land," a  name  common 


to  several  islands  off 
the  Japanese  coast. 

Ogasa  war  a  -jima ,  *  *  the 
Bonin  Islands;"  named 
Ogasawara  after  their 
discoverer, 

Asama-yamay  **  Mount 
Asama." 


Bandai'Zan, 
Bandai,'' 


"  Mount 


1^57.  The  nouns  aida,  ** interval;"  hazu,  "necessity;" 
toki,  "time ;  "  and  tokorOy  "  place,"  often  assume,  gram- 
matical functions  perplexing  to  the  beginner.  Aida 
comes  to  correspond  to  our  conjunction  "while,"  hazu  to 
our  verbs  "  ought  "  or  "should,"  ioki  to  our  conjunction 
"v^rhen,"  thus: 


So 
S0 


suru 


aida. 


{     "  While  we  were  do- 
ling so." 


Mo      hum    hazu      da, 

^iremdgf  emamea  ueeeaaiiy  ia» 


{byt 


He  ought  to  be  here 
this  time." 


Areba,  jiki  ni       kiku\ 

Wr-ihere^ere,  immediaietv  hear)       a  jf  anything  of   that 

hazu      da  ,£^'-^«^ff/^'»^lkind    had    happened,    I 
koto     wo      kiki^sen.  should  have  heard  of  it. 

fa€i    (accus,)  (I)hear'Mot,  J 

N.  B.  Observe  the  suppressed  negative  which  hazu  sAmost  always 
implies.  Observe,  too,  that  kaztt  is  often  strengthened  by  a  preceding 
beki,  "should,"  "ought,"  thus  :  Areba,  jiki  ni  kiku-beki  hazu  da  ga, 
etc.    (Conf.  IF  178  and  IF  192.) 


40  THE    NOUN. 

Nochi  nif      yd      no  nai  tokiy\      a  j    ^jj]    ^gj]    yQ^ 

To^i  ni  at  the  beginning  of  a  sentence  is  a  sort  of  ex- 
pletive corresponding  more  or  less  to  our  "  by  the  way." 

IT  58.  More  difficult  than  any  of  the  above  are  the  uses  of 
tokoro,  which,  from  the  original  concrete  sense  of  **  place," 
has  come  to  be  used  in  various  abstract  meanings. 
Sometimes,  like  koto,  it  assumes  the  signification  of  **  a 
thing  of  the  mind,"  "  a  matter,"  "  a  subject,"  "  a  quality," 
as  in  the  following  example  : 

\      **  Coming    now    to 
the  matter  of  wages, 


Kyukin  no  tokoro  wa,     tsuki  ni 

l^age     *s  tmaiier  at' for 9  tnonikiu, 

ju-efi         tsukawashimasho. 

ieiP-Omllmrt  (I)  ufill^robablygiife. 


I  may  say  that  I  will 
give  you  ten  dollars 
a  month." 


A  good  instance  of  tokoro,  as  equivalent  to  our  suffix 

" ness"  used  to  form  abstract  substantives,  occurs 

at  the  end  of  H  280. 

In  the  middle  of  a  sentence,  tokoro,  especially  when 
followed  by  ye,  is  apt  to  assume  the  force  of  some  such 
conjunction  as  "while,"  **  whereupon,"  "when,"  **just 
as,"  thus  : 


Chodo  deru  tokoro  ye,  kyaku 

Bxaetly  ga^ni      tvheu,       gueai 

ga       mieta, 
(nom.)  appeared. 


"  A  visitor  came 
just  as  I  was  on  the 
point  of  going  out." 


Tokoro  ga  implies  opposition,  thus  : 


Ima-jibun   irasshtta  tokoro  ga, 

JTowP'Ome  deigneO-iO'go  even-if^ 

o  msu  desho. 

hoH0Hrakiff  abtCMi  tPiil^robabiffke, 


"  Even  if  you  do 
go  now,  you  are  not 
likely  to  find  him  at 
home." 


TOKORO. 


41 


Similarly  at  the  beginning  of  a  sentence,  where  tokoro 
ga  means  "  nevertheless,"  "  still,"  **  all  the  same,"  some- 
times "  it  occurs  to  me  that,"  while  tokoro  de  means 
"thereupon"  or  "  and  so."  Another  grammatical  use  of 
tokoro  is  that  in  which  it  corresponds  to  some  extent  to 
the  relative  pronouns  of  European  languages,  as  explained 
in  II  86. 

TnkoiPO  is  often,  in  familiar  talk,  nigori'ed  to  dokoro, 
and  then  expresses  an  almost  scornfully  strong  degree  of 
affirmation.  For  instance,  a  male  visitor  hazards  the 
remark  that  his  hostess's  baby  is  old  enough  to  creep 
abng  the  floor.  The  fond  mother,  indignant  at  having 
her  offspring's  powers  rated  so  low,  retorts  : 


Hau   dokoro  ja   nai ;  yoku 
Creep    place  i»H*tf     wtell 

arukimasii, 
(he)  wtafkM. 


"  It  is  no  case  of 
creeping,  I  can  assure 
you.  Why!  he  walks 
beautifully." 


Similarly : 

Yomeru  dokoro  ka  ?  kdshaku\      n  Able  to    read    in- 
Mie^io^ead  place     f        '«*'"'«  I  deed  !    Why!    he  de- 

l  livers  lectures. " 


mo  dekimasu, 
er€M  eveuinaieBi 


IT  59.  Many  nouns  are  simply  the  indefinite  forms  of  verbs 
used  substantively,  somewhat  like  our  English  nouns  in 
ing,  such  as  **  the  beginning,"  which  is  properly  a  part  of 
the  verb  "  to  begin."     Here  are  a  few  examples  : 

akinai,  **  trade  ;  "         from  akinau,    "  to  trade." 

hori,  "  a  canal ;  "  „  horu, 

tatamif  **amat; "  ,,  tatamu, 

tsure,  ** companions;  "  „  tsurerUy 

warai,  "laughter;"        ,,  warau. 


**  to  excavate." 
"  to  pile  up." 
"to take  with  one." 
"to  laugh." 


yorokobi,  **joy ; " 


„  yorokobUf*^  to  rejoice." 


42  THE   NOUN. 


NOUNS    USED    AS    ADJECTIVES. 

11  60.  The  Japanese  parts  of  speech  do  not  exactly  coincide 
with  ours  (see  I19),  and  nouns  are  much  more  extensiyely 
used  in  this  language  than  in  English.  We  shall  see  in 
the  next  chapter  that  the  so-called  pronouns  are  really 
nouns.  True  adjectives  also  are  scarce,  and  are  frequent- 
ly replaced  by  nouns,  just  as  in  English  we  say  *'  a  gold 
chain,"  **  a  sw^ar-plum,"  **  the  Paris  fashions,'*  **  a  thing 
of  beauty,''  The  chief  ways  in  which  a  noun  may  do 
duty  for  an  adjective  are  : 

li^  61.  I.  As  first  member  of  a  compound,  thus: 

Ajnerika-jin,  lit.  "  America  person,"  i.e.,  "  an  American." 

doro-ashiy         ,,   "  mud  feet,**  „    **  muddy  feet.** 

Nihon-gOy         ,,   ** Japan  words,**        ,,   "the     Japanese 

language.'* 

H  62.  II.  Followed  by  the  postposition ^^^  "of,** — the  order 
of  the  words,  it  should  be  noted,  being  the  reverse  of  that 
followed  in  English,  thus  : 

atari^  no^  keishoku,^  lit.  "  scenery^  of*  neighbourhood*, 
i.e.,  "  the  surrounding  scenery.*' 

kinjo  no  tobutsu-ya,  lit.  "  Chinese-thing-shop  of  neigh- 
bourhood,'* i.e.,  "  a  neighbouring  general  shop." 

mukashi  no  htto,  lit.  "people  of  antiquity,"  i.e.,  "the 
ancients." 
I1  63.  III.  Followed  by  the  word  na,  which  is  a  fragment 
of  the  present  tense  of  the  classical  verb  nam,  "to  be,** 
thus  : 

baka^   na^  yatsu^,     "  a  foolish'  (being*)  fellow\'* 
choho   na   kikai,      "  a  convenient  machine.'* 
heta      na   e-kaki,     "  an  unskilful  painter." 


NOUNS    USED   AS   ADJECTIVES    AND    ADVERBS.  43 

jozu      na   e-kaki,     **  a  skilful  painter.*' 
kirei     na   musu7ne,  **  a  pretty  girl." 
odayaka    na    nami,    **  a    calm    sea  *'    (lit.     **  calm 
waves"). 
Some  of  these  words — kirei,  for  instance, — are  so  con- 
stantly used  as  adjectives,  that  their  proper  sense  as  nouns 
tends  to  pass  out  of  remembrance.     In  the  cases  where  it 
is  preserved,  the  word  takes  «o  after  it  when  it  is  used  as 
a  noun,  and  na  when  it  is  used  as  an  adjective,  thus : 

Heta^  no^  naga^-dangi^y  **  The  long'  speech*  of  ^  an 
unskilful*  (speaker),"  a  proverb  signifying  that  bad 
speakers  are  apt  to  say  more  than  the  occasion  requires. 

y        Heta^  na^'isha^  sama^,  lit.  "  unskilful*  physician^  Mr*., 
i.e.  "  an  unskilful  doctor."     (yozu  J:?  corresponds  almost 
literally  to  the  English  "  a  good  hand  at,"  and  heta  T¥ 
to  "  a  bad  hand  at.") 
N.  B.  Conf.  also  If  197. 

NOUNS    USED    AS    ADVERBS. 

IT  64.  When  followed  by  the  postposition  ni,  **  in,"  or  de, 
**  by,"  nouns  such  as  those  above  instanced  often  cor- 
respond to  European  adverbs,  thus  ; 
baka  ni,  **  foolishly." 
gwaikoku   ni.Qx.de,    **  abroad"  {gwaikoku=:^^outtt 

countries,"  i.e.,  ^* foreign  countries"). 
jozu  4if,  **  skilfully." 
Sometimes  they  are  taken  adverbially,  even  though  no 
postposition  be  suffixed,  thus  : 

konnichi,  **  this  day,"      or  **  to-day." 
mukashiy  "antiquity,"      „  <<  anciently,"  "formerly." 
For  nouns  used  as  postpositions  see  H  141  et  seq. 


CHAPTER     IV. 

The  Pronoun. 


PERSONAL    PRONOUNS. 

1i  65.  The  Japanese  words  corresponding  to  the  personal 
pronouns  of  European  languages  are  simply  nouns  whose 
original  significations  are  quite  clear,  and  which  are  in- 
deed still  often  used  with  those  significations.  Except 
for  the  sake  of  convenience  to  foreign  students,  it  would 
not  be  necessary  to  discuss  them  apart  from  nouns  in 
general.  They  belong  to  the  category  of  such  descriptive 
expressions  as  **  your  humble  servant,"  "  your  ladyship," 
**  His  Majesty."  Self-depreciatory  terms  are  naturally 
preferred  in  speaking  of  oneself  (ist.  person),  and  compli- 
mentary terms  in  speaking  to  or  of  other  people  (2nd. 
and  3rd.  persons). 

IT  66.  The  most  usual  equivalent  for  **  I  "  is  watakushif  lit. 
"  selfishness."  The  vulgar  often  contract  it  to  watashi 
and  washi.  Other  nouns  now  current  in  the  same  sense 
are  boku,  **  servant,"  which  is  much  affected  by  young 
men  in  familiarly  addressing  each  other  ;  sessha,  "  the 
awkward  person  ;  "  shoseiy  **  junior."  Ore  is  a  very  vulgar 
corruption  of  ware,  which  is  the  commonest  word  for 
*'  I  "  in  the  Written  Language.  Ora,  which  may  often 
be  heard  from  the  mouths  of  coolies,  is  for  ore  wa. 

It  67.  The  following  equivalents  for  **you  "  are  all  in  com- 
mon use  : — Anata,  a  contraction  oiano  kata,  *'  that  side," 
"  beyond  "  (which  meaning  is  still  retained  in  poetr}',  as 
kumo  no  anata,  "beyond  the  clouds  ").     Anata  is  a  polite 


PERSONAL   PRONOUNS.  45 

expression ;  with  the  addition  of  samUy  **  Mr,'*  **  Mrs," 
**  Miss,"  "  Lord,"  "  Lady,"  it  is  supremely  polite.  Omae, 
lit.  **  honourably  in  front,"  was  formerly  polite,  but  is 
now  only  used  in  addressing  inferiors,  such  as  coolies, 
one's  own  servants,  one's  own  children,  etc.  Omae  san 
(san  is  short  for  sama)  stands  half-way  between  anaia  and 
omae  in  politeness.  It  is  much  used  by  women.  Sensei 
"  senior,"  is  used  chiefly  in  addressing  men  or  women  of 
learning.  Danna  satp,  "  Mr.  Master,"  is  used  by  a  ser- 
vant in  addressing  his  master,  and  by  inferiors  generally. 
Kimi,  **  prince,"  is  chiefly  used  by  young  men  in  address- 
ing each  other  familiarly.  Besides  the  above  may  be 
mentioned  Heika,  lit.  *' beneath  the  steps  of  the  throne," 
i.e.  **  Your  Majesty ;  "  Kakka  **  beneath  the  council-cham- 
ber, "  i.e.  **  Your  Excellency  ;  "  sono  ho,  **  that  side,"  the 
equivalent  for  "  you  "  employed  in  the  law-courts  by  legal 
oflicers  ;  kisama,  an  insulting  term  used  in  addressing  an 
inferior  with  whom  one  is  angry. 

N.  B.  Etymologically  khama  means  "  exalted  Sir ; "  but,  like 
many  other  words,  it  has  fallen  from  its  former  high  estate. 

The  word  temae,  lit.  **  before  the  hand,"  is  remarkable ; 
for  it  may  be  used  either  as  a  very  humble  and  therefore 
polite  equivalent  for  **  I,"  or  as  an  insulting  equivalent 
for  "you."  In  the  sense  of  "you,"  it  formerly  had  the 
honorific  o  prefixed.  The  rude  use  of  it  came  in  through 
the  dropping  of  the  honorific. 

H  68.  Sensei f  Danna  san,  Heika,  and  Kakka  are  as  appro- 
priate for  the  third  person  ("  he  "  or  "  she  ")  as  for  the 
second.  Anata  may  also  occasionally  be  heard  in  that 
sense.  Much  in  use  also  for  "  he  and  "  she "  are  awo 
hito,  "  that  person,"  more  politely  ano  o  kata,  lit.  "  that 
honourable  side;"  ano  otoko,   "that  man  ; "  ano  onna, 


+6 


THE    PRONOUN. 


**  that  woman  ;  "  ano  ojiisan,  **  that  old  gentleman  ;  "  ano 
obdsan,  **  that  old  lady  •/'  etc.  Muko^  lit.  **  the  other  side/* 
i.e.,  **the  other  party,"  not  infrequently  represents  **  he," 
"she,"  or  "they."  ArCy  "that,"  is  also  sometimes 
•  used  for  "  he  "  and  "  she,"  but  it  is  not  at  all  polite,  and 
more  often  refers  to  things,  i.e.,  it  means  "  it."  The 
vague  "  3'ou  "  or  "  one,"  which  corresponds  to  the  French 
on  and  German  man,  has  no  equivalent  in  Japanese. 
Thus  "  to  clap  one's  hands  "  is  simply  te  wo  tataku,  lit. 
"  hands  (accus.)  clap."  "  You  can't  tell  "  (meaning 
"  one  has  no  means  of  knowing  ")  is  simply  shiremaseti, 
which  might  equally  well  stand  for  "  /  can't  tell." 

N.6.  The  word  htto  has  been  adduced  by  some  as  an  equivalent  off 
the  French  impersonal  on.  But  it  is  not  really  so,  as  it  always  retains 
its  proper  sense  of  *'  person,"  '*  people,"  especially  "o^A^r  people." 

IF  69.  Like  other  nouns — indeed  more  frequently  than  other 
nouns — the  so-called  personal  pronouns  may  take  the 
plural  suffixes  mentioned  on  page  28.  The  following 
forms  are  sanctioned  by  usage  : 


watakHshi-domo 
boku-ra 
sessha-domo 
sessha-ra 

oira  (for  ore-ra,  very 
vulgar) 

ano  hito-tachi 
ano  0  kata-gata 
are-ra  (rude) 


"they. 


anata-gata 

omae-  [san]gaia 

omae-  {san-']  tachi 

sensei-gata 

danna-shu 

danna-gata 

kimi'tachi 

kisama-tachi 

temae't{a)chi-ra 


*you. 


N.  B.  Observe,  however,  that  ivatakushi-domo  is  often  used  for 
the  singular,  it  being  slightly  humbler  than  watakushi.  Oira,  too, 
may  be  heard  in  the  singular,  the  line  between  singular  and  plural, 
as  already  noticed  in  H  44,  being  less  sharply  drawn  in  Japanese  than 


PERSONAL   PRONOUNS.  47 

in  European  languages.  Note,  moreover,  that  the  Japanese  never 
use  their  words  for  "we,"  as  we  sometimes  do  ours,  to  signify  "  you 
and  I."  They  only  use  them  to  signify  "other  people  and  I,"  or 
rather  ♦•  I  and  my  fellows." 

H  70.  .Like  other  nouns,  the  so-called  personal  pronouns 
may  be  followed  by  postpositions.     Thus,  just  as  we  say 

ano    ho  no  oya      I  u  the  parent  of  that  child,"     . 

that  ekitd  ofpatrewt^   )  '^  ' 

so  also  do  we  say 

watakushi  710    oya,  \**  the  parent  of  me," 
M         •fj^artmi,]  i,,e,  "  my  parent." 

omae  no  oya,  **  the  parent  of  you,"  i.e*.,  **your  parent" 
(in  addressing  an  inferior) ;  ano  htto  no  oya,  **  the  parent 
of  that  person,"  i.e.  "  his  {or  her)  parent ;"  etc. 

Just  as  we  say 

i.e.,  *^He 


treated  that 
child      very 
ibadly," 


Sono  ko     wo   hidoi  me  ni  awasemashita, 
What  €hiM{accus.)har»h  e^et  to  ean§ed»to'tme€t, 

SO  also  may  we  say 

Watakushi  wo  hidoi  me  ni  ]      "  He  treated  me  very 
awasemashita,  j  badly. " 

There  is,  therefore,  no  such  thing  as  a  declension  of  pro- 
nouns or  any  special  set  of  possessive  pronouns. 

ir  71.  The  chief  thing  to  remember  in  connection  with  the 
Japanese  nouns  answering  to  our  personal  pronouns  is 
the  extremely  rare  use  that  is  made  of  them.  Except  in 
cases  of  special  emphasis  or  antithesis,  the  information 
concerning  persons  which  is  in  European  languages  con- 
veyed by  means  of  pronouns,  is  left  to  be  gathered  from 
the  context.  Thus  the  single  word  kaerimashita  will 
mean  **  I  have  come  back,"  or  **  he,  she  or  they  have  come 
back,"  according  to  the  previous  drift  of  the  conversation. 


^8  THE   PRONOUN. 

Kore  kara  furo     wo     tsiikaimash6,]i.e,,  **Will  now 

rtbis  from,  bath   {accus.)      wiii^nBe^        )  take  a  bath," 

naturally  means  **/  will  now  take  my  bath."  For  it  is 
almost  a  matter  of  course  that,  in  such  personal  things, 
each  individual  can  speak  only  for  himself.  I  can  only, 
eat  my  own  dinner,  I  probably  only  love  my  own  country, 
and  only  work  to  support  my  own  wife  and  children.  To 
be,  therefore,  for  ever  reiterating  and  harping  on  the 
words  **I,"  *<me,"  *<  my,"  "you,"  "he,"  etc.,  seems  to 
Japanese  ears  absurd  and  tedious  tautology.  A  Japanese 
will  often  discourse  for  half-an-hour  without  using  a 
single  personal  pronoun.  The  perpetual  recurrence  of 
watakushi  and  anata  is  one  of  the  surest  signs  of  a  clumsy 
foreign  speaker,  who  translates  his  own  idiom  into  Japan- 
ese, instead  of  thinking  impersonally  as  the  Japanese  do. 
These  remarks  will  lead  the  intelligent  student  to  observe 
that  most  of  the  examples  scattered  throughout  the  pre- 
sent work  are  susceptible  of  being  variously  rendered. 
Where,  for  instance,  we  have  put  "  I,"  it  would  often  be 
equally  correct  to  insert  "  he,"  "  she  "  or  "  they,"  in  its 
stead.  The  use  of  "  you,"  that  is  of  the  second  person,  in 
English  generally  necessitates  some  change  in  the  Ja- 
panese phrase,  especially  if  an  equal  or  superior  be  ad- 
dressed. This  point  will  be  elucidated  in  the  Chapter  on 
Honorifics,  IF  392  et  seq.,  a  chapter  which  the  student 
would  do  well  to  read  through  in  connection  with  what 
has  here  been  said  on  the  subject  of  personal  pronouns. 


REFLEXIVE    PRONOUNS. 

IT  72.  The  word  "  self"  is  expressed  by  jibun  (less  often  by 
jishin),  commonly  followed  by  the  postposition  de,  thus : 


REFLEXIVE,   DEMONSTRATIVE,    ETC.,    PRONOUNS.  49 

watakushi  jibun,  ) ,,  j^  g^jf  » 

watakiishi  jishin,  i        ^ 

omaejibun  (not  honorific), ) ,,         gelf." 
go  jtbun  (honorific),  )     -^ 

Another  word  for  "  self "  is  gnore^  which  is  also  used 
as  an  insulting  equivalent  for  "  you." 

Waga,  a  Classical  form  whose  proper  meaning  is  **  my," 
may  still  sometimes  be  heard  in  the  sense  of  "  my  own," 
"  our  own,*'  **  one's  own,"  thus  : 

waga  kuni,  "my  country,"  "one's  country,'*  "/a 
patrie.''  But  its  use  is  chiefly  confined  to  set  speeches 
and  lectures.  So  is  that  of  the  phrase  waga  hai,  "  we," 
more  lit.  "  my  fellows." 

DEMONSTRATIVE,    INTERROGATIVE,    AND    INDEFINITE 
PRONOUNS   AND   ADVERBS. 

H  73.  The  demonstrative,  interrogative  and  indefinite  pro- 
nouns, being  marked  by  certain  correspondences  of  sound 
and  formation,  may  be  best  studied  by  means  of  the  table 
which  we  give  on  the  next  page.  The  adverbs  derived  from 
the  same  roots  are  also  given  there,  so  that  the  learner 
may  embrace  all  the  kindred  forms  in  one  glance.  He 
should  note  that  Japanese,  like  Latin,  distinguishes  a 
nearer  "that"  {sore,  Latin  iste)  from  a  further  "that" 
{are,  Latin  ille),  the  former  being  used  of  things  not  very 
distant  and  of  things  connected  with  the  person  spoken 
to,  while  the  latter  is  applied  to  things  which  are  distant 
or  have  relation  to  the  person  spoken  of.  He  must  note 
furthermore  that  Japanese,  like  French,  distinguishes 
substantive  forms  of  these  pronouns  from  adjective  forms, 
e.g.  kore^  "  celui-ci,''  but"  kono,  "  ceS' 


5P 


THE   PRONOUN. 


CO  <        •« 
— '  ■—         c  ■ 


J3    43 


3  '-^ 


^    >      ^       ^    ^ 


CO  «-^ 

CO  ^  -. 

>     S     g    -     I    -    ^    -$    ^      ^ 


^    b  '^  *^  "S  * 

►^    -W    ,nj     ctf     ^     CO 

2;  1<  "S  s  rt  '3     « 
o  £  :2  ^  5  S    5 

w  •-^. 

< 
O 

o 

(^ 

H 


*2 


a  .g  ja  ^  js 
nf  S  •«   S    «   « 


CO  < 


5  -^  -rr      "o"  rt 
^    «   ?,  *-  -a  "t: 


nil 


5  5- 


xn 
"S    SJ    rt    " 


fe  5 


2   25;S'2SSS2 


^  ^  ^ 
o  o  o 
J3  43  43 


.•*«  .■*5  ."S 


S   Q  s 
J«  ■*£  .>«e 


IP    o    o  »o    o 

■^  rfe  ^  ^ 


«  .2  o  : 


lO    o    o    o    o 
^  rfe  ja  ^  *: 


c  S 


^^O.    ^     -    ^    43    , 


S 


iS 


8^     i§l§ 


.     M 


bb 


CO  .2  ^  g"  bfl  .  .5 

CQ   ^  S  C  bfl  ^ 


S 


is 

it 
ll 


a    ifc    c         


1-^      : 


-§•§■ 


o   **  -2   ''^ 


•*;*>■—' 


a   >> 


•§-§-§ 


E  o  >,  >»« 
o      a  a 

to         <d    <B 


^•^ 


s 

5 


DEMONSTRATIVE   AND   INTERROGATIVE    PRONOUNS.        5 1 

IF  75.  Here  are  a  few  examples  of  the  use  of  the  substantive 
forms  kore,  **this;"  sore^  "that"  (near);  are^  "that" 
(far) ;  dore  ?  "  which  ?  **  dare  ?  or  more  politely  donata  ? 
"  who  ?  "  ;  nani  ?  "  what  ?  "— 

Kore   wa  omoshiroi.  ii,e,f  "  As  for  this,  it  is  amusing,'* 
Vhis  aa-fm;  amnting.  \or  more  briefly^  "  This  is  fun.'* 

Sore    wa^    nan  desii  ?  j "  What  is  that  (which  you  have 
Vhat  ms'for,  mhai  itfitjf  1^^  your  hand,  etc.)  ? " 

Are     wa  dare  710   uchi  desii  P  {^' Whose  is  that  house 

IPhat  aa-ror,  ufko  of  hon»e  U(ii)f  |(over  there)  ?" 

Dore  ni  shimasho  ?) 


Which  shall  I  take?" 


Nani       wo       sum  ?  ( "  What  are  you  doing  ?  " 

V9»Mmi(ai:cus  hart  \  Oaf      I         (Said  to  an  inferior.  The  polite  equivalent 
ww^m§  \accus,  part.)  tto  r     y  ^^^j^  ^  ^^^-  ^saru  ?) 

Dare        ga  kimashUa  ?  f "  Who  has  come  ? " 

--..      /     _ °-      .  V  _  a    1        {Donata  ga  fnatratemashtta  ? 

W»ho  {nom.  part)  hat-eomef    I  would  be  mofe  polite.) 

IT  76.  Here  are  some  examples  of  the  adjective  forms  kono, 
"this;"  sono,  "that"  (near);  ano,  "  that  "  (far)  ;  e/o«o  ? 
"  which  ?  "  and  of  the  forms  in  na  and  iu  : — 


Kono  nedan. 
Konna  nedan, 
Sono      mama, 

Sonna  koto,) 
So    iu   koto.) 

A  no  takai  yama. 


"  This  price." 
"This  sort  of  price." 
("That  way." 

i     (E.g.,  the  way  you  mention.) 

"That  sort  of  thing." 

("  That  high  mountain 
1     (over  there)." 


Anna      tohojnonai      kake-ne,    f   "Such  an  extravagant 

rkat'like   onirageona  over-charge,  \    price  as  that." 

(Said  in  speaking  to  a  third  party.  In  addressing  the  shopkeeper  who  was  guilty 
of  the  overcharge,  one  would  say  sonna^  not  anna,  because  sonna  corresponds  to  the 
second  person,  anna  to^the  third.) 

Dono  tsumori  de?y<  ^ith  what  intention  ?  " 


52  THE    PRONOUN. 

Do     iu     tsumori   de  ?  |"With      what     kind    of 
Hmt  «asr  iHieniioH  hyf  \     intention  ?  " 

IT  77.  What  we  have  here,  for  convenience'  sake,  termed 
adjective  forms,  are  not  adjectives  properly  so  called. 
Kono  was  originally  two  words,  viz.  ko,  **this  "  (substan- 
tive), and  no,  "of,"  so  that  kono  meant  **  of  this."  Similarly 
in  the  case  of  so«o,  anOy  and  dono  ?,  which  meant  respec- 
tively "  of  that  "  (nearer)  or  **  of  him,"  **  of  that  "  (further) 
or  "  of  him,"  and  **  of  which  ?  "  Indeed  they  still  preserve 
this  their  ancient  sense  in  certain  contexts,  as  : 

sono  tame,  **  (for  the)  sake  of  that.*' 
sono  oya,     "  his  (or  her)  parent." 

Konna^  "  such,"  is  a  contraction  of  kono  yd  na,  lit. 
"  this  manner  being,"  i.e.,  **  being  in  this  way,"  **  being 
thus."  Similarly  sonna  is  from  sono  yd  wa,  anna  from  ano 
yd  na,  and  donna  ?  from  dono  yd  na  ?  Kd  iu,  **  such," 
means  literally  **  thus  (they)  say,"  i.e.  **  people  call  it 
thus."    Sd  iu,  a  iu,  and  dd  iu  ?  have  a  similar  etymology. 

%  78.  Before  words  of  Chinese  origin,  the  adjective-pronouns 
**  this  "  and  "  that  "  are  often  expressed  by  the  syllable  td 
CSr),  a  Chinese  vocable  properly  signifying  "  the  one  in 
question,"  **  the  actual  one,"  as : 

td-niny     **  the  person    in    question,"    "  this    {or   that) 
person." 

td'getsu    no   sw^,l<«the  end  of  the  month." 

Some  of  the  adverbs  given  in  the  paradigm  on  page  50 
will  be  found  exemplified  in  Chapter  X,  IF  368. 
IF  79.  The    indefinite    pronouns  are  formed  from  the  in- 
terrogative pronouns  by  the  addition  of  the  interrogative 
particle  ka^  of  the  postpositions  mo  and  de  mo,  "  even," 


INDEFINITE    PRONOUNS. 


53 


and  of  the  emphatic  particle  jrc?.  Thus  dare^  de^  mo^^ 
"any  body,"  "every  body,"  is  literally  "even^  by*  whom?*" 
Here  are  a  few  examples  of  the  use  of  the  indefinite 
pronouns  : 

O mocha  ya  nani  ka,     "  Toys  or  something." 

(The  words  nani  ka  here  have  the  same  vague 
meaningless  application  that  "  or  something  " 
often  has  in  Colloquial  English). 

Mata  donata  ka  miemashita.     (Polite.)]  "  Somebody     else 

has  come,"  or 
"Other guests  have 
arrived." 


,,     dare     ,,       mieta,  (Familiar.) 

^gnim  §aamebod§f  ha§'apjp  eared. 


Nan      de     mo  yoroshii     kara,  \      "Anything  will  do. 

"'^Mpihimg      (i5)go0a  hecanae    Just     give     US     SOme- 

nani       ka     tegarui  mono    ^^    |?^^"?or  ^ther  which 

MomeihiMg-or^ther  ea»y  thing  (accus.)  \^^  Will  take  nO  trouble 

dashite        kudasai, 

puiiiug'forih  coude§eeud. 


to  get  ready." 


(Said,  for  instance,  by  a 
hungry  traveller  arriving 
late  at  a  hotel.) 


Dochira  ga  yoroshiu  pozaimasho  ?      ,  \i.-  i         i-i 

WMeh{nom.)    good    «.*«^ri»*«*lir-*«f  ^^     yOU     thmk    Will 


Sore  wa,  dochira  de  mo  yoroshii. 

T7hai  as-ror,  either         (is)  good, 

Donata     ka  o  ide      ni 

Somehodtf'or^ther  houonrmble       exit       to 

natte        orimasu     ka  ? 

hmviug'b  eeoame       i»  f 

le,     donata    mo    o  ide  ni   natte 
orimasen. 


"Which  (of  the  two) 
do    you 
be  best  ?  " 

"Oh!  {sore  TE^a) either 
will  do  quite  well." 


"Has  some  one 
arrived  ?  " 


"No,  no  one  has 
arrived." 

(More  lit.  "  Everybody 
has  unarrived  ". —  Conf. 
II 433.) 


Nan^  no^    sewa^    de^    mo^  shite^ 


kuremasu',  lit,      atveai 

hetp^  of^  everythimg,^.^,^ 


doiHg^ 


"He  will  help  you 
in  every  way." 


54  THE    PRONOUN. 

•  Dare^     mo^     s6^    iimasu*.  "Everybody''*  says* 


RELATIVE    PRONOUNS. 

IF  80.  The  Japanese  language  has  neither  relative  pronouns 
nor  relative  words  of  any  kind.  Their  absence  is  general- 
ly made  good  by  the  use  of  a  construction  in  which  the 
verb  is  prefixed  to  the  noun  attributively,  just  as  an  adjec- 
tive might  be.  Thus  the  Japanese  not  only  say  *'  a  good 
man/'  **a  bad  man,"  etc.;  but  they  say  "a  comes  man," 
**  a  goes  man,"  **  the  went  man,"  instead  of  **  a  man  who 
comes,"  '*  a  man  who  goes,"  **  the  man  who  went."  This 
is  shown  in  the  following  examples : — 


Kuru   hiio.  \ 

Coa»€»  pertoM* 

Kita     hito. 

Catne  per  torn. 


**  The  person  who  comes." 

{Or  "  The  people  who  come.") 

"The  person  who  came." 

{Or  "  The  people  who  came.") 


Kind      kita   hito.  \       "The  person   (or  persons)  who 

^egterday  came  pert^n.  j  Came  yesterday. 


Ano  yama  no  zetcho 
ni      haete      iru    oki   na 

OH    growing      it  large 

matsu, 

pine. 


"The  large  pine-tree  which 
stands  on  the  top  of  that 
mountain  over  there." 


Shinakucha      naran        "It  is  a  thing  which  it  won't 

^^ror^nouaoing.hecomet^i  ^^    not    tO   do,"  i.^.,    "It    is    a 

koto  desu,  ,.  . 

iMug{it)it.  thmg  which  must  be  done." 

11  81.  As  shown  in  the  foregoing  examples,  the  English 
relative  and  verb  are  represented  in  Japanese  by  a  verb 
alone,  which  is  used  participially,  or,  as  it  is  more  usual 
to  say  in  Japanese  grammar,  attributively,  prefixed  to  the 
noun.     In  English  this  construction  is  allowable  only  in 


RELATIVE    PRONOUNS.  55 

the  case  of  participles,  as  "  the  shipwrecked  sailors/'  **  the 
shrieking  women  and  children."  In  Japanese  it  is  the 
actual  tense-forms  of  the  verb  that  are  thus  employed. 
Properly  speaking,  all  the  tenses  are  capable  of  being 
thus  used  attributively  in  relative  constructions.  In  the 
Book  Language  they  are  all  constantly  so  used.  But  the 
Colloquial  exhibits  a  strong  tendency  to  limit  this  way  of 
speaking  to  the  "  certain  past "  and  the  "  certain  present  or 
future,"  the  merely  **  probable  "  tenses  (e.g.  koyOj  kitaro) 
being  hardly  ever  now  heard  in  such  contexts. — Observe 
that,  as  the  Japanese  language,  generally  speaking,  abhors 
the  use  of  the  passive,  the  verbs  employed  in  relative 
sentences  are  almost  always  neuter  or  active  ones,  thus : 

Hansen  ni  aimashita  sui/u-ra,  (     "  The  shipwrecked 

Shipwrech  to        tnet  §ailor§.     jsailors." 

Haruka   oki   ni   mieru   fune.  (     "  The  vessel  that  is  to 
•Mfar     0Mug in  appear »  ve§§€t,  (be  seen  far  away  at  sea." 

Hepburn  sensei  no  koshiraeta  (  "  The  dictionary  which 
MMepkwm    weui^r    'M{he)prepared\y^2iS  written    by    Dr.    Hep- 

jiten.  i  burn,"  i.e.,  "  Dr.  Hepburn's 

Metiomary.  (dictionary." 

^^kichi  to  iu  annai  no  mono.]      "  The  guide  called  Oto- 

LU.  "thc€uiderfl»»ai»o»noHO,  i.e.  person  Lkichi,"  Or  "  Otokichi  the 
of  Guidance  ^  of  whom  people  say  (iu)  that  •  •%     n 

ftoJheisOtokichi."  J  guide. 

Arashi  to  iu  mono.  ]      "  What  is      called     a 

•typhoon,"  i.e.  simply^  **  a 
typhoon." 

Amerika  to  iu  kuni.   I  •  "  T^^  •^"""Ijy  P?°P'^  *=?"  ^™«- 
(rica,    I.e.  simply,  *' America. 

N.  B.  This  impersonal  but  active  construction  with  to  iu  and  other 
synonymous  verbs,  corresponding  to  the  English  passive,  must  be 
thoroughly  mastered,  as  it  is  constantly  in  the  mouths  of  the  people. 
It  is  often  used  for  making  general  assertions,  such  as 


Lit.    "  the  thing  (mono)  of  which  ^ople  say 
(iu)  that  (to)  it  is  a  typhoon  (arashi)." 


56  THE    PRONOUN. 

"Dogs  are  faithful  creatures/'  or  t    Inn  to  iu  mono  wa^  chitgi  no  aru 
"The  dog  is  a  faithful  creature."  I        mono  desu. 

Lit.  As-for  (wa)  the  thing  (mono)  of  which  people  say  (lu)  that 
(to)  it  is  a  dog  (inu),  it  is  (desu)  a  thing  ftnono)  which  is  (aru)  of 
(no)  faithfulness  (chugi).  Here  our  single  word  "  dog"  or  "  dogs  " 
is  rendered  by  the  five  words  inu  to  iu  mono  wa. 

If  82.  This  use  of  the  active  where  a  European  would 
expect  the  passive  sometimes  causes  an  appearance  of 
ambiguity.  Thus  shiranai  hito  may  signify  either  "  a 
person  who  does  not  know  "  or  "a  person  who  is  not 
known  (to  me),"  i.e.  "  a  person  whom  I  do  not  know." 
But  the  context  generally  sufficiently  indicates  which 
way  the  phrase  should  be  taken.  For  instance,  yonde^ 
shimatta^  hon^  cannot  possibly  mean  "  the  book  which  has 
finished  reading,"  as  such  a  collocation  of  words  would 
have  no  sense.  It  can  only  mean  **  the  book^  which  (I, 
they,  etc.)  have  finished*  reading^"  Sumau^  tochi*-  cannot 
mean  **the  locality*  which  resides*."  It  must  mean  "  the 
locality*  in  which  (so-and-so)  ^esides^"  The  following 
are  similar  instances : 

Tochaku  shlta  toki.     f     "The  time  when  (I,  they, 
^rrivai     aid    time,     ietc.)  arrived." 

Wakaranai       koto,     f     "  Something  which  I  don't 
f^  WTrndertianthMot  J  thing.  \  understand." 

Te  ni  motteru  mono,    f     "  That  which  he  is  holding 
Maud  in  U'hoidiug  thing,  (in  his  hand." 

IT  83.  The  example  just  given  of  sumau  tochi,  signifying 
"  the  locality  in  which  so  and  so  resides,"  exemplifies 
the  remarkable  Japanese  idiom  according  to  which  the 
preposition  that  frequently  accompanies  an  English  rela- 
tive pronoun  is  always  omitted,  thus  : 


RELATIVE   PRONOUNS   WITH   PREPOSITIONS. 


57 


Toji     no  furukii    natta 

Binding  of       old     hat'keeoi 

hon. 


imel      "A  book  of  which  the 
I  binding  has  become  old. 


Sore^  wa^  anata^  ga^  saku^- 
nen^  o^  tomari^  nastta^  yado- 


\  "Is"  that*  the  hoteP" 
in  which  you'  staid^***' 
(lit.  honourably  o,  deign- 
ed nastta,  to  stay  totnari) 
last'  year^  ?" 


"  No,    /    did    not  stay 
there ;  but   (ga)  it  is  the 


le ;  watakushi     wa     totna- 

J^'0f        u»€  ma- for,     Miaif 

rimasen     ^a— ,     saku-nen 

noi        mfhereat—'  laai-year 

tomodachi  ga  tomarimashite,  \  hotel    in    which  a    friend 
friemd      {nom.)     kao4§tg»ttm4d,  j 

taiso  ni  ki      ni  irimashita 

greaiiy  wpirii  to        entered 

yadoya  desu. 
Uoiei       it* 


of  mine  staid  last  year, 
and  with  which  he  was 
much  pleased." 


Dono      yama  kara      kono\ 

Vn^ieh     utonuiaiH        froan,       thia 

hen  no        meibutsu 

neighbourhood  *a    famouaHprodneiiou 

no  suisho      wa    demasu  ka  ? 

'«  ery§itU§  mffor,      iatue       t 


**  From  which  of 
these  mountains  come 
the  crystals, /or  which 
this  locality  is  noted  ?" 


Watakushi   ga    Yokohama  no 

M  (nom.)  l^ohohauaa    *g 

ni-jU    ban    yetanomimashttara, 

imeniw  nnanber  io  mhenmhm^appiiedt 

achira         kara  uke-atte 

there  from         gnaranteeing 

yokoshimashita   boy   desu, 

tent  boy       it. 


"  He  is  a  servant 
whom  I  got  by  applying 
to  the  Grand  Hotel  at 
^Yokohama,  and  for 
whose  good  behaviour 
the  hotel -keeper  is 
guarantee." 


/ 

N.  B.  The  English  word  '•  boy  "  has  been  largely  adopted  by  the 
Japanese  in  the  sense  of  "  servant." 

Closely  similar  are  such  cases  as  warui  rikutsu,  signi- 
fying, not  **a  bad  reason,"  but  "  the  reason  why  (so-and- 
so)  is  bad." 


S8  THE  PRONOUN. 

II  84.  The  terseness  of  the  Japanese  expressiona  s  compared 
with  ours  should  not  occasion  any  insuperable  difficulty 
to  the  careful  student.  After  all,  we  use  a  somewhat 
similar  idiom  in  English  when  we  speak  of  "  a  shaving- 
brush,"  meaning  "  a  brush  with  which  a  man  helps  him- 
self to  shave  ; "  of  **  a  smoking-room,**  meaning  "  a  room 
in  which  people  smoke;"  of  **a  stepping-stone,"  meaning 
"  a  stone  ow  which  one  may  step,"  &c.,  &c. 

IF  85.  Several  **  who's  "  or  **  which's  "  are  often  attached  in 
English  to  the  same  noun.  In  such  cases  the  Japanese 
language  uses  the  gerund  (in  set  speeches  the  indefinite 
form)  for  the  verbs  of  every  clause,  excepting  that  im- 
mediately preceding  the  noun  qualified  (see  II  278  et  seq, 
and  U  422  et  seq.).  An  instance  of  this  construction  is 
given  in  the  example  on  the  foregoing  page,  where  totna- 
rimashlte  is  a  gerund  and  irimashtta  a  past  tense,  both 
qualifying  the  word  yadoya.  But  this  idiom — the  referring 
of  several  relative  clauses  to  one  noun — is  not  a  favourite 
one  in  Colloquial  Japanese.  The  last  example  on  the 
foregoing  page,  viz.  that  mentioning  the  boy  engaged  at 
the  Grand  Hotel,  Yokohama,  shows,  in  the  case  of  the 
word  tanomimashitara,  the  avoidance  of  such  a  construc- 
tion. Indeed  a  great  number  of  relative  phrases — even 
single  relative  phrases — are  turned  in  some  other  way. 
Take,  for  instance : 

Mune^  no^  waruku^  naru^  hanashi^,  "  A  story  which  it 
makes  one  feel  sick  to  listen  to;"  lit.  "Chest*  's*  bad^ 
becoming*  story 5." 

Musume^  ga^  hitori^  atte^,  O  Haru^  to^  moshimasu^, 
"  He  has  one  daughter  whose  name  is  O  Haru, "  lit. 
*<  Daughter^  one-person'  being,*  (people)  say'  that*  (she 
is)  O  Harus." 


RELATIVE   PRONOUNS   HOW   AVOIDED.  59 

Senjitsu^  o*  hanashp  no^  doguya^  wa^^  tsui^  shindai- 
kagiri^  nP  narimashita^^  so^^  desii^*,  i.e.,  "  It  seems  that 
the  curio -dealer  0/  whom  you  spoke  the  other  day  has 
become  bankrupt;"  more  lit.  "As-for^  the  curio-dealer^ 
of*  the  honourable*  speaking^  former-day^  it  is**  ap- 
pearance" that  he  at-last^  has-become"  to'  bank- 
ruptcy*." 

Kesa^  no^  yosu^  de^  wa^,furu^  ka^  to^  omottara^,  suk- 
kari^^  haremashita^^f  i.e.  "  The  weather,  which  looked 
like  rain  this  morning,  has  cleared  up  beautifully ;  " 
more  lit.  **  By*  appearance^  of*  this-morning*  when-(I) 
had-thought'  that*  **Will-(it)  rain  ?M,"  quite"  (it)  has- 
cleared".*' 

Kono^  kuruma^  moto^  wa^  jobu^  de^,  taihen'  ni^  yo^  go- 
zaimashtta^^  ga^^, — twa"  wa^^furuku^^  natte^^y  sapparV^ 
yaku^''  np^  fatanaku^^  narimashtta^'^,  i.e.     **  This  jinrikT- 
sha,  which  used  to  be  such  a  good  solid  one,  is  now  quite 
old  and  useless  ;  "  more  lit.  „  This*  jinrikisha*,  whereas" 
originally^,  being^  solid, ^  it  was"  extraordinarily^*^  good', 
now"    having-become'5   old^*,   (it)   has-become*°    quite** 
rising-not*'  to*^  usefulness*'." 
H  86.  The  words  tokoro  nOy  lit.  "  of  place,"  are  often  used  by 
the  upper  classes  in  relative  phrases  as  a  sort  of  substitute 
for  the  relative  pronouns  " who,"   "which,"  and   "that." 
But  these  words  really  add  nothing  to  the  sense,  and  only 
encumber  the  construction.     They  owe  their  origin  to  the 
slavish  imitation  of  a  Chinese  idiom.  Thus  : 
Kuru  tokoro  no  hito^  for  Kuru  hito. 

Kino  kita  tokoro  no  hito,     „    Kino  kita  hito. 
Shinakucha  naran  tokoro    ,,    Shinakucha  naran 

no  koto  desuy  koto  desii. 

(For  the  translation  of  these  phrases  see  p.  54.) 


CHAPTER    V. 

TJie  Postposition. 


THE    POSTPOSITION    PROPER. 

IF  87.  Japanese  postpositions  correspond  for  the  most  part 
to  English  prepositions,  serving  like  them  to  indicate 
those  relations  of  words  which  Latin,  German,  and 
other  Aryan  languages  of  the  older  type  denote  by  the  use 
of  case  inflections. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  postpositions,  viz.  postpositions 
proper  and  quasi-postpositions  (H  141  et  seq,). 

The     postpositions    proper,    with    their    most    usual 
significations,  are  as  follows : 

DE. 

f,  88.  De  has  two  widely  different  uses.  One  is  to  render  the 
sense  of  "by,"  whence  also  "with,"  "by  means  of,"  less 
often  "  in."  This  its  first  acceptation  offers  no  difficulty. 
In  its  second  acceptation,  de  seems  at  first  sight  to  mean, 
nothing  at  all,  and  thus  puzzles  the  foreign  student  who  is 
desirous  of  accounting  for  its  presence  in  the  sentence. 
De  is  here  etymologically  a  corruption  of  nite,  itself  the 
gerund  of  an  obsolete  substantive  verb.  Its  proper  sense 
is  therefore  "  being."  But  in  most  contexts  this  de  has 
sunk  so  completely  to  the  level  of  a  mere  grammatical  par- 
ticle, as  not  to  need  translating  into  English.  It  is  a  moot 
point  whether  what  was  originally  one  word  has  branched 
out  into  these  two  significations,  or  whether  two  words  ori- 
ginally distinct  have  coalesced  into  a  single  particle.  Here 
are  a  few  examples  oi de  meaning  " by,"  "with,"  ** in:" 


DE. 


6l 


Nawa^  de*  shibaru^, 
Hasami^  de*   kiru^, 

Inu     wo    kusari   de 
WMog  {accus,)y  chain    ^y* 
tsunaide    oke ! 

fm§t€uiug   pnt ! 


"To  tie3  by  means  oP  a  rope'." 
**To  cut3  with*  scissors*." 


"Chain  up  the  dog!" 
(Said  to  a  coolie.) 


Kore  de     gatnan  wasat /f"  Please  be  contented  with 

rhia  Mtithy  pmii€Hee  ^iW^M /jthis." 


Kono  kawa  de^   at 

Vhia  river    iut    iront 

tsuremasu  ka  ? 

0tr^e€it€k€ibie   f 


ga     \ 

(nom.j['*ATe  there  any  trout  to  be. 
I  caught  in  this  stream  ?  " 


)' 


"What  is  this  called  in 


Kono        mono        wa, 
arw,         tiding       -it-for.     [Japanese?" 
Nthon-go  de  nan    to   {''  \         ,.  .    ,. 

^mpi^m^immgnagB  *y,  ^i^i  ihmi  f      (^^''^  ^»^-     "  ^8  for  this  thing. 
moshimasu    ka  ?  in  Japanese,  what  do  people  say 

««y  f  /  that  it  is  ?  *') 

It  will  be  gathered  from  these  examples  that  de  has  its 
first  signification  ("by,"  "with,"  "in")  chiefly  when 
construed  with  transitive  verbs. 

De  has  its  second  signification,  i.e.,  it  properly  means 
"  being,"  in  such  cases  as  the  following: — 


I  ma  no   kuruma-ya     wa, 

JVow  *t  JimriltiBigatnitH  aa^for, 

dajaku      de,         yaku  ni, 

iminteHi    keiHgt   9§gefnlHe»»        to 

tatanai, 

aitu^wmoi* 

Yoppodo    heppin  de 

Very     exirafualittf  beimg 

aru, 

ia. 


"  My  present  jinrikisha- 
man  is  no  good, — he  is  so 
indolent." 

(More  lit,  **  The  present  jinri- 
klsha-man,  being  indolent,  is  of 
no  use.") 

"  She  is  an  uncommonly 
pretty  girl." 

(More  lit,    **  She  is  being  a 
very  extra  quality.") 


San-ji        han     de 

Vhree'httra     itaif  beiug 

masu. 


gozat'^      uj^    is    (being)  half- 


ia. 


\  past  three." 


62  THE    POSTPOSITION. 

The  first  of  these  phrases  illustrates  a  construction  with 
what  are  called  "  quasi-adjectives,"  which  will  be  touched 
on  again  in  H  200,  and  exemplified  in  H  201  (examples  9  and 
10).  The  second  and  third  phrases  are  much  more  impor- 
tant, showing,  as  they  do,  the  most  usual  manner  of  expres- 
sing our  verb  **  to  be,"  viz,  by  means  cide  aru,  de  arimasuj 
de  gozaitnasu  (see  also  IF  341  et  seq,),  De  aru  is  com- 
monly contracted  to  da,  de  gozaitnasu  to  desu,  less  often 
and  somewhat  vulgarly  to  de  gozansu,  de  gesU,  or  de 
gasu  ;  similarly  in  the  other  tenses,  for  instance  datta  for 
de  atta,  deshUa  for  de  gozaimashlta,  and  so  on  (see  also 
HIT  233,  270,  343,  and  344).  The  foregoing  examples 
would  therefore  generally  become  Yoppodo  heppin  da, 
San-ji  han  desu.  The  following  is  a  very  common 
phrase  illustrating  this  idiom : 

Sayo  de  gozaitnasu.      \ ,,  ^,       .         „  .        ,,  ^     „ 
Sodesu.     (Less formal.))      ^^^^^isso,    i.e.,      Yes. 

IF  8g.  It  happens  not  infrequently  that  de,  in  both  its  accep- 
tations, is  strengthened  by  means  of  the  postposition  wa, 
especially  in  phrases  expressing  interrogation,  negation, 
or  something  disagreeable.  De  wa,  in  familiar  talk,  is  apt 
to  be  contracted  into^a.   Thus: 


Yoppodo    heppin  de 

V*«r|f     exira^quaHiy  being 

wa  nai    ka  ? 

ia-HOt     f 

Kore  de    wa      oki  ni   ko- 

VhU  bff  indeed  greaity   «mm- 

tnarimasu, 

iu^a-quoHdarff, 


**  Isn't  she  very  pretty  ?*' 


(Or,  Yoppodo  heppin  j a  nai 
ka  ' 


**  I  am  greatly  bothered 
by  this.'*  (Or,  Kore  ja  oki 
ni  komarifnasU,) 


ir  90.  When  the  substantive  verb  has  a  qualifying  word  or 
phrase  along  with  it  after  de,  the  noun  followed  by  de  often 
corresponds  to  an  English  nominative, — not  that  de  has 


DE   AND    GA.  63 

any  nominative  force  properly  so  called,  but  because  the 
word  which  we  treat  as  a  nominative  is  conceived  of  by 
the  Japanese  as  the  means  whereby,  or  the  place  in  which, 
the  action  or  state  denoted  by  the  verb  takes  place,  for 
instance : 

Mizu  de  taku'  \  u  QqI^  ^^ter  will  do  perfectly 
cota^aierbw,  (it  will  be)  .^^j,  » ( j^^  ..you  need  not  trouble 
^^'^  )  to  bring  hot  water  as  well)." 

N.  B.  The  Japanese  sentence  should,  properly  speaking,  have  daUy 
*'  it  is,"  stuck  on  to  the  end  of  it;  but,  as  will  be  further  illustrated 
in  IT  429,  the  final  verb  is  often  omitted  when  no  ambiguity  is  likely 
to  ensue. 


Hitotsu  de  yoroshii, 
(More  politely  Hitotsu  de  yoroskiu  gozaimasu,) 


*' One  will  be 
enough.'* 


Seifu  de  o  /"The   Government  has 

Gpverumeui      *y,  hou^mrtibte pnr»  ]  bought  it,"     or   "  It   has 

kai-age  ni  narimashita,  Ibeen   purchased   by  the 

ehoMe     to     *fl«-ft««#iM«.  I  Government." 


GA. 
IT  91.  The  original  sense  of  ga  is  "  of,"  now  only  preserved 
in  names  of  places  and  in  a  few  locutions,  such  as  Hoshi- 
ga-oka,  "  The  Mound  of  the  Stars  "  (the  name  of  a  part  of 

Kamakura); ga  suki^  "fond  of,"  "liking;" ga 

Atrai,  "  not  fond  of,"  "disliking;" ga  hoshii^ 

"desirous  of." 


Watakushi   wa    tahako  ga   dai- 

suki     (desu). 
r»Hd     (mm). 

Sake  ga    kirai  desu. 

Sake  •fi  uot'f^nd  mm* 

Mizu  ga  hoshiU  gozaimasu. 


I 


am    very 
of    smok- 


fond 
ing." 


"  I      am     not 
fond   of  sake.** 

"  I  want  some 
water.*' 


64  THE    POSTPOSITION. 

If  92.  Ga  is  used  as  a  sign  of  the  nominative  case,  as : 

Kane     ga     nai,  (     ** There    is  no  money;" 

•Vo»«y  («om.)  iMn'i.  [hence^  "I  have  no  money." 

Ame    ga    futte  kimashlta.  **  It  has  come  on  to  rain." 

Mmim  (nom,)  fmitimg  hat' 


Kono   kuruma     ga   furU'\ 

rhiwjittrihiMhm  (mm.)  being']      *^  This  jifirikisha   won't 
kute  ikemasen.  f  do  ;  it  is  too  old." 

Isha    ni    mite    morau  \      «<You   had    better   consult 

FkwieiaH  bff,  teeiug  io'-reeeive  I  the   doCtOr  about  it." 

g^  yokaro.  I         ^3^0^^  in^    u  It  „^y  be  well  to  get  (it) 

(nom,)  wiUmprobabtirbe'good.     )     seen  by  the  doctor.") 

c  _«  •  .         r  v^  (     **  The  teacher  has   ap- 

Senset  ga  mumashtta.  { ^^^^^^„  .^^  ^^^  ^^^^  ^ 

Observe  that  the  nominative  use  has  developed  out  of 
the  genitive.  For  instance,  the  etymological  significa- 
tion oiKane  ga  nai  is  **  The  not-being  of  money ;  "  that  of 
Sensei  ga  miem^ashita  is  "  The  having- apppeared  of  the 
teacher."  Originally  none  of  these  sentences  with  ga 
were  predicative.  Modern  usage  alone  has  made  them 
so,  just  as,  to  borrow  an  apt  illustration  from  Mr.  Aston, 
the  incomplete  sentences  of  an  English  telegram  or 
advertisement  convey  a  predicative  sense  to  the  mind  of 
the  reader.  Observe  too,  from  the  example  Isha  ni  mite 
morau  ga  yokaro,  that  postpositions  may  be  sufExed  to 
verbs  as  readily  as  to  substantives,  and  that  verbs,  and 
indeed  whole  phrases,  may  form  the  subject  or  object  of 
other  verbs. 

II  93.  When  found  at  the  end  of  a  clause,  ga  has  an  adver- 
sative force,  of  which  "whereas"  is  the  most  literal 
English  equivalent,  but  which  is  generally  best  rendered 


GA. 


65 


in  practice  by  prefixing  "yet"  or  "but"  to  the  following 
clause.  Sometimes  the  adversative  force  is  softened 
down  to  a  mere  intimation  of  discontinuity  between  two 
successive  states  or  actions,  and  then  ga  must  be  trans- 
lated by  **  and  so  **  or  "  and." 

N.  B.  The  final  u  of  tnasii  revives  pretty  distinctly  before  ^a,  for 
which  reason  we  write  it  masu  in  all  such  examples. 


Shina    wa   yoroshiu  gozaimasu\ 

tMriiete  aff^r^    go9d  i§ 

V         ga, —     nedan    ga     osoroshii    tako 

vpherea»%  price  fnom.J.    frigkiful   high 

gozaimasu, 
i§. 


"The  article  is  a 
good  one,  but  the 
price  is  frightfully 
hi^h.'* 


N.  B.  Osoroshiu  takd,  **  frightful/y  high,"  would  be  more  gram- 
matical. But  custom  has  almost  sanctioned  such  expressions  as 
osoroshii  takai^  at  least  in  familiar  conversation. 


Yama-michi       de      hi  wa  ^ 

Jlf«wMlaiM-r0«4#       iut      daff       mM'^ar^ 

kuremashita  ga, —      tsure        ga 

darkened  tvheremt,  e»»npaui0ut  {nam.) 

ozei       datta      kara,       ki-johu 

ermwd        wgere   beeaujte,     apirii^Miurd^ 

deshita, 
(we)  mere*  . 


"  It  got  dark  while 
we  were  on  the 
mountain  side ;  hut, 
as'  we  were  several 
of  us  together,  we 
felt  no  alarm." 


Watakushi     wa     kon-do     de  \ 

JVLe  at'for,  thit  tiane    hff, 

Fuji     ye     tosan      wa     san- 
J^MMiffama  §0      titeeui  mB'fort  third 

dO'tne   desu  ga, — shi-awase   to 

iUme         it    wghereaM,       imehilp 

itsu  mo         tenki-tsugo         ga 

mtm^Wa  wemther^eirenrnttiaHceM  {nom,) 
yd  gozaimasu. 
go»d  mre» 

II  94.  Sometimes  ga  with  this  adversative  force  is  repeated 
in  two  consecutive  clauses,  as : 


"This  is  the  third 
time  I  have  made 
the  ascent  of  Fusi- 
yama,  and  I  have 
each  time  been  lucky 
enough  to  have  fine 
weather." 


66 


THE    POSTPOSITION. 


Bankoku-koho  ga        aro      \ 

iHiemaUoHomawt  (nom.)  amm§fexi$i 

ga,        nani        ga       aro 
though^'-aomeihiuig  (nom.)  amajf^xiMi 

ga, — mada  mada  dori  bakari 

ihanghj'atiii   bMB    Hghi    ^uiff 

de     wa     katsu     koto     ga 
hff^         conquer         aeiion  (nom.) 
dekimasen. 


"We  may  have  inter- 
national law,  and  we 
may  have  all  sorts  of 
fine  things ;  but  we 
^are  still  very  very  far 
from  having  arrived 
at  a  social  state  in 
which       right       always 


triumphs." 

Sometimes  ga  occurs  elliptically  at  the  end  of  an  un- 
finished sentence.  See,  for  examples,  those  given  about 
the  middle  of  ^  287. 


KA.  i 

IT  95.  Ka  serves  to  ask  a  question,  as : 


Arimasu. 
Arimasu  ka  ? 

Furo^  wa^  dekimashita^. 


"  There  is." 
"  Is  there  ?  " 

"The  bath  is  ready." 
(More  lit,  "  As-for*  the  bath.i 
it  is  done."3) 


Furo  wa  dekimashita  ka  ?        "  Is  the  bath  ready  ?  " 

If  the  sentence  already  contains  some  other  interro- 
gative word — an  interrogative  pronoun  or  adverb, — ka  is 
often  omitted,  and  it  is  generally  best  to  omit  it,  thus : 


Nan-doki  ni  mairimasho  ka  ? 

"WhaUhoHr  mi     »hail'Come      f 

or  Nati'doki  ni  mairimasho  ? 
Itsu    shinimashtta  (ka)  P  f« 

Vf*ken  died  t  \ 


"  At  what  o'clock  shall 
I  come  ? " 


When  did  he  die  ? " 


Do      iu     wake     de     konna    ^  ^  why  do  you  do  such 

baka  na   koto   wo  sum?  f"y^*^^"^^^^  ^^^^• 

fooiUh  ihiHgM  (accus.)  Oo  9  ]  {^""'^  ^^  «»  tnferzor.) 


KA.  67 

^  96.  Sometimes  ka  expresses  a  merely  rhetorical  or  ironi- 
cal question,  sometimes  nothing  beyond  a  mere  shade  of 
doubt.  In  the  latter  case  it  corresponds  to  such  English 
words  as  **  may,"  *'  might,"  **  perhaps : " 

Aru  mono   ka?\     "Who  in  his   senses  would   ever 
jBxuu  thiMg     f     )  believe  that  such  a  thing  exists  ?  " 


Mata  yuki  ga     .  furimasho 

•Mgain  tuotv  {nom.)  wtiii-pr^babt^fati 

to    omoimasu, 
that       tMmk, 

Mata  yuki  ga        furimasho 
ka    to    omowaremasu, 

f    thai        ean'thiuU* 


"I  think  it  will 
snow  again." 

"  I  am  inclined  to 
think  ^  that  it  may 
snow  again." 


Su'uki    to         iu        hUo.      <<  A  man  called  Suzuki." 
SMznki  thmi  (they)  emit  per§0M. 

Suzuki   to    ka  iu    hito,    i     "A  man  called,  if  I. 

SnsuM  thai    f    (they)  eaii  per9»H.\miS\,ake    not,    Suzuki." 

IF  97.  iiTa ka    means    "or,"     **  either or," 

"whether or  :  " 


(i. 


Goodt         had      P,  i9^Hk»omabie.\\t  is  gOOd  or  bad." 

Muku  desu  ka,  mekki  desu    [     u  jg  it  all  gold  or  only 
WT^m^ioyedi.     f     piaied    u     J  gilt  ?"  (Or,  "  Is  it  all  silver 


(or  only  plated  ?  ") 

"  I      am      considering 
whether  to  go  or  not  ?  " 


Iko      ka,      do      shiyo     ka 

**Shali'g0    f,        how   thaii'do     f  ** 

to       omotte    imasu, 
,  thai     thinking      am* 

IF  98.  Ka  helps  to  form  certain  indefinite  pronouns  and 
adverbs,  such  as  "  somebody,"  "  something,"  *'  some- 
where."    See  the  paradigm  on  page  50. 


68  THE    POSTPOSITION. 

KARA. 
H  99.  Kara  means  "  from,  "  **  since,  "  "  because,  '*  **  after  :  " 


Koko     kara     toge     made     wa, 

MMere      frotm^     patM         io      iudeedt 

mo     dono     kurai      arimasho  ? 

atUt      WBhai     mm0Mnt   probabl^it  f  ) 


**Howfarmay  it 
be  from  here  to  the 
top  of  the  pass  ?  " 


/     "For  the  last  two 
Ni-san-nen-zen      kara     hito     or         three        years 

Vwrn-ihree-yemr^efcre  BiH€e,p€opie    people       have       been 
ga       fu-ketkt     da  to    ttmasu  ]        •  ^^^^       ^^^ 

ga.^honto    desuka?  ^^"^^^    are    bad.      Is 

Jiereaa^^ime      4a        ?  thlS  really  the 

\case  ? 


Kutabiremashita     kara,     chotto 

MMnve'goi'tired     beeaiwae,  a^Uiiie 

yasumtmasho. 

wtiti-prohaihift^eai. 


"  I  am  tired  ;  (so) 
let  us  rest  a  minute." 


N.  B.  Many  speakers  say  kara  shite  (shtte  is  the  gerund  of  suru^ 
"to  do")  for  kara\  others  say  kara  ni.  The  phrase  mono  desu  kara 
or  mon*  desU  kara^  lit.  "  because  (it)  is  thing,"  is  another  favourite 
circumlocution  having  the  meaning  of  "  because."  The  noun  yue^ 
lit.  "cause,"  or yue  nif  almost  lit.  "because,"  is  also  in  use,  though 
perhaps  sounding  just  a  trifle  old-fashioned  and  stiff. 

H  100.  Kara  only  has  the  sense  of  **  after  "  when  suffixed 

to  the  gerund  in  te,  and  in  a  few  special  locutions,  as : 

Itte  karay  "  After  going,"  **  after  having  gone." 

Mimashite  kara,     "  After  seeing,"  "  after  having  seen." 

Kore  kara,  **  After  this,"      **  henceforward." 

Sore  kara,  "  After  that,"      "  and  then,"  "  next." 

N.  B.  The  past  itta  kara  means  "  because  he  has  gone ;  "  mimashita 

kara  means  "  because  I  have  seen.  "     Be  very  careful  not  to  confuse 

these  two  locutions,  which  differ  only  by  the  use  of  the  gerund  in  e 

when  "  after  "  is  meant,  and  of  the  past  tense  in  a  when  "  because  " 

is  meant. 


KARA,    MADE,   AND   MO. 


69 


does  the  lecture  begin 
to-morrow  ? — At  two 
o'clock  in  the  after- 
noon." 


N.  B,  The  Japanese  often  use  *'  from  "  fkara^  sometimes  yorij, 

when  "  at  "  or  ••  by  *'  would  come  more  naturally  to  English  lips,  as : 

Myonichi    no  enzetsu     wa,        nan-ji        (     **  At  what  o'clock 

kara  hajimarimasu  ?  — Go-go  ni-ji 

from      hegiuB  f    JVoon^mfier    iwo'MourM 
kara    desU, 
from  (ii)  49. 

The  idea  is  that  the  lecture,  beginning  as  it  does  at  two  o'clock, 
will  last  from  two  to  some  other  hour  not  named. — Observe  how  the 
Japanese  idiom  retains  '  the  verb  **  it  is  *'  (desu)  at  the  end  of  the 
sentence,  while  English  dispenses  with  it.  A  siitiilar  instance  octlirs 
in  the  second  example  given  under  made. 

MADE. 

ir  loi.  Made  means  "  till, "  "  as  far  as,  "  "  down  to,  "  "  to :  " 
Kore  made.  "  Thus  far,"  "  hitherto,"  "  till  now." 

Tetsudo    wa,    doko  made>^ 

XaHwmff  aa^foTf  where  to 

dekite      orimasu,  ? — Sendai 

done  i$  f  Sendai 

made  desu, 

aa^far'aB  4s. 

Watakushi  no  kuru  made 

JfTe  .       of  eome     iittf 

matte     ite     kudasai. 

waiiiHg  heimg  eoMdeBeend. 


How  far  is  the  railway 
-finished  ? — As  far  as  Sen- 
dai." 


"  Please  wait  till  I  come." 
{More  lit.  till  my  coming.) 


Itsu^  made^  mo^. 


("Ever  so  long,"   ** forever." 
{(Lit,  even'  tilP  when.") 


(**  Even  so  far,"  "for  any  dis- 
(tance."    (Lit.  even3  till*  where.') 


t 


Doko^  made*  mo^. 

N.  B.  For  made  ni  in  the  sense  of  *•  by,"  see  N.  B.  at  end  of  IT  136. 
MO,- 

IF  102.  Mo  means  "even,"  "also,"  "and,"  "too."  When 
repeated,  mo mo  means  "  both and  :  " — 

*  Not  to  be  confounded  with  the  adverb  md,  for  which  see  U  373. 


70  THE   POSTPOSITION^. 

J.  ,  f  lit.     "  Even  till  when,"  ue., 

Itsumademo.  {..forever." 

Watakishi  mo  mairimasH.     "  I  will  go  too." 

Kore  mo,       wasurecha       w.  And  you  mustn't  forget 


this   either;"    or    "Nor 
must  you  forget  this." 


ikemasen. 

Ka  mo  nomi  mo  ("it  is  a  place  where  there 

Mcvrtue,    «t,„  nem.  «*".lare  plenty  both  of  mos- 

o»         tohoro  desu.  (quitoes  and  of  fleas." 


Nat     koto  mo  gozaimasen. 

JY'0i'being  fact  aito         it'HOi. 


"  It  cannot  be  said  that 
there  are  none,"  or  "  There 
are  certainly  some." 


(This  is  a  very  common  idiom.) 

Construed  with  a  negative  verb,  mo mo  means 

**  neither nor,"  thus: 

Yoku  mo  waruku  mo  nai.     j**It  is  neither  good  nor 

Oo9d  aitOt    bad       ai»Q  ia'uoi*    (bad." 

Mo  is  sometimes  placed  after  ka,  when  the  latter  means 
"perhaps"  (see  IF 96).  It  retains  in  Japanese  some- 
thing of  its  proper  force  of  "  even,"  but  can  hardly  be 
represented  in  the  English  translation,  thus : 

Mata     rai-nen       kuru  ka  ( 

^gaiH  eomiug^ew  come  f  ]     "  Perhaps  I  may  come 
mo  shir ema sen,  -  1  again  next  year." 

evcM  canu^i'kuom,  \ 

N.  B.  For  mo  serving  to  form  expressions  analogous  to  the  con- 
cessive mood,  see  H  289. 

MOTTE. 

IT  103.  Motte,  properly  the  gerund  of  the  verb  motsu,  **  to 

hold,"  is  in  Written  Japanese  the  usual  word  for  "  by," 

**  thereby."     In  the  Colloquial  it  survives  only  as  a  sort 

of  emphatic  particle,  which  is  moreover  little  used  except 


MOTTE   AND    NI.  7 1 

/ 

by  old-fashioned  speakers.  Thus  hanahada  motte  is  the 
same  as  hanahada^  "  very,"  but  emphasised  ;  ima  motte 
may  be  rendered  by  "  even  now,"  or  by  the  help  of  some 
such  word  as  "  very,"  thus  : 

Mukashi      kara  ima    motte    r     "It  is  a  shop  which 

^Hciemi'iime  rr0m,  now     indeed,    j^^g  carried  On  a  gOOd 

at^hawarazn  yoku     J  trade  from  old  times 

mninaUf^eUmnging^noi      ^ell       K  ^ 

ureru  mise       desu.  rj      ,,  -^ 

M€lls{intrans.)    $hop  4s.  Vday. 

N.  B.  Ait  the  equivalent  of  our  word  *'  mutually,^'  is  often  thus 
prefixed  to  verbs  by  pedantic  speakers.  It  is  a  relic  of  the  Book 
Language,  and  has  little  or  no  meaning  now.  This  sentence  is  a  good 
example  of  the  apparent  ambiguity  of  relative  constructions  in 
Japanese,  which  was  pointed  out  in  H  82.  The  speaker  of  course 
means  to  say  that  the  thingi  in  the  shop  sell  well ;  but  he  seems  to 
say  that  it  is  the  shop  itself  which  sells  well. 

When  de  is  used  in  the  sense  of  "  by  "  or  "  with,*' 
motte  is  often  suffixed  to  it  by  all  classes  of  speakers,  thus  : 

Hocho      de    (motte)    kiru.  ^      «  To  cut  with  a  knife." 

SLnire        hff  io'cui.  j 

Nawa  de  (motte)  shibaru.  \     a  -po  tie  with  a  rope." 

Mt0pe    b9  to'iie.      ' 


Kaze  de  (motte)  to      ga 

lUfMdf  *y,  doer  (nom,) 

aotte      imasu. 

BiaamtmiHg      ia, 

(For  NA  see  H  197.) 


"  The  door  keeps 
slamming  on  account 
of  the  wind." 


NI. 
I1  104.  The  original  sense  of  ni  is  ''in,"  "into,"  *'to  ": 
Kono  hen  ni       kiji      .      u^re    there    no 

wa      tmasen      ka?  j  neighbourhood  ? " 


72  THE    POSTPOSITION. 

Kono     kamo       wo      ryori-nin  \      "  please  give  this 

rhUy^iil§^eh(accus,),e00k^er.0H\^^^^^^^^^      tO      the 

m    watashite  kuaasat,  ^  „ 

f9,     hmndiHg   e0Hde»eemilL  ^ 

{"  This  is  the  first  time  I 
have  had  the  honour  to  meet 
vou." 
(A  phrase  which  it  is  considered 
polite  to  use  when  introduced  to 
some  one.) 

IT  105.  Ni  has   many  other  idiomatic  uses,  of  which  the 

following  are  the  chief,  viz. 

With  a  passive  verb,  ni  corresponds  to  "by,"    thus: 


Osoroshiku  domo  ka 

Frightfmtitg  reailfff  tmQ§qm4t0es 

ni  sasaremashita. 

by  hare-been^tiumg. 


"}Oh!  I  have  been 
■frightfully  stung  by  the 
mosquitoes." 


Ante    ni  furi-komeraremashitaA      "  We  were  kept  in 
JBaiM    by  merchept-in.  "[by  the  rain." 

A  kindred  idiom  is  found  in  the  ni  corresponding  to 
our  "  by  "  or  "  with,"  in  such  phrases  as : 


Me    ni     tniru     mono, 

Xye§  by,      »ee         ihirnggf 

mimi    ni    kiku    mono. 

eoTM      by,    hear    ihingB. 


"What  one  sees  with 
one's  eyes,  and  hears  with 
one's  ears." 


H  106.  With  a  causative  verb,  ni  denotes  the  person  who 
is  caused  to  perform  the  action,  thus  : 

^  I  will  make  the  boy  look 


(         1 
fo    't 


If  107.  Suffixed  to  the  indefinite  form  of  a  verb,  ni  means 
"  (in  order)  to  "  thus  : 

Ueno  no  ^  sakura         ^      ..  j   ^^^^    ^^    ^^    ^^    ^^^ 

wo^^mi  'ni  "Ikitai"^'  \^^^       cherry-blossoms       at 
(accus.)  Bee  §0  mpaHi-icgQ.       J  ^^no. 


NI  AND  NO.  73 

N.  B,  It  18  only  with  the  indefinite  fonn  of  the  verb  that  ni 
has  this  meaning.  When,  as  often  happens,  it  follows  the  present 
tense  used  as  an  infinitive,  it  preserves  its  original  force,  thus : 

Michi      ga      warukute,     aruku     ni  .     ..  ^.  , 

hone      ga        oremasu.  I  walking" 

b0meM  (nom.)  hreuk  (intrans).  '  waiKing. 

Mada     neru    ni     wa  hayai.     \     /'It  is  still  too  early 

SiUi49'Bteep  to  ma^for^  (}*i^)  0«rly.)  to  go  to  bed." 

IT  108.    Ni   suffixed  to  nouns  serves  to  form  expressions 
corresponding  to  European  adverbs,  as  : 

daiji,  "  importance,"  "  care ;  "  daiji  ni,  "  carefully." 
hetUy    "  a  bad  hand  (at) ;  "  heta  nty   "  unskilfully." 

itnay     **  the  present  moment,"  ima  ni^    "  presently." 
"  now ; " 
jozu,    "  a  good  hand  (at) ;  "      jozu  ni,    "  skilfully." 
rippa,  "  splendour ;  "  rippa  ni,  "  splendidly. " 

(See  also  II  64.) 

IF  109.    When    several    things    are    enumerated,    ni  often 
means  "  besides  the  foregoing,"  "  and : " 

(Lit.  Besides*  beer^,  be- 
sides* wine',  we -will -go' 
carrying^  gun-water',  i.e., 
"We  will  take  beer,  claret, 
and  soda-water." 

Hana^  wa^  sakura^  ni^,  f  "  The  cherry  is  the  king  of 
hito^  wa^  6w5/tf'.  (A proverb.H  flowers,  and  the  warrior  the 

(king  of  men." 

Lit.  As-for*  flowers*,  (the  best  is)  the  cherry-blos- 
som3 ;  and-to-the-foregoing-it-may-be-added-that*,  as-for* 
human-beings^  (the  best  are)  warriors^. 

NO. 

IT  no.  No  means  "  of,"  or  denotes  the   possessive  case: 


74  THE    POSTPOSITION. 


Amerikd^  no*  Daiioryd^.       i     "The  President^  oP 

(the  United  States*." 

Neko^  no*  tsume^.  "  A  cat''s*  claws^." 

Ari^  no*  mama^.     (Ari   is)     Lit.     "Way   of   be 


the  indefinite  form  of  the  verb 
aru,  "  to  be.") 

Katta  hakari  no    ' 

shina. 
article. 


ing,"  i.e,f   "Just  as   it 
is." 


"  Something  I  have  only  just 
bought."  (More  lit.  "An  article 
of  quite  recent  buying.") 


We  have  already  noticed,  when  treating  of  the  post- 
position ga^  the  genitive  origin  of  many  apparently  nomi- 
native expressions  in  Japanese.  The  same  tendency  is 
exemplified  by  wo,  though  less  frequently  in  the  Colloquial 
than  in  the  Written  Language,  thus : 


'  "It  is  dangerous  to 
cross  the  line  when 
the  train  is  passing." 


Kisha  no  tsuko  sum  tokiy  senro 

Vraim     *»  pma»mge  doe»  iim^e^      Hue 

wo        yokogitcha  abunai.     .  ^ o- 

(accus.)  a$'rmr'€r0t$iHg,{is)  dMHirer&usMMore  lit.  "at  the 
(It  would  be  more  polite  to  say  abuno  go- 1  time  of  the  passing 
'^i»^^^')  iof  the  train  "). 

IT  HI.  No  is  used  in  attributive  phrases  either  in  lieu  of, 
or  suffixed  to,  the  other  postpositions,  it  being  a  rule 
that  none  of  the  postpositions  excepting  no  can  show 
the  relation  between  two  nouns  in  such  phrases.  An 
example  or  two  will  make  this  clearer : 

(i)  Konoura  niike    ga  gozaimasu.i    "There  is  a  pond 
rkiB  hmeh  in,p0Hd  (nom.)        4:        |at  the  back  of  this." 

(2)  Kono  ura  no  ike  wa  aso  gozai-i     "  The   pond  at  the 
masu.  {back  of  this  is  shallow. 


(3)  Kuni   kara   dempo    ga  kitnashita. 

Country  fromt  ieiegrmm  (nom.)  tuU'C&tme. 


"  I  have  re- 
ceived a  telegram 
from  home." 


NO.  7S 

{^)  Kuni  kara  no  dempo.         "  A  telegram  from  home." 

In  the  above  predicative  phrases  (the  first  and  third), 
each  English  preposition  is  rendered  by  the  Japanese  post- 
position properly  corresponding  to  it.  But  turn  the 
phrase  attributively  (the  second  and  fourth),  and  no  either 
supplants,  or  is  suffixed  to,  that  postposition  {no  for  ni  in 
the  second,  kara  no  for  kara  in  the  fourth). 

In  this  manner  no,  "of,"  comes  to  express  almost 
every  idea  of  relation ;  or  rather  all  the  various  ideas  of 
relation  come  to  be  summed  up  by  the  Japanese  mind 
under  the  one  idea  of  "  of;  "  thus : 

Atami  no  onsen.  "The  hot  springs  at  Atami.*' 

Fuji  no  yuki,  "  The  snow  on  Fuji." 

*^  Nichi-Nichi''    no    sAa- J "  The  leading  article  in  the 
setsu.  ("Daily  News.'" 

Oya  no  mo.  "  The  mourning/or  a  parent." 

Wahoku  no  dampan.         "Deliberations  about  peace." 

Korera-hyo  no  yoho.  **Precautionsfl^a/ns^  cholera." 

Even  the  idea  of  apposition  finds  its  place  under  this 

heading,  for  instance : 
Kerai  no  Tosuke.  "  His  retainer  T6suke." 

Indeed  apposition  is  often  expressed  in  English  by  a 

similar  idiom  with  "  of,"  as  when  we  say 

"  The  province  of  Yamato."    Yamato  no  kuni. 
IF  112.    No  is    used    substantively    with    the    meaning    of 
the  English  word   "one"  or  "ones"   (see  also  H  137), 
thus : 

Warui  no.       "A  bad  one." 
yohu  na  no.    "A  solid  one." 

N.  B.  Fojr  the  na  otjohu  na^  see  If  197. 


■**. 


76  THE   POSTPOSITION. 

Kore     wa       ii  ^  no    da.       1      « This  is  a  good  one." 
rt  ^  ,.  .^         J    ^  (     *' It  is  a  thing  I  have 

Bow'jmanM  Utme§  eren^  mow  9me    4m.       ..  ,,    "^ 

^times. 
Under  this  heading,  note  the  following  specimens  of  a 
curious  idiom : 

Inshi^  no^  furui^  no^y  as  lit.  as  possible,  "old'  ones*  of* 
stamps","  i.e.,  "stamps  that  are  old,"  hence  "some  old 
stamps." 

KwashP  no*-  shinki^  ni^  yaita^  no^y  as  lit.  as  possible, 
"in*  newness'  have-burnt^  one^  of*  cake%  i.e.,  "a  cake 
that  has  been  freshly  baked,"  or  more  simply,  "a  freshly 
baked  cake." 

There  is  just  the  shadow  of  a  shade  of  difference  in 
intention  between  these  circumlocutions  and  the  simpler 
expressions 

Furui  insht.  "  Old  stamps." 

Shinki  niyaita  kwashu  "  A  freshly  baked  cake." 
IT  113.  No  often  serves  to  form  expressions  corresponding 
to  English  adjectives,  as  Nikon  no,  "of  Japan,"  i.e., 
"Japanese"  (see  IT  62,  and  IT  197  et  seq,).  Sometimes,  in 
quite  familiar  talk,  it  occurs  as  a  final  particle  with 
a  certain  emphatic  force,  corresponding  to  that  of  the 
Colloquial  English  phrase  "  and  so  there ! "  or  "  and 
what  do  you  think  of  that  I "  A  good  example  of  this 
occurs  towards  the  end  of  this  Handbook,  in  Chap.  II  of 
the  " Botan-dorOy*  in  the  conversation  between  O  Yone 
and  ShijO,  where  attention  is  drawn  to  it  by  a  foot-note. 
ir  114.  At  other  times, — and  this  is  a  very  favourite 
idiom, — no  is  employed  as  a  kind  of  equivalent  for  the 
word  koto  meaning  "act,"  "fact."  This  construction  is 
specially  apt  to  occur  in  conjunction  with  the  substan- 


NO   AND   DANO.  77 

tive  verb  da  or  desu,  and  is  generally  best  rendered  in 
English  by  the  phrase  "  it  is  that,"  or  "  is  it  that  ?  " 
For  instance,  a  man  has  made  an  appointment,  but 
a  note  comes  from  him  about  the  time  he  is  ex- 
pected to  arrive.  One  of  the  bystanders,  observing 
this,  says : 

Konai  no        daro,       f     "  I  suppose  it  is  that  he 

'MW*iii^H0i-e0me  /Vief  f9r«*adlflr-<«.  |  isn't  Coming." 

In  such  contexts,  the  word  no  may  be,  and  in  familiar 
conversation  generally  is,  clipped  of  its  vowel,  so  that  it 
sinks  into  the  single  letter  n\  Thus  the  above  example 
might  equally  well  be  Konai  «'  daro,  or  more  politely 
Konai  n'desho  (conf.  H  343-4). 

Nani     wo  sum  n'    desii?'     '*What  is  it  that  you 
Whai  (accus.)  do    faei    M         a^e   domg  ? 
Massugu  ni    iku     n'    desu  J     "^"^  ^  ^^  P  straight 

SiraighMw      g.     act       if      |On?        ^^^^    ^^^-    "  Is    it 

]ia  ?  that  I  am  to  go  straight 

?  Ion?" 

Aru     nop         t     "Is  there?"     "Do  you  mean   to 
Im      raei^        I  say  that  there  is." 
N*  B,    As  shown  in  this  last  example,  no  cannot  be  clipped  of  its 
vowel  when  standing  at  the  very  end  of  a  sentence. 

The  exact  force  of  no  preceding  the  verb  da  or 
desu^  may  be  practically  exemplified  by  comparing,  say, 
Nani  wo  shitnasu  ?  "  What  are  you  doing  ?  "  with  Na- 
ni wo  sum  n*  desu?     "What  is  it  that  you  are  doing?" 

ir  115.  The  verb  da,  "is,"  and  the  postposition  no 
combine  to  form  the  word  dano,  which  serves  for  pur- 
poses of  enumeration.  Dano  must,  like  the  Latin  que, 
be  repeated  after  each  of  the  items  enumerated,   thus  : 

Shishi  dano,  tora  dano,)      "Lions,  tigers,  elephants 
z6  dano,   rakuda  dano.     jand  camels." 


78  THP   POSTPOSITION. 

There  is  a  difference  between  dano  and  ni  (see  IT  109) 
used  enumeratively.  Ni  is  simply  copulative,  dano 
conveys  the  idea  of  a  multiplicity  of  objects.  Thys, 
when  a  Japanese  says  sake  dano,  sakana  dano,  kwa$hi 
dano,  he  means  to  convey  to  his  hearers  the  idea  of  a 
variously  assorted  feast,  including  possibly  other  good 
things  besides  the  liquor,  fish,  and  cakes  enumerated. 
But  when  he  says  sake  ni,  sakana  ni,  kwashi,  he  speaks 
of  just  those  three  and  no  more.  Observe,  moreover, 
that  the  word  dano  is  somewhat  vulgar.  The  polite 
equivalent  is  de  gozaimasu  no,  but  this  is  less  often  used. 
No  sometimes  serves  as  an  enumerative  after  other  than 
the  substantive  verbs.     Thus  : — 


Kimi  gd      warukatta    no, 


JWeatiai'feetiHgM  (nom.)     were'bad    and, 

nan     no       to,    osoroshii     me     ni 

wphai    and    thait     fearfui      effe$      #• 

atte  kita.  (Famil.) 

haviHg'tmei  (I)  have'come* 


"  Talk  of  feel- 


ing  frightened 
and  so  forth,  I 
have  had  a  rough 
time  of  it,  I  can 
tell  you." 

N,  B.  NOf  in  its  proper  sense  of  "of,"  is  sometimes  replaced  in 
the  higher  style  by  the  Chinese  word  teki.  Sometimes  the  two  are 
used  together,  as  Seiji  teki  kakumei^  or  seiji  teki  no  kakumeif  '*  a 
revolution  of  politics,"  i.  e.,  *•  a  political  revolution." 

SHI. 
IT  1x6.    Shi,  a  postposition  which  is  not  capable  of  translation 
into  English,  has  a  sort  of  enumerative  force,  and  serves 
as  a  kind  of  pause,  thus : 

Kono      nikai  wa,         Fuji    \      "  From        the 


second  story  here 
you  can  see  Fu- 


Vh49    •ecoHd'Btory  ai-fort  Fngipatna 

mo         mieru       shi,       umi       mo 

mieru 
keshiki      desu.  — truly  a  beauti 

9iew  4,.  yfulview. 


M:      makoto     ni      ii    y^iyama  and   you 
imiM      *..  ^c*  h^an  f «  *e  sea, 


SHI    AND    TO.  79 

Shi  is  frequently  appended  to  the  verbal  form  in  mai 
(the  "  probable  present  or  future  ").  Thus,  when  bandying 
words  with  a  jinrikisha-man  who  should  attempt  to  make 
an   overcharge,  one  might  say : 

Hajimete        kuruma     wo      \      '*  You  don't  ima- 

Fmrmthe'MrBi'Ume    vehieie    (accus.)     \  gine,    do   yOU  ?    that 

tanomi     ya  shimai  this  is  the  first  time 

ash       oM-rmr^fl)  ps^bakim'do-HQt f  \i  j^^ve  hired  a  jin- 

rikisha,  and  that  I 


don't  know  the  pro- 
per fare !  " 


shif  taigai  sdba 

for^thetmoMtfpart  tmarhet^riee 

mo      shitte      iru     wa  I 

aia0    ttmmwimg     a§m*   {emph.) 

Occasionally  shi  seems  to  terminate  a  sentence  ;  but 
this  is  only  because  the  speaker,  after  finishing  the  first 
clause,  finds  himself  at  a  loss  concerning  the  second,  and 
so  perforce  leaves  the  sentence  unfinished. 

N.  B.  Do  not  confound  the  postposition  shi  with  shi  the  inde- 
finite form  of  the  verb  suru^  **  to  do,"  which  appears  in  such  idioms  as 
mi  mo  shiy  kiki  mo  suru,  **  one  both  sees  it  and  hears  it." 

TO. 

IT    117.  To  originally  had  the  sense  of  our  demonstrative 

pronoun    "  that,"    but    it    now    has  the    sense   of   our 

conjunction   "  that :  " 

Uso       da       to      iimasu. \     ,,  „  .,       ..  •      ,.    „ 

Mde       u      ihai     f«y«.     J         ne  says  mat  It  isa  lie. 

Honto  da   to     omoimasu.)      ^  t  ^u-  k  4.1,^^  ;.  •     ^^^^  » 

N.  B.  Originally  therefore  the  sense  was :  ''  It  is  a  lie.  He  says 
that ."  *'  It  is  truth.  I  think  that."  The  conversion  of  the  demon- 
strative pronoun  into  the  conjunction  came  about  gradually  in  the 
case  of  tOy  as  in  the  case  of  its  English  equivalent  *'  that." 

In  the  above,  and  in  most  similar  phrases,  English 
idiom  generally  prefers  to  omit  the  word  **  that ;  "  but 
to  cannot  so  be  omitted  in  Japanese.    The  following  are 


8o  THE   POSTPOSITION. 

instances  of  ^0*  meaning  literally  "  that,"  but  not  lending 
itself  to  expression  in  idiomatic  English  : 


Omae  san  no     na      wa, 

nan    to  iu  ka?  (Said  to  acorn- 
mphaiihattatf  f         mon person,) 


"  What  is  your  name  ?" 
more  lit,  "  As  for  the 
name  of  Mr.  you,  what  do 
.people  say  that  it  is  ?  " 


ccT-u  -   Tijr       "  ^      /     "  A  vessel  called  the  *  Tokyo 
JA  S«::«iLW--'  "---^^•^-  -Avesselof 
mosti  fune.  1  ^hich  people  say  that  it  is  the 

•a9  resMei.  M  Tokyo  Mar u. 

■    \     (Conf.  p.  55  for  this  important  idiom.) 

Similarly  in  the  case  of  such  onomatopoetic  adverbs  as 
hatto,  kittOj  patattOj  etc.,  where  the  to  (strengthened  into 
tto)  is,  properly  speaking,  a  separate  word,  thus  : 

HaHto^  omoimashita^,  **  I  started,"  more  lit.  "  I 

thoughts  that*  it  is  Afl  * !  " 

Nochi'hodo^  kitto^  mairi-     "  I  will  certainly*  come^ 
mas0.  later-on^" 

PeUaHto*  ochimashitaK         ''  It  fell*  flop^" 

Under  this  heading,  too,  comes  the  idiomatic  use  of  to 
at  the  end  of  a  sentence ;  for  some  verb  must  always  be 
mentally  supplied  after  it.  Take,  for  instance,  the  com- 
mon Colloquial  phrase  Nan  to  ?  **  What  did  you  {or  he) 
say  ?  "  standing  for  Nan  to  osshatta  ?  (polite),  or  Nan 
to  itta  ?  (familiar). 

H  ii8.  To  itte,  **  saying  that ;  "  to  omotte,  "  thinking  that ;  ** 
to  kiite,  "  asking  (lit.  hearing)  whether, "  and  similar 
gerundial  phrases,  are  often  contracted  to  tote  (vulgarly 
tte).  Tote  frequently  has  a  sort  of  oppositive  force,  as 
in  the  following  examples,  where  it  may  be  best  parsed  as 
standing  for  to  itte  mo,  *'  even  saying  that,"  i.e.,  "  even 
supposing  that."     (Conf.  also  11*289.) 


TO.   .  8s 

Ikura       gakumon      shlta     (     "However     much    a 

M0m'mH€h       Mt^dw       *«*^*,«e  man    may    study    {more 

tote,  okonai    ga  %va']l^i-i   saying  that  a  man 

eveu-Batfiusr^hai^  c^nduci  (nom.)  itA  may  Study  how  much), 

rukereba,  nanni  mo  narimasen,  I  nothing  will  come  of  it 

it'bad,    auffihiug  hee0me»'Mi.  \[{  he  is  badly  behaved." 


Zohei-kyoku  wa,  muyami  ni 


'  *  You  cannot  get  shown 
over  the  Mint  simply  by 
"going  there  and  asking 
to  see  it." 


JffiMt         at-foft  reckiettiff 

itta      kara  tote, 

meeut  heeanae      ewen^Maiflug'lkai, 

haiken        wa      dekimasen, 

adoriug^look  as'for,  eweuinate§'ttot»J 

N.  B.    Women  and  the  lower  classes  often  end  a  sentence  by 
ttej  when  they  should  say  to  iimasu  or  to  iimashlta, 

ir  119.  To  sometimes  means  "and."  When  it  has  this 
sense,  it  is,  like  the  Latin  que,  generally  repeated  after 
each  noun.  Even  when  not  so  repeated,  it  always  be- 
longs to  the  word  immediately  preceding  it,  not  to  the 
word  following  it.  Europeans  often  make  the  mistake 
of  commencing  a  clause  by  to,  in  imitation  of  the 
European  idiom  which  introduces  clauses  by  the  conjunc- 
tion "  and."  But  this  sounds  ludicrous  in  Japanese  : 
Anata  to,  watakushi  to,  **  You  and  I." 
Furansu  to,  Doitsii  to.      "  France  and  Germany." 

Certain  idiomatic  uses  of  to  may  best  be  classed  under 
this  head,  thus : 

Musuko  to     f  atari.  ]  ,,fr^  .•  »» 

Son       and  Lo.per»ou..    \ "  Two  countmg  my  son. 

Am  hito     to  ikimashlta.y,  j  ^^^^  ^j^j^  j^j^  „ 

Tkat  pertQH  and     {l)we$9i*    ) 

Okiru   to        sufTu  ni.        ] ,,  a  t      ^        »> 

Mi,e    and   ^mmediaieiy.  J      ^S  SOOn  as  I  got  up. 

Kore  to     wa  chigaimasu.)  ,,  ,,  .     ..rr       ^  r        .,  •    ,, 
Tku  and  aM.Ur,  (it)diirer,.  \    ^^  ^^  different  from  this. 


8l  THE   POSTPOSITION. 

Observe  also  such  adverbial  phrases  as  shi-awase  to, 

"  luckily." 

IT  120.  To    sometimes  comes  to  mean  "if"  or   "when." 

It  has  this  sense  only  after  the  present  tense  of  verbs  and 

adjectives,  thus : 

SosurutOyShtkararemasu.i    "You  will  get  scolded 
Sq    «r«     if,      gei-9€0tded.      (if  you  do  that." 

Sugii         ikdnai         to  A 

Immeaiaieiy  gO'noi  if  A       "  YoU   will    be    toO    late 

okuremasu.  [if  you  don't  go  at  once." 

arciaie.  ' 

So  moshimasu   to,      sugux      <*When   I   said  so,  he 
So        Maid       whem,    im-    .immediately   gave    me   a 

mediaieiy     goi..eoided.  J  SCOlding. 

II  121.  Observe  the  use  of  to  in  such  phrases  as  the 
following,  where  it  is  not  susceptible  of  any  English 
rendering : 


Chiri     tstimotte,        ya- 

M9w§t   accnu»nlati»g^9  §Honw 

ma  to   naru. 
iai»        beeotneB, 


"  Dust  accumulating 
becomes  a  mountain." 

(A  proverb  used  to  inculcate 
the  importance  of  little  things.) 

Mizu  ga      dete,      niwa  \      ufhe   garden   has   be- 


Waterinom.)i.,ning,gmrde^\  ^^^^  ^  ^^viQCt  sea  through 

ga   umt  to  natte  shtmatma-  \  ^^^   overflowing  "  (of  the      ' 
\lilla.  )  neighbouring  stream,  etc.). 

Observe  the  strong  affirmative  force  of  to  (generally 
followed  by  mo)  at  the  end  of  an  assertion,  thus  : 

"  Are  there  any  ? — Of 


Arimasu  kap — Arimasu  to 
mo  / 


course  there  are  V  or,  "I 
should  just  think  there 
were !" 


To  wa  or  tote  sometimes  replaces  to  mo  in  such  strong- 
ly affirmative  phrases. — For  to  mo  and  to  wa  iedomo  in 
concessive  phrases,  see  IF  288  and  H  289. 


WA.  83 

WA. 

I1  122.  Wa  was  originally  a  noun  signifying  "  thing,  "  hence 
"that  which,"  "he,  she,  or  they  who  ";.  but  it  is  now 
used  as  a  separative  or  isolating  particle,  corresponding 
in  some  measure  to  the  French  quant  a,  or,  when  repeat- 
ed antithetically,  to  the  Greek  fdv  and  di,     "  As  for, " 

"with  regard  to,"  "  so  far  as is  concerned,"  are 

its  most  explicit  English  equivalents,  and  it  has  been 
rendered  by  "  as  for  "  in  most  of  the  literal  translations  of 
the  examples  scattered  throughout  the  present  work.  But 
in  practice  its  force  is  generally  sufficiently  indicated  in 
an  English  translation  by  an  emphasis  on  the  equivalent 
of  the  word  to  which  wa  is  suffixed,  or  by  placing  that 
word  in  a  prominent  position  in  the  sentence.  A  slight 
pause,  which  may  sometimes  be  indicated  by  a  comma,  is 
usually  made  after  wa : 


Budo-shu  wo  sukoshi  atatamete^ 

TVijie     {accus.)  a»l4ttie  tvaramiHg, 

biiru     wa     sono     mania     de 

beer     aB^for,  tkai   eouMtiOH  in 

yoroshii, 

(is)  g09dL 


"Warm  the  claret 
a  little ;  but  so  far 
as  the  beer  is  con- 
cerned, that  will  do 
as  it  is." 


Konnichi  wa,     yoi 

tenki    de  gozaimasu, 
weather  (it)  it. 


"  To-day  it  is  fine  weather." 
(/.^.,  "Whatever  it  may  have 
been  other  days,  to-day  at 
least  it  is  fine.") 


Oki      wa,      yohodo     nami  ga 

OifiHg  at'f^rtpteniifnUtf  tvawet  (notn.) 
arai  yd       desu  kara,    ftine 

r^mgh  appearance  i»   hecauBet  wetMet 
wa  demasumai, 

aff^r^  probakt9fwon*t'go'0ni. 


"  Out  at  sea  the 
waves  seem  pretty 
rough;  so  probably 
the  vessel  will  not 
sail. 


Ima     wa      te-sUki    de  gozaimasuA     "  Now  I  am  at 

jr^w  affoTtUand'empiff  am.  (leisure." 


84  THE    POSTPOSITION. 

Koko  no  ido   way  (    ''  '^®  water  in  this  well  comes 

Bere^M  «r*«  «,-#jpr, J  ^0"^  the  aqueduct. 

suido       desk  1     (-'Vor"  The  well  here  is  an  aqueduct,*' (!) 

wter^mad    U.  '  f«  ^^^  beginner  might  suppose,  if  he  mis- 

Vtook  wa  for  a  sign  of  the  nominative  case.) 

"This  being  so,  I  am 
in  a  quandary."  (The 
de  wa  may  be  contracted 
jnto  ja  ;  see  H  89.) 

**  I  don't  smoke."  {More 
lit.  "As  for  tobacco,  I 
don't  smoke  it.") 


Kore   de   wa   komarima- 

SU, 

Tahako    wa,  nomimasen. 


Yoku     wa    zonjimasen   )     »  j  don't  know  «;««. 


Kore  wa         wasei,      are 

rhis  ma'fmTf  jr^poMmmmhef  thmt 

wa   hakurai    [de  gozaimasu) 

«*-#•«•,      im^mrimi40H       (is). 


''This  (is)  of  native 
make,  that  is  an  im- 
ported article." 


Nishi     wa         Fuji,        kita 
Iva      Tsukuba     de    gozaimasu. 

mB'fpTf  rgnknbm  {it)i»m 


"  To  the  west 
stands  Fusiyama,  to 
the  north  Mount 
Tsukuba." 


If  123.  In  an  interrogative  sentence,  wa  would  sometimes 
seem  to  be  the  means  of  asking  a  question  ;  but  an 
ellipsis  must  always  be  supplied.  For  instance  Inn  wa  ? 
pronounced  in  an  interrogative  tone  of  voice,  practically 
signifies  "  Where  is  the  dog  ?  "  But  literally  it  is,  "  As 
for  the  dog,  (where  is  he  ?)" 

Wa  also  sometimes  occurs  at  the  end  of  a  sentence 
with  a  certain  interjectional,  exclamatory,  or  emphatic 
force.  This  idiom  is  heard  only  in  quite  familiar  talk, 
and  especially  from  the  lips  of  women  ;  thus  : 

Watashi  wa,  kono  ho    ga  ii     wa!     1  "I  like  this 

Jffe        mt^fmrt  thia  bMc  (nom,){is)  (g^md  4i$t§ee4!  \  one,    /  do.  \ 


WA.  85 

IT  124.  The  peculiar  power  of  "wa  to  separate  or  limit  ideas 

is  well-shown  in  some  of  the  negative  phrases  given  in 

the  Chapter  on  Syntax,  11  433,  and  also  in  such  favourite 

verbal  idioms  as  the  following : 

Am  ni    %va   arimasu  ga,    sikuno^     "There ar^  some, 

it  is  true,  but*  they 
are  scarce. 


Wa     4u  mB^f^r,       ia      wherema,  aearee 

gozaimasu,     (Or  Aru  koto  wa,  etc.) 

it. 


A  me    wa,    futte  imasiika? — Furu  ni 


"  Is  it  rain- 


ing ? — Yes,  it 
is  raining,  but 
it  is  not   rain- 


JEtaim  aB'fot»9  faiHug    4b  f  WmliB  *u 

wa     futte    imasu       ga,       hidoi    koto 
mB'fmr,  f^iiiiHjf      U       wtherenB^  intenBe   fmei 

wa     frozaimasen,  .       i      ,  „ 

«#-##r,       4B^9t.  /mghard. 

Kotowatte   okimashlta.  "  I  refused." 

MtefwBing  (/)jMfl. 

Kotowatte  wa  okima-  (  **  I  re/used,  but...  "  (the  sen- 
shita  ga,.,  (tence  remaining  unfinished.) 

The  former  of  these  two  phrases  states  the  fact  of 
the  refusal,  and  nothing  more.  The  latter  emphasises  it; 
but  the  emphasis  is  the  emphasis  of  hesitation,  as  if  one 
should  say,  "  I  did  indeed  refuse,  but  my  refusal  was 
tempered  by  politeness ;  it  was  not  communicated  abrupt- 
ly, neither  was  it  unreasonable  in  itself." 

"Oh!   yes;   a 


Tsukai       wa  kita  ga,         tonin 

^fMeBBeMger  as^fmr,  eaute  mithmnght  persow 

wa         ki       wa     shinai, 

4ai^neBt40M  mB'fpTf  e0am4ttff  twfmr,  4f#tf«-M«#« 


messenger  came, 
but  the  man  him- 
self didn't."  \: 


Very  often  we  hear  ki  wa  shinai  (and  similar  construc- 
tions with  other  verbs),  where  simple  konai,  etc.,  would 
seem  sufficiently  clear  according  to  European  ideas.  But  >: 
the  Japanese  prefer  the  more  emphatic  form  with  wa, 
whenever  any  mental  reservation  or  allusion  implies  the 
.  existence  somewhere  or  other  of  contradiction  or  opposition 


86  -THE    POSTPOSITION. 

to  the  idea  which  is  actually  expressed,  as  illustrated  in 
the  two  foregoing  examples. 

N.  B,  When  thus  suffixed  to  the  indefinite  form  of  a  verb  (ki  is 
the  indefinite  form  of  the  irregular  verb  kuruj  *•  to  come  *'),  wa  is 
often  pronounced  ya  ;  thus  ki  ya  sTiinai  for  ki  wa  shinai. 
t  125.  A  consideration  of  the  foregoing  examples,  and  in- 
deed of  those  which  any  page  of  Japanese  affords,  will  con- 
vince the  student  that  wa  is  not,  as  some  European  writers 
have  erroneously  imagined,  a  sign  of  the  nominative  case. 
The  following  example,  which  is  the  last  we  will  quote, 
illustrates  this  fact  almost  to  the  point  of  absurdity.  It 
is  race-day,  let  us  suppose.  You  meet  a  friend  walking  in 
the  direction  of  the  race-course,  and  you  say  to  him : 
Anata    wa,       keiha      de$u   ka  ? 

i.e.,  if  interpreted  on  the  hypothesis  of  wa  being  a  sign  of 
the  nominative  case,  "Are  you  a  horse-race?"  (!)  The 
proper  meaning  of  course  is  **  As  for  you,  is  it  the  races 
(that  you  are  going  to)?"  or  more  simply  **  Off  to  the 
races,  he?"  The  most  that  can  be  said  with  regard  to  the 
so-called  nominative  force  of  wa  is  that  the  word  followed 
by  wa  must,  in  not  a  few  instances,  be  rendered  by  a  nomi- 
native in  English,  though  it  is  never  properly  a  nomina- 
tive in  the  Japanese  construction.  The  nearest  approach 
made  by  the  Colloquial  Japanese  Language  to  the  posses- 
sion of  a  nominative  particle  is  in  the  particle  ga  (see 
p.  64).  But  even  this,  as  has  been  there  explained,  origin- 
ally meant  "  of,"  that  is  to  say,  was  a  sign  of  the  geni- 
tive, not  of  the  nominative. 
IF  126.  Europeans  often  find  it  hard  to  decide  whether  to 
say  wa  or  ga ;  and  it  is  true  that  two  Japanese  phrases, 
one  with  wa,  the  other  with  ga,  must  often  be  rendered 


DIFFERENCE   BETWEEN   WA   AND    GA.  87 

by  the  same  English  words.  There  is,  however,  a  differ- 
ence of  stress.  When  ga  is  used  in  any  such  phrase,  we 
must  emphasise  the  subject  in  the  English  translation ; 
when  iva  is  used,  we  must  emphasise  the  predicate.  The 
Japanese  themselves,  as  stated  in  IT  27,  are  not  much  given 
to  the  use  of  such  emphasis.  They  prefer  a  change  in  the 
actual  words.  Thus  Kore  ga  it  means  "  This  is  good  ;  " 
whereas  Kore  wa  ii  means  "  This  is  good.''  The  distinc- 
tion flows  naturally  from  the  original  force  of  the  two  parti- 
cles, Kore  ga  ii  being  properly  "  The  goodness  of  this," 
while  Kore  wa  ii  is  properly  "As  for  this,  it  is  good." 

To  take  another  example : — if  you  are  expecting  your 
Japanese  teacher,  the  servant  will  probably  inform  you  of 
his  arrival  by  ssiy ing  Sensei  wa  miemashita,  **  The  teacher 
has  come'*  {lit,  appeared).  The  etymological  sense  is, 
**  As  for  the  teacher,  he  has  come."  But  should  the  same 
personage  arrive  .in  the  middle  of  the  night  or  at  some 
other  unusual  hour,  the  servant  will  say  Sensei  ga  mie- 
mashlta  ;  i.e.,  "  The  teacher  has  come," — more  properly 
and  etymologically,  **  The  coming  of  the  teacher."  So 
too  of  an  unexpected  death  one  would  say,  for  instance, 
^*  Hayashi  San  ga  shinimashltaj  "  Mr.  Hayashi  is  dead." 
But  if  he  had  long  been  known  to  be  past  recovery,  the 
phrase  would  be  Hayashi  San  wa  shinimashita,  Mr.  Ha- 
yashi is  dead,'' 

tin  comparative  sentences  the  rule  is  very  simple.  The 
bject  takes  ga,  while  the  word  denoting  the  thing  with 
ivhich  the  subject  is  compared  is  generally  separated  off 
by  means  of  wa  :  thus :  Kore  yori  wa,  are  ga  ii,  "  This 
is  better  than  //w/."| 
IT  127.  The  student,)  who  has  followed  this  explanation 
with  due  regard  to  the  original  genitive  force  of  ^a,  will 


88  THE   POSTPOSITION. 

perceive  that  there  is  nothing  specially  emphatic  about 
ga  in  the  Japanese  idiom,  though  an  emphasis  on  the 
word  preceding  it  is  its  nearest  equivalent  in  English. 
On  the  other  hand,  wa  is  emphatic  and  separative  in 
Japanese,  though  there  will  generally  be  no  emphasis  on 
the  corresponding  portion  of  the  phrase  in  English,  when 
the  English  noun  is  a  nominative.  Wa,  however,  corres- 
ponds to  an  emphasised  word  in  English  whenever  that 
word  is  not  a  nominative,  as  shown  by  several  of  the 
examples  given  above. 
IF  128.  It  may  be  asked:  what  is  the  rule  in  the  case  of 
two  nominatives  in  antithetical  clauses?  The  answer 
is  that  either  ga  may  be  used  in  both,  or  else  wa  may  be 
used  in  both.  Thus  the  fifth  example  on  p.  84,  Kore  wa 
wasei,  are  wa  hakurai,  "  This  is  of  native  make,  that  is 
an  imported  article,"  might  be  altered  to  Kore  ga  wasei, 
are  ga  hakurai.  The  effect  would  be  to  throw  the 
emphasis  more  strongly  on  the  two  subjects  than  on  the 
two  predicates. 

N.  B.  Sometimes  wa,  occurring  after  an  adjective  in  ft«,  must  be 
rendered  by  *'  if,"  thus: 


Yoroshiku  wa,  dekakemasho* 


"  If  you   are  all  right 
let  us  start.'* 


Elegant  speakers  sometimes  prefer  to  say  yoroshikuha, 
which  is  the  form  most  used  in  the  Book  Language. 

WO. 
II  129.     Wo  is  the  nearest  Japanese  equivalent  to  a  sign  of 
the  accusative  case,  thus  : 

Tamago    wo     uderu.  "To  boil  eggs," 

Mgg§     (accus.)  io^Hi.  •     • 


Yome     wo 

Bri4e    (ace) 

morau. 


Sonna        kake-ne         wo 

8nch  exeettlre^riee  {occ,)^ 

itchay  komarimasu. 


WO.  89 

**  To  receive  a  bride,"  i.e.,  "  to  marry.'* 
(Of  course  said  only  of  the  man.    A   girl's 

marrying  is  called  yome  ni  iku,  lit.  **  to  go  as  a 

bride.") 

(     "I  don't  know  what  to  do 


Hito    no 

kuru 

WO 

JFertmn     *» 

emtmet 

iaccusJ) 

matsu. 

tO'Otgmig, 

if  you  ask  such  an  exorbit- 
ant price,"  or  more  simply ^ 
"You  should  not  ask  such  an 
^exorbitant  price.''' 

L     "To   await    the    coming 
I  of  some  one." 

ir  130.  Originally  wo  was  nothing  more  than  an  interjec- 
tion serving,  as  it  were,  to  interrupt  the  sentence  and 
draw  attention  to  the  word  to  which  it  was  suffixed. 
We  must  therefore  not  be  surprised  at  its  absence  in 
many  cases  where  European  languages  could  not  dis- 
pense with  the  accusative  case.  It  is  not  that  the  wo 
has  been  dropped  in  such  contexts,  but  that  it  never  was 
there,  thus : 
Baka  iu.na  I  (very  rude).    |  „  ^^^.^  ^^,^  nonsense." 

Meshi  kuu  toki,  f "  When  eating  rice," 

Miee   emi  iime.  \ "  When  dining." 

Before  the  verb  suru,  **  to  do,"  wo  is  mostly  absent,  as : 

rr  1.  f"  To  make  a  translation," 

Hon-yaku  suru.  |<.  To  translate." 

Saisoku  suru.        <*  To  do  urgency,"  i.e.,  "  to  urge  on." 
IT  131.  The  student  will  sometimes  meet  with,  and  perhaps 
be  puzzled  by,  sentences  like  the  following  : 

Daijin-gata  wo        hajime,  (     "All  the  officials 

JW4t^i9ters(accu5.)begiHH4ug(trans.),]yfeirt  there,  from  the 

shO'kwan-in  made  soroimashtta.     1  ministers     of    state 

mii^MeUUt        UH     trcrci-CMNiriele.      (downwards." 


go  THE    POSTPOSITION. 

Here  the  first  clause  literally  means  "placing  the 
ministers  of  state  at  the  beginning."  It  is  therefore  but 
natural  that  the  word  daijin-gata,  being  what  we  should 
term  an  accusative,  should  take  wo, 

IT  132.  In  the  Written  Language,  wo  is  often  used  adversa- 
tively  at  the  end  of  a  clause.  But  this  is  rare  in  the 
Colloquial,  which  prefers  to  use  ga  for  that  purpose,  as 
already  explained  in  1^  93. 

YA. 

1(  133.  Ya  is  an  interrogative  and  exclamatory  particle  of 
constant  occurrence  in  the  Written  Language.  In  the 
Colloquial  it  is  less  used,  excepting  in  such  contexts  as 
Haru  ya  !  **I  say,  Haru  ! '*  said  when  calling  a  person 
by  name.  It  also  occurs  corruptly  for  wa  after  the  in- 
definite forms  of  verbs,  as  explained  in  the  N.  B.  on  p. 
86.     Sometimes  it  has  the  sense  of  "  and  "  or  **  or,"  thus  : 


Tonari  no  uchi  de,  inu  ya  > 

neko     ga     suki     to     miete^ 
emt»       mf      foud  thmi  aeemtiHg^ 

takusan  ni    katte    orimasd, 

qnauiitff  4h  remMmg      mre. 


**  They  vjrould  seem^ 
to  be  very  fond  of  dogs 
and  cats  in  the  house 
next  door ;  for  they 
keep  quite  a  number  of 
them." 

or  something 


-y^nanika.  Q  other." 

YE.- 
IT  134.   Ye  means  "  to,"  **  towards,"  hence  sometimes  "at:" 
Gakko  ye  0         ide  desu  ka  ?  \     "  Do  you  go  to 

Sehomi   l««  h^mourakMe  exit     4»       f       \  school  ?" 

*  Some  good  authorities  prefer  the  orthography  E,  as  better  repre- 
senting the  pronnnciation.  In  Classical  Japanese  the  word  is  spelt 
He,    We  follow  the  last  edition  of  Dr.  Hepburn's  Dictionary. 


YA,   YE,    AND   YORU  ^I 


Station     ye        iki-gake.     ni. 

Station  t0ward§  ifiHg'WhUe^ 

Rokumeikwan  ye  chotto  yorimasu, 

Mt0hnm»eimm»     «l,  Jn§i     w4ll»»t0p. 


**  I  will  just  look 
in  at  the  Rokumei- 
kwan on  my  way  to 
the  station." 


N.  B.  Rokumeikwan  is  the  name  of  a  well-known  public  building 
in  Tokyo.  It  signifies  "  the  Hall  of  the  Cry  of  the  Stag,"  in  allusion 
to  a  line  of  ancient  Chinese  poetry. 

Koko  ye    oite      qite      kudasai.     i     **  Please  put  it 

HLere    to  pnttU^ig  pHUiH(g  €0m4le9C€Md.  |  down  here." 

N.  B.  The  second  oite  is  the  sanfe  verb  as  the  first,  but  has 
only  the  force  of  an  auxiliary  (see  1[  298). 

YORI. 

II  135.  Yori  means  "  from,"  **  since,"  "  than  :  " 

^^    .     .  ..,_  .  (     "  From  Kyoto"  (or  its 

Kamtgata  yoru  |  neighbourhood).    ^ 

,.,...  .  (      "  Since  the  day  before 

Issakuptsu  yoru  lyesterday." 

Nani    yori  kekkd  na      o       /     "Thanks      for     your 
.«»,«**.,/*«.,  vi««**i««<«r-g, gjjjj J  present."  {More 
shtna         wo        artgato     ,  ^         r  '^     „         V," 

^ieariieie     (accus.)     iMmuUfniY'^:      J^'      ^^^J^       "^O^^" 

gozaimasu.  splendid     -    than  -  any- 

gggg^  Vthmg  present.) 


POSTPOSITIONS    COMBINED. 

If  136.  Postpositions  may  be  combined  in  Japanese,  much 
as  in  English  we  say  "  in  at,"  **  in  by,"  **  away  from," 
etc.  Some  instances  have  already  occurred  in  the  preced- 
ing portions  of  this  chapter.     Here  are  a  few  more  : — 


Go    shimpai  ni  wa 

mMuguki  €u§je4etif     Mo 

oyobimasen. 


"  It  is  not  worth  your  trou- 
bling about.  (Ni  ^^  is  more  em- 
phatic than  ni  alone  would  bie.  For  a 
still  more  emphatic  construction  with 
jii  way  see  1[  124.) 


92 


THE    POSTPOSIiriON. 


Oshii        koto  ni     wa 

Megrmiimble  fmei  m§  indeed, . 

N.  B.    Phrases  of  this  kind  are  idiomatic  and  in  constant  use. 


"It  is  a  pity  that..." 


yn-ni'ji        yori       mo     osoku^ 

Vtvelve'MmurM      tha»      eveu^       late 

natcha         iketnasen, 
m§»fer^ee0tmiMgf    U^uo^gm. 

Ano      hlto      to        wa,     goku  ^ 

Vhmt    perBmH    mith    aff^r,      very 

kon-i  de  gozaima$u, 

iuiimmte  4». 

Ano  hen  mo,    moto 

rhni  neigMmnrhmed  mif^    origin 

to     wa      yohodo  hirakemashita, 

with  mg^fer^  very  tmmeh  hUM-opened-'mHi* 


**  It  won't'  do  to 
be  later  than  twelve 
o'clock." 


"He 
timate 
man." 


IS    very    in- 
with       that 


"  That  neighbour- 
hood is  much  improv- 
ed compared  with 
,what  it  used  to  be," 

Isogazu     ^o  mo jvoros/m.  (Familiar.) J   "You      needn't 

BMrrpiHg-Het  even,  (is.)  gomd,  jhurry." 

Kuru    to    ka  iimashita.  (     "  If    I    mistake    pot,    he 
Cmme»  ihmi    f        tmid.       (said  he  would  come." 

Kao  de  mo      o  arai  nasaru  ^a.^  ("Will  you  )yash 

Pace  eveM,  lMMewr«»#y  ie-^agh  deign  f      jyour  face,  Sir?  " 

N.  B.  De  mo  is  often  thus  used  in  a  manner  not  capable  of  transla- 
tion into  English,  though  retaining  the  force  of  "even  **  in  Japanese. 

Konnichi    made  no  kan- 

Ve-dap  Ml      '«        mc 

jo       WO    shimasho. 

eenuU  (accus,)  teiii'do. 

Sore     made   no    koto   ni\ 

Vhai       tm        U    thing    io 

itashimasho. 

90iiitmahe, 

Ko^e  made  ni  mitakqto' 
rhU       Mi    iuf    BOW    met 

ga  nakatta. 

(nom,)  9em§'ii0l, 


"  I  will  do  the  accounts 
down  to  to-day."  {More  lit, 
the  till-to-day's  accounts.) 

"  I  will  let  it  alone " 
or  "  Don't  let  us  think 
about  it  any  more." 

"  I  had  never  seen  it  till 
•  now."  {Made  ni  is  stronger 
than  made  alone  would  be^) 


POSTPOSITIONS   COMBINED.  93 

N.  B.    Made  ni  often  corresponds  to  our  word   "by^.^in  such 
phrases  as  myunichi  made  ni,  **  by  to-morrow ;  "  kachi-ji  made  nit ."  by 
eight  o'clock."    The  Japanese  mind  does  not  clearly  apprehend  the 
shade  of  difference  which,  with  us,  separates  **by"  from  "  till" in \ 
idtonks  of  this  class. 

IT  137.  No  followed  by  other  postpositions  generally  has 
the  substantive  force  of  the  English  word  "  one "  or 
"  ones,"  already  exemplified  on  pp.  75-76,  thus : 

Motto  it     no     wa  aritnasen  ka  ?  (     "  Haven't*  you 

JKpre  gmmS  mn^t  eu^fpr^    mre-^mi     f       |  any  better  Ones  ?  " 

M6      chitto      a      no        wo    .      u  pjease  show  me 
misete      kudasai.  '    some  _  rather    better 

tktwiHg  €»iulei€eHd.  j  Ones. 

Okii   no  ga        hoshii.     \     »  I  want  a  big  one." 

.     Big    0Me  mf  \am)  MesiroMt.  j  ° 

K6  iu  no  mo     hayarimasn     x      a  fhis   kind  too  is 

8^h0HeMmh0  are^fasMi^ua^ie  ^     fashion.      So 

karay  £oran  nasat.       {   Y        \     1     "^Z        »♦ 

^^cmmse^mHg^Bi'gimM^ee^H^eMeeu^f  P^^^S«  ^^ok  at  them. 

^ Motto yasui  no  ni    .     skiyo.  f     "I   think    I  will 

JVEpre  eheai^  Mte  f  994ii'prmhahifr^0.  (take  a  cheaper  one." 

%  138.  Though  the  no  of  no  ni  may,  as  in  the  last  example, 
be  used  in  the  sense  of  "one"  or  "ones,"  it  more  fre- 
quently signifies  "whereas,"  "while,"  "when."  It  may 
be  known  to  have  this  acceptation  by  noting  that  a  verb 
(or  an  adjective  equivalent  to  a  verb)  precedes  it,  as  in 
the  following  sentence  : 


Moto  no  mama  de  yokatta 

Origiu  *B  fa§hi0M  ^y,  wtaB'go0d 

no  ni,     naze    jun       wo 
tjphereeu^  whff   •rder    {accus,) 

.    naoshxta  ? 


"  Why  have  you  chang- 
ed their  order,  when  it 
^did  quite  well  ,  as  it 
was?" 

(Said,  e.g.,  to  a  servant,) 


94  ^HE    POSTPOSITION. 

As  here  exemplified,  no  ni  occurs  chiefly  in  phrases 
expressive  of  censure  or  regret.  Cbnf.  IT  287  for  further 
details  concerning  this  important  idiom. 

ir  139.  Observe  that  wo  and  wa,  when  combined,  change 
by  euphony  into  woba,  which  is  used  to  denote  a  spe- 
cially emphatic  accusative ;  also  that  de  wa  is  often  con- 
tracted into  ja,  as  has  already  been  incidentally  mentioned 
in  IT  89.  jfuy  owing  perhaps  to  its  being  a  modem  cor- 
ruption, sounds  somewhat  more  familiar  than  de  wa,  but 
the  two  are  always  interchangeable : — 

Kimono  ni  abura  woba  kakemashlta.  I     **  I  have  stained 
Ci0thet0M,   mii  h»9e^iac€4*  (myclotheswithoi/.'* 


\S6  de  wa  nai,\ 

\S6  ja  nai.        |  (Famil.) 

So  \de  wa  gozaimasen. 
[    ja  M  (Polite.) 

Shubiki-gwai      .      '  ^  teppo  wo   utsu 

Me^hliate^eifoud       <••«       gun  [accus.)  §trike 
koto  ga  dekimasen. 
met  (nom.)  cannmi'do. 


.  *' That  is  not  so; ''"no." 


**  You  mayn't 
shoot  outside 
treaty  limit$." 


IF  140.  Occasionally  an  ellipsis  must  be  supplied.  Thus 
to  wa  is  sometimes  equivalent'  to  to  iu  mono  wa,  as  in  the 
following  sentence  : 

Go^-io^  to^  Mf/i*  f     "  As-for*  (the-thing-of-which  people 

naS  4%1;  "n'«   ->^)  /^.f  ?.  ^^^'  ^^'-I^^.'^*'   "'  '\ 
they  talk^  of  ?  "   i.e.,  "What  is  meant 

,by  the  term  go -jo?''     (See  vocabulary.) 


desH^  ka^^P 


QUASI-POSTPOSITIONS. 

II  141.  What  may  be  termed  quasi-postpositions  are  really 
nouns  preceded  by  the  postposition   «o,   "  of,"  and   used 


QUASI-POSTPOSITIOKS. 


95 


in  a  sense  less  copcrete  th4n  that  originally  belonging  to 
them.     Such  are,  for  instance  : 

no  hokUf       "  exterior  of,"     i.e.,  **  besides"  (metaph.). 


no  kagCf       "  shade  of," 
no  kawariy  "  change  of," 
no  mukOy      "  opposite  of," 
no  naka,       **  interior  of," 
no  shita,       "  lower  part  of," 
no  sotOj        **  exterior  of," 

no  tame,       **  sake  of," 

no  uchi,  **  interior  of," 

no  ucy  "  top  of," 

no  ushiro,  **  back  of," 

no  wakiy  "  side  of," 

We  thus  get  such  phrases  as  : 

le  no  uchi, 
Hei  no  soto, 
.   Kura  no  naka, 
Omoi  no  hoka, 


*'  behind." 

**  instead  of." 

"  opposite,  "  beyond." 

**  inside,  in." 

**  below." 

**  outside,  "  beyond." 

"  because  of," 


I"  in  order  to." 
"inside,  **in." 


"  on,  "  upon. 

**  behind." 

"beside"  (by  the  side). 


"  In(side)  the  house.  " 
"  Beyond  the  fence." 
**  In(side)  the  godown." 
"  Outside  of  thought,"  i.e.,  **  unex- 
pectedly." 
Hanashi  no  tsuide,  "•  Occasion  of  talking,"  i.e.,  **  in  the 

course  of  conversation." 
Ano yatna  no  kage,  "  Behind  those  mountains." 

ir  142.  When  followed  by  a  verb,  the  quasi-postpositions 
take  ni  after  them,  except  in  the  case  of  the  substantive 
verb  "  to  be,"  which  requires  de,  unless  when  signifying 
"  there  is,"  etc.  {De  aru  is  generally  contracted  to  da  ; 
de  gozaimasU  to  desu,  and  so  on  ;  see  p.  62).     Thus  ; 


96  THE    POSTPOSITION. 

To-dana  no  naia  ni  \     „  ^  j^  {„   t^e  cupboard." 


Cnphmar4     *a    inaide   Im, 

haitte      imasu, 

euieriHg        U* 


(One  might  equally  well  say. 
Todana  no  naka   desu). 


Tsukue  no   ue  ni    notte   imasen]      «<  jg^j'^  j^  q^  ^^^ 

.    f*"*    ''   *•'  -'  ••'f'-f  '  *'"''      table  ?  —  Yes,      it 
kap — Tsukue  no  ue    desu.  J  ' 

f  rakie      *$  Up     {it)i». 


IS.' 


'Kono  hoka  ni  mata 

VhU^f   heaidea,     «^«tfM 

.  iro-iro    gozaunasU. 


"There  are   various  kinds 
besides  this  one." 

(For  kono=i**  of  this,*'  sec  p.  5a ;  simi- 
larly for  sono  immediately  below.) 


Kawa  no  mukd  de  gozaimasu.  |     **  It  is  on  the  other 
j»««r    »#  mppmaiu         {it)  u.       (side  of  the  fiver." 

Note  also  the  idiom  sono  kawari  niy  lit.  "change  of 
that,"  used  in  the  sense  of  **  on  the  other  hand." 
IT  143.  When   prefixed  attributively  to   a  noun,  this  class 
of  words  changes  the  wt  into  no,  in  accordance  with  the 
rule  explained  in  II  iii,  thus: 

Tansu  no  naka  no  kimono.  (.  "'  ^he  clothes  in 

Cheai-of-drawera  '«  interior  '«  eUthea.   \  *"^  Cnest  Ot  draw- 

lers. 
Kono        hoka    no   shina-mono,  (     "The  other  things 

rhia^f     exierimr    '#  artieiea.      jbesides  these." 


Mon  no  waki  no  momiji     wa, 

Gnie  *a      aide    *a  aaaapie     ma^fmr^ 

rippa       ni    koyo  shimashlta. 
apieudidlg    red^ieaf         haa'dome* 


"The  leaves  of  the 
maple -tree  by  the 
gate  have  become 
beautifully  red." 


%  144.  When  a  member  of  this  class  of  words  follows  a 
verb,  its  force  changes  slightly,  so  as  to  correspond  to 
that  of  an  English  adverb  or  conjunction,  thus: 


QUASI-POSTPOSITIONS. 


97 


Kate  kore  suru  uchi  ni, 

Vhnt    ihU      do     wMiet 

hi     ga  kuremashita. 
dmif  (nom.)     aarkened. 


**  While  we  were  doing  all 
this,  night  came  on.'* 

(Note  the  idiom  kare  kore,  "  that 
and  this,"  or,  as  we  should  say, 
V*'this,  that,  and  the  other.") 


So  suru  hoka,      shtkata 

Sm     do     except,  mfUft^f "doing 

ga        nai. 
(nom.)    4»u*t, 

Kind  furimashlta  kawari\ 

l^eBierdmjg     raided  change 

niy    kyo      wa        it  o 

4th  io'dag  mffoTf  good   honour* 

tenki     {de  gozaimasu) 
mhie  wteather  (it). 


^        *  There  is  nothing  else 
I  to  be  done." 


"  Whereas  it  rained 
yesterday  (i.e.,  after  yes- 
terday's rain),  it  is  beau- 
tiful weather  to-day." 


145.  There   are   also   quasi-postpositions   formed   by   ni 

and  the  gerunds  of  verbs,  as  ni  atattCy  "  just  at,"  from 

atarUy  "  to  strike  ;  "  ni  shitagattCy  "  according  to,"  from 

shltagauy    **  to   conform  ;  "  ni  yotte,   **  owing  to,"  from 

yoru  **  to  rely ;"  thus : 

"  It  is  rude 
to  say  that  to  a 
guest." 

I  "I  know  not 
how  to  excuse 
^myself  to  you." 

*'I  am 

sorry  now  for 
my  extrava- 
gance." 


Kyaku  ni     taishite,     shitsurei   desH. 

Cmeti     to   confroHiing,  mdenett       it, 

Anatani  taishitCy  moshi-wake  ga  go- 

X*<9«      to  confronting,     excnte       (nom,) 

zaimasen, 

is'not, 

Amari   nyuhi     wo     kake-sugimashh 

Voonnnch  expenae  (accus,)  haoing^plmcethexcc' 
te,  ima  ni  itatte  kokwai  shite  imasu, 
ededf  now  to  reaching,  repentance  doing  ant, 

Shinnen  ga  kimasil  ni  yotte^X 

Jfew'gear(nom.)  eon$e§     to  owing, 

o  kazari  wo 

hononrahie    decorationa         (accus,) 

itasankereha        narimasen. 

if^wo'don^i'mahe,  (it)doean*t^heeome,j 


"  As  the  New  Year 
is  approaching,  it 
"will  never  do  not  to 
decorate  (the  gate)." 


CHAPTER    VI. 

The  Numeral. 


CARDINAL    NUMBERS. 

IT  146.  In  European  grammars  the  numerals  are  generally 
disposed  of  in  a  few  lines,  as  forming  a  mere  subdivision 
of  the  adjective.  In  Japanese  the  numeral  is  rather  a 
species  of  noun,  and  a  species  of  noun  with  marked 
peculiarities  of  its  own,  necessitating  its  treatment  as  a 
separate  part  of  speech. 

IF  147.  There  are  two  sets  of  numerals,  one  of  native  and 
the  other  of  Chinese  origin.  The  native  set  is  now 
obsolete  except  for  the  first  ten  numbers,  which  are  as 
follows  : — 


1  hitotsu 

2  futatsu 

3  mitsu 

4  yotsu 

5  itsutsu 

6  mutsu 

7  nanatsu 

8  yatsu 

9  kokonotsu 


10  to 


M.  FORM  USED  IN  COMPOUNDS. 

ENUMERATIVB  FORM. 

htto(-tsuki){  I  month' 

)       hi 

ruta(- 

„  K  2 

»  ) 

fn 

mi(- 

..  ;(3 

mi 

yo(- 

,.  ;(4 

..  ) 

yd 

itsu(- 

» ;(5 

1       itsu                             • 

mu(- 

»  X6 

91 

1       mu 

nana(- 

» ;(7 

9} 

\       nana 

ya(- 

» ;(8 

19 

)    y& 

kohono(- 

» ;( 9 

91 

)       ho{ko)no 

to(- 

..  >>(io 

)) 

)       io                              I 

NATIVE  JAPANESE   NUMERALS.  99 

N.  B.  It  will  assist  the  memory  to  notice  that  the  even  numbers 
are  formed  from  the  odds  of  which  they  are  the  doubles  by  a  process 
of  vowel -strengthening,  the  consonants  being  originally  the  same, 
though  slightly  disfigured  in  modern  pronunciation,  thus : 

I  hUo  (anciently  probably /i/o),      2/u/a  (anciently  probably /u/a). 

3  mi,  6  wru. 

4yo,  Sy2u 

5  itsu  (anciently  i/u),  xo  to, 

IT  148.  The  substantive  forms  of  the  numerals  may  either 
be  used  quite  alone,  or  they  may  follow  the  noun,  or 
lastly  they  may  take  the  postposition  wo,  "  of,  "  and  precede 
the  noun.  They  very  rarely  precede  a  noun  without 
the  intervention  of  no.     Thus  : — 

Ikutsu  gozaimasu  ka  f—Hitotsu.  |  **  How  many  are 
Mtg'mauw       ore  f  o»e.     (there? — One.*' 

Tsutsumi  hitotsu,  or  )      *,  in,  .  „ 

Hitotsu  no  tsutsumi.  ]     "  One  parcel. 


Mitsu  de  takusan    (de  gozaimasho). 


"Three    will 
no     doubt     be 
(plenty.'* 


Yatsu  de  tarimasH  ka? 

JBighi  hw,  wiii-'Bumee    f 

To  hakari     kudasai. 

SFen  ahmui      emuifeBeeHd, 

Iki       mo       kaeri     mo 

O0ia^g    atB09   reinruiufg    atBO^ 

hitotsu  michi, 

0ue  road. 


\  **Will  eight  be  enough  ?" 

"  Please  give  me  about  ten.** 

'^Taking    the    same    road 
there  and. back  again." 


IT  149.  The  form  used  in  compounds  always  precedes  the 
noun  to  which  it  refers,  as  hito-tskkiy  **  one  month ;  ** 
futa-hako,  "  two  boxfuls  ;  *'  mi-han^  **  three  nights.'* 

IT  150.  The  enumerative  form  is  used  in  counting  over 
things,  e.g.  a  bundle  of  paper  money,  linen  to  be  sent  to 
the  %ash,  etc. 


zoo  THE   NUMERAL. 

IT  151.  Though  the  native  Japanese  numerals  above  "ten  " 
.  are  now  obsolete  for  ordinary  purposes,  note  that  hatacki^ 
the  old  native  word  for  "  twenty,'*  is  still  used  in  the  sense 
of  "twenty  years  of  age, "  and  that  chiy  "a  thousand, "  and 
yorozu,  "  a  myriad,  "or  "  ten  thousand,  "  are  still  retain- 
ed in  proper  names  ^nd  in  a  few  idioms,  e.g.  Chi-shima, 
"  the  Thousand  Isles,"  i.e.,  **  the  Kurile  Islands ;"  Yorozu- 
ya,  a  favourite  shop-name,  probably  originating  in  the 
fact  of  many  sorts  of  articles  being  exposed  for  sale. 

IT  152.  The  set  of  numerals  borrowed  from  the  Chinese  is : — ■ 

1  ichi,  rarely  itsu  6  rokuy  rarely  riku 

2  ni  7  shichi 

3  san  8  hathi 

4  shi  9  kuy      rarely  kyu 

5  go  10  > 

100  hyaku         1,000  sen         10,000  man  or  ban 

N.  B.  Ichi  also  means  "whole,**  *•  all,**  as  ichi-nichi,  "  one  day," 
but  also  "  all  day  long.'*  The  native  Japanese  numeral  httOt  "  one," 
has  come  to  have  the  same  secondary  sense  in  certain  cases,  as 
hito-ban,  "one  night"  or  "all  night" 

All  the  Others  are  formed  by  combining  these,  thus : 

11  jU-ichi  20  ni-jH  2g  ni-ju-ku 

12  ju-ni  21  ni-jU'ichi  ^o  san-ju 

13  jU-san  22  ni-ju-ni  40  shi-jil 
i^ju-shi  2^  ni-ju-san  50  go-ju 
^5  j'^'go  24  ni'jU'Shi  60  roku-ju 
16  ju-roku  25  ni'ju-go  70  shlchi-jfc 
ly  jU'Shichi  26  ni- ju-roku  So  hachi-jil 
iSju-hachi  27  ni-ju-shlchi  90  ku-jH 
igju-ku  28  ni-ju-hachi  100  ip-pyaku  (for 

ichi  hyaku) 


CHINESE   NUMERALS.  lOI 

200  ni-hyaku        300  sam-hyaku  (for  san  hyaku) 

1,000  iS'Sen  (for  ichi  sen)  10,000  ichi-man 

100,000  fu-man  1,000,000  hyaku -man 

108  hyaku  hachi       365  savi-hyaku  roku-jU-go 
1,889  ^^--s^w  hap'pyaku  hachi-ju-ku 
38,000,000  san-zen  hap-pyaku-man 

There  is  a  term  oku  meaning  100,000,  and  a  term  cho 
meaning  1,000,000;  but  they  are  scarcely  ever  used,  being 
almost  always  replaced  by  multiples  of  man,  as  in  the 
examples  just  given. 

IT  153.  The  Chinese  numerals  are  not  often  used  indepen- 
dently. It  is  customary  to  make  them  precede  a  noun, 
with  which  they  form  a  sort  of  compound,  as  ichi-nen, 
"  one  year  ;'*  is-sun  (for  ichi  sun),  **  one  inch.** 

In  forming  such  combinations,  note  the  category  of 
letter- changes  of  which  the  following  are  examples  : 

ch  it'Cho  for  ichi  cho         **  one  c/w*  '* 

hat-cho        „   hachi  cho       **  eight  „ 


jit-cho 

„  ju  cho 

*^ten     „ 

/"and  h  ip-pun 

„   ichi  fun 

**  one  minute  '* 

ip'pen 

„   ichi  hen 

**  once  " 

sam-pun\ 

„  san  fun 

**  three  minutes  '* 

sam-ben 

„   san  hen 

"  thrice  ** 

top 'pun 

„   rokufun 

**  six  minutes  ** 

r op -pen 

„   roku  hen 

"  six  times  " 

jip-pun 

„  juftin 

**  ten  minutes  *' 

jip-pen 

„  ju  hen 

**  ten  times  '* 

♦  A  measure  of  distance  equivalent  to  about  120  yards  English, 
t  Some  words  change  /,  not  into  /,  but  into  b  \  thus  sam-btikUf 
"  three  scrolls,"  from  san  oxid  fuku.  .,,-^-'^*" 


102 


THE  numeral: 


m 


sh 


{hyap'pufiHov  hyakufun 
hyap-pen     „   hyaku  hen 


'  a  hundred  minutes)" 
'  a  hundred  times  " 


{sem-hurr' 

sen  fun 

"  a  thousand  minutes)" 

sem-ben 

sen-hen 

"  a  thousand  times  " 

ik-kin 

ichi  kin 

"  one 

pound  " 

san-gin 

san  kin 

"  three 

pounds  " 

rok-kin 

roku  kin 

**six 

n 

jik-kin 

ju  kin 

"ten 

>> 

hyak-kin 

hyaku  kin 

"  a  hundred   „ 

sen-gin 

sen  kin 

"  a  thousand  „ 

sant'tnai 

san  mai 

"  three 

(flat  things)" 

sem-mai 

sen  mai 

**  a  thousand     „ 

is 'SO 

ichi  so 

"one 

(vessel)" 

san-z6\ 

san  so 

"  three 

(vessels)" 

has-so 

hachi  so 

"  eight 

>> 

jis-so 

jUsd 

"ten 

}) 

sen-zo 

sen  so 

"  a  thousand     ,, 

iS'Shaku 

ichi  shaku 

"one 

foot" 

haS'Shaku 

hachi shaku 

"  eight 

feet  " 

[jiS'Shaku"^ 

ju  shaku 

"ten 

")" 

it-teki 

ichi  teki 

"one 

drop  " 

hat-teki 

hachi  teki 

"  eight 

drops  " 

jit-teki         „  ju  teki  "  ten  „ 

N.  6.  Though  the  difficulty  of  making  these  letter- changes  cor- 
rectly will  strike  the  beginner  chiefly  in  the  case  of  numeral  combina- 
tions, the  same  euphonic  rules  apply  to  all  other  Chinese  compounds, 
thus: 

ket-chakUf  from  ketsu  chaku^  •*  decision,"  "  final  resolve.*' 
iem-pOf         „      ten  ho,  (See  vocabulary.) 

♦  Not  in  use. 

t  Some  words  in  5  do  not  change  the  s  into  ar,  thus  san-satsu,  **  three 
volumes,"  not  san-zatsu. 


Nip-pon,  from  nitsu  hon. 

akku. 

,      aku  kdy 

amtna, 

,      an  may 

mes-sOf 

,      metsu  sOy 

zas-shi, 

,      zatsu  shi, 

het'to, 

,      betsu  to, 

PECULIARITIES  OF   NUMERALS.  I0| 

"  Japan." 
*'  bad  language." 
**  a  shampoocr." 
**  extravagant." 
"  a  magazine,"  "a  review." 
"  a  groom." 
(In  practice  the  hyphen  is  generally  omitted  in  such  wends.) 

IF  154.  The  Japanese  numerals,  as  far  as  they  go,  are  most- 
ly employed  with  Japanese  nouns,  and  the  Chinese  nu- 
merals with  Chinese  nouns.  But  there  are  numerous  ex- 
ceptions to  this  rule,  for  instance  : 

it'toki  (but  also  ktto-toki),  "  one  hour." 
futa-fufUf  "  two  married  couples." 

mi'ban^  **  three  nights." 

yo-nen,  "  four  years." 

After  "  ten,"  beyond  which  the  Japanese  numerals  no 
longer  run,  the  Chinese  numerals  are  perforce  employed 
with  Japanese  as  well  as  with  Chinese  words,  thus  : 

jU'tii  hakOy  "  twelve  boxfuls." 
hyaku  kumi,  a  hundred  sets. 
IF  155.  Usage  plays  various  freaks  with  the  numerals. 
Thus  the  Chinese  numeral  shiy  "  four,"  which  is  consider- 
ed unlucky  because  homonymous  with  shi,  "  death,"  is 
in  many  contexts  replaced  by  the  equivalent  Japanese 
numeral  yo]  for  instance  : 

.  yo-nitiy         "four persons."  {Shi-nin means  "a corpse.") 
ni'jU-yO'ban,  **  No.  24." 

N.  B.  The  vulgar  sometimes  go  a  step  further,  corrupting  the  yo 
into  yon.    Thus  they  will  say  yon-jU,  instead  of  ski-ja,  "  forty." 

The  Chinese  shichi,  "  seven,"  is  sometimes  replaced  by 
the  Japanese  nana.  This  is  done  for  clearness '  sake,  as 
shichi  is  easily  confoundied  With  sAt,   **four.**      Thus 


t04  THE   NUMERAL. 

tradesmen  will  often  say  nana-jis-sen,  instead  of  shtchi- 
jis-setiy  "  seventy  cents."  But  this  is  never  either  neces- 
sary or  elegant. 
IF  156.  Usage  likewise  establishes  a  shade  of  difference  in 
the  sense  of  certain  expressions  which  would  at  first  sight 
appear  to  be  synonymous,  thus  : 

hitO'hako,    "  one  boxful  ;  "      hako  hitotsu,  **  one  box." 
hito-tsuki,    "one  month;"      ichi-getsu,       "  the    first 
month,"   i.e.,    **January;"   ik-ka-getsu,   "one    month." 
(For  ka  see  H  159,  middle  of  p.  106.) 

hlto-hany    "  one  night ;"     ichi-ban,  "  number  one." 
fiita-ban,   **  two  nights  ;"  ni-ban,      "  number  two." 
N.  B.    Both  these  ban^s  are  of  Chinese  origin  ;  but  they  are  differ- 
ent words  written  with  different  characters. 

AUXILIARY   NUMERALS. 

IT  157.  In  English  we  do  not  say  "  one  bread,"  "  two  beers," 
but  "  one  loaf  of  bread,"  **  two  glasses  of  beer."  Similar- 
ly we  say  "  ten  sheets  of  paper,"  "a  hundred  head  of  cattle," 
"so  many  rubbers  of  whist."  Compare  also  the  Pidjin- 
English  "  piecey,"  in  such  expressions  as  "  one  piecey 
man,"  "two  piecey  house,"  etc.  Words  of  this  kind  are, 
in  Japanese  grammar,  termed  "  auxiliary  numerals." 
"  Auxiliaries  to  the  numerals"  would  be  more  strictly 
correct.  The  term  "classifier"  has  also  been  proposed  ; 
but  "  auxiliary  numeral "  is  that  which  has  obtained 
the  widest  currency.  The  auxiliary  numerals  constitute 
a  highly  important  class  of  words.  For  whereas  in 
English  such  expressions  as  those  just  mentioned  are 
somewhat  exceptional,  they  are  the  rule  in  Japanese. 

II  158.  In  some  cases,  indeed,  the  numeral  is  prefixed  direct- 
ly to  the  noun,  e.g.,  ichi-nichiy  "  one  day ;"  ichi-nin,  "  one 


AUXILIARY  NUMERALS.  I05 

person;"  ichuriy  "one  league."     But  usage  ordinarily 
demands  the  insertion  of  an  auxiliary  numeral,  as  : 

tera  ik-kefiy  "  temple  one  eaves,"  i.e.,  "  one  Buddhist 

temple."' 
fiton  sam-mai,  "quilt  three  flat-things,"  i.e.,  "three- 
quilts." 
onna  roku-nin,  "woman  six  persons,"  i.e.,  "six  women." 
N.  B.  One  may  also  say  ik-ken  no  tera,  sam-mai  no  fUton^  etc. 
IF  159.  The  choice  of  the  auxiliary  numeral  appropriate  to 
each  class  of  words  is  fixed   by  custom,  a  mistake  in 
this  matter  producing  the  same  absurd  effect  as  does  a 
wrong  gender  in    French  or  German.       The    Japanese 
auxiliary  numerals  are,  however,  easier  to  remember  than 
the  French  and  German  genders,  since  they  are  generally 
more  or  less  founded  on  reason,  as  will  be  seen  by  the 
following  list  of  those  most   in   use.     As  the   auxiliary 
numerals  are  always  employed,  not  independently,  but  in 
combination   with  the  numerals  proper,  we   give   them 
here  preceded  in  each  case  by  ichi,  "  one,"  and  «t,  "  two." 
The  student  should  carefully  notice  the  phonetic  changes 
caused  in  many  instances  by  the  presence  of  ichi^  and 
should  refer  to  the  table  of  changes  on  pp.  loi — 102.     The 
presence  pf  ni  causes  no  such  changes.     An  auxiliary 
numeral   may  therefore  always  be  seen  in   its   original 
shape  when  following  that  word.     The  chief  auxiliary 
numerals  are  : 

(ichi'bUy  ni,  etc.-)  bu,'*  a  class  ;"  for  copies  of  a  book. 
(it-cho,  ni')ch6f  "  a    handle ; "    for    things    with 

handles,  such  as  muskets,  jinri- 
kishas,  and  many  kinds  of  tools. 
{ichi-daiy  ni')dai,         "  a  stand  ;"  for  carriages  and  jin- 
riklshas. 


I06  THE   NUMERAL. 

{ip'puku,  ni-YukUf  (various  meanings  ;)  for  scrolls, 
sips  of  tea,  whiffs  of  tobacco,  and 
doses  of  medicine. 

(ip'pai,  ni')haiy  "  a  wine-cup  ;"  for  cupfuls  and 

glassfuls  of  any  liquid. 

N.  B.    Ip-pai  also  means  "  full." 

(ip'piki,  ni')hikiy  "  a  fellow ;"  for  most  living  crea- 
tures, excepting  human  beings 
and  birds  ;  also  for  certain  quan- 
tities of  cloth  and  sums  of  money. 

(ip'pon,  m-)hony  "  a  stem  ;  "  for  cylindrical  things, 

such  as  sticks,  trees,  fans,  pens, 
bottles,  newspapers  rolled  up  to 
be  posted,  etc. 

{ichi'jOf  «v][;o,  "  a  mat  ;**  for  mats. 

{ik'ka,  ni-)ka^  "  the  culm  of  the  bamboo  ; "  for 

a  few  things  that  have  no  other 
auxiliary  numeral  appropriated 
to  them,  and  especially  for  times 
and  places. 

{ik'Metiy  ni-)ken,  "  eaves  ;'*  for  buildings  generally. 

(ik-kyaku,  ni-)kyakUf  **  a  leg  ;"  for  chairs  and  tables. 

{ik-ko,  ni-)kOf  the  same  as  ka,  but  less  used. 

{ichi-maiy  ni')mai^  "  a  shrub  ;  "  for  flat  things,  such 
as  sheets  of  paper,  coins,  plates, 
coats,  shirts,  rugs,  etc. 

{ichi-mei,  ni')meiy  "  a  name  ;  "  for  human  beings. 
This  word  met  is  somewhat 
bookish ;  nin  is  more  genuinely 
Colloquial. 


AUXILIARY  NUMERALS. 


tor 


{ichi'tnenj  ni')men^ 


{ichi-nitif  ni')tiin, 
{is-satsu,  ni')satsu, 


**  a  surface ;  "    for    mirrors    and 
framed  pictures  (Jap.  gaku), 
"  a  person  ;  "  for  human  beings. 
"  a  volume  ;  "   for  volumes  of  a 
book.     Do    not    confound    satsu 
with   few,   which   latter  refers   to 
complete  copies  of  a  work,  irre- 
spective of  the  number  of  volumes 
contained  in  it. 
**  a  head  ;  "  for  poems. 
"  a  boat ;  "  for  boats  and  ships  of 
every  description. 
**  a   foot ; "    for    pairs    of  socks, 
clogs,  and  boots. 

"a  head;  for  some  few  quadrupeds, 
such  as  horses  and  cattle.  But 
it  is  safer  to  use  hiki  in  all  cases. 
**a  feather; "  for  birds.  This  word 
suffers  irregular  phonetic  changes, 
thus  : 
3  sam-ha  4  shi-wa  5  go-wa  6  rop-pa 
7  shichi-wa    8  hachi-wa   9  ku-wa     10  jip-pa 

ir   160.   EXAMPLES  OF  THE  USE  OF   THE  AUXILIARY  NUMERALS. 

"  One  sheet  of  (a  certain  com- 
mon kind  of)  paper." 

**  One  (Japanese)  poem." 

**  One  mirror." 

**  Two  pen-knives." 


{is-shUf  ni')shu, 
(is-sOf  ni-)sdf 

{is-sokuy  m')sokUf 

{it-tOy  ni-)td, 

(ichi'Wa,  ni-)way 


Hanshi  ichi-mai. 

Uta  is-shu. 
Kagami  ichi-inen, 
KO'gatana  ni-cho, 
Fude  sam-bon. 


«*  Three  pens." 


I^ 


THE   NUMERAL. 


"  Five    volumes."       {JJon= 
"book.") 

I"  Six  places." 

**  Ten  war-vessels." 

I "  A  hundred  head  of  cattle." 

I     "A  thousand  sparrows"  (in 
(nature). 

"  A  thousand  sparrows"  (in 
art). 

Ichi-nim-biki  no  kuruma.  f     "A  jinrikisha   with    one 

One^erMOifpuU     *§    vehicle,  {man." 

Ichi'fiin-nori  no  kuruma.  f     "  A  jinrikisha   capable^  of 
One-pertoi^iife    '#    vehicle,  (holding  One  person  only." 

Ni-nin-nori    no   kuruma.  f     "A  jinrikisha  capable  of 
rwo'per.oH^iae  '#  vehuie.      (holding  two  persons." 

Ni-tO'biki     no    basha.     J     **A     wrriage     with    two 
Two-heaa-pull   't    carriafre.    (horses." 


Hon  gO'Satsu. 
Rok-ka-sho. 

SiX'pieceff^lace. 

Gunkan  jiS'SO. 

Ushi  hyap-piki. 
Ushi  hyaku'to. 

Suzume  sem-ba. 
Sem-ba  suzume. 


{ 


Tsugi  no  ma   kara    isu  > 

JVexi    of   r00am  ftotm  chair 

wo      san-kyaku       bakari 
(accusj     ihrec'leif  ahoni 

motte      koi. 
carrffi^K    ceme. 

Aral    ip-piki    no  mushr 

Oh  i    oue^ieceff  of    ingeci 

WO       ko-tori      ga    ni-wa 
{accus.)  Bmall'biril  (nom.)iic0'9t>iug 
de       arasotte,      hipparikko 

hff       attpntiHg,  pull 

shite    orimasit^ 
dmiHg        are. 


<'Just  bring  in  three 
^chairs  from  the  next 
room."  (Said  to  one^s  own  ser- 
vant or  to  a  coolie.) 


**  I     say !    there   are   two 

little     birds     fighting     over 

-an    insect,  and     pulling    it 

backwards,     and     forwards 

between  them." 


NATIVE   AUXILIARY  NUMERALS. 


109 


Go 'go      no      san-ji      v 

J^pcwafter    0f    ihree^honr 

goro    ni    deru     kara,     sore 

mhmni    mi  if c^omi  because,  thai 

made     ni     nunim-hiki      no 

'^f    ./^  '-f-^^y^.-i'-''.;^  Isee  that  Sijinrikisha  with 
jinnki      tchi-dat      shita-f .  .  •'       ,    r_ 

JinrihiBha    ^He^Btand        pre' 

ku  sasete-  oite 

t§armii0u  ennBiHg»i0'do  pMaeing 

kudasai,. 

^OHdeBceuif, 

de 


**Iamgoingoutatabout 
three  o'clock.     So  please 


two  men  is  ready  for  me  by 
then. '' 


Ddgu-ya 


A 


"  Please  send  a  coolie  to 
fetch  a  pair  of  screens  and 
^two  kakemonos,  which  I 
have  just  purchased  at 
the  curio-dealer's." 


bydbu 

Curim'h^tBBe      «l»         Bcreeu 

is 'SO        tOy        kakemono 

oue^air     and,  hamgiug^Bcroii 

ni-fuku  katte 

tiro^order  hawing^oughi 

oita     kara,  kozukai     wo 

placed  heeaHBe,  emoiie  (accus,) 

tori     ni    yatte     kudasai, 

fetch     t0  Bending  condeBcend*   ^ 

IT  161.   It  will  be  noticed  that  all  the  examples  hitherto 
given  of  auxiliary  numerals  are  Chinese.*     The  auxiliary 
numerals  of  native  Japanese  origin  are  far  less  numerous. 
The  only  ones  worth  mentioning  here  are : — 
{hito-)  hashiray  **  a  post ;  "  for  Shinto  divinities. 

„  kumiy  **  a  company  ;  "  for  sets  of  things  or 
persons,  such  as  toys  consisting  of 
more  than  one  part,,  tea-sets,  nests  of 
boxes  that  fit  into  each  other,  pairs  of 
gloves,  parties  of  tourists,  etc. 
„  mune,  "the  ridge  of  a  roof;  "  for  houses  and 
any  groups  of  buildings  included  under 
one  roof. 

•  Wa  (p.  107)  indeed  is  Japanese.  But  we  have  classed  it  under  the 
Chinese  auxiliary  numerals,  because  it  is  always  used  in  conjunction 
with  the  Chinese  numerals  icki,  ni,  etc. 


no  THE   NUMBRALr 

{hito-)  soroe,      **  a  match ;  "  for  sets  of  things  of  like 
nature,  such  as  suits  of  clothes. 
„     sujif        "  a  line  ;  *'  for  rope -like  things. 
„     tomaiy     *'a   hut  thatched  with    matting;*'    for 
godowns  (store-houses). 
The  native  auxiliary  numerals  up  to  "  ten  "  inclusive 
take  the  Japanese   numerals   before   them,   thus :  futa- 
hashirUf  mi-kumiy  mU'tomai.     After  **  ten  "  they  take  the 
Chinese  numerals,  thus  :  jd-ni-hashira,  ni-ju-kumi,  shi- 
ju-kachi-tomai.     No  euphonic  changes  take  place. 

N.  B.  Things  having  no  special  auxiliary  numeral  appropriated  to 
them  are  counted  by  means  of  the  native  Japanese  numerals  hltotsu, 
futatsuj  etc.;  thus  tatnago  httotsut  "  one  egg ; "  momo  to  bakari 
**  about  ten  peaches."  Even  things  provided  with  a  special  auxiliary 
numeral  sometimes  replace  the  latter  by  httotsu,  f&tatsth  etc.,  in 
slipshod  talk. 

IT  162.  In  Classical  Japanese,  human  beings  are  counted  by 
means  of  the  native  numerals,  with  the  unexplained 
suffix  tari  attached.  Of  these  words  the  Colloquial 
language  has  only  retained  the  following  : 

hltori,  (for  hito-tarif)  "  one  person ;  " 

/atari   {ior  futa-tari),  **  two  persons  :  ** 

yottari  {£ot yo-tariy)     **  four  persons  ;  " 

which  are  used  concurrently  with,  but  oftener  than,  their 

Chinese  synonyms  ichi-nitiy  ni-nin  and  yo-nin."^ 

IT  163.  Questions  respecting  number  and  quantity  are  asked 
by  means  of  the  word  iku^  which  is,  however,  not  used 
alone,  but  always  in  combination,  thus : 

iku-ra  ?  how  much  ?,  lit,  **  about  how  much  ?  ",  ra  being 

*  See  IF  155  for  the  substitution,  even  before  Chinese  auxiliary 
numerals,  of  Japanese  yo  for  Chinese  shi^  *'four." 


INTERROGATIVE   NUMERAL  WORDS.  Ill 

the  particle  of  vagueness  already  mentioned  in  pp.  28 — 29 
as  helping  to  form  certain  plurals ; 

ikU'tahi  ?     **  how  often  ?  *' 

iku'tsu  ?      "  how  many  ?  " 

;K:£V/}         •'       "     (said  of  people); 
iku-mai  ?  „       „     (said  of  flat  things) ; 

iku'hon  ?  ,,       „     (said  of  cylindrical  things) ; 

and  so  on  with  all  the  auxiliary  numerals. 
IT  164.  Iku  may  be  replaced  by  naniy  usually  shortened  to 
nan  in  such  contexts.     Nani,  though  itself  Japanese,  is 
chiefly  found  before  words  of  Chinese  origin,  thus : 
nan-ji  ?        "  what  o'clock  ?  ** 
nan-nen  ?     "  how  many  years  ?  ** 
nan-nin  ?     **  how  many  persons  ?  " 
nan-ri  ?        *^how  many  leagues  ?  " 
Very  often  the  word  hodo,  **  about,"  is  added,  thus : 
nan-nen  hodo  ?  nan-ri  hodo  ? 
"  How  much  ? "  is  often  rendered  by  ika-hodo  ?  dore 
hodo?  or  dono  kurai  P  all  really  meaning  **  About  how 
much  ? " 
ir  165.  The  following  are  examples  of  the  use  of  the  Japan- 
ese auxiliary  numerals  and  of  the  interrogative  numeral 
words : 

Sakazuki  hlto-kumi,       "  One  set  of  5a^^-cups." 
Yofuku  hitO'Soroe.         **  One  suit  of  foreign  clothes." 
Kami  fhUa-hashira.        **  Two  Shinto  deities." 
O  iku-tari        de 


gozatmasu, 
aref 


*'  How  many  are  there 
in  your  party  ?  " 


Yottari  desii.  "  There  are  four  of  us." 

Nan-ji  desu  ?  "  What  o'clock  is  it  ?  " 


IIZ 


THE   NUMERAL, 


Iku-tsu  gozaimasu  ? 
Iku-hon  „ 

Iku-mai  (etc.)  „ 


**How  many  are  there  ?  *' 
(The  choice  of  one  or  other  oC  these 
Japanese  equivalents  depends  on  the  na- 
ture of  the  object  referred  to.    See  t  159.) 


Kono 
This 

iku-ra 
Kesa 

VhU 

kwaji 


no 


fansu 
desup 

ake-gata 

dmWH  *B 

dty  naga-ya    ga 
futa-mune  yaketCy 

tw0  r00f'^i4geB     hmviMg  bnrnif 

dozo      ga  hitO'tomai  ochita 
g^dowtn    (nom.)     one^hui      feii 

SO         desu, 

4», 


"How 
cabinet  ? 


much    is    this 


"They  say  that  two 
naga-ya  were  burnt 
^down  and  one  godown 
ruined  by  the  fire  at 
dawn  this  morninsr.*' 


/ 

ORDINAL,  FRACTIONAL,  ETC.,  NUMBERS. 

^  166.  What  we  term  ordinal  numbers  are  sometimes 
marked  by  suffixing  the  word  me  ("  eye  **)  to  the  Japanese, 
or  bamme  (6a«=x  "number  ")  to  the  Chinese  cardinal  num- 
bers ;  or  else  the  word  dai  ("  order  **)  may  be  prefixed  and 
nothing  added,  or  dai  may  be  prefixed  and  bamme  added, 
to  the  Chinese  cardinal  numbers.  All  such  forms  take 
the  postposition  mo,  "  of,"  When  preceding  a  noun,  thus  : 

/    Futsuka-me,         "  The 
second  day." 

Ni'do-mey  "The second 
time." 

Nan-cho-me  ?     "  What 
ward  (of  a  street)?  " 

Ni-cho-mej  "The  second 
V  ward." 


Futatsu-met 
Ni 'bamme, 
Dai  ni-ban, 
Dai  ni-bamme. 


"The  second."-/ 


Nan -go 
irasshaimasu  ? 


no 


shitsu  ni 

r99tm    iu 


"  What    is    the    number 
of  your  room  (or  cabin)?" 


ORDINAL  NUMBERS,   YEAR-NAMBS.  II^ 

Dai        san-gd         ni  ori-  \  .  ^^ 

Order  ihreetammher    4m    mmt.    I      '^I  am  in  number  three.' 

masu,  ] 

lida-machi      rokU'Cho-me     f     "  No.  20  of  the  6th  ward 
.  ni'ju'banchi.    (C/ft= "earth.*')  (of  lida  street." 

IF  167.  Notwithstanding  the  existence  of  such  forms  as  the 
above,  the  Japanese  mind  has  not,  properly  speaking, 
a  very  clear  idea  of  the  distinction  between  cardinal 
numbers  and  ordinal  numbers,  for  which  reason  the 
cardinal  numbers  are  often  used  in  an  ordinal  senses 
Thus : — 

Meiji  ni-jU'San-nen  (lit.  "Meiji  23  year"),  "the  twenty- 
third  year  of  (the  chronological  period  termed)  Meiji,"  i.e., 
"A.D.  1890,"  according  to  the  European  reckoning. 
Similarly  ni-gwatsu  or  ni-getsu  (lit.  "  two  month  "),  i.e., 
"  February  ; ''  ju4chi-nichi  (lit.  "  eleven  day"),  i.e.,  "  the 
eleventh  day  of  the  month." 

N,  B,  The  context  generally  shows  whether  the  number  should 
be  taken  as  a  cardinal  or  as  an  ordinal.  Sometimes  the  cardinal 
numbers  are  distinguished  by  the  insertion  of  an  auxiliary  numeral. 
Thus  "  two  months  *'  would  be  ni-ka-getsu,  or,  in  native  Japanese 
parlance  and  without  any  auxiliary  numetaXt  fita-tsUki. 

IT  168.  Years  are  usually  counted  by  what  are  termed 
"  year-names"  (Jap.  nengo),  i.e.,  periods  of  irregular  length 
with  names  arbitrarily  chosen.  The  present  period 
"Meiji"  began  with  the  overthrow  of  the  ShOgunate 
and  the  restoration  of  the  Mikado  to  absolute  power 
in  1868.  Occasionally  of  late,  years  have  been  counted 
from  the  supposititious  era  of  the  mythical  Emperor 
Jimmu,  who,  according  to  the  Japanese  history  books, 
was  the  first  human  monarch  of  this  empire,  and 
ascended  the  throne  on  the  nth  February,  B.C.  660.- 


"4 


THE   NUMERAL. 


IT  169.  January  is  called  shd-gwatsu,  lit.  **the  chief  month  ;*' 
sometimes  also  ichi-getsu,  lit.  "  one  month."  {Gwatsu 
is  the  Go-on,  getsu  the  Kan-on  pronunciation  of  the 
same  Chinese  character  H,  "moon;"  see  p.  7  for  these 
technical  terms).  The  other  months  are  formed  by  pre- 
fixing the  Chinese  numerals  to  the  word  gwatsu  or  getsu. 
Thus  the  months  run  as  follows : 

shO'gwatsUy    "Januar}'.**    shichi'gwatsUy**]u\y" 
ni'gwatsu,     "  February."  hachi-gwatsuy  ''August." 
san-gwatsu,  "March."      ku-gwatsu,       "September." 
shi'gwatsu,    "  April."        ju-gwatsu,        "  October." 
gO'gwatsu,    "  May."         ju-ichi -gwatsu, "  November." 
rokU'gwatsu,*^  June.**        ju-ni-gwatsuy    "  December." 

II  170.  The  counting  of  the  days  of  the  month  is  a 
medley  of  native  Japanese  and  imported  Chinese  par- 
lance. We  give  the  former  in  ordinary,  the  latter  in 
italic  type : 


ichi-nichif 

"the  i5/ofth€ 

5  jtZ-yokka, 

the  i^th 

tsuitachi. 

month." 

jU'go-nichiy                 „    i^th 

futsiika, 

.  the  2nd 

"the  16th  of 

mikka, 

yy     Zrd 

jU'Toku-nichi,' 

the  month." 

yokka, 

„     ^th 

ju-shichi-nichi,        the  I'jth 

itsuka, 

„     5^^ 

jtl-hachi-nichi,           „     iSth 

muika, 

„     tth 

ju-ku-nichif               „    igth 

nanuka^ 

„     ^th 

hatsiika,                    ,,    20th 

yoka. 

„  m 

ni'jU'ichi-nichi,        „    21st 

kokonoka, 

„     ^h 

ni-ju-ni'tiichif            „    22nd 

toka, 

„  loth 

ni'jU'San-nichiy        „    2yd 

ju-ichi-nici 

b*,  „  11th 

wt-jtZ-yokka,               „    2^h 

ju-ni-nichi 

,     „  12th 

ni'jU'go-nichi,           „    2^th 

iU'San-nich 

f,  „  13^^ 

ni-ju-roku-nic} 

li,       „    26th 

COUNTING  OF   MONTHS,   DAYS,   AND  HOURS.  II5 

ni-jU'Shtchi-nichi,   the  2yth  ni-jU-ku-nichi,  the  ^cjth 

ni-ju'hachi-nichi f     „    aSth  san-jU-nichi^        „    ^oth 

san-jU'ichi-nichi,  the  315^ 
misoka,  "  the  last  day  of  the  month*' 

(whether  the  ^oth  or  the  315^). 
6-misoka,  "  the  last  day  of  the  year/* 
N.  B.    The  word  misoka  is  tending  to  pass  out  of  educated  usage. 
ir  171.  The  above  forms,  which  are  really  cardinals,  serve 
likewise  for  such  expressions  as  "  two  days,"  "  twelve 
days,"  ** twenty  days,"  etc.      But   tsuitachi   cannot  be 
used  in  the  sense  of  **one  day,"  because  it  is  derived 
from  tsuki  tachi,  "  the  moon  rising,"  i.e.,  **  the  first  day  of 
the  moon."     "  One  day  "  is  therefore  always  ichi-nichi. 
Neither  can  misoka   be  used  in  the  sense   of  "  thirty 
days"  or  ** thirty-one   days,"   notwithstanding  the  fact 
that  "  thirty  (miso)  days  (ka) "  is  found  to  be  its  etymolo- 
gical meaning,  if  we  dig  down  into  Archaic  Japanese. 
IT  172.  Hours  are  counted  by  prefixing  the  Chinese  numer- 
als to  the  Chinese  word  ji,  "  time,'*  **  hour  /*  thus : 
ichi'jiy  "  one  o'clock.** 

yo'ji  ju'go-futif  "a  quarter (/t7.  fifteen  minutes) 

past  foUr.** 
ju-ichi'ji  han,  **  half-past  eleven." 

jH'ichi-ji  shi  -ju  -go  -fu  «, 
ju-ni'ji  ju-gO'fun  macy 
han-ji-kan,  "  half-an-hour."  (/i:an=" interval.") 

ichi-ji  kan  han,  "an  hour  and  a  half." 

IT  173.  "  Half,"  as  just  instanced,  is  han,  or,  when  used 
substantively,  ham-hun  {lit,  "half  part ").  Other  fraction- 
al and  multiplicative  numbers  are  expressed,  as  in  the 
following  examples,  by  means  of  the  words  6m,  "  part  " 
(a  corruption  of  6wn,  **  part"),  and  bai,  **  double  :  '* 


=  a  quarter  to  twelve.** 


2X6 


THE  NUMBRAL. 


sam-bu  no  ««,  "  two-thirds." 

shi'bu  no  ichi^  "a  quarter," 

jH'bu  no  san^  "  three  tenths." 

bai  or  ni-baiy  "  double,  twice  as  much." 

sam-baiy  "treble,  three  times  as  much." 

N.  B.  Such  expressions  as  ni-hu,  lit.  **  two  parts,"  may  mean  either 
"two  parts  out  of  three  "  (i.e.,  "  two  thirds"),  or  *•  two  tenths,"  or 
'^two  hundredths"  (i.e.,  **  two  per  cent "),  etc. 

IT  174.  Note  also  the  following  miscellaneous  locutions  : 
ni'doy  "twice."  san-do,  "thrice." 

("the   third 
(time." 
f "  portions 
(for  three." 
("thirty  per 
(cent." 
,      ("thirty-five 


.  ,  ("the      second  , 

'     (time. 

r-^     .  ("portions     for 

jutan-maeA    '^  „  san-mn'tnae^ 

("twenty      per 
nt'Wart,      \         ,,  -^       '^      san-wart, 

ni'Wari  go-  ( -"  twenty-five 

bu,  {percent:"  ^^^n^^an 

futatsu' 

ni-mai 

etc. 


[percent 

(it 


three   at 
time." 


mttsu 
zutsUf     "two    at  sam-mai 
l^a  time."   etc. 

in  the  second  ("in  the  third 

dai  ni  itiJ  place,"  dai  san  niy  ■  place," 

"secondly."  ("thirdly." 

"  two  or  three." 

"  four  or  five  days." 

"  fifteen  or  sixteen  persons." 


fiitatsu  tnitsu, 

shi'go-nichi, 

ju-go-roku-ninf 

jU    ni    hak'kUf    \ 
ten  4h9  eight'mlme^) 

hitotsu      okif      ) 

ichi-nichi  Oki,  (Familiar.) 
iakU'jitSU,         (Elegant 


"  eight  or  nine  out  of  ten." 
"  every  other  one,  alternate.' 


'U  « every  other  day." 


CHAPTER    VIL 

The  Adjective. 


PRIMARY    INFLECTIONS. 

175.  Compressed  into  as  narrow  a  space  as  possible,  for 
the  benefit  of  the  superficial  student,  the  salient  points  of 
the  primary  inflections  of  adjectives  in  the  TOkyO  Collo- 
quial might  be  described  as  follows : — 

I.  Adjectives  have  a  form  in  t,  which  is  both  attributive 
and  predicative,  that  is  to  say  which  may  be  used  either 
prefixed  to  a  noun,  or  else  at  the  end  of  a  sentence  with 
the  English  verb  **  to  be  "  understood,  thus : 

Takai  yama^  "  A  high  Yama  ga  takai"  The  moun- 

mountain."  tain  is  high." 

Samui  kaze,  "  A  cold  Kaze  ga  samui,  "  The  wind 

wind.'*  is  cold." 

N.  B.  Ga  must  not  be  mistaken  for  the  equivalent  of  the  English 
\irord  **  is."  It  is  a  postposition  serving  approximately  to  denote 
the  nominative  case.    (See  p.  64.) 

II.  Adjectives  have  a  form  in  6  or  H,  which  is  used  in- 
stead of  the  form  in  i  when  gozamasu,  the  polite  verb 
for  **  to  be,"  is  expressed.    Thus : 

Yama  ga  tako  gozaimasu.      **  The  mountain  is  high.** 
Kaze  ga  samu  gozaimasko,     **  The    wind   is   probably 

cold." 

III.  Adjectives  have  a  form  in  kuy  which  is  used  when 
a  verb  follows,  and  which  often,  though  not  always,  cor- 
responds to  an  English  adverb  in  **  ly  ;  **  thus : 


Il8  THE   ADJECTIVE. 

Yatna     ga  takaku  miemasu.i'*The   mountain    looks 

Jlt0UMHi4m  inom.)    Uigh       9—U$.        \         high." 

Hayaku    kite     kudasai.         ) ;,  m  •  1 1    » 

•^  r  *  Please  come  quickly. 

IT  176.  But  in  order  to  attain  to  a  full  and  satisfactory  in- 
telligence even  of  these  Colloquial  forms,  it  is  necessary 
to  dig  deeper,  and  to  see  how  matters  stand  in  the 
Classical  language,  from  which  the  Colloquial  forms  are 
still  in  the  act  of  being  evolved.  Observe  at  the  outset 
that  the  inflections  of  Japanese  adjectives  have  no  refer- 
ence whatever  to  such  European  grammatical  categories 
as  number,  gender,  or  the  degrees  of  comparison.  Their 
object  is  partly  to  distinguish  the  attributive  from  the 
predicative  relation,  partly  to  distinguish  the  end  of  a 
mere  clause  from  the  end  of  a  complete  sentence. 

IF  177.  The  Classical  termination  of  adjectives  when  used 
attributively  is  ki.  Their  termination  when  used  pre- 
dicatively  at  the  end  of  a  sentence  is  shi.  Hence  this 
latter  is  technically  called  the  "  conclusive  form,"  thus : 

ATTRIBUTIVE.  CONCLUSIVE. 

Tahaki  yama,  "A  high   \Yama  takashi,  "The  moun- 
mountain."  (     tain  is  high." 

Samuki  kazCy  "A  cold    (Kaze  samushi,    "The  wind 
wind."  I     is  cold." 

IT  178.  It  is  from  these  two  Classical  forms  in  ki  and  shi 
that  the  single  Colloquial  form  in  i  is  derived,  by  the 
dropping  of  the  distinctive  consonants  k  and  sh.  In  set 
speeches  and  in  the  conversation  of  pedantic  speakers, 
the  "attributive  form  "  in  ki  may  still  not  infrequently  be 
heard.  It  is  employed  to  the  exclusion  of  the  form  in 
i  in  the  case  of  the  words  gotoki^  "like,"  "similar,"  and 


STANDARD   CLASSICAL  FORMS.  Iig 

bekiy  a  sort  of  verbal  adjective  corresponding  to  our 
termination  "...ble,"  or  to  our  auxiliary  verbs  ** ought*' 
or  **  should,"  thus  :  shitizu-hekij  **  credible,"  **  ought  to 
be  believed ; "  osoru-beki,  **  terrible."  .  (Conf.  IT  192.) 

N.  B.  The  corresponding  conclusive  form  beshi  is  no  longer 
employed  by  educated  speakers ;  but  the  bei  perpetually  heard  at  the 
end  of  sentences  from  the  lips  Of  the  lowest  classes  in  Eastern  and 
Northern  Japan,  and  signifying  "shall,'*  "will,"  "  must,"  is  a  cor- 
ruption of  it.  For  instance,  So  dam-bet^  **  That  is  probably  so,"  "  No 
doubt  you  are  right,"  represents  an  older  So  de  aru-beshi,  and  is  equi- 
valent to  the  standard  Colloquial  So  de  gozaimasho, 

IT  179.  The  **  conclusive  form  "  in  shi  is  still  used  in  the 
words  nashi,  **  non-existent,"  "  is  not," and yoshi,  "  good," 
concurrently  with  the  commoner  forms  nai  and  yoi,  thus : 

XT     -1       •        L  •  n  f     "  Everything^  (is)  non- 

Nam\m0^  naskt.'  (E.n»t.)  .  existent* /> i.e.:   "There is 
Nannt  mo  nat»       (Famiiur.)    j.Q*^u:j^p. »» 

Yoshi,  yoshi  !      "  All  right !  " 

It  is  also  still  to  be  heard  in  such  emphatic  locutions  as 

*^*  It  is  cold,"  or  "  It  was 
cold,"  or,  *'It  is  cold  with 
a  vengeance." 

Kurasa  wa  kurashi.  **  It  is  dark,"  etc. 

IT  180.  The  third  Classical  termination  of  adjectives  is  ku. 
It  corresponds  to  the  indefinite  form  of  v^bs  (conf.  H  278 
and  ^425),  and  its  original  function  is  that  of  predicate 
at  the  end  of  every  clause  of  a  sentence  excepting  the  last, 
which  alone  takes  the  conclusive  termination  shi.    Thus : 

"The  mountains  (of 
a  certain  country)  are 
high,  the  climate  u 
cold,  and  the  human 
dwellings  there  are 
few." 


Samusa        wa     samushi, 

Vh9^otdm€MB  ma'for^  (it  is)  cold. 


Yama  takahm^  kiko  samuun^ 
jinka  sukunashi. 


I20  THE  ADJECTIVE. 

This  construction  is  now.  rarely  used  except  in  set 
speeches,  the  genuine  Colloquial  preferring  either  to  end 
each  clause  by  the  form  in  i  (sometimes  followed  by  the 
expletive  shiy  as  in  the  third  example  on  p.  124),  or,  often- 
er  still,  to  turn  the  sentence  some  other  way,  thus : 

Taiyo    wa    dkii,  atsui,  akarui\ 

Sum  at-ror,  hig,  h»i.  Might  u  fj^g  '  gun  is  a 
iaffta    de,    sono  gururi        wo  ^       ^ot,      shining 

:^J     '\n         "^7:      ^Zl'n{  yball,      around      which 
yiiset         to  tu         sekat  /    •    1         ^1-  u 

iianeU      ihmi      ^^A.^;  .ay    -.tI^     C^^cle       Other       WOrlds 

ga       mawatte   iru.  called  planets. 

(nom,)   eireliHg    are*  J 

Okii  chiisai  no     arasoi.  (     "An  argument  about 

Big    tmaii   '§     Mtpmie*  [the  size  (of  a  thing)." 


"The    article    is    a 
good  and  cheap  one." 


Shina      mo     yoroshtkereha, 
tMriicie    ml$m      wBherea9'i§'gmmiM9 

nedan    mo       yasui. 
price     ai§o   (is)  eheap* 
N.  B.  For  the  conditional  (as  in  yoroshtkereba)  thus  used,  see  f  300. 

II  181.  What  the  Colloquial  has  retained  in  full  vigour  is  a 
secondary  use  of  the  form  in  ku,  prefixed  to  verbs ;  and 
it  has  become  rather  usual,  having  regard  to  this  use 
alone,  to  call  the  form  in  question  the  "  adverbial  form," 
because  the  European  equivalents  of  Japanese  adjectives 
in  ku  are  often,  though  not  invariably,  adverbs,  thus  : 

Omoshiroku  kikoemasu.      **  It  sounds  amusing." 
Osoku  kaerimashita.  "  I  came  home  late." 

Yoku  dekita.  **  It  is  well  done." 

Okiku  narimashlta  koto!    "  How  big  he  has  become! " 
N.  B.  For  koto  thus  used,  see  top  of  p.  37. 


NarU'take      hayaku         o 

9M9...aa poB9ibie  q^iehiff  heuenrakie 

ide     nasai. 
m*ii    deigtu 


"  Please   come    as 
quickly  as  possible." 


ADVERBIAL  FORM.  IdX 

N.  B.  Just  as  vulgar  speakers  often  omit  the  termination  *My  "  of 
English  adverbs,  so  also,  in  familiar  Japanese  style,  and  not  from 
the  uneducated  alone,  do  we  hear  such  expressions  as  osoroshii  warui, 
*'  dreadful(ly)  bad,'*  where  osoroshiku  warui  would  better  accord  with 
the  old  traditions  of  the  language. 

IT  182.  The  verb  "to  be"  is  no  exception  to  the  rule  whereby 
all  verbs  must  be  preceded  by  the  adverbial  or  indefinite 
form  in  ku.     It  is  therefore  correct  to  say,  for  instance : 
Anoyama  ga  takaku  gozaimasu.  "  That  mountain  is  high." 
Kaze  ga  samuku  gozaimashov     "The  wind  will  probably 

be  cold." 
But  Colloquial  usage  prefers  to  drop  the  k  of  the  termi- 
nation in  such  contexts.      Moreover,  after  the  k  has  been 
dropped,  a  crasis  of  the  remaining  vowels  of  the  termina- 
tion ensues.     By  this  series  of  changes, 
(Stems  in  a)  Takaku  passes  through  takau       to  tako, 
(    „       „   i)  Yoroskiku  ff  „       yoroshiu  ,,  yoroshiU. 

(    »       iy  o)  Shiroku     „  „      shirou       „  shiro, 

(    n       ji  u)  Samuku     „  „       samuu       fySamu. 

N.  B,    There  are  no  stems  of  Colloquial  adjectives  ending  in  e. 
Hence  it  is  usual  to  say : 

Ano yama  ga  tako  gozaimasu  ; 
Kaze  ga  samu  gozaimasho  ;  etc. 

N.  B.  The  Kyoto  dialect  goes  a  step  further  even  than  that  of 
TokyS,  and  prefers  to  make  use  of  these  abbreviated  forms  before  all 
verbs  whatsoever.  The  same  usage  is  found  in  the  more  or  less  arti- 
ficial Colloquial  which  sometimes  makes  its  way  into  print. — Foreign- 
ers are  apt  to  say  Ano  yama  ga  takai  de  gozaimasUj  etc.  The  use  of 
such  expressions,  though  not  absolutely  forbidden,  should  be  avoided. 
If  addressing  an  inferior,  say  Ano  yama  ga  takai.  If  addressing  an 
equal  or  superior,  say  Ano  yama  ga  takO  gozaimasU* 

H  183.  It  will  be  noticed  that  all  the  inflections  of  adjectives 
are  added  to  a  stem  which  terminates  in  one  of  the  vowels 


X22  THE  ADJECTIVE. 

a,  if  0,  u.  This  stem  is  occasionally  employed  as  an 
independent  word.  Thus  Aka,  Kuro,  ShirOy  **  Brownie," 
**Blackie,"  and  "Whitie,"  serve  as  names  for  dogs. 
The  phrase  naga  no  toshi  tsiiki  means  "  long  months 
and  years "  (lit.  "  years  and  months  ").  But  by  far  the 
commonest  use  of  the  stem  is  to  form  compound  words, 
thus  : 

aka-gane,    "copper;"-  from  akaif   "red,"   and    kane, 

"  metal." 
hoso-nagai,   "slender;"   from    hosoi,   "narrow,"    and 

nagaiy  "long." 
kurushi-magire,  "wildness  caused  by  pain;"  from  ku- 
rushiiy  "  painful,"  and  ntagireru,  "  to  be  confused." 
shiro-kanCf  "silver;"  from  shiroi,  "white,"  and  kancy 

"  metal." 
yasu'domarif  "a  cheap  lodging;"  from  j/aswi  "cheap," 

and  tomarUy  "  to  stay." 
yO'SUgirUy  "  to  be  too  good ;  "   from  yoi,  "  good,"    and 
sugiru^  "  to  exceed." 

N,  B,  There  is  a  slight  difference  of  signification,  or  at  least  of 
intention,  between  such  expressions  as  takaiyama^  *'  a  high  mountain," 
and  taka-yama^  "a  high-mountain,"  similar  to  that  which  we  feel  in 
English  between  •*  high  land  '*  and  **  the  Highlands,"  or  *•  a  black 
bird  "  and  "  a  blackbird."  The  compound  form  is  more  idiomatic, 
it  tends  to  assume  a  specific  meaning  irrespective  of  the  original 
signification  of  its  constituent  parts  (e.  g.  futa-go,  **  twins,"  from 
fiita,  "two,"  and  koy  "child"),  and  it  is  that  preferred  in  proper 
names.  Thus  there  are  several  places  called  Takayama,  but  none 
called  Takai  yama, 

il  184.  From  the  foregoing  remarks,  we  may  proceed  to 
construct  a  table  of  the  primary  inflections  of  adjectives, 
as  used  in  ordinary  conversation.  We  take  as  specimens 
the  adjectives  takai^  "highj"  yoroshUy  "good;"  shiroi^ 


PRIMARY  INFLECTIONS.  I23 

**  white;"  and  samuif  "cold  ;"  i.e.,  one  for  each  of  the 
four  vowels  a,  f,  0,  «,  with  which  Japanese  adjective 
stems  terminate : 


"High."  "Good."  "White."  "Cold." 

Stem  taka  yoroshi       shiro      samu 

Predic      I        ^^^^^  yoroshii     shiroi      samui 

Indefinite      [^^^^^^  yoroshlku  shiroku  samuku 
Predic.  with' 


verb**  to  be" 
expressed 


■tako         yoroshiu     shird       samu 


**  It  is  fine  weather." 

ga     nai,\      **  There  is  no  difficulty." 
nom.)iB'U0t,\   (Gozaimasen  would  be  more  polit( 


il  185.     The  following  are  a  few  examples  of  the  use  of  the 
primary  inflections  of  adjectives  : 

O  hayo  gozaimasu,       **  Good  morning." 

MMoM9nrabiff  earfif        {it)  4m, 

Yoi  0  tenki     de\ 

O0o^  hoMourahie  vfeaiher 

gozaimasu, 
[it)  u. 

Zosa 

MMMeuliy  (now.)rf#-Mi»#.J    (Gozaimasen  would  be  more  polite  than  nai.) 
Yakamashii  /       shabetcha 

( You)are'noi§y  !  at'tor^ehattering^ . 

ikenai. 

Yoku   wakarimasen,  j     **  ^  don't   quite   un- 

iv*eif   undet^BtaHO-Hot,  ider Stand." 

Warui   no   da,  f     **  It  is  a  bad  one."' 

Bad     0ue    is.  \     (For  «o  see  II  112.) 

Tsui  ni     naku     narimashtta,  \     **  He  is  dead  at  last." 


**  Dpn't  chatter    and 
make  such  a  row !  " 


:';.i  •" 


124  THE  ADJECTIVE. 


Kanjo     wo       hayaku      doka 

Bili     {accus.)      quithiff      pieaae 

(kudasat). 
(condescend). 


"  Please  bring  the 
bill  quickly." 

(Said  to  a  hotel-keeper.) 


Ano   wakai  kirei  na     hito,       i      **That       handsome 

Vhmt  wonng      preii^f    persmn.       jyoung   fellow." 

Shina  mo  yoi  shi,  nedan  mo  yasiit.   J"  It  is  both  good 

^Mriieie  ai§o  (is)go0a,    price  ai§o(is)€heap.  j  and   Cheap." 


Takai     to    yasui      to 


"  The    cheap    ones 


do    not   wear   so  well 
as  the  dear  ones." 


Bear     and  cheap      and    aw-fmrf 

tamochi'kata  ga  chigau, 

durabUiiff      (nom,)  dilfera* 

Ai-niku     no  ame.\     "A  rainy  day  coming  just  when 

Jfteet-odiouB  of  rain,  lit  is  nOt  Wanted." 

N.  B,  Observe  the  stem-form  niku  with  no  suffixed,  here  used  ex- 
ceptionally for  the  attributive  form  nikui.  The  nick-name  Arigata 
no  Kichihei  in  one  of  the  stories  in  the  Practical  Part  is  a  similar  case. 


SECONDARY   INFLECTIONS. 

IT  1 86.  Besides  the  primary  inflections  of  adjectives,  as  set 
forth  above,  there  is  a  series  of  secondary  inflections  which 
are  employed  to  indicate  tense  and  mood.  Most  of  these 
secondary  inflections  are  obtained  by  agglutinating  parts 
of  the  verb  arw,  **  to  be,"  to  the  adverbial  or  indefinite 
form  in  kuj  euphony  producing  certain  slight  changes, 
as  will  be  seen  by  comparing  the  following  table  with  the 
paradigm  of  verbs  of  the  first  conjugation,  to  which  tin* 
belongs.  The  use  of  the  various  moods  and  tenses  will 
be  found  explained  in  If  273  et  seq.  We  have  omitted 
from  the  table  such  imperative  forms  as  yoroshikare,  "  be 
good  1 "  and  warukarcy  **  be  bad  !"     They  rarely  if  ever 

.  occur  in  practice,  save  in  a  few  such  idiomatic  phrases 
as  osokare  hayakarcy  "  sooner  or  later." 


TENSE   AMD   HOOD   INFLECTIONS. 


»s 


1 

3 

.2 

S    a. 

0) 

bo's 

)  is  bad. 

)  had  been  bad. 

igh  (it)  is  bad. 

gbad. 

I 

•a 

S 

•§^ 

S  3 

•s-2 

^^11    = 

S 

Q 
O 
O 

."* 

^ 

g  p 

^ 

^^  S  £ 

lO 

1 
Si 

^ 

»> 

1 

ll 
3  1 

'S^t 

Q 

„-l 

•j: 

^    h  'S         « 

3 

5 

«  '5 

CO 

2  > 

Q  CO 

1 

II 

5 
"S 

1    ^   1    ^^  1 

»« 

^ 

1 

II 

•«6 

11 

-« 

g 

Q 

>^    •«•«£>«    •«£ 

1 

11 

^ 

1 

g  g 

s 

1  i  1  1  i 

3 

2 
ll 

li 

4) 

1 

g 

3    3 

i! 

beg 

.It 

M       2       rj       bo 

o  o 

.2 

i^ 

i  i 

1-2 

il 

w  3 

s<     ■* 

1 

*«*  'S* 

X  fe 

^  i 

ll 

S 

g 

s  s 

H  Z 

'? 

•«r 

^r  Tx 

s 

*s 

■5  « 

O 

■£ 

II 

1 

lll^-l 

S3 

»< 

§. 

1, 

1 1 

be    bo 

a 

«  « 

Q 

5:    tt    55  >a    'a 

a  « 

.«£ 

^  rSS 

•<« 

•Ai  .^e   -Ai   -Ai  -Ai 

o  «, 

•'S 

IS 

13    IS 

ti 

•«* 

<M 

*«* 

>•»      )«*      >•»      i«A      )M 

u  S 

^ 

►«t 

•<i  t5 

"§ 

-«:-«:-«  -«i   -« 

i^ 

^ 

i^    5 

«4 

*o 

<o     <o 

««1       CO       «o       <^      <o 

S  - 

«o 

«o 

«o     «o 

n 

S 

2 

2   2 

g 

2   2   2   g  2 

Ti 

2 

2 

2   2 

<i 

o 

o 

o    o 

o    o    o    o    o 

E  -Q 

o 

o 

0   0 

H 

_b 

;s 

^  ^ 

5S 

?S    ?S    ?S    >S    ?S 

.2  o 

^ 

A 

^  ^ 

r"^ 

/-*-» 

^                       g 

r-"^ 

H 

NH    " 

H 

H 

S 

•<     .                         U) 

H 

Z 

2 

Z                       *■> 

.   )S 

JJ5 

M 

£S 

is 

- 1 

> 

2              % 

0)  S 

Is 

CO 
W  u 

OS  S 

H 

Cfl         ^ 

«  3 

OU  3 

<^  ^ 

% 

:<    S    M         £: 

^« 

«  5 

OUa 

<      Ph 

^ 

P,H 

m£: 

^      M 

H 

S         Z         ^                   r^ 

S 

PUH 

H  H 

A<     u 

<1B" 

2£ 
<  ^ 

is 

H 

Nag" 

& 

5^ 
<  ^ 

1   5 

M 

H  « 

PQ  a 

H    oa 

C 

Q     H     "     2    o 

•  H  « 

n  ^ 

H      » 

«  o 

o  o 

0S     o 

M 

Z      w      Z      «      ft 

Otf  o 

o  o 

AS       0 

fe= 

H 

M 

H      OS 

a: 

o     <     o     « 

M 

OS 

M       « 

o 

OU 

O    PU 

b 

O     0.     O     O 

o 

04 

0     fc 

IF  188.  One  of  the  most  useful  adjectives  is  what  is  called 
"the  negative  adjective  nai"  Its  proper  meaning  is 
"non-existent;'*  but  it  commonly  replaces  the  negative 


r26'  THE  ADJECTIVE. 

conjugation  of  the  verb  aru,  "  to  be,"  and  also  sometimes 
corresponds  to  our  preposition  **  without."  Its  inflec- 
tions are  as  follows: 


►»  f  Attributive  nai 


Predicative  naif  rarely  nashi. 

Adverbial  naku, 

N.  B.    The  contracted  form  no  is  not  in  common  use. 
/Certain  Present    )      .  (is  not  or  will  not 

or  Future  |"^*'  1     be. 

Probable  Present  ]      -,     -       I  probably  is  not  or 
or  Future  |««*«'-o.      f  will  not  be. 

Certain  Past  nakatta^       was  not. 

Probable  Past         nakattaro,  probably  was  not. 
And  so  on,   through   all  the  forms  given  in    the 
paradigm  of  adjectives  on  p.  125. 


IT  189.  Naif   added   to  the   adverbial   form    of    adjectives 
serves  to  form  their  negative  conjugation,  thus : 


Certain  Present    I  ,.,         .  (is  or  will  not  be 

or  Future  \yoroshtku  nat,\   ^^^ 

Probable  VvcBtn\.\yoroshiku  «a-  (probably  is  not  or 
or  Future  )      karo^  \  will  not  be  good. 

Certain  Past         \^katta  ^  ^     [was  not  good. 

Probable  Past      [y^^oshtku  na-j  probably  was  not 
FroDabie  Fast      |     kattaro,        \    good. 

And  so  on  through  the  other  moods  and  tenses. 

N,  B.  In  polite  parlance  this  negative  conjugation  in 
nai  is  mostly  replaced  by  one  with  the  verb  gozaimasen,  ' 
"  not  to  be,"  thus : 

Certain  Present  or  iyoroshiu  gozai-    f  is  or  will   not  be 
Future  \     masen^  \     good. 

Probable  Present  iyoroshiu  gozai-    (probably  is  not  or 
or  Future  \     masimaiy  \     will  not  be  good. 

And  so  on  through  the  other  moods  and  tenses. 


TENSE  AND   MOOD  INFLECTIONS. 


irj 


Nai  itself  is  not  susceptible  of  the  negative  conjuga- 
tion. There  is  no  such  expression  as  naku  nai,  "  not 
non-existent." 


ir  190. 


EXAMPLES    OF   THE    TENSE    AND    MOOD 


INFLECTIONS   OF   ADJECTIVES. 


Ko  suru  to  yokatta        ga  •" 

Aa!  kowakatta  ! 

A  re    ga  yokaro 

*^Th€it{nom.)t0ill'pr0baHi^e'g0md** 
to     omoimasu. 

ihat     (/)  think, 

Saku-battf   inu    ga      hoete^ 

MiaMi^nighii   ^oga  \mnC\  harUing^ 

sozoshikute  neraremasen  deshita. 


"  I  ought  to   have 
done  it  in  this  way." 
(Conf.  %  287.) 

f     **  Oh!  what  a  fright 
■j  I  have  had  1" 

**  I  think  that  that 
one  will  probably  do." 


Kono 


he7i 


**  I  couldn't  sleep 
last  night,  on  account 
of  the  noise  the  dogs 
made  barking." 

wa,    hat  (     "  It    is   quite    tire- 


Vhig  neighbourhood  mffor^  Miea  ]  some,    the   number  of 

ga      okutSy       uruso gozaimasu.] files    in    this   neigh- 

(nom.)beimg'maHV,iiresome       U.  Ibourhood." 

Go        tsugo        g^        o       '     / 

4f^^m^,  *.««»r«»lv         eea»M:    »f   '*  IS   inconve- 

nasaimashi.  nient  to  you. 

eOM^eMcend-  V 


Kono    goro      no  . 

VhiM      period      '# 

yokattari 

h  eiug'BOtneiitmea'good 


wa. 


tenki 

weather    aM^for, 

warukat- 

b  eiug'gotnetimea- 


\  **  The  weather 
is  so  changeable 

■just  now,  that 
one  can't  rely 
upon  it." 


tari  shite f      ate     ni  nartmasen, 

bntt  doiugt  reliunee  to  beeotnefMot* 

Tonto  mo  muzukaskiku  nai,      i     **  It  is  not  in  the 

irrme  even         diMenit      ig-uot.     jleast   difficult." 


Z28  THE  ADJECTIVB. 

Muzukashiku  nakereha^  yatte 
mitnasho,    (Conf.  ^  296.) 


"  If  it  is  not  dif- 
ficult, I  will  try  my 
hand  at  it." 


Nakucha  naranai     mono.  (     **  A  thing  one  can- 

^9'f0mt»*'heiHg9  h€cmm€»'H0t  ihing,   inot  do  without." 

'     "The        greatest 


Tenka  ni        nai  bijin. 

Hampire   in  not'exUieni    beiie. 


beauty  in  the  land." 

(Afor^/i^**  A  belle  with 
whom  there  is  none  to 
compare  beneath  [jbajthe 


COMPOUND   AND    DERIVATIVE    ADJECTIVES. 

If  igi.  Compound  adjectives  are  numerous,   and   offer  no 
difficulty.     They  sometimes  consist  of    two   adjectives, 
more  frequently  of  a  noun  or  verb  followed  by  an  adjec- 
tive, thus:  •   ^ 
usu-akai,   "light  red,"    "pink;"  from  ttSMty  ^*thin," 

"  light-coloured,"   and   akai,   "  red." 
usu-guraif  "dusk,"  "almost  dark;"  from  usui,  "light- 
coloured,"  and  kurai,  "  dark." 
•     kokoro-yasuiy  "intimate;"  from  kokorOy  "heart,"  and 
yasuiy  "easy." 
yondokoro-naiy  "  unavoidable ;"  from  yoru,  "  to  rely," 

tokorOf  "  place,"  and  naif  the  negative  adjective. 
kiki-gurushii,  " ugly  (to  hear);"  from  ^i^w,  "to  hear," 

and  kurushiif  "  painful." 
mi'gurushii,  "  ugly  (to  look  at) ;"  from  mirUy  "  to  see," 

and  kurushiij  "  painful." 
wakari-nikuif  "  difficult  (to  understand);"  from  wakaru^ 

"  to  understand,"  and  nikuiy  "  odious." 
wakari-yasuiy  "  easy  (to  understand)  ;"•  from  wakaru^ 
"  to  understand,"  and^'aswz,  "easy." 


BEKI.-.^    .  129 

If  192.  There  are  various  classes  of  derivative  adjectives. 
Of  these  the  chief  are  : — 

I.  Those  in  b'ekif   corresponding  to  our  phrases  with 

"must"  or  "should,"  or  to  our  adjectives  in  " ble," 

and  already  noticed  on  p.  119  as  being  only  used  attribu- 
tively. It  is  to  verbs  that  beki  is  suffixed, — in  the  first 
conjugation  to  the  present  tense,  as  aru-beki,  "  should 
be,"  "  necessary  ;'•  in  the  second  and  third  conjugations  to 
the  indefinite  form,  as  tabe-beki,  "eatable;"  deki-beki, 
"possible;"  not  taberu-bekiy  dekiru-beki.  In  the  Written 
Language,  beki  is  suffixed  to  what  is  termed  the  "  conclu- 
sive form  "  of  the  present  tense  of  the  second  and  third 
conjugations,  i.e.,  a  short  form  ending  in  u  without  a  fol- 
lowing ruy  thus:  tabu-beki,  {pjdeku-beki ;  and  this  use 
may  still  sometimes  be  heard  in  the  Colloquial.  A  like 
ruie  obtains  in  the  case  of  the  irregular  verbs  kuru  and 
surUy  Nvhich  always  make  ku-beki  and  su-beki.  The  verb 
miru  is  peculiar,  making  either  miru-beki  or  tni-beki, 

Su-beki  koto.  "  A  thing  to  be  done." 


Shinzu-beki  koto  "  A  credible  thing.' 

Betieve'tmuMi  thing. 


Kono  hen  ni    miru- 

VhU  neighbourhood  in^        «««- 

beki   tokoro   ga  gozaimasen  ka? 

§honid  piaee9  (nom.)     are-noi         f 


"Are  there  no 
places  worth  looking 
at  in  this  neighbour- 
hood ?" 


Omae  no    kamau-beki     koto  \ 
-Won    of  meddio'thontd  thing]      ^*  It  is  none  of  your 
de  nai.        (Familiar.)  [business." 

iM-not.  J 


Kore     wa      muko    ye  yaru- 

Vhit   at' for,  oppotite    to     »end* 

beki  mono  desu, 
mtmtt  thing     it. 


"This  is  a  thing 
.which  must  be  sent 
there." 


13^  THE  ADJECTIVE. 

N,  B,  Observe  how  the  Engh'sh  passive  idioms  arc  replaced  by 
active  idioms  in  Japanese,  in  accordance  with  the  general  tendency 
of  the  language,  commented  on  in  f  8i — 8a,  f  427,  and  f  439. 

IF  193.  II.  The  so-called  "  desiderative  adjectives  "  in  tof ,  as 
tabetaif  ** desirous  of  eating,'*  ''hungry ;"  ikitai,  "  desirous 
of  going."  These  will  be  treated  of  When  we  come  to 
speak  of  the  verb,  fi  242  and  IF  285. 

IT  194.  III.  A  noticeable  class  of  derivative  adjectives  is 
formed  by  agglutinating  to  nouns  the  termination  rashiiy 
which  corresponds  to  the  English  terminations  **  ish  "  and 
**ly,"  and  occasionally  to  some  such  phrase  as  "said  to 
be,"  or  **I  think,"  thus: 

baka-rashii,         "  foolish  ;"  from  baka^        "  a  fool." 
kodomo-rashii,     "  childish;"  from  ^cJowo,    **  chilaren." 
'    otoko-rashiiy         **  manly  ;"  from  otoko^       **  a  man." 

jozu'rashii,        {be^kilful;"}^^®"^-^^^**'         "  skilful." 

konnichi-rashiiy  j  fi^;  "u .»» '      from  konnichi,  "  to-day." 

A  much  smaller  class  is  obtained  by  reduplicating  an 
adjective  stem,  and  agglutinating  the  suffix  shii^  thus : 
ara-arashiif  **  rude  and  rough  ;"  to-doshii^  "  lengthy  ;'* 
uto-utoshiiy  "  cold  "  (metaph.),  "  estranged." 

I1  195.  It  may  be  well  to  notice,  in  connection  with  these 
classes  of  derivative  adjectives,  a  class  of  verbs  derived 
from  adjectives  by  suffixing  garu  to  the  stem,  thus : 
ikitagarUy  **to  want  to  go;"  from  ikitaiy  ** wanting  to 
go," — itself  the  desiderative  adjective  of  iku,  "  to 
go." 
kowagarUy  "  to  think  fearful ;"  i.e.,  **  to  be  frightened,*' 
from  kowaij  **  fearful.** 


GARU,   TAGARU,   QUASI-ADJECTIVES.  I3I 

mezurashigaruy  "to  think  strange;"  from  mezurashit, 

**  strange." 
N.  B.  Garu  occasionally  serves  to  verbalise  nouns,  thus :  zannen- 
garuy  *'  to  regret,"  from  zannen,  "regret." 

The  original  meaning  and  derivation  of  the  termination 
garu  is  not  clear.  Some  have  derived  it  from  ku,  the 
termination  of  the  indefinite  or  adverbial  form  of  adjec- 
tives, and  aru^  **  to  be."  But  against  this  is  to  be  set  the 
consideration  that  the  verbs  of  this  class  almost  always 
lean  rather  towards  the  signification  of  "  to  think"  or  **  to 
feel,"  than  towards  that  of  "to   be."     The   termination 

tagaru  often  means  "to  be  apt  to "  rather  than  "to 

want  to ," 

Verbs  in  garu  are,  like  verbs  in  general,  susceptible  of 
the  passive  and  causative  forms ;  thus : 

MezurashigararerUf  "  to  be  thought  strange,"  "  to  he 
lionised." 

UrayamashtgararerUf  "  to  be  regarded  with  envy," 
from  urayamashigaru,  "  to  regard  with  envy ; "  itself 
derived  from   urayamaskii,  "  enviable." 

UreshigaraserUf  "  to  cause  to  feel  joyful,"  i.e.,  "to  make 
happy ;"  from  ureshigaru,  "  to  feel  joyful,"  itself  derived 
from  ureshii,  "joyful." 

QUASI-ADJECTIVES. 

IF  196.  There  are  large  numbers  of  words  in  common  use, 
such  as  nama,  "  raw  ;"  shizuka,  "  quiet ;"  yaseta,  "  thin  ;" 
^orrt^rar^«at,  "  intolerable,"  which  at  first  sight  appear 
to  be  adjectives,  and  which  must  be  translated  into 
English  by  adjectives,  but  which  are  not  true  adjectives 
in  Japanese,  either  as  regards  origin  or  grammatical 
treatment.  Some  of  them  are  nouns,  some  are  verbs, 
some  are  phrases  formed  from  various  parts  of  speech. 


132  THE   ADJECTIVE. 

They  may  be  best  understood  by  being  classed  under  the 
following  five  headings  : — 

IT  197.  I.  Nouns    followed  by    no;    as    Amerika   no,    "of 
America,"  i.e.,  **  American."     Such  are: 
gwaikokUf  **foreign  countries;"  gwaikokii  710,  "  foreign." 
kiuy  "  gold ; "  kin  fio,  **  golden." 

konaida,     "a  short  while  ago;"  konaida  no,    **  recent." 
II.  Nouns  followed  by  «a,*  a  corruption  of  the  Classical 
verb  nam,  **  to  be  ;  "  as  shojiki  na,  lit.  "  honesty  being," 
i.e.,  "  honest."     Such  are  : 

jozu,       "  a  good  hand  (at)  ;  "   jozu  na,       "  skilful." 
kireif      **  prettiness ; "  kirei  na,      "  pretty." 

mendo,    **  a  bother ;  "  mendo  na,  '*  bothersome." 

muda,     "  uselessness ;  "  muda  na,    "  useless." 

rambo,    "  disorderly  conduct ; "  rambo  na,   "  disorderly." 
shizukUy "  quiet "  (subst.) ;  shizuka  na, "  quiet "  (adj.). 

N.  B,  No  mostly  follows  concrete  nouns,  na  abstract  nouns. 
Indeed  the  same  noun  will  take  no  or  na  according  as  it  is  viewed 
from  the  concrete  or  the  abstract  point  of  view.     For  instance,  baka 

♦  It  has  been  stated  in  IF  112  (p.  75)  that  the  postposition  no  often 
assumes  the  meaning  of  the  English  word  "one"  or  "ones,"  used 
substantively.  Thus  from  the  adjective  nagai^  "  long,"  one  can  form 
the  phrase  nagai  no^  "  a  long  one,"  and  similarly  from  such  quasi- 
adjectives  as  shojiki  and  kirei  one  can  form  the  phrases  shojiki  na  noj 
*'  an  honest  one ;"  kirei  na  no^  "  a  pretty  one,"  etc.  So  far  there  is  no 
difficulty.  Colloquial  usage  brings,  however,  to  our  notice  another 
idiom  with  na  no  (often  contracted  to  na  n'j,  which  it  is  difficult  to 
explain  in  English  except  by  the  help  of  examples,  and  whose  origin 
is  completely  obscure.     Here  are  some  examples : 

Kore  desho  ha ?-Aa!  sore  na  «'  rf«fi.  { j^  l]^,  *'' ''  ^-^^ '  ^^^ '  "^^ 


Ano  otoko  wa,  domo  akip- 
poi. — So  sa  I  Mezurashii  koto 
ga  suki  na  n*  da  kara. 


"  He  is  a  very  fickle  fellow. — Yes  in- 
deed, because  he  is  always  hankering 
after  something  new  and  striking." 


QUASI-ADJECTIVES   IN   NA  AND    SO   NA.  I33 

no  hanashi  means  **  a  fool's  story,"  "  the  sort  of  story  a  fool  would 
tell,"  whereas  baka  na  hanashi  means  '^  a  foolish  story.'*  Very  fine- 
drawn distinctions  are  sometimes  produced  in  this  way.  Thus  marui 
kao  no  hlto  means  "a  man  with  a  round  face,"  the  concrete  idea  of 
"  face  "  being  here  prominent.  But  marti-gao  na  htto  means  "  a  round- 
faced  man,"  the  abstract  quality  of  round-facedness  being  uppermost 
in  the  speaker's  mind.  This  particular  phrase  might  be  turned  in  yet 
a  third  way,  viz.,  kao  no  marui  httOj  •*  a  man  round  of  face."  Such 
idioms  as  this  last  are  treated  of  in  ^  202.  In  some  few  cases  no  and  na 
may  be  used  almost  indiscriminately.  Thus  we  may  say  mugaku  no  hito 
or  mugaku  na  htto  equally  well.  But  na  is  more  common  in  such  cases. 
198.  To  the  class  formed  by  means  of  na  belongs  a 
numerous  body  of  words  obtained  by  adding  so,  "appear- 
ance," to  the  stem  of  adjectives  proper  or  to  the  indefinite 
form  of  verbs,  thus  : 

omoshiroi,  "  amusing ;  "     omoshiroso  na,  "  likely  to  be 

amusing,"  "  anpreing-looking." 
Urnai,      "  nicelto  eat ;  "     umaso  na,   **  appetising." 
furu,       "  to  rain  ;  "  furiso  na,    "  likely  to  rain." 

kikoeru,  "  to  be  audible  ;  "  kikoeso  na,  **  audible,  one 
would  suppose." 


Taiyo  wa  asa  dete^  maiban 
hikkomu  no  ga  atarimae  da  to 
taitei  wa  omotte  imasu  ga,—jitsu 
wa,  asa  taiyo  ga  deru  no  de  wa" 
nakute,  taiyo  no  deru  no  ga 
asa  na  no  desU. 


/  "  Most  people  suppose  it  to  be  the 
natural  order  of  things  for  the  sun  to 
rise  in  the  morning  and  to  retire 
in  the  evening.  But  the  truth  is  not 
that  the  sun  rises  in  the  morning, 
but  that  the  sun's  rising  is  the  mor- 
ining." 

Of  the  various  authorities,  both  Japanese  and  foreign,  whom  the 
present  writer  has  consulted  on  the  subject  of  this  idiom,  some  pro- 
nounce it  to  be  "relative,"  others  "relative,  elliptical,  and  re- 
flective (!)."  Some  say  that  the  na  and  the  no  are  both  corruptions 
of  naruj  "  to  be ;"  some  say  that  the  phrase  means  nothing  at  all. 
Others  again  see  in  it  a  survival  of  the  Classical  particle  nan,  which 
serves  slightly  to  emphasise  the  word  to  which  it  is  suffixed.  The 
present  writer  can  arrive  at  no  opinion.  Perhaps  some  future  student 
may  be  enabled  to  shed  new  light  on  the  subject. 


134  '^^^  ADJECTIVE* 

The  forms yosasd  na,  "apparently  good,*'  and  nasaso 
nuy  "  not  likely  to  exist,"  are  derived  irregularly  from  the 
adjectives ^ot,  "good,"  and  nai^  "non-existent,"  by  the 
insertion  of  an  epenthetic  syllable  sa.  Compounds  of  wat, 
such  as  tsumaranaiy  "  worth  nothing,"  "  trifling,"  may 
either  follow  nai  in  this  its  irregularity,  or  else  be  con- 
formed to  the  rule  affecting  adjectives  in  general,  thus : 
tsumaranasaso  na  or  tsumaranaso  na,  "looking  worth 
nothing,"  "trifling-looking." 

f  199.  Sometimes  words  of  the  above  two  classes  may  be 

compounded  with  the  following  noun,  instead   of  being 

divided  from  it  by  no  or  na,  for  instance  : 
hara  na  (or  no)  hakoy  or  kara-bako,  "  an  empty  box," 
kin  no  tokei,  „  kin-dokeiy    "agold(en)  watch." 

Sometimes,  again,  a  word  may  be  treated  indifferently 

either  as  a  true  adjective  or  as  a  quasi-adjective  of  class 

II,  for  instance : 

chiisai,  or  chiisa  na,  "  small." 

Okiiy  „  oki  na,  "  big." 

yawarakai,    „  yawaraka  na,    "  soft." 

IT  200.  The  forms  of  classes  I  and  II  given  above  are  the 
attributive  forms.  When  the  quasi-adjectives  of  classes 
I  and  II  are  used  predicatively  at  the  end  of  a  clause,  no 
or  na  is  replaced  by  de,  "  being,"  which  thus  corresponds 
to  the  termination  ku  of  adjectives  proper.  When  they 
are  used  predicatively  at  the  end  of  a  sentence,  no  or  na 
is  replaced  by  any  tense  of  the  verb  "  to  be,"  such  as  da 
(familiar),  desu,  (polite),  de  gozaimasu  (very  polite).  The 
word  de  in  such  contexts  has  been  treated  of  at  some 
length  in  H  88,  pp.  60—62,  which  the  student  should 
carefully  read  over. 


QUASI-ADJECTIVBS  IN    NO,    NA,   AND  S6  NA. 


^35 


^  20I.  The  following  examples  will  show  the  use  of  these 
various  forms  of  the  quasi-adjectives  of  classes  I  and  II : — 


Igirisu  no         o  kata. 

Xnglmud  *»  k^Henrmbie  aide. 

Gin  no  ga  hoshiH  gozai- 

Silver  ^me  •f  ttettrmuf    am. 

masu. 

Okashi  na) ,         , . 
Okashii     P«««^'»- 

Kekko  na        o  shina\ 

Sptendid  k^Homrabie  mrtieie  [ 

de  gozaunasii.  [ 

{it)  iM.  ) 

Fushigi  na 

Strange 

mimashita. 


yume      wo  \ 

dream  (accus.)\ 


**  An  English  gentleman." 
**  I  want  a  silver  one," 


"  A  funny  story." 


**  It  is  a  splendid  thing.' 

(Said  in  thanking  for  a  gift.) 


*  I  had  a  strange  dream." 


Fushigi  da.      (Familiar.)       ) 
„         desa.  (Polite.)  J 

Rikd  na  inu  desu.  i 

Clerer     dog     4m»  f 

Kono  inu    wa,    rikd  desU.) 

VhU  dog  aB'foTf  clever    4b,     | 

A  no     hito      wa,     shojiki 

2*4ia<   per  BOM  aB'for,    koneBi 

de^     yoku  hatarakimasii, 
^eimgf  t0eii 


"  It  is  strange." 

**  It  is  an  intelligent  dog." 

"  This  dog  is  intelligent." 


**  He  is  honest,  and   he 
works  hard." 


Amari  somatsu  de,  shitsu- 
roo       eoarse    beiHg^  rade 
ret  desu, 
(it,)  iB. 

Are    hodo  yonda    no  ni, 
rhai  amonni  eaited  wthereaB, 
kikoeso    na        mon{o)  da, 
gUtei^io^e'^mdibie    thing     it. 


'  "  It  is  quite  rude  of  me 
to  offer  you  so  trifling  a 
present." 

(Said  in  depreciating  a  gift  made  by 
oneself.) 

**One  would  think  he 
would  hear,  after  being 
called  so  often." 


136 


THE   ADJECTIVE. 


Yosaso    na  hlto 

deshlta. 


*'  He     seemed    a    good 
t  fellow." 


l!"  202.  III.  Phrases  composed  of  nouns  (including  indefi- 
nite verbal  forms  used  as  nouns)  followed  by  «o,  «*  of," 
and  an  adjective  proper,  as  genki^  no*  yoi^,  lit.  good^  of* 
spirits*,  i.e.,  "spirited,"  **  lively."     Such  are: 
me^  no*  ckikai^y  **  near'  of*  eye*,"  i.e.,  **  near-sighted." 
mimi  no  toi,         "  far  of  ear,"  „    **  hard  of  hearing." 

wakari  no  hay  ai,*^  quick  of  understanding,"  i.e.,  "sharp- 
witted." 

If  203.  Great  numbers  of  quasi -adjectives  belonging  to 
Class  III  are  formed  by  means  of  the  words  j/of,  **  good  " 
(often  corrupted  by  the  Tokyo  people  to  «),  warui,  "  bad," 
and  nai,  the  negative  adjective.  Such  are : 
benri  noyoi,  "good  of  convenience,"  i.e.,"  convenient." 
benri  no  waruiy*^  bad  of  convenience,"  ,,  "  inconvenient." 
shUkata  no  nai/^  no  way  to  do,"  ,,  "  unavoidable." 

Such  quasi-adjectives  in  nai  as  that  last  instanced 
correspond  to  English  adjectives  with  the  prefix  "  un  "  or 
"  in,"  or  with  the  suffix  "  less,"  as ;  tsumi  no  nai,  "  in- 
nocent ;"  kagiri  no  nai,  "  boundless,"  "  unbounded." 

IF  204.  The  above  examples   are  all   attributive   in   form. 

When  the  quasi-adjectivea  of  this  class  III  are  used  pre- 

dicatively,  no  changes  to  ga  ;  thus : 

Mimi  ga  toi.  "  He  is  hard  of  hearing." 

Shi'kata  ga  nai.  "  There  is  no  help  for  it." 

These  examples  are  in  the  style  used  between  inti- 
mates.    It  is  always  more  polite  to  add  the  word  gozai- 


VERBS   USED  AS   ADJECTIVES. 


»37 


masuy  except  when  addressing  an  inferior.  Of  course  with 
gozaimasu  the  adjective  changes  the  i  form  into  that 
with  the  long  final  vowel  (see  pp.  1 17  and  121).  Thus  the 
preceding  examples  would,  in  more  polite  parlance, 
become : 

Mimi  ga  to  gozaimasu. 

Shi-kata  ga  gozaimasen  {no  gozaimasu  is  not  used). 

Ano  ko  wa,  wakari  ga  kayo  gozaimasu. 
%  205.  IV.  Various  tenses  of  verbs ;  also  phrases  formed 
from  such  verbs,  as  : 


mteruy 
Jatottaj 

dekinai, 

yomerUy 
shir  eta, 


"to  appear ;  "  hence  "visible." 

"has  become  fat;"        „      "fat." 

( "  eventuates    not ;  'M  <<  :«,«r.eo;w«  ♦♦ 

I     "cannot;"  |     -      ''^possible. 

"reads ;  "  (intrans.)       „      "legible." 
"was  knowable; " 


nakereba^na-  ( "  won't-do*    if- it-is-) 
ranai^f       \     not^;"  J 

W  «.-««-  ..becomes' to*  sake';" 

ki^  ni^  iru^f  "enters'  to*  spirit* ;  " 
M  ni  iranai,  "  enters-not  to  spirit;" 
ki^  no*  kiita^,  "heard^  of*  spirit*; " 


tsumi^        no* 
aru^, 


"is^of*  guilt*;" 


enryo^  suru*,   "does*  diffidence* ; " 
shikjari-shi.,,^.^,^^^,,„ 


"self-evident." 

"indispensa- 
ble." 

"beneficial." 

"agreeable." 

"distasteful." 

"quick-witted." 

"guilty." 

"diffident." 

"firm." 


choito^  shlta*  "did*  slightly* ; " 

gaten^       «o,  | "  goes-not'  of*  com- ) 
ikan^y         \     prehension* ; "        ) 

If  206.  The  above  are  the  attributive  forms.     Most  of  them 

serve  also  to  express  the  predicative  relation  at  the  end 


"slight." 

"incomprehen- 
sible." 


i  j8  THE   ADJECflVE* 

of  a  sentence.  Observe,  however,  that  no  must  then  be 
replaced  by  gUy  and  the  simple  past  tense  in  ta  by  the 
compound  present  tense  in te  iru  (^  294),  thus : 


A  no       ojisan  wa, 

futotte  iru. 

fat        is, 

Ano   jochu    wUf        ki 

rhai    tmaid    UB^fmr^  spirit 

ga       kiite     iru* 
(nom.)  hemriug    is. 


**  That  old  gentleman  is 
ffat." 


"That  maid -servant  is 
quick-witted." 


Of  course  the  simple  verb  may  in  all  cases  be  replaced 
by  the  polite  inflection  in  masu.  It  is  almost  always  so 
replaced  in  predicative  constructions,  except  when  an 
inferior  is  addressed.  Thus  the  above  examples  would 
become,  in  ordinary  polite  parlance : 

Ano  ojisan  wa^  futotte  imasu  (or  orimasu), 
Ano  jochu  wUf  ki  ga  kiite  imasii  (or  orimasn). 

f  207.  When  used  predicatively  at  the  end,  not  of  a  sentence 
but  of  a  clause,  most  of  the  words  of  this  Class  IV.  turn 
into  gerunds,  thus :  miete,  futotte ,  dekinakute,  etc.  But 
sometimes  a  periphrasis  with  de  is  used  instead,  as :  ki  ni 
iranai  de, 

H  208.  Foreigners  speaking  a  little  Japanese  constantly  say 
yoroshii  no  cha,'skiroi  no  Uma,  okii  no  neko,  etc.,  etc. 
But  this  is  mere  pidjin.  It  should  be  yoroshii  cha,*^  good 
tea ; "  shiroi  Uma,  **  a  white  horse ; "  okii  neko  or  oki  na  nekOy 
"  a  large  cat."  (Yoroshii  and  shiroi  are  always  trqe  adjec- 
tives, whereas  we  may  either  use  6kii  as  a  true  adjective, 
or  oki.na  as  a  quasi-adjective).  The  mistake. arises  partly 
from  a  confusion  between  no  and  ««,  partly  from  the  fact 
that  nouns  followed  by  no  often  correspond  to  the  adjec- 
tives of  European  languages,  e.g.  Nihon^  no^  kotoba^^ 


ERRORS   TO   B^  AVOIDED.  §[39 

"the  language' oP  Japan*,"  i.e.,  "the  Japanese  language;" 
moto^  no^  tsumorP,  lit.  "  the  intention^  of*  origin*,"  i.e., 
"  the  original  intention.**  No  ia  only  used  after  adjec- 
tives in  the  sense  of  the  indefinite  pronoun  "one"  or 
"  ones,"  as  already  explained  in  11  112,  thus  ; 

nn.hi  „n  a  :>     l-..,^;  •.«  f "  Which  are  the  best  ?— The 
Dochtga  tt?-Kurot  «^.|biack  ones," 

5f?*"^    )         katte       kimashUa.i     "  I  have  bought 


Qki  na  no  k^,,^.^^*,  *«c-e.i»*. 

Big  •H€»    )  * 


some  big  ones.". 


II  209.  Do  not  cpnfouad  such  Chinese  quasi-adjectives  as 
kireij  "pretty ;"  wwm^i,  "anonymous,"  with  real  adjec- 
tives, simply  because  they  happen  to  end  in  i.  One  can- 
not say  kirei  onna,  "a  pretty  woman;"  one  must  say 
kirei  na  onna.  Similarly  mumei  na  katana^  "  a  sword 
without  the  maker's  name  inscribed  on  it," 

IT  210.  V.  The  words  ko  forming  diminutives  and  6  forming 
augmentatives,  together  with  the  honorific  prefixes  o*^ 
"honourable;"  go^  "august;"  ki^  "exalted;"  and  mi, 
"honourable,"  are  quasi -adjectives,  as  in  the  following 
examples : 

kO'hin,  "  a  small  bottle." 
d'hin^  "  a  large  bottle." 
o  teray     "an  honourable  Buddhist  temple,"  i.e.,  simply 

"  a  Buddhist  temple." 
go  ho7if    "  the  august  book,"  i.e.,    "  your  book."  ' 
ki-kokUy  "the  exalted  country,  i.e.,  "your  country." 
o  mi  ashiy  lit.  "  august  honourable  feet,"  i.e.,  generally 

"your  feet." 

O  and  go  are  also  used  adverbially,  thus : 
.    *  Ciirefully  distinguish  long  t?,  *♦  large,"  from  shorty, "  honoi^rablc." 


f4<>  THE  ADJECTIVE. 

O^  yasumi^  nasai^^  lit.  "honourably*  deign*  to  rest,*" 
i.e.,  "  good  night." 

Go  yururi  to,  lit.  "  Augustly  quietly  that,"  i.e.,  "  Take 
care  of  yourself  on  your  journey." 

A  noticeable  peculiarity  of  this  fifth  class  of  quasi- 
adjectives  is  that  they  only  occur  prefixed  to  other  words. 
They  cannot  be  used  predicatively  at  the  end  of  a  clause 
or  sentence.  If,  for  instance,  we  want  to  predicate  small- 
ness  of  a  thing,  we  cannot  say  that  it  is  ko.  We  must  use 
a  totally  distinct  word,  and  say  that  it  is  chiisat,  (For 
further  details  concerning  the  honorifics  o,  go,  etc.,  see 
Chap.  XI,  IT  395  et  seq,). 

COMPARISON   OF   ADJECTIVES. 

H  211.  Comparison  in  Japanese  is  more  often  implicit  than 
explicit.  Thus,  when  referring  to  the  relative  height  of 
Fusiyama  and  Asama-yama,  a  Japanese  will  not  say  as 
we  should,  "  Fusiyama  is  the  higher,"  but  simply  **  Fusi- 
yama is  high  "  {Fuji  ga  takai,  or  Fuji  no  1w^'  ga  tahai)^ 
that  is,  it  is  high  as  estimated  from  the  standpoint  of  the 
other  mountain  mentioned.  Similarly,  when  pricing 
various  goods,  a  Japanese  will  not  say  **  Which  is  the 
cheapest  ?  "  but  simply  "  Which  is  cheap  ?"  {Dochira  ga 
yasui?)  i.e.,  by  implication,  cheap  compared  with  all  the 
rest.  Indeed  even  in  English  the  so-called  positive  is  not 
infrequently  a  comparative  by  implication.  When,  for 
instance,  we  talk  of  a  lake  as  large,  what  do  we  mean  but 

*  Ho  means  literally  "side,"  hence  *' one  "" ones  "  SiS :  Kono  ho 
ga  kataiy  *'  This  one  is  hard."  In  phrases  like  that  in  the  text,  it  has 
no  English  equivalent.  Similarly  in  such  contexts, — and  they  are  of 
frequent  recurrence, — as  toski  no  wakai  ho,  •*  The  younger  of  the  two." 


COMPARISON   OF  ADJECTIVES.  J/j^l 

that  it  is  larger  than  most  other  lakes  in  the  country 
or  in  the  world  ?  When  we  say  that  such  and  such  a 
man  is  old,  what  interpretation  can  be  put  on  our  words, 
except  that  the  man  in  question  is  older  than  the  majority 
of  people  ?  This  is  a  consideration  which  will  hardly 
occur  to  such  as  are  familiar  with  European  language's 
only ;  but  it  is  one  well  worth  pondering  for  a  moment,  as 
a  curious,  though  simple,  instance  of  the  different  channels 
in  which  Eastern  and  Western  thought  runs.  The  only 
disagreement  between  English  and  Japanese  usage  is  that 
the  Japanese  employ  these  **  comparatives  and  superla- 
tives by  implication,*'  in  nine  cases  out  of  ten,  whereas 
with  us  they  are  somewhat  exceptional. 
IF  212.  Comparison  may,  however,  be  rendered  explicit  by 
using  the  postposition  ^yoW,  "  than,"  properly  **from,"  as : 

Asama  yoriy  Fuji  ga  takai,  or  (more  frequently)  Asama 
yorif  Fuji  no  hd  ga  takai,  i.e.,  "  (Viewed)  from  (the  stand- 
point of)  Asama-yama,  Fusiyama  is  high." 

Umibe    de  sodatta  hito      wa,  v 

Sea'»h0reai  ^eu>^p people  aM-f^A  '' ^  ^Oasting  popu- 

rikugun  yori  kaigun  no  heiski   ni   lation  makes  better 
arm^      ihau,    uawp     *§  troopg   #o  fsailors  than  it  does 
tekishimasu,  soldiers." 

•nii.  J 

Muda  na  hanashi    wo  sum  yori\ 

VBeieBB  iatk    {lucus.)  4!»    ihau 

wa,       damatte       iru       ho      ga 
Uffer,       siieui       heiug    tide    (nom.) 

ii  to    omoimasu, 

{is)  fs—*     <*«<     ('^)  iki»k>  f 

At  bottom,  the  idiom  is  the  same  as  that  explained 
in  page  140,  only  more  circumstantial.  In  nega- 
tive phrases  yori  is  replaced  by  hodo,  which  means 
"quantity,"  ** amount,"  ".about,"  e.g. 


"  I  consider  silence 
-better  than  useless 
chatter." 


142  THE   ADJECTIVE. 

Asama  wa,  Fuji  hod<.  takaku  nai,  lit.  <' As  for  Asama, 
(it  is)  not  Fuji('8)  amount  high/'  i.e.,  <<  Asama-yama  is 
less  high  than  Fusiyama." 

11  213.  The  idea  of  the  superlative  may  be  rendered  explicit 
by  the  use  of  the  word  ichi-ban,  "number  one,"  "first," 
thus: 

Sore      wa,      ichUan    (     ''Th^t  will   probably   be 
rhai  mB'fyr,  •»«^iMfii»*€r  J  number  one  amusing,"  i.e.y 
omashiro    gozaimasho,      ]  "  That  will  no  doubt  be  the 
ttmu9iHfs  u>iii-pr9bmbifr*e.  (most  amusing  of  all." 

Fuji       wo  miru  ni  %va,. 
WuBiffama[accu5*)  tee  fer,         | 

Otome-toge  ga  "The    Otome-t6ge    pass 

ichi-han  yoroshiu        r^   ^^     •  !.^    ^T 

emenmmber  g-4  Fusiyama  from. 

gozaimasu.  ) 

Ichi-ban     kisha,  f     "The   first   train    in    the 

Ome^namber  train.  (morning." 

There  are  various  other  periphrases  employed  for  the 
same  purpose.  Specially  noticeable  is  one  with  the  word 
uchiy  "  inside,"  "  in,"  or  its  Chinese  equivalent  chU 
{nigori'td   to  jtl ;  conf.  p.  20) ;  thus  : 


Sono  uchi  no        yosaso 

Vhat  iHtide '«  appmremH^g—4 

na      mono. 

being  thing. 


"  Whichever  may 
seem  to  be  the  best  of 
the  lot." 


Nihon-ju    no  yushi.  f     "The  bravest  man  in 

jrojpan'inMi^e  *»     brave.  (Japan." 

IT  214.  After  all,  the  chief  thing  the  student  should  bear  in 
mind  with  regard  to  the  Japanese  equivalents  for  our 
comparative  and  superlative,  is  not  to  have  recourse  to 


MISCELLANEOUS  ITEMS.  I43 

tkem^  but  to  accustom  himself  from  the  beginning  to  use 
the  simple  positive  instead,  which  alone  is  idiomatic  in 
nine  cases  out  of  ten. 
IF  215.  "  Still  *'  with  the  comparative  is  rendered  by  one  of 
the  adverbs  motto  or  nao ;  thus  : 

Motto  chojo  made     noborimasho.      I   . .,,  %^J^u^^  u" 


Kono      ho     ,wa      nao     yoroshiU 

Vhit        oue     aM'f^r,    tiUi  go^d 

gozaiinasu. 

it. 


still  further,  up 
[to  the  very  top." 

"  This  is  a  still 
better  one." 


U  216.  "  The,"  with  the  comparative  repeated,  is  rendered 
by  hodo^  lit.  "  amount,"  thus : 

Mireba,  miru  hodo  rippa  (**The  longer  I 
•««-jr-IW«Jb,  iMJk  mm^uHif  tpieudid  Uook  at  it,  the 
desu,  I  more     splendid 

(»■*)  <*•  ut  appears." 

Takai  tokoro    hodo,     kaze     wo 

Migh      plate   amtnnif     wtimd  (accus,) 

atemasu, 
applieg. 


"The  higher  the 
situation,  the 
windier  it  is." 


IT  217.  "  Very  "  is  expressed  by  such  words  as  hanahaday 

itatte^  taiso  (»j),  takusan.    The  word  taihen  [ni)  resembles 

the  "  awfully  "  of  English  Colloquial  parlance,  and  is  in 

perpetual  requisition.     The  following  are  a  few  examples : 

Taiso  ni  kirei.  "  Very  pretty." 

mLhltT  ""'  '''^'''^'''^  ^^'^^*-)"  It  was  awfully  jolly." 

Itatte    mutuhashii    wo«(o)|"It  is  an  extremely  dif- 
da.     (Or,  more  politely,  de$U.)         )  ficult  thing." 

Hanahada        o        kinodoH  (''  I  am  extremely  sorry." 

(More  lit.  **  It  is  honour- 
able sorrow  to  Mr. 
,you.") 


Werm 

sama    {de  gozaimasu). 
jmr.         (it  is). 


144  "^"^   ADJECTIVE. 

II  2i8  Another  phrase  corresponding  to  our  Colloquial 
"  awfully  "  is  the  gerund  of  the  adjective  or  verb,  followed 
by  the  words  shi-yo  ga  nai  or  shi-kata  ga  nai,  which 
signify  literally  "there  is  nothing  to  be  done,"  "there  is 
no  help  for  it,"  thus  : 

Atsukute  shi-yo  ga  nai.        **  It  is  awfully  hot." 

T^^'i  I.-    a       L-    -        ("I  am  awfully  tired,"  or  "I 

^'*^-  (what  to  do." 

Taikutsu  de  shi-yo  ga  nai.     **  I  am  awfully  wearied." 

N,  B,  Observe  de  in  this  last  instance,  where  it  replaces  the  gerund 
because  taikutsu  is  not  an  adjective,  but  in  reality  a  noun  here  used 
ak  a  quasi-adjective. 

The  following  expressions  may  serve  to  exemplify  a 
kindred  idiom  answering  to  our  "so "  or  "  too :  " 

Kurakute  mienai.  \  "  ^^  is  so  dark,  I  can't  see ;  " 

I     or  "  It  IS  too  dark  to  see. 

Tdkutearukemasende.\"\'!;^''?.    ^".Ij^.^  T^^"'* 
^T -,  4  walk  there;    or  "  It  was  too  far 

'^'^^-  (to  walk  to." 

VhaiperLHaT.rJrJooitei'llg}  .     '!  ^?  '^  «"9?:^  ^^ol,  that 

tsukai-michi  ga   nai.  h^  is   impossible   to   make 

emptow^atf  [nom,)  ia»*t.  ]  any  use  of  him." 

If  219.  "  Not  very  "  is  expressed  by  amari,  "  excess,"  "  too," 
Qxyokei  (ni)  "superfluity,"  with  a  negative  verb,  thus: 

Amari  omoshiroku  nat,  (Familiar.)  |  "  It  is  not  very 

Amari  omoshiroku  gozaimasen.  (Polite.) )  amusing." 

v^h.:         ^r.^^:.^^..^   ("There  are  not  very  many," 
Yokei        gozaimasen,  \      .. /r^t.       •        ^  1   ». 

^  [or  "  There  is  not  very  much. 

Yokei  nimokarimasen.Y^  There  is  not  much  money 

SHperMnonatp  gaintn^i.    )  made." 


CHAPTER    VIII. 

The  Verb.  ^'i' 


U' 


GENERAL   CONSIDERATIONS. 

IF  220.  The  nature  and  functions  of  the  Japanese  verb  differ 
considerably  from  those  of  the  verbs  of  European 
languages.  Conformably  with  the  absence  of  number  in 
the  noun  and  of  true  personal  pronouns,  the  Japanese 
verb  entirely  disregards  all  considerations  of  person  and 
of  number.  **  I  am,"  **  thou  art,"  "  he  is,"  "  she  is," 
"  it  is,"  "  we  are,"  '*  you  are,"  "  they  are,"  are  all  express- 
ed by  the  same  word  da  (familiar)  or  desu  (polite). 
Similarly  all  the  persons  of  the  past  tense  (**  I  was," 
"  thou  wast,"  etc.)  are  expressed  by  the  same  word  datta 
or  deshita ;  all  the  persons  of  the  probable  present  or 
future  ("  I  probably  am  or  probably  shall  be,"  "  thou  prob- 
ably art  or  probably  wilt  be,"  etc.)  by  the  same  word 
dard  or  desko.  The  present  and  past  indicative  can  be 
used  as  adjectives  (see  IT  8i  and  IF  205),  and  even  as  nouns 
(see  IF  45).  Many  of  the  moods  are  different  from  anything 
that  exists  in  Europe.  There  are  negative,  potential,  and 
causative  conjugations  etc.,  etc.  In  fact,  the  whole  verbal 
conception  has  been  worked  out  in  an  alien  manner. 

IF  221.  Most  of  the  Japanese  verbal  forms  occurring  in 
actual  practice  consist  of  four  elements,  viz.,  thg^rOQt^lhe 
stemj^the  inflection  or  **  base^"  and  the  agglutinated  sufBx 


148 


THE  VBRB* 


the  Other  conjugational  forms  are  obtained  by  .agglutinat- 
ing certain  sufiBxes  to  them.  Their  names  are  the  Certain 
Present,  the  Indefinite  Form,  the  Conditional  Base,  and 
the  Negative  Base.*  The  Negative  Base  is  never  used 
as  an  independent  word.  The  Conditional  Base  is,  in  the 
first  conjugation,  identical  with  the  imperative.  In  the 
other  conjugations  it  is  not  used  as  an  independent  word. 
The  bases  are  not  always  formed  in  the  same  manner, 
nor  are  the  suffixes  always  attached  to  them  in  quite  the 
same  manner.  Hence  the  distribution  of  verbs  into  three 
conjugations. 

N.  B.    In    the   Written  Language   there  are  four ;  but  in  the 
Colloquial  the  third  and  fourth  coalesce. 


225.    EXAMPLES    OF    THE    BASES    IN    THE   THREE 
REGULAR   CONJUGATIONS   OF   VERBS. 


(The  stem  is  italicised.) 


Certain 
Present 
Indefinite 
Negative ) 

Base      j 
Condit.    ) 

Base      f 


ist.  Conj. 

^ * V 

toMsU    to  put 

I   uru 


uri 
ura. 


ure 


oku 
oki 
oka. 

oke 


2nd.  Conj. 
to  sleep    to  eat 

«eru  taberu  . 
tabe 
tabe 

nere   tabevQ 


we 
ne 


3rd.  Conj. 
1-     -  ^ 

to  fall    to  see 

ochiTu^  mini 

ochi 

ochi 


mi 


mi 


ochire    mire 


N,  B,  Observe  how  the  letter  r  never  enters  into  the 
formation  of  the  bases  of  verbs  of  the  ist.  conjugation, 
but  always  enters  into  the  formation  of  those  of  the  2nd. 
and  3rd.  conjugations.  Of  course  r  may  appear  in  the  stem 
of  any  verb,  as  it  does  in  that  of  uru,  **  to  sell,'*  ist.  conj. 


♦  For  the  Certain  Present,  see  If  273  and  240 ;  for  the  Indefinite 
Form,  see  ^  278  and  241 ;  for  the  Conditional  Base,  see  IT  252  ;  and 
for  the  Negative  Base,  see  U  256. 

f  The  stem,  indeed  the  root,  is  really  ot^  as  in  the  active  verb  otosu, 
*'  to  drop  "  (ist.  Conj.).  But  the  consonant  t  changes  euphonical ly  to 
ch  before  the  vowel  i  (see  p.  24). 


THEORY  OF  THE   VERB.  I49 

If  226.  Before  proceeding  to  the  more  important  matter  of 
verbal  paradigms,  we  may  just  mention  in  passing  that, 
when  naming  Japanese  verbs,  it  is  usual  to  mention  the 
present  tense  as  in  Greek,  not  the  infinitive  as  in  English, 
Latin,  and  most  other  European  languages.  Thus  uru^ 
"to sell;" yorokohuy  "to be  glad;'*  neru^  "to  sleep;"  koshi- 
raerUy  "  to  prepare  ;  "  ochiru,  "  to  fall ;  "  kirUf  "  to  wear." 
But  uru  has  not  the  infinitive  signification  of  **  to  sell ;  "  at 
least  it  has  not  generally  or  properly  that  signification. 
It  means  **  I  {or  you,  they,  etc.)  sell."  Simil^irly  in  the 
case  of  all  other  verbs.  The  Japanese  language  has  no 
form  exactly  answering  in  signification  to  our  infinitive. 
The  usual  make-shift  for  an  infinitive  will  be  found  men- 
tioned in  IF  277. 

IF  227.  The  following  paradigms  of  the  three  regular  conju- 
gations and  of  the  three  most  important  irregular  verbs, 
viz.  kuru,  "to  come;"  suru,  "to  do;"  and  masu,  for  which 
English  has  no  equivalent,  will  serve  to  show  how  the 
various  Japanese  moods  and  tenses  are  formed  by  ag- 
glutinating suffixes  to  the  bases.  The  memory  will 
be  assisted  by  noticing  that  almost  all  the  tenses  of  the 
Positive  Voice  are  obtained  from  the  Indefinite  Form 
and  the  Conditional  Base,  while  those  of  the  Negative 
Voice  are  obtained  from  the  Negative  Base  and  the  Cer- 
tain Present.  Note  further  that  the  only  difference  be- 
tween the  second  and  third  conjugations  is  the  vowel  e 
which  characterises  the  former,  and  the  vowel  i  which 
characterises  the  latter.  This  fact  has  caused  some 
European  grammarians  to  class  them  together  as  a  single 
conjugation  (the  second).  They  are  thus  classed  in  Mr. 
Aston's  Grammar,  and  in  Messrs.  Satow  and  Ishibashi's 
excellent  "Dictionary  of  the  Spoken  Language." 


ISO 


THE  VBRB. 


•a 

J3 


2      ^ 


O 

o 

H 

CO 


o 

o 
> 

> 


CO 

O 


00 


s 


c 


-Si 


bo 

c 


g. 


3 

P4 


^1 

o  Z 


.S    .  S  •§  ^  f 

«£3  HH     »-l     ^     TS 


•advsn  luapoui  ui 
sasns)  dsaq)  ni  paddojp 
SI  uisjs  9qj  }6  n  aqx 


^    ^    »«e    .^    .S    .^    •;*    •;*    w    •;5 


s 


<  a.  c 

1  o3 


ctf 

6 


o 


.^    2  .> 


Q   <J    Oh 


CO 

3   6 


U    Oh 


en    f^    Q. 

-»     C     ^ 
^   .2    55 


•T3     o 

c    c 
o    o 


ULi 


o 

u 


•§ 


^  ^  -^ 

^  ^  v> 

•^  "S  -I 

o  o  o 


•43  oj   n3  o 

;3  &«  c  c 

5  S    o  o 

g  S  O  O 


bo  ^^ 

V     P4 


FIRST   CONJUGATION. 


151 


pa 
o 

o  -> 

^  i 

O  K 


/ 


I 


I 

6 


o  ^  S  S  S 

*;      "S!  «  a!  Qu  ^ 


„  _      ^  a.  04  ^ 

w   rt  CU  5  "rt  73   « 
«  d,  „  2  c  c  .> 

.S  3  .2  o^^  ^  8  § 
■MocSooow 

O 


o 

c 


S    C    3 
O    3   "t; 

c  cug 

^r2  o  o 

l-s  .§-§ 

^  ^  'n  ^ 


,  -a  o  «  o 


H 


bo 

C 

.   &• 

o  o  o 

c  a,g 

•^^   3   O  -ti 

r>    P«  j-»    O 

-.  .ts  it;  "5  c 


10  . 


«M  H«  S.»  V> 

Q  «  CS  Q 

•<e  •«{  •AS  »«e 

«  e  e 


^  5 
^  Q   ^  >»  >a 

•AC   .«£    ^    »«£   ^ 

«  «  «  «  « 


000      o      00000 


a 
s 

o  fo 

.S  -rt  _g  2. 

S  5  s  2 

15  O  0^  (x< 
O 


ti     tJ       *»      "S 


O    O    en  ^ 

-  1  8  e    . 


0) 

o.  c   c    „   „  , 

.g  O    O    O    0) 

S  0000 


S.2 


li 


So. 

■si 

rt  - 
6   3 


c4 

I 

I 


^iS 

s 

"S?^ 

0 

b    09 

b 

JC 

'S  g 

.3 

09  ■«-• 

JC 

|„ 

•? 

c  > 

-•§ 

g 

•0  3 

c  c 

jy 

3-U 

u 

0  c 

0.0 

6  ^ 

+- 

ba 

§^ 

.9J5 

S-- 

SU3 

)^ 

V 

^S 

(S 

s-2 

.s 

•^o 

0 

^= 

!i) 

fc»     ^ 

^  Js 

2 

^ 

C4    C 

OJ 

III 

c 

1 

«^it 

* 

&:g« 

11 

IS2 


THE   VERB. 


^  o 


*0    09 


S  2. 
««  o 
to 


*   c 


8  .5  ^ 


^  0) 
0)   o 

"O    03 


I  -s  J  |a 


3   'O 


g  S    c       c 

0)   ^  o    **        •* 

9    ^  ►-•  .S  e  .5  c 

'd    Xi  gf  43  o    .fi   V 

««  Wi  J3    o  9    go 


Is  ^        <,A      H*      *M      ^S      *te      '*^        V 


0^ 

CI 


Ol 


i)    0) 

2  "<J 


O  4> 

w.   .si 


B 

pa 

O 


2    w(  ^ 

^  I  f^  (21  ? 

C    pQ    'B     «B     «     c« 


Is   fe 


•S  ^  *i 


«   - 

§•2 

c    o 
o  o 

o 


THIRD   CONJUGATION 


THE   VERB 


IRREGULAR  CONJUGATIONS. 


^55 


o 

Q 


CO 

> 
< 

o 

X 


CO 


3 

I 


09  'tJ 


u 

I— I 

o 
> 

> 

O 
2 


5 


II 


:S« 


^ 


2 


w 
u 

o 
> 

> 


CO 

O 


§ 


o 


^    «2 
o  jc 


-^  3  w)  r»  •§  ^  -f= 


'  T3     G. 


-.   S   6 


^    ^  Ch  ^    Q    *^ " 

t-l      11      ^       43        S      l-l   HH 


=3 


'e  IS  § 

»tS  .2  .S 

»«i  »«i  »«i 

«o  «^  «^ 


^  -5  ^  «  I  «  « 
*•»  )•*  j«*  >««  iti  )•*  »^* 
»<»»«•,<»     »5*     ^     »5*     •«» 


c 
2  5 

Is 

u 


o 


o 


>  o    o        a 


Z    > 
< 


0.  f2 


£ 


§  i  6 "  ^  ^ 


Pk   <U 


.>     ™ 


'•pS 


Oi   Oi   U  U  (i4  (I4 


I 

a 


43 
H 


^ 


I    ti 


0}  V 

«  *- 

OS  CL| 

m  ^ 

c  o 

.2  *5 

T3  C 

c  o 

o  o 

u 


156 


THB   VERB. 


q 


^     1 
CO     .§ 


I 


H 

o 


«    .2 

<  a> 
^  t 

.s 

eg 


w 


gp-so 


t-.    2  5  " 


g  S  c 


S  c  2  S 

CO  **         o 

CO  o  ci.J5 


3   ^   »   3   St3   S-d   E.5   ^t) 
O        O   O   O         '^        '^ 


5  S 


-^ 
«. 


2i  «  S 


^         ^         ^   ci    .     .  . 

S-i-S'2  Ss  S« 


s'^s 


^  Q  «  a  <» 


5f 


II 


^%   T-r.      Ill     ' 


•S    ^  °  C  3      c       2 


8.  ^S^S 

a  J5    u 


§6:1 " 

(z<       (J 


(It 


T3      O 

G      Cr 


o 


CO 


4^ 

1.1 

**  s 

CO 

P  P 
o  o 


&> 


*  5  ** 


•8 


bD       -S  §0 


•O  P 

•s     ^ 


6  ^ 


O-'"      P       •       — 

p  o  - 


E       o 


>>  >^ 


42    -^  5     5    ^       ^ 


CO 

ft.   3 


bfi  c 


a;  Oi 


O     oj 

rt      §      §    CO 

w  o  u 


•a  o 

.S  -2  ^ 

Si! 

«>    o 

8  §.§ 

«  «  S 
8  8^ 


P4    U 

rt    ^  O  o 


SPECIMEN   VERBS   FOR   PRACTICE. 


157 


IT  234.  It  will  be  found  good  practice  to  conjugate  accord- 
ing to  the  paradigms  of  the  three  regular  conjugations  a 
few  of  the  verbs  in  commonest  use.     Such  are : 

'  to  be  in    \ 
trouble." 
**  to  take  out."  nomUy      "  to  drink." 

omou,      **to  think." 

yobu,       "  to  call."    )  ""«  § 


**  to  beat."         kotnaru 


("to  make 
I     haste." 

"  to  hear." 


M    t: 


1  O 


"  to  go  out."     makerUy   "  to  be  beaten." 

(in  war,  etc.) 

koshiraeru,*  **  to  prepare."  neru. 


kiitahirerUy 
abiru, 
dekiru, 
,kariru, 


"to  get  tired." 5u^^r«, 

"  to  bathe."  kirn, 
"  to  be  able."  niruy 
**  to  borrow."    tariru, 


"  to  sleep.' 

"to  throw  away." 

"  to  wear." 

"  to  boil." 

"to  be  enough." 


IT  235.  As  may  be  seen  by  the  paradigms,  the  Japanese 
verbal  forms  are  not  numerous  in  comparison  with  those 
of  French,  Latin,  and  most  other  European  tongues. 
But  a  peculiar  difficulty  is  caused  by  the  fact  that  all 
verbs  of  the  first  conjugation  are  more  or  less  anomalous. 
In  the  Classical  language  each  suffix  was  simply  aggluti- 
nated to  one  of  the  bases,  without  any  letter-changes 
occurring,  e.g.,  gerund  oki-te^  "having  put;"  ari-tey 
"  having  been  ;  "  tsugi-te,  "  having  joined."  But  in 
modern  usage  phonetic  decay  has  obliterated  this  pristine 
simplicity,  and  has  given  us  oite,  atte,  tsuide, — forms  in 
which  the  stem  loses  its  final  consonant,  and  other  letter- 
changes  take  place.  The  nature  of  the  irregularity  thus 
caused  depends  in  every  case  upon   the  last  letter  of  the 

*  Vulgarly  contracted  to  kosaeru. 


158 


THE   VERB. 


Stem.  The  student  will  more  easily  master  this  difficulty 
by  committing  to  memory  the  following  examples,  than 
by  being  given  a  set  of  abstract  rules  : — 


(x)      'Js^S^     SaRS'SS     •-is      -Sii  *^S     '**r2 

3    -S.?!!   llS.§,^l   4l   11  ll   ^1 

gg-iligigll 'lilies  ill! 

O^  •-  ^    i  ?     §    §    «    «    .^  'I     .tj  •  3     ^   :§  "^    S     :t;   "S 

►siliS!*     ^sqS      Ss      «r      «S15  qC      a2 

^.^oK     Ss^g,.§42     .§42      «.2  ao     .58 


5s  I 


^^-liiillfi  iill  si  ii  If 
Is  I  .  I  -s  lit  I"  '&  >  ^*  s  -2  -2  1  i  1 1 


^         'JSMOA  'tU  JO  'i?  Ul        'Y  ui        u  m        'S  Ul        V  Ul 

CI    B  ui  2uipu3  q  UI  2uipu3  Suipua  Suipiia  Suipiia  Suipiis  Suipiia 
W^        sui3;s  suia^s        suia^g  suia^g  suiajg  suia^s  suis^s 


PECULIARITIES   OF   THE   FIRST    CONJUGATION.  I59 

ir  237.  It  will  be  observed  that  most  of  the  above  letter- 
changes  have  ease  of  pronunciation  for  their  sole  efficient 
cause.  Some,  however,  may  appear  strange;  for  in- 
stance, that  affecting  the  stems  in  g,  where  d  and  j  re- 
place t  and  ch  in  the  terminations.  The  reason  of  this  is 
that,  when  the  nigori'cd  letter  g^'  dropped  out,  there  re- 
mained a  feeling  that  the  nigori  should  be  marked  in 
some  other  way.  It  was  therefore  carried  on  to  the  next 
syllable,  converting  plain  t  and  ch  into  nigorVed  d  and  j. 
Had  this  not  been  done,  many  forms  of  such  pairs  of 
verbs  as  tsugu  and  tsiiku  would  have  become  indis- 
tinguishable,— a  disaster  which  has  actually  overtaken 
verbs  with  stems  ending  in  h  and  w,  and  also  those  end- 
ing in  a  vowel,  in  r,  and  in  t.  Thus  it  is  only  by  the 
context  that  we  can  tell  "whtXhtv  yonde  is  to  be  understood 
as  the  gerund  oiyohUy  **  to  call,"  or  of  yomu^  **  to  read  ;" 
whether  nutte  is  the  gerund  of  mwm,  **  to  sew,"  or  of  nuru^ 
**  to  lacquer ;"  whether  utte  is  the  gerund  oiuru,  **  to  sell," 
or  of  utsUj  **  to  strike. 

IT  238.  TJie  Kyoto  people,  together  with  the  people  of 
Central  and  Western  Japan  generally,  say 

shhnote,  shimota^  etc.  for  shimatte,  shimatta,  etc. 

iute,  iuta,  ,,      „    itte,  itta,  „ 

omote,  omota^  „      „     omotte^      omotta^  ,, 

nute^  nuta,  „      „     nutte,        nuttay  „ 

and  the  educated  in  TokyO  sometimes  follow  their  ex- 
ample, especially  when  speaking  in  public.  But  this 
sounds  somewhat  pedantic.  The  habit  has  arisen  from 
the  fact  that,  in  former  days,  when  the  Court  resided  at 
Kydto,  the  dialect  of  that  place  was  naturally  esteemed 
*  See  p.  20 — 21. 


l6o  THE   VERB. 

above  the  vernacular  of  Eastern  Japan.  A  similar  case 
is  offered  by  the  verbs  kariru,  "  to  borrow;"  tariru,  "  to 
suffice,"  and  one  or  two  others,  which  the  genuine  usage 
of  T6ky6  inflects  according  to  the  third  conjugation,  but 
which  the  educated  sometimes  make  of  the  first  conjuga- 
tion {karu,  taru,  etc.),  in  imitation  of  the  Kyoto  dialect 
and  of  old  Classical  rules. 

IF  239.  In  the  case  of  stems  ending  in  5,  the  change  of  5  into 
sh  in  the  indefinite  form  is  caused  by  the  inability  of  the 
modern  Japanese  to  sound  an  5  before  the  vowel  «.  Ori- 
ginally 7iashi  was  probably  nasi. 

The  changes  in  the  t  series  have  their  origin  in  a  simi- 
lar modern  inability  to  pronounce  that  consonant  before 
the  vowels  i  and  u.  It  is  probable  that,  some  centuries 
ago,  people  consistently  said 

PRESENT.  INDEF.  FORM.  CONDIT.  BASE.  NEG.  BASE. 

matii^         niatif  mate,  mata,      "to  wait;" 

and  the  conditional  and  negative  bases  still  retain  the 
pronunciation  which  theoretical  unity  postulates,  while 
the  other  two  bases,  matu  and  mati,  have  slid  respective- 
ly into  matsu  and  machi.  All  that  we  know  for  certain  on 
this  point  is  that  the  modern  pronunciation  was  already 
established  at  the  close  of  the  sixteenth  century,  from 
which  time  the  first  Jesuit  works  on  the  language  date. 
The  insertion  of  a  w  in  the  negative  base  of  verbs  ending 
in  vowel  stems  (shimav/a^  twa,  otnovfa,  nuwa)  has  its  ori- 
gin in  a  curious  phonetic  change  which  took  place  many 
centuries  ago.  Originally  the  stem  of  all  such  verbs 
ended  in  an  /,  thus  : 

PRESENT.     INDEF.  FORM.      COIfrDIT.  BASE.     NEG.  BASE. 

shirnaiu  shimaii  -    shimaie  shimaia. 


FORMATION  OF  THE  MOODS  AND  TENSES.      l6l 

But  according  to  a  rule  which  permeates  the  whole 
vocabulary  of  the  modern  language,  the/ has  been  drop- 
ped before  u,  i,  and  e,  and  has  been  converted  into  a  w 
before  a,  thus  giving  shimau,  shimai,  shimae,  shimawa. 

ANALYSIS   OF   THE   FORMATION    OF   THE    VARIOUS    MOODS 
AND    TENSES    IN    THE    REGULAR   VERBS. 

IT  240.  Certain  Present  or  Future  (the  ist.  base) :  to  the  stem 

add  u  for  the  ist.  conjugation,  eru  for  the  2nd.,  and  iru 
for  the  3rd.     The  origin  of  these  terminations  is  unknown. 

N.  B.    In  the  Written  Language,  both  eru  and  iru  are  replaced 
by  urUf  a  peculiarity  to  be  heard  also  from  the  lips  of  some  speakers. 

If  241.  indefinite  Form  (the  2nd.  base) :  to  the  stem  add  i  for 
the  ist.  and  3rd.  conjugations,  and  e  for  the  2nd.  The 
origin  of  these  terminations  is  unknown. 

IT  242.  Desiderative  Adjective ;  to  the  indefinite  form  add  tai. 
Tai  is  an  adjective  originally  identical  with  itaij  "pain- 
ful," and  is  capable  of  conjugation  like  other  adjectives, 
according  to  the  paradigms  given  on  pp.  123  and  125, 
thus  :  okitakUf  okito  gozaimasu,  okitakereba,  okitaku 
nai,  etc. 

IF  243.  Adjective  of  Probability ;  to  the  indefinite  form  add 
so  na  (see  p.  133). 

IT  244.  Polite  Certain  Present  or  Future:  to  the  indefinite 

form  add  masu,  which  can  itself  be  conjugated  through 
most  of  the  moods  and  tenses,  thus  :  okimashUa,  okima- 
shOf  etc.  (see  p.  156). 

IT  245.  Gerund  (by  some  called  the  Past  Participle):  to  the 
indefinite  form  add  te,  observing  the  rules  of  phonetic 
change  in  the  ist.  conjugation  (see  p.  158).     Te  is  sup- 


Z62  THE  VERB. 

pQsed  by  the  native  grammarians  to  be  a  fragment  of  the 
.verb  haterUy  "  to  finish.**  If  this  view  is  correct,  oitCy  for 
instance,  literally  means  '<  having  finished  putting,"  or 
**  finishing  putting."  The  next  six  tenses  in  the  para- 
digm are  all  obtained  by  agglutinating  other  suffixes  to 
the  te  of  this  one. 

11246.  Gerund  Emphasised :  to  the  indefinite  form  add  c/^a, 
observing  the  rules  of  phonetic  change  in  the  ist.  conju- 
gation (see  p.  158).  Cha  is  a  corruption  oite  wa^  which 
latter  original  form  is  still  mostly  preferred  by  cultured 
speakers.  Wa  is  the  postposition  treated  of  in  pp.  83 
et  seq, 

^  247.  Certain  Past:  to  the  indefinite  form  add  ta,  observing 
the  rules  of  phonetic  change  in  the  ist.  conjugation  (see 
p.  158).     Ta  is  a  corruption  of  the  Classical  past  tariy  it- 

,  self  derived  from  ^^  an  {ari  is  the  Classical  "conclusive 
present"  of  art*,  "to  be.")  Oita  therefore  etymologically 
means  **  am  having  finished  putting." 

IT  248.  Probable  Past  \  to  the  indefinite  form  add  tard,  ob- 
serving the  rules  of  phonetic  change  in  the  ist.  conjuga- 
tion (see  p.  158).  Taro  stands  for  ^e  aro,  lit.  "probably 
shall  be  having  finished." 

II  249.  Conditional  Past!  to  the  indefinite  form  add  taraha  or 
tara,  observing  the  rules  of  phonetic  change  in  the  ist. 
conjugation  (see  p.  158).  Taraba  stands  for  te  araba,  lit. 
"  if  am  having  finished,"  araba  being  a  Classical  form, 
the  so-called  "hypothetical  mood"  ofaru,  "to  be  "  (see 
IT  287,  p.  179). 

^  250.  Concessive  Past :  to  the  indefinite  form  add  taredomo 
or  taredo,  observing  the  rules  of  phonetic  change  in  the 
1st.  conjugation  (see  p.  158).    Taredomo  stands  for  te  are- 


FORMATION  OF  tHE  MOODS  AND  TENSES.      163 

domOy  lit.  **  though  am  having  finished.**  Aredomo,  the 
concessive  present  of  ar«,  "to  be,"  is  itself  compounded  of 
the  conditional  base  are  and  the  postpositions  to  and  mo. 

%  251.  Frequentative  Form:  to  the  indefinite  form  add  tari, 
observing  the  rules  of  phonetic  change  in  the  ist.  conju- 
gation (see  p.  158).  Tari  would  seem  to  stand  for  fe  art, 
in  which  case  its  original  meaning  is  the  same  as  that  of 
the  past  indicative  tense. 

IT  252.  Conditional  Base  (the  3rd.  base) :  to  the  stem  add  e 
for  the  I  St.  conjugation,  ere  for  the  2nd.,  and  ire  for  the 
3rd.  The  origin  of  these  terminations  is  unknown.  The 
name  of  "  conditional  base  **  was  given  to  this  form  by 
Mr.  Aston  from  one  of  its  functions,  that  of  serving  as 
the  basis  on  which  the  present  conditional  tense  is  built 

.    up.     From  it  is  also  formed  the  concessive  present. 

^'^253.  imperative:  in  the  ist.  conjugation  it  is  identical 
with  the  conditional  base;  in  the  2nd.  and  3rd.  conjuga- 
tions it  is  formed  by  adding  to  the  indefinite  form  the 
syllable  ro,  which  seems  to  be  a  corruption  ofyo,  an  ex- 
clamation resembling  our  word  "  oh !  '* 

N,  B.  A  familiar  imperative,  often  used  by  members  of  the  same 
household  in  addressing  each  other,  is  obtained  by  adding  na  to  the 
indefinite  form,  as  _)'o6t-Ma/ "call  1"  sAj-na/ **  do  I"  It  is  uncertain 
whether  this  na  is  simply  an  interjection,  or  a  corruption  of  the  word 
nasaif  ••  please."    The  former  view  is,  however,  the  more  probable. 

ir.254.Xonclitionai  Present:  to  the  conditional  base  add  ba, 
which  is  an  irregularly  nigorVed  form  of  the  postposi- 
tion wa, 

if  255.  Concessive   Present:    to   the    conditional   base   add 
-    domo  or  do.    Do  is  the  nigori'td  form  of  the  postposition 
to,  and  mo  is  also  one  of  the  postpositions. 


r64  THE   VERB. 

1i  256.  Negative  Base  (the  4th.  base):  in  the  ist.  conjugation 
add  a  to  the  stem ;  in  the  2nd.  and  3rd.  conjugations  the 
negative  base  is  identical  with  the  indefinite  form.  The 
name  of  **  negative  base  "  was  given  to  this  form  by  Mr. 
Aston  with  reference  to  one  of  its  functions,  that  of 
serving  as  the  basis  on  which  most  of  the  tenses  of  the 
negative  voice  are  built  up.  Note,  however,  that  it  like- 
wise helps  to  form  the  probable  present  or  future  of  the 
positive  voice,  together  with  all  passives,  potentials  and 
causatives.  The  name  is,  therefore,  not  a  completely 
adequate  one.  There  is,  however,  no  harm  in  retaining 
it  in  the  absence  of  a  better,  provided  the  nature  of  the 
form  itself  is  always  borne  in  mind, 

IF  257.  Probable  Presenter  Futures  in  the  ist.  conjugation 

add  u  to  the  negative  base,  and  then  contract  the  diph- 
thong au  thus  obtained  into  o.  The  termination  u  is  d 
corruption  of  the  unexplained  Classical  m.  The  steps  of 
the  process  therefore  are  okan  (the  Classical  Probable 
Present  or  Future  of  oku)y  okaUy  oko.  In  the  2nd.  and 
3rd.  conjugations  the  Classical  language  also  simply 
adds  «,  thus ;  tahen^  **  I  shall  probably  eat ; "  ochin, 
**  I  shall  probably  fall."  (not  to  be  confounded  with  the 
negative  presents  tahenu  and  ochinu).  Some  of  the  Col- 
loquial dialects  of  the  Western  provinces  vocalise  this  n 
into  u  exactly  as  in  the  ist.  conjugation,  and  say  taheUy 
ochiu.  The  Tokyo  forms  in  jo,  as  tabeyo,  ochiyo,  are 
built  on  a  false  analogy  suggested  by  the  6  sound  of  the 
future  in  the  ist.  conjugation. 
II  258.  Negative  Imperative  S  to  the  present  indicative  add 
na,  which  is  probably  a  fragment  of  nakarCy  the  Classical 
imperative  of  the  "  negative  adjective  « a f."  {Nakare^= 
naku^  are^f  be*  not*.) 


FORMATION   OF   THE  MOCM)S   AND   TENSES.  165 

^  259,  Negative  Probable  Present  or  Futures  in  the  ist.  con- 
jugation add  mai  to  the  present  indicative,  in  the  2nd. 
and  3rd.  conjugations  add  it  to  the  negative  base.  Mai 
is  a  corruption  of  maji,  majiki,  majiku,  a  Classical  adjec- 
tive expressing  doubt  or  prohibition.  In  the  Colloquial  it 
has  ceased  to  be  conjugated. 

11  260.  N^ative  Certain  Present  or  Future  i  to  the  negative- 
base  add  n,  which  here  and  throughout  the  negative 
tenses  is  probably  a  corruption  of  the  Classical  negative 
particle  ani,  which  exists  likewise  in  Korean.  The  n 
should  properly  be  followed  by  short  «,  but  this  letter  is 
now  generally  omitted  in  pronunciation. 

IT  261.  Negative  Certain  Past;  to  the  negative  base  add  nan- 
da,  a  termination  of  unknown  origin. 

H  262.  Negative  Probable  Pasts  to  the  negative  base  add 
nandarOy  formed  from  the  negative  certain  past  on  the 
model  of  .the  same  tense  of  the  positive  voice. 

IT  263.  Negative  Frequentative  Form  s  to  the  negative  base 

add  nandari,  formed  from  the  negative  certain  past  on  the 
model  of  the  same  tense  of  the  positive  voice. 

IT  264.  Negative  Conditional  Presents  to  the  negative  base 

add  neba.  Ne  is  really  a  sort  of  negative  conditional  base 
formed  on  the  analogy  of  the  conditional  base  of  the  posi- 
tive voice,  and  ba  is  the  postposition  wa  with  the  nigori. 

IT  265.  Negative  Concessive  Present  s  to  the  negative  base 

add  nedomo  or  nedo.  For  ne  see  the  preceding  paragraph. 
Do  (for  to)  and  mo  are  postpositions. 
IT  266.  Negative  Gerund  S  to  the  negative  base  add  zu,  a  ter- 
mination of  doubtful  origin.  The  postposition  ni  is  often 
added  to  this  form  without  affecting  its  signification,  as 
tabezu  ni  for  tabezu^  "  not  eating,"  "  without  eating." 


1 66  THE  VERB. 

H  267.  Second  Form  of  the  Negative  Voice ;  to  the  negative 

base  add  the  "negative  adjective  nai,''  (see  p.  126)  in 
one  or  other  of  its  conjugational  forms. 

N'  B.  In  order  to  avoid  tedious  repetition,  we  leave  the  student 
to  analyse  for  himself  on  the  above  model  the  conjugation  of  adjec- 
tives given  on  p.  125.  A  curious  little  item  for  him  to  notice  is  the 
occasional  substitution  of  the  Chinese  negative  prefix  fu  or  bu  for  the 
negative  Japanese  negative  suffixes.  The  use  of  this  idiom  implies, 
not  simple  negation,  but  the  additional  idea  of  badness,  dereliction  of 
duty,  etc.  Thvis,  fu-deki,  "  badly  made 't"  fuiki-todoki^  "  negligent ; " 
bu-ashirai,  "  discourteous." 

IRREGULAR   VERBS. 

If  268.  Japanese  has  but  few  irregular  verbs,  and  the  irregu- 
larities even  of  these  few  are  but  slight.  We  have  already 
given  paradigms  of  the  three  chief  ones,  viz.  kuru,  **  to 
come"  (p.  154);  suru,  "to  do"  (p.  155);  and  masM  (p. 
156),  which  formerly  meant  "to  be,"  but  which  is  now 
used  only  as  a  termination  which  may  be  added  to  the 
indefinite  form  of  any  verb.  There  is  thus  obtained  a 
secondary  conjugation,  which  is  more  polite  than  the 
ordinary  conjugation  and  which  is  therefore  in  particular- 
ly frequent  use.  The  plain  verb  without  masii  is  apt  to 
sound  curt,  especially  at  the  end  of  a  sentence.  Instead 
of  giving  masii  alone,  the  paradigm  shows  it  attached  to 
the  verb  nasarUj  "  to  deign  to  do  "  (for  nasaru  see  also 
below,  ir  270  and  H  402). 

51  269.  The  other  slightly  irregular  verbs  are  as  follows : — 
ArUf  "to  be,"  when  combined  with  the  postposition  de, 
loses  its  final  syllable,  making  da  instead  of  daru.  Its 
negative  voice  is  not  used,  being  replaced  by  the  "  nega- 
tive adjective"  nai.  The  improbable  present  or  future 
artitnai  alone  remains,  used  concurrently  with  nakaro. 


IRREGULAR  VERBS.  167 

IT  27a.  Gozaru,  "to  be,"  generally  drops  the  r  of  its  last 
syllable  when  masu  is  suffixed ;  thus  gozaimasu  instead  of 
gozarimasu  (but  see  end  of  If  388).  The  same  is  the  case 
with  the.  polite  verbs  irassharUy  "to  go,"  "to  come;**  ku- 
dasaru,  "  to  condescend  ;"  nasaru,  "  to  deign  to  do ;"  and 
ossharu,  "to  deign  to  say.**  These  latter  verbs  also  use 
the  fornis  thus  obtained,  viz.  irasshaiy  kudasai,  and  nasai, 
as  imperatives,  in  lieu  of  the  older  iraserare^  kudasare, 
and  nasare,  Osshai  alone  is  rare,  osshaimasht  being  pre- 
ferred. Another  peculiarity  of  these  four  verbs  is  that, 
though  now  conjugated  according  to  the  ist  conj.,  they  are 
corruptions  of  verbs  originally  belonging  to  the  2nd,  viz. 
iraserarerUy  kudasareru,  nasareru  and  oserareru,  properly 
potential  forms  which  early  assumed  an  honorific  meaning 
(conf.  IT  403).  Kureru  "  to  give,**  2nd  conj.,  follows  their 
example,  having  the  imperative  kurei  for  kurero.  More- 
over irassharUj  kudasaru  and  nasaru  may  drop  the  letter 
a  of  the  termination  aru  in  the  gerund  and  in  the  six 
following  tenses,  thus  :  irasshite  for  irasshatte,  kudasttaro 
for  kudasattarOy  nasttara  {or  nasattara.  In  familiar  con- 
versation gozaimasu  is  often  shorn  of  all  its  middle  letters, 
and  pronounced  ^oj?a5tt,  gas^u  or  gesii.     Similarly  ^ojsaf- 

•  mashita  becomes  gashita,  etc.  When  the  particle  de 
precedes  it,  gozaimasu  is  apt  to  lose  its  initial  letter  as 
well,  de  gozaimasu  becoming  desu,  de  gozaimashlta  be- 
coming deshita,  etc. 

ir  271.     Iku,  "tcf  go,*'  instead  of  the  gerund  iite,  the  em- 
phasised gerund  iickay  etc.,  which  would  be  required  by 
the  rule  for  verbs  of  the  first  conjugation  with  stem  ending 
in  k  (see  p.  158),  has  the  following  irregular  forms  : 
Gerund  ittef  ^'  having  gone,  going.** 

Emphatic  Gerund  itcha,  "  having  gone,  going.** 


l68  THE   VERB. 

Certain  Past  itta,  ''  I  went." 

Probable  Past        ittard,  **  I  probably  went." 

Condit.  Past  ittdra{ha),      **  If  I  had  gone." 

Concess.  Past         ittaredo{mo),  **  though  I  went." 
Frequent.  Form     ittari^  "sometimes  going." 

These  irregular  forms  of  iku  coincide  with  the  regular 
forms  of  the  same  tenses  of  the  verb  tw,  **  to  say."  Other- 
wise the  verb  iku  is  conjugated  regularly. 
11272.  ShinurUy  "to  die,"  is  conjugated  regularly  through 
most  of  the  moods  and  tenses,  as  if  it  were  shinu  (stem 
shin)f  and  belonged  to  the  first  conjugation.  But  the  ad- 
dition of  the  syllable  ru  makes  its  certain  present  shinuru^ 
and  also  the  negative  imperative  shinuni-na^  irregular. 
It  has,  moreover,  inherited  from  the  Classical  Language  a 
conditional  base  shinure,  which  occasionally  replaces  the 
regular  shine.  Altogether  it  is  a  sort  of  hybrid  between 
the  first  conjugation  and  the  third. 

REMARKS  ON  THE  USE  OF  THE  MOODS  AND  TENSES. 

IT  273.  Present^  Future,  and  Past. — The  Japanese  verb  does 
not,  like  ours,  clearly  distinguish  present  from  future  time. 
It  has  one  form  serving  to  denote  any  certain  action  or 
state,  whether  present,  future,  or  habitual,  and  another 
serving  to  denote  any  merely  probable  action  or  state, 
whether  present  or  future.  It  is  the  question  of  certainty 
or  uncertainty  that  forms  the  criterion,  not  the  question 
of  time.  Still,  as  future  actions  and  events,  are,  in  the 
nature  of  things,  more  often  uncertain  than  present 
actions  and  events,  the  form  denoting  certainty  is  applied 
in  a  majority  of  cases  to  present  time,  while  the  form 
denoting  mere  probability  is  applied  in  a  majority  of  cases 
to  future  time.     It  is  this  which  has  led  most  writers  on 


PRESENT   AND   FUTURE   TENSES.  169 

Japanese  grammar  to  term  the  former  the  present  tense, 
and  the  latter  the  future  tense.  But  such  a  terminology 
is  really  incorrect,  and  it  has  been  the  cause  of  much 
mutual  misunderstanding  between  Europeans  and  natives. 

Bara   wa,      ii    hana  da,      |     "Theroseisabeau- 

Jtt0Be  aB'feri  g—^  n^Hter  U.         jtiful  flower." 

Doko  ni  sunde    irassharu  ?    (     "  Where  are  you  liv- 

tV^ere  4u  aaveUiua  deigu^i^^e  f  (ing  ?  " 

Kimasu  ha  ?  (certainty)  "  Will  he  come  ?  " 


Kimasho  ka  ?    (mere  probability) 


"Is  he  likely  to 
come  ?  "  "  Do  you 
^think  he  will  come  ?  '* 


v-'a;  h:^^.>     .       .     .  f     "  He  will  come  im- 

^tktktmasn.    (certainty)  jmediately." 


Kimasho. 
Kimasu 


>.  ),  L  ^.,.   A     "He  will  probably 

desho.  1  ("^'^  Probability)! ^^^^  „ 

Kimasnmai.       (-^^ ^  1  will  co^'  ^'^"'  '^ 


Yuki  ga   furimasu, 
Sume  {nom.)     fallt. 


"It  snows;"  "it  is 
snowing." 

"  It  will  certainly 
snow." 


Yukigafurimasho.  \     "  ^* ,  ^'"     P"'''^"^ 

*    -^  (snow. 

Myonichi  shuttatsu  shimasu,    f      "I  (shall)  start  to- 

Tcmorromf        aiari  Oo.  jmorrow." 

Myonichi  shuttatsu  shimash6.\,  "  I  think  of  starting 
-^  (to-morrow. 

/      a  yVs  I   hfl-VC 
Kaze       wo  hiita  kara,    L^ught  cold,  I 

yu  wo  yoshimasho.  ]f''J'^   ^   ^,°"^ 

M0i^aier  {accus.)  (/)  mfUi^rohtAiy^f^r^ear.    ^^^^      f,      "^^" 

Vto-day. 


Isolde  iko, 

(More  politely  ikimashd,) 


170  THE  VERB. 

In  this  last  case  there  is  little  difference  in  English 
between  "  I  think  I  won't,"  and  plain  <*  I  won't."  The 
former  is  less  abrupt ;  that  is  all.  Similarly  in  Japanese, 
■  where  consequently  the  merely  probable  present  or  future 
tense  sometimes  comes  in  a  roundabout  way  to  corres- 
pond exactly  to  our  real  future.     Thus  : 

"  I  will  go  quickly,*' 
or  "  I  will  make  haste 
,and  go." 

But  it  would  do  equally  well  to  use  the  present,  and  to 
say  Isolde  ikimasu. 

The  essence  of  the  probable  present  or  future  in  Japan- 
ese being  uncertainty  with  a  strong  tinge  of  probability, 
this  tense  is  often  used  to  express  a  guess,  such  as  En- 
glish idiom  generally  conveys  by  means  of  the  word 
**  may  "  or  "  must,"  thus  : 

So  omou  mono    mo     aro 
80  iMimh  pergoHB  mito  tmatf^e 

g^ 

€»iih9ngh . . 


There    may   be  some 
folks  who  think  so,  but..." 


**You  must  find  it  very 
inconvenient." 


Sazo        go  fujiyu 

Mndeed    awguBi  iueouveuienee 

de      gozaimashd, 

iB'proha^ilf* 

N.  B,    Needless  to  say  that  this  idiom  cannot  be  used  to  express 

the  very  different  "must"   denoting  necessity.     The  **mu8t"  of 

necessity  is  rendered  by  a  double  negative,  thus : 

Harawanakereba     naritnasen,       (     "It  won*t  do  not  to  pay,  i.e., 
Mf^uwn^tt         tff0M*t'tio»       I"  You  mns^  pay." 

Englishmen  knowing  a  little  Japanese  are  apt  to  use  this  double 
negative  too  freely,  because  in  English  we  are  in  the  habit  of  scatter- 
ing must^s  broadcast,  even  where  no  real  necessity  is  implied,  as, 
when  rising  to  say  goodbye,  we  say  "  I  am  afraid  I  must  be  going." 
A  Japanese  would  say  Mo  o  iioma  itashimasUj  lit.  "  Already  I  will  do 
honourable  leave." 


THE   CERTAIN   PAST   TENSE.  IJl 

IT  274.  The  difference  between  the  Certain  Past  and  the 
Probable  Past  is  precisely  analogous  to  that  between  the 
Certain  Present  or  Future  and  the  Probable  Present  or 
Future,  and  need  therefore  not  be  dwelt  on  here.  The 
student  will  be  more  perplexed  by  certain  anomalous  uses 
of  the  Certain  Past  itself.  Thus  this  tense  is  sometimes 
used  where  English  idiom  would  prefer  the  present,  for 
instSince :  Arimashiia  (lit.  "has  been"),  "Here  it  is!" 
said  when  one  finds  something  which  had  been  lost ; 
WakarimashHa,  "  I  have  understood,"  i.e,,  "  I  under- 
stand ; "  Gozen  ga  dekimashtta  (lit.  "  Dinner  has  even- 
tuated "),  "Dinner  is  ready;"  Nodo  ga  kawakimashita 
(lit.  "  throat  has  dried  "),  "  My  throat  is  dry,"  i.e.,  "  I  am 
thirsty."  Contrariwise  the  Japanese  often  use  the  present, 
— especially  the  present  of  the  negative, — where  strict 
logic  demands  the  past,  thus : 

Watakushi     wa   Amerika)        ,,„  ., 

jme        aB-ror,  ^meHem        "While     I     was     in 
ni  oru  aida.  America." 

tfM  dtvell  wthUe. 

Narawanai  kara,  dekima'\ 

MiearH'iHft  hecante^     can"      \       *'  I  Can't  do  it,  becaUSe 

sen.  fl  haven't  learnt  how." 

U0i.  ) 

ir  275.  In  such  an  example  as  the  following,  the  Japanese 
may  seem  illogical  in  using  the  past  tense.  But  the 
English  are  equally  illogical  in  using  the  present,  seeing 
that  the  time  referred  to  is  future  : 


Shitaku     no       dekita        \ 

FreparaiioM  *§  haB'^eveninaied 

tokiy    shirashUe  o 

ftfMte*     ifformimg     houourahiy 

kun  nasai,  . 


"  Let  me  know  when 
everything  is  ready." 
(Said  to  an  inferior.) 


172 


THE   VBRB. 


In  the  following  example  (and  many  similar  ones  might 
be  quoted)  the  two  languages  play  still  more  strangely  at 
cross  purposes,  English  using  the  past  where  Japanese 
has  the  future,  and  the  present  infinitive  where  Japanese 
has  the  past : 


Ko       shita        ho     ga 

Vhn$  hmve^doue   bMc  (notn.) 

yokaro. 


"  You  had  probably 
better  do  it  in  this  way," 
or  "  I  think  you  ought 
to  do  it  like  this." 


N,  B.    Observe  the  phrase,  ./la  ga  yoi  equivalent  to  our  "  should," 
**  ought,*'  **  had  better/'  and  compare  the  foot-note  to  p.  140. 

IF  276.  Notwithstanding  the  occasional  appearance  of  such 
cases  as  those  hitherto  exemplified,  the  use  of  the  pre- 
sent and  past  usually  gives  no  trouble,  thus : 

Tsune  ni  iu  kotodesuka?)      "Is  it  a  thing  people 

j  generally  say  ?  " 


Geuermiiif  Baff  thing   4» 

A  no    hito     wa     ki-yo  da] 

TThai  peraon  a$'fort  haudff  4§ 

kara,        nan     de     mo 

beeauBef  UMythiufftvhaiever 

skimasu, 

Uchi  no       shafu        wa, 

WtonBe  *Bj4Hriki$harman  aB'for, 

ashi  wo  itamemashlta 
r—t  (accm,)  hUB'hHrt  {trans,) 
kara,    kawari  no  otoko  wo 

beeau§€9  exchange  *b  tmau  (accus,) 

yonde         mairimashita, 
haviug'called      havccomBe* 


"  He  is  so  handy,  he 
can  do  anything.** 

(Be  careful  to  pronounce 
ki-yo  as  two  syllables.  Kyo^ 
as  one  syllable,  means  "  to- 
day.") 


**  As  the  house  jinrikt- 
sha-man  has  hurt  his 
foot,  I  have  called  an- 
other instead." 


kiki   ni  yatta^ 

hear    to      aent 

mada      henji     ga 

wvhereaa^      atiti       anauter  {nom.) 

gozaimasen. 


Senkoku 

Wo 


"  I  sent  to  enquire  a  lit- 
"tle  while  ago ;  but  there 
is  no  answer  yet." 


THE   INFINITIVE,    THE   INDEFINITE   FORM.  I73 

ir  277.  The  certain  present  and  certain  past,  sometimes  fol- 
lowed by  the  word  koto^  "thing,"  **act,"  "fact,"  to  some 
extent  replace  the  infinitive,  a  mood  for  which  the  Japanese 
language  lacks  a  special  form.  Thus  oku  koto,  "  to  put" 
in  general ;  oita  koto,  "  to  have  put "  in  the  past : — 

Mahushihute,      tniru   koto\ 
Being-dtusxiing,         to^ee     \      "  The  light  is  so'daz- 
ga    •  dekimasen.  \z\ing  that  I  can't  see." 

Mita  koto    ga     nai.  „  j  ^ave  never  seen  it." 

IF  278.  Indefinite  Form,  Gerund,  and  Emphasised  Ger- 
und.— The  indefinite 'form  of  Japanese  verbs  is  a  form  to 
which  there  is  nothing  that  exactly  corresponds  in  our 
Western  tongues.  It  is  by  itself  of  no  tense  and  mood, 
but  may  denote  any  tense  or  mood  according  to  the  con- 
text. The  rule  regarding  its  use  in  the  Written  Language 
is  as  follows : — 

When  several  clauses  are  correlated,  that  is  to  say, 
follow  each  other  and  express  the  same  tense  or  mood, 
then  only  the  verb  or  adjective  of  the  last  of  such  corre- 
lated clauses  takes  the  termination  which  indicates  the 
tense  or  mood  intended  by  the  speaker,  the  verbs  or 
adjectives  of  all  the  foregoing  clauses  being  put  in  the  in- 
definite form.  One  thus  has  to  wait  till  the  end  of  the 
last  clause,  before  one  can  tell  whether  the  speaker  or 
writer  intends  to  refer  to  the  past,  present,  or  future,  to 
the  indicative,  conditional,  imperative,  etc.  The  final 
verb  or  adjective^  so  to  speak,  focuses  and  clinches  all 
that  went  before.  Thus  the  Shinto  theologian  Hirata, 
when  insisting  on  the  inscrutableness  of  the  divine  nature, 
says : 


«74 


THE  VERB, 


Kami    no      mi  ue 

OodB       of   angutt    tnrfaee 

wa,     midari  ni     hakari- 
iu-heki    mono  de  wa  nai. 

BayBhonld  thing  is'Mot* 

Tada   sono        tattoki 

Simjpitf  iheir     renerabieuett 

WO      tattobi,      kashikoki 

(accus.)  to^veneraie^   awfnlneMa 

WO     kasMkomi,     osoru- 

(accus,)     to^erereneet         fear^ 

heki     wo     osorem    hoka 

fhluetM  {accus.)     im^fear    betidet 

nashi. 


'*  The  nature  of  the 
Gods  is  not  a  thing 
which  men  should  rashly 
speculate  and  talk  about« 
There  is  nothing  else  for 
us  to  do  but  to  honour 
their  greatness,  to  rever- 
ence their  majesty,  and 
to  fear  their  power." 


In  this  passage  tattohi  and  kashikomi,  the  indefinite 
forms  of  the  verbs  tattohu  and  kashtkomu,  must  be  render- 
ed by  our  infinitive  mood,  because  they  are  coordinated 
with  osoreru,  which  is  in  the  certain  present  tense,  here 
corresponding  to  what  we  term  the  infinitive.  (Conf.  ^ 
277.)  Note  also  the  use  of  the  bookish  forms  in  ki  (see 
IT  177  and  178)  of  the  attributive  adjectives  tattoki  and 
kashikoki  (for  tattoi  and  kashikoi)^  here,  as  generally  in 
the  higher  style,  employed  in  preference  to  the  abstract 
substantives  in  sa, — such  as  tattosa,  kashikosa, 

IT  279.  In  the  negative  voice,  the  place  of  the  indefinite  form 
is  supplied  by  the  negative  gerund,  thus : 

Sekai  no  kuni-guni  no\      "Among  the  various  coun- 

Waria  *a     eouniriet    of   tries  in  the  world,  there  are 

uchi      ni     way     somoku     gome   where   no    plants    or 

middie    i^  herMree.  ^rees   grow,   and   where  no 

mo   haezu,     jtmbutsu      \ human  beings  live." 

mo      nai      tokoro    ga 


aUo  exUi'Hot   piaeea 

arimasu. 


(nom.) 


(N.  B.  Haezu  is  the  negative 
gerund  of  haeru^  "to  sprout," 
correlated  with  the  present  of  the 
negative  adjective  nai.) 


THE   INDEFINITB   FORM,   THE    GERUND.  IJ$ 

f\  280.  In  the  Book  Language  the  foregoing  rule  concerning 
the  use  of  the  indefinite  form  is  exemplified  at  every  turn. 
It  is  also  followed  pretty  frequently  in  set  speeches,  and 
sometimes  even  in  the  ordinary  conversation  of  careful  and 
cultured-  speakers.  Foreign  students  should,  therefore,  not 
fail  to  make  themselves  acquainted  with  it.  At  the  same 
time,  it  must  be  admitted  that  the  familiar  and  lower 
styles  of  Colloquial  almost  completely  disregard  it.  Some- 
times it  is  replaced,  as  in  European  languages,  by  two  or 
more  clauses  in  the  same  tense.  But  more  frequently  the 
indefinite  form  gives  way  to  the  gerund,  so  that,  for 
instance,  the  last  example  but  one,  if  made  genuinely 
conversational,  would  run  thus  : 

Kami  no     koto        wa,     midari  ni       suiryo         wa 

GodB     of  §mati€r§    affor,        raMhty       tpeculaiion    aB^for^ 

dekimasen,     Tada  sono    tattoi    tokoro     wo    tattonde, 

etmu0i*        Simplif  iheir  oeuerakle  place   (accus,)  meueraUug, 

sono    uya-uyashii    tokoro  wo     nyamatte^  sono  osoreru 

their  mwe^naptHug     place  {accus,)  reweremcHBg^  iheir  temring 

tokoro    wo    osoreru  yori  hoka     wa     nai. 

place  {accus,)  ia^fear  iham  heaidea  aa^for,  iataoi, 

N,  B.  Notice  the  word  tokoro,  **  place,"  used  as  a  sort  of  suffix  to 
the  adjective  tattoi,  "  venerable,"  to  express  the  abstract  quality  of 
**  venerableness." 

ir  281.  Hardly  a  sentence, — especially  a  sentence  of  any 
length, — can  be  uttered  without  the  gerund  being  thus 
used.     Take,  for  instance,  the  following : 

Haya-tsuke-gi  wo 

Qtatck^airikctcood      {accus.) 

motte  koi ! 

haoiaag'earried  comae! 


"  Bring  some  matches  ! " 
(More  lit.  "  Having  carried 
matches,  come ! ") 


Kikashtte         kudasai !         ,,  pj^^^^  ^^„  ^^.. 
CamaiHg'io^ear    eoHdeaecHd ! 


176 


THE   VERB. 


Uchi  ni  itCy     hon  de  mo 

MM^nse  in  beiujrt   h—k§  even 

mite  orimasho. 

Kaeri'gake     ni  kwankoha 
ye      yottBy     sukoshi     kai- 


shite 


kimaA 


(  *<  I  think  I  will  stay  at 
home  and  read."  (More  lit. 
"  Staying  at  home,  I  shall 
probably     be     looking     at 

Ibooks.") 

i  **  On  my  way  home,  I 
looked  in  at  the  bazaar, 
and  made  a  few  purchases." 
(More  lit,  **  Having   look- 


mono 

chases     Umviug'd^He,  (i)h09e- 

shzta. 


ed   in  at  the  bazaar,  and 


having    made    some    pur- 
chases, I  have  come  home 
Vagain.") 


Kind       hiru-gozen      wo  \ 

"Westerdaff  middaffmeai  (accus.) 

tahete,  uchi        wo 

•  haviHg'eateut   k^nse      (accus.) 

demashitCj        sore  kara 

htivimg^goue'cni^      thai   frosts  k.,  .^         ... 

surlid        wo  mite,       IWore  Ut 

serestliug  (accus,)  hawiug^seess, 
han-nichi  usunde  ki- 
haifrnday  haviug^iatfedf 

mashita,  ^ 

have'cossse. 


**  I  went  out  yesterday 
after  luncheon,  was  present 
at  a  wrestling  match,  and 
was  away  half  the  day." 
Haying  eaten 
luncheon,  having  gone 
out,  then  having  looked  at 
wrestling,  having  played 
half  the  day,  I  have  come.") 


H  282.  Sometfmes   the    gerund     expresses   instrumentality 
rather  than  correlation,  thus  : 
Susugi'Sentaku         wo    \ 

MiasscmfssshiHg         (accus.)  I 

shitey         kurashi   '    wo     \      ^^  She    gains    her  liveli- 
dohsg,      livelihood  (accus,)  [  hood  by  washing  clothes." 
tsukete     orimasu, 

oMUissg      .       is.  ' 

H  283.  The  gerund  of  adjectives  occurs  most  frequently  in 
phrases  where  English  idiom  employs  the  word  "so," 
for  instance : 


Kurakute     miemasen. 

JBeissg^dtmrk,    e^uuol^see. 


(      **It  is  so  dark,  I 
I  can't  see." 


THE    GERUND   AND  EMPHASISED    GERUND. 


177 


Itakute 

shiyo 

,^'*. 

Bei^g-paiHfnt, 

tray"<«-^ 

(nom.)^ 

nai. 

isn't. 

'  "  It  is  so  painful 
I  don't  know  what 
to  do,"  or  **  It  is 
awfully  painful." 
(Conf.  p.  144.) 

Occasionally  the  gerund  of  verbs  is  employed  in  the 
same  manner,  to  help  to  express  the  meaning  conveyed 
by  our  word  "  so,"  thus : 

hiete       \      u  ^y  feet  ^^e  so 


Ashi  ga 

Weei  (nom 

tamaranai. 
[I)canuot»eud§§re» 


heiug^oi^ 


cold,  I  don't  know 
what  to  do." 


1[  284.  The  Emphasised  "Gerunds  oicha,  tabecha,  ochicha, 
shichtty  are  somewhat  vulgar,  or  at  least  familiar,  and 
cultured  speakers  still  prefer  the  uncontracted  forms  oite 
way  tabete  wa,  ochite  i£^a,  etc. : — 

Necha  inai.  (     **  Oh  !  no  ;  he  is 

U[s^0r  aieepiHgHndeed,  4mm* t,  (nOt  asleep." 

Matcha  oraremasen, 

•Affar  vtaiiing'iudee^  eauuoi'be, 

Itcha  do      da  ? 

t/i.ff'or'going  indeed   how     it  [it)  f 


"•   I      »I  can't  wait.'* 
e.     j 

f     *  *  What  do  you  say 
I  to  our  going  there  ?  " 


So 


shicha 


komari- 


So      doiug'iMdeed,    [oHeYwill-be' 

masu. 

troubled. 


So 

So 


shicha 

doing  imdeedf 


ikemasen, 

i$'HO'gO* 


shinakucha 

not»doiMg, 


Ko 

Thi» 

Ki         wo 
Spirit  (accus.) 
ikemasen. 
itnwgo. 


narimasen. 

$eou*t'b€com$€. 


otoshicha  ^ 

ietting'faii    mM'for^ 


"Annoyance  will 
be  caused  if  you  do 
that." 

"  It  won't  do  for 
you  to  do  that,"  or 
"  You  mustn't  do 
Uhat." 

**  It  won't  do  not 
to  do  this,"  i.e., 
**You  must  do 
this." 

"  You  mustn't  let 
your  spirits  droop." 


lyS  THE  VERB. 

N.  B.  The  last  three  examples  illustrate  what  has  already  been 
said  in  the  N.  B.  to  p.  170  concerning  the  rendering  of  our  word 
*'must"  by  a  double  negative  in  Japanese,  while  also  showing  that 
*'  must  not "  ia  rendered  by  a  single  negative.  Observe,  moreover, 
the  general  tendency  to  use  the  emphatic  gerund  chiefly  in  phrases 
expressing  negation,  interrogation,  or  something  disagreeable. 
^r  285.  Desiderative  Adjective  and  Adjective  of  Proba- 
bility,— The  use  of  these  forms  may  be  best  understood 
from  a  few  examples : 

Mitai        mono.  j     "  Something         I 

i^aui'ta-Met    ihimg.  (should  like  to  see." 

Sono    mono     wo        mitai.  .    f     "I    want    to    see 

Thai    thing  (accus.)  9tant''i0'9ee.     [that." 

Chotto       negaito    gozaimasuA.    **  I    want    to  ask 

SHghiiy  u>aut4ng'tO'beg    am.  [yOU  a  slight  favour." 

Ariso  na      koto.  (   <*  Something  which 

M^iheifrtm^e      tact.  jis  likely  to  happen." 

Ariso        mo        nai         koto,  f .  " ,^n'?^"f  ^j!^"^ 

isn  t  likely   to    hap-  . 

Ipen." 

Ame      ga        agariso       desu.  f     "  It  looks  as  if  the 
JBatfM    {nom.)  iihei9't0'ei0ar   is.     [rain  would  clear  off." 

Oishiso  desu.  (from  the   ad-\ 

M^ihelp-tcbe^iee     is.        jective  oishii,  I       **  It  looks  gOOd. 
*'  good         to  r         (E.  g,  a  cake.) 
eat.")  ) 

II  286.  Besides  this  '*  adjective  of  probability,"  obtained  by 

agglutinating  s6  to  the  indefinite  form,  there  is  an  idiom 

formed  by  using  55  after  the  present  or  past  tense.     5o, 

which  is  then  best  written  as  a  separate  word,  has  the 

force  of  "  it  would  seem  that,"  "  they  say  that "  : — 

0  ide      ni        fiaru  \ 

M0Honrabie        exit      f       heeomes  I       ''  It     WOuId      seem 

SO         desu.  I  that  he  is  coming." 

a^ppearanee      is,  ] 


JLiheiwf'be  als0        isu*i  fad. 


t.\ 


THE   CONDITIONAL   MOOD.  X79 


Ano  yado-ya    wa,     yaketa  ' 

Vkai       hotel      affort  hat'bnrni 

SO  desu. 

appearauee     it* 


"  They  say  that 
that  hotel  has  burnt 
down." 


Taisoni     it  so         desilA     "It   is   said  to  be 

Greatlff  gmod  appearance    it,     ^excellent." 

ir  287.  Conditional  Present  and  Past, — These  tenses  have 

a  somewhat  peculiar  history.     In  the  Classical  form  of  the 

language  there  is  what  is  called  a  "  hypothetical  present 

and  past,"  besides  the  conditional  present  and  past,  thus  : 

Condit.    Pres.,  okeha^  "  when  I  put;  "  tahureha,  "  when 

I  eat," 

„         Past,  okitartba,  '*  when  I  had  put;'*  tabetare^bay 

"  when  I  had  eaten.' V    N.  B,    In  many  caaes '» as  "  is\ 
Va  better  translation  than  "  when.'*/ 

Hypoth.  Pres.,  okaba,  "  if  I  put ;"  tabeba,  ''  if  I  eat." 
„         Past,  okitaraba  "  if  I  had  put ;"  tabetaraba^ 
"if  I  had  eaten." 

The  hypothetical  present,  it  will  be  noticed,  was  formed 
by  suffixing  ba  to  the  negative  base.  All  four  forms  may 
still  be  met  with  in  the  so-called  Colloquial  of  certain  books. 
But  in  actual  Colloquial  practice  the  distinction  between 
hypothetical  and  conditional  has  been  given  up,  and  the 
sense  of  "  when  "  is  expressed  by  a  periphrasis  with  the 
word  tokij  lit.  "time,"  as  kuru  toki,  "when  he  comes." 
The,  curious  thing  is  that  what  have  survived  are  the 
present  tense  of  the  old  conditional  mood,  and  the  past 
tense  of  the  old  hypothetical.  The  single  Colloquial 
mood  thus  formed  from  the  halves  of  the  two  Classical 
moods  might  perhaps  better  be  termed  the  hypothetical, 
as  it  has  the  sense  of  "if .."  But  we  have  pre- 
ferred the  name  of  conditional,  as  being  more  familiar 
to  European  ears,  and  as  having  the  authority  of  Mr. 


i8o 


THE   VERB. 


Satow's  **  Kuaiwa  Hen"  The  only  present  tense  hypo- 
thetical forms  that  have  remained  in  common  use  are 
iwabuy  from  iu,  **  to  say,"  which  is  employed  in  the  sense 
of  **  so  to  say,"  and  narabay  from  naru,  a  Classical  verb 
meaning  **to  be,**  and  not  to  be  confounded  with  the 
nam  which  means  **  t|P become."  Naraha  therefore  pro- 
perly signifies  "  if  it  be  ;  "  but,  when  employed  as  an  auxi- 
liary attached  to  other  verbs,  it  comes  to  mean  no  more 
than  "  if."  Thus  iku  naraha  is  **  if  I  go."  Naraha  is 
often  clipped  of  its  last  syllable,  and  becomes  nara  : — 


Dekitara{ba)f  motte 

Mf-hag'eveHinaiedt     emrrffing 

kite       kudasat, 
€0M$iHg  €0HSe»eeMd* 

O  iriyo     naraha  y' 

Mmtfnnabiy   reqnisite     if'itf 

o  mochi  nasai, 

h0H»nrabiy  taking   deign, 

Aite      iru   nara,  kashite' 

Open        it         iff        tending 

kudasai, 

condescend, 

Areba,     yd     gozaimasu 

Mf-tkere^B,  g—d  (it)  is 

ga 

miikoHgk 


I 

"knew 


Kochira  de  ionjite  oreha^ 

Mere     in,  knowing  if'be, 

moshi-agemasu       ga 

sa^Mfill-iift  np    aitkangk, . . . 

Ko  sureba,    dekiru{no)ni 

Vkus  if'dOf  eveninates  ufkereas . . . . 

cr,  with  a  stronger  tinge  of  blame, 
Ko       sureba  y      dekiru      mono 

Vkns         if'do,       ewentnates    iking 

WO 


**  Please  bring   it   with 
ydu,  if  it  is  ready." 


*<  Please  take  it,  if  you 
require  it." 

**  If  you  have  no  use  for 
.it  at  present,  please  lend 
it  to  me." 

"  I  wish  there  werp 
some  {hut  I  hardly  think 
there  are);''  hence  **  I  fear 
there  are  none." 

would  tell  you  if  I 
(hut  I  don't  know)," 

"You  could  do  it 
m  this  way  if  you 
tried  {but you  haven't 
tried,  although  you 
ought  to  have  done 
so)," 


CONDITIONAL  AND   CONCESSIVE    MOODS.  l8l 

These  last  three  examples  are  specially  important,  as 
illustrating  a  whole  class  of  elliptical  idioms,  with  which 
Colloquial  Japanese  abounds,  and  by  which  our  **  I  would 
if  I  could,"  **  I  should,  had  I  been  able,**  etc.,  etc.,  are 
expressed.  It  is  true  that  the  final  particles  (ga,  niy  no 
ni,  mono  wo)  are  sometimes  omitted.  But  they  are 
generally  retained,  and  the  sentence  therefore  remains 
unfinished.  After  all,  there  is  nothing  to  be  astonished 
at  in  this.  From  the  point  of  view  of  logic,  a  conditional 
sentence  is  always  incomplete.  For  instance,  when  we 
say  **  I  should  like  to  travel,**  the  implied  rider  is  "  but 
I  cannot,**  or  **I  cannot  yet,**  or  some  such  clause. 
Compare  also  the  words  within  parentheses  in  the  ex- 
amples under  discussion.  Observe  that  ni  final  implies 
regret  or  reproach,  while  no  ni  superadds  to  this  a 
relative  shade  of  meaning, — that  is,  it  shows  that  the 
thing  to  be  done  is  either  something  concerning  which 
a  command  had  previously  been  given,  or  else  that  it 
is  a  point  of  duty,  or  that  it  refers  to  some  other 
circumstance  known  to  both  speaker  and  doer.  Mono 
wo  is  more  emphatic  still.  It  lays  still  greater  stress 
on  the  failure  to  perform  the  desired  action,  and  often 
alludes  to  some  accident  or  misfortune  as  the  cause  of 
such  failure. 
IF  288.  Concessive  Present  and  Pas^.— The  peculiar  force  of 
these  forms  corresponds  most  nearly  to  that  of  our  word 
"  though,**  but  is  generally  best  rendered  in  practice  by 
prefixing  **but'*  to  the  following  clause.  The  orthodox 
concessive  forms  given  in  the  paradigms  are  not  often 
heard  in  actual  practice,  being  mostly  replaced  by  the 
word  keredo{mo)j  "  though,'*  itself  of  verbal  origin,  con- 
strued with  the  present  or  past  indicative,  thus  : 


l82 


THE   VERB. 


<*It  is  distasteful  to 
me,  but  I  can't  help  my- 
self." 

**  The  article  is  a  good 
one,  but  it  is  too  dear." 


**  I  have  looked  for  it, 
but  can't  find  it." 


lya       da  keredo,  shi-kata 

M9isi0»iefnl  it   thanghf  wmffim^ao 

ga     nai. 
{mm.)  itatru    (Familiar.) 

li    keredo,    ne      ga     takai. 

Good  ghonghf  price  (nom,)  (is)high» 
(Familiar.) 

Sagashlta    keredomo,    shi- 
Souffhi  tkongk,         eaw 

remasen, 

UOt^kHOte, 

Sometimes,  instead  of  keredomo  or  keredo^  we  hear  the 
longer  periphrasis  to  wa  iedo{mo),  lit.  "  though  one  says 
that."     Thus  oitaredo{ino)y  otta  keredo[mo)y  and  oita  to 

.    wa  iedo{mo)  are  all  synonymous  and  equally  correct. 

IT  289.  A  well-marked  shade  of  meaning  distinguishes  the 
concessive  mood  proper  from  expressions  closely  resem- 
bling it  in te  mo,  de  mo  and  to  mo.     Thus  attaredo, 

atta  keredo,  or  atta  to  wa  iedo  signifies  "  though  there 
was,"  "though  there  has  been,"  whereas  atta^  to^  itte^  mo* 
(lit.  "  even*  saying^  that*  there  was*)  signifies  **  though 
there  may  (or  might)  have  been,"  and  aru  to  mo  signifies 
**  though  there  be."  The  former  set  of  idioms  states  a 
fact,  the  latter  hazards  a  supposition  : — 


Karinakute  mo    tarimasii, 
Karinai  de    mo^  tarimasu, 
Borroaoiug'Mot  eoeth    anMcet, 

Miru   mo         iya         desu, 

Seeiug  even  disagreeable  is, 

or  Miru   no  tno  iya        desu, 
Iku  to  mo,    yosu     to  mo, 

Go  whether,  absiaiu  whether, 

go  tsugo  skidat     ni 

awgnst  convenience  according  io 

nasai, 
deign. 


**  I  have  enough,  with- 
out borrowing  any  more." 

**  I  can't  bear  even  to 
see  it." 


"  Pray   suit    yourself, 
^whether  it  be  to   go   or 
to  stay." 


CONCESSIVE    IDIOMS,    FREQUENTATIVE   FORM.  183 

Iwanakute  mo     shitteru.      f     **  I   know    it   without 
Sa9iHig''Hoi e9eH,hHoufiMg'am,\     your  telling  me." 

N,  B.    Shitteru  stands  for  shitte  iru. 

"There  will  be  no  harm 

Utchatte         mo    yoroshii.   done,  even  if  you  throw  it 

TMromiMg'aufatf  erett,    («)  ^oorf.' away."    i.  c,    **  You   may 

^throw  it  away.'* 

Sonna  ni    yoku    nak&te    \ 

Tkn»        g—4   M0P-b€ing  I      "  You  need  not  use  such 
mo   yoroshii.  [a  good  one.'* 

eteuf    (is)  good.  ) 

N,  B.  These  examples  suggest  the  manner  in,  which  some  of  our 
idioms  with  "may,"  "need,"  and  "without"  are  to  be  rendered  in 
Japanese. 

We  have  already  noticed  in  IF  ii8  (pp.  80 — 81)  the  force, 
not  unlike  that  of  the  concessive  mood,  often  inherent  in 
the  postposition  tote.     Here  is  another  example. 


Seijin-tachi      ga       donna' 

Saget  {nom.)    in'whai 

ni      yotte       kangaeta  tote, 

•TAy  mgaembiiug  reHeeied  even^if, 

shire         ya       shinai. 
abi€mto»hnam  aw^fory    do'HOi. 


"That  can  never  be 
known,  however  much 
the  philosophers  may 
put  their  heads  to- 
gether." 


11  290.  Frequentative  Form. — Frequentatives  are  almost 
always  used  in  pairs,  and  the  second  member  of  the  pair 
is  generally  followed  by  the  verb  suru,  "to  do."  The 
fundamental  force  of  this  tense  is  either  to  show  that 
the  action  denoted  by  the  verb  is  occasional,  or  else  to 
imply  the  alternation  or  opposition  of  two  different  ac- 
tions. The  English  translation  must  vary  according  to 
circumstances : — 


Kitari  honakattari 

SoMmeiiamen'Coaming  9oametiame9'$9oi''€otmiMg 

shimasu. 
dme§* 


"Sometimes  he 
comes,  and  some- 
times he  doesn't.** 


184  THE   VERB. 

»-  .      .  .  [     **  There     is      a 

Nattart  warattari,  great   scene  going 

aomeUme.'€rwiHfi^  M^metimes^iaHghiHg.    J  ^^    _  ^gars        and 

o-sawas[i  desu,  1       1.4.       i.  j 

greai'tJ.^^      (it)  u.  laughter   turn  and 

^  ^  Uurn  about/' 

Kagen  ga  warukuteA     "^^f^^^""" 

B0tMjrttate  (mow.)  being-baO,     well,    that    I    di- 

«^^an  okitari  J  vide    my     time 

sometimet'lyiug'doM'H  fmeUmet'geiUug'Hp']  between  getting 

shite    orimasu.  up     and     lying 

doiug       am.  \down  again.'* 

II 291.  The  Imperative  sounds  rude,  and  is  therefore 
rarely  employed,  except  in  the  case  of  a  few  honorific 
verbs,  an  honorific  periphrasis  being  mostly  preferred,  even 
when  addressing  an  inferior,  as  will  be  explained  in 
H  409.  It  is  to  that  paragraph  that  the  student  should 
devote  his  attention. 

A  noteworthy  idiom,  by  means  of  which  the  English  first 
person  plural  of  the  imperative  ("let  us...")  may  general- 
ly be  rendered,  is  shown  in  the  following  examples : — 

Kd   shiyo      ja     naikaP)      **Let    us   do   it  in  this 
Vku9  9HU'^Uf  iiuHf        J  way."      (Familiar,) 


H  ana-mi     ni     iko       ja 

JFiawermteeiwg  to  M>iti'go 

arimasen  ka  ? 

ii-foi         f 


*'  Let  us  go  and  see  the 
(cherry,  etc.)  blossoms." 
(Polite,) 


Observe,  too  the  idiomatic  use  of  the  Imperative  in  such 
phrases  as  Nani  shirOy  or  nani  itase !  "do  what  you 
may ! " 


AUXILIARY   VERBS. 

2.  Properly  speaking,  several  of  the  suffixes  helping  to 
rm   the  moods  and  tenses  are  auxiliary  verbs  which 
were  once  independent,  some  of  which  are  indeed  still 


AUXILIARY  VERBS.  185 

independent  in  other  positions.  Thus,  when  we  make 
use  of  the  common  phrase  yoku  nemashitay  "  I  have 
slept  well,"  the  polite  sufRx  ntashi  originally  meant  "to 
be,"  and  the  past  termination  ta  (for  te  aru)  means  "  am 
having  finished,"  as  explained  in  ^  247  and  IT  245.  The 
whole  word  nemashita,  resolved  into  its  constituent  parts, 
therefore  signifies  **am  having  finished  being  asleep." 
Many  verbal  stems,  too,  have  been  built  up  by  means 
of  the  verbs  aru,  "  to  be,"  and  eru,  "  to-get,"  as  : 

atsumarUf  "to  collect"(intr.);  a^sr^m^rw,  "tocollect"(trans.); 
suwarUy      "  to  squat ;  "        sueru,        "  to  set." 

IT  293.  More    modern,    and   still  felt  to  be  separate  and 
independent  words,  are  the  following  auxiliaries : 

Aru,  "to  be,"  which  is  often  construed  with  the 
gerund  of  an  active  verbj  to  give  what  we  should  consider 
a  passive  sense,  thus  : 

Muzukashlku     kaite    aru\      "It  is   written   in  too 


OimeuiiBw       wtritiug     4$ 

kara,     watakushi-domo    ni 

beeansCf       the'Hhe»'9t'Mte       to 

wa     yomemasen, 

a»»far,  igmnreaddbie* 


difficult  a  hand  for  me  to 
.be  able  to  read  it."  (More 
lit,  "It  is  in  such  difficult 
writing  that,"  etc.) 


Furoshlki        ni  tsu-      /     "  It   is  wrapped   up  in 

CiotM^rapper     4n  *«»<«i^  Ja   cloth."      [More  lit.     It  is 

tsunde     arimasu,  j  in  a  state  of  wrapped-up-edness 

wrapped        ie.  Mn  a  cloth.) 

N.  B.  The  corresponding  active  idiom  **  is  writing,**  **  is  wrapping 
up,"  etc.,  would  be  rendered  by  kaite  iru  or  oru^  tsutsunde  iru  or  or«, 
as  explained  in  IF  294.  Notice,  moreover,  that  these  quasi -passive 
idioms  with  aru  always  denote  something  which  is  done  already^  not 
something  which  is  being  done,  that  is  to  say  that  they  are  not  w]^at 
English  grammarians  term  "  continuative  tenses."  They  are  also 
rather  intransitive  in  intention  than  properly  passive. 


l86  THE   VERB. 

The  most  frequent  use  of  am  as  an  auxiliary  is  to  form 
compound  equivalents  for  the  probable  present  or  future, 
and  for  several  of  the  tenses  of  the  negative  voice,  thus  : 

Kuru  de  aro  or  kuru  dardy  for  koydy  **will  probably 
come." 

Konai  de  atta  or  konai  datta,  for  konakatta,  "did  not 
come.** 

Konai  de  attard  or  konai   dattaroy  for  konakattaro, 
**has  probably  not  come." 

For  darOy  datta,  etc.,  may  be  substituted  their  polite 
equivalents  deshOy  deshita,  etc.,  already  mentioned  on 
p.  167,  thus  :  kuru  deshd,  konai  deshltay  konai  deshitaro. 
Notice  that  the  compound  future  expresses  a  somewhat 
stronger  shade  of  doubt  than  the  simple  future,  -^rw  is 
also  replaced  by  the  politer  gozaru  in  such  phrases  as 
naorimashite  gozaimasH,  for  naorimashita,  "  He  has  got 
well  again." 
H  294.  Iru  and  oru,  "to  be,'*  construed  with  the  gerund, 
form  continuative  tenses  corresponding  to  such  English 
expressions  as  **  I  am  reading,**  "  I  was  writing,**  **  I 
shall  be  working,**  etc.,  thus : 

Nani     wo     shite  imasu  ?  "  What  is  he  doing  ?  ** 
If *»«!  (accus.)  SfiH^    4»  f 

Mada    nete     orimasu.       "  He  is  still  sleeping.** 

sun  tUepimg         U* 

Necha  imasumai,     \     "  He  is  not  likely  to  be 

aUepim^»'far^prmb9bift49-moi.]  sleeping:'     (Emphatic  gerund.) 

Kesa  kara     kumotte  \      "  It  had  been  clouding 

vkUtHorttiug  siuee,    cionding  I  over    (or    cloudy)    since 

ni        natte  kimashita.    »*  '^^t  it  has  come  on 

'      «•  ik«N>4N«4ceMMe    itafCMne.    ''  to  rain." 


THE  AUXILIARIES  IRU,   ORU,   AND   KURU.  187 

Ei    no  ichi-ri    to]   Nihon\ 

JBnglitHd  '.  .uermUe  a^d,  Japm^         Which    dO  VOU  think 

no  tchi-rt      to,   dochtra  ga    I  jg ^^e  longer,  an  English 
nobite       imasho?  '  mile  or  a  Japanese  n  ? 

extending  pr^babljf^t  f  / 

Kite  orimasu.  )      **He  is  having  come.*' 

MaviHg^ome  i§.  I  i.^.,  **  He  has  come." 

In  such  an  instance  as  the  last,  the  simple  past 
kimashita  would  be  less  clear;  for  it  might  only 
mean  that  the  man  had  come  and  had  gone  away  again, 
whereas  kite  orimasu  can  only  mean  that  he  has  come 
and  is  still  there. 

Sometimes  we  must  translate  such  sentences  by  the 
English  passive,  Japanese  idiom  almost  invariably  prefer- 
ring the  neuter,  thus : 

Mada      dekite        imasen 


sail    eveutnating    4$'H0i 

ka? 


'^sn't  it  finished  yet?" 


Very  often  the  word  t>«,  "  to  be,**  loses  its  initial  i 
after  the  gerund,  and  we  hear  neteru  for  nete  iru,  **is 
sleeping;**  kaiteru,  for  kaite  irUy  "  is  written '*  (lit.  "is 
writing  "),  etc.  This  is  a  good  example  of  the  tendency 
of  the  Japanese  language  to  turn  independent  words  into 
agglutinated  suffixes.  In  very  vulgar  parlance,  the 
particle  wa,  used  with  an  exclamatory  force,  often 
coalesces  with  a  preceding  iru.  Thus  naite  ird  I  for 
naite  iru  wa  !  **  oh  !  he  is  crying.*'  Such  expressions 
are  to  be  carefully  avoided. 

N.  B.  Observe,  too,  that  iru  is  often  politely  replaced  by  irassharu. 

295.  Kuru,    "to    come,'*    construed    with    the    gerund, 
forms  what  grammarians  of  certain  other  Eastern  Asiatic 


l88  THE   VERB. 

languages  have  termed  "  illative  "  tenses, — **  illative  "  be- 
^  .      cause  they  superadd   to  the   main  idea  the  subsidiary 
^^  ?9e€i.^  motion  towards  the  speaker  or  the  person  ad- 
dressed, thus : 

Kippu        wo  katte  \ 

Vieket      {accus,)  htAkttg^^nght  I      '*  I  will  go  and  buy  a 
kimasho,  ("ticket." 

Yonde  kimasho     ha.  \     "  Shall  I  go  and  call 

MtniHg^aiied  $haii(l)e0me    f     J  him  ?  " 

Omoshiroi  koto     wo      itte    ] 

^muting   iMug  (accus.)  »ayi»g\       *' He  has  told   US    a 
kita.  I  funny  story." 

N,  B,  Observe  bow  English  sometimes  exactly  reverses  the  Ja- 
panese idiom,  using  "to  go"  where  Japanese  has  "to  come."  In 
other  cases,  as  in  the  last  of  the  above  examples,  the  word  "come  *' 
must  simply  be  omitted  in  English  as  superfluous. 

%  296.  Miru,  **  to  see,"  construed  with  the  gerund,  shows 
that  an  action  is  to  be  attempted,  but  without  any  very 
great  effort, — that  it  is  to  be,  as  the  slang  phrase  has  it, 
just  taken  a  shot  at : 

Yatte  nnmaskS.  i^--^^')     (,  J  ^^^^^  ^^^  ->' 
Kiite    miru   ga        ii.  1     **  ^^"     ^^^     better 

^Mthiug  ia-^ee  (nom,)  ia'go0d*         J  enquire." 


Nete      mite    mo,   nerare- 

SleepiHg  tr^giug  evcHf    etUd^ 

masen     deshita. 
uot^ieep    (it)  w€$$. 


**  I    tried  to  take  a 
nap,  but  couldn't." 


ir  297.  Nara{ba)f  "if  it  be,"   serves  to  form  a  compound 

conditional  (see  p.  180). 
H  298.  OkUf  "  to  put,"  construed  with  the  gerund,  indicates 

the  full  and  complete  settling  of  a  matter,  thus : 


THE   AUXILIARIES   OKU   AND    SHIMAU.  189 

Kippu  WO  katte  \ 

Tickei  [accus.)  MawiHg^oMghtl     **  I  have  got  my  ticket 
okimashita.  \all  right.'' 

hmve^uU  ) 

Kangaete    oite       kudasai,  \     "  Please     think     the 

MeHeeiiug  puitiHg  eoMtieteeHti.  j  XXlSLtttT     well     OVer,** 


Techo       ni        tsukete 

Jfoi€'book     iM      Ua/tiMg'Mxed 

okimasho. 
wUi  pr0babiff'pwU 


**  I  think  I  will  put  it 
down  in  my  note-book  {so 
as  to  be  sure  to  remember 
it). 


Sore  made  no  koto  ni  shite\ 

ruai    an   'M  ihiugriodoiug]      a  There  is  nothing  for 
oku       hoka,     sht'kata    ga   [a  but  to  let  the   matter 
tiHput  beMide,,  ^afrio-do  {nom,)    ^^^^  ^^        ., 
nai.  I 

Atsuraete  oita.  )      u  i  have  ordered  it  (at 

Maviug'ordered    have^pMi*  f      eVirkr^N  " 

(More  politely  okimashita).  )  ^  snop;. 

The  word  oita  in  this  last  example  shows  that  the 
speaker  thinks  that  the  order  will  be  satisfactorily  exe- 
cuted. Atsuraete  kita  would  mean  that  one  had  just 
come  from  leaving  the  order  with  the  shopman. 

IF  299.  ShimaUf  "  to  finish,"  construed  with   the  gerund, 
expresses  the  completion  of  an  action,  thus : 

Shinde      shimatta.{¥amiii&T.)\     "He     is     dead     and 

Mavimg  died  hag'Muighed,  )  gone,'* 


Isha  sama  ni       natte 

JFhffHeiaM  Jffr,  to  having^eeoame 

shimaimashita. 
hm$»MH4Mhed, 

Motte  itte 

BavU^g-carried      kaving^gone 

shimaimashita. 

kiwMnisked, 


"  He  has  become  a 
.  doctor. '  *  (After  having  had 
several  other  professions  in 
view.) 


"He   has    carried    it 


igO  THE   VERB. 

Utchatte        shimaimasho.  |     "I  think  I  will  throw 


"  It  has  ended  hy  turn- 
ing into  a  regular  wet 
day." 


Toto     hom-buri    ni  natte 

yMPdmti  maim'faiiimg  to  haming' 

shimaimaskita, 

N.  B.  **  Main-falling,"  in  this  last  example,  having  been  supposed 
by  some  students  of  the  first  edition  to  be  a  misprint  for  "  rain-falling," 
it  may  be  well  to  point  out  that  Aon,  "  main  (rain),"  is  here  antithetical 
to  "  [occasional)  rain,"^  or  what  we  should  call  a  shower,  Jap.  yOdachi. 

Beginners  might  easily  be  led  into  misapprehension, 
by  attributing  to  shimau  an  independent  force,  instead  of 
looking  on  it  as  a  simple  auxiliary  to  the  verb  which 
precedes  it.  This  point  requires  attention.  Thus  nefe 
shimatta  does  not  mean  "  he  has  finished  sleeping,"  but 
rather  **  He  has  finished  by  sleeping,"  or  more  simply 
"  He  has  gone  to  sleep."  Dete  shimaimaskita  does  not 
mean  **  He  has  finished  going  out,"  but  **  He  has  gone 
out." 
%  300.  The  negative  present  oi  suru  or  itasu,  **  to  do,"  con- 
strued with  the  indefinite  form  of  any  verb  and  the 
postposition  wa,  forms  an  emphatic  equivalent  for  the 
negative  present  of  that  verb.  In  such  contexts  wa  is 
generally  pronounced  ya  in  familiar  intercourse  : 

Ari  wa  shimasen.  (Polite.) )      ,,  ^.         •     ,,  „ 

Ari  ya  shinai.  (Familiar.)  J  ^  ^^'^  ""*  ^  ^"^• 


Sonna  koto     way        ii 

Such   thing  as'for,  aaying 

ya     itashimasen. 

at'forf  (/)  dcMot'do* 

Mo        ki      ya  itashima-' 

•€gaim  eomiMg  aB'foTf  (he)  tviit 
sen. 

uot'do* 


**  I  should  never  dream 
of  saying  such  a  thing." 


"  I   am  sure   he  won't 
come  again." 


THE  AUXILIARIES    SURU  AND  YARU. 


igi 


When  two  such  clauses  are  co-ordinated,  mo  replaces 
wa  in  both,  thus : 


Mi     mo  shinai,  kiki 
Seeiug  even  dm»n9ti  hearing 

mo  shinai. 

even  4lo-ff«f.  (familiar,) 


**  I     neither     saw 
heard  anything.'* 


nor 


The  first  of  two  clauses  thus  co-ordinated  is  often  put 
in  the  conditional,  strange  as  such  a  construction  may 
seem  to  European  ideas.  Thus  the  last  example  might 
equally  well  read  thus :  Mi  mo  shinakerebUf  kiki  mo 
shinai.  It  might  also  read  thus :  Mi  mo  sezuy  kiki  mo 
shinai.  Indeed  this  last  would  be  the  most  strictly  gram- 
matical manner  of  expressing  the  idea;  for  the  two 
clauses  would  then  be  correlated  syntactically,  according 
to  the  rule  explained  in  HH  278 — 279  (pp.  173-4),  ^^^^ 
being  the  negative  gerund  of  sum ,  "  to  do.*' 

H  301.  Yarn,  "to  send,"  "to  give,"  construed  with  the 
gerund,  often  helps  to  form  a  periphrasis  for  the  simple 
verb  when  that  verb  is  a  transitive  one,  the  periphrasis 
always  retaining  something  of  the  idea  of  "  giving,"  as  in 
the  following  examples  : 


Dashtte  yaru^  for  dasii. 
Butte  yarimasho. 


"  To  put  outside." 

"  I  will  give  him  a  beat- 
ing. (Buchitnasho  would  be 
simply  **^I  will  beat  him.") 


WO       toite      yari- 

{accus,)  loBtening  wUt^ 


Inu 
90g 

masu. 
give* 

(Inu  wo  tokimasU  would  be  simply  "I  will  untie  the  dog.") 


"  I  am  going  to  give 
-the  dog  his  liberty  {by 
untying  him),'' 


192  THE  VBRB. 


Daiku       ni       koshirae- 

Cturpeuter      htf,      eautiHg^i^' . 

sasete      yarimasho. 

prepare  (/)  wiii^rehabt^give. 


'  <*  I  think  I  will  let  the 
carpenter  make  one." 
(Either  in  order  to  give  him 
work,  or  in  order  to  benefit 
some  poor  person). 


• 


There  are  a  few  more  auxiliary  verbs;  but  as  their 
force  is  purely  honorific,  the  student  is  referred  to  H  402 
et  seq,y  where  the  subject  of  honorific  verbs  is  discussed 
at  length. 

IF  302.  The  Japanese  have  a  great  fondness  for  rounding 
off  their  sentences  by  one  of  the  equivalents  for  *'  to  be,"  or 
by  kuru,  oku,  shimau,  or  yarn.  The  plain  verb,  without 
one  or  other  of  these  auxiliaries,  is  apt  to  sound  bald.  We 
do  not  mean  ;to  say  that  the  auxiliaries  are  meaningless 
expletives.  Far  from  it.  They  always  retain  in  the 
mind  of  the  Japanese  speaker  a  portion  of  their  original 
force.  But  whereas  English  idiom  for  the  most  part 
simply  states  the  occurrence  of  an  action,  Japanese  idiom 
delights  in  describing  more  particularly  the  manner  of 
the  action's  occurrence  with  reference  to  the  subsidiary 
ideas  of  "  coming,"  "  finishing,"  etc.,  which  the 
auxiliaries  express.  For  instance,  an  English  maid- 
servant, speaking  of  a  piece  of  dirty  linen,  will  say  **  I 
will  have  it  washed,  Sir."  Her  Japanese  sister  would  ^ 
say  Arawashite  okimasho,  lit.  "Having  caused  (some  ^ 
one)  to  wash  (it,  I)  will  put  (it)/*  that  is  to  say,  "  I  will 
have  it  washed,  and  there  it  will  be,**  The  simple  verb 
merely  states  a  dry  fact.  The  addition  of  the  auxiliary 
makes  the  action  seem  to  pass  vividly  before  you.  The 
sentence  becomes  lifelike  and  picturesque. 


CHAPTER     IX. 

The  Verb  (concluded). 


PASSIVE    AND    POTENTIAL   VERBS. 

%  303.  The  Japanese  language  has  no  special  conjugation  for 
the  passive  voice.  All  passive  verbs  belong  to  the  second 
active  conjugation,  the  paradigm  of  which  has  been 
given  on  p.  152.  They  are  derived  from  the  corresponding 
active  or  neuter  verbs  according  to  the  following  rule  : — 
In  verbs  of  the  ist  conjugation  add  rem,  in  verbs  of 
the  2nd  and  3rd  conjugations  add  rarerUj  to  the  Negative 
Base,  thus : 

tmatsu,    "  to  wait ;  "  matarerUy       **  to  be  {more  lit,  to 

get)  waited  for." 
oku,       "to  put;'*      okareruy  "to  be  put." 

warauj  "to  laugh;"  warawareru,  "to  be  laughed  at." 
^yobu,      "  to  call ;  "    yobareru,        "  to  be  called." 


o 


0 

keruy 

"to  kick;" 

kerarerUf 

"  to  be  kicked." 

•0 

c 

taherUy 

"  to  eat ;  " 

taberareru, 

"  to  be  eaten." 

1 

iruy 

"  to  shoot ;" 

irarerUf 

"  to  be  shot." 

•d 

mirUy 

"  to  look ;  " 

mirarerUf 

"  to  be  looked  at." 

The  irregular  verbs  kuru,  "to  come ;"  shinuru,  "  to  die ;" 
and  sum,  "to  do,"  have  the  passives  korareru,  shinareru, 
and  serareru  or  sareru  respectively.     The  polite  termina- 
tion masii  is  not  susceptible  of  the  passive  form. 
IF  304.  A  glance   at  the  origin   of  the  Japanese   passive 


194  ^H^   VERB. 

will  furnish  the  student  with  a  key  to  all  the  difficulties 
connected  with  it.  Properly  speaking,  the  so-called 
passive  is  not  a  passive  at  all,  but  an  active  in  disguise. 
Such  a  form  as  utareru,  for  instance,  is  etymologically 
uchi^  ari*  eru^y  as  literally  as  possible  "  to  get*  being* 
beating*,*'  i.e.,  "  to  get  a  beating,"  "  to  get  beaten,"  hence 
"  to  be  beaten."  Similarly  irareru  is  from  the  stem  i,  a 
euphonic  r,  and  art  eru,  i.e.,  "to  get  being  shooting," 
"  to  get  a  shooting,"  "  to  get  shot."  Hence  the  place  of 
all  passive  verbs  in  the  second  conjugation  along  with  the 
verb  erUy  **  to  get."  Hence,  too,  the  fact  that  intransitive 
verbs  are  susceptible  of  passive  forms,  such  as  furarerUy 
**to  get  rained  upon,"  "to  have  it  rain,"  from  /wrw,  *^to 
rain  ;  "  shinareru,  "  to  have  some  one  die." 

IT  305.  This    curious    idiom   may  be  better  illustrated  by 

some  complete  sentences,  thus  : 

Otottsan  ni      okora-      \      "Oh I   you  will  have  {or 

Fapa    ft9(^ott)  «r^#-»«-[  make)     papa    angry    with 

reru  yo  I  [you  ;  "  more  lit.  "  You  will 

g^i-angrw,  •*  /  j  be  got  angry  with  by  papa." 

"A   man    doesn't    know 


Anna  kyaku  ni    kora- 

Sneh  gnetit  fty,  geiUug* 

recha,    meiwaku  shimasu,' 


what  to  do,  when  he  has  such 
guests  as  that  come  to  the 
^  house  ;  "  more  lit,  **  when 
he  is  come  to  by  such 
guests." 

Or  take,   from   the   opening   sentence  of  the   second 

chapter  of  the  ^^  Botan  Doro"  in  the  Practical  Part  of 

this  work,  the  words 

J  Go  shimpu     sama     ni     wa  naku 

*MHg99§t    reai'faiher    JWr*      fty    a«-/«r,    §$0t&'em§ieHt 

narare 

geiiiug^ee0mte{d) 

Parsed  literally,  they  signify  "  Being  died  by  his  father ; " 


NATURE   OF   THE    SO-CALLED   PASSIVE. 


195 


but  they  simply,  mean  "Having  had  his  father  die,"  or,  as 

we  should  generally  express  it,  "  Having  lost  his  father.'* 

N.  B.     As  shown  in  these  examples,  the  preposition  "by"  of 

English  passive  constructions  is  expressed  by  the  postposition  nL 

H  306.  The  following  examples  are  of  a  somewhat  different 
nature : 
Ano     hito     wa,      dare  ni 

de   mo       homerarete     imasu, 

by  eveu,  geiiiug^raiBed      it. 


"He    is    praised   by 
every  body." 


Kono   inu      wa,      muyami\ 

Vhia      d9g     at'for^    rechieta- 

ni   hoeru      kara,       hito      m 

l§t     barht     becaute,    people 

iyagararemasu. 
geiB'ditUheO, 


**  This  dog  gets  itself 
^^Misliked,  because  it  is  for 
^  ever  barking.'* 


Kuhi     wo      hanerareta. 

Mead  {accus,)   got'ttmek^Or. 


Ashi    wo     inu  ni 


kui- 


Mteg  (accus.)  dog  by   (/)  have' 

tsukaremashita,  "^ 

goi-biUeu, 


"  He  got  his  head  cut 
off,"  less  lit,  **  His  head 
,was  cut  off." 

/  **  I  have  had  my  leg 
bitten  by  a  dog ;  "  less . 
lit.  "  I  have  been  bitten 
in  the  leg  by  a  dog ;"  still 
less  lit,  **  My  leg  has 
^been  bitten  by  a  dog." 


Oshii      koto  ni  wa,  yukyo  \ 

Mtegreiiabie  fact  aji-for,  pieaMnre 

ni    kokoro     wo     uhawarema- 

bjft     heart    {accus.)     haviug'goi' 

shite  ^      gyo        ga     orosoka 

»tole»*9  buMiHCMB  (nom,)  reaaitsueat 

ni  narimashita, 
to    hat'beeonte. 


**  I  am  sorry  to  say 
that  he  has  become  en- 
grossed in  (lit,  has  got 
his  heart  stolen  by)  plea- 
sure, and  has  become 
remiss  in  his  work." 


iV.  B.    The  phraseology  of  this  last  example  would  hardly  be 

understood  by  the  lower  classes. 

H  307.  The  presence  of  wo  in  such  examples  as  the  last 

three  is  apt  to  puzzle  the  beginner.     But  there  is  nothing 

really  illogical  about  it.     The  word  accompanied  by  wo 


^9^  THE   VERB. 

actually  is  in  the  accusative  in  Japanese,  as  shown  by  the 
literal  translations  we  have  given.  It  is  not  in  any  way 
the  subject  of  the  sentence.  That  its  English  equivalent 
in  a  free  translation  may  happen  to  be  the  indirect  object 
of  the  verb,  or  even  a  nominative,  only  shows  how  neces- 
sary it  is  for  those  who  would  speak  idiomatically  to  get 
into  the  habit  of  looking  at  ideas  from  the  Japanese  point 
of  view.  The  real  nominative  here,  as  in  sentences  of 
every  kind,  is  very  rarely  expressed  in  Japanese. 

11  308.  It  is  important  for  the  student,  when  occupied  with 
Japanese  passive  constructions  proper,  to  compare  what 
has  been  said  in  IT  293  (p.  185)  concerning  an  intransitive 
idiom  with  ar«,  "  to-be,"  by  which  the  English  passive 
is  frequently  expressed.  To  that  paragraph  he  is  accord- 
ingly referred. 

11  309.  The  passive  passes  by  a  natural  transition  into  the 
potential  sense.  If  such  and  such  an  action  is  per- 
formed by  me,  evidently  I  am  able  to  perform  it.  If  it 
is  not  performed  by  me,  a  somewhat  hasty  logic  will 
assume  that  I  am  not  able  to  perform  it.  Thus  okareru 
may  mean  either  "to  be  put,"  or  ** to  be  able  to  put ; " 
korareru  may  mean  either  "  to  have  some  one  else  come 
to  one"  (**to  be  corned"),  or  "to  be  able  to  come." 

N,B»  The  single  form  omowareruy  from  omou,  "to  think,"  is 
somewhat  exceptional.  When  taken  potentially,  it  does  not  mean 
"  to  be  able  to  think,"  but  "  to  venture  to  think,"  "  I  am  inclined  to 
think." 

N.  B.  For  the  natural  transition  of  these  passive-potential  forms 
to  an  honorific  sense,  see  IT  403. 


Ano    hito    niwa,  sake     wa 
nomarenai. 


"  He  cannot  drink 
sake,*'  ( More  lit., 
^^  Sake  does  not  get 
^drunk  by  him.") 


POTENTIAL  IDIOMS.  197 

Gozen    ga    taheraremasen,     \     **  I    can*t    taste    a 

JB#cc     (nom.)  getfHmt'eaitu*        j  morsel." 

Mairaremasu.  "  One  can  go." 

Ikareso  mo    nai.    \      *<  i  am  not  likely  to 


(or  more  politely  gozaimasen).  )  ^^  ^°*®  ^^  S^' 

Mazukute      taheraremasen,     \     "  It  is  too  nasty  to  J 

BeiHg-^attfff       eauM^t^eat,  J  eat." 


Kyo      no    atsusa     wa,     korae- 

V^'day    *B       heat      tU'f&Tf    eaHuot' 

raremasen. 

eudnre* 


"The  heat  to- 
day is  unbear- 
able." 


IT  310.  Potentiality  is  often  otherwise  expressed  by  means 
of  the  verb  dekirUy  a  corruption  of  the  Classical  {i)de'kurUy 
"  to  come  out."  Dekiru  has  come  to  mean  <*  to  eventuate," 
"to  take  place,"  "to  be  ready,"  "to  be  done,"  "to  be 
possible,"  but  must  often  be  rendered  in  English  by  the 
active  "  can,"  "  can  do,"  "  do,"  thus : 

Watakushi    wa  agaru  koto   ga  \ 

J9Me         4M-#«r,  gmmp  fact  {notn.) 

dekimasen  kara,    anata    ga 

eveuinaiet'uoi     heeaute^     yn     (nom*) 

o  ide  kudasaru    koto    ga 

hoH^wtrdkte  ex4i  e^udeBcettd  fact  (nom.) 

dekimasu   nara,  0  me     ni 

evcftuate    ifHt,    h^nonrahte  effet    9u 

kakarimasho. 

wtiii'pr^bdbiyhaug*  / 

The  original  intransitive  meaning  of  dekiru  sufficiently 
explains  why  this  verb  is  construed  with  the  nominative 
particle  ga^  and  not  with  the  accusative  particle  wo^ — a 
point  which  foreigners  often  fail  to  grasp. 

II  311.  Impossibility  is  sometimes  expressed  by  means  of 
the  verb  kaneru,  "  to  be  unable,"  "  cannot,"  which  is 
suffixed  to  the  indefinite  form,  thus  : 


"  As  I  cannot  go 
to  you,  I  can  only 
>-see  you  if  you  will 
be  so  kind  as  to 
come  to  me." 


igS 


THE   VERB. 


Sekkaku    no 


sasot 


Speeial'paiut  •/*  hmuoHratle  4H9iiai40H 

de  gozaimasu    ga, —     konnichi  wa 

mairi'kanemasu , 

gO'CaHHOi* 

Makoto    ni     mdshi-kanemashita\ 


"I   am 


sorry 


2*rwlib 


ga^ —         kasa         wo         ip-pon 

although,  ntmbr^iia{accus.)     •ue-pieeey 

o  kashi   kudasaimashi, 

houourahiff  ieuding     coudeteeUd* 


cannot  avail  my- 
self of  your  exceed- 
ingly kind  invita- 
tion for  to-day." 

**  I  hardly  like  to 
ask  you  for  it,  but 
-would  you  kindly 
lend  me  an  um- 
brella ?" 


This  idiom,  which  is  inherited  from  the  Written   Lan- 
guage, is  now  heard  only  from  the  lips  of  the  educated. 

H  312.  The  verb  morau,  "  to  receive  "  (more  politely  itada- 
kUf  **  to  put  on  the  head,"  in  allusion  to  the  Japanese 
custom  of  raising  a  present  to  the  forehead),  construed 
with  the  gerund,  helps  to  form  an  idiom  which  closely 
resembles  the  so-called  passive  both  in  formation  and 
meaning,  thus : 

Shimbun       wo     yonde     morauj 

JVetTMpaper  (accus.)  reading  #«-rece#«c» 

i.e.,  **  to  receive  somebody  else's  reading  of  the  news- 
paper," or,  as  we  should  generally  say,  *'to  have  the 
newspaper  read  aloud  to  one." 

Monde      morau,  f     "  To  have  one- 


morau, 

MtubbiMg    io^eeeive, 

Asa        hayaku     okoshlte 

•IMoTMiMg      eartff         routiug 

moraitai. 

ttith'to-receive* 

Doha     go      shusen      wo     shite  (     "I     wish     you 

JFiea$e  augnti  a»»i§iaHee(accus.)  doing]  would    be    SO    very 

itadakito  gozaimasu.  1  kind  as  to  help  me." 

wishiHgrto^eeeioe  «mm.  (     {Very  polite.) 


(self  shampooed." 

**  I  wish  to  be 
called  early  in  the 
morning." 


PASSIVES   REPLACED   BY  INTRANSITIVES.  I99 

IT  313.  Many  English  passive  verbs  must  be  rendered  by 
Japanese  intransitives.  This  happens  when  the  idea  is 
one  which  does  not  necessarily  imply  the  action  of  an 
outer  agent,  as  in  kutabireru,  "  to  be  tired ; "  odorokuy 
"to  be  astonished ; "  tasukaru,  <*to  be  saved"  (not  by 
another  person,  which  would  be  the  passive  tasukefareru^ 
but  rather  **  to  be  safe  owing  to  having  escaped'  from 
danger  ") ;  yorokohUy  <*  to  be  pleased  ;  "  hasen^  ni^  au^y 
"to  be  shipwrecked,"  lit.  "to  meet*  with*  shipwreck.^'* 
After  all,  "to  be  tired,"  "to  be  astonished,"  "to  be 
pleased,"  are  not  necessarily  passive  ideas  even  in 
English,  as  may  be  seen  by  comparing  them  with  such 
synonyms  as  "  to  be  weary,"  "  to  wonder,"  "  to  rejoice." 

JV.  B,  Many  of  the  verbs  here  spoken  of  are  inchoative,  Le.,  they 
mark  the  beginning  of  a  condition.  For  instance  k&tabireru  means 
properly  "to  become  tired;  "  nureru  is  "  to^^^  wet;*'  kawaku  is  "  to 
get  dry"  "1  am  tired  "  is  expressed  by  kUtabirete  iru  or  by  the  past 
kUtabiremashita.     Similarly: 

Nurete  imasu,  or  NuremashUa.       **  I  am  (i.e.,  have  become)  wet.'* 

"Your  clothes  are  dry**  (i.e., 
have  become  dry  after  having 
been  wet). 

11314.  The  aversion  of  the  Japanese  language  to  the  use 

of  passive  constructions  is  strongly  marked.    In  nine  cases 

out  of  ten,  the  English  passive  must  be  replaced  either 

by  one  of  the  intransitive  verbs  just  mentioned,  or  by  an 

active  though  subjectless  construction,  thus : 

Risuke^  to^  iu^  otoko^,  "  A  man  called  Risuke ; "  lit. 
"  A  man*  (of  whom  people)  say*  that*  (he  is)  Risiike*." 

Kyo-nen^  tateta^  uchi^,  "A  house  built  last  year,"  lit. 
"  A  house^  (which  some  one)  built*  last -year  .^  " 

Ate'-  ni*  narimasen^;  "  It  is  not  to  be  depended  upon," 
lit.  "  (It)  becomes-not*  to*  reliance^." 


Kimono  ga  kawdkimaskUa, 


200  THE   VERB. 

Yoshlta^  hd*  ga*  yokaro^^  "  It  had  better  be  given  up,*' 
lit,  "  The  forbore*  side*  will-probably-be-good*." 

Kore^  wa}  nani^  ni*  tsukaimasu^  ?  "  What  is  this  used 
for  ?"  lit.  "  As-for*this*,  (people)  use'  (it)  for*  whats  ?" 

Kore^  wa^y  nan^  de^  dekite^  orimas0  ?  **  What  is  this 
made  of?"  lit,  **  As-for*this*,  what*  by*  eventuating*  is*  ?" 

Konna^  tansu*  wa^,  doko^  de^  kaemas0  ?  "  Where  are 
such  cabinets  as  this  to  be  bought  ?"  lit,  "  As-for*  such* 
cabinets*,  where*  at'  are-buyable*  ?" 

These  examples,  together  with  those  given  on  p.  55 
and  in  IF  439,  besides  others  scattered  throughout  the 
volume,  may  serve  to  show  the  student  how  passive 
idioms  are  avoided.  He  could  hardly  do  better  than 
forbid  himself  the  use  of  them  altogether  during  the 
first  six  months  of  his  battle  with  the  language. 

ON    CERTAIN   INTRANSITIVE    VERBS. 

IT  315.  Japanese  has  a  large  class  of  verbs  which  it  is  gen- 
erally convenient  to  translate  by  English  passive  or  po- 
tential idioms,  but  which  in  Japanese  itself  are,  properly 
speaking,  intransitive.  Even  in  English  we  feel  a  dif- 
ference between  two  such  assertions  as  **The  gold  is 
melting  in  the  furnace,"  and  "  The  gold  is  being  melted 
in  the  furnace."  In  the  first  case  the  melting  is  repre- 
sented as  a  spontaneous  event ;  in  the  second  case  it  is 
explicitly  declared  to  be  the  work  of  some  outer  agent. 
The  verb  of  the  former  corresponds  to  the  Japanese  toke- 
ru,  "  to  melt  "  (intransitive) ;  that  of  the  latter  to  tokareru, 
"  to  get  melted"  (passive  derived  from  the  transitive  toku, 
"  to  melt").  There  are  thus  numbers  of  intransitive  verbs 
of  the  second  conjugation,  formed  from  transitives  of  the 
first  conjugation  by  changing  the  termination  u  into  er-u: — 


TRANSITIVE. 

INTRANSITIVE. 

kakUy 

kakerUy        '*  to  write." 

kirUy 

kirerUy         **  to  cut." 

tokUf 

tokeruy         *'  to  melt." 

toruy 

toreru,         "to  take." 

uru, 

ureruy          "to  sell." 

yomu, 

yomeruy       "to  read." 

201 


IT  316.  The  transitives  kirUy  uru,  yontUf  etc.,  are  used  in 
translating  such  phrases  as  "  to  cut  a  slab  of  stone,"  "  to 
sell  goods,"  "to  read  a  sentence."  The  intransitives 
kireru,  ureru,  yomeru  are  used  in  translating  such  phrases 
as  "  This  stone  cuts  easily,"  "  These  goods  sell  cheaply," 
"  This  sentence  does  not  read  well."  The  Japanese  con- 
struction is  less  closely  followed,  but  practical  convenience 
often  best  served,  by  employing  the  word  "  can,"  thus : 
"  You  can  cut  this  stone  easily." 
"  These  goods  can  be  sold  cheaply." 

More  especially  is  this  the  case  when  the  original  verb  is 
itself  intransitive  according  to  English  ideas,  thus:  iku,  "to 
go ;"  ikeru,  "  (I)  can  go."  But  there  is  never  any  reference 
to  "  I  "  or  to  "  can  "  in  the  mind  of  the  Japanese  speaker. 
IT  317.  The  difference  between  the  intransitives  in  eru  and  the 
true  potentials  in  areru  and  rareru  is  that  the  latter  tend 
to  express  moral  ability — "may"  rather  than  "can," — 
because  the  moral  ability  to  perform  an  action  depends 
on  the  sanction  of  a  law  outside  the  agent ;  whereas  the 
forms  in  eru  express  a  physical  ability — "  can  "  rather 
than  "  may," — because  the  physical  ability  to  perform  an 
action  is  generally  independent  of  any  outer  will.  Thus 
ikemasu  means  "one  can  go"  (because  the  way  is  easy, 
or  because  one  is  a  good  walker).    Ikaremasu  means 


202  THE   VERB. 

**one  can  go*'  (because  there  is  no  prohibition  against 
so  doing).  It  is  true  that  the  two  forms  are  sometimes 
confounded,  just  as  English  speakers  occasionally  use 
"can't"  where  **. mayn't"  would  be  more  appropriate. 

N.  B    Ikenai  (politely  ikemasen)  is  an  idiom  of  constant  occurrence 
in  the  sense  of  "  (that)  won*t  do.*' 

IT  318.  The  difference  of  meaning  between  the  passive 
forms  in  areru  and  rareru  and  the  intransitives  in  eru^ 
the  former  implying,  and  the  latter  not  implying,  the 
action  of  an  outer  agent,  may  be  illustrated  by  the  follow- 
ing example.  Kiraremashita  would  be  used  in  speaking 
of  a  man  who  had  been  killed  (lit.  cut)  by  some  highway- 
man or  other  person.  Kireta  would  be  used  in  speaking 
of  a  rope  which  had  snapped  spontaneously,  or  of  friendly 
intercourse  which  had  dropped  without  either  of  the 
parties  to  it  formally  breaking  with  each  other. 

IT  319.  Verbs  belonging  to  the  second  and  third  conjuga- 
tions are  not  capable  of  forming  intransitives  in  eru,  and 
therefore  make  shift  with  the  passive-potentials  in  rareru. 
Note  however  mieru,  **  to  be  visible,"  **  to  seem,"  formed 
irregularly  from  miru,  **  to  see."  Like  it  is  kikoerUf  **to 
be  audible,"  formed  from  kiku,  **  to  hear." 

IT  320.  The  following  are  a  few  examples  of  Intransitives : 

**  There  is  such  a 


Sozoshlkute  kikoemasen. 


row,  I  can't  hear  a 
,word." 

"  It  can  be  said, 
(though  in  practice 
people  do  not  often 
say  it.) " 

Kono  mama  de  wa     irarenai.  ]      **  We  can't  go  on 
Vhig  f€uh40M  iff  aff^r,  emHH0i^he»  j  in  this  way." 


lenai      koto    wa      nai. 

Cauuot'tajf  fact  at-forj  it^M^i, 


INTRANSITIVE  S.  203 

Kore  de   wa,     totemo  ikemasen.)      **  This  won't  do  at 

rkis  bjf  a»'f0rf  p094Hv€ljf  ^•«#-m«I.  j  all." 


Do  de  mo        shire  ya 

shinai.  (ya=wa;  see  N.  B.  to  p.  86.) 


'*  There      is      no 
means  of  knowing." 


Mazukute        nomenai,  |     "  It  is  too   nasty 

Mfeiug-uasifft  ^g^uHttrinkaHe*  j  tO  drink." 

Mazukute     taberarenai.  \     **  It   is   too  nasty 

BeiMg'umMijf,  iB-nueaiabie,  J  tO  eat." 

"  Oh  !  yes,  one  can 
read  .it;  but  it  is 
extremely  difficult, 
owing  to  the  bad- 
ness of  the  hand- 
writing." 


Yomeru       ni  wa      yomemasn 


Memdabie        affair,        4§-readable 

ga, —  te         ga      warukute, 

aith^nghi    haud    (nom.)     beiug-bad^ 

koto  no  hoka       mendo       desu. 

eziraordiiUirUy  ir0nble»0me    it. 


Observe  the  repetition  of  the  verb  at  the  beginning  of 
this  last  example.  A  specially  strong  emphasis  is  often 
expressed  by  this  idiom,  for  which  see  IT  124  (p.  85). 

ON    TRANSITIVE    AND   INTRANSITIVE    PAIRS    OF    VERBS. 

IT  321.  In  English  the  same  word  commonly  does  duty  both 
as  a  transitive  and  as  an  intransitive  verb,  the  context 
alone  determining  in  which  of  these  acceptations  it  is  to 
be  understood.  Sometimes  the  passive  does  duty  for  the 
intransitive,  sometimes  altogether  different  words  are 
employed.  In  Japanese  the  transitive  and  intransitive 
meanings  are  almost  always  expressed  by  different  verbs 
derived  from  the  same  root,  thus  : 

INTRANSITIVE.  TRANSITIVE. 

aku,     1st.     conj.,     "to  akeru,  2nd.   conj.,    "to 

be  open  ;  "  open." 

hajimaru,  ist.  conj.,  "  to  hajimerUy 2nd.  conj., "  to 

begin ; "  begin." 


a04  •    THB  VERB. 

INTRANSITIVE.  TRANSITIVE. 

hirakerUf  2nd.  con].f^* to       hirakuy   ist.  conj.,  "to 
become  civilised  ;  "  civilise." 

kaeru,    ist.    conj.,    "to       kaesu,    ist.    conj.,    "to 
return ; "  return. 

^aJ&ur^rw, 2nd.conj.,"to       kakusUj  ist.  conj.,  "to 
hide  (oneself) ; "  hide." 

naoru,    ist.   conj.,    "to       naosu,    ist.   conj.,    "to 
get  well ;  "  cure." 

nobiru,  3rd.  conj.,   "to       nobasuy   ist.  conj.,  "to 
stretch ; "  stretch." 

oreru,    2nd.    conj.,  "to       oru,     ist.     conj.,     "to 
break;"  break." 

orirUf    3rd.    conj.,    "tq       orosUy    ist.    conj.,    "to 
descend ; "  lower." 

sorouy    ist.    conj.,    "to       soroeru,  2nd.  conj.,  "to 
match ; "  match." 

tasttkarUf  ist.  conj.,  "  to       tasukerUy  2nd.  conj.,  "  to 
be  saved  ;  "  save." 

tatsu,    ist.    conj.,    "to       tateru,  2nd.  conj.,  "to 
stand ;  "  set  up." 

yakerUf  2nd.  conj.,  "to       yakuy    ist.    conj.,    "to 
burn ; "  burn." 

N,  B.  Sometimes  only  one  of  the  pair  is  in  modern  use,  e.g., 
hosu,  "to  dry"  (ist.  conj.,  trans.),  the  corresponding  intransitive  of 
which,  hiru  (3rd.  conj.),  is  now  always  replaced  by  the  synonymous 
verb  kcwaku, 

IT  322.  The  derivation  of  these  pairs  of  verbs  from  a  com- 
mon root  follows  no  fixed  rule.  Practice  and  the  diction- 
ary are  the  only  guides.  At  the  same  time  we  may  note 
that: 

I,  Numbers  of  intransitives  of  the  ist.  conjugation  end 
in  arUf  thus : 


TRANSITIVES,   INTRANSITIVES,  *  AND   REFLECTIVES.       205 


—   »«'*     ^  ^   3  a 


H 


^^-t^?- 


o 
a  o  o  g  g- 

:^  N   O   3   g   5 
a  a  3  orq  22.  < 

I       I       I       •       I      G> 


P  ^       5  O  H^ 

O  2.  Qu  »" 

QTQ  rl.  tr.  rt 

^  3    <:  3 


aratamarUf     "  to  be  reformed." 
kakaru^  "  to  hang." 

kasanaru,       "to  be  piled  up," 
mazaru,  "  to  be  mixed." 

sadamaru,      "  to  be  fixed." 
todomarUy       "  to  stop." 
The  reason  for  such  verbs  in  aru  all  being  intransitives 
is  that  they  are  formed  by  the  agglutination  oi aru,  "to 
be,"  to  the  stem. 
H  323.  II.  Numbers  of  transitives  of  the  ist.  conjugation 
have  stems  ending  in  5,  thus  : 
kesu,  "  to  extinguish. 

kowasuy  **  to  break." 

mawasUj         "  to  turn." 
mddosUy  "  to  give  back." 

utsusUy  "  to  remove." 

wakasUy  "  to  boil." 

The  5  terminating  the  stem  of  such  verbs  is  probably, 
in  many  cases  at  least,  a  fragment  of  the  auxiliary  surUy 
"  to  do." 

REFLECTIVE    VERBS. 

U  324.  The  Japanese  language  has  no  reflective  verbs.  But 
we  may,  before  quitting  the  subject  of  intransitive  verbs, 
draw  attention  to  the  fact  that  many  Japanese  intransi- 
tives correspond  to  European  reflectives,  as,  for  in- 
stance, the  following : 

JAPANESE    INTRANSITIVES.  ENGLISH    REFLECTIVES. 

asobUy  "  to  amuse  oneself"  ("  to  play  "). 

hatarakuy  **  to  exert  oneself"  (**  to  work  "). 

kutabirerUy  "  to  tire  oneself"  (** to  get  tired "). 

shitagau,  **  to  conform  oneself"  ("  to  obey  "). 


3> 


8 


206  THE   VERB. 

Many  compounds  with   suru  likewise  correspond  to 

English  reflectives,  thus : 

jisatsu  suru,  "to   kill    oneself"    ("to    commit 

suicide  "). 

manzoku  surUy      "to  content  oneself"  ("to  be  con- 
tent"). 

shitaku  wo  suru,  "to   prepare    oneself"    ("to    get 
ready  "). 

taikutsu  suru,  "  to  bore  oneself  "  ("  to  get  bored  "). 
The  alternative  non-reflective  English  equivalents, 
which  we  have  given  for  each  of  the  above,  will  suffice  to 
show  how  easy  it  is  to  render  a  reflective  idea  in  some 
other  way,  and  how  natural  it  therefore  was  for  the  Jap- 
anese mind  not  to  hit  on  the  reflective  form  of  verbal 
expression. 

CAUSATIVE   VERBS. 

II  325.  Causative  verbs  are  derived  from  transitives  or  in- 

transitives  according  to  the  following  rule : — 

In  verbs  of  the  I  St.  conjugation,  add  seru,   in  verbs  of 

the  2nd.  and  3rd.  conjugations  add  saseru,  to  the  Negative 

Base,  thus : 

korosu,     "  to  kill ;  "      korosaseru,  "  to  cause  to  kill." 

•^  oku,  "to  put;"      okaserUy       "  to  cause  to  put." 

o 

"i   ,.  ,,^1  n    7-  J"  to  cause  to  know," 

^    shiru,  "to  know;     shtraseru,  \  .       .,.^.1,  ,» 

w  '  '  '   [i,e.,  "  to  tell. 

jomu,      "  to  read."     yomaseru,    "  to  cause  to  read." 

'(  ...     1.^  •     »»  ("to    cause    to    ob- 

f\eru,  "to obtain;    esaseru,      |tain,"i...,''togive." 

n3  L  ,  ,, ^        .    >»      ^  I.  ("to  cause  to  eat," 

g  l^taberu,     "  to  eat ;         tabesaseru,  |  .^^^^  ,,  ^^  ^^^^  „ 

•p  (abiru,  "  to  bathe  ;  "  abisaseru,  "  to  cause  to  bathe." 
"  •  ^  -L-  ("to  come  to  tsukisase-  ("to  cause  to  come 
j^^tsuktru,[     anend;"       r«,  I  to  an  end." 


CAUSATIVES.  ^^  207 

N.  B.    The  5  of  the  causative  termination  is  probably  a  fragment 
of  the  verb  sum,  **  to  do." 

The  chief  irregular  verbs  are  made  causative  as  follows : 
ktcru,        "  to  come ;  "  kosaseru,      "  to  cause  to  come." 
shinuru,  "  to  die  ;  "      shinaseru,     **  to  cause  to  die." 
surUy        "  to  do ;  "       saseru,  "  to  cause  to  do." 

The  polite  termination  masu  is  not  susceptible  of  the 
causative  form. 

IT  326.  An  alternative  method  of  forming  the  causative, 
which  belongs  to  the  Written  Language,  but  which  may 
still  occasionally  be  heard  from  the  lips  of  the  educated, 
is  to  agglutinate  shimeru  Sind  seshimeru  instead  of  seru 
and  saseru  respectively,  thus  :  korosashimeru,  ese shimeru, 
tsukiseshimeru. 

U  327.  All  causatives  are  conjugated  according  to  the  para- 
digm of  the  second  conjugation,  and  are,  like  other  verbs, 
susceptible  of  the  passive  voice,  thus : 
shiraserareru,  "to  be  caused  to  know,"  i,e.,  "  to  be  told." 
tabesaserareru,  "  to  be  caused  to  eat,"  i,e.,  "  to  be  fed." 
abisaserareru,     "  to  be  caused  to  bathe." 

In  practice,  however,  these  complicated  forms  are  rarely 
employed. 
ir  328.  The  Japanese  causative  includes  three  or  four  shades 
of  meaning.  Thus  koshiraesaseru,  the  causative  of  ^os  At - 
raeru,  **  to  prepare,"  must  be  rendered  sometimes  by  "  to 
cause  to  prepare,"  or  "to  make  prepare,"  sometimes  by  "to 
allow  to  prepare,"  or  "to  let  prepare."  The  fundamental 
idea  of  the  causative  is  that,  while  the  action  is  actually 
performed  by  one  person,  the  question  as  to  whether  it 
shall  be  performed  at  all  is  in  some  way  or  other  decided 
by  another  person. 


fioS 


THB  VBRB* 


IF  329.  In  causative  constructions,  the  noun  standing  for 
the  person  who  is  made  to  perform  the  action  is  marked 
by  the  postposition  ni ;  and  the  noun  standing  for  the 
person  or  thing  the  action  is  performed  upon  is  marked 
by  the  postposition  wo, 

Kiku  wo      ueki-yax 

ChrjfBmuihemtum^B  [accu5»\  gmrdeuer 

ni     sugu  ni  uesashtte 

bff,  4mmediatei§f  emHBiug^tp'pimut 

kudasai, 

€9udeBeen4* 


Please    make    the 
.gardener      plant      out 
the      chrysanthemums 
at  once." 


Daiku       wo         yonde,         \ 

Cmrpeuier  (accus.)    hmviug-eaiied,         '^  It  will  be  as  Well  tO 

futsugo     na       tokoro      wo       I  send  for  the  carpenter, 
ineoHveHieui       placeB    (accus.)    [and  get  him  to  repair 
naosaseru        ga        ii.  the  broken  places." 

eoHBiHgrio^epair  (notn.)  (is)  /fpod,    ) 
Ima   kozukai  ni  ii-tsukete, 

JVow     cootie      to  coattmBaudiug^ 

niwa    no        soji        wo     sase- 

gardeu   *b  ciernHBing  (accus.)  eoHBe'  f 

ru      ga         ii. 
te-4»  {nom.)  (is)  < 

Tsumari  sake  de  mo  kawasera-^ 

^Mi'iaBt  iiqttor  even  io^e^muBed- 

reru      no  desho  yo ! 

U^uff  rmet  wUhprohmhiw^e^    oh! 

(Example  of  passive  of  causative  from 
the  ♦*  Botan-Doro.Y' 

Henji     wo      kaite    iru    kara,  \ 

^UBWor  (accus.)  tpriiimg  am   heemmBet 

tsukai  no  mono     wo        matasht- 

MBOBBrnge  *B  perBOH  (accus.)  crnHBing-tO'  /"while       1 

te      kudasai,  I  answer." 

w4i4M  eomdeBcemd*  } 

N.  B,  The  gerunds  uesashtte  and  matashite  should,  strictly 
speaking,  be  uesasete  and  tnatasetCj  according  to  the  paradigm  of  the 
second  conjugation  to  which  all  causative  verbs  belong.  But  it  is 
very  usual  in  ordinary  conversation  thus  to  make  the  gerund  of  these 
verbs  follow  the  analogy  of  the  first  conjugation. 


'*  You  had  better  tell 
Uhe  coolie  to  come  and 
sweep  up  the  garden." 


"  I  tell  you  it  will 
end  by  his  getting 
bullied  into  treating 
the  other  fellow  to 
liquor." 


Please 
messenger 


tell    the 

to    wait 

write    an 


CAUSATIVES.  209 

IT  330.  Do  not  confound  transitive  verbs  of  the  first  conjuga- 
tion whose  stem  happens  to  end  in  s,  such  as  dasu,  "  to 
put  outside,"  "  to  send  out ;  '*  hayasu,  "  to  grow  '*  (trans.), 
with  causative  verbs  of  the  second  conjugation.     Thus : 


Detagatte  iru     kara,     >^ 

chin     wo        dashite  yatte 

pwg  (accus.)  pniiiHif^HiBide  aeuding 

kudasai, 

€0mde$€euti» 


**  The  pug  wants 
to  go  out ;  so  please 
let  it  out." 


Moto     kara    ima  no      yd       \ 

Origitt    rr^tm,     nmm     't    tatMrnu  "Did   (the  Japan- 

ni  kige  wo  hay  as  kite  ima- 1  ese)  formerly  grow 
4m,  hemrd  (accus.)  growing  «>«••€  jmustaches,  as  they 
shita  ka?  I  do  now?" 

IT  331.  It  is  true  that  we  have  been  obliged  to  use  the  causa- 
tive word  "  let  "  in  rendering  the  first  of  these  sentences 
into  English,  and  that  we  might  just  as  well  have  used  it 
in  the  second.  Nevertheless  the  distinction  has  some 
importance  in  Japanese.  It  would  be  a  great  mistake  to 
confound  kasu^  "to  lend,"  with  ^amas^r«,  "to  cause  to 
Borrow,"  just  as  it  would  be  a  great  mistake  to  confound 
tateru,  "  to  set  up,"  with  tafaseru  (from  tatsu),  "  to  cause 
to  stand  up."  In  the  case  of  "  lending  "  and  "  causing 
to  bprrow,"  the  difference  is  quite  clear  even  in  our 
English  idiom.  In  Japanese  it  is  so  in  all  cases.  Thus, 
tateru  means  "to  stand  some  dead  object  up,"  or  to 
"set  up"  as  king  some  puppet  with  no  will  of  his  own. 
Tataseru,  on  the  other  hand,  implies  that  the  person  who 
is  caused  to  stand  up  is  an  agent  possessed  of  indepen- 
dent volition.  TatesaserUy  the  causative  of  tateru ,  **  to 
set  up,"  would  mean  "to  cause  another  to  set  a  third 
person  up."    To  take  another  instance,  orosu  means  to 


210  THE  VERB. 

"  lower,**  i.e.,  "  to  launch,**  a  vessel  into  the  water,  while 
orisaseru  (causative  of  oriru,  "to  descend**)  would  be 
used,  let  us  say,  of  making  a  person  descend  the  side  of 
a  ravine  on  his  own  feet. 

IT  332.  Though  scrupulous  with  regard  to  the  above  point, 
the  Japanese  are  less  careful  than  ourselves  to  distinguish 
the  causative  from  the  ordinary  active  idiom.  Thus, 
where  we  should  say  "  I  am  going  to  have  my  hair  cut," 
they  prefer  to  say  simply  Kami^  hasami^  ni^  iktmasu*,  lit. 
"  (I)  go*  to3  cut*  (my)  hair^**  Even  in  English,  however, 
we  often  transgress  against  logical  exactness  in  precisely 
the  same  way.  Thus  we  are  apt  to  say  that  we  are 
building  a  house,  when  what  we  really  mean  is  that  we 
are  having  one  built  for  us  by  an  architect,  who  himself 
causes  it  to  be  built  by  the  masons. 

If  333.  Observe  that  though  Japanese,  as  stated  in  IT  327, 
p.  207,  has  passive  forms  of  the  causative,  it  has  no 
causative  forms  of  the  passive.  It  never  uses  sucji^* » 
idioms  as  the  English  "to  cause  to  be  arrested,*'  "to 
cause  to  be  altered,**  etc.,  but  always  employs  the  corres- 
ponding active  instead,  thus : 

Mihon     wo       motte   kosa-  f     "  We   will    let    some 

Smmpie  {accus.)  earrwing  *«v-  |  samples  be  brought,  and 

shtte,  sodan       J  then  consult  about  the 

itashimasho.     '  M'^.f"^'^-      More  hi,     -We 

f     \     ^..   .  will  cause  (some  one)  to  bring 

(we)  ^Ui^d^.  \somepatte)nsr  etc.  '  ^ 

This  is  but  an  additional  illustration  of  the  marked 
preference  which  the  Japanese  language  has  for  the  active 
over  the  passive  voice. 

N.  B.  Note  in  passing  how  motte  kuru,  **  to  bring,"  becomes  motte 
kosaseruj  "  to  cause  to  bring,"  the  second  verb  kuru  alone  suffering  a 
change  of  form.    All  such  cases  are  treated  in  the  same  manner. 


COMPOUND  VERBS.  211 


COMPOUND  VERBS. 


^  334.  Many  complex  verbal  ideas  are  expressed  In  Japanese 
by  means  of  compound  verbs,  which  replace  the  preposi- 
tional verbs  of  European  languages,  and  sometimes  cor- 
respond to  whole  phrases,  thus  : — 

tobi-agarUf  lit,  "jump-ascend,"  i.e.,  **  to  ascend  by 
jumping,"  "to jump  up." 

tobi-komu,  lit.  "jump-enter,"  i.e.j  "to  enter  by  jump- 
ing," "to jump  in." 

tobi'kosuy  "to  cross  by  jumping,"  i.e.,  "to  jump  across." 

kiri-korosu^  "  to  kill  by  cutting,"  i.e.,  "  to  cut  to  death." 

buchi-korosUf  "to  kill  by  beating,"  i.e.,  "to  beat  to 
death." 

buchi'taosUf  "  to  prostrate  by  beating,"  i.e.,  "  to  knock 
down." 

mi'tnawaru,  "to  go  round  by  looking,"  i.e.,  "to  look 
^'  round." 

mi'Otosu,  "  to  drop  in  looking,"  i.e.,  "  to  overlook." 

mi'SokonaUy  "to  mistake  in  looking,"  i.e.,  "  to  see 
wrong." 

kiki-sokonaUf  "to  mistake  in  hearing,"  i.e.,  "to  hear 
wrong. 

shini'sokonau,  "  to  mistake  in  dying,"  i.e.,  "  bardy  to 
escape  death." 

wake-aiaerUf  "to  divide  and  give,"  i.e.,  "to  give  in 
shares." 

IT  335.  The  following  are  further  examples    chosen  from 
among  many  scores  of  those  in  commonest  use  : 

de-aUf  "  to  meet  by  going  out,"  i.e.,  "  to  meet  out  of 
doors,"  "  to  encounter." 


ai2  THE  VERB* 

deki-agaru,  "  to  eventuate  and  rise,"  i.e.,  **  to  be  com- 
pleted." 

meguri-au,  **  to  meet  by  going  round,"  i.e.,  "  to  come 
across  after  many  adventures." 

tni'tsukeruy  "  to  fix  by  seeing,"  i.e.,  **  to  notice." 

moshi-awaserUy  " to  cause  to  meet  by  saying,"  i.e.,  "to 

arrange  beforehand ."       (^  waseru  is  ihe  causative  of  au,\ 

nori-okureru,  "  to  be  late  in  riding,"  i.e.,  "  to  be  too 

late"  (for  the  train,  etc.). 
omoi-dasu,  "  to  put  outside  by  thinking,"  i.e.,  **  to  call 

to  mind." 
toki-akasu,  **to  loosen  and  clear,'*  i.e.,  **to  explain." 
tsuki-ataruy  "to  reach  by  striking,"   i.e.   "to  strike 

against,"  "  to  come  to  the  end  "  (of  a  street). 
uke-au,  "  to  meet  by  receiving,"  i.e.,  "to  guarantee." 
uke-toru,  "  to  take  by  receiving,"  i.e.,  "  to  take  delivery 

of." 
uri'Sabaku,  "  to  manage  by  selling,"  i.e.,  "  to  sell  off." 

II  336.  Some  verbs  recur  with  special  frequency  in  the 
character  of  second  member  of  a  compound ;  thus  (to 
mention  only  three  or  four) : 

Dasu  denotes  the  action  of  coming  out,  taking  out  or 
beginning,  as  in  hashiri-dasu,  "  to  run  out ; "  tori-dasu, 
" to  take  out ;"  naki-dasu,  " to  begin  to  cry." 

N.  B,  Dasu  is  properly  a  transitive  verb,  corresponding  to  the 
intransitive  dend,  **  to  come  out"  Its  intransitive  use  in  such  com- 
pounds as  haskiri-dasu  is  therefore  somewhat  anomalous,  but  it  is 
sanctioned  by  usage. 

Kakaru  shows  that  the  action  denoted  by  the  chief 
verb  is  about  to  commence,  or  that  it  is  accidental,  as  in 
naori'kakaru,  "to  be  on  the  road  to  recovery;"  tori- 
kakarUf  "  to  happen  to  i^ass  by." 


7 


COMPOUND   VtltBS.  tli 


Kakeru,  generally  shows  that  the  action  has  been  begun 
and  then  abandoned,  as  in  shi-kakeru,  **  to  leave  half 
done ; "  hanashi-kakeru,  "  to  break  off  in  the  middle  of 
saying  something/* 

Komu  corresponds  to  the  English  word  **  in,"  as  in 
tobi'komUy  "  to  jump  in  ; ''  furi-komu,  "  to  come  in  "  (said 
of  rain  or  snow  coming  into  the  house). 

KirUj  "  to  cut,"  indicates  totality,  as  in  kai-kiru,  "  to 
purchase  the  whole  "  (of  a  consignment,  etc.) ;  kari-kiru, 
" to  hire  the  whole "  (of  a  house,  etc.);  shime-kiru,  **to 
close  up  "  (e.g.  a  part  of  a  building  undergoing  repairs). 

IF  337.  Occasionally  three  verbs  are  compounded  together, 
as  moshuage-kaneruy  a  very  respectful  way  of  expressing 
"  to  hesitate  to  say."  It  is  compounded  of  mo5w,  "  to 
say ;  "  ageru,  **  to  lift  up  ;  "  and  kaneru,  "  to  be  unable." 

IT  338.  Compound  verbs,  like  simple  ones,  are  susceptible 
of  taking  the  negative,  passive,  potential  and  causative 
sufExes,  as  : 

buchi-faosanakatta,  **  did  not  knock  down  ;  " 
buchi-taosenakatta,  "  could  not  knock  down  ;  " 
buchi4aosaretey         "  being  knocked  down  ;  " 
buchi'taosaserUy        "  to  cause  to  knock  down  ; " 
all  from  the  verb  buchi-taosu,  **  to  knock  down." 

^^  339*  As  shown  by  the  examples  we  have  given,  the  first 
member  of  a  compound  verb  is  put  in  the  indefinite 
form,  while  the  second  member  alone  is  conjugated 
through  the  various  moods  and  tenses.  The  first  member 
generally  stands  in  an  adverbial  relation  to  the  second. 
Thus  in  buchi-korosu,  **  to  beat  to  death,"  the  first  menjber 
buchi  shows  the  manner  of  action  of  the  second  member 
korosu.     In  some  few  cases,,  however,  the  signification 


214 


THE  VERB. 


of  the  two  members  of  the  compound  is  co-ordinat- 
ed, for  instance  in  iki-kaeru^  *<to  go  and  come  back 
again." 

ir  340.  The  Japanese  language  makes  such  lavish  use  of 
compound  verbs,  that  it  is  essential  for  him  who  would 
speak  idiomatically  to  get  into  the  habit  of  employing 
them  in  preference  to  simple  verbs  wherever  possible. 
Here  are  a  few  examples  of  their  use : — 


Filto  omoi-dashimashita, 
Aal  hahi-sohonaimashita, 
Ki ki -so konai    des u . 

Bem^miBimhe    (it)  U. 


V 


**  It  has  just  occurred 
me." 


)      "  Oh  1  I  have  made  a 
J  mistake  (in  writing).'* 

)      "You     have    heard 
J  wrong." 


Chodo  Watakitshi     ga 

XuMi  M             [nom,) 

de-kakeru  tokoro      deshita.'  [point  of  going  out," 

g0'omi  place            wom,       ' 


I      "I  was  just  on  the 


Tsukai       ga    iki-chigai  ni] 

j^eBBengerB  (nom.)  g^'diirer  io\   " The two messengers 
narimashita.  I  crossed  each  other." 

hecmme. 


Kono    uchi    kara    ii      no  \      « j     ^ju   select   the 
t^Mb    4HBiderrom,  go0d pubbL^^       ^^^^      among 

J  these." 


wo        eri-dashimasho 
(accus.)  €h90BettUi»pwi'9ut, 


Furi'dashite  kita 

JFatt^b  egiuwiHg        hat'com  e 

kara,       deru         no         wo 

becauBC,  going^ui  action  (accus.) 

mi-awasemasho. 
§ee'^UI'pr0bakiweanBe»to»meei, 


\ 

*<  As  it  has  come  on 
40  rain,  I  think  I  will 
put  off  my  walk." 


EQUIVALENTS  OF  THE  VERB   «*  TO  BE."  215 

M6    hltotsu    ii'tsukeru   koto\ 

son     PHe         Bat^mx     ihiug       <*  I     have     another 

ga      aru       kara,       ima       no  order   to   give   to    the 

{nom,)     u      heemuBe,     u^      _  I'l messenger     who     has 

tsukat  wo  yobt-h^^t     sFarted    off;    so 

kayashite  kudasai.  please  call  him  back. 

hawiHg'giveu'^aeh  eoudeMceud*      J 

N,  B.  With  regard  to  the  gerund  kayashite  in  this  last  example, 
observe  that  the  verb  is  properly  kaesu  (compare  kaeru,  **to  go  back"); 
but  the  corruption  kayasu  is  in  common  Colloquial  use. 

THE    EQUIVALENTS   OF    THE    VERB    **  TO   BE." 

5r  341.  The  Student  who  is  perplexed  by  the  variety  of 
manners  in  which  the  Japanese  language  expresses  the 
sense  of  our  substantive  verb  "  to  be,"  should  note  the 
following  remarks : — 

Aru,  atta,  aro,  etc!,  means  properly  **  there  is,"  "there 
was,"  **  there  perhaps  will  be,"  but  is  often  best  trans- 
lated by  "  I  (you,  etc.)  have,"  the  Japanese  nominative 
becoming  the  English  objective  case,  as : 

Kane  ga  aru.  )      ,,  t  i.  ♦» 

m.new         (nom,)       (there)i..  ]     ^^  I  have  some  money. 

By  the  addition  of  masu,  as  arimasu,  arimashtta,  ari- 
masho,  the  expression  is  made  more  polite.  Gozaimasu, 
gozaimashlta,  gozaimasho  (conf.  IF  270)  are  more  polite 
still,  but  the  signification  is  exactly  the  same. 

JV.  B,  Of  course  there  may  be,  and  are,  cases  in  which  a  free  and 
idiomatic  English  rendering  will  require  "is**  or  **was,**  instead  of 
**  there  is  "  or  **  there  was  "  as  the  equivalent  of  aruj  arimasu^  gozai- 
mas&f  etc.  But  the  proper  signification  of  the  Japanese  itself  is 
always  "there  is,*'  "there  was,**  etc.,  except  in  the  case  mentioned 
in  the  next  paragraph. 

1i  342.  However,  when  combined  with  an  adjective,  the 
verb  gozaimasu  means  simply  **  to  be,"  thus. : 


2X6  THE  VERB* 

Kono  mizu   wa,   taiken  ni  karu 
gozaimasu, 

(it)  49. 


"This   water   is 
deliciously  soft." 


The  certain  present  tense  of  aru  and  of  arimasu  is 
rarely,  if  ever,  thus  used  with  the  w  or  o  form  of  adjectives 
(see  p.  117  and  p.  121),  as  the  adjective  includes  in  itself 
the  idea  of  the  verb  "to  be*"  Thus  the  less  polite 
equivalent  of  the  above  sentence  would  be  Kono  mizu  wa, 
taihen  ni  karui.  In  the  other  tenses,  however,  the  verb 
aru  appears  as  an  agglutinated  suffix,  as  explained  in  IF 
186  (p.  124),  and  shown  in  the  paradigm  on  p.  125  ;  thus 
karukmiim,  "  was  light ;  "  karukmro,  "  is  or  will  probably  be 
light,"  etc. 

IT  343.  De  aru,  de  atta,  de  aro,  etc.     (familiar), 

De  arimasu,  de  arimashlta,  de  arimasho,  etc.  (rather 
polite), 

De  gozaimasu,  de  gozaimashita,  de  gozaimash6,  etc. 
(truly  polite),  are  the  simple  verb  "to  be "  without 
"there," — that  is  to  say  they  mean  "I  am,"  "he,  she, 
or  it  is,"  "  we  are,"  "you  are,"  "they  are,"  and  so  on 
through  all  the  other  tenses.  Da  is  a  corruption  of  de 
aru  ;  datta  and  daro  are  corruptions  of  de  atta  and  de  aro, 
with  which  they  exactly  agree  in  meaning.  (Conf.  end 
of  1;  88,  p.  62.)  These  forms  might  with  propriety  be 
written  d'a,  d'atta,  and  d*ar6,  in  order  the  more  clearly 
to  mark  their  composite  origin. 

Kore     wa      nan  de  aru  ? )      "  What  is  this  ?  " 
VhU  OM'for,  w9hai       i§  (it)  ?  I  (More  often  Kore  wa  nan  da  ?) 

mo  de  S^^i^^  }     .<  It  is  probably  a  lie."    ' 


EQUIVALENTS   OF    THE    VERB    "TO    BE."  21/ 


Tokaido  kara  mawatte  itta  ho  \ 

VSkaiti0     hff     turuiMg  ment'aide 

ga  kaette   .    toku      daro. 

{nom,)   epHtrarim4$e  proMi     wiii* 

(Politely,  de  gozaimasho,) 


"  Though  you 

mightn't  think  so,  it 
will  probably  be 
shorter  to  go  round 
by  the  T6kaid6." 


IF  344.  Desii,  deshtta,  and  desho  have  the  same  significa- 
tion respectively  as  de  gozaimasu,  de  gozaimashita,  and 
de  gozaimasho,  of  which  they  are  contractions.  Thus  the 
second  and  third  examples  in  the  preceding  paragraph 
might  equally  well  read  thus : 
U$o  desho, 

Tdkaido  kara  mawatte  iita  hO  ga  kaette  toku  desho, 
IT  345.  Iru  (3rd.  conj.,  stem  i)  and  oru  (ist.  conj.,  stem  ori) 
signify  properly  "to  dwell,"  hence  "to  live,"  "to  be" 
(in  a  certain  place).  Notwithstanding  their  original 
signification,  which  would  seem  to  limit  their  application 
to  living  creatures,  they  are  now  also  used  in  speaking 
of  inanimate  beings.  Their  chief  use  is  as  auxiliaries 
*  (see  p.  186—7). 

^  346.  Irassharu  and  o  ide  nasaru  are  honorific  synonyms 
of  iru  "to  be,"  and  of  several  other  verbs,  as  will  be 
shown  in  If  405. 

IT  347.  ya,  as  a  .  verb,  .  is  not  heard  from  the  lips  of 
T6ky6  speakers.  But  in  the  Colloquial  of  KyOto,  in  the 
language  of  the  stage,  and  frequently  in  printed  Colloqui- 
al, it  takes  the  place  of  da.  It  must  not  be  confounded 
with  ja,  the  T6ky6  contracted  form  of  the  two  postposi- 
tions de  wa,  as  in  Kore  ja  nai  for  Kore  de  wa  nai,  "  It  is 
not  this." 

IT  348.  Naru,  "  to  be,"  not  to  be  confounded  with  naru,  "  to 
become,"  belongs  almost  entirely  to  Jhe  Written  Language. 


2l8  THE    VERB. 

We  Still  find,  however,  in  common  use  the  form  naraba 
explained  on  p.  iSo,  and  such  expressions  as  isogana- 
kereba^  narimasen^,  lit.  **  it-is-not*  (i.e.,  it  won't  do) 
if-one-hurries-not,"  i.e.,  "you  must  make  haste." 

H  349.  Sum,  properly  "  to  do,"  sometimes  passes  over  into 
the  sense  of  **  to  be."     See  If  356  and  IT  357. 

THE   VERB   SurU. 

-IF  350.  No  verb  recurs  more  constantly  in  Japanese  than 
the  irregular  verb  surUy  the  paradigm  of  which  has  been 
given  on  p.  155,  and  whose  primary  signification  is  **to 
*  do,"  "  to  make,"  the  French  /aire.  Sometimes  it  stands 
independently  in  its  proper  sense  of  doing  or  making,  the 
noun  governed  by  it  taking  the  accusative  postposition 
WO9  as  usual  with  transitive  verbs,  thus : — 
Ikusa  wo  sum.  "  To  make  war." 

Shttaku  wo  suru,  '  **  To  make  preparations." 

Ryori  wo  suru,  **  To  cook  "  (/aire  la  cuisine), 

[**  To  make  obstruction,"  i,e,y 
'  To  be  in  the  way." 

"To  make  imitation,"  "to 
imitate,"  also  simply  "  to 
do  "  (in  a  bad  sense). 

So  shite,  "Having  done  so;"  "and 

then." 

Omae  dd  shimasu  ?  "  What  are  you  doing?  " 

(Famil.) 

Compare  also  such  adjectival  and  adverbial  expressions 

as  chan^  to*  shita^,  lit.  "  did*  that*  quiet*,"  i.e.,  simply 

** quiet;'* sube-sube^ shite*,  lit.  " having-done*  smooth^"  i.e., 

simply  " smoothly"  {ckan  SiXidsube-sube are onomatopes). 


f"' 
jfatna  wo  sum,  \^, 


Mane  wo  suru. 


SURU. 


219 


D"  351.  More  often  suru  sinks  into  being  a  mere  suffix  serv- 
ing to  verbalise  nouns.  Of  verbs  thus  formed  the  modern 
language  contains  an  epormous  number.  The  following 
are  a  few  specimens : 


aisuru,        **  to  love  ;'*       from  at,        **  love,*' 
chakusurUf  **  to  arrive ;"       „     chaku,  "  arrival, 
hisurUy        **  to  compare  ;** 
jisurUy  "to  refuse;*' 

kessuru,       "  to  decide  ;*' 
sassurUf       "  to  guess  ;** 


hiy        "comparison. 
ji,         "  refusal.** 
ketsUy   "decision.** 
satsu,  "  a  guess." 


"5 


anshin  sum,  "  to  feel  at  ease  ;*'  from  anshin,        i!i<,rf  " 

„    choai, 


chdai  suru,     "  to  love  ;*'  „ 

,    .*  "to  be(come) 

kenkwa  suru,  "  to  quarrel  ;**  „ 

roshi  suru,     "  to  die  in  prison  ;*'  „ 
tochaku  suru, "  to  arrive  ;**  ^         .  ,» 


heart.* 
"love.** 


*haikwa, 


"  civilisa- 


tion. 

kenkwa,  "  a  quarrel.** 

rd,  "  prison,**  and  shi, 
"death.** 

tochaku,  "arrival.** 


N*  B.  It  seems  to  have  become  usual  among  transliterators 
to  attach  suru  to  the  preceding  noun  (e.g.  aisuruy  chakisuru)  when 
this  noun  consists  of  a  single  Chinese  character,  and  to  write  it 
separately  (e.g.  anshin  suru,  chdai  suru)  when  the  noun  consists  of 
■two  Chinese  characters.  There  is  nothing  to  object  to  in  this 
practically  convenient  distinction. 

H  352.  When  the  noun  is  a  monosyllable,  the  verb  formed 
from  it  by  means  of  suru  is  sometimes  treated  as  if  it  be- 
longed to  the  first  regular  conjugation,  thus  jisanai,  "  he 
does  not  refuse  **  (as  if  from  jisu),  instead  of  jtshinai. 
But  this  is  incorrect  and  somewhat  vulgar. 


2.0 

I 


220  THE   VBKB. 

^  353.  When  the  noun  is  a  monosyllable  ending  ih  n,  suru 
generally  changes  to  zuru,  and  thence  to  jiru,  "which  latter 
is  conjugated  regularly  according  to  the  paradigm  of  the 
third  conjugation.  This  sometimes  happens  even  when 
the  final  letter  is  not  «,  thus  : 

anjiru,    **  to  be  anxious  ;"  from  aw,     "  opinion."     V    25 
djirUy      "  to  correspond ;"     „      0,       "correspond 

ence." 

row;t>«,  " to  argue ;"  „      row,   "argument." 

sowjerM,  ** to  be  injured  ;"      „      sow,    "injury." 

IT  354.  The  above  examples  are  all  of  Chinese  words.  Sum 
is  less  frequently  attached  to  words  of  native  Japanese 
origin.  The  following  and  several  others  are,  however, 
in  common  use ; 

agari-sagari  suru,  "to  go  up  and  down ;"  from:  the 
indefinite  forms  used  substantively  oiagaru^  "  to  ascend," 
•and  sagarUy  "  to  descend." 

kossurUf  "  to  wish ;"  from  horiy  an  archaic  word  expres- 
sive of  desire. 

kega  sum,  "to  be  wounded  ;"  from  kega^  " a  wound." 

^  355*  There  are  a  few  instances  of  jiru  (for  suru)  being 
agglutinated  to  an  adjective  stem,  as : 

karonjiru,  "to  think  lightly  of;"  from  karui,  "light." 
omonjirUy  "to  esteem;"  „     omoi,   "heavy." 

But  these  words  sound  bookish,  and  are  not  much  used 
in  genuine  Colloquial. 

IT  356.  Just  as  in  French  the  expression/air^  ckaud  does  not 
mean  "  to  make  hot/'  but  "to  be  hot,"  so  also  in  Japan- 
ese the  verb  resulting  from  the  combination •  of  skrz*  with 
a  noun  is  not  necessarily  a  transitive  verb.     It  taay  in- 


SURU.  221 

.  deed  be  transitive ;  but  sometimes  it  is  intransitive,  and 
sometimes  it  corresponds  to  an  English  passive,  as  vari- 
ously illustrated  in  the  examples  g^ven  in  the  preceding 
paragraphs.  In  a  few  cases,  e.g.,  shojiru  (for  shosuru),  "to 
produce  '*  or  **  to  be  produced,"  it  has  a  double  accept- 
ation. Usage  is  the  sole  arbiter  in  each  case.  When 
usage  sanctions  the  transitive  use,  then  the  corresponding 

'  passive  is  obtained  by  substituting  for  sum  its  passive  se- 
rareru  or  sareru,  thus  : 

aisurUy  "  to  love  ;"    aiserarerUy        "  to  be  loved." 

chochaku  sum,  "  to  thrash;"  ^*«^*«*«  *«'■«-/"  ^°     g^t      a 
'  *        reru^  (     thrashmg. 

omonjiru,  "  to  esteem;"  omonjirareru ,  j    *^         .  »  ^^' 

^  357-  Sometimes  $urUy  when  used  independently,  takes  ga 
instead  of  wo.     It  then  signifies  "  to  be,"  as  in 

Oto  ga  suruy     <*  There  is  a  noise." 

ZutsUga  surUy  *<  There  is  a  headache,"  i.e.,  "  I  have  a 
headache."  f 

IT  358.  Construed  with  the  particle  to,  suru  means  **  to  be 
about  to,"  thus : 

Iko  to  shite,  "  Being  about  tct  go.!'  .. 

Construed  with  the  particle  ni;  sj^^.'SstTnstii^:iii0m, 
which  the  following  sentence  may  serve  to.  illustrate : 

Kaette  kara  no  koto  ni  shiyo,  f    "I  will  leave  it  till 

Mtniug^reimrmed  afiwr  '«  ihimg[  l#  t^iii^d:  (after  my  return." 

VERBS    LIABLE    TO   BE    MISTAKEN    FOR   EACH    OTHER. 

IF  359.  Foreign  students  of  Japanese  are  often  naturally  per- 
plexed by  the  fact  that  the  stems  of  many  verbs  of  the  ist. 
conjugation  end  in  r,  while  two  of  the  "  bases  "  (the  cer- 


222  THE   VERB. 

tain  present  and  the  conditional  base)  of  verbs  of  the  2nd. 
and  3rd.  conjugations  always  contain  an  r.  For  instance, 
is  shaberu,  "  to  chatter,"  of  the  ist.  conjugation  or  of  the 
2nd*  ?  It  is  of  the  ist.,  because  the  stem  is  shabevy  the 
indefinite  form  shaberi,  and  the  negative  base  shabera. 
On  th  other  hand,  tsumerUy  "to  pack,"  is  of  the  2nd.  con- 
jugation, the  letter  r  belonging  in  this  case,  not  to  the 
stem,  but  to  the  termination.  Similarly  chir-u,  **  to  fall  ** 
(like  faded  flowers),  is  of  the  ist.  conjugation,  while  «trw, 
**  to  boil,"  is  of  the  3rd.  Especially  perplexing  are  such 
pairs  of  verbs  as  her-u  (ist.  conj.),  "to  diminish,"  and  he- 
ru  (2nd.  conj.),  "to  pass  through;  kir-u  (ist.  conj.),  "to 
cut,"  and  ki-ru  (3rd.  conj.),  "  to  wear."  Neither  is  it  easy 
at  first  sight  to  distinguish  correctly  all  the  forms  of,  say, 
todomar-u,  the  intransitive  verb  "  to  stop,"  from  those  of 
todome-rUy  the  corresponding  transitive  verb  "to  stop.*' 
Practice  and  the  dictionary  are  the  only  guides  in  this 
matter. 
IT  360.  The  comparative  paradigm  on  the  next  page  will 
serve  to  illustrate  the  differences  obtaining,  in  the  various 
moods  and  tenses,  between  pairs  or  sets  of  like-sounding 
verbs,  such  as  are  those  above-mentioned.  The  three 
verbs  given  in  it  are  all  in  daily  Colloquial  use.  They  are  : 
iru,  ist.  conj.,  stem  ir;  "to  go  in,"  used  chiefly  in  the 
phrase  ki  ni  irUy  "  to  go  into  one's  mind,"  i.e.,  "  to  please, 
or  be  agreeable  to,  one." 
ireniy  2nd.  conj.,  stem  ir ;  "  to  put  in." 
irUy  3rd.  conj.,  stem  i ;  "  to  dwell,"  "  to  be." 
IrUy  "to  go  in,"  and  irerUy  "to  put  in,"  are  related  to 
each  other  as  respectively  the  intransitive  and  transitive 
forms  of  the  same  verb.  The  resemblance  of  these  two 
to  iruy. "  to  be,"  is  merely  fortuitous. 


VERBS    UABLE    TO   BR   CONFOUNDED. 


223 


Oo 


2« 


=  > 

(ji-i 

^=   O 

-go* 


gC5 


fa 

Si 

8*  o 
^^ 

.S  e 

<tf«C 

t:" 


Is?  2 

O   «>     4) 


CO 


M  c«  en  ^ 


.21    . 
.|.'§.S.-Sl 


illlill.' 


>;.>» 


4 


-2 


<* 

Hi 


5  V        !»» 


is 

2ei 


WKV.K>kKV)<>ka>.KV>ki 


:cf  c 


If       I 


I   „  i 


*g  its  12:5  s  i<5:§ 

?.^  gold's  2  §«g."-5S^ 


V  >»  j» 


01? 

I'll 


1^ 

=*  2  I 

Sis 


3  9 

e  e  «  (u    S 


60       n 


o    o     -3 

§  §  § 

U   U     O 


VERBS  USED  AS  OTHER  PARTS  OF  SPEECH. 

IT  362.  Some  few  verbs,  mostly  in  the  gerundial  form,  are 
used  as  postpositions,  e.g., 

motte,  "with,"  **by  means  of;"  from  motsu  "to  hold." 


224  THB   VERB. 

ni  yottCy  **  owing  to ;"  from  yortty  "  to  rely." 
^  363*  Others   correspond   to   English   adverbs,    adverbial 
phrases  or  conjunctions,  thus : 

amari,  "too  (much)  ;*'  indef.  form  otamarUf  "to  exceed." 

hajimete,  "for  the  first  time,")  gerund  oihajimeru,  "to 
"  never  before."  J      begin  "  (trans.). 

kaettey  "  contrary  to  what  one  might  expect ;"  gerund 
o£  kaerUy  "  to  return  "  (intrans.). 

kiri  (vulg.  kkiri),  used  as  a  suffix  meaning  "  only,"  e.g. 
sore-kirif  "  only  that ;"  indef.  form  of  kiru,  "  to  cut." 

nokorazuy  "  without  excep- 1  negative  gerund  of  nokoru^ 
tion,"  "  all."  )      "  to  remain." 

sayo nara^  "  good-bye,"  lit.  "if  that)  «ara(6a),  condition- 
be  so,  (we  shall  meet  again.)"    )     al  oinarUy  **tobe." 

semete,  "  at  least,"  "at  most;"  gerund  of  sem^ri*,  "to 
treat  with  rigour." 

shiite,  "urgently;"  gerund  of  shiiru,  "to  urge." 

50  shite,  "  and    then," )  lit.  "having  done  so,"  shite  being 
"  and  "  (after  verbs),  j      the  gerund  o£suru,  "to  do." 

subete,  "  altogether,"  "  all."  jS^[;j';*^„°f.f'' **''"'  " '°  ""'*^ 

tatoeba,  "for instance;"  condit.  oitatoeru,  "to  compare." 

11  364.  The  present  tense  is  in  some  few  cases  doubled  and 
used  adverbially,  thus : 

kaesu'gaesuy  "  over  and  over  again  ;"  from  kaesu,  "  to 
send  back." 

1i  365.  It  has  already  been  shown  in  p.  137  how  Japanese 
verbs,  and  phrases  formed  from  verbs,  frequj^ly  replace 
the  adjectives  of  European  languages. 


CHAPTER    X. 


THE    ADVERB,    INTERJECTION,   AND    CONJUNCTION. 
SPECIAL   PHRASEOLOGY. 

IT  366.  Japanese  has  few  if  any  true  adverbs.  Almost  all 
the  words  corresponding  to  our  adverbs  prove,  on  exami- 
nation, to  be  stragglers  from  the  other  parts  of  speech. 
It  will,  however,  afford  some  insight  into  the  nature  of 
the  language,  and  be  practically  useful  to  students,  to 
glance  at  the  various  expedients  by  which  the  necessity 
for  adverbs  is  obviated. 

IT  367.  The  indefinite  forms  in  ku  of  adjectives  are  used 
adverbially,  and  correspond  for  the  most  part  to  English 
adverbs  in  **  ly,"  although,  as  has  been  explained  in  IF 
180 — 181  (pp.  iig — 120),  such  is  not  their  original  force, 
nor  indeed  their  invariable  force  even  at  the  present  day : — 


Zosa      —  naku  deki- 

mmeutiff    Moi'heiug,       (it)  evew 

masu, 

imaiet. 


"  It   can    easily  be 
done." 


vy        Atarashiku  tsukurimashita.     )      "  It  has  been  newly 

^  JTewiw  Mave-made.  [builti" 

Kitanarashlku^  miemasu*.  It  looks*  dirt(il)y*. 

N.  B..  There  are  a  few  adjectives  which  are  no  longer  used  Col- 
loquially, except  in  the  ku  form  corresponding  to  our  adverbs,  e.g., 
kotogotokUf  "  altogether ;  *'  mattaku^  **  quite." 

^F  368.  Japanese    nouns    often    correspond     to      European 
adverbs,  e.g.  kon-nichi,  lit.  <*this  day;"  i.e.,  "to-day;" 


226 


THE   ADVERB. 


jUbun,  lit.  **ten  parts,"  i.e.,  "plenty,"  ** exceedingly ;" 
okata,  lit.  **  great  side,"  i.e.,  "mostly;"  koko,  lit.  "this" 
(ist.  ko)y  "  place  "  (2nd.  ko),  i.e.,  "  here."  Words  of  this 
class  retain  their  substantive  character  so  completely,  that 
the  equivalents  of  such  particles  as  "  of,"  "at,"  "from," 
etc., — in  fact  the  postpositions, — can  be  construed  with 
them  as  readily  as  with  any  other  substantives,  thus : 


Doko  made        o  ide  ni 

narimasu  ? 
beeotmet  f 

Asuko  kara  saki    wa,     ji-' 

Vhere     fromf  fromt  ma^far^  tfm- 

ki         desu. 

I  ma     wa       te-suki      de 

JYow  at' far 9  hauS^mtpiff 

gozatmasu. 


*  How   far  are   you 
■going  ?"• 

"  It  is  no  distance  on 
from  there  to  the  next 
place." 


"  I  am  at  leisure  just 
now." 


Itsu  no    ma    ni    ka   tsuki 

If^eM  '«  iutervat  4m      ff      §m00u 

ga    agarimashita, 
(nom,)        Mag'Tiseu, 

Itsumo  no  kimono  de  yoro- 
tMiwawB   of   eioih€9    hff     (is) 

shii, 

good* 

Ato  de,  koko   wo        soji 

^fier  *y,  here  (accus,)   cteauiug 

shite    kudasai. 

doing  €omde$€ead* 


"The  moon  has  risen 
without  our  noticing 
when  it  rose." 

"  My  ordinary  clothes 
•will  do  quite  well." 

(Said  to  one^s  own  servant,) 

"  Please  clean  this 
room  afterwards." 

(Said  to  the  servant  at  a 
hotel.) 


Sofina  ni  sawaija  \ 

So    at-fortmahiug-a-^owtA      '*  ^  say  !  you  mustn't 
ikenai    yo  !  [make  such  a  row." 

i»'UO»gOt   ok!  ) 

IT  369.  Some  nouns  receive  an  adverbial  tinge  by  means  of 
reduplication,  as ; 


MISCELLANEOUS   REMARKS   ON  ADVERBS.  227 

hd'bo,  **  everywhere ;  "  from  ho,  "  side,"  **  direction." 
naka-naka,  **very,"  **more  than  you  might  think;" 
from  nakUf  **  inside." 

tabi-tabi,'  ^^ohen;"  from  tabi,    "a   timt  *'  {une  fois). 

toki'dokiy  "  sometimes ; "  from  toki,  **.time  "  {le  temps). 

tokorO'dokorOy    "  here  and   there ; "   from    tokorOy   **  a 

place." 

IT  370.  There  are  also  many  words  which  are  nouns 
etymologically  speaking,  but  which  are  always  or  almost 
always  used  as  adverbs,  and  which  mostly  take  the  post- 
position ni,  as  jiki  or  jiki  ni,  <*  immediately ;  "  sude  ni, 
**  already  ;  "  sugu  or  sugu  ni,  **  directly." 

IF  371.  Phonetic  decay  has  considerably  altered  some  of 
these  words  in  their  passage  from  other  parts  of  speech 
to  the  state  of  adverbs.  Thus  do?*'  **  how?  "  is  a  cor- 
ruption of  dono  yd?  "  what  manner  ?  "  Similarly  ko,  "  in 
this  way,"  "  thus  ;  "  50,  or  sayo,  **  in  that  way ;  "  and  a, 
**in  that  way,"  are  derived  from  kono  yd,  sono  yd  and 
ano  yd. 

II  372.-  Many  words  which  we  are  obliged  to  translate  by 
adverbs  or  adverbial  phrases  are  the  gerunds  of  verbs,  as 
explained  in  If  362 — 3  (pp.  223 — 4).  How  truly  words  of 
this  class  retain  their  verbal  force  even  at  the  present  day, 
may  be  seen  from  the  use  of  such  phrases  as  hitori^  mo^ 
nokorazu^f  "all  without  exception,"  lit.  "Even*  one- 
person^  remaining-not'  (behind)." 

ir  373.  The  following  are  some  of  the  chief  Japanese  words 
corresponding  to  our  adverbs,  not  already  mentioned  in 
this  chapter.  A  few  more  will  be  found  in  the  paradigm 
on  p.  50 : — 


228 


THE   ADVERB. 


**  a  little," 
*'  slightly." 


bakari,  "  about,"  "  only." 

chi{t)to,' 

chottOy 

choitOf 

dakcy  "only,"  "about," 
"as as.". 

hanahada,  "very." 

ikaga  ?  "  how  ?" 

iku  bun  ■  kUf       "  rather," 

"  more  or  less." 
itsudemOj  "always;"  with 

a  negative  verb,  "never." 

mUy  "quite"  (always  com- 
bined with  the  follow- 
ing adjective,  whose 
initial  consonant  is 
doubled,  as  makkurai, 
"  pitch-dark,"  from  ku- 
rai,  "dark"). 

mada,  "still;"  with  a  nega- 
tive verb,  "  not  yet." 
mata,  "again." 
mazu,  "  in  the  first  place," 

"  well !  "    (In  this  sense 
often  abbrev.  to  ma.) 
moy    "  already  ;  "    with  a 
negative  verb,  "no more." 


inohaya,  same  as  mo. 

motto,  "more"  (adverb). 

narutake,  "as. ..as  possi- 
ble;" "  if  possible." 

naze  ?  "why  .5* 

sate,  "well!" 

shosen,  "after  all." 

sukoshi,  "a  little." 

tada  (vulgarly  and  wnpha- 
tically  tatta),  "  merely," 
"  nothing  but." 

tadaima,  "  immediately  " 
(from  tada  and  ima, 
"now"). 

taiso,  "  much,"  "  very." 

takusan,  same  as  taiso. 

yahari  (emphatically  yap- 
pari),  "also." 

yohodo  (emphatically  yop- 
podo),  "  very." 

zehi,  "positively"  (from 
Chinese  ze,  "  good,"  and 
hi,^^  bad,"  like  our  phrase 
"  for  better  for  worse"). 

zuibun,  "a  good  deal," 
"  pretty  "  (as  in  "  pretty 
tired  "). 


IF  374.  It  may  seem  strange  that  the  foregoing  list  should 
contain  no  equivalent  for  our  adverbs  of  affirmation  and 
negation,  "  yes  "  and  "  no."  The  reason  is  that  there  are 
no  words  exactly  corresponding  to  our  "  yes"  and  "  no  "  in 
Japanese.  There  is,  it  is  true,  a  word  ie  which  means  "  no." 
But  it  is  little  used,  except  when  the  denial  is  an  indignant 
one.    The  word  he  I  hei  I  or  hai  /  which  may  sometimes  be 


"YES       AND   "no.  229 

translated  by  "yes,"  is  properly  an  interjection  used  to 
show  that  one  has  heard  and  understood  what  has  been 
said  to  one.  It  does  not  generally  imply  assent  to  a  state- 
ment. Thus,  when  a  tea-house  girl  is  called,  she  will  cry 
out  hei  !  simply  to  show  that  she  is  coming  immediately. 
Instead  of  "yes,"  the  Japanese  say  "that*  is*  so,'"  sQ^ 
da^^  more  politely  so  desu,  still  more  politely  sayv  de  gozai- 
masu.  Similarly  for  "  no  "  they  say  "  that  is  not  so,"  so 
ja  naif  politely  sayo  de  gozahnaseji.  Or  else' they  repeat 
the  verb  of  the  question,  thus  : 

O  wakari  ni  nari- 

B.0umurahie  uudertiam^iHg  io       Mat' 

mashita  ka  ?  (    For  use  of  past  tense  \ 
become       f      \here,  conf.  ^[274,  p.  171./ 


"  Do  you  under- 
stand ? " 


Wakarimashita, 
JEiav  e'Muderticod* 

Wakarimasen, 

Umdert  ietHtt-HOt, 

O  ide  ni  narimasu  ka  ? 

JEi0M0Hrmkle  exit  to    beemamet      f 


"Yes." 

"  No.'* 

"Is  becoming?" 


Sayo  de  gozaimasu.  ]      uyes" 

So  {it)U,  j 

Some  speakers  use  the  word  ikanimo  for  "  yes  ;  "  but 
this  is  decidedly  old-fashioned. 
IF  375.  The  Japanese  have  a  habit,  which  generally  proves 
irritating  to  foreigners,  of  answering  one  question  by 
another,  especially  in  cases  where  a  European  would 
simply  say  that  he  did  not  know.     Thus : 

0  kaeri  ni  narimashiia  ka  ?]      "Have    they 

JEiOHOHrable  reinru  io    haB^beeome       f        )  COme    home  ?  " 

Ikaga  de  gozaimasu  ka  ?  [     "  How    is    it  ?  "    i.e., 
Jaow  iB  f     J"I  don't  know." 

t  376.  The  Japanese  idiom  differs  from  ours  with  respect 


230  THE   ADVERB. 

to  the  answer  given  to  a  negative  interrogation.     The 

'following  example  will  serve  to  illustrate  the  difference : 

"  Isn't  he  coming  ?  "  Kimasen  ka  ? 

"  No."     (I.e.,  It  is  so,  as  the]  Sayo  de  gozaimasu, 
negative  in  your  question  [  Kimasen, 
implies.)  J  He  I 

"  Oh  !  yes,  he  is."  Kimasu. 

**  Of  course  he  is  !  "  Kimas&  to  mo, 

(Conf.  bottom  of  p.  82.) 

ir  377.  Adverbial  phrases  are  formed  by  means  of  the  post- 
positions de,  mo,  to,  and  especially  ni,  thus : 

don  to,  **  with  a  bang." 
jozu  nif  "  skilfully." 


maru  de,  "quite." 
metta  ni  (with  a  negative 
verb),  "  rarely:" 


shidai'Shidai  ni,  ".little  by 

-  little." 
sude  ni,  "  already." 

tonto  mo  (with  a  negative 
verb),  "not  in  the  least." 

waza  to,  "on  purpose." 
IT  378.  Onomatopes,  like  the  English  words  "  ding-dong,*- 
"topsy-turvy,"  "higgledy-piggledy,"  etc.,  which  are 
generally  classed  as  adverbs,  are  extremely  numerous  in 
Japanese.  Such  are  bura-bura,  expressive  of  sauntering; 
guzu-guzu,  expressive  of  complaining  or  scolding ;  kyan- 
kyan,  expressive  of  the  yelping  of  a  dog;  pika-pika, 
expressive  of  glitter ;  soro-soro,  expressive  of  slow  move- 
ment;  bon-yari,  expressive  of  obscurity  or  dullness; 
katchiri,  expressive  of  a  clicking  sound,  etc.,  etc. 
Almost  all  words  beginning  with  the  letter  p  are 
onomatopes,  excepting  pan,    "  bread." 

N.  B.  There  is  room  for  doubt  whether  Japanese  pan  is  simply 
the  like-sounding  Spanish  word»  or  whether  it  may  not  rather  be  a 
corruption  of  Portuguese  **  pao,**  anciently  spelt  "pam."  The  Por- 
tuguese came  to  Japan  fully  forty  years  before  the  Spaniards,  viz.,  in 
the  middle  of  the  i6tb  century. 


THE  INTERJECTION.  23 1 

INTERJECTIONS. 

IT  379.  The  chief  interjections,  besides  he  /  (see  pp.  228 — 9) 
and  those  more  or  less  inarticulate  "  ah's !  "  "  oh's ! "  and 
**  eh's  ?  "  which  occur  in  all  languages,  are : 

Aita  !  a  cry  of  pain,  derived  from  the  exclamation  aa  ! 
and  ita^  the  stem  of  the  adjective  itaiy  "  painful." 

Ara!  an  exclamation  of  surprise,  used  chiefly  by  women. 

Dokkoisha !  a  sort  of  sigh  of  relief,  used  for  instance 
when  one  has  safely  lifted  something  heavy  and  put 
it  in  its  place.  This  word  is  rarely  employed  by  any  but 
the  lower  classes. 

11380.  Domoy  lit.  **even«(wo)  how?  (do?)''  It  expresses 
difficulty,  hopelessness,  astonishment,  and  corresponds  to 

.  some  extent  to  such  English  phrases  as  "do  what  I 
may,"  f*  well  I  never !  "  **  really  now !  "  or  to  an  emphasis 
on  the  chief  word  of  the  clause,  thus : 

Bet^r-mn.u.g...  ]   "It  was  50  amusing,  that... 

the  sentence  remaining  unfinished.  But  very  often  domo 
or  naka-naka*^  domo  is  a  mere  expletive,  used  to  gain  time 
and  to  cover  paucity  of  ideas. 
IT  381.  Ke,  or  kke,  a  final  expletive,  conveying  the  idea  of 
an  indistinct  conviction  on  the  speaker*s  part,  and  often 
translatable  by  "surely"  or  "I  believe."  Thus  atta 
means  "  there  was  ;  "  but  atta-kke  is  "  surely  there  was  !  " 


Ashtta   made  ni   dekiru 
to      sempo      de   ittakke. 


"  I  believe  he  said  it 
would  be  ready  by  to- 
morrow." 


Ke  is   almost  slang,   being  used    only  in   the   most 
familiar  intercourse. 

♦  See  top  of  p.  227. 


2^2  '  THE   INTERJECTION. 

Koso,  an  emphatic  particle,  used  to  strengthen  the  word 
which  precedes  it. 

Md/  an  exclamation  of  surprise  or  entreaty,  used 
chiefly  by  women.  '  Very  often  it  sinks  into  meaning 
nothing  at  all.  Do  not  confound  it  with  wa,  for  ma Jfw, 
mentioned  in  p.  228. 

IF  382.  Naruhodo  !  a  very  useful  word,  for  which  there  is  no 
exact  English  equivalent.  When  pronounced  in  a  tone 
of  great  surprise,  it  corresponds  to  "who  would  have 
thought  it?"  "you  don't  say  so!"  "well,  I  never!" 
But  more  often  it  is  pronounced  in  an  assenting  tone  of 
voice,  and  then  it  means  "oh!  indeed,"  "really!"  "I 
see."  When  some  one  is  telling  you  a  long  story,  it  is 
usual  to  chime  in  with  a  naruhodo!  at  every  point  he 
makes,  or  every  time  he  pauses  to  take  breath.  Instead 
of  naruhodo,  one  may  say  s6^  desu*^  ka^ ?  lit.  "is*  that 
so^  ?  "  or  less  politely  50  ka? 

%  383,  Ne  or  Nlf  vulgarly  and  provincially  nd  or  no,  serves 
to  draw  attention  to  the  preceding  word  or  clause,  which 
it  emphasises  and  separates,  somewhat  after  the  fashion 
of  wa  (see  p.  83).  Indeed  it  may  be  superadded  to  wa 
for  the  sake  of  greater  emphasis  and  distinctness,  as 
Kore  wa  ne,  "This, — this"  The  meaningless  "you 
know,"  or  "don't  you  know,"  with  which  so  many 
English  speakers  interlard  their  remarks,  has  been  sug- 
gested as  the  nearest  equivalent  to  it  in  our  language. 
Occasionally  it  might  be  rendered  in  French  by  n'est-ce 
pas?  in  German  by  nicht  wahr ?  and  in  English  by  such 
idioms  as  "is  it?"  "do  you?"  "won't  they?"  etc., 
according  to  what  has  gone  before.  Sometimes  it  shows 
that  the  speaker  is  puzzled,  as  «Sd  desii  ne  (pronounced  in 


NARUHODO  !    NE  !    SA  !   ETC.  233 

a  hesitating  tone  of  voice),  "  well,  I  don't  know,"  or  "  let 
me  see  1 "  Ne  belongs  exclusively  to  familiar  intercourse, 
and  should  never  be  employed  on  ofl&cial  or  public  oc- 
casions. Many  persons  are  in  the  habit  of  beginning 
sentences,  and  even  of  calling  people,  by  means  of  the 
words  ano  ne  I  {ano  =  "  that "),  just  as  English  speakers 
often  begin  by  **  I  say  I  " 

IT  384.  Oi  /  an  exclamation   used  to  call  people. 

Oya-oya!  an  exclamation  of  great  surprise,  heard 
chiefly  from  the  mouths  of  women. 

Sa!  or  Sal — Short  sa  is  used  by  the  lower  classes 
to  giwQ  emphasis  at  the  end  of  a  sentence,  thus : 

Kore  kara    iku  no  sa  /     i     "  Now  we'll  go  along  !  " 
Jrotr    from  (we)go!  \  (No  is  emphatic  also ;  see  H  113.) 

Short  sa  or  long  sd  are  used  indifferently  to  urge,  hurry, 
or  defy,  as 

Sa!      o  ide  nasaih      "Come    along!     come 

hoMOurabie  exit  deigu  !  \  along  1  " 

A  very  common  idiom  is  sayo  sa  I  "  of  course,"  **  yes." 

Yoj  used  emphatically  at  the  end  of  a  sentence,  thus : 

Arimasen  yo  I     "  I  have  none,  and  there's  an  end  of  it!"  • 
Zo-^  belonging  rather  to  the  Written  Language  than  to 
the  Colloquial,  but  still  occasionally  to  be  heard  at  the  end 
of  a  sentence,  to  which  it  adds  emphasis.     Ze  seems  to 
be  a  variation  oi  zo. 

N.  B,  The  personal  pronoun  ana^a,  **  you,"  is  sometimes  inter- 
calated in  a  sentence  with  a  certain  interjectional  or  expletive  force, 
chiefly  by  members  of  the  lower  classes. 

BAD   LANGUAGE. 

IT  385.   Japanese   is   honourably  distinguished   from   most 
languages  of  the  world  by  being  totally  devoid  of  oaths. 


234  SPECIAL  PHRA8BOLOGT. 

Where,  for  instance,  a  European  driver  would  probably 
swear  at  his  unmanageable  steed,  a  Japanese  will  only  em- 
phatically exclaim  kore  !  lit.  "  this !  "  or  sore  /  "  that !"  Ko- 
rya  !  and  sorya  !  (for  kore  wa,  and  sore  wa)  are  used  much 
in  the  same  way,  as  scolding  words.  The  words  haka  ! 
"fool;"  berabo'tne  !  **  scoundrel ;  "  ckikusho  !  ** beast;" 
etc.,  are  common  terms  of  abuse.  The  me  of  beraho-me  is 
a  sort  of  particle  of  contempt,  which  may  be  suffixed  to  any 
noun,  as  ano  inu-mey  "  that  beast  of  a  dog." 

BABY   LANGUAGE,    ETC. 

IT  386.  In  Japanese,  as  in  English,  there  are  numerous 
special  words  and  corruptions  of  words,  which  are  used 
by  young  children,  and  also  by  adults  in  addressing 
young  children.     Such  are : 


abayoy  "  goodbye." 
an-yo,    from    askiy    **  the 

feet,"  hence  **  to  walk." 
*  bdya,  from  obdsan,  "an  old 

lady,*'  "  grandmamma." 
bebey  "  clothes." 
botchan,^'  "  a  little  boy." 
chatij    from   saw,    **Mr.," 

"Mrs.,"  "Miss." 


enk0y\  "to  sit." 

nenne,     from     neru,    "  to 

sleep." 
nennei,  from  ningyo,    "  a 

doll." 

tete,  "  the  hands  ;"  from  te 
repeated. 

umamina,\  "food." 

wan-wan y  "  a  dog." 


Some  of  these  words  are  also  used  in  addressing   pet 
animals. 

*  Derived  from  bosan^    "  a  Buddhist  priest,"   Japanese  children 
resembling  Buddhist  priests  in  having  shaven  pates. 

t  Perhaps  from  en,  " the  floor,"  and  koto,  "thing,"  " act." 
{  Not  to  be  confounded  with  the  term  o  mamma,  **  rice,"  "food,"  used 
by  adults.    Vmamma  is  probably  umai,  *'  good  to  eat,"  twice  repeated. 


COUltT  LANQUAGZ. 


«3S 


IF  387.  There  are  also  some  few  words  which  are  almost 
entirely  confined  to  the  fair  sex.  Such  is,  for  instance, 
o  hiya,  <*cold  water"  (lit."  "honourably  fresh"),  which 
men  call  mizu, 

If  388.  A  number  of  objects  and  actions  receive  peculiar 
designations  in  the  mouths  of  members  of  the  Imperial 
Family,  and  of  those  privileged  to  address  them.  Although 
ordinary  mortals  have  no  use  for  this  exalted  phraseology, 
a  few  specimens  of  it  will  doubtless  not  fail  to  interest  the 
student.  Some  of  the  Court  words  are  survivals  from 
Classical  times;  some  are  euphemisms  (e.g.  ase,  "sweat," 
used  to  signify  "  blood  ");  some,  as  kachin  and  0  kabe, 
belong  also  to  the  language  of  women,  and  some  are  of 
uncertain  origin  : — 


ORDINARY 
EXPRESSION. 


COURT  LANOUAOB. 

aruku,   0  hiroi,  (\^°Zl'lT) 

chiy         asCf  (lit.  sweat) 

dangOy    ishi'ishif 

.    /lit.  honourable \ 
^  «^^^  (     becoming      ) 

hiyo, 

0  gushi,  (classical) 

takara,  (Ht.  treasure) 

yone,  (classical) 

0  rnushi,  ("'iT"^) 

0  hiyUy  /lit.  honourably \ 
V     cool  / 

kachiity 
mi  koshi, 


derUy 

jubatty 

kami, 

kane^ 

konte, 

miso, 

mizUf 

mochi, 
neru, 


ENGLISH. 

"  walking." 

"  blood." 

"a  dumpling." 

"  going  out." 

"  a  shirt." 
"  hair." 
"  money." 
"rice," 

"  bean -sauce." 
"  cold  water." 

"  rice-cake." 
"sleeping." 


sakana,  o mana,i^:^°^^^-^^^^^' fi«h (food)." 


236  CONJUNCTIONS. 

ORDINARY  COURT  ENGLISH 

EXPRESSION.  LANGUAGE. 

sake,  kukon,  "  rice-beer." 

tofu,  o  kahe,  "  bean-curd." 

zoriy  kongo,  **  sandals." 

Notice,  too,  that  the  Court,  having  for  many  centuries 
resided  at  Kyoto,  retains  a  preference  for  Kyoto  methods 
of  expression,  e.g.  gozarimash  for  gozaimasu,  nasare  for 
nasaiy  hudasare  for  kudasai,  etc. 

CONJUNCTIONS. 

ir  389.  Conjunctions,  can  scarcely  be  said  to  exist  in  Japanese 
as  an  independent  part  of  speech,  their  place  being  taken, 
partly  by  conjugational  forms  of  the  verb  and  adjective, 
partly  by  postpositions,  partly  by  nouns.  With  regard  to 
the  word  **  and,"  which  is  in  Western  languages  the  most 
constantly  recurring  of  all  conjunctions,  the  necessity  for 
it  between  verbs  or  clauses  is  almost  completely  obviated 
in  Japanese  by  the  construction  with  the  gerund  explained 
in  IT  280  and  IF  281.  Between  nouns,  "and  "  is  sometimes 
represented  by  ni  or  to,  as  explained  in  H  109  and  H  119. 
But  more  often  the  two  nouns  are  simply  placed  side  by 
side,  as  Kazusa  Boshu,  "Kazusa  and  Boshu"  (the  names 
of  two  provinces  on  the  ocean  side  of  Yedo  Bay).  Occa- 
sionally "  and "  is  represented  between  verbs  (never 
between  nouns)  by  the  phrase  so  shite,  lit.  "  having  done 
so."     But  this  idiom  must  not  be  used  too  freely. 

"But"  is  sometimes  represented  by  shikashi ;  but 
neither  must  this  word  be  repeated  nearly  as  often  as 
"but"  is  in  English. 

"  While"  is  sometimes  represented  by  the  word  nagara 
agglutinated  to  the  indefinite  verbal  form,  as  aruki-nagara, 
"  while  walking;"  at  others  by  tokoro,  as  explained  in  IT  55. 


EQUIVALENTS    OF   ENGLISH    CONJUNCTIONS.  237 

"  Or "  is  sometimes  expressed  by  means  of  the  word 
nariy  a  classical  form  of  narUj  **to  be"  (see  IT  348), 
thus : 

>r-,  '     1    1  ^-u  '  (     "Ten  or  twenty  days;** 

Toka    nan,    hatsuka    nariAi^^^  ^-^^   ..^en  days  or  a 

Vem^^W    *«•    iweniw'duws   he.     [fortnight.** 

The  following  references  to  sections  of  this  work,  in 
which  words  or  constructions  corresponding  to  the  chief 
English  conjunctions  are  treated  of,  may  perhaps  be 
found  useful : 

"  although,'*  see  H  288.  **  if," 

"and,*'  „  ,,389.  "since," 

•'as,"  „  „  99  &  287.  **  than,*' 

•*  because,"     „  „  99.  **  that," 

««but,"  „  „  288  &  389."  when," 

"either... or,**,,  „  97  &  389.  "whereas,** 
"neither...!  "whether,'* 

nor,"         f  "  »'  ^02.  ,,  while,** 

IF  390.  "  As,"  meaning  "  in  the  same  manner  as,"  is  ex- 
pressed by  the  noun  toriy  lit.  "  road,"  "  way ;"  thus  : 
Kono   tori   no   mono.  "  Such  things  as  this." 

VhU     fray     *m     thiugt, 

Watakushi  no     iu     tori  ni  nasaiA     "Please  do  as 
M  tfr  #«artfi»i9-ar«y  #M  ifei^it.11  tell  you.'* 

H  391.  Details  concerning  the  best  manner  of  translating 
the  English  conjunctions  into  Japanese  in  various  con- 
texts belong  not  so  much  to  the  grammar  as  to  the 
dictionary.  The  student  is  accordingly  referred  to  Messrs. 
Satow  and  Ishibashi*s  "  English-Japanese  Dictionary  of 
the  Spoken  Language,**  where  the  words  in  question  are 
amply  illustrated. 


see 

IT  287. 

„  99  &  135. 

„  135  &  212. 

»  "7- 

»  57  &  287. 

.,   58&93. 

..    97- 

»   55*389 

CHAPTER  XI. 


HONORIFICS. 

IT  392.  No  language  in  the  world  is  nnore  saturated  with 
honorific  idioms  than  Japanese.  These  idioms  affect, 
not  only  the  vocabulary,  but  the  very  grammar  itself. 
Therefore,  although  scattered  references  have  been  made 
to  the  subject  of  honorifics  in  former  chapters,  it  seems 
advisable  to  gather  together  under  one  heading  all  the 
leading  manifestations  of  a  habit  of  speech,  without  a 
proper  mastery  of  which  it  is  impossible  to  speak  Japanese 
with  any  approach  to  correctness. 

IT  393.  The  use  of  honorifics  is  guided  by  four  main  consi- 
derations, which  are  that : 

L  Honorific  forms  are  used  in  speaking  of  the  actions 
or  possessions  gf  the  person  addressed,  while  depreciatory 
or  humble  forms  are  used  in  speaking  of  oneself.  In 
other  words,  what  we  should  style  the  first  person  is  self- 
depreciatory,  and  the  second  person  complimentary. 

II.  In  speaking  of  others  (what  we  should  call  the  third 
person),  honorifics  are  only  used  if  the  person  spoken  of 
is  superior  in  rank  to  the  person  spoken  to,  or  if  he  is 
present,  and,  though  not  a  superiof,  at  least  an  equal,  or 
assumed  to  be  such  for  courtesy's  sake. 

III.  There  are  gradations  in  the  use  of  honorifics, 
according  to  the  greater  or  lesser  respect  meant  to  be  paid 
to  the  person  spoken  to  or  of. 


PRINCIPLES   GUIDING   THEIR   USE.  239 

IV.  Honorifics  have  a  tendency  to  lose  their  original 
signification,  and  to  sink  into  mere  marks  of  a  courteous 
style  of  speech.  Sometimes  they  become  absolutely 
meaningless. 

f  394.  It  has  been  asserted  by  some  that  the  use  of  hono- 
rifics in  Japanese  replaces  that  of  the  personal  pronouns  of 
European  Languages.  This  is  not  strictly  correct.  The 
expression  go  hoh,  for  instance,  means  "  the  august  book," 
not  only  etymologically,  but  also  in  the  mind  and  intention 
of  every  Japanese  speaker  who  makes  use  of  it.  It  is  only 
because  **  you  "  are  an  august  person,  that  the  words  go 
hon  come,  in  many  contexts,  to  correspond  pretty  closely 
to  our  more  precise  phrase  "your  book."  The  correspon- 
dence is  still  only  approximate  ;  for  very  often  go  hon  may 
mean  the  book  of  some  other  august  lady  or  gentleman 
different  from  you,  i.e.,  it  may  mean  "  her  book"  or  "  his 
book."  In  some  circumstances  it  may  denote  the  book 
of  the  most  august  of  all  persons,  namely  the  Mikado,  and 
this  is  indeed  the  more  primitive  signification  of  the 
Chinese  character  with  which  the  word  is  written.  Simi- 
larly go  yd,  "august  business,"  may  be  either  "your 
business,"  "  his  business,"  or  "  Government  business." 
Like  considerations  apply  to  all  other  honorific  phrases. 

IF  395.  Descending  from  general  considerations  to  parti- 
culars, the  student  should  remember  the  following  leading 
facts: — 

In  addressing  an  equal  or  superior,  the  word  o,  "  ho- 
nourable," or  go,  "august"  (conf.  IT  210,  p.  139),  is  pre- 
fixed to  most  of  the  nouns  denoting  objects  belonging  to 
or  connected  with  him  in  any  way.  Even  adjectives  and 
adverbs  sometimes  take  one  or  other  of  the  honorific  pre- 


240 


HONORIFICS. 


fixes.  0,  being  of  Japanese  origin,  is  mostly  employed 
with  native  Japanese  words,  while  go^  which  is  of  Chinese 
origin,  is  mostly  employed  with  words  borrowed  from  the 
Chinese.  But  usage  admits  of  numerous  exceptions  to 
this  rule. — O  and  go  are  applied  to  the  third  person, 
subject  to  the  limitations  mentioned  in  H  393. 
If  396.  Here  are  a  few  familiar  instances  of  the  use  of  these 
honorific  prefixes  ; 


0  kodomO'Shu, 

0  taku.  . 

O  taku  desu  ka  ? 

0  rusu, 

0  rusu  desu. 

Go  shochi. 

Go  shinrui. 

Go  son, 

O  kega, 

O  kage  de. 

Yohodo  o  kirei 

desu. 
o. 

Danna      wa  o 

isogashiu  gozaimasu. 

kUBp  it* 


f     **Your    (his,    her,    etc.)' 
jchildren.*' 

"  Your  (or  his)  house." 
**  Is  he  at  home?" 
"Your  (or  his)  absence." 
**  He  is  out." 
"  Your  (or  his)  consent." 
**  Your  (or  his)  relations." 

(     "Your  (or  his)  loss"  (in 

(money,  etc.). 

**  Your  (or  his)  wound." 

f     "  By  your  (or  his)  kind  in- 
(fluence  "  {lit.  shade). 

"  It  is  very  pretty"  (e.g. 
this  garden  of  yours). 


"  My  master  is  busy.' 


Go  mottomo de gozaimasuA      "You   are   perfectly 

[rig 


•MngH9$  verff  it* 

Go     taikutsu  de  gozaima- 
AlHgnti  iedintn  pr^habi^ 

shitaro. 


ight." 


"  You     must 
felt  bored." 


have 


CURIOUS   HONORIFIC  IDIOMS.  24I 

IT  397.  Occasionally  the  word  santay  "  Mr."  is  added,  in 
order  to  make  the  expression  still  more  polite,  thus : 


Go        kuro      sama 
tMrngfrnsi  irmmkle      JWtr, 

0  machi-do 

Mmnmnrmbie     ^vaii^imMg 

sama. 


f'\     "  (Thanks  for)  your  trouble." 

*  You  have  had  a  long  time 
■to  wait ; "  or  "  Excuse  me  for 
keeping  you  waiting  so  long." 


0  kinodoku  sama,{     "I  am  sorry  for 

M0»$a99rable  p^UmtF^f'iMe'Mpirii    JMr*    (your  Sake." 

IT  398.  Examples  such  as  these  introduce  us  to  the  use  of  o 
and  go  in  (so  to  speak)  an  objective  way,  which  at  first 
sounds  very  strange  to  European  ears,  thus : 


O  yasu  gozaimasu. 


•Mngm§i  rHmUBueat     (I)  havC'd^me* 


"It  is  cheap.  Sir," 
i.e.,  **  I  have  the  honour 
to  offer  it  to  you  cheap." 

{"  I  have  been  sadly 
remiss  about  calling 
upon  you." 


Go     buret  moshi-agemashlta.  (     "I  was  very  rude 

^mguMi  rudenett    (/)  taiO-UfietL        I  tO  yoU . " 

0  jama  itashu\      u  Excuse    me    for 


mashita. 


having      interrupted 
you." 

At  a  first  hearing,  the  literal  meaning  of  the  individual 
words  may  cause  the  student  to  think  that  the  Japanese 
speaker  is  applying  honorifics  to  himself.  Far  from  any 
Japanese  mind  is  such  a  thought.  The  idea  underlying 
these  idioms  is  that  the  cheapness  of  my  goods,  and  even 
the  remissness,  the  rudeness,  the  interruption,  and  what 
not,  of  which  I  have  been  guilty  with  regard  to  you,  have 
a  sort  of  reflected  glory  cast  on  them  by  their  connection 
with  so  exalted  a  personage  as  yourself.     It  is  as  if  one 


242 


HONORIFIC8. 


should  say  <<  I  have  had  the  honour  to  be  remiss  in  call- 
ing ; "  "  I  had  the  honour  to  be  rude  to  you,"  etc.  More- 
over such  phrases  about  remissness  in  calling,  about 
rudeness,  etc.,  are  for  most  part  mere  verbiage  corre- 
sponding to  no  reality. 

IF  399.  The  phrase  0  saki,  "honourably  first,"  is  used  in' 
two  contrary  ways.     It  sometimes  means  "  Please  do  you 
go  first "  {aprhs  vous),  sometimes  "  Kindly  excuse  me  for 
going  first.'* 

IF  400.  Many  words  in  common  use  take  o  without  any 
honorific  intent  vis-a-vis  the  person  spoken  to,  especially 
in  the  mouths  of  women  and  of  the  lower  classes.  Thus 
we  daily  hear  such  expressions  as 


0  bake,  "  a  ghost." 
0  hotly  **  a  tray." 
0  chUf  "  tea." 

0  deki,  "a  pimple,'*  "a 
boil." 

0  kanef  "  money." 
0  naka,  "  a  person's  in- 
side." 
0  shaberi,  "  gossip." 
0  tagai,  "  mutually." 
0  tenkiy  "  the  weather."* 
o    teraj     "a    Buddhist 
temple." 


0  tomurai,  "  a  funeral." 
o  tsuki  safnUf  "the  moon" 

(lit. "  Honourable  Mrs. 

Moon  I  "). 
0    tsuyuy      "soup"      (lit. 

"dew"). 
o  yuy  "  hot  water,"  "  a  hot 

bath." 
0  zettj  "  the  small  trays  on 

which  Japanese  food  is 

served ;  "  etc.,  etc. 


These  are  examples  of  the  tendency  of  honorifics  to 
become  meaningless.  Occasionally  honorifics  are  used 
with  a  point  of  satire,  to  convey  an  indirect  attack  under 
cover  of  an  irreproachably  courteous  style  of  speech. 
Thus,  not  far  from  the  beginning  of  Chap.  II  of  the  "  Bo- 
ian-DdrOy'  the  novelist  EnchO  tells  us  that  Dr.  Yamanioto 


POLITE  PERIPHRASES  FOR  VERBS.         243 

Shijo  was  "  an  honourable  chatter-box  and  an  honourable 
quack"  {o  taiko-isha  no  0  shaberi)  ! 

11401.  Pedantic  speakers  sometimes  use  o»,  the  Classical 
word  of  which  o  is  an  abbreviated  form.  Another  honori- 
fic current  in  ancient  times  was  mi,  synonymous  with  0, 
and  still  retained  in  such  words  as  Mikado,  (see  p.  34) ; 
miya,  lit.  "  honourable  house,"  hence  '*  a  Shinto  temple," 
less  often  **a  palace,"  and,  with  the  addition  of  the  word 
sama,  "  a  prince"  or  "  princess  "  of  the  Imperial  Family 
of  Japan.  In  the  phrase  0  mi  ashi,  "your  feet,"  the  two 
honorifics  o  and  mi  are  used  pleonastically. 

IF  402.  In  order  to  make  verbs  polite,  the  plain  forms,  as 
given  in  the  verbal  paradigms  on  pp.  150 — 155,  are  re- 
placed by  those  in  masii,  as  given  on  p.  156.  These  are, 
however,  scarcely  honorific  in  the  proper  sense  of  the 
word,  that  is  to  say  that  they  are  more  often  simply  marks 
of  a  courteous  style,  than  of  any  special  respect  paid  to  the 
person  addressed.  For  the  latter  purpose  it  is  usual  to 
employ  a  periphrasis  consisting  of  the  word  0,  **  honour- 
able," the  indefinite  form  of  the  verb,  and  mosu  ("  I  say  ") 
if  the  first  person  is  intended,  or  nasaru  (less  frequently 
ni  nam)  if  the  second  or  third  person  is  intended.  Nasa- 
ru means  **  to  deign,"  ni  nam  means  "  to  become."  Thus 
tanomUy  **  to  ask,"  becomes  0  tanomi  mosu,  "  I  ask,"  and 

,  o  tanomi  nasaru,  or  o  tanomi  ni  naru,  "  you  ask."  The 
past  tanonda  becomes  0  tanomi  moshita  and  0  tanomi  nast- 
ta,  etc.  The  polite  termination  masu  may  be  superadded, 
thus  :  o  tanomi  moshimasu,  o  tanomi  nasaimasu  ;  0  tanomi 
moshimashita,  o  tanomi  nasaimashita.  The  periphrases 
here  indicated  are  used  in  addressing  equals  and  superiors. 
They  need  not  indeed  always  be  given  the  preference 


.244  HONORIFICS. 

over  the  simpler  forms,  but  they  should  be  scattered  about 
pretty  freely.  The  more  exalted  the  rank  of  the  person 
addressed,  the  more  frequently  should  they  be  introduced. 
IT  403.  Another  way  of  making  a  verb  honorific,  is  to  replace 
the  ordinary  conjugation  by  the  corresponding  potential 
forms,  it  sounding  more  polite  to  suggest  that  a  person 
is  able  to  do  a  thing,  than  bluntly  to  state  that  he  does  it. 
Thus  we  have  noborareru,  for  noborUy  "  to  go  up  ;  "  naku 
nararerUy  for  naku  nam,  **  to  die."  This  way  of  speaking 
is  specially  affected  by  the  lower  classes ;  but  in  some  few 
cases  it  is  adopted  by  all  the  world,  as  iraserareru  and 
oserareru  (usually  corrupted  to  irassharu  and  ossharu,  as 
explained  in  the  N.  B.  at  the  bottom  of  p.  245). 

IT  404.  The  use  of  the  verb  ageru,  "  to  raise,"  construed 
with  the  gerund,  shows  that  something  is  being  done  by 
that  lowly  person  myself  for  some  one  above  me.  The 
use  of  itadaku  shows  that  some  one  superior  to  me  is 
kind  enough  to  do  something  for  me.  We  have  already 
treated  of  this  incidentally  under  the  heading  of  passive 
verbs,  in  ^r  312,  p.  181.  Here  are  two  or  three  additional 
examples : 

Kiite      agemasho.  j     "I  will  go  and  ask 

MemrU^    mfili^ifi'mp,  ((foryou)." 

Kiite  itadakito  r     «  j  ^jsh  you  would 

f  ^r;^"*'"'^''*^'''^-'-""*^**'"'  be  so  kind  as  to  ask 
gozajmasu.  [(forme)." 


Oshiete  itadakitai, 

O  tsuide  ni 

misete        itadakito    gozaimasu. 


"  I  wish  you  would 
be  so  kind  as  to  show 
me  how." 

^  "  I  venture  to  hope 
that  you  will  take 
that  opportunity  of 
jetting  me  see  it." 


HONORIFIC   AND   HUMBLE   VERBS.  245 

IT  405.  There  are,  moreover,  several  constantly  recurring 
ideas,  for  which  separate  verbs  are  employed  according 
as  the  expression  is  meant  to  be  honorific  or  humble. 
The  chief  of  these  are : 

PLAIN    VERB.  HONORIFIC.  HUMBLE. 

^      au,        **  to  meet ;  '*      o  ai  nasarUy        o  me  ni  kakaru, 

iku         "toffo-"  {  0  ide  nasaru*  )mairu,     agaru, 

^  I  irassharuy  jmakaru. 

iru,  or) ,, .    ,      t*  f  o  ide  nasaru,  ]  . 

0ru,\    '°^'  [irassharu,  ]'"*,  oru. 

iu,         "  to  say ; "        ossharUy  moshi-ageru. 

kariru,  "  to     bor-      It-  i    -  i    l 

row .  "       r  ^  ^^^*  nasarUy      hatshaku  $uru. 
row ,  j 

kikuy      "to  bear;'*      o  kiki  nasarUj       ukefamawaru, 

,  ,,^  ,,  {0  ide  nasaru,       \mairu.  a£aru, 

kuru,     "to  come;     {,v«„a«,„.  UaVa^. 

mirUf      **tosee;'*        goran  nasarUf       haiken  suru, 
miseruy  "  to  show ;  "    o  mise  nasaru,      o  me  ni  kakeru. 

suru,      "to  do;  |«,^ft^,J^  Jw«. 

taheru,  « to  eat ; "       {nusU.ygaru,     {'"'^^^'*,l,^!''' 

ukeru,    "to      re-       (       ,  )itadaku:    cho- 

ceive;"       \o  ^^^  nasaru,      [     ^.  ,;^^_ 

kudasarUj  \ageru.  *  ' 

'  kureru,  (less  polite)  J  ^/^tn/o  suru. 

N.  B.  The  slightly  irregular  verb  irassharu  (see  IF  270),  which  is 
used  to  express  so  many  shades  of  meaning,  is  a  corruption  of  irase- 
rareruy  the  potential  of  the  causative  of  iV«,  **  to  enter."  Ossharu, 
the  honorific  equivalent  of  im,  "  to  say/'  is  a  corruption  of  oserareru, 
the  potential  of  the  little-used  verb  oseru,  ''to  say." 

*  Or  o  ide  ni  naru.    Similarly  in  the  instances  given  below. 


yarUy      "to  give," 


246  HONORIFICS. 

IT  406.  Of  course  the  honorific  verbs  can  only  be  employed 
in  speaking  to  of  of  others,  while  the  humble  verbs  are 
applied  only  to  the  speaker  himself,  or  to  some  one  in- 
timately connected  with  him,  for  instance,  his  own  child 
or  servant. 
The  following  are  a  few  examples  of  their  use : 

O  me  ni  kakete    mo  \ 


MmmmHrakle  eifew  in  pniiing  evCM* 

yd    gozaimasu   ka  ? 

gmmd  U  f 

O         mise  nasaimasen  ka  ? 

M9»tourabtp  Mh0w    deigM^twi      f 

Misete     kudasaimasen  ka  ? 
8h9w4mg    emmdeteemd-m^i    f 


*  May  I  show  it  to 
you  r 


"  Please  won't  you 
show  it  to  me  ?" 


Haiken        ga  dekimasu  ka ?)      "May    I    look    at 

t^dmriHg'immk  {nom,)  eveutmaiet  f     J  it  ?  '* 

Ko  iu  hanashi  wo        0  \      u  pjave  you    heard 

Sneh      .##r|r(acc«5.)**-om.4iWtUhis      StOiy      (or     this     • 

ktkt  nasatmashita  ka  ?  ^:^^^  ^r  „l,„o\  :>'» 

Mada       uketamawarimasen.)      ^  xjn   nr^f  Tr*>f  '» 
sail  (/)  tuiwe^t'hem^d.      \  ^^°'  "°^  y®^- 

SO  osshatte    kudasai  |     u  pjease  say  so/' 

Uso  wo      moshi-agemasen.     I      "  I  am  not  deceiving 

Mi4e{accus.)    (l)Baw'iirt-^%mt-9ip.     J  yOU,  Sir." 

Doko  ye  irassharu  ?  )      ,,  ^^       ^^^  i^    P .. 

W^ere    to  de4gti^t0'g0  f )  J        t>        & 

*cw  to  '^^''''^^'^•}     "  I  am  going  to  the  college. 
0  daiji  ni     asobase.  \     "Mind    you    take 

M9U9nrakie   care   to    *e-j»le««€Aj  care  of  yourself." 

IF  407.  The  treatment  of  the  imperative  mood  calls  for 
special  notice.  The  honorific  verbs  mentioned  in  IT  405 
make  use  of  their  imperatives,  thus : 


HONORIFIC  IMPERATIVES. 


247 


asabase  ! 

goran  nasai ! 

irasshai !  or  irasshai-' 
mashi  / 

o  ide  nasai ! 

kudasai  ! 

meshi-agare  ! 

nasai ! 

osshaimashi  f 


"  be  pleased  to  do !  " 
** deign  to  look!" 

"  deign  to  go  !*'  {or  come,  or  be.) 


"  condescend  to  give !  " 
"  deign  to  eat  (or  drink)  1 " 
^« deign  todol"   ' 
"  deign  to  say !  "  . 

N.  B.    O  ide  nasai  is  often  familiarly  abbreviated  to  0  ide ;  goran 
nasai  to  goran, 

IT  408.  But,  except  occasionally  in  addressing  coolies  or 
one's  own  servants,  and  in  the  naval  and  military  words 
of  command,  the  imperative  mood  of  other  verbs  can 
scarcely  be  said  to  be  in  use.  Such  a  style  of  address 
would  sound  too  rude  and  abrupt.  The  following  examples 
will  serve  to  illustrate  the  honorific  periphrases  by  which 
the  imperative  is  habitually  replaced : 

o*  kaki*  nasai^f  lit.  "  honourably*  deign*  to  write*.'* 

o  kaki  kudasai f  „  "  honourably     condescend     to 
write." 

*  writing  condescend." 


.•So 
6^ 


o®2 

^  2  f  I 


kaite  kudasai^ 

o  mise  nasai, 
0  mise  kudasai^ 
misete  kudasai. 


=  please  show  me." 


N.  B,  A  polite  imperative  very  common  in  the  Written  Lan- 
guage is  obtained  by  means  of  the  verb  tamau,  "  to  deign,"  thus : 
kaki'tamaey  mise-iamae.  It  is  nowadays  chiefly  to  be  heard  from  the 
lips  of  members  of  the  student  class. 

IT  409.  The  above  forms  are  those  generally  used  in  address- 
ing equals  or  superiors.     In  speaking  to  the  latter,  the 


i48  HONORIFICS. 

degree  of  politeness  may  be  increased  by  lengthening  the 
periphrasis,  thus :  o*  kaki*  nastte^  kudasai*  ("  honourably* 
condescend*  deigning^  to  write*'*),  o  mise  nastte  kudasai. 
'  In  addressing  inferiors  one  may  say  kaite  kurei  ("  writing 
give"),  misete  kurei,  or  kaite  o  kun  nasai  ("writing  honour- 
ably giving  deign  "),  misete  o  kun  nasai,  and  similarly  with 
all  other  verbs.  (Kun  is  a  corruption  of  kure,  the  indefi- 
nite form  of  kureru,  **to  give,"  of  which ^wm  is  the  im- 
perative (see  p.  154.)  These  latter  forms  are  those  to  be 
preferred  in  speaking  to  one's  own  servants,  to  coolies, 
and  to  the  servants  at  small  inns  and  tea-houses.  They 
would  be  too  familiar  as  a  mode  of  address  to  one's 
friend's  servants,  or  to  the  servants  at  a  first-class  hotel. 
Such  must  always  be  treated  to  a  fair  amount  of  the  hono- 
rifics  illustrated  in  the  preceding  paragraphs.  The  same 
remark  applies  a  fortiori  to  teachers,  office -writers,  re- 
spectable shop-keepers,  etc.  In  fact,  from  the  point  of  view 
of  the  proper  use  of  honorifics,  the  term  **  inferiors  "  in- 
cludes few  but'  coolies,  peasants,  and  the  speaker's  own 
children  and  servants.  Other  people  may,  as  a  matter  of 
fact,  be  his  social  inferiors ;  but  politeness  forbids  his 
reminding  them  of  this  by  a  rude  mode  of  address.  Even 
animals  are  often  treated  to  honorifics,  as  when  one  says 
to  a  dog  o  ide  I  instead  of  koi  /  "  come  here !  "  o  tachi ! 
instead  of  tate  !  "  sit  up  I  "  But  this  is  semi-jocular. 

IF  410.  It  is  rather  common,  in  slipshod  talk  addressed  to 
inferiors,  to  omit  the  honorific  imperative,  thus : 

Cha    wo        irete.     \     "  Make  (lit.  put  in)  some  tea." 
2*€a  (accus.)  pHiiimg^iH^]    ,     (for  Cha  wo  irete  0  kun  nasai,\ 

The  sentence  thus  appears  to  end  in  a  gerund ;  but  the 
ellipsis    must    always    be   mentally   supplied.     Observe 


PLEASE,    THANK  YOU.  249 

also  the  phrase  ...  ho  ga  it,  **  it  will  be  good  to...,"  "  you 
had  better...,*'  which  frequently  replaces  the  imperative, 
thus : 

Kd  shita   hd     ga        it,       \     "You  had  better  do 
Vhu»  Md    »i4e  {nam.)  {is)  *^*  j  it  like  this." 

N.  B,  For  ho  conf.  p.  140,  footnote ;  for  the  past  skUa  in  a  context 
where  the  present  would  better  suit  European  ideas,  see  ^  275. 

11411.  Dozo  and  doka,  which  the  dictionaries  give  as 
equivalents  of  our  word  **  please,"  are  comparatively  little 
used.  The  honorific  equivalents  of  the  imperative  amply 
make  good  their  absence.  Properly  speaking,  both  dozo 
and  doka  mean,  not  so  much  "  please,"  as  "  somehow  or 
other,"  "  if  possible,"  "  by  hook  or  by  crook,"  "  managing 
to  do  a  thing,"  as  in  the  following  example : 

Doka  watakushi  no]      ,,  -      •  ^    ..  ,,    , 

S^mehow^or^iMer  M  .f        "^    ^ish    it    COuld    be 

jiron        wo        hito      ga 
e0»ieut40u  (accus.)  people  (nom.) 


sansei  shite  kurereba     it 
Meeoud  doimg    if'giwe^   {is)ff00di 

g^ 

hmt 


managed  so  that  others 
would  support  my  view 
fbf  the  matter."  {But  I 
hardly  dare  hope  that 
they  will.)" 


J 
Arigato,  **  thank  you,"  is  likewise  used  less  profusely 

than  its  European  equivalents.     It  can  never  be  employed 

to  mean  **  no,  thank  you."     This  latter  phrase  finds  polite 

Japanese  counterparts  in  Yoroshiu  gozaimasu,  **  It  is  all 

right  (without  it),"  aLndyoshimasho,  "  I  think  I  will  desist." 

ir  412.  The  use  of  special  honorific  and  humble  words  is 
occasionally  exemplified  in  nouns  as  well  as  in  verbs. 
Thus,  whereas  the  general  term  for  "  head  "  is  atatna,  the 
polite  one  is  0  tsumuri.  But  the  honorific  tendency  comes 
into  special  prominence  in  the  case  of  nouns  indicative  of 
the  degrees  of  relationship,  of  which  we  give  the  chief : 


t250 


HONORIFICS. 


PLAIN   NOUN. 

ant,        **  elder  brother," 
chichi,     **  father," 


HONORIFIC.      HUMBLE. 

0  ani  samuy  a»i(i7). 

otottsaftf 

go  shimpu,^oyaji. 

go  rojin, 


okkasan. 


hahtty      "  mother," 

musilko, "  son," 

musume,^'  daughter," 

ototo,       "  younger  brother,"  goshatei 


I  haha. 
lofukuro, 

go  shisoku,    segare, 

ojosarif         musume.  . 


ottOy         **  husband,"  go  teishu, 

(generally  pronounced) 
go  teishi 


ototo. 

(yadOf  uchij  taku; 
(alllit.  =  **  house"), 
or  else  the  na  corre- 
sponding to  our 
Christian  name 
may  be  used. 


tsuma,    "wife," 


sat, 
kanai. 


'okamisan,  (lower  class)  ^ 
go  shinzOf  (middle  class) 
saikun,  „ 

.okusamay'^  (upper  class)  > 

N.  B.  The  humble  words  for  "  husband/*  viz.  yado^  uchi,  and  taku, 
generally  take  de  wa  instead  of  the  nominative  particle  gu,  thus : 


Yado        de  wa,        tabi         ye 
Muwkaud    aM'for,    Journey    to 

dete^  rusu  de  gozaimasU, 

katfittg'gOMCt  abMeui  it* 


*'  My  husband  is  absent,  hav- 
ing gone  on  a  journey." 


^  413.  The  words  otottsan  and  okkasan  well  exemplify  the 
remark  made  on  p.  239,  to  the  effect  that  Japanese  hono- 
rifics  do  not  replace  the  pronouns  of  other  languages, 
though  they  often  serve  a  somewhat  analogous  purpose. 
Being  honorific  words,    otottsan   and   okkasan   naturally 

*  Okusama  is  also  used  in  the  closely  related  sense  of  '*a  lady," 
"  my  lady."  The  term  comes  from  okti^  •'  interior,"  **  recess  ;'* 
and  sama,  •'  Mr."  or  *'  Mrs."  (referring  to  the  retirement  in  which 
Japanese  ladies  formerly  spent  their  lives). 


Humble  terms.  251 

serve  to  indicate  "  yoM/- father,**  ^^your  mother,"  when  / 
am  speaking  to  you.  But  if  I  am  addressing  my  own 
parents,  they  mean  respectively  **  papa  "  and  **  mamma  ;" 
for  it  is  natural  for  a  dutiful  son  to  address  his  own  parents 
politely.  It  is  only  in  speaking  of  them  to  a  third 
person  that  he  will  use  the  humble  expressions  oyaji  and 
haha.  The  term  0  fukuro  is  slightly  vulgar.  The  other 
words  in  the  column  marked  **  Honorific  "  are  used  only 
of  the  relatives  of  the  person  addressed,  those  in  the 
column  marked  **  Humble  '*  only  of  the  first  and  third 
persons. 
%  414.  Pedantic  speakers  occasionally  employ  humble  terms 
properly  belonging  to  the  Written  Language  only.  Such 
are  gii,  "  stupid  ;  '*  hex,  "  broken  down  ;  "  setsu^  **  awk- 
ward ;  "  sOy  "rough,"  "coarse;"  as  in 

gusai      lit.  "the  stupid  wife,"  i.e.,  "my  wife." 
hei-sha,  lit,  "the   broken-down  company,"    i.e.,    "our 

firm." 
set-taku  lit.  "  the  awkward  house,"  i.e.,  "  my  house." 
so-hariy  lit.  "coarse  rice,"  i.e.,  "the  poor  fare  which 
alone  I  am  able  to  offer  you." 

ir  415.  But,  generally  speaking,  explicitly  depreciatory 
nouns  and  indeed  explicitly  depreciatory  words  of  any 
class  are  rare.  Speakers  show  their  humility  chiefly  by 
abstaining  from  applying  honorifics  to  themselves,  or  to 
anybody  or  anything  connected  with  themselves.  Thus, 
whereas  o  kuni,  lit.  "honourable  country,"  serves  to 
designate  "your  country,"  the  simple  word  kuni  is  taken  to 
mean  "  my  country."  Similarly  the  simple  verbs  koma- 
rimashlta,  wakarimashita^  etc.  naturally  in  most  cases 
denote  the  first  person,  and  signify  respectively  "I 
was  troubled,"  "  I  understand"  (lit.  "  have  understood"), 


25a  HONORinCS. 

whereas  Sa 20  0  komari  nasaimaskitaro  signifies  "You 
must  have  been  greatly  troubled  ;"  and  O  wakari  ni  nari- 
mashita  ka  ?  signifies  "  Do  you  understand  ?" 

If  416.  There  are  no  polite  modes  of  address  corresponding 
to  our  "Sir"  or  "Madam."  But  the  student  who  has 
perused  this  chapter  will  be  able  to  judge  how  amply 
their  absence  is  made  good  by  the  use  of  verbal  and 
other  honorifics.  Of  titles,  that  in  commonest  use  is 
Satna^  as  in 

Kami  Sama,    **  a  Shinto  god  or  goddess." 

Shaka  Sama,  **  Buddha  "  {the  Buddha,  Cakya  Muni). 

Tenshi  Sama,  ** the  Son  (Chinese  shi)  of  Heaven" 
(Chinese  ten),  i.e.,  "  the  Mikado." 

In  speaking  of  ordinary  mortals,  Sama  is  mostly  ab- 
breviated to  San,  and  it  then  corresponds  to  our  ."  Mr.," 
thus : 

Watanahe  San,  **  Mr.  Watanabe." 

Koshi^'  San,        "  the   Minister  "   (Plenipotentiary) ; — 

N.  B,    Compare  such  French  expression^  as  Monsieur  le  Ministre. 

Sometimes  San  is  replaced  by  the  Chinese  word  KuUj 
lit.  "  Prince  ;  "  thus,  Watanabe  Kun.  This  expression  is 
much  affected  by  the  young  men  of  the  present  day, 
whose  slang  is  apt  to  be  of  the  grandiloquent  order. 

IT  417.  There  are  no  words  corresponding  to  our  "  Mrs." 
and  "  Miss."     These  are  replaced  by  such  periphrases  as 
Watanahe  San  no  okusama.   )      ,,  ^^^  Watanabe." 

IWatauabe  JfMr,   *§        ia^§f,  ) 

Watanabe  San  no    ojosan      |     <<  Miss  Watanabe." 

*  Koshij  written  with  different  Chinese  characters,  also  means 
**  Confucius."  But  he,  as  an  ancient  sage,  would  be  KOshi  Sama,  not 
Koshi  San, 


SIR,   MR,    MRS,    MISS.  ^53 

Pan-ya  no  okamisan.  '*  The  baker's  wife." 

(Instead  of  mentioning' 
her  surname.) 

%  418.  Women's  personal  names  (corresponding  to  our 
Christian  names)  are  preceded  by  the  honorific  0,  and 
followed  by  the  title  San  ;  but  the  San  is  dropped  in 
familiar  intercourse.  Such  names  are  mostly  borrowed 
from  graceful  natural  objects,  less  often  from  other  sources, 
thus: 

O  Hana  San,     (Honourable)  ^*  Blossom  "  (Miss). 
OHaruSany  „  *«  Spring "  „ 

O  Matsu  San,  „  **  Pine-tree "      ,, 

OSeiSan,  „  "Pure"  „ 

O  Take  San,  „  *'  Bamboo "       ,> 

O  Yone  San,  „  "  Rice "  „ 

Surnames  and  men's  personal  names  do  not  take  the 
honorific  0.  (For  these  see  bottom  of  p.  34.)  Notice  that, 
in  Japanese  usage,  the  surname  always  comes  first,  the 
personal  name  last. 
IF  419.  It  is  not  usual  in  Japan,  as  it  is  in  England,  to  drop 
the  title  of  **  Mr."  between  friends.  To  do  so  would 
savour,  if  not  exactly  of  contempt,  at  least  of  that  too  great 
familiarity  by  which  contempt  is  said  to  be  bred.  Offici- 
als, however,  mostly  drop  the  **  Mr."  in  addressing  their 
subordinates  when  on  duty.  This  is  on  account  of  the 
halo  which  surrounds  superiority  in  official  rank.  No 
Japanese  speaker  ever  applies  the  word  "  Mr."  to  himself. 
If,  therefore,  a  friend's  servant  asks  what  name  he  is  to 
announce,  the  caller  must  give  his  name  simply  as  Smith, 
Brown,  or  whatever  it  may  be.  It  would  sound  ludicrous 
were  he  to  talk  of  himself  as  5/wt7/^5aM  or  Brown  San. 


CHAPTER    XII. 


SYNTAX. 


IT  420.  The  fundamental  rule  oC  Japanese  construction  is 
that  qualifying  words  precede  the  words  they  qualify. 
Thus  the  adjective  or  genitive  precedes  the  noun  which 
it  defines,  the  adverb  precedes  the  verb,  and  explanatory 
or  dependent  clauses  precede  the  principal  clause.  The 
object  likewise  precedes  the  verb.  The  predicative  verb 
or  adjective  of  each  clause  is  placed  at  the  end  of  that 
clause,  the  predicative  verb  or  adjective  of  the  main 
clause  rounding  off  the  entire  sentence. 

ir  421.  Postpositions,  which  are  words  corresponding  for  the 
most  part  to  English  prepositions  and  conjunctions,  follow 
the  word  or  clause  to  which  they  belong.  This  seems, 
at  first  sight,  an  infraction  of  the  fundamental  rule  of 
Japanese  construction  as  laid  down  in  the  preceding 
paragraph.  But  the  history  of  the  language  shows  that 
this  apparent  exception  is  really  an  exemplification  of 
the  rule  itself.  Some  of  the  postpositions  were  origi- 
nally verbs,  and  as  such  naturally  follow  their  object, 
e.g.  kore^  yoriS  **than*  this^"  **  henceforward,"  lit. 
^Meaning  {yori  being  from  the  verb  yoru,  **to  lean") 
on  this."  Some  were  nouns,  e.g.  wa  which  meant 
**  thing,"  "person,"  so  thsit  fune  Wa,  which  now  means 
**as  for  the  ship"  or  simply  "the  ship,"  originally 
meant  "ship  thing."  Yama  no  VLB,  "  on  the  mountain," 
means    lit.    "  the  top  (w)  side  {he)  of  {no)  the  mountain 


CHIEF   RULES.  255 

(yama),''  In  such  cases  it  is,  historically  speaking,  the 
noun  which  qualifies  the  postposition,  not  the  postposition 
the  noun.  Other  postpositions  again  were  independent 
exclamations,  each,  so  to  speak,  forming  a  clause  by  itself.. 
Such  is  the  accusative  postposition  wo  (see  p.  89). 
Altogether,  in.  every  case  where  the  etymology  of  a 
postposition  is  traceable,  we  find  that  its  position  after 
the  noun  constitutes  no  exception  to  the  main  rule  of 
construction  set  forth  in  11  420. 

^  422.  When  the  verbs  of  several  clauses  are  intended  to 
express  the  same  tense  or  mood,  it  is  only  the  last  of 
these  verbs  that  takes  the  suffix  by  which  such  tense  or 
mood  is  indicated.  The  previous  verbs  all  assume  the 
gerundial  (or,  in  the  higher  style,  the  indefinite)  form. 
Adjectives  assume  either  the  gerundial  or  the  indefinite 
form.     Conf.  IF  278 — 283  and  ^\  180. 

N.  B.    This  rule,  which  was  formerly  absolutely  inviolable,  is  now 
occasionally  transgressed. 

If  423.  When  the  verb  has  a  subject,  this  usually  heads  the 
sentence.  But  most  verbs  are  subjectless,  arid  express 
rather  a  coming  to  be  with  reference  to  some  person,  than 
an  act  explicitly  declared  to  be  performed  by  him.  In 
the  absence  of  a  subject,  the  word  on  which  it  is  desired 
to  lay  most  stress  is  often  placed  at  the  beginning  of  the 
sentence,  and  isolated  by  means  of  the  particle  wa.  The 
student  should  compare  with  this,  paragraph  what  has  been 
said  of  wa  in  pp.  83  et  seq,,  and  the  further  discussion 
of  the  subjectlessness  of  Japanese  verbs,  which  will  be 
found  in  H  427. 

IT  424.  The  following  examples  will  serve  to  illustrate  the 
above  rules : 


456 


SYNTAX. 


Ki-iroi  hana.        )     ,,  ^      ^^^  fl^^^^j.  v 


Makka  (for  ma  aka)  na 

4^ite  red 

kao. 
fmee. 

Kura     no   kagi. 

G0d0WH  0f     hejf. 


"  A  very  red  face." 


"The  key  of  the  godown." 
/  '^Godown'' is  Far-Eastern\ 
\Englishfor  a  store-house.       ) 


Kirei  ni         sorotte 

FreiUMy    beHig'iH'eraer 

ortmasu. 


**  They  are  all  nicely  ar- 
ranged." 


Mae     kara    yoku     shit-\         ^  ,         t  i 

Before  fr.m,      m,eU     hH^m- !       "A  perSOH  whom  I  kneW 

teru        hito,  [.well  beforehand." 


Sake     wo    nomimasen 

JLiiquMT  (accus.)  ttrink'Hml 


:■] 


**  I  don't  drink  wine." 


Kono  tsugi     no    shuku  \ 

This      nexi       of  paat'tawM 

made    nan      ri         ho  do 
HU9      wvhai  iemgu€M  ahomt 

arimasho  P 

prmhabiyi*  ? 

Ki      wo     tsukete    kuda-) 

Spirit  (accus,)  fixing     ctfif- 

sai. 
deMcenA 


**How  many  miles  may  it 
be  to  the  next  town  ?  " 


"  Please  take  care." 


Itsu     made      matte 

W§^€H    iill   hmviner^miied] 

moy  yuhin  ga  hitotsu   mo         "  Wait    as    I    may,   no 

even,  pm»i  \nom.)     mne         cr«t I  letters     COme,     SO     that    I 
kimasen     kara,  makoto    nfjam     getting     quite      an- 

e0me»'M0t  beeauBCt     truth     '•»[  xious." 

shimpai  ni  narimasu. 
a»*i€tif      t0  (I)hee0me* 


EXAMPLES   OJ?   COf^STRUCTION. 


257 


A  no  hen  wa,    fuyu 

^  Vhat  ueighbourh0od  affor,  wcinier  | 

fii    nam     to,       shimo-doke     de 

im  becon$e»  wvUen,   froMi'tmeitiug  Ay» 
michi  ga    warukute,   aruku  koto 

rmmOs  {nom.)  hm^heing,  wcaikiug  act 
ga       dekimasen. 
(nom.)  eweninaiCB^u^U  J 

Byoin    ye         itte,  kusuri 

Bogpitai  io  haviug^goHe^  amedieine 

WO  totte  kite     kurei. 

{accus»)  haviug-iakent  cotmiug  give. 

lya,  mo !        okite,  te     ^ 

JVm  indeed!  haviHg^rUem,  hmndB 

WO    arau  koto  mo    dekimasen 
(accus.)  wvaBh  aei  emen  etteutHmteB'HOt 

deshita,     Chozu-hachi    no  mizu 

9vaB»         l^aBMng'haBiu 

ga      maru  de  kori-t suite 

{nom,)    altogether,      frees e-B ticking 

shimatte,        do     shite     mo, 

kavimg^^HiBhed,   kow  doing    even, 

shiyo      ga  arimasen    deshita. 
doingttaff  (nom.)  iB^uot  wtuB. 

Sonna  koto    wo  osshai- 

Snck  ikikgB  (accus.)  deiguing^umt' 

masezu  ni,  sekkaku        motte 

.  tO'Baif,      toitaomeitf  kaviug^earried  I  ccpting    it, 

kita        mon(o)  desu   kara,      dozo  [taken    the 

kare'COine  Iking    (it)iB  hecauBe,  piemae  I  l^i-ji^p-  [f  *' 

totte        kudasai.  (Saidto  one  who  hesitates 

tmking    emndcBcend.  ^  J  iq  accept  a  gift,) 

Or  take  the  following  proverb  : 


**  When  winter 

comes,  the  roads  in 
that  neighbourhood  are 
so  bad  with  the  thaw, 
that  it  is  impossible  to 
walk." 

**  Go  to  the  hospital, 
please,  and  get  the 
medicine." 

(Said  to  a  servant). 


'  No  indeed  !  when  I 
got  up,  I  couldn't  wash 
^Imy  hands.  The  basin 
u  9vater  y-yf^LS  entirely  frozen  over, 
and  all  my  efforts  to 
break  the  ice  were  in 
vain." 


\  '*  Please  do  not  feel 
any  such  delicacy  about 
it,  but  oblige  me  by  ac- 
as  I  have 
trouble  to 


yoro      no  makoto  to  tamago     no 

ConrtcBan  *b     truth     and,  egg  *« 

shikaku,        areba  misoka 


**  When  you  find  a 
truthful  courtesan  or 
a  square   tgg,  then 


fonr-BideBi—if{these)are,  l«#l-<f«yi«r-l*«-|  will  the   moOn  COme 

out  on  the  last  night 
,of  the  month." 


ni         tsuki    ga 

m§onih  on,  tnoou  [nom.] 


deru. 
wviti'eoMBe'mnt. 


N,  B.    According  to  the  old  Japanese  calendar,  which  went  by 
real  "moons,"  not  by  artificial  "months,"  it  would   have  .been  a 


*58 


SYNTAX. 


miracle  for  the  moon  to  come  out  on  the  last  night  of  the  month,  i.e., 
on  the  night  before  new  moon. 
II  425.  Now  for  a  slightly  more  formal  example,  specially  illus- 
trating the  use  of  the  indefinite  form  in  correlated  clauses. 
The  example  is  taken  from  a  recent  Buddhist  sermon  :  — 


Uma       ni        mukatte     ^ 

B9r$e         to        confroniiug, 

**  Koko        wo    tsukuse  /" 

•*  FWaM'piety  (accus,)  exhanti  /" 
okanii  ni  mukatte  "  Chugi 
wvotf  to  cenrroMUngn^^E^oyaitif 

WO     tsukuse  r    nado     to 
(accus,)  exhauit  /**  eteeterm  thmi 

itta  tokoro       ga,      dekiru 

taid    piace     atihough^    can 

koto  de  wa  gozaimasen 
fact  indeed        i$'Mmt 

ga, —  hito  wa 

9ipherea§t —        tman  mM-fmr^ 

ze-hi  zen-aku       wo 

righi-9vroHg  gmod'evii  [accus.) 
wakatsu         chie  ga 

ditcertt      inteiUgence      (nom») 

attey    kimi  ni    chu      wo 

being,    iord    to  to^faii if  (accus.) 

tsiikushi,  oya        ni 

exhantiing,  parent         to 

ko  WO     tsfikusiii, 

tHiai-piety  (accus.)  exhansting, 
kyodai       wa^  naka 

brethren     ae^for,      tntereonrte 

yoku,  fu/u  wa 

being'goodf      tpouget       at^for, 

mutsumasluku,    hoyu    ni 

being'harntoutof*»9    friendt    to 

wa    sMtashiku^     ntakoto 

being'intitnatef  Mineerity 

WO  motte  '    majiwat- 

(accus.)  taking,    having-inter' 

te  koso,    hajimete  shin 

course  indeed,     nrtttff     truth 

no  hito    to     iwaremasu, 

*9    tnan  that    gets'tmid,  > 


"Supposing  you  were  to 
tell  a  horse  to  practise 
filial  piety,  or  a  wolf  to 
practise  loyalty,  those 
animals  would  not  be  able 
to  do  what  you  required  of 
them.  But  man  has  the 
intelligence  wherewith  to 
discern  right  from  wrong, 
good  from  evil ;  and  he 
can  only  then  first  be  said 
to  be  truly  man,  when  he 
practises  loyalty  towards 
his  master  and  filial  piety 
towards  his  parents,  when 
he  is  affectionate  towards 
his  brethren,  when  he  lives 
harmoniously  with  his 
wife,  when  he  is  amiable 
towards  his  friends,  and 
acts  sincerely  in  all  his 
social  intercourse." 


CORRELATION   OF  CLAUSES. 


^59 


Here  the  two  tsukushVs,  yoku^  muisumashiku  and 
shltashikuy — five  indefinite  forms. — must  all  be  rendered 
by  the  gerund,  because  majiwatte  the  verb  of  the  next 
clause,  with  which  they  are  all  correlated,  is  a  gerund. 

IF  426.  Next  we  give  another  passage  from  the  same 
sermon,  illustrating  the  use  of  the  gerund  in  correlated 
clauses,  and  also,  in  one  instance  (sukunaku),  that  of  the 
indefinite  form.  Sukunaku  is  rendered  by  the  present 
"  are  few,"  because  the  verb  omoimasu  at  the  end  of  the 
sentence  is  in  the  present  tense  : — 

**At  the  present 
day  Buddhism  has 
sunk  into  being  the 
belief  of  the   lower 


Kono    goro   ni  itariinaBhitei 

Vkif  period    at  having  arrived* 

Bukkyo         to       mosu        mono 

B»ddhUm     that    (they)  $ay       tMug 
,way       tada       katd-jimmin       no 
at'fbrt  H$erely     lotvciatt -people     *§ 

shinjiru  tokqro  to  natte^ 

hetiewiHg  place  that  haviMg^become* 

chuto  ijo  de  wa 

tmiddle'elaBB  IheMce'Hpwvard*  iu^ 

sono      dori      wo       wakimaeteru 

it»   reason       (accus.)  diMcerni—g^are 

hi  to       ga     siikunaku;    shumon 

people  (nom.)       are^few  s         religion 

to         iebay         soshiki      no   toki 
that  if-one'tay»i  fuueral^ile  *»    time 

hakari     ni     tnochiirn     koto      no 

only        in         employ       thing       *$ 

yd     ni     omoimasu. 

tmauner  in  think. 

Again  take  the  following : 
Hito  ka  to         omoeha, 

JUTen     f  that  if^one'thinhM^ 

hito  de  mo  naku;  j'iir^i  ka 


classes  only.  Few 
persons  in  the  mid- 
dle and  upper  class- 
»  es  understand  its 
raison  d'itre,  most 
of  them  fancying 
that  religion  is  a 
thing  which  comes 
into  play  only  at 
funeral  services." 


**  One  might  have  taken 
them  for  human  beings ; 
but  they  were  not  human 


men      also  are^not  /  ghontsf  Lbeings.    Or  else  one  might 

to       omoeba,        yurei  de     u„„r     *„u««     ^u r^^ 

that    if-one'thiuka,  gho$t§ 
7no     nai. 
al»o  are-MOt, 


have  taken  them  for 
ghosts ;  but  neither  were 
they  ghosts." 


a66  SYNTAX. 

Here  the  indefinite  form  naku  has  exactly  the  same 
sense  as  the  final  nai ;  but  it  is  preferred  to  nai  in  the 
first  instance,  because  it  merely  ends  a  clause,  and  does 
not  complete  a  sentence. 

For  further  examples  of  the  correlation  of  sentences  by 
means  of  the  indefinite  form  and  of  the  gerund,  see  pp. 
173 — 176,  and  also  the  stories  and  extracts  in  the  Practical 
Part  passim, 

IF  427.  Of  all  the  peculiarities  of  Japanese  syntax,  the  most 
puzzling  to  the  foreign  student  is  the  already  mentioned 
fact  that  most  sentences  are  subjectless.  It  is  not  that 
the  subject  is  dropped,  but  still  "  understood,"  as  so  fre- 
quently happens  in  Latin,  but  that  it  does  not  exist  at  all 
in  the  mind  of  the  Japanese  speaker.  The  best  way  of 
getting- behind  this  difficulty  is  to  consider  the  case  of 
passive  constructions  in  our  own  language.  We  may  say, 
for  instance,  "  A  house  in  European  style  has  recently 
been  built  next  door  to  mine."  Now  by  whom  has  it  been 
built  ?  The  sentence  gives  no  information  on  this  point. 
The  action  is  affirmed ;  but  no  mention  is  made  of  any 
agent.  In  Japanese  it  is  just  the  same,  with  this  differ- 
ence, that  the  verb  used  is  an  active  instead  of  a  passive 
one.  English  people  say  "  A  house  has  been  built  (by  ?)." 
The  Japanese  say  **(?)  has  built  a  house."  In  strict 
reason  the  two  assertions  are  identical ;  for  it  is  only  the 
grammatical  clothing  of  the  thought,  not  the  thought  it- 
self, that  varies.  Thus  the  example  in  question,  trans- 
lated into  Japanese,  would  run  as  follows  : 

Konaida  watakushi  no   tonari     ni         seiyo-zuku- 

Mecentiy  M  of  Hext»daor  ^m,      MUnrepeau^cmuMtrMe^ 

ri     no     ie      wo     tatemashUa, 
ti0H  0f  kou»€{ac'cus,)    hmwhuitti 


MOST    SENTENCfefe    SUBJECTLESS.  l6r 

I.e.,  "  Next  door  to  me,  recently  (some  one)  has  built 
a  European  house." 

Again,  take  such  an  instance  as  **  I  think  I'll  send 
these  boots  to  be  mended.'*  We  do  not  in  English  ex- 
plicitly state  who  is  to  do  the  mending.  In  Japanese  the 
sentence  will  run  thus  : 

Kono  kutsu  wo  fiaoshi  ni      yarimasho, 
Vke$e    bo0t${accus.)  ame»d    to  9vUI-j^mbabiif»eutL 

Here  the  verb  naoshiy  "  mend,"  is  active,  but  as  usual 
subjectless,  so  that  the  wording  is,  as  literally  as  may  be : — 
**  I  am  going  to  send  the  boots  (for  some  one)  to  mend.'* 
The  verb  yarimasho  is  subjectless  too;  but  no  ambi- 
guity can  arise  with  regard  to  it.  For  who,  under  ordinary 
circumstances,  will  trouble  himself  about  any  boots  but 
his  own  ?  The  pronoun  **  I  "  is  so  obviously  the  one  to 
be  supplied,  that  its  omission  can  cause  no  ambiguity. 
The  Japanese  go  the  length  of  omitting  personal  pronouns 
in  almost  all  cases.  The  perpetual  iteration  of  **  I  "  and 
**  me,"  **  you,"  **  your,"  **  he,"  etc.,  which  characterises  the 
languages  of  the  West,  would  seem  to  them  no  less 
tiresome  than  superfluous  and  absurd.  The  student  is 
referred  to  almost  every  page  of  this  Handbook,  and  more 
particularly  to  every  page  of  the  Practical  Part,  for 
examples  of  the  omission  of  personal  pronouns  and  of  the 
general  subjectlessness  of  verbs.  He  should  also  refer  to 
1i  71  and  to  IT  122 — 125,  in  which  latter  the  difficult  parti- 
cle wa,  which  has  a  bearing  on  this  point,  is  treated  of. 

I1  428.  The  relative  order  of  the  direct  and  indirect  objects 
of  the  verb  depends  on  circumstances.  Whichever  of  the 
two  it  is  desired  to  emphasise  comes  first.  In  English 
the  same  end  is  often  attained  by  using  the  word  "  the  " 


26a  SYNTAX. 

for  the  more  important,  and  "  some  "  for  the  less  import- 
ant of  the  two  objects,  thus : 

Hito    ni    kane    wo  '  tsukawasu 

"PeraeH    #•»     uMitey  [accu^^     %9»g*9€ 

means  **  To  give  the  person  some  money." 

Kane  wo  hito  ni  tsukawasu 
means  **  To  give  the  money  to  somebody." 
IT  429.  Though,  property  speaking,  every  sentence  ought  to 
terminate  in  a  verb  (or  adjective  used  as  a  verb),  the  final 
verb  is  often  omitted  for  brevity's  sake,  when  there  can  be 
no  mistake  as  to  the  meaning,  especially  in  short  idio- 
matic sentences,  thus : 

Kore  de  shimai  (desii),     I      <<  This  is  the  last." 
rkU  bpf    end  it.  j      (The  full  form  is  the  politer.) 


Chotto  haiken 

•Mmuie      retpecifnt^glmnee 

(wo  negaimasii). 
{(fccus,)     {I)beg. 

Watakvtshi        sansei 

M  MecoHdiHg 

{itashimasu). 
de. 

Itsu       go        shukkin 
J^fV^en  mmgngi  mMee'going 

{ni  naritnasu)? 
im     heemtmei  f 

Makoto    ni     shiharaku 
(         o  me    ni  kakari- 

M0M0nrmbie  eyeg   •»,  (I)haHg' 

masen  deshtta). 


**  Please  just  let  me  look 
a  minute." 


"  I   beg  to   second    the 
"motion." 


"When   does   he  go  to 
office  ?  " 


"  Really   it   is    quite    a 
,time  since  we  last  met." 

(This  is  a  set  phrase  in  con- 
stant use,) 


This  omission  of  final  verbs,  though  the  commonest 
form  of  ellipsis,  is  not  the  only  one.  The  fondness  of  the 
Japanese  for  long  and  highly  complex  sentences  (conf..  IT 


ELLIPSIS,  INVERSION.  263 

442)  often  lands  them  in  the  predicament  of  not  knowing 
exactly  how  to  finish  off.  The  speaker  then  perforce 
breaks  off  with  a  gerund  (conf.  IT  410),  or  with  the  post- 
position ga  (conf.  II  287,  p.  181),  somewhat  as  if  one 
should  end  by  "and  ...  "  or/*  but  ...,"  through  absence  of 
further  definitely  expressible  ideas. 
H  430.  As  in  the  case  of  verbs  only  the  last  of  a  set  of  cor- 
related verbs  takes  the  suffix  denoting  the  tense  or  mood 
which  is  common  to  them  all,  so  also  in  the  case  of  nouns 
it  is  only  the  last  of  a  set  of  nouns  that  takes  the  post- 
position common  to  all.     Thus  : 

Yokohama^, K6he^,Naga-\      **  The  ports<^  oP  Yokoha- 
saki^  nado^  no^  minato^,       J  ma,  Kobe,  Nagasaki,  etc*." 

N.  B,    The  word  "  etc."  might  be  dropped  from  the  English  trans- 
lation, as  nado  is  often  absolutely  meaningless. 

O  cha    to  kwashi\ 

Miauourmhie     tea  and    eakeg  .<  -n  •        ^  i        1        )* 

wo  motte      -      koi.     \     "  Bring  tea  and  cakes. 

(accus,)  hmviug'earried  come,    . 

Mo  (with  any  other  postposition  which  may  precede  it) 
is,  however,  suffixed  to  every  noun  of  a  set,  thus  : — 
Ryukyu  ni  mOy  Chosen  ni  mo.  \     "  Both  in  Loochoo 

Mtmockmt  in  ai$0y  MKerea    in  «#*•.  fand  in  Korea." 

ir  431.  Inversion  of  the  regular  order  of  words  is  rare.  It 
occurs  for  the  most  part  only  then,  when  a  word  or  clause 
which  ought  to  have  been  inserted  in  an  earlier  portion  of 
the  sentence,  has  been  forgotten,  and  is  therefore  perforce 
brought  in  at  the  end.  From  such  forgetfulness  result 
phrases  like  the  following,  which  not  infrequently  occur 
in  conversation : 

Sono      okamisan,  jishin       to       ieba^         mas- 

Vhat  tnarried'wvmmanf  emrihqnake  thai  if^onftafftperfeeiiffm 

sao    ni    nam,- — kowagatte, 
-  grjten  io  heemnet^-^^eing-fri^iened. 


e64  SYNTAX. 

It  should,  properly  speaking,  run  thus : 


**  Mrs.   (so-and-so)   is  so 
frightened    of  earthquakes, 
that  she  turns  green  at  the 
^bare  mention  of  them." 


Sono  okamisafiy^  jishin 
to  ieba,  kowagatte,  massao 
ni  naru, 
(Or  more  politely  narimasfl,) 

Again : 

Naka-naka  hi  nando    ni        atatcha         iraremasetty — 

FmBitiveiy  lire  eteelerm  ai   a»'for'ioncMi$gt  (/)raM«i«l*fre» — 
got  an         no  tori,  isogi  no    yd      desu  kara, 
mnguBi'giauee  *§   waff,  hurry   *»  bu»t»$e»M     4»    becmuae. 

This  sentence  should,  properly  speaking,  be 

Goran  no  tori,  isogi  no\  "I  am,  as  you  see,  far  too 
yd  desu  kara,  naka-naka  I  busy  to  be  able  to  sit  quiet, 
hi  nando  ni  atatcha  trar^- [warming  my  hands  at  the 
masen,  )  fire." 

In  familiar  conversation,  occasional  inversion,  such  as 
that  here  instanced,  may  perhaps  be  thought  to  add  live- 
liness and  variety  to  the  expression.  But  it  would  hardly 
be  considered  appropriate  in  a  set  speech. 

II  432.  Negatives  destroy  each  other,  as  in  English,  thus  : 

"  It  is  not  a  fact  that  there 

•  are  none,"  i,e»,  "  There  are 

some,"  or  "  There  are  some.'* 

'     "  It  won't  do  not  to  do 
thus,"  i.e.,  **  It  must  be 
done  in  this  way." 
N.  B,  Such    mutually  destructive  negatives  are  very  frequently 

employed,  the  practice  having  been   apparently  borrowed  from  the 

Chinese. 

Occasionally  the  Japanese  employ  a  negative  where  we 
should  employ  a  positive  construction,  for  instance  in 
such  phrases  as  Ano  hito  no  konai  mae,  lit.  ''  Before  that 

*  If  a  lady  is  meant,  then  say  okusama,  not  okamisan.  This  latter 
term  only  denotes  married  women  of  the  lower  or  lower  middle  class- 


Nai      koto    wa     nai, 

J^9t^eiHg  fmei  mM'for,  ia^H^i* 


Ko  shinakereba  narimasen, 

VhHB    if'49'UBt,    hecetmefumt. 


NJ^GATfVES.  865 

person's  not  coming,"  but  signifying  .simply  **  Before  he 
comes."  The  train  of  thought  here  seems  to  be  that, 
before  a  man  comes,  he  of  course  cannot  have  come  yet, 
and  similarly  in  other  cases. 

IT  433.  Japanese  has  no  negative  pronouns,  adverbs,  or  con- 
junctions, such  as  the  English  words  "  nobody,"  **  no- 
thing," "none,"  " never/' "  nowhere,"  ** neither nor," 

etc.  Their  absence  is  supplied  by  the  negative  voice  of 
the  verb  or  adjective,  conibined  with  positive  pronouns 
and  other  positive  words.  Thus  for  the  English  **  1  know 
nothing,"  a  Jsipanese  will  say  Na{n)ni^  mo^  shiranai^, 
**  (I)  know-not'  anything^*,*" — more  literally  (so  far  as  the 
grammatical  expression  is  concerned),  "  I  ignore  every- 
thing." For  **  There  are  none  to  be  had  anywhere,"  he 
will  say  Doko^  nP  md^  gozaimasen^f  **  Everywhere*'*'' 
{more  lit.  even'  in*  where^)  are-non-existent*."  The  fol- 
lowing examples  will  serve  to  illustrate  the  manner  in 
which  the  various  kinds  of  English  negative  and  quasi- 
negative  assertions,  and  other  kindred  idioms,  are  ex- 
pressed in  Japanese : — 

Dare  mo    shiranai,   (Familiar.)  . 

Mveryhedy    knowMmmoi,  (i.e.,   ignores.)  I  "  Nobody 

Donata  mo      go        zonji        ga     nai.  (Polite.)   knows." 
Xvery    hmdff  augu$i  hnotifiedge  {nom.)  iB^n^i.  ] 

"There  are  some 
persons  who  know 
not,"  i.e.^  "  Every 
body  doesn't  know." 

Shiru  hUo    mo  gozaimasu.)      «Some  people  know." 

•  Know  per$ou9  aiio  (there)are*    )    .  r      r 

Shiru   hito     mo        areba,  \      u  Some      people 

Kuow^er.oH,ai.ow^eras^tHere^mre,l^  ^^^ 

shtranat   hlto    mo  gozaimasu.  ,     ,,',, 

igmore  person*  atao     {there)mre*  /     ^      * 


Shiranai   hlto    mo  gozaimasu, 
Mgnore  perB0»»  mltm        «#e. 


266 


SYNTAX. 


Shitteru       hlto       wa    s&kuno 

MLnowiugr^re  per§»m9    ««-#'«r,      few 

gozaimasu, 
ore. 

Mattaku    zonjimasen. 


"There  are  few 
who  know ;"  or 
"  Few  people 

know." 

"  I   don*t    know 

all." 


I.. 


Kuwashiku    wa     zonjimasen, 

Jftinnteiff      UM'for,    kmawnoU 

Mattaku     tsumi    ga     nai. 
Cemtpieteitf    crime  (nom.)  U'HoM, 

A  no    hlto     wa,     ichi-do     mo 

Vhat  per§eH  ai'fer^  OHe-Uate    even 

kita  koto  ga  gozaimasen. 
met  {nom.)      tf^mtof. 


Konai    toki  mo  gozdimasu, 

Comte^Heg  UmteB  ai§o       are. 


Kuru  toki    mo         areha, 

Ceme     time   aiae    whereafther^Uf 

konai      toki    mo  gosaimasu, 

ee/HC'Het  tiaaae   aito  4», 


(     "I    don't    quite 
(know." 

"  He  has  not 
committed  the 

^smallest  crime." 

"He  has  never 
once  come." 

("  There  are 

times  when  he 
doesn't  come,"  i,e,, 
"He doesn't  always 
come." 

"  Sometimes  he 
comes,  and  some- 
times he  doesn't." 


Kuriirkoto  wa  sukuno gozaimasu.  (     "  He  rarely 

Come  a€t0  OM-fer,  few  are,  (COmeS." 

Konai   koto  wa  gozaima-^     .«There  is  no  such  thing 

•as  his  not  coming,"  i,e,, 
"  He  does  come." 


Ceime'Het  aet§  a§»forf     are^ 

sen. 

wet, 

Sutkoshi    mo        konaku 

•M^little     eeen      eeawiHg^mot 

narimashita, 
haM'hecetwe, 

Are    kara    ijirimasen, 

Vhat  from  [I)me0tSle-»$et, 

Doko  ye  mo   ikimasen, 

Everywhere        ge^net. 


"  He  has  quite  left  off 
coming." 

f     "I  have  never  touched 
tit  since  then." 

f     "I  don't  go  anywhere," 
(oj'  "I  go  nowhere." 


NEGATIVES.  267 

Sappari  wakarimasen.      \ 

Quite    {I)nHaergtaHd^0i.    I      '^  I  don^t  Understand  it 
Sukoshimo  wakarimasen,  [at  all." 
^•iUiie  even  wnderttmuti  nmi* ) 

Yoku  wakarimasen,  f     "I  don't  quite  under- 

wvw  nuaergtaHd'H0t,  {stand  it." 

Yoku    wa    wakarimasen,  J     "I  don't   quite  under- 

!#*«##  ««-##r,  HH^erMtma^d'umt,  |  stand    it." 

Mina  miemasen,  (     "I    can't    see    any    of 

yttii      appear^m^i,  (them." 

Mina  wa     miemasen,  "  I  can't  see  them  all." 

N,  B.    Note  the  great  difference  of  meaning  effected  by  the  limit- 
ing force  of  wa  in  such  instances  as  the  last. 

Tonto   kikimasen,  "  I  have  heard  nothing." 

Qmite  (/)  hemr  m«I. 

Amari    kikimasen,  f     **  I     have     not     heard 

Vomtmmeh     Jbear-MOi.  Imuch." 


Hotondo  nai     kurai  desu,^ 

•tffiMOfI  exUi'HOi  degree     it* 


(  "  There  is  hardly  any ; " 
or  **  There  is  little  if  any ;" 
more  lit.  "  It  is  almost  to 
the  pitch  of  there  being 
none." 


A  no    hito    to    kyodai    desu^ 

Vhmt  per»0H  writhf  brother     4s 

kara,   shirafiai    to    iu     wake 
heeaw§e^  ignmrea    thmt  amy  remteu 
ni  wa  mairimasen, 
§0  g^et'MM^t, 


"It  is  impossible 
that  he  shouldn't  know 
"about  it,  seeing  he  is 
the  fellow'^  brother." 


If  434.  The  difficulty  of  using  negative  constructions  cor- 
rectly will  disappear  as  soon  as  the  learner  clearly  grasps 
the  fact  that  in  Japanese  the  negative  and  the  verb  are 
not  conceived  of  as  two  separate  ideas,  as  is  mostly  the 
case  in  European  languages,  but  as  a  single  idea.  Even 
in  European  languages,  however,  there  is  no  lack  of  paral- 
lels to  this  Japanese  idiom.     Thus  **  to  disapprove,"  for 


268  8VNTAX« 

'*  not  to  approve ;"  "  to  disregard,"  for  **  not  to  regard ;" 
"impossible,"  for  "not  possible,"  etc.,  etc. 

N,  B,  Custom  limits  the  use  of  the  word  Svkunai^  "  few,"  to  pre- 
dicative constructions,  as  instanced  in  two  or  three  of  the  examples  in 
the  preceding  section.  Thus  we  can  only  render  the  phrase  "  Few 
people  know"  by  Shitteru  htto  wasukunai  (more  politely  sukuno go- 
zaimasii),  never  by  SUkunai  htto  wa  shitteru.  The  same  remark  ap- 
plies to  the  kindred  adjective  w,  '*  many."  The  sole  case  in  which  the 
words  svikunai  and  Oi  can  be  used  attributively  is  in  relative  clauses, 
for  instance. 


NandemOf  shina    no  sUkunal 

•MntftMHg'Whatevert  mriieie  *»  scarce 
toki  wa^  ne  ga  iakd  gozaimasu, 
time  aa^f •reprice  {nom)  dear        4»» 


'•  Every  kind  of  arti- 
cle is  expensive  when 
it  is  scarce." 


Kyo        wa,    kisha    ni    nori-ie    ga    >.      •«  There  was  a  great 
r^am9m..fr.irai^iH,  •^'f  ("^'«-)    bustle  at  the   train  to- 

It  may  per^iap^  be  thought  that,  as  toki  means  *'  when,"  and  kara 
"  means  "  because,"  the  construction  is  not  an  attributive  one  even 
h&Btl  It  is  so,  however,  from  the  Japanese  point  of  view,  toki  being 
even  now  apprehended  as  a  noun  signifying  "  time,"  and  kara  also 
hitving  almost  certainly  been  a  noun  in  the  archaic  period  of  the . 
language. 

IT  435.  In  Japanese  almost  all  quotation,  whether  of  the 
words  of  others  or  of  the  speaker's  own  thoughts,  is  direct. 
The  manifold  shiftings  of  person,  mood,  and  tense,  which 
are  brought  about  in  European  languages  by  the  use  of 
indirect  quotation,  are  consequently  unknown.  Thus  a 
Japanese,  when  mentioning  the  plans  of  an  absent  friend, 
does  not  say  "  He  said  he  would  be  back  by  Sunday ;" 
but  he  repeats  his  friend's  exact  words,  and  says :  "  He 
said  that :  *  I  shall  be  back  by  Sunday.'  "  In  Japanese 
the  phrase  would  run  thus :     . 


QUOTATION.  a6g 

"  Nichiyo  made         kaeru  "         to  Umashlta, 

•<  Snudag  Ml,    (/)sr«//«r««tffrM,**  ituii    {he)  $aid. 

N.  B,  The  word  to,  "  that,"  cannot  be  omitted  in  such  contexts. 
Compare  also  to^  at  bottom  of  p.  79. 

The  only  alteration  of  common  occurrence  in  quota- 
tions is  one  affecting  the  honorifics.  For  instance,  you 
say  to  me  0^  ide^  nasai^,  lit.  "  Deign'  an  honourable^ 
exit*,"  i.e.,  "  Please  come."  Now,  if  I  am  repeating  this 
remark  of  yours  to  a  third  person,  my  modesty  naturally 
prevents  me  from  applying  honorifics  to  myself,  even 
within  quotation  marks.  I  therefore  express  the  idea 
"  He  asked  me  to  come  "  thus  : 

Watakushi  ni  ^*Koi/"  to  iimashita,  or  Watakilshi  ni 
kuru  yd  ni  iimashita  (conf.  next  IF),  using  the  non-hon- 
orific verb  kurUy  "  to  come,"  in  lieu  of  the  honorific  0  ide 
nasaru.  So  constantly  present  to.  the  Japanese  mind  is 
the  idea  of  giving  honour  to  others,  and  of  abasipg  self. 
11  436.  The  sole  kind  of  indirect  quotation  ever  employed 
by  the  Japanese  is  a  locution  with  the  present  tense  and 
the  words jvo^  «i*,  lit.  "  in*  the  manner^,"  thus: 


Kitto        kuru      yd      ni    to 

M^0t4H9€ltf  eoine  tmauuer  iu  that, 

SO        itte         koi, 

go  hm9i»s^»mid  eoate. 


**Go  and   tell  him 
to  be  sure  to  come." 

(Said   to    an.    inferior    in 
speaking  of  another  inferior,) 


**  I  told  him  to  come  ; 
but  he  said  it  was  abso- 
lutely impossible  for  him 
to  do  so." 


Kuru    yd      ni     to     itta     ' 

Coame  tuauner  in  that  (I)taid 

ga, —     muko      de  do  shite 

thoHfgU, — oppotite  at,  houf  doing 

mo     korarenai      to  iimasu, 

even,  cannot»con$e  thai  aaff», 

N.  B.     To  may  be  omitted  after  yd  ni. — Notice  the  word  muko  in 
'  the  last  example,  and  consult  top  of  p.  46  for  it. 

The  phraseology  of  the .  above  examples  is  not  polite. 
That  of  the  next  is  extremely  so : 


"  Please  be  so  kind 
as  to  tell  him  to  take 


270  SYNTAX* 

Daiji  ni      nasaru        yd      > 

Careffliw  deijfH'i^-dm  tmwmmer 

ni    yoku         osshatte       kuda- 

iHt     well  aeigM4ug'i0'tm9     com-    ,  _ 

saimashl.  great  care  of  himself. 

Seteend,  J 

Somewhat  similar  in  character  to  the  above  are  such 
phrases  as 

Yosaso  ni  omoimasu,  (     "I  think  it  looks  as 

Good'apjfearat^ee     in  (/)  think,      jif  it  WOuld  do." 

IT  437.  Notwithstanding  the  example  given  a  few  lines  above 
(Kitto  kuru  yd  ni  to  so  itte  koi),  the  Japanese  generally 
avoid  such  phrases  containing  one  command  within  an- 
other. Thus,  rather  than  say  **Tell  0-Haru  to  come 
here,"  they  will  mostly  prefer  the  simpler  expression 
**  Call  0-Haru,"  viz. 

O'Haru     wo        yonde  koi! 

O'Bam  {accus.)  hawing-cmiied  eoine  I 

or  more  politely 
O'Haru    wo     yonde     kudasai  I 

0*HLarm  (accus.)  cmiti»g  cendeacettd  ! 

Rather  than  say  **  Tell  Jiro  to  get  the  jinrikhha  ready 
for  me  at  twelve  o'clock,"  they  will  use  the  causative  and 
say: 

jfu-ni-ji      ni    deru     kara^     yiro  ni     kuruma  no  shi- 

9[*tre/v0-«V/«cle  al*  ga-out  heeat^te^  Sira   #•,  JlHrikUhm    *»   pre- 

taku       wo  sashtte  oku       ga         ii, 

parationt  (accus.)  hawiug-cauged-te-do  ta-piace  (nom.)  4*  goed* 

I.e.,  as  literally  as  may  be,  **  As  I  am  going  out  at  twelve 
o'clock,  it  will  be  well  to  cause  Jiro  to  make  preparations 
for  the  jinrikisha.'' 

In  still  more  complicated  cases,  the  difficulty  is  often 
turned  by  omitting  one  whole  clause.  Thus,  where  an 
English  servant  would  say  **  My  master  told  me  to  tell 


1 


QUOTATION.  271 

you,  Sir,  that  he  particularly  wishes  to  see  you,'*  a  Japan- 
ese servant  will  more  briefly  say  **  My  master  said  that 
he  particularly  wishes  to  see  you."  In  Japanese  the 
sentence  would  run  thus : 

Shujin    ga        zehi  o  ai-moshitai        to 

Jtarmater  {nom.)  poaitimetg  t—furabiw  **  (I)  wis/^ta-^meef*  ikai 

moshimashita. 

N.  B.  Do  not  misinterpret  the  word  mdskitai  as  signifying 
"  wants  to  say."  O  ai-moshitai  is  simply  a  very  polite  equivalent  for 
aitai,  the  desiderative  adjective  of  au,  *'  to  meet."    See  IF  '402,  p.  243. 

On  the  other  hand,  Japanese  constructions  with  quota- 
tions are  often  pleonastic,  some  such  formula  as  "  he  said  " 
being  used  both  before  and  after  the  words  quoted,  instead 
of  once  only,  as  is  the  case  in  English.  The  following 
example,  taken  from  Mr.  Kato's  lecture  given  later  on  in 
this  volume,  will  show  what  we  mean  : 
Doitsu  no  tetsugakuska  Schopen-" 

hauer  to    iu     hito  no  iuta  kotoha 
hmner  that  §m§f  per§om  *t  §aid     tvrdg 

ni,   *^  Shukyo       wa      hotaru  no 

4m,    **MteNgt0M     indeed    Mrettg     '« 

yd        na        mono,  Kurai 

fmahion    being     thing  (fs).         MBarh 

tokoro  de  ndkereba,  hikaru  koto  ga 

piaee  ifHa^not^      thine  met  (nom,) 

dekinai  "  to  moshimashita. 

ementnatea'Hmt  **  that        {he)  Maid. 

H  438.  Interrogation  is  not  denoted,  as  is  the  case  in 
European  languages,  by  an  inversion  of  the  usual  con- 
struction. The  construction  remains  the  same,  but  the 
interrogative  particle  ka  is  generally  added.     See  p.  66. 

IF  439.  Passive  constructions  are  very  rarely  used,  and 
when  used,  their  grammar  is  peculiar  (see  p.  193  et  seq  ; 


**  The  German  phi- 
losopher Schopenhau- 
er has  said :  *  Religion 
-is  like  a  firefly.  It 
can  shine  only  in 
dark  places  '  [is  what 
he  said] ." 


272  SYNTAX. 

also  pp.  55 — 56,  199,  and  210).  The  passive  is  almost 
always  replaced  by  the  subjectless  active  construction  ex- 
plained in  pp.  260 — 261,  or  else  by  an  intransitive  con- 
struction, as  explained  in  p.  199  and  p.  185.  Thus,  to 
give  one  or  two  additional  examples,  a  Japanese  will  not 
say  **  As  has  already  been  explained."  He  will  say  "  As 
(I)  have  already  explained," 

Sude  ni    ioki-akashimashita   tori, 
•Mireadtf        (I)  have-expiaiMed    tray. 

He  will  not  say  "  It  has  been  notified  by  the  Depart- 
ment," but  "  A  notification  has  issued  from  the  Depart- 
ment," 

Yakiisho   kara      tasshi        ga      demashita, 
OMte      fromtf  umtMeaii^H  [nom.)  Jb««-coM»€-«Mf. 

IT  440.  Inanimate  objects  are  rarely,  if  ever,  personified. 
Not  only  does  Japanese  idiom  eschew  all  such  fanciful 
anthropomorphic  expressions  as  **  the  hand  of  Time," 
"  old  Father  Christmas,"  **  the  spoilt  child  of  Fortune," 
"  Nature's  abhorrence  of  a  vacuum,"  etc.,  etc. ;  but  it 
goes  so  far  as  almost  to  prohibit  the  use  of  the  name  of 
any  inanimate  thing  as  the  subject  of  a  transitive  verb. 
For  instance,  a  Japanese  will  not  say  **  The  rain  delayed 
me,"  thus  appearing  to  attribute  an  action  to  those  in- 
animate things  the  drops  of  rain ;  but  he  will  turn  the 
phrase  intransitively,  thus : 

Ante  no  tame  ni    6i  ni    osoku    narimashita, 

MtmiH     *M    smke  4u,  gremiiy    iate    (I)  htfve^eeome* 

I.e.,  **  I  am  very  late  on  account  of  the  rain." 
Similarly  it  will  not  come  into  his  head  to  employ  such  a 

phrase  as  **His  diligence    surprises  me."    He  will  say: 
Ano     htto  no    benkyo  ni  wa         kanshin         shimasu. 

Vhmt  pertmu  *t  Siiigeuce  ai,   admiring-^uimHithmeHg    (/)  dm. 

I.e.,  "  I  feel  astonishment  at  his  diligence." 


ABSENCE   OF  PERSONIFICATION.  '273 

IF  441.  Thus  no  language  lends  itself  less  to  the  imaginative 
and  mythopoeic  faculty  than  does  Japanese.  When,  for 
instance,  a  European  speaks  of  "  the  strife  between  Re- 
ligion and  Science,"  he  very  likely  spells  these  names 
with  a  capital  R  and  a  capital  S,  and  unconsciously  slides 
into  regarding  them  as  being,  in  some  sort,  actual  things, 
even  individualities  capable  of  aspirations,  aims,  and  con- 
quests, of  teaching  and  sustaining  their  devotees,  of 
revenging  themselves  on  those  who  slight  them,  etc.,  etc. 
Such  mythology  (for  mythology  it  is,  albeit  those  who 
have  been  reared  under  the  exclusive  influence  of  European 
modes  of  expression  may  not  at  first  recognise  it  as  such) 
is  utterly  alien  to  the  matter-of-fact  Far-Eastern  mind. 
During  the  last  few  years,  the  study  of  English,  and  the 
translation  into  Japanese  of  great  numbers  of  English  and 
other  European  books,  have  indeed  resulted  in  the  oc- 
casional adoption  by  public  speakers  of  such  expressions 

as  Rekishi  ga  watakushi-domo  ni wo  oshieru,  a 

literal    rendering    of   our   phrase   **  History  teaches   us 

that "  But  such  **  Europeanisms  **  are  quite  un- 

idiomatic,  and  would  scarcely  be  comprehended  by  any 
Japanese  save  those  who  have  themselves  at  least  a 
tincture  of  Western  learning. 

IF  442.  Languages  differ  greatly  in  the  degree  of  integration 
of  their  sentences.  For  instance,  Chinese  and  Pidjin-Eng- 
lish  simply  put  assertions  side  by  side,  like  stones  without 
cement,  as  "  He  bad  man.  My  no  like  he"  Our  more 
synthetic  English  would  generally  subordinate  one  asser- 
tion to  the  other,  coupling  them  thus:  **/  don't  like 
hinij  BECAUSE  he  is  a  bad  man"  Now  one  of  the  most 
essential  characteristics  of  the  Japanese  language  is  the 
extreme  degree  to  which  it  pushes  the  synthetic  tendency 


274 


SYNTAX. 


in  the  structure  of  sentences.  Japanese  always  tries  to 
incorporate  the  whole  of  a  statement,  however  complex  it 
may  be  and  however  numerous  its  parts,  within  the  limits 
of  a  single  sentence,  whose  members  are  all  mutually 
interdependent.  In  fact  the  normal  Japanese  sentence  is 
a  paragraph,  or  (so  to  say)  an  organism,  as  much  more 
complicated  than  the  typical  English  sentence  just  quot- 
ed, as  the  English  sentence  is  more  complicated  than  the 
Chinese  or  the  Pidjin-English.  As  an  illustration,  let  us 
take  the  following  anecdote,  the  first  paragraph  of  which 
forms  but  one  sentence  in  Japanese,  though  it  may  be 
conveniently   broken   up  into  four  or  five  in  English  : — 

IF  443.  HEMPO-GAESHI*.  TIT   FOR   TAT. 

Aru^        hito    ga      naga-  \     A  certain  man,  passing 


ya"^     no   mae     wo     tortmasic 
h0U9e»    •f   front  {accus,)     pas»e§ 
toki,  ishi   ni   tsumazukimashh 
Mhme,  ai0ue  om         nfheM'hchad' 
tareha^,        naga-ya      no    uchi 
9inmtki€di  ht9ek-9f''h0u§ea  »t  iuHde 
no    hito    ga     haka  ni  shite^, 
•r  penon  (nom.)   fool    to  tmahing^ 

''Aitata!^''  to     koe 

**mMh!'how^a4nfHiI**    that  voice 

WO  kakemashita  kara,  tsuma- 
[accus,)      placed       because,  (the) 
zuita         hito      wa,   ima-ima- 
§  tumbles  per  §oH  a§'fort  disagree' 

shii  to  omoimashita    ga,      wa- 

able  that     thought      though,  pur' 

za  to  otonashiku,''  ^*Iya/    go 

potel§f       blandlff     **JYaff!  august 

men     nasaimasht!  Kemashita 
excuse         deign !  Miched 

no        wa,     ishi  ka^   to    omoi- 

thing  as'for,  stone  f    that  where 

mashttara,     anata  no  hana  no 

as'M'thought,         if***'*         uose    '« 

saki  deshita  ha?''  to  iimashlta, . 
tip        ufoe        f**    that  (he)  send./ 


one  day  in  front  of  a 
block  of  houses,  tripped 
against  a  stone.  There- 
upon some  one  inside 
the  block  of  houses 
made  fun  of  him,  and 
cried  out :  "  Oh  how  I 
have  hurt  myself!"  So 
he  who  had  tripped 
/constrained  himself  to 
be  bland  (although  he 
felt  disgusted),  and  said : 
"  Oh  !  pray  excuse  me. 
I  thought  that  what  I 
had  kicked  was  a  stone. 
But  was  it  the  tip  of 
your  nose  ?  " 


INTEGRATION  OF  SENTENCES.  275 


Naga-ya        no  hito    no  ^ 

Bioch'0f''h0utea     of  peraou     *a 

kokoro-mochi   wa,  donna 

teeiiHgM       at'fort  wDhmi'iike 

deshttaro  ? 
pirohabiffwere  f 


I   wonder   how  the 
man  inside  the   block 
""of  houses   felt  on  re- 
ceiving this  snub. 


II  444.  The  integration  of  sentences,  as  illustrated  in  the 
foregoing  example,  is  secured  by  the  application  of  the  rule 
of  syntax  set  forth  in  IF  422,  p.  255,  and  here  exemplified  in 
the  word  shite,  by  the  incorporation  of  quotations,  and 
by  the  use  of  such  particles  as  kara  ("  because ") 
and  ga  ("whereas"),  and  of  the  conditional  and  concessive 
moods  of  verbs  and  adjectives.  In  translating  a  Japanese 
sentence  into  idiomatic  English  it  is  generally  necessary 
to  break  it  at  each  of  these  hinges,  as  they  may  perhaps 
be  termed. 

I  Hempo  is  a  Chinese  expression  meaning  **  requital ;  **  gaeshi  is 
the  nigori'ed  form  of  kaeshiy  the  indefinite  form  of  kaeru^  *•  to  return  " 
(trans.). — 2  Aru,  **  to  be,"  sometimes  has  the  sense  of  "  a  certain." — 
3  Naga-ya^  lit.  *•  long  house,"  is  an  expression  denoting  the  quarters 
formerly  attached  to  the  mansions  (yashlki)  of  the  daimyos,  as  re- 
sidences for  their  retainers.  Such  naga-ya  as  remain  are  now  most- 
ly let  out  in  sets  of  two  or  three  rooms  to  poor  families. — 4  Tsumazu- 
kimashitara  would  be  the  more  strictly  Colloquial  form  of  this  word ; 
but  see  p.  179. — 5  Hito  wo  haka  ni  suru  means  **  to  make  a  fool  of 
a  person ;  "  but  here  of  couse  hito  ga  is  the  subject  of  the  verb,  and 
the  object  is  left  unexpressed. — 6  Aitata  !  is  the  same  as  aita  !  on  p. 
231. — 7  Otonashikuy  more  lit.,  *•  like  a  grown-up  person,"  i.e.,  *•  sedate." 
It  qualifies  the  verb  iimashita  at  the  end  of  the  sentence. — 8  Ishi  ka, 
**  perhaps  a  stone."  Taken  more  literally  still,  the  words  ishi  ka  are 
a  direct  quotation  of  the  speaker^s  thoughts:  ** Is  it  a  stone ?  "  i.e., 
**  may  it  not  perhaps  be  a  stone?  " 


PRACTICAL 


PART. 


f  445. 


ANGLO-JAPANESE  VOCABULARY 


OVER   1300   USEFUL   WORDS. 

(Remember  that  this  is  only  a  vocabulary,  not  a  dictionary.  The  fundamental 
differences  of  conception  and  expression  which  separate  English  idiom 
from  Japanese,  render  it  an  impossible  task  to  assign  equivalents  that  shall 
be  satisfactory  in  all  contexts.  The  student  is  accordingly  referred  for 
details  to  Messrs.  Satow  and  Ishibashi's  excellent  '*  English- Japanese 
Dictionary  of  the  Spoken  Language.") 


A 

amuse  oneself  (to),  asohu. 

amusing,  omoshiroi. 

abdomen,  hara. 

ancestor,  senzo. 

able  (can),  dekirtu 

anchor,  ikari. 

about  (approximately),  kwrait  hodo. 

and,  see  p.236. 

above,  no  ue. 

angry   (to  be),    hara    wo  taUru^ 

absent,  rusu. 

rippuku  suru  (learned). 

ache  (to),  itatnu. 

animal  (quadruped),  kedamono. 

according  to,  ni  yotte. 

another,  mo  hitotsi,  hoka  no. 

account  (bill),  kanjd. 

answer,  henji,  hento. 

across,  no  muko  ni. 

answer  (to),  hento  suru,  kotaeru. 

giCtOT,  yak&sha. 

answer  for  (to),  uke-au. 

add  (to),  kuzvaeruy  awaseru. 

ant,  ari. 

address     ( written ),     tokoro-gakiy 

anxious  (to  be),  shimpai  suru. 

uwa-gaki  (on  a  letter). 

apple,  ringo. 

advantage,  rieki,  toku. 

arm  (of  body),  te,  ude. 

advertisement,  kokoku  (in  a  news- 

arm (weapon),  huki. 

paper)  ;  hiki-fuda. 

armour,  yoroi. 

afraid,  kowai. 

army,  rikugun. 

after,  no  nochi  ni. 

around,  no  mawari  ni. 

afternoon,  hiru-sugi. 

arrive  (to),  tochaku  suru. 

afterwards,  nochi  ni. 

art,  bijutsu. 

again,  maia. 

as,  see  p.  237. 

against,  no  satisf.  equiv. 

ashamed  (to  be),  haji  wo  kaku. 

air  (atmosphere),  kuki. 

ask  (to),  kiku  (lit.  to  hear) ;  ton. 

alive  (to  be),  ikite  iru. 

at,  ni. 

allow  {to),  yurusu. 

attention  (to  pay),  ki  wo  tsi^keru. 

almanac,  koyomi. 

auction,  seri-uri. 

along,  no  satisf.  equiv. 

aunt,  oha. 

also,  yahari. 

autumn,  aki. 

America,  Amerika^  Beikoku  (learn- 

average, heikin. 

ed  style). 

away,  no  satisf.    equiv. 

among,  no  uchi  ni. 

azalea,  tsutsujii 

28o 


ANGLO-JAPANESE   VOCABULARY. 


B 

berry,  ichigo. 

besides,  no  koka  ni. 

baby,  akambo. 

between,  no  aida  ni. 

back  (of  body),  senaka. 

beyond,  no  saki  ni,  no  muko  ni. 

bad,  warui. 

Bible,  Seisho. 

hsLg,/ukuro» 

big,  dkii,  dki  (na). 

bill  (at  a  hotel,  etc.),  kanjo. 

bake  (to),  yaku. 

baker,  pan-ya. 

bill  of  exchange,  kawase-tegata. 

ball  (for  throwing,  shooting,  etc.), 

bill  of  fare,  kondate. 

tama. 

bird,  tori. 

bamboo,  take. 

bite  (to),  kui-tsUku. 

bamboo-grass,  sasa. 

bitter,  nigai. 

band  (of  music),  gaHtai, 
banjo,  samisen,  snamisen. 

black,  kuroi. 

blood;  ^Af. 

bank  (for  money),  ginko, 
bank-note,  ginko-shihei, 
bankrupt    (to    become),    shindai- 

blotting-paper,  oshi  garni. 

blow  (to),  fuku. 

blue,  sora-iro,  ai,  asagi. 

kagiri  ni  nam,  saisankagiri,  etc. 

boat,/M»^,  kobune. 

baptism,  senrei. 

body,  karada. 

bark  (of  a  tree),  kawa. 
bark  (to),  hoeru. 

boil  (food),  nim. 

boil  (water),  wakasu. 

barley,  otnugi. 

bone,  hone. 

barometer,  sei-u-kei. 

book,  hon,  shomotsu. 

bat  (animal),  hdmori. 

book-keeping,  boki. 

bath,/«ro. 

boot,  kutsu. 

be,  aru  ;  but  see  p.  215. 

born  (to  be),  umarem. 

beans,  mame. 

borrow  (to),  karim. 

bear '(quadruped),  kuma. 
bear  (to),  koraeru. 

both,  ryoho,  dare  mo. 

bothered  (to  be),  komam. 

beard,  hige. 

bottle,  tokkuri. 

beat  (to),  butsu,  uisu* 

bottom,  shita  {no  hd). 

become  (to),  nam. 

bow  and  arrows,  iyumya. 

bed,  nedaiy  nedoko. 

bow  (to),  0  jigi  wo  sum. 

bed-clothes,  yagUjfUton, 

box,  kaio. 

bedroom,  nema,  nebeya. 

boy,  otoko  no  ko,  musUko. 

bee,  hachi. 

branch,  eda. 

beef,  gyuniku,  ushu 

brazier,  kibachi. 

beer,  6«>«  (from  English). 

bread,  j^an. 

before,  no  mae  ni. 

break  (intrans.)  orem,  kowarem. 

beggar,  kojiht. 

break  (trans.)  oru,  kowasu. 

begin  (intrans.  verb),  hajimam. 

breakfast,  asa-han. 

begin  (trans,  verb),  hajinuru, 
behind,  no  ushiro  ni. 

brick,  renga. 

bride,  [hana-)yome. 

believe  (to),  shinjim. 

bridge,  hashi. 

believer,  shinja. 

bridle,  tazuna. 

bell,  kane. 

bring  (a  thing),  ffio^^^  ^Mnt. 

belt,  obi. 

bring  (a  person),  tsurete  kum. 

bend  (intrans.  verb),  magam. 

broad,  hiroi. 

bend  (trans,  verb),  magem. 

broker,  nakagai, 
bronze,  karakane. 

beneath,  no  shtta  ni. 

B. — C. 


281 


brother  (elder),  ani.         ]  but  see 
brother  (younger),  ototo,  j    p.  250. 

chain,  k&sari. 

chair,  isu. 

brown,  akai,  kuriiro  (no). 

chairman,  kwaicho,  gicho. 

Buddhism,  Buppo,  Bukkyo. 

change  (a),  kawari,  henkwa. 

build  (to),  tateru. 

change  (intrans.  verb),  kawaru. 

business,  yd,  yomuki. 

change  (trans,  verb),  kaern. 

busy,  isogashii. 

character  (nature),  seishitsu. 

but,  see  p.  236-7. 

character  (Chinese), y*. 

butcher,  niku-ya. 

charcoal,  sumi. 

butterfly,  chd,  chdchO, 

cheap,  yasui. 

button,  botan  (from  English). 

cheat  (to),  damasu. 

buy  (to),  kau. 

cherry-tree,  sakura. 

by,  ni,  de. 

chest  (breast),  mune. 

chicken,  niwatori. 

child,  ko,  kodomo. 

c 

China,  Shina,  Kara,  Nankin{vw\%.), 

cholera,  korera-byd  (from  Engl.). 

cabin  (on  board  ship),  heya. 

chopsticks,  hashi. 

cabinet  (furniture),  tansn. 

chrysanthemum,  kiku. 

cake,  kwaski. 

cigar,  maki-tabakg. 

calculate  (to),  kanjo  suru. 

cigarette,  kami-makirtabako* 

call  (to),  yobu. 

circumstance,    baai,    koto,    koto- 

camellia-tree,  tsubakL 

gara. 

can,  dekiru. 

civilisation,  bummei,  kaikwa. 

canal,  hori. 

class  (ist),  joto. 
„      (2nd),  chuto. 

candle,  rdsoku. 

cannon,  taiho. 

„     (3rd),  kato. 

capital  (city),  miyako. 

clean,  kirei  («a). 

captain  (merchant),  sencho;  naval — , 

clever,  riko  (na). 

k  wane  ho  ;  army — ,  tai-i. 

climb  (to),  noboru. 

capital  (funds),  motode,  shihon. 

clock,  tokei. 

card  (visiting),  nafuda,  meishi. 

cloth  (woollen),  rasha. 

card   (playing),  karuta  (from  the 

clothes,  kimono,  ifuku  (learned). 

Spanish  carta). 

cloud,  kumo. 

cargo,  tsumi-ni. 

coal,  sekitan. 

carpenter,  daiku. 

coat,  uwagi. 

carpet,  sktki-mono. 

cocks  and  hens,  niwatori. 

carriage,  basha. 

cod-fish,  tara. 

carrot,  ninjin. 

coffee,    kdhi,  kahe  (from  the  En- 

carry  (to),  hakobu. 

r      glish  or  French  word). 

castle,  shito. 

cold  (to  the  touch),  tsumetai. 

cat,  neko. 

cold  (of  the  weather),  satnui. 

catch  (to),  Uukamaeru. 

cold  (to  catch),  kaze  wo  htku. 

caterpillar,  kemushi. 

collect   (intrans.  verb),   atsutnaru. 

Catholicism  (Roman),  Tenshttkyd. 

tamaru. 

cause,  wake,  gen-in  (learned). 

collect    (trans,    verb),    atsumeru. 

cave,  (hora')ana. 

yoseru. 

ceiling,  tenjo. 

colonel,  taisa. 

centipede,  mukade. 
certificate,  shosho.           .    . 

college,  daigakkd. 

colloquial,  tsuzoku. 

282 


ANGLO-JAPANESE  VOCABULARY. 


colour,  iro. 

dare  (to),  no  satisf.  equiv. 

comb,  kiishi. 

dark,  kurai. 

come  (to),  kuru ;  see  p.  154. 

daughter,    musume;     but    see    p. 

commission  (brokerage),  kosen* 

250. 

confusion,  konzatsn,  6-sawagi. 

daughter-in-law,  yome. 

conjuror,  tezuma-tsukai. 

dawn,  yo-ake. 

consent  (to),  shocki  snru. 

day,  hi  ;  conf.  p.  114— 5. 

consul,  ryvji. 

day  after   to-morrow,  myogotiichi. 

consulate,  ryojikwan. 

asatte  (less  polite). 

consult  (to),  sodan  sum. 

day  before  yesterday,  issakujUsu, 

convenient,   benri  («a),    tsugo  no 

ototoi,  (less  polite). 

yoi. 

day-time,  hiru. 

cool,  suzushii. 

dear  (in  price),  takau 

coolie,  ninsoku. 

debt,  shakkin. 

copper,  akaganc. 

debtor,  kari-nushi. 

corkscrew,  kuchi-nukL 

deck  (of  a  vessel),  kampan. 

corpse,  shigai. 

deep,fttkai. 

cotton,  momen. 

deer,  shika. 

cough  (to),  %eki  ga  deru. 

dentist,  ha-isha. 

count  (to),  kazoeru, 

count  (noble),  haku  (shaku). 

depend  (to),  yorut  kwankei  suru. 

devil,  onu 

country  (not  the  town),  ijiaka. 

dew,  tsuyu. 

country  (native),  waga  kuni,  hon- 

diarrhoea,  geri. 

goku,  (learned). 

dictionary,  jibiki^  jisho. 

course  (of),  mochiron^  moto  yori. 

die  (to),  shinuru. 

cow,  (me-)ushi. 

different,  betsu  (no). 

crab,  kani. 

difficult,  tnuzukashii. 

crape,  chirimen. 

dig  (to),  horu. 

creditor,  kashi-nushi. 

dimensions,  sumpd. 

crooked  (to  be),  magatte  iru. 

dining-room,  shokuma. 

cross  (a  river),  watarn. 

dinner  (late),  yOshoku,  bammeshu 

cross  (a  mountain),  kosu. 

dirty,  kitanaiy  kitanarashii. 

crow  (a),  karastt. 
crowd,  uzei. 

disappear  (to),  mienaku  narut 

disease,  byOki,  yamai. 

cry  (to),  naku. 

dish  (large  plate),  ozara. 

cryptomeria,  sugi. 

dislike  (to),  kirau. 

cuckoo,  hototogisu. 

dismiss  (to),  hima  wo  yarn. 

cup,  chawan. 

ditch,  dobu. 

cupboard,  todana. 

do  (to),  suru^  itasu. 

curio,  furu-dogu, 
curio-dealer,  dogu-ya. 

dog,  inu. 

door,  to ;  next — ,  tonari. 

curtain,  mado-kake. 

down,  shita  (ye). 

custom, /u2roAM,  skhkitari. 

downstairs,  shHa, 

custom-house,  zeikwan. 

dragon,  ryo,  tatsu. 

drawer,  htki-dashL 

D 

drawers  (garments),  shita-zubon. 

drawing-room   kyakuma, 
dream  (to),  yume  wo  miru. 

damp,  skimeppoi. 
dance  (to),  odoru. 

dreary,  sabishii. 

dangerous,  abuttai,  kennon  {na)» 

drink  (to),  nomu. 

"F. 


283 


drive  (in  a  carriage^,  noru. 

drive   away  (trans.),  oi-yaru,    ha- 

example  (for),  tatoeba. 

except,  no  hoka  ni. 

rau. 

exchange  (to),  tori-kaeru. 

drop  (a),  shiznku,  teki. 

exhibition,  hakurankwai. 

drop  (intrans.  verb),  ochiru. 

explain  (to),  toki-akasu. 

drop  (trans,  verb),  otosu. 

eye,  me ; — of  needle,  medo. 

dry  (to  be),  kawaite  iru. 

duck,  ahirti. 

F 

duke,  kd{-shaku). 

dust  (on  things),  gomi. 

face,  kao. 

dust  (flying),  hokori. 

faint  (to),  me  wo  mawasu,  kizetsu 

Dutch,  Oranda  no. 

sum. 

duty  (obligation),  gitnu. 

fair  (a),  ichi,  ennichi. 

duty  (tariff),  zei. 

fall  (to),  ochi¥u. 

dye  (to),  someru. 

false,  uso  (no),  konto  de  nai. 

famous,  nadakai. 

fan  (that  opens  and  shuts),  ogi, 

E 

sensu. 

fan  (that  does  not  shut,)  uchiwa. 

far,  toi,  empD  {na). 

ear,  mitni. 

f^t  (to  he),  futotte  iru. 

earth,  <sili:A/. 

father,  chichi ;  but  see  p.  250. 

earthquake,  jishin, 
east,  higashi. 

father-in  law,  shuto. 

feather,  hane. 

easy,  yasashii,  zosa  mo  nai. 

feel  (to),  kanjiru,  oboeru. 

eat  (to),  ^a6^/< ;  but  see  p.  245. 

fetch  (to),  totte  kuru. 

eggy  tamago. 

festival,  matsuri. 

eight,  ^a/jM  ;  but  see  p.  98. 

fever,  netsu. 

eighteen,  ju-hachi. 

few,  sukunai ;  see  p.  268. 

eighty,  hachi-jQ, 

field  (rice-),  ta. 

elbow,  hiji. 

field  (vegetable,)  hatake. 

eltven,  jaicki. 

fifteen,  ^M-^o. 

emperor,  tenshi  sama^  termor  kotei. 

fifty,  go-ja. 

empress    (consort),    klsaki^    kogo 

find  (to),   mi-dasu,  mi  ataru,   mi- 

sama. 

tsukeru. 

empty,  kara  (na). 

end,  shimai,  owarit  hajL 

fine  (good),  yoi,  rippa  (na). 
finger,  yubi  (vulg.  ibi). 

enemy,  kataki,  teki.  • 

finish  (to),  shimau. 

engage  (to),  yaton^  ianomu  (more 

fire  (flame),  hi. 

polite). 
England,  Igirisu,  Etkoku  (learned). 

fire  (conflagration),  kwaji. 

fire-wood,  maki. 

enough  (to  be),  tar  iru. 

fish  (alive),  uwo. 

envelope,  jo-bnkttro. 

fish  (used  as  food),  sakana. 

estimate  (written),  tsumori-gaki. 

five,  itsUtsu ;  but  see  p.  98. 

etcetera,  nado,  to. 

flag,  hata. 

eucharist,  seibansatiy  shu  no  bansan. 

fiame,  hono,  hi. 

Europe,  Yuroppa,  Seiyo. 

flat,  hirattai,  taira  (na). 

even  (smooth),  taira  (na). 

flea,  nomi. 

even  (adverb),  sae^  sura,  de  mo. 

flesh,  nikit. 

evening,  yiigata. 

floor,  yuka. 

a84 


ANGLO-JAPANBSB   VOCABULARY. 


flour,  kona^  udonko. 

glass  (a),  koppu. 

flow  (to),  nagareru. 

glass  (the  material),  giyaman. 

flower,  hana. 

glove,  te-bukuro. 

fly  (insect),  hai. 

glue,  nikawa. 

fly  (to),  tobiu 

go  (to),  iku  ;  but  see  p.  245. 

follow  (to),  isuite  iku. 

go  away  (to),  kaeru,  itte  shimau. 

food,  tabemonoj  shokumotsu. 

go  down,  kudarut  oriru. 

foot,  ashi. 

go  in  (to),  hairu. 

for,  no  tame  ni. 

go  out  (to),  deru. 

forbid  (to),  kinjiru. 

go  up  (to),  noboru. 

foreign,  gwaikoku  {no). 

God  (Buddhist),  Hotoke. 

foreign  (article),  hakurai-hin. 

God  (Catholic),  Tenshu. 

foreigner,  gwaikokujin. 

God  (Shinto  and  Protestant),  Kami 

forget  (to),  wasureru.^ 

(Sama). 

fork  (eating),  niku-sashi. 

godown,  kura. 

forty,  shi-ja. 

gold,  kin. 

four,  yotsuj  but  see  p.  98. 

goldfish,  king^o. 

fourteen,  jfi-sA:. 

good,  yoroshit,  yoi^  ii, 
good  (of  children),  otonashii. 

fox,  kitsune. 

France,       Furansn,       Fuisukoku 

good  (to  eat),  umai. 

(learned). 

goods,  shina-mono. 

free,  jiyu  (na). 

freight  (money  for),  unchin, 

Friday,  Kin-yobi. 

goose  (tame),  gacho. 

goose  (wild),  gan. 

government,  seifu,  seiji^  0  kami. 

riend,  tomodachi,  hdyu  (learned). 

graduate  (to),  sotsigyO  suru. 

frightful,  osoroshii. 

grammar,  bumpo. 

frog,  kaeru. 

grand,  rippa  (na). 
grandchild,  mago. 

from,  kara^yori. 

front,  omote. 

grandfather,  ojiisan. 

fruit  (on  a  tree),  {ki  no)  mi. 

grandmother,  obdsan. 

fruit  (for  eating),  mixu-gwashi. 

grass  (turf),  shiba. 

full,  ippai  [na). 

gravel,  jari. 

grease,  abura. 

G 

green,  aoi,  midori,  moegi. 

groom,  betto. 

grown-up  person,  oiona. 

gain  (to),  mokeru. 

guard  (to),  mamoru. 

gambling,  bakuchi. 

guest,  kyaku. 

game,  asobi. 

guide,  annai  (no  mono). 

garden,  niwa. 

gun,  ieppo. 

general  usual),  ippan  no^  futsu  no. 
general  (in  the  army),  taisno^  chujo. 

gunpowder,  kwayaku. 

shosho. 

H 

Germany,  Doitsu. 

get  (given  to  one),  morati. 

habit,  narai ;  (bad) — ,  k^se. 

get  up  (rise),  okiru. 

had  better,  see  p.  172. 

ghost,  bakemono,  0  bake. 

hail,  arare. 

girl,  onna  no  ko^  mnsume. 

hair,  ke ;    (specifically  of  the  head) 

give  (to),  yaru ;  but  see  p.  245. 

kami,  kami  no  ke. 

glad,  ureshii. 

hairdresser,  kami-yui. 

H. — K. 


285 


hair-pin,  kanzashi, 

half,  hambuHf  han. 

hand,  te, 

handkerchief,  hanafikL 

hang  (intrans.  verb),  kakaru, 

hang  (trans,  verb),  kakeru^  tsuru^ 

tsurt-ageru. 
harbour,  minato, 
hard,  katai. 
hardly,  no  satisf.  equiv. 
hare,  usagi. 
hat,      boshi,    shappo     (from     the 

French  chapeau). 
have  (to),  motsu,  motte  iru. 
he,  ano  htto^  ano  otoko, 
head,  atama, 
headache,  gutsu, 
hear  (to),  kiku. 
heaven,   ten   (Confuc),   gokuraku 

(Buddh.),  ten{koku)  (Christ.), 
heavy,  omoif  omotai, 
heel,  kakato. 
htXUjigoku, 

help,  (to),  sewa  wo  sum. 
hen,  mendori. 
here,  koko,  kochira. 
high,  takai. 

hill,  yama ; — on  a  road,  saka. 
hire  (a  house),  kariru, 
hire  (a  servant),  yatou. 
history,  reklshi. 
hold  (to),  te  ni  motsu^  motsu, 
hole,  ana. 

holiday,  yasumi-bi,  kyiljitsu, 
Holland,  Oranda, 
honest,  shojiki  (na). 
horn,  tsuno. 
horrid,  osoroshii, 
horse,  uma. 
horsefly,  abu, 
hospital,  by  din. 
host  (master),  aruji, 
hot  (not  cold),  atsuL    ' 
hot  (like  pepper),  karai. 
hotel,  yadoya. 

hotel-keeper,  yadoya  no  aruji. 
house,  iV,  uchij  taku. 
hundred,  hyaku. 
'hungry  (to  be),  hara  ga  heru. 
hurry  (to  be  in  a),  isogu. 


hurt  (intrans.  verb),  iiamu, 
hurt  oneself  (to),  kega  wo  sunt, 
husband,  otto  ;  but  see  p.  250. 
hut,  koya. 


I 


I,  watakushi ;  but  see  p.  44. 

ice,  kori. 

ill  (sick),  bydhi  {na), 

illness,  bydkij  yamai. 

in,  ni, 

included  (tojbe),  haitte  iru, 

inconveniem,  fuben  (»a),  tsugo  no 

waruiyfutsugo  (na), 
indeed,  yt/5tf  ni, 
India,  Tenjiku^  Indo, 
Indian  corn,  tomorokoshi, 
indoors,  ie  no  uchi. 
infectious  disease,  densembyo, 
ink  (Indian)  sumi. 
insect,  mushi, 
inside,  no  naka  ni, 
inside  (of  body),  o  naka, 
instead,  no  kawari  ni, 
insurance  (fire),  kwazai  hoken. 
insurance  (marine),  kaijo  hoken, 
into,  no  naka  ye^  ni. 
invalid,  byOnin, 
invite  (to),  maneku, 
invoice,  okuri-jd, 
iron,  tetsu, 
island,  shima, 
it,  sore^  ano  mono  (little  used). 


Japan,     Nippon^     Nikon     (more 

elegant), 
jealousy,  yakimochi,  netami, 
iokCtjodan, 
jug,  mizu-tsugi, 

K 

keep  (things  in  general),   tantotsu^ 

motte  iru. 
keep  (pet  animals),  katte  oku. 
kettle,  tetsUbin. 


286 


ANGLO-JAPANESE   VOCABULARY. 


key,  kagi. . 

kick  (to),  keru. 

kill  (to),  korosu. 

kind  (sort),  shurtii,  yd. 

kind  (-hearted),  shinsetsu  (na), 

king,  5,  kokuo. 

kitchen,  daidokoro,  katte. 

kite  (bird),  tombi. 

kite  (toy),  tako, 

knee,  hiza, 

knife,  hoc  ho. 

knock  (to),  tatakn. 

knock  down  (to),  buchitaosu. 

know  (to),  sAi>«.  • 

Korea,  Chosen. 


lacquer,  urushi. 

lacquer -ware,  nurimono. 

lake,  mizu-umif  kostti. 

lame,  bikko. 

lamp,  rrtm/i*  (from  English). 

land,  n^M,  oAa. 

land  (intrans.  vGTb),jariku  suru. 

land  (trans,  verb),  riku-age  suru. 

language,  kotoba. 

lantern,  chochin. 

late,  osoi. 

laugh  (to),  warau. 

law,  ifewoAw,  horitsu. 

lawyer,  daigennin. 

lead  (metal),  natnari. 

lead  (to),  AjAm,  awwflt  suru. 

leaf  (of  a  tree),  Art. 

left  (hand),  Ai(farf. 

learn  (to),  narau^  manabu. 

leave  (of  absence),  himn. 

leave  (to  depart),  tatsu. 

leave  behind  (to),  nokosu. 

leave  off(to),j>'am^rM,>'05«. 

lecture,  enzetsu. 

leg,  flsAt. 

legation,  kdshtkwan. 

lend  (to),  Aas«. 

let  (to  allow),  saseru,  yurnsu. 

let  (a  house),  ^as«. 

letter  (of  alphabet,  etc.),  moji. 

letter  (correspondence,)  tegami. 


liar,  uso-ts&ki. 

lid,  /u/a. 

lie  down  (to),  neru. 

lie  (tell  a),  mso  wo  iu. 

life,  inochi. 

lift  (to),  mochi-ageru, 

light  (not  heavy),  karui. 

light  (not  dark),  akarui. 

light  (the  6re),  Ai  wo  ^a^M. 

light  (the  lamp),  rampu  wo  tsukeru. 

lightning,  inabikari. 

like  (to),  suki ;  see  p.  63. 

like  (to  be),  nite  iru. 

lilac,  murasaki  (no), 

lily,  yuri. 

lion,  shishi. 

list,  mokuroku. 

live  (to  dwell),  sumau. 

lively,  nigiyaka  (na). 

lock  (to),  JO  wo  oy<75W. 

lonely,  sabishii. 

long,  nagai, 

look  at  (to),  mint. 

look  for  (to),  sagasu. 

loose,  yurui. 

lose  (something),  ushinau, 

lose  (not  to  win),  makern. 

loss  (pecuniary),  sonshitsu,  son. 

love  (to  be  in),  horern. 

low,  hikui. 

lucky,  tm  «o  ^oj. 

luggage,  nimotsu. 

lukewarm,  nurui. 

luncheon,  hiru-gozen. 


M 

mad,.*JcA?^flj  (wo). 

maid-servant,    jochu;    gejo    (less 

polite), 
make  (to),  koshiraeru. 
man,  otoko. 
man-of-war,  gunkan. 
manager  (of  a  bapk,  etc.),  shihai- 

nin. 
manager  (head  clerk),  banto, 
mankind,  ningen. 
manure,  koyashi. 
many,  oi  (see  p.  246);  dkn  no. 


M. — N. 


287 


mark,  shirushi^  ato. 

move  (intrans.  verb),  vgoiih 

market,  ichiba. 

move  (trans,  verb),  ugciasu. 

market  price,  soba. 

Mr,  Sama^  San. 

marquis,  kd^-shaku). 

Mrs,  see  p.  252. 

mast,  hobashira. 

mud,  doro. 

master  (of  a  house),  aruji. 

murder(er),  hitogoroshi. 

mat,  tatami* 

must,  see  p.  170  and  178. 

match  (lucifer),  haya-tsukegu 

mustard,  karashi. 

matting,  usuberi,  goza. 

may,  see  p.  170  and  p.  183. 

N 

meat,  niku. 

medicine,  kusttri. 

meet  (to),  au. 

nail  (finger),  tsume. 

meeting  (a),  kwai,  shukwai: 

nail  (metal),  kt4gi. 

melon,  uri. 

naked,  hadaka. 

melon  (musk-),  makuwa-urL 

name  (personal),  na. 

melon  (water-),  suikwa. 

name  (family),  set,  myojl. 

member  (of  a  society),  kwai-in. 

narrow,  semai. 

merchant,  akindo,  shOnin. 

nasty  (to  eat),  mazui. 

middle,  mannaka. 

navy,  kaigun. 

milk,  chichi. 

near,  chikai. 

minister  (of  religion),  kyoshi. 

neck,  nodo. 

minister  (plenipotentiary  or  resid- 

need, see  p.  183. 

ent),  koshi. 

needle,  harij  nui-bari. 

minister  (of  state),  daijin." 

needlework,  nuimono. 

minute  (one),  ippun. 

neighbour,  kinjo  no  htto. 
neighbourhood,  kinjo,  kimpen. 

mirror,  kagami. 

missionary,    senkyoshi ;    (protest.) 

neither... nor,  see  p.  265. 

Yaso-kyoshi ;  (cath.)  Tenshukyd- 

net,  (fishing),  ami. 

kyoshi. 

never,  see  p.  265. 

mist,  kiriy  tnoya. 

new,  atarashii,  shinki  {na). 

Miss,  see  p.  252. 

news,  shimbun. 

mistaice,  machigai» 

newspaper,  shimbunshi. 

money,  kane,  kinsu.             # 

next,  tsugi  no. 

money  (paper),  kinsatstu 

night,  yorUy  ban. 

Monday,  Getsuyobi. 

night-clothes,  nemaki. 

monkey,  saru. 

nightingale,  uguisu. 

month,    tsUki.      (For     names    of 

nine,  kokonotsu\  but  see  p. 98. 

months,  see  p.  114). 

nineteen,  ya-*«. 

moon,  tsuki. 

ninety,  ku-ju. 

moor,  no{hara). 

no,  ie ;  but  see  pp.  228—9. 

morning,  asa. 

nobody,  \ 

mortgage,  shtchimotsu. 

none. 

see  p.  265. 

mosquito,  ka. 

nothing. 

mosquito- curtain,  kaya. 

nowhere,] 

mother,  haha,  but  see  p.  250. 

noisy,  sozoshii. 

mother-in-law,  shUtome, 

north,  kita. 

motion,  undo ;  (at  a  meeting)  dogi. 

north-east,  higashi-kita. 

mountain,  yama. 

north-west,  nishi-kita. 

mouth,  kicki* 

nose,  han 

a. 

a88 


ANGLO-JAPANBSB  VOCABULARY. 


not,  rendered  by  negative  verbal 

parent,  oya. 

terminations. 

park,  koenchi. 

notwithstanding,  Hi  kamawazu. 

parliament,  kokkwni. 

novel  (romance),  shOutsu, 

partner  (business),  shain. 

number,  kazu. 

pass  (across  mountains),  toge. 

nun  (Buddhist),  ama. 

passage  (in  a  house),  toka. 

nurse  (governess),  ko-marL 

passport,  {ryoko)menjd. 

nurse  (wet-)  uba^  omba* 

pass  (to),  //>«,  sugiru,  ' 

pastor,  bokushi. 

0 

patient  (to  be),  gaman  sum. 

patient  (sick  person),  byonin. 

oak,  nara,  kashiwa. 

pattern,  moyo. 

oar,  ro. 

pay  (to),  harau. 

oats,  karasU-mugu 

peach,  momo. 

of,  no. 

pear,  nashi. 

off,  no  satisf.  equiv. 

peasant,  hyakisho. 

offer  (to),  susumern. 

pen, /tide. 

office,  yakishoj  jimusho. 

pencil,  empitsu. 
penknife,  ko-gatana. 

official  (an),  shikwan. 

oil,  abura. 

peony,  botan. 

old,  (of  people)  toshiyori  (no). 
old  (of  things), /f/r»i. 

pepper,  kosho. 

perhaps,  ...ka  mo  shiran* 

one,  hUotm ;  but  see  p.  g8. 

persimmon,  kaki. 

on,  niy  no  nc  ni. 

person,  At  to,  jin. 

onion,  negi. 

perspiration,  ase. 

open  (trans,  verb),  akerti. 

pheasant,  kiji. 

open  (to  be),  aite  im. 

phcenix,  hod. 

opinion,  rydken^  zonjiyori. 

photograph,  shashin. 

opposite,  no  muko  ni. 

physician,  isha. 

orange,  (mandarin),  mikan. 
orange  (hard-skinned),  daidai. 

pick  (to),  tsumu. 

pick  up  (to),  hiroH. 

ought,  hazu^  beki ;  see  p.  iig,  172. 

picnic,  yusan. 

out  (to  go),  deru. 

picture  (oblong  and  hard),  gaku. 
picture  (hanging  scroll),  kdemono. 

out-of-doors,  outside,  so  to. 

over,  no  ue  ni. 

pig,  buta. 

overcharge,  kakene. 

pigeon,  hato. 

overcoat,  gwaito. 

pill,  gwan-yaku. 

owe  (to),  no  satisf.  equiv. 

pillow,  makura. 

oyster,  kaki. 

pin,  harif  totne-bari. 

pine-tree,  matsu. 

p 

pipe  (smoking),  kiseru. 

pity  !  (what  a),  oskii  koto. 

planet,  ^fis^i,  wakitsei. 

pagoda,  to. 

plant  (in  general)  kusa. 

paint  (to  pictures),  egakti. 

plant  (in  a  garden),  ueki. 

painter,  ekaki. 

plate,  sara. 

palace,  goten,  gosho. 

play  (to),  asobu. 

paper,  kami. 

plenty,  jabun. 

parasol,  higasa. 

plum-tree,  ume  [no  ki). 

parcel,  tsutsumi-mono. 

pocket-handkerchief,  ktmafnki. 

p. — R.. 


fl89 


poem,  utaf  shi, 

policeman ,  junsa. 

polite,  teinei  (no), 

pond,  ike, 

poor,  bimbo  (na). 

porcelain,  setomonoy  toki  (learned). 

port  (harbour),  minato. 

post  (letter-),  yubin, 

post-card,  hagaki, 

post-office,  yubii'kyoku* 

postage,  yubin-zei, 

postage-stamp,  inshi, 

postman,  haitatsunin, 

potato  (ordinary),  imo, 

potato  (sweet),  Satsuma-imo. 

pottery,  tsucki-yaki, 

pour  (to),  tsugu. 

powder,  ko^  kona. 

powders  (medicine),  Jtogusuri. 

power  of  attorney,  dairi  ininjo.. 

practise  (to),  keiko  wo  suru. 

praise  (to),  komeru. 

pray  (to),  inoru, 

prawn,  ebi. 

preach,  (to),  sekkyo  sum, 

precipice,  gake. 

prepare   (to),   koshiraeru,  shitaku 

wo  sum. 
president  (of  a  society),  kwaicho, 

gicho, 
president  (of  United  States,  etc.), 

daitoryo. 
pretty,  kirH  (91a),  uts&kushii. 
prevent  (to),  samatageru^   sasenai 

(neg.  causative  of  suru^  to  do)» 
price,  nedattj  ne,  atai. 
prickly  heat,  asebo. 
priest     (Buddhist),     bozu^    bosan^ 

(polite),  shukkej  osho, 
priest  (Shint5),  kannushi. 
prince  (Imperial  Japanese),  miya 

soma, 
prince  (in  general)*  kozoku. 
prison,  toy  a. 
profit,  riekij  moke, 
property,  mochimono ;  (immovable) 

fudosan. 
proportion,  wari-ai. 
Protestantism,  Yaso-kyo, 
provide  (to),  sonaeru. 


pudding,  (o)  kwashi. 

pull  (to),  hiku, 

punish  (to),  tsiimi  suru^  bassuru, 

pupil,  deshi^ 

purpose  (on),  waza-waza. 

purse,  kane-ire^  kinckaku. 

push  (to),  05U. 

put  (to),  oku,  sueru.  ^ 
put  away  (to),  kataznkeru* 
put  in  (to),  ireru, 
put  off  (to),  nobasu, 
put  on  (clothes),  kiru^ 
put  out  (a  light),  ke'su, 
put  up  with,  koraeru. 


quadruped,  kemono^  kedamono, 

quail,  uzura, 

quantity,  kasa^  taka. 

quarrel,  kenkwa. 

quarter  (J),  shi-bun  no  ishi, 

queen  (regnant),  nyotei, 

question,  gimon,  toi. 

quick,  hayai, 

quiet,  shizuka  (na), 

quite,  mattaku. 

R 

race  (horse-),^A«6a. 

railroad,  tetsudo, 

railway  carriage,  kisha. 

rain,  ame, 

rainbow,  wyV. 

rare,  mare  (na), 

rat,  nezumi. 

rather  (somewhat),  zuibun  ;  (on  the 

contrary),  kaette. 
reach  (intrans.  verb),  todokuy  oyobu, 
read  (to),  yomu. 

ready  (to  be),  shitaku  shite  aru. 
ready  money,  genkin, 
reason  (of  a  thing),  wake^  dori. 
rebel,  choteki,  muhon-nin^  zoku. 
receipt,  uke-tori, 
red,  akai, 
refuse  (to),  kotowaru.. 


290 


ANGLO-JAPANESE  VOCABULARY. 


religion,  shukyo,  kyoho,  oskie. 

safe,  daijobu  (««). 

remain  (to),  nokoru^  amaru. 

sail,  Ao. 

remainder,  nokori. 

sailor,  5^nio,  sk^/m. 

remember  (to),  oboeru. 

saint  (Buddhist),  shonin.  : 
salmon,  sake^  shake  (more  colloq.). 

rent  (house-),  yachin. 

rest  (to),  yasumu. 

salt,  shio. 

restaurant,  ryoriya. 

same,  onaju 

revenge,  katakiuchi. 

sample,  mihon» 

rice  (growing),  ine. 

sand,  suna. 

rice  (hulled),  komey  hakumai. 

sandals  (used  indoors),  zorl. 

rice  (boiled),  meshi^  gozen^  gohan, 

sandals  (used  out-of-doors),  waraji. 

0  mamma. 

sash,  obi. 

rich,  kane  mochi  (no). 

Saturday,  Dayobi, 
saucepan,  nabe. 

ride  (to),  noru. 

ridiculous,  okashii. 

saucer,  shtta-zara. 

right  (prober),  n,  honto  (no), 
right  (hand),  migu 

save  (to),  tasukeru. 

say  (to),  iuj  hanasu. 

ring  (intrans.  verb),  naru. 

school,  gakko. 

ring  (trans,  verb),  narasu. 

screen,  bydbu. 

river,  kawa. 

sea,  umi. 

road,  michi. 

sea-sick  (to  be),/«»^  niyou. 

roast  (to),  yaku. 

second  (to)  a  motion,  sansei  suru. 

rock,  iwa. 

secretary,  shoki. 

roll  (intrans.  verb),  korobu. 

sect,  shushif  shumon* 

roll  (trans,  verb),  korobasu. 

see  (to),  miru ;  but  see  p.  245. 

roof,  yane. 

seed,  tane. 

room  (a),  hey  a,  zashtki. 

seem  (to),  mieru. 

root,  (^t  «o)  ne. 

sell  (to),  uru. 

rope,  naz&a. 

send  (to),  tsukawasut  yarn. 

rough,  arm. 

separately,  hanarete^  betsurbetsu  ni. 

round,  marui. 

sermon,  sekkyo,  seppo. 

row  (to),  *o^M. 

servant,  hokonin^  meshi-tsukai. 

rub  (to),  kosuru. 

seven,  nanatsu  ;  but  see  p.  98. 

rub  out  (to),  kesu. 

seventeen,  ju-shtchu 
seventy,  shtchi-ju. 

rudder,  kaji. 

rude,  shikkei  (»a),  shitsurei  (na). 

sew  (to),  nuu. 

rug,  A^«o. 

shade,  shadow,  kage. 

ruins,  koseki. 

shampooer,  amma. 

rumour,  hydban,  ffisetsu,  uwasa. 

shave  (to),  hige  wo  soru  (or  snru). 
she,  ano  htto^  ano  onna. 

run  (to),  kakeru,  kashiru. 

rush  (to),  same  as  the  preceding. 

shelf,  tana. 

Russia,  Orosha. 

shell,  kai. 

rust,  sa&Z. 

shine  (to),  teru* 

ship,/M»^. 

s 

shirt,  shatsu  (from  the  English.) 

shoe,  han-gutsuy  kutsu. 

shoe -horn,  kutsubera.  . 

sacrament,  seireiten. 

shop,  mise. 

sad  (to  be),  kanashimu. 

short,  mijikai. 

short  (of  qtature),  sei  no  htkuu   . 

saddle,  kura*                            .    ^ 

s.                                    291 

shoulder,  kata. 

son,  see  p.  250. 

show  (to),  miscru  ;  but  see  p.  245. 

son-in-law,  muko. 

shut  (trans,  verb),  shimeru. 

song,  uta. 

sick  (to  vomit),  haku,  modosu. 

soon^jiki  ni. 

side,  ho,  kata. 

sour,  suppai. 

south,  mtnami :  south-east,  higashi* 

sights  (of  a  place),  meisko  koseku 

sign,  shirushi. 

minami;  south-west,  nishimina- 

signboard,  kamhan. 

mi» 

silk,  kinu. 

sow  (to),  maku. 

silkworm,  kaiko. 

soy,  shoyu. 

silly,  haka  («a). 

spoil  (to),  sonjiru. 

silver,  gin. 

sparrow,  suzume. 

simple,  tegarui,  wakari-yasui. 

spectacles,  megane. 

since,  kara. 

speculator  (dishonest),  yamashi. 

sing  (birds),  nakti. 

spend  (to),  tsukauj  tsuiyasu. 

sing  (human  beings),  utatu 

spider,  kumo. 

singing-girl,  geisha. 

spine,  sebone. 

sir,  see  p.  252. 

spoon,  saji. 

sister  (elder),  ane. 
sister  (younger),  imoto. 

spring  fto),  tobu. 
spring  (-time),  haru. 

sit  (to),  koshi  wo  kakeru. 

spring  (water),  izunii,  wakimizn. 

six,  mutsn ;  but  see  p.  98. 

springs  (of  a  carriage,  etc.),  bane. 

sixteen,  ju-roku. 

square,  shikaku  (na). 

sixty,  roku-ju. 

staircase,  hashigo-dan. 

size,  di^tsa. 

stand  (intrans.  verb)  tatsu. 

skin,  ^aura. 

star,  hoshi. 

sky,  sara. 

start,  tatsUf  shuttatsu  sum. 

sleep  (to),  «^«. 

state  (condition),  yosn,  arisama. 

sleepy,  nemui. 

steal  (to),  nusumu. 

slide  (to),  suberu. 

steamer,  jcJifelsfw. 

slipper,  uwagutsu. 

steel,  hagane. 

slow,  OSOJ. 

stepmother,  mamahaha,  keibo. 

small,  chiisai,  chiisa  (na). 

stick  (bludgeon),  bo,  tsue. 
stick  (to  adhere),  kuttsnku. 

small-pox,  hoso,  tennenso. 

smell  (a),  nioi. 

sting  (to),  sasu. 

smelly,  kfisai. 

stink  (to),  kusai  (adj.). 

smoke,  ketnuri. 

stomachache  (to  have  a),  hara  ga 

smoke  (to... tobacco),    tabako    wo 

itai. 

nomu. 

stone,  ishi. 

smoothe,  sube-sube  shtta. 

stop  (intrans.  verb),  tomaru. 

snake,  hebi. 

stop  (trans,  verb),  tomeru. 

sneeze  (to),  k&shami  wo  suru. 

store-house,  kura. 

snipe,  shigi. 

storm,  arashi. 

snow,  yuki. 

story  (narrative),  hanashi. 

soap,  shabon  (from   the    Spanish 

straight,  massugu  (na). 

jabon). 

stt3inge,  fUshigi  (na). 

socks,  kutsUtabi, 

stranger,  shiranai  htto. 

soda-water,  sodatnizu. 

straw,  wara. 

soft,  yawarakai,  yawaraka  (na). 

street,  machi,  tori. 

soldier,  heitai^  heishi,  heisotsu. 

strength,  chikara. 

292 


ANGLO-JAPANESE   VOCABULARY. 


Strike  (to),  utsut  butsu. 

ten,  to ;  but  see  p.  g8. 

string,  Ho. 

than,  yori. 

strong,  tsuyoi. 

thank  (to),  o  ret  wo  iu. 

student,  shosei. 

theatre,  sAi^ai. 

stuff  (for  clothes,  etc.),  kire. 

then,  sono  toki. 

stupid,  haka  {na). 

there,  sokOyOsukOf  achira. 

suck  (to),  5UM. 

thermometer,  kandankei. 

sugar,  sato. 

they,  kareray  ano  htto-tachi. 

sugarplum,  (o)  kwashu 

thief,  dorobo. 

suit  (to)  kanau,  ki  ni  iru. 

thin  (to  be),  yasete  iru. 

sum  total,  shime-dakct. 

thing,  see  p.  36—7. 

summer,  natsu. 

think  (to),  omou,  zonjiru. 

sun    (the    actual    luminary),    hi. 

thirsty  (to  be),  nodo  ga  kawaku. 

taiyd,  o  tento  sama  (vulgar), 
sun  (i.e.,  sunlight),  hinata. 

thirteen,  ju-san. 

thirty,  sanjU. 

Sunday,    Nichiyobi,    Dontaku   (a 
vulg.  corrupt,  of  Dutch  Zondag\ 

three,  mitsu ;  but  see  p.  98. 

through,  toshite,  totte. 

supper,  yumeshi. 

throw  (to),  nageru,  horu. 

sutra  (Buddhist),  bukkyo,  o  kyo. 

throw  away  (to),  suteru. 

thunder,  katninari,  rai. 

swim  (to),  oyogu. 

Thursday,  Mokuyobi. 

sword,  katana. 

tie  (to),  shibaru. 

ticket,  kippu. 

tide,    shw:     high—,  tnichi-shio ; 

T 

low  — ,  hiki'Shio, 

tiger,  tora. 

till,  made. 

table,  tsukue,  iefuru  (from  Dutch). 

time,  toki. 

tail,  shippo. 

tin  (the  metal),  suzu. 

take  (to),  toru. 

tin  (a),     burikki,    (from      Dutch 

talk  (to),  hanasuy  hanashi  wo  sum. 

blik). 
tight,  katai. 

tall  (of  suture),  $ei  no  takaU 

taste,  ajiwai. 

tinned  provisions,  kanzume(-mono). 

tax,  zeiy  unjot  nengu* 

tip  (to  a  servant),  sakate. 

tea,  cha. 

tipsy  (to  get),  sake  ni  you. 

tea-cup,  cha-nomijawan. 

tired  (to  get),  kUtabireru. 

tea-house,  chaya. 

to,  yey  ni. 

tea-pot,  kibisho. 

to-day,  konnichi,  kyo  (less  polite). 

teach  (to),  oskieru. 

toe,  (ashi  no)  yubi. 

teacher,  shishdj  kyoshi,  sensei. 

to-morrow,  myonichi^  ashtta  (less 

tear  (trans,  verb),  saku,  yabuku. 

polite). 

tears,  namida. 

tomb,  haka. 

telegram,  dempo. 

tongs  (fire),  hibashi. 

telegraph-office,  denshin-kyoku. 

to-night,  kom-ban. 

telegraphy,  denshin. 

too  (also),^oAfli'i;  (excess),  amari. 

telescope,       to-meganey      boenkyo 

tool,  dogu. 

(learned  style). 

tooth,  ha. 

tell  (to),  i»,  hanasUf  kataru. 

toothache  (to  have  a),  ha  ga  iiai. 

temple  (Buddhist),  (o)  tera, 
temple  (Shinto)^  yashiro,jinja. 

tooth-brush,  yoji. 

tooth-pick,  koyoji. 

T. — ^W. 


«9J 


tooth-powder,  ha-migaki. 

top,  ue  (no  ho). 

torch,  taimatsu, 

tortoise,  kame, 

touch  (to) J  furerut  sawaru, 

towards,  no  ho  ye. 

towel,  tenugui. 

town  (capital),  miyako. 

town  (post-),  shilku, 

town  (seaport),  minato. 

toy,  omocha. 

trade,  akinai,  boeki. 

tram,  tetsudo-basha, 

translate  (to),  hon-yaku  suru. 

travel  (to),  ryoko  suru, 

tjaveller,  tabi-bito, 

tray,  bon, 

tree,  ki,jnmoku  (learned). 

trouble  (to  be  in),  komaru. 

trout,  m,  yamame» 

trowsers,  zubon, 

true,  honto  {no)f  makoto  (no), 

try  (to),  yatte  miru, 

Tuesday,  Kwayobi, 

tunnel,  ana, 

turn  (intrans.  verb),  mawaru, 

turn  (trans,  verb),  mawasu, 

twelve,  jS-Mt. 

twenty,  ni-ju. 

twinSifutago. 

two,  jfitatsu ;  but  see  p.  98. 

typhoon,  arashi^  o-arashi. 


u 

ugly  (to  see),  migurushii. 
umbrella,  komori-gasa. 
unavoidable,  yondokoronai. 
uncle,  oji. 
under,  no  sktta  ni, 
under-clothing,  shltagi, 
understand  (to),  wakaru. 
underwriter,  hokennin,  uke-oinin, 
uniform  (military),  gumpnku. 
United  States,  Gasshukoku, 
university,  daigakn,  daigakko, 
unkind,  funinjoy  fushinsetsu  (na), 
unwholesome  (to  be),  doku  ni  nam. 


upstairs,  nikai, 

up,  no  satisf.  equiv. 

upon,  no  ue  ni, 

use  (to),  tsikau,  mochiiru. 

useful,  choho  (na),  yaku  ni  tatsu, 

useless,  yaku  ni  tatanai. 


vaccination,  ue-boso,  shnto, 

valley,  tani, 

value,  atai,  ne-uchi, 

vase,  hana-ike. 

vegetables,  yasai(-mono). 

velvet,  birddo, 

verandah,  engawa, 

very,  see  pp.  143.4. 

view,  miharashi,  keshiki. 

village,  mwra,  sato, 

vinegar,  su, 

viscount,  shi(-shaku). 

visit  (to  pay  a),  tazunete  kuru, 

visitor,  kyaku, 

volcano,  fun-kwasan. 

volume  (book),  satsu, 

w 

wages,  kyOkin, 

waistcoat,  chokki, 

wait  (to),  matsu, 

wait  (at  table],  kyRji  wo  suru. 

waiter,  kyuji,  boy  (from  English). 

wake  (intrans.  verb),  megasameru, 

wake  (trans,  verb),  okosu. 

walk  (to),  aruku. 

wall  (mud),  kabe;  stone — ishibei, 

want  (to),  hoshii  (adjective). 

war,  iknsa, 

warm,  atatakai,  atataka  (na), 

wash  (to),  arau. 

wash-hand-basin,  chDzu-darai, 

washing  (of  clothes),  sentaku. 

washerman,  sentaku-ya. 

wasp,  hachi, 

watch  (clock),  tokei. 

water  (cold),  mizu. 

water  (hot)  (0)  yu. 


294 


ANGLO-JAPANESE   VOCABULARY. 


water  (mineral  spring),  onsen, 
water-closet,  benjo^  cndzuba^  h 

wind  (to),  maku^  kuru. 

aba- 

window,  mado. 

kari. 

wine,  budoshu,  sake. 

waterfall,  taki. 

wing,  hane. 

wave,  nami. 

winter,  fuyu. 

way  (manner),  yoy  shthata^  ambai. 

wipe  (to),  nuguu^fkku. 

way  in,  kairi-kUchi, 

wire,  harigane. 

way  out,  deguchi. 

wise,  kashikoiy  rikd{na). 

we,  watakushi-domOf  but  see  p 

.46, 

wish  (to),  hoshii  (adj.). 

weak,  yowau 

wistaria,  fuji. 

with  (together),  ^0  tssAo  ni. 

wear  (trans,  verb),  hiru. 

weather,  lenki^  yoki. 

with  (by),  rf^,  tftr  motte. 

Wednesday,  Suiyobi, 

wither  (to),  shibomut  kareru. 

week,  shakan. 

without,  see  p.  126. 

weight,  tnekata. 

wolf,  dkami. 

well  (a),  ido. 

woman,  onna^  fujin  (polite), 
wonderful,  wy5  (im),  fushigi  (wfl), 

well  {.hoAWy),  jobu  (no). 

well  (to  get),  naom. 

mezurashit. 

well  I  mazUy  sate* 

word,  kotoba. 

west,  nishi. 

work  (to),  hataraku. 

wet  (to  be),  nurete  iru. 

world,  sir*flt. 

whale,  kujira. 

worm  (earth-),  mintizu. 

wheat,  komugi. 

wound,  kega,  kizu. 

wheel,  wa,  kuruma. 

wrap  up  (to),  tsutsumu. 

when,  see  IT  57  and  IF  287. 

wrestle  (to),  sumo  wo  toru. 

when  ?  itsu  ? 

write  (to),  kaku. 

where,  tokoro. 

wrong  (adj.),  waruit  machigatta. 

where  ?  dokol 

while,  see  %  57  and  %  389. 

whip,  muchi. 

Y 

white,  shiroi. 

who  ?  dare  ?  donata  ?  (polite), 
whole,  miMfl,  sotai  {no). 
wholesome  (to  be),  kusuri  ni  naru» 

year,  toshi. 
yellow,  ki-iroi. 

why  ?  naze  ?  do  iu  wake  ? 
wick,  shin. 

yes,  see  pp.  228-230. 

yesterday,    sakujitsu,    kino    (less 

wicked,  waruiy  aku  (in  compounds), 
wide,  hiroi. 

polite), 
you,  anata^  omae;  but  see  p.  44. 

widow,  gokey  yamome. 

young,  wakai. 

wife,  tsuma ;  but  see,  p.  250. 

wild,  no  or  yama  prefixed  to 

the 

next  word. 

z 

^Willow-tree,  yanagi. 

win  (to),  katsu. 

zeal,  nesshin. 

wind,  kazc. 

zinc,  totan. 

f  446.       SHORT      PHRASES 


IN 


CONSTANT    USE. 


I.     Amari      mita      koto    ga 

S*«o-«tMr*  havcBeen  faei  (/torn.) 

gozaimasen. 

*   2.     Anata    mazti       do    iu 
go         ryoken    degozaimazu  ? 

wtugnai     &piM4oH  it  f 

/  3.     Arigato    gozaimasu. — Do 

rhanhfui      (I)  am,—        JVmv 

itashimashlte  f 
hm9iHg'49He  f 

4.  Ate        ni    narimasen. 

Mteiiauee    ie    *ee«Mte#-M«f. 

5.  A  to  kara       go       aisatsu 

^Mfierwar^a     nngnBi     anawer 

wo     moshimasho. 
(accus.)    ttill'taff, 

/   6.     Chito  o  kake 

t^'liiile    hoHonrabiif    io^laee 

nasaimashi. 

Jieigaa* 


I    have 
seen  any. 


hardly    ever 


Well,    what    is    your 
opinion  on  the  subject  ? 


Thank        you.— Oh  r 
pray  don't  mention  it. 

He     is     not     to      be 
depended  upon. 

I  will  send  my  answer 
afterwards. 


Pray     sit     down     a 
moment. 


I.  Amari^  conf.  p.  144. — 3.  I.e.,  "You  are  grateful  to  me  for  having 
done  what  ?  "  It  is  still  more  polite  to  substitute  Do  tsukamatsuri- 
mashite  for  Do  itaskimashUe. — 4.  Observe  the  avoidance  of  the 
passive,  and  conf.  p.  igg. — 6.  After  chito  supply  koshi  wo,  *'  the 
loins." 


296 


SHORT  PHRASES  IN  CONSTANT  USE. 


7- 
8. 


Chitto     mo     kamaimasen. 


Chotto     haiken, 
^•^iiile  aa0riM0^0oh  [let  me  do\ 

{Da      ga (famil.) 

^*      {Desu  ga (polite) 

(It)i9^   bni 

10.  Danjite       mimasho, 

€0MuMi^g    (I)  wviU'Bee, 

11.  Do  shimasho  ? 

B0W     BhatHfr0bifbltr^0  f 

12.  Do      shita     ho      ga 

JVtfir        did      aide     (nomJ) 
yokaro ? 
u>iii'pr9habMy^e  g—df 

J  13.     Dochira  ye  irasskaimasu  P 
l^^kere      i0    deigwto'g^  ? 

14.     Doka      nasaimashita  ka  ? 

Sotmelbow       ht^vcdeigued      f 

^15.     Go         husata        itashi- 

wMnguBi  remai$»ue»»  Uave^ 

fnashita. 

dome, 

y    16.     Go         kuro     sama, 

wMngnBi  ir^nbie     •Vr. 


It  doesn't  matter  a 
bit. 

Please  just  let  me 
look. 


Yes,  but. 


I  will  speak    to    him 
about  it. 

What  shall  we  do? 


What  do  you  think 
we  had  best  do  ? 

Where  are  you  going  ? 

Have  you  hurt  your- 
self? or  Is  anything 
the  matter  with  you  ? 

I  have  been  very 
rude  in  not  coming  to 
see  you  for  so  long. 

Thanks  for  your 
trouble. 

(Said  chiefly  to  inferiors.) 


8.  Conf.  p.  262.  g.  Properly  speaking,  this  phrase  should  come  in  the 
middle  of  a  sentence  ;  but  in  familiar  conversation  it  often  begins  one. 
For  ga=^*  but,"  see  p.  65.  The  u  of  desu  is  pronounced  before  ga,  for 
which  reason  we  print  it  in  this  context  without  the  mark  of  short 
quantity. — 10  For  miru  auxiliary,  see  p.  188. — 11  and  12.  The  Japan- 
ese habitually  use  "  how  ?  "  for  "what?"  in  such  phrases  as  these. 
For  ho  see  p.  140. — 13.  For  irasshaimasU,  substitute  ikimasU  in  speaking 
to  an  inferior. — 14.  For  nasaimashita  substitute  shimashita,  or  still 
less  politely  shtta,  in  speaking  to  an  inferior. — 15.  See  p.  241. — 16. 
See  p.  241. — 19.  Yukkuri  is  a  sort  of  noun,  which  the  addition  of  to 
turns  into  an  adverbial  phrase ;  conf.  p.  230. 


SHORT  PHRASES  IN  CONSTANT  USE. 


297 


^ly.     Go        men    nasai, 

wMngnai     €X€u»e  deign, 

18.  Go         mottomo  de  gozai- 

wMuguBii^      right'  i» 

masu    ga...:*. 

but, 

19.  Go        yukkuri  to     itte 

wMngnati^    leiBurelff        g^it^g 

irasshai. 
deigM^i^^e. 

20.  Go  zonji      de  mo 

w^ngHgi       kH099iedge    e^eu 

gozaimasho    ga^ 

probmklft^     aiihrnngU. . . . 

21.  Go        zonji      no  tori. 

wMuguBi  hummeiedge  *b     aray. 

Hakkiri  to  \  wakarimasen, 

Cieari^        HnderBtaMd'Mmt^ 

Hara    ga  itai.     (Familiar.) 
Beilfi  (nom.)  (is)   paiufni. 

24.  Hayaku !    hayaku ! 

€iuiekl^  !         qniehi^  ! 

25.  Hitotsu  '  ikura  P 

One        hawtmneU  f 

26.  Hoka        de      mo     nai 

Oiher^OHMg  even        i0»''i 

ga 

aithmugh,.,. 


22. 


23- 


Please     excuse     me, 
or  I  beg  your  pardon. 

What     you     say     is 
very  true;  still 


Go  slowly.  {A  polite 
phrase  frequently  addressed 
to  one  starting  off  on  a  walk). 

You  probably  know 
that 


As  you  know. 

I     don't    clearly    un- 
derstand. 

I've  got   a   stomach- 
ache. 


Hurry      up !       hurry 


up 


How  much  for  one  ? 

What  I  want   to  say 
is  simply  this: — 


20. and  2T,  Zonji  is  the  indefinite  form,  used  substantively,  of  zonjiru^ 
"to  know.''  Ga  has  here  but  little  meaning.  Similarly  in' No  26. 
For  tori  see  p.  237. — 22.  For  to  see  p.  80.— 23.  The  predicative  adjec- 
tive includes  the  meaning  of  the  verb  **  to  be."  But  if  it  is  desired 
to  make  the  phrase  polite,  itai  must  be  changed  to  ito  gozaimasi; 
conf.  p.  137,  IF  204.— 24.  Supply  the  imperative  koil  "come,"  or 
.  hashireJ  "  run." — 25.  More  grammatically  Hitotsu  wa  ikura  de  goxai- 
masi  ?  The  numeral  hitotsu  will  vary  according  to  the  article  alluded 
to ; — if  a  fan,  then  ip-pon ;  if  a  mirror,  then  ichi-men,  etc. ;  see  p.  104, 
Tf  157  et  seq. 


298        SHORT  PHRASES  IN  CONSTANT  USE 

27.     Ichi-nichi    rusu     desu 


28.  Ikenai     koto     shitnaskUa, 

29.  Ikura       mo  gozaimasen, 

UmwfimueU  even 


30- 


Itsu 


no     koto     deshita  ?  || 
*«      fad        wm§  f 


He    is    {or    will    be) 
away  all  day. 

I've  gone   and    done 
a  stupid  thing. 

There  is  scarcely  any 
I  more. 

When  did  it  happen? 


31.     lya  desuy  yo  ! 

MHaagreeahU  {it)  U  [it)  0h  I 


32.  Kagen        ga  waru  gozai- 

Bodil^Miaie  (nom.)  bad        U* 
tnasH, 

33.  Kara     kore       tarimasho. 

Thai       thit      wUi'-pr0babiw 

v/34.     Kaze      wo     htkimashita. 
Wind  (accus,)  {I)  have'drawuA 


35.     Kazoete      tnireha . . . . 

Vonniiug     •rJbeM(/)«««. 


No,  I  won't;  or  Get 
along  with  you  !  or  None 
of  your  impudence ! 

I  feel  poorly. 


I    think     it 
about  enough. 


will     be 


I  have  caught  cold. 

On     counting    them 
[over,  I  found  that 


27.  Ichi-nichi  means  indifferently  "  one  day  "  or  "  all  day ;  *'  see  IT 
152,  p.  100. — 28.  /*^na/=**no  go,"  **won*tdo;"  conf.  H  317. — 29. 
This  idiom  may  be  explained  thus :  "  There  is  not  even  enough  to 
make' it  worth  asking  bow  much  there  is.'* — 30.  For  the  construc- 
tion itsu  no,  conf.  p.  226. — ^31.  A  phrase  used  chiefly  by  women  of  the 
lower  class. — ^32.  Kagen  is  originally  one  of  the  **  syntheses  of  con- 
tradictories "  noticed  on  p.  32,  ka  meaning  "  increase  *'  (of  bodily 
well-being),  and  gen  "  decrease.'* — ^33.  Kare  kore  is  an  idiom  expressive 
of  approximation,  like  our  *<more  or  less,'*  "pretty  well." — ^34.  The 
English  word  "  a  cold  "  cannot  be  translated  literally  into  Japanese. 
— 35.  MirUf  "to  see,'*  here  has  rather  its  proper  signification,  than 
the  auxiliary  use  explained  on  p.  188.  Moreover  the  conditional  here 
has  the  sense  of  "when...;"  see  179.  'v^ 


SHORT   PHRASES   IN   CONSTAT  USE. 


299 


36.  Kiite  kuru        ga 
ii, 

37.  Kikashlte        }kudasai, 

CauBiMg'iO'hear  eAdegeend, 

38.  Kimi        ga      warui. 
]PeetiMg»     (nom.)     {are)bad, 

39.  Kochira  ye        o  tori 

Mere     to  hoHmmtrmbifi  ie^att 

nasai, 
^ieigm 

40.  Kokoromochi    ga    warui 

BeMl^feeitMgB  {nom,)  {are)bad. 

41.  Komatta       koto  desii. 
l¥*mg^oihered    faei     i». 

/  42.     Komban       wa  / 

VhU-mighi     m^far  I 

43.     Kondate       wo       misete 

Biii^f'fmre  (accus,)   Bkowing 
kudasai, 
eoHdetceud, 

J  44.     Konnichi     wa  / 
VhiB'daif    at'f&r  I 


You    had     better    go 
and  ask.     [Familiar.) 


Please  tell  me. 

It    quite    makes    me 
shudder.     (Familiar,) 

Please  come  in  here. 
(The  formula  used  to  invite 
a  guest  in), 

I  feel  unwell. 


It  is  a  nuisance. 
Good  evening! 

Please   show   me  the 
bill  of  fare. 

Good  day  1  or  How  do 
you  do  ? 


36  Ton,  which  is  the  proper  word  for  "  to  ask,"  is  almost  always 
thus  replaced  in  the  mouths  of  TokyO  speakers  by  kikut  properly 
"to  hear.*'  For  kuru  as  an  auxiliary,  see  p.  187. — 37.  Kikashite 
should,  strictly  speaking,  be  kikasete,  but  see  N.  B.  to  p.  208. — 
38.  Observe  how  Japanese  prefers  the  intransitive  to  the  transitive 
construction,  of  which  *'  it  *'  is  the  subject  in  English,  and  conf.  p. 
272  for  this  marked  feature  of  the  language. — 41.  The  use  of  the  past, 
where  the  present  would  seem  to  us  more  natural,  is  idiomatic  here. 
42.  Some  polite  phrase  must  be  mentally  supplied ;  but  it  is  never  ex- 
pressed, unless  it  be  some  such  hackneyed  remark  about  the  wea- 
ther as  (Komban  wa,)o suzushiu gozaimasv,  "What  a  pleasantly  cool 
evening  it  is!  "  etc. — 44.  Same  remark  as  that  concerning  No. 42. 


300 
45- 
46. 


SHORT  piRASES  IN  CONSTANT  USE. 


Kore     de     takUsan, 
Kore  de  yoroshiija  nai  ka? 

TMa  fty,      good  itf^i  f 


47- 


Kore  wa,       nan 

TMm  at'for^    ufhai 

dekite  orimasu  ? 

eiBeuinaiiug  U  f 


de 


nt 

to 


48.     Kore      wUf        nani 

Thi§      a§*for^        whai 

tsukaimasu  ka  ? 
{do  people)  n»e  (I)  f 


49.  Kore        waj  0 

rM»         aM'fort       hoa$09Hrahie 

jama  wo    itashintashita 

iampedtmeui  {accus.)      haoo'done, 

50.  Kore     wa,        shikkei  / 

rhia     affoTf  {it  is)  rudeueMB, 

51.  Kore    waj  yoku        o 

VM»  a»»for^  nfelt  kouonrabt^ 

deki  ni  narimashita, 

eveaUuaiioM   io  h€U^eeome» 

52.  Mada  yohodo    aida     ga 

sail      pieuiw  iHieroai  {nom.) 
arimasu. 

53.  Mae    ni    mo    itta    tori. 

Before     iu     aito     taid    iray. 

54.  Maido         go        yakkai 

Xaeh'iime    angnti    OMBiataHee 

(sama)    desu, 

(ATr.)  it. 


This  is  quite  enough. 
Won't  this  do  ? 


What    is    this    made 
of? 


What  is  this  used 
for?    ' 

dh!  excuse  me  for 
having  inconvenienced 
you. 

(Used  as  a  polite  phrase  on 
concluding  a  visit.) 

Oh !  pray  excuse  me 
for  being  so  rude.  . 

You  have  done  this 
beautifully. 


There   is   still   plenty 
of  time. 


As 
said. 


I     have    already 


I  am  much  obliged  to. 
you  for  your  constant 
kindness. 


45.  Supply  de  gozaimasu  at  the  end. — 46.  For  ja  see  p.  62. — 47.  For 
intransitive  dekirti^  corresponding  to  passive  **  is  made,"  see  IT  310. — 50. 
Supply  itaskimashita  at  the  end. — 54r  Conf..  p.  241; 


SHORT  PHRASES  IN  CONSTAKt  l^B. 


301 


o 


y  55.     Makoto    ni      moshi-wake 

Truth         in,  eM€wum 

ga    gozaitnasen, 
(nom.)  i$'n0t*  ^/v  u ,  ],  .; 

y  56.     Makoto  ni      shibaraku. 

softly         90tme'Utme  (is.) 

57.  Mappira        go        men 

Qntte^Hail^    fiuguMt    pardon 

nasai, 
deigH, 

58.  Maru    de    betsu  na      n* 

Completely    ditfereHt      one 

desu, 
u, 

y  Sg.     Mata       irasshai, 

wMgain     deig»t^t0'e0afe» 

60.  Mata  o  hayaku 

wMgaiu    hmHenrabt^    quieUM^ 

o  kaeri      nasaimashi, 

hoHeurahlff  ta-^einrn       deigu* 

61.  Mazu        sore-kkiri        de 

l^eii^  that  0Hiw 

gozaimasu, 

(is)  U. 

62     Memboku       ga     nai. 
CenHteaaaee  (nom.)    Un''t* 
(More  politely  gozaitnasen.) 

^63.     Michi         wo  oshiete 

Mtoad        (accus,)        teaehiag 
kudasai. 

eeudeaeeud* 

1/  64.    Mina      san      ni      doha 

wMit       JWe»B*rB     te      pieaae 

yoroshiku. 
wteil  (say,) 


Really  I  know  not 
what  excuse  to  offer. 

It  is  quite  a  long  time 
since  we  last  met. 

I  humbly  beg  your 
pardon  ;  or  Please  be  so 
good  as  to  excuse  me. 

It  is  a  totally  dif- 
ferent one. 


Please  come  again. 

Please  come  back  soon 
again. 

Well,    that    is  about 
all. 

I  feel  ashamed. 


Please    tell    me    the 
road. 


Please  remember  me 
kindly  to  all  your  people. 


56.  See  p.  262. — 58.  For  »*  see  p.  77.  The  quasi-adjective  (see  p. 
131)  betsu  na  is  more  usually  betsu  no ;  but  the4)resence  of  n'  (for  no) 
immediately  after  it  here  causes  na  to  be  preferred.— 61.  For  kkiri  see 
p.  224.-62.  Compare  our  phrase  '*  to  be  put  out  of  countenance." — 
64.  At  the  end  supply  itte  kudasai^  •'  pleass  say.*'— 66.  We  may  ex- 
plain this  phrase  thus:  "  It  has  come  to  this,  that  all  are  gone." 


302 

6s 


SHORT  PHRASES  IN  CONSTANT  USE. 


Minai         furi 
shite. 


66.     Mo       mina 

wMtreadf/       ali 

mashita, 

heeouBC* 

^  67.     Mo 
narimasen. 


nt 


wo 
(accus.) 


nart- 


ikanakereba 


'68.    Mo 

wMiread^ 


nan-jt 


nt 


narimasu     ka  ? 

beeotmeB         f 

69.     Mo        shimai, 

•^Iread^     end  {is,) 

>/  70.     Mo        takusan. 

wMiread^   pieni^  (is.) 

71.     Mo  yaku 

wdutfMm0re     naefnlHeat 

tachimasen. 

atandB^uot. 


nt 
*0 


72.  Mo     yoroshii.    (Familiar.) 
tMireadtf  (is)  gmod. 

Mo  yoroshiu  gozaimasu,  (Polite.) 

73.  MOshi'kanete     orimasu, 
ro»»aif^i$mble  am. 


Pretending      not     to 
see. 


It     is    all    done;    or 
There  are  no  more. 


I  must  be  off  now. 


What  o'clock  is  it  ? 

I    have   finished ;    or 
They  are  all  done. 

That   is  plenty;  or  I 
don't  want  any  more. 

It  is  no  longer  of  any 
use. 

That    will   do;    or    I 
don't  want  any  more. 

I    can     hardly    bring 
myself  to  say  the  words. 
(Said  in  asking  for  some- 
thing.) 


67.  This  phrase  is  used  only  when  the  necessity  is  genuine  and 
strong;  conf.  p.  170. — 60.  More  literally  "  What  o'clock  is  it  already 
becoming?" — 69  and  70.  Supply  desii. — 72.  A  highly  elliptical 
phrase,  somewhat  as  if  one  were  to  say  "  It  is  all  right  without  it.** — 
73.  For  kaneru  see  p,  197. 


SHORT  PHRASES  IN  CONSTANT  VSE. 


303 


74.     Motto         o  make 

•Wore,  kQH0Hrabip  t^^heapeu 

nasai. 


75 


Nai       koto       wa        nai 

MaH*t         faei       Off^r,     4»m*t 

(desu). 
{is.) 

76.  Naka-naka  shochi  shimasen, 

Foaiiiwel^  e0iueHi  doea^n^i^ 

77.  Nan      de      mo     yoroshii, 
'MW%ai     fty     €9€m      (is)  good. 

(More  politely  yoroshiu  gozaimasu), 

78.  Nan     desk  ? 

79.  Nan     to     osshaimasu? 

1V*iba<   ihai    d€igfUh'»n9  f 

80.  Nanzo  omoshiroi 

Souteih^g'or'^ther     amn^aiug 

hanashi'  ga    gozaimasen  ka  ? 
ialh     {nom.)        ivn—i  f 

81.  Nodo    ga  kawakimashita, 

Vhroai  (nom.)  haamdried, 

82.  O         hay 6  gozaimasu. 

MoMonrmhtw  earif/  it, 

83.  O       itoma    tndshimashd. 


84.     O  kage  sama  de, 

Momonrabie  ahade  tWr,    hf/* 


Please    go    down     a 
little  more  in  your  price. 


There    is    some ;     or 
There  is  somcy 


He  won't  hear  of  it. 


Anything  will  do. 

What  is  it  ?  or  What 
is  the  matter  ?  or  What 
did  you  say  ? 

What  do  you  say  ? 

Can't  you  tell  us 
something  amusing? 


I  feel  thirsty. 

Good  morning. 

I    think      I    must   be 
going. 

By    your      kind     in- 
fluence. 


74.  Makeru  is  literally  '*to  be  vanquished,'*  hence  *'  to  come  down 
in  price." — 75.  For  the  syntax  of  double  negatives,  see  p.  264. — 77. 
Nan  de  mo,  though  representing  the  English  word  **  anything,"  is  not 
the  subject  of  the  sentence.  The  sentence  is  subjectless,  and-  nan  de 
mo  is  an  indirect  object  corresponding  to  the  Latin  ablative  denoting 
causation  or  instrumentality, — 82.  It  is  of  course  absurd  to  use  this 
phrase,  as  foreigners  sometimes  do,  in  the  afternoon. 


304 


SHORT   PHRASES   IN   CONSTANT  USE. 


85.  O  kage  sama,  sukkari 
naorimashlte  gozaimasu, 

recovered  mm, 

86.  O  kangae  noue^  ina 

Bmrnmnrmhik  reMetiimm'^M  Upt  nap 

yano    go    hento    wo     ukagai- 

f    *B  mmguBi  reptm  (accii$.)   (I)  ufiii' 
masii, 
enqnires* 


87.    o 

B[0»»anrabie 

gozattnasU. 


kinodoku  de 


J  88.     O  machido     sama, 

89.  0  .    tnatase-moshi' 

B0m0Hraki§f  hnviufg^mmaed^imm 

mashite,  makoto   ni  ai-sumi- 
wmiif        imih        4h  mminaiiw 

masen, 

90.  0  naka    ga    suki- 

Ja0uourmbie     4m»40K4  [nom.]    hm§- 

mashita.  . 

beeome'emtpiif.    (Familiar.) 
-  91.     0  tomo      itashi- 

masho, 

prmhmlUffdo* 

92.    O  toshi        mose. 


I  am  quite  well  again, 
thanks    for    your     kind 


enquiries. 

/    More  lit. 
\influcnce. 


Thanks  to  youf 


Kindly  think  the 
matter  over,  and  let 
me  have  an  answer  one 
way  or  the  other. 

I  am  sorry  for  it  on 
your  account. 

Excuse  me  for  keeping 
you  waiting  so  long. 

Really  I  know  not 
what  excuse  to  offer 
for  having  kept  you 
waiting  so  long. 


I  feel  hungry. 


I    should   like   to    go 
with  you. 


Show  the  guest  in. 


85.  Strict  grammar  would  require  de^  '*  by,"  after  sama,  Naorima- 
shite  gozaimasU  is  more  polite  than  simple  naorimashtta  would  be. — 
86.  **  Reflection's  top  "  is,  after  all,  not  so  very  different  from  our 
phrase  "  on  reflection.*'  Instead  of  saying  "  an  answer  yes  or  no,"  the 
Japanese  phrase  mentions  the  negative  only.-^g.  More  polite  than 
the  preceding  number.  For  ntdsu  as  a  humble  auxiliary,  see  p.  243.-^ 
go.    For  o  naka,  see  p,  242. 


SHORT  PHRASES  IN  CONSTANT  USE. 


305 


93.     O         tsuide  no     sctsu> 

MoMOfrabie  oeeaaion  *#  opporiuniiw, 

(/'94.     O  yasumi        nasai 

M0uttrahi^    i0^€»i  deign, 

{-masht). 

95.  Okashtkute      tamatanai, 

JBeiMg^ftutH^f     {I)eu0t»re'Hoi> 

96.  Oki  nu     o         sewa  sama 

Greait^  hma—nrabUe  *heip  JfMr, 

ni     7iarifhashUa, 
§0    (I)ha9e^eeom€* 

97.  Oki  ni  osoku  narimashita, 

Oreatl^      taie     have^teeemie, 

98.  0-sawagi     deshita, 

99.  Oshii      koto  desuy     ne  I 

Megreiiable  ihhtg  it,       im^i'iif 

100.  Osoroshii     domo     michi 

Wrighifni      really     road 

ga     warui.     (Familiar.) 
{noni.)  (is)had. 

lot,     Osoroshii  takai  mon'  da. 

JFrighifmi  dear    ihiug  i», 

(Familiar.) 

102.     O'Warai       shimashtia, 

Great'tawghter      (we)i 


Whenever  it  happens 
to  suit  your  convenience. 

Good  night. 


It  is  really  too  funny. 

I  am-  much  indebted 
to  you  for  your  kind 
assistance. 

Excuse  me  for  being 
so  late. 

All  was  bustle  and 
confusion. 

Oh !   What  a  pity ! 


How    frightfully    bad 
the  road  is ! 


It  is  frightfully  dear. 

We  had  a  good  laugh 
over  it. 


92.  The  use  of  mdse  here  shows  that  a  person  who  is  your  in- 
ferior is  to  do  something  for  one  politely  considered  your  superior, 
93. 1,  e.,  "  Don't  take  trouble  about'it;  but,  should  the  occasion  offer, 
etc.'' — 94.  It  is  optional  to  omit  the  termination  rnasht  in  all  cases. 
95.  Conf.  II  218. — 96.  As  if  one  should  say,  **I  have  come  in  for  a  great 
deal  of  your  help."  Oki  ni  means  **  greatly;"  okiku  means  "big(ly)." 
— 100.  In  strict  grammar  we  should  have  osoroshtku^  not  osoroshii ;  but 
see  top  of  p.  121.  As  shown  by  this  example  and  the  last,  the  Japan- 
ese turn  in  quite  a  different  manner  our  exclamatory  phrases  begin- 
ning with  "what "  and  •'  how." — loi.  Afon'  is  familiar  for  mono. 


..ii*^ 


3o6 


SHORT  PHRASES   IN   CONSTANT   USE. 


103.  Sakuhan    wa,     yoppite 

WjaMi-'nishi  aB'fort 

neraremasen  deshtta. 

eamHOi'Bleep   (it)  ««#• 

104.  Sayo  de  gozattnasu,  (Polite.) 
So  desUf  or  So  da.     (Familiar.) 

105.  Senjitsu     wa    arigato 

JFarmetT'da^  twforf  ihawAfmi 

gozaimashita, 

v/  106.     Shlkata  ga    nai.  \  i^^^^ 

gozai' 
masen, 


MBoiMffBide  (nom.)  Uu^i, 

Shiyo        ga      nai, 
J^piug^wa^  [nom.)  iMm*i, 


t/  107. 
i/    108. 

^  log. 
no. 


Shitsurei  itashimashita. 


So 

S0 


desic 
u 


ka? 


So  ka  mo     shiremasen, 

S0     f     even  iBfMknmwttble, 

So  ^  ka    to        omoehay 

80  '  f     ih^i    if-^Me-ikimMgf 


kaette 

e0uirarimi§e* , 


111,  So     shicha        ikenai. 

So  affor»0t0iHg^f  c0UHOi»00, 

(More  politely  ikemasen.) 

112.  So  ja  gozaimasen, 

S0  4»'B»0t, 


I    couldn't    sleep    all 
last  night. 


That  is  so ;  or  Yes. 

Many  thanks  for  your 
kind  entertainment  the 
other  day. 

(A  Iways  said  on  first  again  meet-\ 
ing  the  giver  of  a  recent  party. } 

There  is  nothing  to 
be  done;  or  It  can't 
be  helped. 

Excuse  my  rudeness. 

Is  that  so?  or  Oh! 
indeed. 

Possibly  it  may  be  so. 

One  is  tempted  to 
think  so,  and  yet  on  the 
other  hand 


You  mustn't  do  that. 


That    is    not    so;   or 
Oh!    no. 


103.  Deshtta  might  be  omitted  without  mutilating  either  the 
sense  or  the  grammar ;  but  the  Japanese  like  thus  to  round  off  the 
sentence  with  an  auxiliary  verb,  if  possible ;  conf.  p.  192. — 104.  Conf. 
p.  229. — 109.  More  literally  "  One  cannot  tell  whether  it  is  (not)  so." 
In  vulgar  parlance  the  phrase  often  runs  thus:  So  ka  skira  (for 
shiran). — no.  See  bottom  of  p.  259  for  a  similar  construction. — in. 
More  lit.    "  It  won't  do,  if  you  do  that." 


SHORT   PHRASES   IN   CONSTANT    USE 


113.  Sonna  morC     desii. 

Suck     ihiug        it. 

114.  Sonnara,  o  yo- 
shi  nasai, 

wiai    deigH* 

115.  Sono    gOy     hisashiku 

rhai  after^     iemgihUw 

o  me    ni   kakarimasen, 

hmnmnrmbie  e^et  4h      (I)kamg'n»i* 

Itsu     mo      go      soken    de,.., 

wdlwa^B   anguMil^ robugi   being,, 

116.  Sono    ho      wa      6 

Thai  Bide  affor^nwm»erent 

gozaimasu, 
mure, 

117.  Sore    wa    so   degozai 

Vhai  affmTf  te  it. 

masu. 


307 

That  is  just  about  it. 

Well   then,   don't  do 


it. 


It  is  some  time  since 
we  last  met.  I  am 
delighted  to  see  you 
looking  so  well. 

There  are  more  of 
that  kind  than  of  the 
others. 

That  is  so;  or  Yes, 
no  doubt. 


118. 


119. 
tori, 

«ra§f. 

120. 


Sore    wa  so  desu  ga 

Vbtti  at' for,  to  it  tthereat, . . 

Sude  ni  moshi-agemashita 

^treadw         tell'liftedttp 


Sukoshi  mate, 
^'iiitie    teait. 


(Familiar) 


y/     121. 

nasai, 

deign. 


Sukoshi  0  machi 

^'iiiiie  hoHonrablif  io-meaii 


122.     Taigai  wakarimashita, 

•IMottl^  have^wmdertiood. 


Yes,  but. 


As  I  have  already 
had  the  honour  to  in- 
form you. 

Wait  a  minute. 


(Do.   polite.) 


I  understand  mdSt  of 


115.    Supply  at  the  end  some  such  phrase  as  o  medetd  gozai^H 
**it  is  a  subject  for  congratulation." — 116.  See  p.  140. — 122.    Ti^ 
past  tense  here  idiomatically  replaces  the  present. 


3o8 


SHORT  PHRASES  IN  CONSTANT  USE. 


123.     Taiso    nigiyaka    de    go- 
zaimashtta. 


124.  Te        wo       nratte 

Mauds  (accus.)  ha9i»g'wa»hed 

kimasho, 

9e4ll^r0babi§f^0me, 

125.  To    mo  kaku  mo      go 

Vhai  ewem^  ihut  ««eM,  mmgnti* 

ran  ndsai.  . 

gMmmee  deign* 

126.  Totemo  iketnasen. 
Wake    no      wakaranai 

Mtemfu  0f  mudergimmd'Hoi 


127. 

koto. 

thing. 

128. 

ka? 


Wasure-mono    wa     nai 

JForgei'thing    affar^  4Bn*i 


129. 


Watakushi   ni     kwankei 

•We  toy  e^nneeiion 

ga    nai. 

(nom.)  4§n*i, 

130.  Yd    gozaimasu  to    mo  / 

Good  is  thai  eoen ! 

131.  Yohodo  ii    kiryo        desH, 

l*€ry    good  conntenanee  is* 

132.  Yoi    ambai     ni.,.. 

Good  condition  in. .... 


It  was  very  lively. 


I  think    ril   go    and 
wash  my  hands. 


At    any    rate     please 
just  look  at  it. 


It  won't  do  at  all. 


Something  I  can't  at 
all  make  out. 


Are    you     sure    you 
have  forgotten  nothing  ? 
{Familiar.) 

It  has  nothing  to  do 
with  me.     (Familiar.) 

Of  course   it  will   do 
quite  well. 

She  is  very  pretty  in- 
deed. 

It  is  fortunate  that... 


125.  To  mo  kaku  mo  is  an  idiom  meaning  "  at  any  rate,"  **  in  any 
case." — 127.  A  good  example  of  the  ambiguous  relative  phrases 
discussed  in  p.  56,  IT  82.  It  is  not  the  thing  that  does  not  under- 
stand, but  I  who  cannot  understand  the  thing. — 130.  To  mo  final= 
♦*  of  course." 


SHORT  PHRASES  IN  CONSTANT  USE. 


309 


133.  Yoi  mi-harashi  desilf  ne  I 

Oo0d        ifiew  igfeh  f 

134.  Yoi  mono  wo  0 

O^od  iUiug  (accus.)  hoa—nrahiw 
tnotome    nasaimashita, 
to'Mcek'oni    haioe'deigned, 

^135.     Yoi  tenki  de  gozaimasu, 

Good-weaiher  4t, 

136.     Yoppodo  domo  omoshiroi 

W*ery    indeed  am^nuiug 

hanashi  de  gozaimasu, 
Mi0r9  [it)  i§, 

v/137.     Yoroshiu        gozaimasu 

aood  49 

ka  ? — Yo  gozaimasu. 

f         G0od        U. 

138.  Yosaso         ni  omoi- 

MAheitriO'^e'good  io       (/) 

masu.    ' 

139.  Yoshita     ho      ga      yo- 

MfetiMied    tide  (nom)    wtiN" 
karo. 
pr9habtfr'h  e^gmod* 

140.  Zosa        ga     nai, 
J9iMcuUy  (nom.)  4mm* t. 


What 
view ! 


a      beautiful 


What  a  beautiful  thing 
that  is  which  you  have 
bought ! 

It  is  fine  weather. 
(A  phrase  used  on  accosting 
any  one  in  fine  weather*) 

It  is  really  a  most 
amusing  stpry. 


Is  it  all  right  ?— Yes. 


I      should      think     it 
would  do. 


I  think  it  will  be  best 
to  give  up  the  idea. 

There  is  no  difficulty 
about  it.      (Familiar,) 


138.  Japanese  idiom  requires  ni  in  such  phrases,  when  the  ad- 
jective of  probability  (.  ,so  no)  is  turned  into  an  adverb  by  the  fact  of  a 
verb  following. — 1139.  Past  tense  used  idiomatically  for  the  present ; 
conf.  p.  171.  140.  More  politely,  Zosa  gozaimasen. 


^f  447.       ADDITIONAL  USEFUL 
PHRASES. 


I.  A  no  hito  no  iu  koto  wa, 
mina  iiso  desu, 

2/  Ano  hito  no  na  wUy  nan  to 
iimasu  ? 

3'.  Ashita  wa  yo  ga  gozaimasu 
kara,  keiko  wo  yasumimasho. 

4.  CJiitto  wa  hanashi  no  tane 
ni  narimasho. 

5.  Daihu  kata-kage  -m  natte 
kimashtta  kara^  soro-soro  *de- 
kakemasho, 

6.  Daibu  niwa  no  sakura  ga 
saki-kakcmashtta  kara,  tsugi 
no  Nichiyo  atari  ni  wa  Muko- 
jima  ga  chodo  yoroshiu  gozai- 
masho. 


Every  word  that  fel- 
low says  is  a  lie. 

What  is  his  name  ? 
(more  lit.  What  do  peo- 
ple say  that  his  name  is?) 

I  shall  be  too  busy  to 
study  to-morrow. 

It  will  be  something 
to  talk  about. 

There  is  a  good  deal 
of  shade  in  many  places; 
so  I  shall  begin  to  think 
of  going  out. 

A  good  many  cherry- 
blossoms  have  begun  to 
come  out  in  the  garden  ; 
so  I  suppose  Mukojima 
will  just  be  at  its  best 
about  next  Sunday. 


I.  For  a  good  example  of  a  similar  construction  with  no,  see  p.  59, 
.beginning  Senjitsu  0  hanashi, — 2.  For  to  iu  see  p.  55  and  p.  80. — 5. 
The  auxiliary  kimashtta  makes  the  phrase  paint  or  photograph,  as 
it  were,  the  gradual  oncoming  of  the  shade.  Simple  natta  would  be 
a  very  flat  substitute  for  compound  natte  kimashtta;  conf.  p.  192. 
6.  For  kakeru  see  p.  213.  Mukojima  is  a  part  of  T0ky5  celebrated 
for  its  avenue  of  cherry-trees.  Observe  the  manner  in  which  the  two 
clauses  are  connected  by  kara^ — lit.  "  because  the  cherry-trees  have 
partially  blossomed,  etc." 


ADDITIONAL   USEFUL   PHRASES. 


3" 


7.     Do  ka  ko  ka  tsugo  ga  deki 
masu. 


8.  £>6ka  Yokohama  made  no 
joto  ofukU'gippu  wo  ichi'tnai 
kiidasai. 


g.     Domo  /  ka  ni  sasarete,  nete 
?no  ne-tsukarenai. 


10.     Furiso   desu   kara,  yoshi- 
masho. 


11.  Hidoi furi  ni  natte  kima- 
shit  a,  Shikashi,  yudachi  desu 
kara,  jiki  akarimasho,    ■ 

12.  Hitori  de  hon-yari  shite 
orimashita  kara,  nemuku  nari- 
tnashita. 

13.  It  no  ga  nakerebttf  fnaru 
de  yoshimasho, 

14.  li-tsuketa  tori  ni  shinai 
no  wa,  do  shita  \horC  da  ? 


We  shall  be  able  to 
manage  it  somehow  or 
oth^r.  , 

Please  give  me  a  first- 
class  return  ticket  to 
Yokohama. 

I  havelain  down,  but. 
I  can't  get  to  sleep, — I 
am  so  terribly  bothered 
by  the  mosquitoes. 

It  looks  like  rain ;  so 
I  think  I  will  give  up 
(the  idea  of  the  excursion,  etc.). 

It  has  come  on  to  rain 
hard.  Still,  as  it  is  only 
a  thunder-shower,  I  sup- 
pose the  sky  will  soon 
clear  up  again. 

I  was  so  dull  all  by 
myself,  that  I  got  quite 
sleepy. 

If  there  are  no  good 
ones,  I  won't  take  any 
of  any  kind. 

Why  didn't  you  do  as 
I  ordered  you  ? 


7.  Do  ka  ko  ka  is  an  idiom  meaning  "somehow  or  other,"  "by 
hook  or  by  crook."  If  for  dekimasu  were  substituted  dekimasho,  the 
phrase  would  signify  "  I  think  we  shall  be  able,"  etc. — 8.  KippM,  "  a 
ticket,"  takes  the  auxiliary  numeral  ma/,  because  a  ticket  is  a  flat 
thing;  see  p.  106. — 11.  For  akarimasho  many  prefer  to  say  agari- 
masho,  "it  will  probably  lift." — 13.  For  no  ga  conf.  If  112  and 
H  137. — 14.  Do  shita  mon^  da  ?  here  translated  "  why  ?  "  would  be 
more  literally  rendered  by  "  what  sort  of  conduct  is  (this)  ?  " 


312 


ADDITIONAL   USEFUL   PHRASES 


15.     Iki'fiari  sonna  koto  wo  iu 
to.  do  shite  mo  wakarimasen. 


16.     Ikura   kake-aUe  mo,   sho- 
chi  shimasen. 


17.  Ima-doki  sono  yd  na  koto 
wa  sukunai.  Yoshi !  atta  to 
shita  tokoro 
wa  aimasen. 


ga,  tdji  no  ton  ni 


18.     jfiko-gara  de,  asa-ban  wa 
suzushiku  fiarimashita. 


19.     Kana  wa  silkoshi   wakari- 
masu  ga, — ji  wa  yomemasen. 


That  couldn't  possibly 
be  understood  without 
some  previous  reference 
to  the  subject. 

All  my  talking  hasn't 
succeeded  in  getting  him 
to  consent. 

Very  little  of  that  sort 
of  thing  goes  on  now- 
adays ;  and  even  sup- 
posing there  to  be  in- 
stances of  its  occur- 
rence, it  doesn't  suit  the 
spirit  of  the  age. 

We  are  getting  on  in 
the  season,  and  so  the 
mornings  and  evenings 
have  become  cool. 

I  understand  •  the  Ka- 
na a  little,  but  I  can't 
read  the  Chinese  cha- 
racters. 


15.  Iki-nari,  "abruptly,"  "disconnectedly." — 17.  SUkunait  is  al- 
ways predicative,  as  here  ;  see  p.  268.  But  it  is  generally  convenient 
to  reverse,  as  has  here  been  done,  the  order  of  the  ideas,  when  trans- 
lating a  clause  containing  sukunai  into  English.  Yoshi,  the  conclusive 
form  (see  p.  119)  of  the  adjective  yoi,  "  good,"  is  here  used  as  an 
exclamation,  but  forms  from  the  grammatical  point  of  view  a  sentence 
by  itself.  To  shita  tokoro  ga  is  an  idiom  meaning  "  granting 
that.. .."  18. — Gara^  suffixed  to  a  noun,  indicates  "kind,"  "nature," 
here  "  cause,"  very  much  like  the  postposition  kara,  "  because," 
of  which  it  is  probably  but  a  nigori'td  form. — 19.  Kana,  see  p.  g. 
Notice  the  force  of  the  two  z&a's,  acting  like  Greek  \iiv  and 
j£  :  ^^ As  for  the  Kana,  I  understand Mt  a  little;  hut  as  for  the 
Chinese  ideographs,  I  can't  read  them  at  all."  A  European  would 
probably  erroneously  use  the  accusative  particle  wo  in  this  place, 


ADDITIONAL  USEFUL  PHRASES. 


313 


20.  Kake-ne  wo  iwanai  de, 
honto  no  nedan  wo  itte  ku- 
dasai. 

21.  Keiko  wo  sum  ni,  do  iu 
ambai  ni  hajimetara  yokaro  ? 

22.  Ketchaku  no  tokoro  wa, 
ikura  made  makarimasu  ka  ? 

23.  Kiga  ye  iku  michi  wa, 
dochira  de  gozaimasu  ? 

24.  Kitto  kuru  yd  ni  so  itte 
koi. 


25.  Komhan  wa  taiso  hie- 
masu  kara,  yagu  wo  mashUe 
kudasai. 

i€,  Komhan  wa  taiso  ka  ga 
dete  kita  kara,  kaya  wo  tsutte 
kudasai. 


27.  Komhan  wa  yakwai  ni 
manekareta  kara,  reifuku  no 
shifaku  wo  suru  ga  ii. 


28.     Konna    tansu 
de  kaemasU  ? 


wa. 


doko 


Don't  ask  fancy  prices. 
Tell  me  the  true  price, 
please. 

What  is  the  best  way 
to  begin  studying? 

What  is  the  very  lowest 
price  you  will  go  down 
to? 

Which  is  the  road  to 
Kiga? 

Go  and  tell  him  to  be 
sure  to  come. 

It  is  very  chilly  to- 
night; so  please  put  on 
some  more  blankets. 

There  are  lots  of  mos- 
quitoes to-night ;  so 
please  put  up  the  mos- 
quito-net. 

You  mtist  put  out  my 
dress-clothes,  as  I  am  in- 
vited out  to  a  party  this 
evening. 

Where  can  one  buy 
such  cabinets  as  these  ? 


instead  of  wa.  Notice  how  the  Japanese  construction  omits  both 
the  nominative  '*  I,'*  and  the  accusatives  "  it  '*  and  "  them." — 18.  For 
the  important  subject  of  the  rendering  of  indirect  quotations,  see  p. 
268. — 21.  Lit.,  *'  in  doing  practice,  it  will  probably  be  good  if  one 
began  in  what  sort  of  .manner?" — 22.  Lit.,  "as  for  the  place  of 
decision,  etc." — 24.  Conf.  p.  269,  ^  436. — 28.  For  such  intransitives 
as  kaeru^  '*  to  be  buyable,"  see  p.  200  et  seq. 


3H 


ADDITIONAL  USEFUL  PHRASES. 


29.  Kono  muko    no     tsuki- 
atari  way  doko  desu  ? 

30.  Kore  kara  saki  no  michi 
wa,  do  desu  ? 

31;      Kore  kara 
kakemasu. 


undd  ni  de- 


32.  Mada    motte     kimasen 
gUj — am   ni   wa  arimasu, 

33.  Mazu  konnichi  wa^  kore 
made  ni  itashite  okimasho, 

34.  Mijikai   no  mo    areba, 
nagai  no  mo  gozaimasu. 

35.  Moshi  I  koko  wa  nan  to 
iu  tokoro  desho  ? 

36.  Nan    to    mo    ii-yo    ga 
gozaimasen. 

37.  Nani    ka    futsugo    ga 
shojimashita    to  miete 


38.  Nan-nen  hakari  keiko 
shttara,  hanashi  ga  dekiru  yd 
ni  narimasho  ka  ? 


Where  does  this  lead 
to? 

How  is  the  road  ahead  ? 

I  am  going  out  now  to 
take  some  exercise. 

Although  they  haven't 
brought  them  yet,  there  is 
no  doubt  about  the  things 
being  there. 

Well,  we  will  leave  off 
here  to-day. 

Some  are  short,  and 
some  are  long. 

Excuse  me,  what  may  be 
the  name  of  this  place  ? 

There  is  no  way  of  say- 
ing it. 

It  would  seem  that  diffi- 
culties have  arisen,  and 
so 

How  many  years'  study 
do  you  think  would  enable 
one  to  talk  ? 


29.  More  lit.  **  As  for  the  abutment-place  opposite  to  this,  where 
is  it  ?  " — 32.  Aru  ni  wa  arimasu,  *•  as  for  their  existing,  they  exist," 
is  an  emphatic  construction ;  see  p.  85.  Any  verb  may  be  so  used 
for  emphasis'  sake.— 33.  Oku  is  auxiliary;  conf.  p.  188. — ^34.  Conf.  p. 
igi  for  this  peculiar  construction  with  the  conditional. — 35.  Instead 
of  moshi,  one  may  say  go  men  nasai,  "  deign  to  pardon  me,'*  of 
chotto  ukagaimasn,  ^*I  just  enquire." — 36.  More  lit.  "There  is  no 
way  of  calling  it  even  what  ?  " — ^37.  Our  phrase  **  it  would  seem  that," 
or  the  adverb  "apparently,"  is  generally  thus  rendered  by  the 
gerundtal  construction  to  miete,  the  sentence  being  reverse'd,  and 
another  clause  being  necessary  to  clinch  it. — 38.  Lit.  "  If  I  did 
about  how  many  years'  study,  will  it  probably  become  to  the  even- 
tuating of  talking  ? " 


ADDITIONAL   USEFUL  PHRASES. 


315 


/ 


39.  Natsu  to  chigatfe,  fuyu 
wa  ryukobyo  ga  nakute,  yoro 
shin  gozaimasu, 

40.  0    kaeri     nasaimashi  / 
Sazo  soto  wa  o  samu  gozai 
mashitaro, 

^i' ^gfkutabireta,  Omoi- 
gake-nahu  kyo  wa  aruita 
kara,   gakkari  shita, 

(Familiar.) 

42.  Oi!  nesan  !  Biiru  ip-pon 
motte  kite  o  kure,  Tsuide  ni 
kanjo  no  kaki-tsuke  wo, 

43.  Omote-muki  de  nakUj 
nai-nai  de  kiite  kudasai. 


44.  Sakki  made  wa  de-kake- 
ru  tsumori  datta  ga^—yoki 
no  sei  ka,  kibun  ga  waruku 
natta  kara,  deru  no  wa  yoshi- 
masho,  Kuruma-ya  ivo  koto- 
watte  kudasai. 


45.     S^msU  kore    wa  do  iu 
ifj^de  gozaimasho  ? 


46.  Sensei    ni  choito   o   ide 
nasaru  yd  7ii  so  itte  koi, 

47.  So    iivarete    wa,    domo 
damatte  iraremasen. 


We  are  better  off  in 
winter  than  in  summer; 
for  we.  have  no  epidemic 
diseases  in  winter. 

Welcome  back  I  You 
must  indeed  have  found  it 
cold  out-of-doors. 

Oh  !  I  am  tired.  I  walk- 
ed to-day  much  further 
than  I  had  meant  to  do,  and 
I  am  quite  played  out. 

I  say,  waitress!  Bring 
a  bottle  of  beer,  please.  And 
let  us  have  the  bill  at  the 
same  time. 

Don't  ask  officially,  ask 
privately  please. 

Until  just  now  I  had  in- 
tended to  go  out.  But, 
whether  it  is  from  the  effect 
of  the  weather  or  from 
something  else,  I  feel  quite 
unwell  now,  and  so  shall 
give  up  the  idea  of  going  out. 
Please  tell  the  jinriklsha- 
man  that  he  is  not  wanted. 

Teacher!  what  may  be 
the  meaning  of  this  } 


my 


Just    go    and      ask 
teacher  to  come  here. 

It. is  impossible  to  hold 
one's  tongue  on  being 
spoken  to  in  that  way. 


40.  A  phrase  used  by  any  of  a  household  to  their  master,  or  by 
hotel  people  to  a  guest.-4i.  Gakkari  is  a  sort  of  onomatope  for 
exhaustion. -42.  At  the  end  supply  motte  kite  o  kure.^^6.  See  p. 
269.-44.  Deru  no  wa  might  be  replaced  by  4eru  no  wo. 


3i6 


ADDITIONAL   USEFUL   PHRASES. 


48.  Soke  no  dote  ye  aga- 
ru  tOy  junsa  ni  togamerare- 
masu, 

49.  Sono  koto  ga  shireru  to, 
oki  ni  futsugo  de  gozaimasu, 

50.  Taiso  ase  ni  natta  kara, 
kimono  wo  sukkari  ki-kae- 
masho, 

51.  Taiso  kumotte  mairima 
shlta,^   l^kS'bh  fi(Psuru  toko 
wo  mitnasu  to,  kotnhan  atari 
wayuki  gafuru  ka  mo  shire 
masen. 


52.     Tsugi  no  shuku 
nan  ri  gozaimasu? 


made 


53.  Tsumaranai  koto  wo 
ii-kakerarete,  oki  ni  koma- 
rimashzta. 

54.  Watakushi  wa  achira 
no  ho  ye  ichi-do  mo  itta  koto 
ga  nai  kara,  annai  wo  hitori 

•  yatotte  kudasai, 

55.  Yuki  wa  kirei  desu  ga, 
— ato  no  michi  ni  komari- 
masu. 


The  police  will  find  fault 
with  you,  if  you  walk  on 
that  embankment. 

It  will  never  do  for  that 
to  get  known. 

I  have  got  into  such  a 
perspiration,  that  I  think  I 
will  change  all  my  clothes. 

The  sky  has  all  clouded 
over.  1  feel  thoroughly 
chilled,  which  makes  me 
think  that  perhaps  it  may 
snow  to-night. 

How  many  miles  is  it  to 
the  next,  town  ? 

I  felt  much  annoyed  at 
being  addressed  in  that 
manner. 

As  I  have  never  been 
m  that  direction  before, 
please  engage  a  guide  for 
me. 

Snow  is  pretty  to  look 
at,  but  it  puts  the  roads  in 
a  frightful  state  after^yards. 


51.  Toko  is  for  tokorOf  "place,"  hence  "fact."  Mimasu  to,  "when 
I  see,"  "  when  I  consider  (the  fact  that  I  am  doing,  i.e.  feeling,  an 
under-chill)."  Furu  ka  mo  shiremasen,  lit.  "  one  cannot  know 
whether  it  will  snow." — 54.  Itta  koto,  conf.  p.  173 — 55.  Ato  no  michi, 
more  lit.  "  the  after -roads." 


f448. 


EASY 


QUESTIONS  AND  ANSWERS. 


1.  Mada  ma  ni  aimasho 
ka  ? — Mo  ma  ni  aimasen. 

2.  Mo  ma  ni  aima'sumai 
ka  ? — Mada  ma  ni  aimasu, 

3.  Omoshiro  gozaimashita 
ka  ? — le  ;  amari  omoshiroku 
wa  go  z  aimasen, 

4.  Go  byoki  iva  ikaga  de 
gozaimasu  ka  ? — Arigato  go- 
zaimasu.  Oki  ni  kokoro-yoku 
narimashita, 

5.  Do  o  kangae  nasaru 
ka  ? — Kangae  ga  tsiikimasen, 

6.  Watakushi-domo  ni  mo 
miraremasko  ka  ? — 'Mirare- 
nai  koto  wa  arumai, 

7.  Anata  wa,  o  kodomo- 
shu  ga  gozaimasu  ka? — le ; 
watakushi  wa  dokishin  de 
gozaimasu. 


Shall  I  still  be  in  time  ? 
— No,  you  won't. 

Don't  you  think  I  shall 
still  be  in  time  ? — Yes,  you 
will. 

Was  it  amusing?— No, 
not  very. 


How  do  you  feel  to-day  ? 
— Much  better,  thank  you. 

What  do  you  think  about 
it? — I  can't  arrive  at  any 
opinion. 

Can  I  too  be  allowed  to 
see  it,  do  you  think  ? — I 
don't  think  there  is  any  rea- 
son why  you  should  not. 

Have  you  any  children  ? 
— No,  I  am  a  bachelor. 


3.  For  amarif  see  p.  144.  For  the  wa  after  omoshiroku^  conf.  p. 
86.  Such  elliptical  sentences  as  "  No,  not  very  "  in  the  English  version 
of  this  example  and  the  answer  in  the  next  example,  aire  not  admis- 
sible in  Japanese. — 5.  The  answer  is  lit.  *'  consideratjpj^,  sticks  not. — 
6.  Conf.  bottom  of  p.  196  and  p.  264,  f  432. — 7.  Mofe/lit.  *•  As  for 
you,  are  there  honourable  children  ?  "  ' ':}-. 


3i8 


EASY   QUESTIONS   AND   ANSWERS. 


8.  Ryoko-menjo  wo  o  mochi 
de  gozaimasu  ka  ? — He  !  sho- 
ji  itashite  orimasu, 

9.  Emhi-fuku  de  irasshai- 
masu  ka  ? — Sore  de  naku 
mOf  furokku-koto  de  yoroshii, 

10.  0  meshi-mono  wo  o 
ki'kae  nasaimasu  ka  ? — lya  I 
Kono  mama  de,  uwagi  dake 
yoi  ho  to  kaeyo, 

11.  Senjitsu  wa,  kekko  na 
o  shina  wo  arigatO  zonji- 
masu. 

Do  itashimashife  !  Ma  koto 
ni  somatsu  na  mono  de, 
shitsurei  de  gozaimashita. 


Have  you  got  a  passport  ? 
— Yes,  I  have. 

Are  you  going  in  even- 
ing clothes,  Sir  ? — No,  my 
frock  -  coat  will  do  well 
enough. 

Are  you  going  to  change 
your  clothes,  Sir  ? — No,  I 
shall  remain  as  I  am,  ex- 
cept that  I  will  put  on  a 
better  coat. 

Many  thanks  for  the 
beautiful  present  you  made 
me  the  other  day. 

Oh !  pray  don't  mention 
it.  It  was  really  such 
rubbish,  that  it  was  quite 
rude  of  me  to  offer  it  to  you. 


8.  Ryoko  may  be  omitted.  The  answer  to  this  question  is  rather 
high-flown.  In  simpler  parlance  it  would  be  He  !  motte  orimasu. — 
9.  In  Chinese,  ^m  =  " swallow;  "  6/  =  "tail;  "  fuku  —  '^  clothes." Sor« 
de  naku  moj  "even  without  that."  Furokku-koto  is  the  nearest 
approach  to  "frock-coat,"  of  which  Japanese  organs  are  capable. — 10. 
Meshi-mono  is  a  very  polite  term  for  clothes,  used  chiefly  by  servants 
in  addressing  their  masters.  Yoi  A5="  the  good  one,"  or  "  a  better 
one,"  "my  best  one."  Observe  the  simple  non-honorific  kaey6y  used 
by  the  master  in  addressing  his  servant.  Between  friends  it  would  be 
kaemashd]  Sind  the  servant  in  the  question  uses  the  still  more  honori- 
fic periphrasis  o  kikae  nasaimasu. — 11.  (Answer.)  It  is  the  rule  to 
use  some  such  depreciatory  phrase  as  this  in  speaking  of  a  present 
made  by  oneself  to  another.  The  self-depreciation  does  not  sound  at 
all  excessive  to  Japanese  ears.  For  the  de  in  somatsu  na  mono  de,  see 
p.  134,  ^  200,  et  seq.  This  method  of  correlating  sentences  must  be 
carefully  studied. — 12.  When  there  is  no  bell,  as  in  all  old  fashioned 
Japanese  houses,  the  visitor  cries  out  O  tano^  moshimasu  as  in  No.  14. 
The  servant  here  says  simply  taku^  rather  than  o  taku,  in  order  to 
avoid  applying  honor ifics  to  any  one  connected  with  the  family  he 
himself  belongs  to,  even  though  it  be  the  lady  of  the  house  herself. 


EASY   QUESTIONS   AND   ANSWERS. 


319 


12.  (Visitor  rings   the  bell, 
and  servant  appears.) 

Irasshaimashi ! 

Okusama  wa,    0   uchi  de 
gozaimasu  ka  ? 

He  I  taku  de  gozaimasu,. 

13.  Rusu-chu  ni  donata  mo 
0  ide  wa  nakatta  ka  ? 


He  /  senkoku  kono  tefuda 
no  kata  ga  irasshaimashite, 
o  kaeri  ni  nattaray  "  Yoro- 
shiku  "  to  mosaremashUa. 


14.     O  tano{mi)  moshimasu  ! 

Irasshaimashi  I 

Go  shujin  wa,  0   taku  de 
gozaimasu  ka  p 

Tadaima    rusu   de  gozai- 
masu. 

So  desU  ka  ?    Sore  de  wa, 
0  kaeri    ni     narimashitara, 
ga     mairimashitey 


**  Smith 

*  Yoroshiku  '   moshimashita  " 

to  itte  kudasai. 


Welcome ! 

Is  Mrs.  ***  at  home  ? 

Yes,  Sir. 

Did  any  one  call  while  I 
was  out  ? 

Yes,  Sir,  a  gentleman 
called  and  left  this  card; 
and  he  desired  his  com- 
pliments to  you  when  you 
came  home. 

/    This    last    clause   is    a    polite\ 
\phrase  in  constant  use.  ) 

I  beg  to  ask ! 

GThis  is  the  formula  used  when\ 
here  is  no  house-bell.  ) 

Welcome ! 

Is  your  master  at  home  ? 

No,  Sir,  he  has  gone  out. 

Indeed  ?  Then  please 
tell  him  when  he  comes 
home  that  Mr.  Smith  called 
and  desired  his  compn- 
ments  to  him. 


13.  More  lit.  **  Did  no  one  call  ?  "  the  Japanese  usually  preferring 
to  turn  such  questions  negatively.  The  potential  mosaremashUa  at 
the  end  is  more  polite  than  plain  mosu  would  be ;  see  p.  244,  ir  403. — • 
14.  The  ml  of  tanomi  is  often  dropped  for  brevity's  sake.  Persons 
who  are  not  scrupulous  about  politeness  cry  out  simply  *'  TanomuJ'* 
These  little  dialogues  instance  the  use  of  so  many  honorific  idioms, 
that  it  would  be  well  to  read  through  the  Chapter  on  Honorifics,  p. 
238  et  seq.t  in  connection  with  them. 


^'uX^- 


c  P.E    I  I  - 


If  449- 


A  FEW 

PROVERBS. 


Ante  futte, 

Main    Imr^Mj^lJflilleM* 


ji     katamaru 
.  earfh    hardlenB, 

2.  Awase-mono     wa, 

JoiMed'ihing    affor^ 

hanare-mono. 
aepmruhie^ihingiis). 

3.  Bo  hedo    negat- 

Biuageou  mmonni  hmvingm 

te,  hart        hodo 

reqneMied,    ueedle      amanni 

kanau. 

€orre»pondB, 

4.  Doroho     ni  oi- 

Vhief        iOi      pnTBue- 

sen, 

^,     Go  ni  itte 

nUiri€i      4Hio  hmfiMg' 

wUf     go       ni  shita- 

entered,         dUiriei    io     con^ 

gae  ! 

form  I 

6.     Haki-dame    ni    tsuruA 

Sweep^mouMd  on,  Biork, 


After  rain  the  ground  gets 
hard. 

("  Good  comes  out  of  evil.") 

That  which  has  been  artifi- 
cially joined  together  is  easi- 
ly separated. 

Said  of  a  husband  and  wife  who\ 


C 


^disagree. 


To  ask  for  a  bludgeon's 
worth,  and  to  get  a  needle's 
worth. 


Spending    money   on   the 
pursuit   of  a   thief. 

/    "Throwing    good    money     afterN 
Vbad."  / 


When  you  enter  a  district, 
conform  to  its  customs. 

/    "  When  you  are  in  Rome,  do  as\ 
VRome  does."  / 


A  Stork  on  a  dust-heap. 

{"  A  jewel  in  a  dunghill.") 


2.  Supply  da  siitt  hanare-mono.— 4^  Supply  wo  tsuiyasu  at  iht  end. 


PROVERBS. 


321 


7.     Hari      hodo  no  koto 

JITeeMe  €ummu»i   '«   ihiug 

WO  ho  hodo     ni 

(accus,)   hindgemn    mmmmui     tm 

iu. 


8.  Hito    no  uwasa  mo, 

shichi  -jU'go  -nic  h  i . 
««0«itfy-4«e-4l«yc  {is), 

9.  Hito         wo        noroe- 

JFersmu      (accus.)      tf/^Me- 
ba,      ana  futaisu, 
eurMBMi  ttoi€M       tw0  (gveutuate). 

10.  Hiza     to      mo,   dan- 

Mneea    wbUU    enernf   e«M- 

Mniimii0M  {do). 

11.  Hotoke    no   kao    mo, 

Bnddha      *a    face    eveat* 

san-do. 

12.  /     no  uchi  no  kawa- 

ZU. 

13.  Ichi  ifio         kiitCf 
OM€{accus,)  hmriHg-heardf 

ju      WO      shiru. 

ien  {accus.)  im-hnotv, 

14.  Inu  ni        natte      mo, 

lB0g   !•      he€9mHmg  eveu^ 

6'doko     no  inu  ni   nare  ! 
Mtwge^laee^M   dog  to  hecoame! 


To  talk  of  a  thing  as  small 
as  a  needle  as  if  it  were  as 
big  as  a  bludgeon. 

/    "  To  make  mountains  out  of  moleA 
VJiilla."  / 

Gossip  only  lasts  seventy- 
five  days. 

(The  scandal  will   blow  over  like\ 
"  a  nine  days '  wonder."  ) 

Curse  a  man,  and  there 
will  be  two  graves. 

(A  curse  strikes  not  only  him  against 
whom  it  is  pronounced,  hvX  also  him 
who  pronounces  it.) 

Consult  any  one,  even  if  it 
be  only  your  own  knees. 

("In  the  multitude  of  counsellorsN 
there  is  wisdom."  / 

Even  a  Buddha's  face  can 
only  be  ticlcled  thrice. 

("  The  crushed  worm  will  turn.") 

Like  a  frog  in  a  well* 

(Knowing  nothing  of  the  world.) 

To  know  all  by  hearing  a 
part. 

(Said  of  mental  acuteness.) 

,  If  you  become  a  dog,  at 
least  be  the  dog  of  a  great 
house. 

("  Do  nothing  by  halves.") 


8.  Supply  da, — 9.  Supply  ga  dekiru, — 10.  Supply  shiro  ! — 11. 
Supply  some  such  woids  as  shika^  naderarenai*,  *' cannot- stroke* 
but^  (three-times.)" — 12*  The  complete  saying  is  /  fto  uchi  no  kawazu 
daikai^  wo^  shirazu^  ('*knows-not3  the  ocean^");  but  the  last  three 
words  are  generally  omitted  for  brevity's  sake. 


322 


PROVERBS. 


15.     Iri-mame   ni     hana. 


16.     yigoku '  no      sata 

Bell         *a     de€Uimn§ 

mo,    ham      shidai, 

mltot  moHe9  aeeordiug(are), 

ij.     Kai'inu         ni        te 

MeepiHgrdog     fty,       hmatd 

WO         kamareru, 
(accus,)  to'gei'biUeH* 

18.     Kawai      ko     ni      wa 

nettr        child  to 

tahi       wo  sase  I 

Jcumey  (accus.)    €«n§e*tm*d9! 

ig.     Kowashi,      mitashi. 

{I5)afraids  wtmifiO'tee* 

20.  Kyodai       t^a        ta- 

Breihreu    aa'foTf  others 

nin     no     hajimari, 
people  of    hegiuMiMg  (are), 

21.  Mekura       sen-nin, 

Blind        thoMtaud^er* 

me-aki  sen- 

MOMM,       etfe^open    -    thonaand* 

nin. 
perBOMt  (are), 

22.  Mitsu-go  no  tamashii 

Three^Mld '«         #«w# 

hyaku     made, 
humdred      till  (changes  not). 


Blossoms  on  parched  peas. 

/    "Grapes  on  thorns  and   figs   on\ 
\thistlc8."  / 

Even      hell's     judgments 
may  be  swayed  by  moniey. 

/    "  Money  is  the  k^  that  opens  all\ 
\doors."  / 

To  get  one's  hand  bitten 
by  one's  own  dog. 

("  Nursing  a  viper  in  one's  bosom.*') 


.   A  pet  child  should  be  made 
to  travel. 

("  spare   the   rod,    and   spoil   the\ 
child."  ) 

Afraid,  and  yet  itching  to 
peep. 

Brotherhood    is   the    first 
step   towards  estrangement. 

/    The  exact  reverse  of  our  "  Blood' 
Vis  thicker  than  lArater." 


) 


There  are  a  thousand  blind, 
and  a  thousand  who  can  see. 

(The   world's    opinion    is    so  evenly 

balanced,    that    there'  is    little  use    in 

striving      after      unusual      and  often 
unappreciated  excellence.) 


A  three  -  year  -  old  child's 
soul  will  remain  the  same  till 
he  is  a  hundred. 

("  The  boy  is  father  to  the  man.") 


16.  Supply  rfa.-— 18.  Sase!=^saseroJ — 19.  A  good  example  of  the 
survival  of  the  conclusive  form  of  adjectives,  each  word  being  here 
considered  as  a  conjplet€  sentence;  see  p.  119. — 20.  Supply  da, — 
21.  Supply  arw. — 22.  Supply  *awara»ai. 


PROVERBS. 


323 


23.  Nama-byoho        wa^ 

C'rutie'iaeiicB        a§»forf 

6'kizu       710    moto, 
g^reai-tvouHti  '#     0r4g4H(are). 

24.  Neko  ni   koban. 

Vai      iOf  goitheo4m, 

25.  Nikkd      wo      minai 
J%'ikkd      (acciis.)    geettmi 

uchi       wa,         **kekkd'' 
teiihiM  4t$'for,    **  magMiHeeHi  " 

to     iu-na ! 

thai   Bay^oL 


26.      0 

fit         0 

WO 

Vnii 

l#,    iaii 

{accus,) 

tsukeru. 

to-amx. 

27 .     Oda  wara    hyogi . 

Odawara  *  cmufereuee. 


28.     Omoi'tatta  ga    kichi- 

WLeaotved    (nom,)  iuekff 


nichi, 

day(is). 


Crude  tactics  cause  grave 
wounds. 

(    "A.  little  learning  is  a  dangerousX 
Vthing."  ; 

Gold  coins  to  a  cat. 

('*  Casting  pearls  before  swine.") 


Do    not     use 
**  magnificent  '* 
have  seen  Nikko. 


the     word 
until     you 


To  add  tail  to  tail. 

(To  exaggerate  and  amplify.) 

Like  the  Odawara  confer- 
ence. 

(Endless    talk,    resulting    in    noA 
thing.  ) 

The  best  day  to  execute  a 
resolve  is  the  day  on  which 
you  form  it 

("  Procrastination  is  the  thief  of  \ 
time."  ) 


23.  Supply  da.— 2^.  Koban  is  a  specific  name,  not  a  general  one;  but 
the  oval  gold  coin  which  it  denotes  is  no  longer  current. — 25.  Nikko 
is  famed  both  for  its  mountain  scenery,  and  for  the  splendour  of  its 
tombs  and  temples  dedicated  to  the  first  and  third  Shoguns  o{  the 
Tokugawa  dynasty. — 27.  In  the  year  1590,  when  the  castle  of  Oda- 
wara, belonging  to  the  Hojo  family,  was  besieged  by  the  Taik5  Hide- 
yoshi,  the  generals  commanding  the  besieged  force  could  not  come 
to  £^n  agreement  as  to  whether  it  were  best  to  await  the  onslaught'  of 
the  enemy,  or  to  sally  forth  themselves  and  offer  battle.  While  they 
were  still  discussing  this  question,  Hideyo§hi  made  s^  sudden  on- 
slaught, and  captured  the  castle  by  a  coup  de  main, — 28.     Supply  da. 


324 


PROVERBS. 


29.  Oni      no     rusu      ni 
sentaku, 

wgaahiHg  (to  do). 

30.  **  Kongo"     yomi    no 

**0MM€aeeiB**  reading  '« 

^^  Kongo''     shirazu, 

**^MmieeiM"  JlMM*rr-fi«#. 

31.  San-nin  yore- 

rkree^erBmms     if^cmme^ 

ha,      Monju  no    chie. 

iogeiher,  JfMoa^n  *§   elevemeBB 

32.  Shaka.   ni    sekkyo. 

Bn4dha  <•,     iermon, 

53.    Shinda    ko    no     toshi 

Bied     €hiid    'a      y«ar« 

WO     kazoeru. 
(accus.)  io^coumt* 


34- 
ko. 


Sumeba, 


miya- 

eapiiat' 


eitw  (it  is). 


DcTing  the  washing  when 
the  demon  is  absent. 

/    "When  the  cat's  away,  the  mice\ 
Vwill  play."  / 

To  have  read  the  **  Ana- 
lects," and  not  to  know  them. 

/    "If  ye  know  these  things,  happy\ 
\are  ye  if  ye  do  them."  / 

When  three  people  consult 
together,  there  results  wis- 
dom worthy  of  Monju. 

("  Two  heads  are  better  than  one.") 


Preaching  to  Buddha. 

'    "  Teaching .  your  grandmother  to\ 
,suck  eggs."  J 

Up    a    dead 


To    reckon 
child's  age. 

("  Crying  over  spilt  milk.") 

If  you  live  in  a  place,  it  be- 
comes the  capital  so  far  as 
you  are  concerned. 

("  There  is  no  place  like  home.") 


29.  Supply  wo  sum.  Sentaiu  is  believed  to  be  a  corruption  of 
tentakUj  "  changing  house."  If  so,  the  original  meaning  of  the 
proverb  was  "  To  change  house  when  the  Devil  is  not  by  to  see." — 
30.  The  Confucian  •*  Analects  "  are  one  of  the  most  venerated  of 
the  Chinese  Classics,  and  a  committal  of  them  to  memory  was 
formerly  an  essential  part  of  every  Japanese  gentleman's  education. 
The  proverb  applies  to  the  failure  to  put  principles  into  practice, 
not,  as  might  be  supposed,  to  the  non- comprehension  of  texts.  The 
word  shirazu  is  a  remnant  of  the  Book  Language,  the  •*  conclusive 
negative  present,"  corresponding  to  the  Colloquial  shiran  or  shiranai. 
Do  not  confound  it  with  the  negative  gerund. — 31.  Monju  (Sanskrit 
Manjusri)  is  the  personification  of  wisdom  in  the  Buddhist  my- 
thology.— 32.  Supply  wo  suru. — 34.  Supply  da.  This  proverb  means 
that  a  man  can  accustom  himself  to  anything. 


PROVERBS. 


325 


y  ^5.     Todaiy      moto    kura- 

Candieaiiek,    bottom     {is) 

shi, 
dark. 

36.  Tokoro       kawareha, 

JFlaee  if^ehmMget^ 

shina     kawaru, 

hiud       ehamgea, 

37.  IJma     no     mimi     ni 

Borge       '«  ear       4h, 

nembutsu, 

invohtHg^Buddha* 

38     Uwasa    wo      sureba, 

OoBMijp  [accus.)4f''^iie'doet, 
kage      ga      sasu, 

Bhadow  (nom.)  §tr4ket. 


39.     Wataru       sekai 

C'roBM  wBorid 

oni         wa       nai, 
detmoH  affoTt   Utaot, 


nt 


40.     Wazawai    wa    shimo 

Caiamity   affor,   heiow 

karn, 

from  (arise). 


Just  below  the  candle- 
stick is  the  darkest  place  of 
all. 

("  One   has   to   go  abroad  to  get\ 
news  of  home."  / 


So  many  places,  so  many 
manners. 


Pouring    prayers 
horse's  ears. 

(Taking  useless  trouble.) 


into    a 


If  you  talk  of  a  man,  his 
shadow  will  fall  on  you. 

(, 


Talk  of  the  Devil,  and  he'll  ap-\ 
pear."  / 


Cross  the  whole  world,  and 
you  will  find  no  demons. 

(There   is   kindness    to  be  foundN 
everywhere.  / 

Calamities      come     from 
below. 

(It  is  not  enough  to  flatter  the  great. 
You  must  ingratiate  yourself  with  the 
underlings;  for  the  power  to  hurt  you 
rests -chiefly  with  them.) 


35.  Kurashi,  conclusive  form  of  kurai,  *♦  dark  ;  "  conf.  p.  iiS-— 9. 
-37.  Supply  wo  i«.— 40.  Supply  okoru. 


f  450.  FRAGMENTS 

OF 

CONVERSATION. 

r.     The  Post. — Kesaj  yiihin  wa  kimasen  ka  ? 
He  /     mairimasen, 

Hate-na  !      Kino  7io  asa  Hama  ye  dashita  henji  ga  mo 
kurji  wake  da  ga 

2.*   An  Exhibition. — Tonen  mo  Ueno  ni  hakurankwai 
ga  arimasho  ka  ? 

Ikaga  desho  ka  P  Tonto  uwasa  wo  kikimasen. 

3.  A    Request. — Dekiru   fiara,   kyo-ju    ni   kore   wo 
utsushite  kudasai. 

Domo  !  so  wa  i kimasen. 

4.  Engaging  a  Teacher. — Dozo  yoi  shisho  wo  saga- 
shite  kudasai. 

Mi -atari' shidai,  tsurete  mairimasho. 

5.  What   Salary  ? — Hito-tsuki   no  sharei  wa,  dono 
kurai  yattara  yokaro  ? 

Md  !  jii-shi'go  en  de  jubun  de  gozaimasho. 

I.  For  *'  yes,"  where  *'  no  "  would  seem  more  natural,  see  {>.  229, 

IT  376.  Hama  is  a  familiar  abbreviation  for  Yokohama.    The  last  line 

.  of  the  Japanese  text  is  extremely  concise : — Hama  ye  dashita  henji 

may  be  best  construed  by  expanding  it  to  Hama  ye  dashita  tegami  no 


FREE 

ENGLISH 
TRANSLATION. 

1.  The  Post. — Have  no  letters  come  this  morning? 
No,  none  have  come. 

I  can't  make  it  out !     Why,  there  ought  to  be  an  answer 
to  the  letter  I  sent  to  Yokohama  yesterday  morning. 

2.  An  Exhibition. — Is  there  to  be  an  exhibition  at 
Ueno  this  year  also  ? 

I  don't  know.     I  have  not  heard  the  slightest  rumour 
on  the  subject. 

3.  A  Request. — If  you   can   manage  it,   do  please 
copy  this  by  to-night. 

Oh  !  really,  that  is  quite  impossible. 

4.  Engaging  a  Teacher. — Please  look  out  for  a  good 
teacher  for  me. 

As  soon  as  I  find  one,  I  will  bring  him  to  you. 

5.  Salary. — How  much  salar}'  should  I  give  a  month 
(e.g.y  to  a  teacher)  ?  . 

Well,  I   should  say  that  $14  or  $15  would  be  ample. 

kenji.  The  sentence  is  incomplete;  but  such  incomplete  sentences 
ending  in  ga  are  of  frequent  occurrence,  the  speaker  not  knowing  ex- 
actly what  to  add;  conf.  p.  181. — 2.  Ikaga  desho  ka  is  more  or  less 
equivalent  to  "  I  don't  know ;"  see  p.  229,  ^  375. 


328  FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION. 

6.  Meal  Hov^s, —:'Kochira  de  wa,  gozen  no  jikoku 
wa,  nan-ji  to  nan-ji  desu  ka? 

He  !  0  hiru  wa,  ju-ni-ji  han  de,  0.  yashoku  ga  shichi- 
ji  han  de  gozaimasu. 

Sore  de  wa,  asa-han  wa  ? 

He!  asa  wa,  kimari  ga  gozaimasen.  Anata.'-uo^o 
tsicgo  shidai. 


7.  An  Enquiry. — Moshi !  tike-tsuke  wa,  kochira 
desu  ka  ? 

Hei  /  koko  wo  massugu  ni  o  ide  ni  naru  to,  sugu  soko 
desu. 

5.  Talking  to  a  Child. — Sd,  botchan  !  koko  ye  0  kake 
nasai.     0  otonashii  koto  /  O  ikiitsu  desu  ka  ? 

Yatsu. 

Taiso  okii  koto  !     Gakko  ye  0  kayoi  desu  ka  ? 
He  !  mainichi  ikimasu  ga, — kyo  wa,  Doyobi  desu  kara^ 
o  hiru'giri  deshtta.  ^ 

9.  Talking  to  a  Father. — Kono  0  ko  wa,  aetata  no 
go  shisoku  de  gozaimasu  ka  ? 

He  !  watakushi  no  soryo  de  gozaimasu. 

Sore  wa,  taiso  o  rippa  nd  go  shisoku  wo  o  mochi  na- 
saimashtte,  sazo  0  tanoshimi  de  gozaimasho, 

le  I  domo,  wampaku  de  komarimasu. 

6.  yn-ni-ji  han  de :  notice  how  de^  used  predicatively,  correlates 
this  clause  with  the  next;  conf.  p.  134,  H  200,  and  the  9th  and 
loth  examples  on  p.  135.  After  asa-kan  wa^  supply  itsu  de  gozaima^  ? 
After  shidai,  supply  de  gozaimasu. — 7.  For  koko  wo^  see  p.  226. — 


FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION.  329 

6.  Meal  Hours. — What  are  the  hours  for  meals 
here  ? 

Luncheon  is  ^t  half- past  twelve,  and  dinner  at  half- 
past  seven. 

Then  what  about  breakfast  ? 

Breakfast  ?  There  is  no  fixed  time  for, it,  Sir.  You  can 
have  it  whenever  convenient  to  yourself. 

7.  An  Enquiry, — Please,  is  this  the  enquiry  ofBce  ? 
No ;  but  you  will  come  to  it  in  a  minute,  if  you  go 

straight  on, 

8.  Talking  to  a  Child.— Here,  my  little  man !  sit 
down  here.  What  a  good  boy  you  arie !  How  old  are 
you? 

Eight. 

How  big  you  are  for  your  age  I     Do  you  go  to  school  ? 
Yes,  I  go  there  every  day.     But  to-day  we  only  had 
lessons  till  noon,  because  it  is  Saturday. 

9.  Talking  to  a  Father. — Is  this  little  boy  your 
son  ? 

Yes,  he  is  my  eldest. 

Indeed,  you  have  a  fine  fellow  for  an  eldest  son. 
What  a  source  of  happiness  he  must  be  to  you ! 

Oh!  no  indeed.  He  is  so  naughty,  I  don't  know 
what  to  do. 

8.  For  boichattf  see  p.  234.     Koto  in  Taisd  okii  koto!  is  used  excla- 
matorily ;  see  p.  37.    The  o  of  0  hiru-giri  is  expletive;    see  p.242. — 

9.  Such  complimentary  and  self-depreciatory  speeches  are  customary, 
qaite  irrespective  of  facts,  and  must  not  be  understood  too  literally.* 


330  FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION. 

10.    The  Telegraph. — Kokoe-ra  way  hempi  da  kara, 
denshin  ga  nakute,fujiyrl  desu,  ne  ! 

Sayo  de  gozaimasuru.     Oi-oi  dekimasu  de  gozaimasho. 

u.     Speaking   Japanese    Well. — Anata    wa^  yoku 
Nihon-go  ga  o  wakari  ni  narimasU,       -r *  ^  ,.  .   - 

C  Tonda    koto  osshaimasui     Do  shite  I  Naka-naka  ses^ 
de  gozaimasu,  "^ 

lya  I  {do  itaskimashite  //     Hontd  ni  rippa  de.  gozai- 
masu, 

12.     No  Thoroughfare. — Ano  hashi  wa  fushin-chu 
de,  or ai 'dome  daso  da. 

Dori  de,  koko  ni  kari -hashi  ga  kakatte  imasu. 


13.    Compliments  on  meeting  a  Friend. — Konaida 
wa  tochU  de  hanahada  shikkei, 

lel  do  itaskimashite !  watakushi  koso.     Shikashi,  are 

kara  dochira  ye  irasshaimashtta  ?,   , 

"/ 

y  14.     A  Message. — Sakki  no  tsukai  wa,  rhada  kaette 

/        Tionai  ka  ?     Nani  wo  shite  iru  ka  ?     Taiso  tema  ga  toreru, 
/  Okata  saki  soma  ga  o  rusu  de,  matte  de^^no  orimasu  n* 

de  gozaimasho. 


II.  Lit.  "  As  for  you,  Japan  language  becomes  well  to  honourable 
understanding." — 12.  De^  see  IT  200.  Daso  is  the  "adjfective  of  pro- 
bability" oida,  "to  be."  DJrt  <f^="  being  reasonable,"  here  *•  that 
is  why." — 13.  These  compliments  are  in  constant  use,  and  do  not 
sound  absurd  in  Japanese,  though  the  rudeness  apologised  for  on 
both  sides  is  generally  quite  imaginary.    After  shikkei  supply  itashi- 


FRAGMENTS   OF   CONVERSATION.  53 1 

lb.  The  Telegraph. — It  is  inconvenient, — isn't  it  ? — 
there  being  no  telegraph  in  this  part  of  the  country,  on 
account  of  its  being  so  out-of-the-way. 

Yes.     But  I  suppose  we  shall  have  it  in  time. 

11.  Speaking  Japanese  Well. — You  speak  Japanese 
beautifully. 

Nonsense!  How  can  you  say  such  a  thing?  My 
Japanese  is  very  poor  indeed. 

Not  a  bit  of  it.  How  can  you  say  so  ?  You  really 
speak  splendidly. 

12.  No  Thoroughfare. — It  seems  that  the  thorough- 
fare is  closed,  because  the  bridge  over  there  is  under- 
going repairs. 

Ah  yes !  That  is  why  they  have  put  up  a  temporary 
bridge  here. 

13.  Compliments  on  Meeting  a  Friend. — I  beg 
your  pardon  for  having  been  so  rude  to  you  in  the 
street  the  other  day. 

Oh  !  no,  not  at  all !  It  was  I  who  was  rude.  Where 
did  you  go  after  we  parted  ? 

14.  A  Message. — Hasn't  the  messenger,  whom  I  sent 
some  time  ago,  come  back  yet  ?  What  is  he  doing  ? 
He  is  a  tremendous  time  about  it. 

Probably  it  is  because  the  gentleman  you  sent  him  to 
is  out,  so  that  the  messenger  is  kept  waiting. 

mashtta.  After  koso  supply  de  gozaimashtta. — 14.  Sakki  is  emphatic 
for  saki ;  conf.  II  25  and  If  30.  Toreru  is  the  intransitive  correspond- 
ing to  the  liansitive  verb  torn,  **to  take;"  conf.  p.  201. 


332  FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION. 

Jh  ' 

15.  Feeling  Unwell. — Ky6  no  sMkwai  ni  wUy  iras- 

y^      shaimasen  deshlta  ka  ? 

fhJ  kyo  way  nan  ^da  ka,  kokoro-mochi  ga  warukute 
ikemasen  kara,  koto/wari  wo  itte  yarimashlta. 

16.  On  Board  Ship. — Kyo  wa,  yoi  nagi.  de  gozai- 
masUf  ne  /. 

So  de  gozaimasH,     Go  doyo  ni  ski-awase  de  gozaimasu* 

Anata  wa,  Kobe  ye  o  ide  de  gozaimasu  ka  ? 

le,    Nagasaki  made  mairimasu, 
'■    Ikaga  de  gozaimasu  ?  Kitsuenjo  de  ip-puku  itashimasho 
ka?  •  ^  . 

Sa  /  0  tomo  itashimasho* 

*.  17.  A  Picnic— /iC^o  wa,  iihiyori  da  kara,  undo  kaid- 
gata  O'jigoku  wo  mite  kimasU  kara,^ani  ka  mi'tsuku- 
rotte^.  hento  wo  san-nin-mae  isoide  koshiraete  kudasai. 

He!  shochi  itashimashita.  Go  shu  wa,  nani-nani  wo 
motasemasho?  '"  ^r^    '      '^>> 

Sake  wa,  biiru  ip-pon  to,  fusuke  ip-pon  ni,  soda-mizu 
ni'hon  de  yoroshii. 

He  I  kashikomarimashita. 

18.  A  Visitor. — Ima  mieta  0  kyaku  wa,  maia  gozen- 
mae  daso  da  kara,  nan  de  mo  ari-awase-mono  de  gohan 
wo  dashlte  kudasai. 

He  !  shochi  itashimashita. 

15.  Warukflte ikemasen,  fairly  lit.  '•  being  so  bad,  that  it  is  no  go;  " 
more  simply  *•  It  is  too  bad."  Similarly  toktite  ikemasen,  *'  it  is 
too  far;"  kutahirete  ikemasen,  "I  am  too  tired,"  etc.;  conf.  p.  144. 
— 16.  For  the  objective  honoti^cs  in  go  doyo  amd  otomo,  seep.  241, 
1  398. — 17.  Ojigoku  (*'  Big  Hell  ")  is  the  name  of  a  valley  near  Mi- 
yanosh  ta  containing  some  boiling  sulphur  springs.     It  is  also  called 


i 
0' 


FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION.  333 

15.  Feeling  Unwell. — Didn't  you  go  to  the  meeting 
to-day  ? 

No.  I  don't  know  what  it  is,  but  I  feel  unwell ;  so  I 
sent  an  excuse. 

16.  On  Board  Ship. — It  is  beautifully  calm  to-day, 
isn't  it  ? 

Yes,  indeed.     It  is  lucky  for  all  of  us. 
Are  you  going  to  K6be  ? 
No.     I  am  going  on  to  Nagasaki. 
What  do  you  say  to  our  going  and  having  a  pipe  in 
the  smoking-room  ? 
All  right,  come  along ! 

17.  A  Picnic — As  it  is  fine  weather  to-day,  we  are 
going  to  Ojigoku  for  the  sake  of  a  little  exercise.  So 
please  make  haste,  and  put  up  (something  or  other  as] 
luncheon  for  three. 

All  right,  Sir.     What  liquors  shall  I  send  ? 
Liquors  ?— A  bottle  of  beer,  a  bottle  of  whisky,  and  two 
bottles  of  soda-water,  will  be  enough. 
All  right.  Sir. 

18.  A  Visitor. — It  would  seem  that  the  visitor  who  has 
just  arrived  has  not  dined  yet.  So  please  give  him  some- 
thing to  eat.     Anything  that  happens  to  be  ready  will  do. 

All  right,  Sir. 

Owakidanif  i.e.,  "the  Valley  of  the  Great  Boiling."  Mite  kimasii: 
conf.  kurUf  p.  187,  IT  295.  Go  shu  is  Chinese  for  the  Japanese  o  sake^ 
and  sounds  more  polite.  Fusuke  is  the  nearest  approach  most 
Japanese  can  make  to  the  pronunciation  of  our  word  "whisky." 
Kashtkomarimashlta^  or  shochi  itashimashlta^  as  immediately  above, 
is  the  usual  term  by  which  an  inferior  expresses  that  he  has  under- 
stood the  orders  of  a  superior. 


334  FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION. 

19.  AsKi^^G  THE  Way. — Moshil  Hakuhutsukwan 
wa,  dono  hen  desH  ka  ? 

Sayo  de  gozaimasu.  Sore  wa^  koko  wo  massugu  ni  iku 
tOy  migi  no  ho  gajtmsa  no  kobansho  de,  hidari  no  ho  ga 
Hakuhutsukwan  desu,  Man  ni  **  Hakuhutsukwan  "  to 
kaita  gaku  ga  agete  arimasu  kara^jiki  shiremasU. 

Kore  wttf  domo  !  arigato  zonjimasu. 


20.  Compliments  on  first  Meeting. — Hajimema- 
shite  (o  me  ni  kakarimasu).  Watakushi  wa  Tanaka 
Tsunemasa  to  moshimasu,  Natiihtin  yoroshlkunegaimasu. 

Sayo  de  gozaimasu  ka  ?    Kanete  sommei  wa  uketama- 

watte  orimashtta  ga Watakushi  wa   Smith  to  mosu 

mono  de,  igo  o  kokoro-yasU 

21.  Taking  leave  of  a  friend. — Taiso  choza  wo 
itashimashita.  \Konnichi  wa\  mo  o  itoma  {ni)  itashima- 
sho, 

Md !  Yoi  de  wa  gozaimasen  ka  ?  Mo  shosho  o  hana- 
shi  nastte  irasshaimashi. 

Arigato  gozaimasu  ga, — konnichi  wa  chito  tori-isogi- 
masii  kara,  izure  mata  sono  uchi  ukagaimasu. 

Sayo  de  gozaimasu  ka  ?  Kore  wa  taiso  shitsurei  ha- 
kari  moshi-agemashita.  Sonnara  mata  0  chikai  uchi  ni 
zehi  0  tachi-yori  wo 

19.  For  active  past  tense  kaita^  "  wrote,'*  where  English  idiom 
requires  the  passive  past  participle  "written,"  see  p.  185,  '%  293. 
Similarly  in  the  case  of  gaku  ga  agete  arimasu^  lit.  "  a  tablet  is 
raising." — 20.  The  complimentary  phrases  in  this  and  the  next  three 
numbers  should  be  carefully  committed  to  memory,  as  they  are  in 
constant  requisition,  however  queer  and  stilted  the  English  transla- 


FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION.  335 

19.  Asking  the  Way. — Please,  Sir!  would  you  tell 
me  the  way  to  the  Museum  ? 

Let  me  see !  Yes !  If  you  go  straight  on,  you .  will  find 
a  police-station  to  your  right,  and  the  building  on  the  left 
is  the  Museum.  You  will  know  it  at  once,  for  there  is 
a  tablet  over  the  gate,  with  the  word  "Museum"  writ- 
ten on  it. 

Oh  !  very  many  thanks,  Sir. 

20.  Compliments  on  First  Meeting. — This  is  the 
first  time  I  have  had  the  honour  to  meet  you,  Sir.  My 
name  is  Tanaka  Tsunemasa.  I  beg  for  your  kind  friend- 
ship. 

Oh  !  indeed  ?  I  have  had  the  honour  to  hear  of  you 
before,  although  (we  have  never  met).  My  name  is 
Smith.  Henceforward  I  hope  you  will  honour  me  with 
your  intimacy. 

21.  Taking  Leave  of  a  Friend. — I  have  paid  you 
an  unconscionably  long  visit,  and  must  now  be  taking 
my  leave. 

Oh !  Why  hurry  so  ?     Do  please  stop  a  little  longer. 

Many  thanks,  but  I  am  rather  pressed  for  time  to-day. 
I  will  call  again  soon. 

Must  you  really  go  ?  Well,  pray  excuse  the  shortcom- 
ings of  my  imperfect  hospitality,  and  remember  that  I 
count  upon  your  visiting  me  again  very  soon. 

tions  may  sound.  After  uketamawatte  orimashita  ga^  must  be 
supplied  some  clause  such  as  we  have  rendered  in  English  by  *' we 
have  never  met."  After  o  kokoro  yasu  supply  negaimasn. — 21.  Yd 
would  be  more  strictly  grammatical  than  yoi  de  wa^  but  the  latter  is 
often  used;  conf.  second  N.  B.  to  p.  121.  At  the  end  supply 
negaimasi. 


336  FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION. 

22.  Thanks  for  Assistance  Received. — Sate  dan- 
dan  kono  tahi  wa  go  shusen  kudasaimashltey  arigato 
gOBaimasu, 

lel  iki'todokimasen  de,  makoto  ni Shikashi  mazu 

o  medeto  gozaimasu, 

X  23.     New    Year    CoNGRATULATioNS.-^ilfajyw    akema- 

shltCy  0  medeto  gozaimasu, 

O  medeto  gozaimasu.  Kynto  wa  iro-iro  o  scwa  sama  ni 
narimashtte,  arigato  zonjimasii,  •  Nao  tonen  mo  ai-kawa- 
razu  negaimaiH, 


Q^ 


(2^  An  Earthquake. — Anata  saki-hodo  jishin  ga 
gozaimashita  no  wo  go  zonji  desu  ka  ? 

le  !  sukoshi  mo  zonjimasen  deshita,  < 

H-e-he  !  Yohodo  hide  gozaimashite,  afio  tokonoma  no 
hana-ike  ga  yurete,  sunde-no-koto  ni  taoreso  ni  nam  hodo 
deshita. 

Sore  wa^  naka-naka  oki  na  jishin  de  gozaimashita^  ne  ! 
Nan-ji  goro  deshita  ? 

Sono  tokiy  tokei  wo  mimashitara,  ichi-ji  nirjip-pun  sugi 
deshita, 

Naruhodo !  ha-ha!  Sore  de  wa,  shiranai  wake  desu* 
Watakushi  wa,  ichi-ji  ni  Tsukiji  wo  demashtte,  kuruma 
de  mairimashlta  kara,  okata  sono  tochU  de  gozaimashi- 
taro. 

22.  Sa^^=»*  well!"  Dan-dan^  ♦*  gradually,"  serves  to  shows  how 
long-continued  your  favours  were.  Dan-dan  is  constantly  thus  used 
in  polite  speeches.  After  makoto  ni^  must  be  supplied  some  such 
clause  as  that  which  we  have  translated  by  "I  am  ashamed  of 
myself."  ♦'  Result "  is  not  actually  in  the  original  thought ;  bat  the 
idea  is  more  or  less  pointed  at. — 23.  Akemashite  refers  to  the  "  open- 


FRAGMENTS   OP   CONVERSATION.  337 

^2.  Thanks  eor  Assistance  Received. — I  am  very 
much  indebted  to  you  for  your  kind  assistance  lately. 

Not  at  all !  I  am  really  ashamed  of  myself  for  having 
done  so  little.     Anyhow,  I  congratulate  you  on  the  result. 

23.  New  Year  Congratulations. — I  beg  to  offer  you 
my  congratulations  on  the  New  Year. 

The  same  to  yqu.  I  trust  that  you  will  continue  to  me 
throughout  the  present  year  those  favours  by  which  I 
have  profited  in  so  many  ways  during  the  year  that  has 
just  closed. 

24.  An  Earthquake. — Did  you  feel  the  earthquake 
a  few  hours  ago  ? 

No,  I  didn't  feel  it  at  all. 

Indeed?  It  was  very  violent.  It  was  such  that  the 
flower- vase  there  in  the  alcove  shook  so  that  it  seemed 
likely  to  fall. 

Then  it  must  indeed  have  been  a  severe  earthquake. 
About  what  o'clock  did  it  take  place  ? 

I  looked  at  my  watch  at  the  time,  and  it  was  twenty 
minutes  past  one. 

Ah,  I  see.  In  that  case  I  was  bound  not  to  feel 
it.  I  left  Tsiikiji  at  one  o'clock,  and  as  I  went  in  a 
jinrikisha,  it  doubtless  took  place  while  I  was  on  the 
road. 

ing  "  of  the  New  Year.  Kyutd  is  lit.  **  old  winter  "  in  Chinese,  hence 
"last  year." — 24.  Sunds  no  koto  mi="  just  about  to."  Shiranai  wake, 
not  <*  a  reason  which  does  not  know,"  but  *'  a  reason  why  I  should 
not  know,"  Ts&kiji  is  the  name  of  the  foreign  *'  concession  "  (quarter) 
in  ToHyd.  For  sono^*'  of  that,"  see  p.  52. 


333  FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION. 

25.  Hiring  a  JiNRiKf sha. — Kyaku, — Oi  I  kuruma-ya  ! 
Ueno  no  Hakubutsukwan  ye  itte^  ne  I — sore  kara  Asak^sa 
no  kdenchi  wo  kembutsu  skite^  kaeri  ni  Ginza  de  kaimono 
shite,  mata  kono  station  made  kaeru  n'  da  gay — ikura  de 
iku  ka  ? 

Ska/u, — He  /  hidoku  0  tema  ga  toremasho  ka  ?   . 

Kyaku. — lya  I  so  tema  wa  ioremaiy^^yiikata  made  ni 
kaeru  tsumori  da  kara, 

Shafu. — He/  Sore  de  wa,  dannal  shichi-ju-go-sen 
negaito  gozaimasu. 

Kyaku. — H'm  /  sukoshi  takaku  wa  nai  ka  ? 

Shafu. — le  /  Yohodo  michi-nori  mo  gozaimasu  kara, 
kesskite  0  takai  koto  wa  mdshi-agemasen. 

Kyaku, — Sonnara,  sore  dake  yaru  kara,  kaeri  ni  Roku- 
meikwan  ye  choito  yotte  kurei, — tazuneru  hito  ga  aru 
kara.     Shikashi,  kore  wa  tema  wa  torenai, 

Sha/u.^He  I  YoroshiH  gozaimasu.  O  meshi  nasai- 
mashi, 

26.  Letters  for  the  Mail. — Moshi !  O  Haru  San  ! 
Dare  ka,  ni  kono  tegami  wo^yubin-kyoku  ye  mot  fete, — 
NihoH'ji  de  kaite  aru  ho  wa,  kaki-tome  ni  sasetemiketori  . 
wo  toranakereba  naran  ga, — yokomoji  no  ltd  wa,  gwai-- 
koku-yukimda  kara,  jis-sen  no  kitte  wo  hatte,  tada  sashi^ 
irC'guchi  ye  irete.kureba  yoroshii.  ^ 

He  !  kashikomarimashHa, 

25.  Ueno  and  Asakusa  are  districts  in  TokyO,  the  Ginza  is  a  street, 
and  the  Rokumeikwan  a  large  public  building.  useA  for  social  pur- 
poses. Notice  the  correlation  of  clauses  in  the  first  sentence  by 
means  of  the  gerund  repeated  several  times.  The  clause  tasuneru 
koto  ga  aru  kara  is  inverted ;  it  should  properly  precede  the  words 
kaeri  ni  immediate*  above.— 26.  Learn  this  example  thoroughly  by 


:«*l 


FRAGMENTS    OF   CONVERSATION.  339 

25.  Hiring  A  JiNRtKisHA. — Far^.  I  saiy,jihriki*man\ 
I  want  to  go  to  the  Museum  at  Ueno,  you  knowj—^from 
there  on  to  see  the  Public  Garden  at  Asakusa,  then 
to  make  some  purchases  in  the  Ginza  on  the  way  back, 
and  to  return  again  here  to  the  station.  How  much  will 
you  go  for  ? 

jfinrikisha-man.     Shall  you  be  long  about  it,  Sir  ? 

Fare.  No,  probably  not ;  for  I  mean  to  be  back  by 
duffk. 

yinrikisha-man.  Well  then,  Sir,  Tmust  ask  seventy- 
five  cents. 

Fare.     H'm.     Isn't  that  rather  dear  ? 

yinrikisha-man.  No,  Sir  I  haven't  named  at  all  a 
high  price,  for  the  distance  is  very  great. 

Fare.  All  right,  then  ;  I  will  give  you  that  much.  So 
just  look  in  at  the  Rokumeikwan  on  the  way  back,  as 
I  have  some  one  to  call  on  there.  But  that  won't 
take  long. 

yinrikisha-man.     All  right,  Sir.     Please  step  in. 

26.  Letters  for  the  Mail. — I  ss^y  0-Haru !  tell 
some  one  to  carry  these  letters  to  the  post-office.  The 
messenger  must  have  the  one  which  is  addressed  in 
Japanese  characters  registered,  and  must  get  a  receipt 
for  it ;  but  in  the  case  of  those  written  in  Roman  letters, 
it  vail  be  enough  if  he  sticks  a  ten  cent  stamp  on  each, 
and  just  drops  them  into  the  post-box,  as  they  are  to 
go  abroad. 

All  right,  Sir. 

heart,  parse  it  and  analyse  it,  and  you  will  have  laid  the  foundations 
of  a  practical  mastery  over  the  integration  of  sentences  treated  of 
at  the  end  of  the  Chapter  on  Syntax,  p.  273.    Shira  is  familiar  for 
'  shiran. 


340  FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION. 

27.  Nearing  Yokohama. — A  no  oki  ni  daibu  shima 
ga  fniemasu  ga, — are  wa,  nan  to  iu  shima  de  gozaimasu  ? 

Are  ga  Izu  no  Shtchi46  de  goxaimasi.  Mae  no  ga 
Oshima  to  iimasu. 

He  /  are  de  mo,  hito  ga  sunde  imasu  ka  shira, 

E  I  Sunde  iru  dokoro  de  wa  arimasen,  Koko  kara 
miru  tOy  chisd  gosaimasu  ga, — Oshima  naxo  hi  wa  man- 
naka  ni  funkwazan  ga  atte,  sono  mawari  ni  mura-kazu 
ga  rok'ka-son  mo  arimasu.  Ato  no  shimajima  ni  mo 
taigaij^—mottomo  muninto  mo  arimasu  keredo, — hUo  ga 
sunde  imasu* 

He  I    Sayo  de  gozaimasu  ka  ? 

28.  A  Christian  Church. — Konoshuku  ni  wa^  Yaso- 
shu  no  shinja  ga  oi  to  iu  koto  desu,  ne. 

He  !  so  de  gozaimasu,  Kono  hen  wa,  moppara  Yaso 
wo  shinko  itashimasu. 

Kwaido  ga  tatte  orimasH  ka  ? 

He  /  Kore  made  wa,  kocho  san  no  bettaku  wo  kari  ni 
kwaido  ni  mochiite  orimashlta  ga, — tezema  ni  tsuite^ 
kondo  shinki  ni  waki  ye  tatte  orimasii. 

Kyoshi  wa,  Seiyojin  desu  ka  ? 

S6  de  gozaimasu .  Nichiyo -goto  ni  shussekt  sh He ,  sekkyo 
itasaremasu,  Kono  goro  de  wa,  senrei  wo  uketa  hito  ga 
yohodo  fuemashlta  so  desu. 

So  desu  ka  ?  Sore  wa,  naka-naka  sakan  na  koto  desii^ 
ne  / 

27.  For  dokoro  see  p.  41.  Nazo,  properly  "  etcetera,"  qsually  tones 
down  a  little  the  force  of  the  preceding  word.  We  have  tried  to  re- 
present this  by  the  term  "for  instance  "  in  the  English  version.  Mura, 
(*'  village  *^)  has  for  its  auxiliary  numeral  the  word  son,  which  is  but  the 
Chinese  synonym  of  the  word  mura ;  hence  rok-ka-son^z^'*  six  villages." 
Taisfuta,  lit.  «•  made  {shita)  great  (/«/)"=*'  important."     This  verbal 


FRAGMENTS   OF    CONVERSATION.  34I 

27.  Hearing  Yokohama. — J  see  quite  a  number  of 
islands  out  there.    What  islands  are  they  ? 

They  are  the  Seven  Isles  of  Izu.  The  one  in  front 
is  called  Oshima  (**  Vries  Island  "). 

Indeed  I  I  wonder  whether  there  are  any  people  living 
on  it  ? 

People  living  on  it?  I  -should  just  think  there  were! 
Why!  Small  as  it  looks  from  here,  yhes  Island  has 
a  volcano  in  the  middle,  round  the  base  of  which  cluster 
no  less  than  six  villages.  The  other  islands  too^hough 
doubtless  some  are  uninhabited,..4nostly  have  people 
living  on  them. 

Dear  me !    You  don't  say  so  I 

28.  A  Christian  Church. — There  is  said  to  be  a 
large  number  of  (Protestant)  Christians  in  this  town, — 
isn't  there  ? 

Yes.  Most  of  the  people  in  this  neighbourhood  are 
Christians. 

Is  there  a  church  ? 

Well,  hitherto  the  mayor's  villa  has  done  duty  as  a 
church.  But  it  is  too  small,  and  so  they  are  erecting  a 
new  building  on  another  site. 

Is  the  pastor  a  foreigner  ? 

Yes ;  he  comes  and  preaches  every  Sunday.  It  is 
said  that  great  numbers  of  people  have  been  baptised 
recently. 

Indeed  !     Then  Christianity  is  in  a  very  fair  way  here. 

adjective  can  only  be  used  predicatively. — ^28.  Were  Roman  Catho- 
lics intended,  the  term  TenskukyQ  would  be  used  instead  of  Yasoah&y 
and  Tenshudo  for  Kwaidd,  The  scba  in  ma-seba  is  the  stem  form  of 
the  adjective  sebai  more  frequently  simai,  **  narrow.*'  Going  to 
official  business**  is  shukkin;  to  any  other*  shutcho  or  sktissekL 


342  FRAGMENTS  OF   CONVERSATION. 

29.  A  Fire. — Oya  !  kwaji  to  miete,  hausho  je^o  utteru 
ga:-\shirase  hakari  da  kara^  daijohu  da  go/ — kogaku 
wa,  dockira  ni  attate  iru  ka  mite  kudasai. 

He  !  tadaima  soto  kara  maitta  mono  no  moshitnasu  ni 
wttf  sappari  miemasen  sd  desH,  Tabun  kinzai  de  gozai- 
masho,^  - 

30.  The  Theatre. — Chikagoro  Shintomiza  ga  aita 
so  desu  ga, — gedai  wa,  nan  de  gozaimasu  ka  P 

He  I  Kind  waki  de  kikimashltara,  kondo  wa  "  ChU- 
shin-gura  **  no  tdshi  dasd  de,  de-kata  mo  daibu  kao-zoroi 
daso  desu, 

Sddesuka?  Sore  ja,  kyogen  ga  ii  kara,  kitto  ataru 
desho. 

3 1 .  Early  to  Bed. — Hanahada  shitsurei  de  gozaimasu 
gaf-fwatakushi  wa,  go  men  komiirimasklte,  fuserimasu,' — 
myochd  wa,  yohodo  hayaku  shuttatsu  sum  tsumori  desu 
kara, 

Dozo  watakushi'domo  ni  o  kamai  naku  0  yasumi  nasai- 
mashl,  Komhan  wa,  zehi  kono  kaki-mono  wo  shi-agete 
shirHaimasenkereba  narimasen  yue,  yo  ga  fukemasho  to 
omoimasu  kara,  myochd  wa,  shikkei  nagara,  o  me  ni 
kakarimasen  ka  mo  shiremasen  ga,  zuibun  to  go  kigen  yd, 

29.  The  **  intimation  "  (shirase)  of  a  distant  fire,  that  is  of  one 
not  in  the  same  district  of  the  city,  consists  in  two  strokes  of  the 
fire-bell.  MOshimasu  ni  wa  =  **he  says."  The  words  sappari  mie- 
masen are  a  quotation  from  the  other  man,  and  50  desU  nearly 
=**he  says,*' — ^the  Japanese  construction  being  thus  pleonastic, 
having  the  equivalent  of  **  he  says  *'  both  before  and  after  the.  words 
quoted. — 30.    Shintomi-za  is  the  name  of  the  chief  theatre  m  TdkyO. 


Gedai,   **  title,'*   is   said  to  be  a  corruption  of  geidai,ittf  *'H&t  of 


y- 


FRAGMENTS    OF    CONVERSATION.  343 

29.  A  Fire. — Halloo  I  there  would  seem  to  be  a  fire ; 
they  are  ringing  the  .fire-bell.  However,  as  it  is  only  the 
'<  not  ice- bell/'  it  is  all  right.  Still,  please  go  and  see  in 
what  direction  the  fire  is. 

Well,  Sir!  a  man  who  came  in  a  minute  ago  says 
there  is  nothing  to  be  seen*  JProbably  it  is  in  one  of  the 
suburbs. 

30.  The  Theatre. — I  hear  that  the  Shintomi  Theatre 
has  recently  re-opened.     What  is  being  acted  there  ? 

On  enquiring  yesterday,  at  a  friend's  house,  I  learnt 
that  it  was  The  Forty-Seven  Ronins, — the  entire  play, — 
and  that  all  the  best  actors  are  taking  part  in  it. 

Indeed  ?  That  is  a  good  piece.  Doubtless  it  will  be 
a  great  success. 

31.  Early  to  Bed. — Although  it  is  very  rude  of  me 
to  do  so,  I  must  ask  you  to  excuse  me  if  I  go  to  bed,  as 
I  intend  to  start  very  early  to-morrow  morning. 

Oh!  pray  retire  without  paying  attention  to  me.  I 
must  positively  finish  this  writing  to-night,  So  probably 
I  shall  not  get  to  bed  till  late,  and  therefore  please  excuse 
me  if  I  wish  you  a  prosperous  journey  now,  as  I  don't 
know  whether  I  shall  have  the  honour  to  see  you  in  the 
morning. 

accomplishments."  For  the  story  of  the  Forty-seven  Rottins,  a  little 
epic  of  loyalty  and  revenge,  see  Mitford's  **  Tales  of  Old  Japan." 
Its  Japanese  title, — Chu-shin-gura, — well  describes  it;  for  the  tale  is 
indeed  a  "store"  of  the  feelings  and  deeds  of  •*  loyal  retainers." — 
31.  The  first  sentence  is  inverted  ;  the  clause  beginning  with  myocho 
wa  should,  properly  speaking,  come  first.  The  last  sentence  lacks 
some  such  final  verb  as  a  ide  nasaimaski.  The  phrase  Gc>  H^^n^o 
is  often  thus  used  where  we  should  say  "  goodbye." 


344  FRAGMENTS  OF   CONVERSATION. 

32.  Difficulty  of  xHfi  Japanese  Language. — 
Ddmo  I  Nikon  no  kotoha  wa,  taihen  ni  iri*kunda  mono 
dCf — ddmo  I  koshi  no  magaru  made  manande  mo,  shosen 
ohoe-tsukusemasumai, 

le  I  masaka  sono  yd  na  muzukashii  mono  de  mo  go- 
zaimasen,    Keiko  sae  sureba,  nan  de  mo  nai  koto  desu. 
^       33.    Asking  the  Way. — Chotto  michi  wo  ukagaimask. 

Kore  kara  san-cho  saki  noiokcro  uLkidari  ye  magaru  t 
yoko'cho  ga  aru^ga, — soko  ye  haitt^  sore  kara  mata  migi 
ye  magatte,  massugu  ni  iku  n*  desu»  '\^    '     /  , 

Sonnara,  kono  tori  tonarande  orimasii,  nef       ^  ^^ 

34.  The  Way  to  the  British  Legation. — Chotto 
monowootazunetndshimasu.  Igirisu  koshikwan  ye  wa, 
do  mairimashltara  yoroshiu  gozaimasu  kd  ? 

He  !  Sore  wa,  kono  Shimhashi-demae  no  yoko-dori  wo 
hidari  ye  massugu  ni  o  ide  ni  narimasu  to,  goku  hazure 
no  migi'tte  ni  Tora-no-mon  to  iu  mitsuke  ga  arimask.  Sore 
wo  o  hairi  ni  narimashlte,  doko  made  mo  o  ide  ni  narima- 
su  to,  Sakurada-mitsuke  to  iu  mon  no  mae  ye  tsuki-atari- 
masU.  Konda  naka  ye  hairazu  ni,  0  hori  ni  tsuite^ 
kidari  ye  doko  made  mo  irasshaimasU  to,  mukd  ni  Eikoku 
koshikwan  no  hata  ga  miemasU  kara,  jiki  shiremasu. 

Ddmo,  arigato  zonjimasU.    O  jama  wo  itashimashita. 

35.  A  Toast. — Aruji,  shampan  wo  tsuida  koppu  wo 
mochi-nagara,  za  wo  tatte : 

Kaku'Shinshi  wa,  yoku  komhan  wa  0  ide  kudastte, 
makoto  ni  watakushi  wa  kinki  ni  taemasen.  Nao  ai- 
kawarazu  shimmitsu  naru  o  tsuki-ai  wo  negaimasii, 

34.  Shimbasht  is  the  name  of  the  quarter  of  T5ky5  in  which  the  chief 
railway  terminus  is  situated.  Konda  is  a  contraction  of  kondo  wa, — 
35.  This  example  is  in  the  stifif  style,  bordering  on  the  Written  Lan- 
guage, which  is  usual  on  such  occasions.    Shampan  wo  tsuida  koppu. 


PRAQMENTS  QF  CONVBRSATION.  345 

3«.  Difficulty  of  the  Japanese  Language. — Really, 
Japanese  is  a  terribly  complicated  language.  Even  if 
one  were  to. study  till  one's  back  became  bent  with  age, 
one  could  not  learn  it  thoroughly. 

Oh  !  no ;  it  iis  hardly  as  difficult  a  thing  as  that.  It  is 
a  mere  nothing  if  only  you  set  yourself  to  it. 

33..    Asking  the  Way. — Please  tell  me  the  way. 

About  three  hundred  and  sixty  yards  further  on,  there 
is  a  turning  to  the  left.  You  must  turn  down  it,  and  then 
turn  again  to  the  right,  after  which  you  go  straight  on.  • 

Then  it  is  parallel  with  this  street,  isn't  it  ? 

34.  The  Way  to  the  British  Legation. — Excuse 
my  asking  you ;  but  would  you  kindly  tell  me  the  way 
to  the  British  Legation  ? 

•  Certainly.  Look  here !  If  you  follow  straight  along 
this  street  branching  off  to  the  left  in  front  of  Shimbashi, 
you  will  come  to  a  gate  called  Tora-no-mon  on  the  right 
hand  side  at  the  very  end.  ^o  through  it,  and  walk  on 
and  on,  till  you  come  to  a  gate  called  the  Sakurada  gate. 
Don't  go  through  that,  but  turn  to  the  left  along  the  moat, 
and  go  straight  on,  and  you  will  at  once  know  which  is 
the  British  Legation  by  seeing  the  flag  ahead. 

Very  many  thanks.  Excuse  me  for  having  trespassed 
on  your  valuable  time. 

35.  A  Toast. — The  host,  taking  a  glass  of  cham- 
pagne in  his  handy  rises  and  says  : 

Gentlemen !  I  am  really  overwhelmed  by  your  kind- 
ness in  coming  here  to-night,  and  I  trust  that  you  will 
ever  continue  to  favour  me  with  your  friendship. 

lit.  **  a  glass  (into  which  some  one)  has  poured  champagne."  Kaku- 
sAmMf,  lit. = each  gentleman."  Kinki  ni  ^a^mAs^n  lit.  =  *<  (I)  cannot 
endure  the  delight."  Nao  ai-kawarazu  eXc,==''*l  request  intimate 
intercourse  still  mutually  changing  not."    Nam  is  here  bookish  for  ita. 


346  FRAGMENTS   OF   CONVBRSATIOK. 

36.  Keeping  a  Visitor  Waiting. — Hanahada  shikkei 
deshita,     Shi-kaketa  yd  ga  atte,  0  matase  mdshimashita. 

Do  itashimashlte  /  yitsu  wa,  sensei  ni  0  negai  ga  atte 
deta  n'  desu  ga, — 0  isogashii  tokoro  wo, — hanahada  sumi- 
tnasen, 

37.    LOOKING  IN  ON  AN  INTIMATE  FRIEND. 
Kyaku,  Konnichi  wa  !  O  taku  desu  ka  ? 

Aruji.    Dare  ka  kita.    Dete  mi-na  / 

.    Nyoho,   Hai  /  oya  /  ma  !  jKochifa  ye, 

(/ 

Kyaku,  Kyo  wa  mo  doko  ye  ha  o  ide  desu  ka  P 
Nyoho,   le,  orimasu.     Md  !  o46ri  asohase...  Anata  ! 

Nakayoshi  San  ga  irasshaimashita  yo  I 
.Aruji,    Soka?...  Sdf  kochiraye. 
Kyaku,  Sensei  o  uchi  datta^ne  ! 
Aruji, .  Yoku  hayaku  0  de-kake  deshita, 
Kyaku,  Hayaku  mo  nai.     Mo  ku-ji  sugi  da, 
A  ruji/  M(ititha/io  ! 
Kya^u,  Kyo  wa   Sunday   da   kara,  mo  o  rusu  ka  to 

omotta, 
Aruji,     Sunday  de  mo,  bet^fian  ate-hameia  yo  ga  nai 

shif  sukoshi  kHSun  ga  warui  kara,  doko  ye  mo 

demasen  deshita, 

36.  Near  the  end,  viz.  after  tokoro  wo,  a  sentence  is  left  unfinished. 
Hanahada  sumimasen  =" it  is  very  improper"  (of  me  to  have  in- 
truded on  you). — 37.  This  example  and  the  next  are  taken  from  the 
.  ^'Fude  Skashin.'*  Observe  how  in  Japan  it  is  the  husband  who 
orders  his  wife  about,  and  not  vice  versd.  The  word  nyobo  is  non- 
honorific.  For  the  na  of  dete  mi-na,  see  p.  163,  N.  B. — Male  speakers 
should  avoid  such  strings  of  exclamations  as  Hai  \  oya  I  ma  I  and  also 
the  anata  used  as  an  interjection,  and  the  yo  in  the  good  lady's  next 


FRAGMENTS   OF   CONVERSATION.  347 

36.  Keeping  a  Visitor  Waiting. — Kindly  excuse  my 
rudeness  in  keeping  you  waiting  j  but  I  was  occupied  with 
something  which  I  could  not  leave  half-finished. 

Oh!  pray  don't  mention  it!  To  tell  the  truth,  what 
I  have  come  for  is  to  ask  you  a  favour.  But  I  must 
apologise  for  intruding  on  you  when  you  are  so  busy. 

37.    LOOKING  IN  ON  AN  INTIMATE  FRIEND. 

Visitor,    {at  the  door)    Good  day  I  Are  you  at  home  ? 
Host.        {to  his  wife)     Somebody  has  come.     Go  and 

see  who  it  is. 
Wife,      All  right. — {To  the  visitor)   Oh  !   is   it  you  ? 

Please  come  in. 
Visitor.  Has  your  husband  already  gone  out  to-day  ? 
Wife.      No,  he  is  at  home.     Please  come  in. — {To  her 

husband).    Here  is  Mr.  Nakayoshi. 
Host.       Indeed  ! — {To  the  visitor.)   Oh!  please  come  in. 
Visitor.  And  so  you  are  at  home,  I  see ! 
Host.       You  are  on  the  move  very  early. 
Visitor.  Not  at  all.    It's  past  nine  o'clock. 
Host.       You  don't  say  so. 
Visitor.  To-day  being   Sunday,  I  thought  you  might 

have  gone  out. 
Host.       True  it's  Sunday.  But  I  had  no  special  reason 

for  going  out,  besides  which  I  am  feeling  rather 

unwell.     So  I  was  stopping  at  home. 

remarks.  After  kochira  ye  supply  o  tori  nasai.  The  English  word 
"  Sunday "  is  paraded  by  the  speakers  to  show  their  erudition. 
Japanese  nichi-ydbi  would  do  just  as  well.  Betsudan  ate-hameta  yoy 
lit.  "  specially  allotted  (but  active  not  passive  verb)  business."  For 
shi  see  p.  78.  Observe  the  scantiness  of  honorifics  in  this  little 
colloquy;  arising  from  the  intimacy  of  the  two  men. 


348  FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION. 

38.    ARRIVING  AT  A  TEA-HOUSE. 
JochH.     Irasshaimashl !   Makoto  ni  o  atsu  gozaimasu. 
Kyaku,    Zuibun  atsuiy  ne  f    Motto  suzushii  tokoro  wa 

arimasen  ka  ? 
yocha,     Mina  san  ga  so  osshaimasu  ga, — kono  tori  fu- 

sagatte  orimashite,  makoto  ni  o  kinodoku  sama 

desu.    Sono  uchi  yoi  tokoro  ga  akimasu  kara^ 

doka  koko  ni  fiegaimasu. 
Kyaku,   So  ka  ?    Shikata  ga  nai. 

39.  A  Meeting  Dispersed. — Kono  aida  ckotto  o  taku 
ye  ukagaimashitara,  anata  wa  go  fuzai  de  gozaimashlte^ 
go  saikun  no  osshaimashita  ni  wa,  Ibumura-Ro  ye  enzetsu 
wo  o  kiki  ni  o  ide  no  yd  ni  uketamawarimashita  ga, — 
nani  ka  mezurashii  enzetsu  de  mo  gozaimashiia  ka  ? 

O  !  Sono  setsu  wa,  chodo  orimasen  de,  shitsurei  itashi- 
mashita,  Ano  hi  wa,  ai-niku  deshlte,  ne  / — mottomo 
chito  osoku  de-kakemashita  ga, — Ibumura-Ro  no  mde  made 
ikimasu  to,  doya-doya  hito  ga  dete  kimasu  kara,  naze  ka 
to  omotte  kikimashitara,  ni-bam-me  no  enzetsu-chu  nani 
ka  sukoshi  jorei  nifureta  koto  ga  atta  to  ka  de,  keisatsu- 
kwan  ga  chushi  wo  meijita  tame,  sude  ni  kaisan  ni  natta 
toko  deshtte,jitsu  ni  zannen  deshtta. 

Sore  wa,  oshii  koto  wo  nasaimashtta. 

38.  Observe  how  the  waitress  uses  honorifics  to  the  guest,  but 
not  the  guest  to  the  waitress.  There  would,  however,  be  no  harm 
in  his  doing  so.  Kono  tori,  "this  way,"  is  often  equivalent  to 
our  phrase  '*  as  you  see."  The  words  "  I  cannot  accommodate 
you  with  one  yet"  have  to  be  added  in  the  English  version,  to 
complete  the  sense.  Sono  uchi^  "  meanwhile,"  hence  **  soon." — 
39.  Go  fuzai  is  a  highly  cultivated  expression.  The  common  people 
prefer  o  rusu.  The  Ibumura-Ro  (rcJ=**  upper  storey  ")  is  a  tea-house 
in  Tokyo,  where  meetings  are  often  held  and  sets  of  lectures  de- 


FRAGMENTS    OF   CONVERSATION.  349 

38.    ARRIVING  AT  A  TEAHOUSE. 

Waitress,  Welcome !  It  is  very  hot  to-day,  Sir. 

Guest.  Very  hot,  isn't  it  ?  Haven't  you  any  cooler 
room  ? 

Waitress,  All  our  guests  ask  for  cooler  rooms.  But 
we  are,  as  you  see,  so  full,  that  I  am  sorry 
to  say  I  cannot  accommodate  you  with  one 
yet.  Please  sit  down  here.  Sir,  until  a  better 
room  becomes  vacant. 

Guest,        Oh  !  then  there's  no  help  for  it. 

39.  A  Meeting  Dispersed. — When  I  looked  in  at 
your  house  the  other  day,  you  were  absent,  and  your  wife 
said  that  you  had  gone  to  listen  to  a  set  of  lectures  at 
the  Ibumura  Hall.     Were  the  lectures  at  all  interesting  ? 

Oh  1  it  was  very  rude  of  me  to  happen  to  be  out  just 
then.  On  that  day  it  was  unfortunate,  you  know.  To 
begin  with,  I  was  rather  late  in  starting;  and  then, 
when  I  got  as  far  as  the  Hall,  I  found  the  people  all 
pouring  out  in  confusion.  And  on  enquiring  the  reason 
of  this,  I  was  told  that  in  the  second  lecture  there  had 
occurred  some  remarks  which  slightly  infringed  the  go- 
vernment regulations,  or  something  of  that  kind,  and  that 
the  police  had  ordered  the  proceedings  to  be  stopped.  So 
when  I  arrived,  the  meeting  had  already  broken  up,  which 
was  a  pity. 

Oh  1  I  am  sorry  for  your  disappointment. 

livered,  it  being  the  Japanese  custom  to  "  make  a  day  of  it,"  and  to 
have  one  lecture  delivered  after  another  for  hours  at  a  time,  sometimes 
on  the  same  subject,  but  very  often  on  different  subjects.  O  ide  no  yd 
ni  is  an  example  of  indirect  quotation.  The  direct  would  be  o  ide  da 
to  ;  conf.  p.  268 — 9.     Toko  near  the  end  is  for  tokoro. 


350  FRAGMENTS   OF  CONVERSATION. 

\  J 

40.     Shopping    at    MiYANosHiTA.—iirya^M.  —  Go    men 
nasai  I 
ji         Akindo. — He!  irasshai!     Chito  0   kake   nasaimashi  i 
Nani   ka  goran   kudasaimase  I    Mada   hoka   ni   iro-iro 
gozaimnsu.. 

Kyaku. — Omocha  wo  sukoshi  tnis^e  kudasai, 

A  kindo. — He  I  kashtkomdrimashita,  Kono  /^*  no  mono 
de  wa  ikaga  de  gozaimasu  ? 

Kyaku. — Naruhodol  kono  uchi  kara,  iru  dake  no 
mono  wo  yorimasho. 

Akindo. — Dannal  kore  wa  ikaga  de  gozaimasu? 
Tabi-makura  to  moshimashite, — naka  kara,  kono  torif  an- 
don  ga  demasu.  Koko  ga  satsti-ire.  Hiki-dashi  ga  futatsu 
arimasu.  Soroban^  yoji-ire,  kagami,  iro-iro  shi-konde 
afimasu.  .  Mada  koko  ni  ko  iu  miisu-ire-ko  no  o  bento  ga 
arimasu.  Kore  ga  fnde-sashif  kore  wa  tabako-ire.  Mina 
daijobu  ni  d'ekite  orimasu. 

Kyaku. — Mazu  sonna  mono  wa  yoroshii.\  Oku  wa, 
kodomo  no  miyage  ni  suru  «'  da  kara,  koko  ye  yori-dashita 
omocha  ga  kore  dake  to,  undo-dama  ga  mitsu,  muko  ni  mi- 
eru  shitan-iro  no  bon  ga  ni-mai  to,  kono  shashin-basami 
ga  futatsu.     Kore  dake  de,  ikura  ni  narimasho  ? 

Akindo. — He!  arigato  zonjimasu.  Atari-mae  wa, 
ni-en  roku-ju-go-sen  ni  negaimasu\  ga, — ni-en  go-jis-sen 
ni  0  make-moshite  okimasho. 

*  The  meanings  of  te,  properly  **  band,"  are  almost  endless.  Here 
it  signifies  *•  sort,"  *•  kind." 

t  For  sonna  mono  wa  yoroshii^  conf.  p.  302,  No  72,  and  foot-note. 


FRAGMENTS    OF    CONVERSATION.  351 

40.  Shopping  atMiyanoshita. — Customer, — Excuse 
me. 

Dealer, — Oh !  pray  come  in,  Sir.  Please  sit  down  a 
moment.  Please  inspect  my  wares.  I  have  others 
besides,  of  various  descriptions. 

Cws^ow^r.— Please  show  me  some  toys. 

Dealer,— k\\  right,  Sir!  How  would  this  kind  of 
article  suit  you  ? 

Customer, — Let  me  see !  I  will  set  aside  from  among 
these  the  ones  that  I  want. 

Dealer. — Sir  !  how  would  this  suit  you  ?  It  is  called 
a  travelling  pillow.  A  lamp  comes  out  of  it,  like  this  ; 
also  this  purse  for  paper-nioney.  It  has  two  drawers. 
There  are  all  sorts  of  other  things  inside  it, — an  abacus, 
a  toothpick-holder,  and  a  looking-glass.  Here  again  is  a 
luncheon-box  in  three  parts,  which  all  fit  into  one.  This 
is  a  pen-stand,  this  is  a  tobacco-pouch.  They  are  all  quite 
solidly  made. 

Customer. -r-'^tWy  I  don't  want  that  sort  of  thing. 
Most  of  the  things  I  want  are  intended  as  presents 
to  take  home  to  the  children.  Here  they  are  : — the  toys 
which  I  have  set  aside  here,  besides  three  cups-and-balls, 
two  of  those  sandal-wood -coloured  trays  over  there, 
and  these  two  photograph -frames.  How  much  may  the 
whole  lot  come  to  ? 

Dealer. — Oh!  many  thanks,  Sir.  The  usual  price 
would  be  two  dollars  sixty-five  cents  ;  but  I  will  let  you 
have  them  for  two  fifty. 

X  Negau,  *•  to  beg,"  is  often  used  by  the  lower  classes  when  ad- 
dressing their  superiors,  to  signify  "  to  say,"  and  even  "  to  do." 


352  FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION. 

Kyaku. — Sore  wa  taisd  takai,  Sonna  ni  kake-ne  wo 
itcha  ikenai.     Zutto  o  make  nasai. 

Akindo. — le  /  do  itashimashite  !  Kesshite  o  takai  koto 
wa  tnoshi-agemasen.  Bono  kurai  made  nara^  negaware- 
masho'^'  ka  P 

Kyaku. — So  sa  /  ne  !   Ichi-en  go-jis-sen  nara,  kaimasho. 

Akindo, — Sore  de  wa^  danna!  go  miiri  de  gozaimasu. 
Sonna  ni  kake-ne  wa  moshimasen,  Dozo  go  jodan  osshai- 
masen  de,  mo  sukoshi  o  kai  kudasai,\ 

Kyaku — Sore  de  wa,  ni-en  made  ni  kaimasho. 

Akindo. — Sayo  de  gozaimasu  ka?  0 yasu  gozaimasu 
ga, — mata  negawankereba"^  narimasen  kara,  o  make-mo- 
shite  okimasu.     Zehi  o  ume-awase  wo. I 


*  See  foot-note  to  preceding  page. 

t  **  Deign  to  buy  it  a  little  more  (dearly),"  i.e.,  «*  Please  give  me  a 
little  more  for  it." 


FRAGMENTS  OF  CONVERSATION.  353 

Customer. — That  is  awfully  dear.  You  mustn't  put 
on  such  fancy  prices  as  that.  You  must  go  down  a 
great  deal. 

Dealer. — Really  Sir,  how  could  you  expect  me  to? 
The  things  are  not  at  all  dear.  What  would  be  your 
idea  as  to  the  price,  Sir  ? 

Customer. — Well,  let  me  see !  I'H  take  them,  if  you 
will  let  me  have  them  for  one  dollar  fifty. 

Dealer. — Oh !  Sir,  that  is  unreasonable.  I  don't  put 
on  such  extra  charges  as  you  seem  to  suppose.  Please 
don't  joke  in  this  way.  Sir,  but  give  me  a  little  more  for 
the  things. 

Customer. — Well,  then,  FlI  give  you  two  dollars. 

Dealer. — Only  two  dollars  ?  That  is  cheap,  Sir.  How- 
ever, as  I  hope  for  your  custom,  I  will  go  down  to  that 
price.  But  do,  please,  Sir,  give  me  the  chance  of  recoup- 
ing this  alarming  sacrifice  by  buying  of  me  again. 


{  Supply  some  such  final  verb  as  negaimasu.  We  have  expanded 
the  idea  of  this  phrase  in  the  English  translation.  Ume-awaseru  is  lit. 
**  to  fill  in  "  (a  hole  with  earth)." 


1[45i- 


ANECDOTES. 

MAKOTO  NO  SEKKEN.^ 


Kencho-goro^  no  koto      de,     Kamakura^    Shikken    ni 

tteuchu^eriod  •  'a     fact  beiujf,      Mtaamakura      Me/fCMi      /• 

tsukaeta  Aoto  Saemon  Fujitsuna    to  iu  yakunin    ga, 

served    *Moio     Saemon     FwJUBuna  that  gaff    oMciai    [nom.) 

aru        yo       Nameri-gawa  wo  wataru  toki  ni,  kerai 

o^ertatH    utght      JfTatmerUriver  (accus,)  eroaaea  titme  in,  retainer 

ga  ayamatte  zeni  ju-mon  wo  kawa  ye  otoshimashtta  no 

{nom.)  erring,  coin  ten^eaah  (accus.)  river  to  dropped  (trans.)  act 

wo^y — Fujitsuna    wa,    kyu  ni     hito     wo        yatoi,^ 

tehereaa, — Wnjitamna  at^for^anddeniif  peopi€(accus.)having'hired^ 

taimatsu  wo  tsukete,       kotogotoku  hirowasete 

torehea  {accus.)  having^iighted,  eouapieteiy  hating^ ana ed^tO' 

kaeraremashita.^  ' 

piek^np,  deigned'to'retnrn, 

Kono        koto    wo         aru       hito       ga  waratte, 

Vhia  act    (accus.)    certain    people  (nom.)     ianghing^at, 

"  Wazuka  ju-mon  no  zeni   wo   oshinde,  taimatsu  wo 

**  VriHe         ten-caah  *a   coin(cucus.)grndging,  torehea   (accus.) 

I.  Students  curious  of  comparing  the  Colloquial  with  the  Written 
Language  will  find  this  same  story  told  in  easy  written  style,  in 
the  present  writer's  "Romanized  Japanese  Reader,"  i,  p.  34.  Vol. 
2.  For  the  use  of  nengo  or  *•  year-names,"  see  p.  113.  The  best  book 
of  reference  on  the  subject  of  Japanese  chronology  is  Bramsen's 
**  Japanese  Chronological  Tables." — 3.  Kamakura,  two  days'  journey 
by  road  from  the  site  of  the  modern  city  of  Yedo  or  Tokyo  was, 
during  the  Middle  Ages,  the  capital  of  the  feudal  rulers  of  Japan.  The 
HOjO  family  of  .SAf^^f«,  or  "  Regents,"  occupied  this  position  during 
the  thirteenth  and  a  portion  of  the  fourteenth  centuries,  and  Aoto 
Fujitsuna  held  high  judicial  office  under  the  fifth  ruler  of  their  line. 
Aoto  is  the  surname,  Fujitsuna  the  personal  (equivalent    to    our 


ANECDOTES, 

TRUE  ECONOMY. 

The  following  incident  happened  about  the  period 
styled  Kencho  (A.D.  1249 — 1256).  When  Aoto  Saemon 
Fujitsuna,  an  official  in  the  service  of  the  Regent 
of  Kamakura,  was  crossing  the  River  Named  one 
night,  a  retainer  of  his  let  ten  cash  fall  by  mistake 
into  the  river,  whereupon  Fujitsuna  hastil}'  hired 
some  men,  and  made  them  light  torches  and  pick 
all   the  money  out  of  the  water. 

Some  one  is  reported  to  have  laughed  at  this,  and 
to    have    said :       "  Through    grudging    the    ten    cash, 

*'  Christian  ")  name,  and  Saemon  a  kind  of  title,  which  has,  however, 
almost  come  to  form  part  of  the  actual  nan>e  itself.  The  Nameri- 
gawa  is  a  small  stream  near  Kamakura. — 4.  The  whole  sentence 
down  to  here  forms  a  sort  of  accusative  to  the  following  clause  relating 
Fujitsuna's  action  upon  what  had  happened.  "Thereupon"  or 
*•  whereas  *'  is  the  nearest  approach  to  a  literal  English  rendering. — 
5.  The  indefinite  form^a^ot  is  here  equivalent  to  a  gerund,  because 
correlated  with  the  gerund  tsukete  immediately  below :  conf.  p.  173, 
^  278,  and  p.  258. — 6.  Observe  how  the  sentence  is  rounded  off  by 
kaeraremashtta  (honorific  potential  for  kaerimashlta  ;  conf.  p.  244, 
^  403.  Further  examples  of  such  honorific  potentials  are  offered 
below  by  kikaremashita^  iwdremashita  and  mosaremashita).  Hiro- 
waseta  alone  would  sound  bald  to  Japanese  ears,  which  generally 
expect  to  have  the  whole  action  f.i  la  ted  down  to  its  very  end  ;  conf. 
p.  192. 


356  ANECDOTES. 

kattarif       hito       wo       yatottari    shite,   nyuhi    ga 

n^W'bnpimgf  pemple  (accus.)  umtvMriMg    dmimgt  expeaue  (nom,) 

taiso  kakattaro.        Kore  koso  Ichi-mon  oshimi 

great'demi  has'pr^kaklff^^st,    X*A<#  indeed  Onfeaah  grudging 

no  hyaku  shirazu^  da''  to     itta         so         desu. 
*»  hundred  ignores      4§  **  ihm$  smid  mppearanee    4§, 

Sore      wo     Fujitsuna  ga  kikaremashlte,         '^  So 

Vhai  (accus.)  Wujii§una  (nom,)  having'deigned'i^'heart  **  80 

omou     mono     mo       ard      ga, — tsuiyashita   zeni      wa, 
think  perg^nt   aif  tmaff^e  alih^ught — tpeni         e^tn     OM^fyr^ 

tsuyo      shite  irii  kara,     muyo         ni  wa        naran 

eireulation  dming  i§  becau»e%  utelettnett  !•  aa^f^r  hee^nteM^uoi 

ga, — kawa     no  soko    ye   shizunda  ju-mon     wa,    ima 

wphereat, — rtver   *»  h^tt^nt    to       tanh         ten'cath   aa^fer,  mmv 

hirowaneba,       tenka  no   takara    wo     ushifiau  kara 
if'dm-^^i^ieht^f    ^erld  *a   ireeunre  (accus,)      #•««      beemmte 

da^''     to     iwaremashlta. 
i§ "    ihai    deig»ed'i0'tmp* 

Kore-ra      ga    makoto  no  sekken     to    iu    mono  desu. 

Sneh^afihU  (nom.)  truth      *b    ee^nmm^^  that  aag   thing      is* 

Oku        wa  tori-chigaete,  sekken         wo 

J^^ttiff    as'terf     trnMing^and-mtia takings      «r«M#j»y     ((iccus.) 
okonau  tdme  ni  rinshoku     ni  naru    mono    mo  arimasu 

praetiae  aoMe  f»r,  partim^np  to  became  perfnt  «/#•     are 

ga, — sore-ra     no  hito      to      dojitsu    no      ron       ni 

whereat, — tuch'like  *#  people  u>Uh,  tantcda^  *»  di»eu»§i0n  to 

wa     narimasen. 
at* for,  heeomes'uot, 

Shikashi,         toji         no     keizai-gakusha  no  setsu  ni 

Jfeverihelettt  pretent'tinte  U  poUttcal^econotniBta  of  opinion  to 

itashitara,  ikaga  mosaremasho  ka  ? 

if'Oue'anadef    how     withtheifprohabty^deigM^tO'ta^  9 

7.  Oshimi  hti^=05himu  hito  "a  grudging  person."  Skirazu  is  not 
the  negative  gerund  of  shirut  but  its  Classical  *'  conclusive  negative 


ANECDOTES.  357 

Fujitsuna  must  have  been  put  to  great  expense,  what 
with  buying  torches  and  hiring  men.  This  ,  indeed 
is  to  be  Penny  wise  and  pound  foolish,'' 

Fujitsuna,  hearing  of  this,  said:  "There  may  be 
some  folks  who  think  so.  But  the  money  spent  is 
not  wasted,   because  it.  remains  in  circulation,  whereas 

the  ten  cash  that  sank  to  the  bottom  of  the  river 
would,  if  not  picked  up,  have  been  treasure  lost  to 
the  world.     That  is  why  I  acted  as  I  did.'* 

Actions  of  this  kind  are  examples  of  true  economy. 

Most  people,  mistaking  one  for  the  other,  fall  into 
parsimony  while  endeavouring  to  practise  economy. 
But  though  there  are  such,  Fujitsuna  is  not  to  be 
mentioned  on  the  same  day  as  they. 

Still,  if  one  were  to  ask  the  opinion  of  the  political 
economists  of  the  present  day,  what  would   they  say? 


present,"  which  is  equivalent  to  the  Colloquial  shiranai. — 8.    I.  e., 
"  I  do  this  because,  if  I  did  not  pick  it  up,'*  etc. 


3S8  ANECDOTES. 


^f  452.     ARIGATA^  NO  KICHIBEL 


Mukashi  ^^  Arigata  no  Kichibei"   to      azana        wo 
•tfite<eMl#y  •«  X**«MlE#ft/  '«    JEtfrM*e<**  ihmi  mUhname[<iccu5.) 

tsukeraretern^  ojiisan        ga    arimashite,  donna 

it'hamiug'goi'aMxed  otd^genUemUH  (nonu)  (there)  heiug,  whmi 

koto  de  mo     ^^Arigatai!  arigatai  /  *'     toyorokonde^ 

ihiugt  fewer  **(!  am)ihaukfHi  f   (I  am)thaHkfMir*  thai  rff^ieimg 

kurashtte    iru  hito  deshite^ — natsii    hito     ga      kite^ 
paBBiHg^ihe^iime  U  perB^u  being, — Bmmmer,perB»m(nom.)€»miaBg^ 

«<  Kyo   wa,     hidoi   atsusa  de  gozaimasu "    to     iimasii 

•«  Vo'datf  aB'fT,  vi^leui      heai  ia "  ihBii      Baym 

to,  kono       ojiisan      no  hento  niy  *^  Atsui  jisetsu     wa, 

trAeM,  ihiB  ^Id-geMtleMBan  *«  anBwer  in  t   **  S«<    «e««Mt  aB'f<mrt 

atsui  ho      ga   arigatai.^     Samui  jibun  wa,    samui  no 
k»i    Bide   (nom.)  (is)ihaHkf*ii,     €»id  «e«w«M  ««-/«r,     e^id  faei 

ga        arigatai"     to  yorokonde^  orimasu. 

(nom,)   (is)ikmthrmi  **  ikai    rejoicing  iB. 

Mata     hito       ga   Kichibei  no  bimbo     wo      sasshUe, 

m€gaiu   people  (nom.)  Riekihei  *b  poverty   (accus.)  gneBBimg^ 

^^Nani     ka  to        go         fujiyU        desho"     to 

^SotHelMng'or^iker  ikai  uwguBi  iHeoHvemieuee  BmuBt'ke*^  ikmi 

iiinasu  to, —  "  /^  /  watashi     wa        sai^shi       no  shimpai 

Bay  Bekeuf —    **.T«/       $me       as'for^       wife^kiid     '«    auxieiy 

mo  nakUj  umai  mono  mo  tabemasezu;  sono  sei  ka,  naga-iki  . 
alB0  iB'Moi,  iaBiy  ikiagB  atB0    eai'omi  f      ikai  eauBe  f,  ioag^iife 

WO       shite  imasii     kara,      arigatai "         to^, — tadd 
(accus.)  doing    am     hecauBCj  [I  am)  ikaukfni**  ikai, — oBereip 

7ian  de  7no  ^^ Arigatai"  to       itte     imasu, 

everyikiHg  **  Tkaukfui  "  ikai  taying     ia, 

I.  Arigatai  would  be  more  strictly  grammatical ;  but  the  stem  form 
arigata  with  no  is  more  idiomatic;  conf.  p.  122. — 2,  For  tsukerareU 


ANECDOTES.  359 

THANKFUL  KICHIBEI. 

Once  upon  a  time  there  was  an  old  man  who 
had  got  nicknamed  "  Thankful  Kichibei,"  and  who  led 
a  happy  existence,  always  thankful  for  everything, 
whatever  it  might  be.  When  any  one  came  to  see 
him  in  summer  and  complained  of  the  excessive  heat, 
the  old  man  would  reply:  **  In  the  hot  season  we 
must  be  thankful  for  the  heat.  In  the  cold  time  of 
year  we  must  be  thankful  for  the  cold." — If  again  any 
friend  should  sympathise  with  his  poverty,  and  remark 
how  inconvenient  it  must  be  in  every  way,  he  would 
say :  "  Oh !  no !  I  am  troubled  neither  with  wife 
nor   child,    nor   do   I   eat  savoury  food.     Perhaps  it  is 

for  this  reason  that  I  am  long-lived,  and  I  am  thank- 
ful for  it."  Thus  did  he  use  the  word  "  thankful " 
about  everything. 


iru. — 3.  To  yorokonde  =  to  itte  yorokonde,  i.e.,  "rejoicing,  saying 
that." — 4.  Arigatai  here  has  a  sort  of  objective  sense,  i.e.,  it  means, 
not  exactly  "thankful,"  but  "worthy  of  being  thankful  /or." — 
5.  After  to  supply  itte^  *'  saying,!' 


# 


360  ANECDOTES. 

Aru      tokiy    yoso     no    uchi  ye         itte,  kaeri- 

•M^eriuiat,  iitme  eiiewkere  *«     houie   im  havin/fg^ue,  retmrniHg* 

gake   ni    omote    no   hashira    de   atama  wo      kotsun  to^ 

wphile  4h^       front      *«       pott  ktf,    head  (accus.)  bntHpingtif 

huttsukemashita    ga, — yahari     ^^Arigatai!    arigatai  C 

hit  whereaBf—aito         «« Vhaathfnl !       ihauhrni ! " 

to   kuchi  no   uchi   de     itte   imasu  kara,       soba     ni  iru 

thai  tmouth  *»  interior  in  tagiug;     i»     becante,  aioug»ide  in    it 

hito    ga:    ^^ Kichibei   San  I    anata      wa^      nan  de  mo 

person  (nom.)    "  Miehihei      JfMr!         yow         affor,     eoertf thing 

ka  de  mo^  ^  Arigatai!  arigatai  /'    to    ii-nasaru      ga, — 
wphateveri      *  Ihankfnl !    thank  fwl  I*  ■  that  tay^deign  wpherea§^—* 

hashira  de  atama   wo         utte,  sazo  itakaro 

pott       Ay*   head  (accus.)  haviug'hitt   indeed    mtntt'be^ainfni 

ga, — sore    de  nani    ga     arigatai   «'   desti  ?"   to   kiki- 

9vhereat9—ihatbif9ti>hai{nom.)thanhfnifaet    it  f     that  when 

mashitara, —    ^^  He  /  kono     itai     no    ga     arigatai     no 
hc'had'heardi —  **  Vet  !  thit  painfnl  fact  (nom.)    thank fni  fact 

desii, 
it. 

^^  Naze    to  iimasu,  to^,  ima  huttsuketa  toki,  atama    ga 

**  1V*Ay  t  that     says  ufken,  note         kit  titnet    kead  [nom.) 

kudakete,  shinde  shimaimashita  nara,  itai  koto 

kaving-broken{intrans,), dying     kad'tinitked         if,  painfnl  fact 

mo    nani  mo    wakarimasen    ga, — inochi    mo   atama  mo, 
alto  anytking  nnderttand-uot  wpkereat, — life  alto    kead    alto, 

o  kage     sama  de^         buji        deshita      kara, 

koitonrable  inHuenee    •Vr.     by,  aceidentlett  kat^een  beeaute, 

itai  no        ga         shiremasu. 

painfnl   faet      [nom.)        ifkatotedble* 

"  Sore  desTi  kara,  makoto  ni     arigatai  '*      to   kotaema- 
**  Vkat    it  becante,  tmtk    in  (am)tkankfnl  **  tkat  ansaeered* 

shita, 

6.  Kotsun  to  is  an  onomatope  for  the  sound  of  bumping  or  thump- 
ing.— 7.  An  idiom,  also  pronounced  nan  de  mo,  kan  de  mo^     This  ka 


ANECDOTES.  361 

One    day,    when,   having  gone  to  a  friend^s  house, 

he   was   returning   home   again,   he  struck   his   head    a 

tremendous  blow  against  a  post  at  the  entrance.     But 

even  then,  one  who  was  near  him  heard  him  muttering 

his  thanks,  and  exclaimed  :  "  Mr.  Kichibei,  you  say  thank 

you  to  everything.     But  what  can  there  to  be  thankful 

for   in   hurting  yourself  by   striking  your  head  against 

a  post?" — <*VVhy!'*   replied    Kichibei,    "the    pain     is 

exactly  what    I  am  thankful  for.     Don't  you  see    that 

if,  when  I  struck  against  the  post  just   now,  my  skull 

had    been    fractured    and    I   had   died,    I   should   have 

felt    neither    pain    nor  anything  else,   whereas   I  now 

feel  the  pain  because,  thanks  to  your   kind   influence, 

my   life   and   my  head   are   both   safe?     That   is   why 

I  am  truly  thankful." 

or  kan  is  probably  the  root  of  kare^  *•  that." — 8.  Naze  to  iu  to  is  an 
idiom  meaning  "  for  this  reason,"  more  lit.  "  if  you  ask  why,  (then  it 
is  as  follows.)" — 9.  The  words  0  kage  sama,  "  thanks  to  your  kind 
influence,"  are  an  empty  compliment,  indeed  almost  an  expletive ; 
conf.  p.  304,  No  85. 


362  ANECDOTES. 

Suru  tOy^  kono  koto    wo        sahi-hodo      kara  koko  no 

Vherenp^Ht  ihia  ihimg  [accus,)  previ^us-peri^d  ainee,  here    '« 

inkyo^  ga         kiite     orimashlte,  ^^  NaruhodoP' 

retirett-^lthmaH  (nom.)  Uttening    having^eeu^  **  Oh  I'tudeed  S  ^^ 

to^^  kanshin    shite,  ^^  Aa  !      arigatai,  arigatai  /     Wa- 
ihai  atimiratioH  doing,  **•#*/  (Iam)ihawhrnh  ihauhfni! 

takushi  mOy  ima     wa  satori  wo   hirakimashita. 

I        oImo,  uom   affor^  eHiighienmeHi  [accus,)  huve^opened, 

^^  IrO'iro  nani      ka  no  sewa  ga   yaketari,^^ 

**Severai'h4Md8  setHethiHg'or^ther  *s   earea  [nom.)  Meimetiimet' 
sama-zama    no        tsurai         koto     ni    tabi-tabi 

buruiugt  variowfMort      9*   ditagreedhle  ihiuga      to  often 

attari  shite y  ^Aal        kurushiij         kurushii  I 

somtetimettmeettHg  doings  *  •# A  /   {it  is)  diatretting,  dtatresaing  ! 

yitsu    ni  kono    yo      ga  iya  ni      natta'         to 

Trnth  am,  thi»  worid  (nom.)  ohjeetionable    to  ha§-b€eome'*  thnt 

omou  koto  mo  arimashita      ga, —  kore     to     iu    no  mo^^ 
think  fact  alto  hwwbeen      tvhereat, — thia    that  aatf  fact  aUo, 

inochi  ga   aru     kara     no   koto   desu, 
life    (nom.)    it     becaute    *b      fact      it, 

"  Shite  mini  to^^  ima  Kichibei  San      ga      iu      tori, 

**  m^nd'thereforet        now    Kichibei   *JMr*    (nom,)   aaga     vpmaf, 

naruhodo  I  watakushi  mo  banji        ga  arigatai, 

yetwindeed!         I  alto,  anyriad'thingt(nom.)  (are)  thanhftUt 

arigatai  r''^^ 

thauhfnl!** 

10.  Sum  to  (short  for  so  suru  to)  is  an  idiom  which  is  often  used,  as 
here,  at  the  beginning  of  a  sentence,  in  order  to  resume,  as  it  were, 
what  has  gone  before. — xi.  Inkyo  denotes  a  person  who  has  retired 
from  active  life,  and  has  handed  over  his  business  and  the  greater  part 
of  his  property  to  his  successor. — 12.  After  to  supply  itte^  •'  saying," 
or  omotte,  "thinking." 


ANECDOTES.  363 

Hereupon  the  old  father  of  the  master  of  the  house, 
who  had  been  listening  to  the  conversation  from  the 
beginning,  was  struck  with  admiration,  and  said : 
•Yes  indeed.  Thankful,  thankful  must  we  be.  This 
had  taught  me  a  lesson.  Often,  when  worried  by 
divers  cares  and  confronted  by  various  misfortunes, 
I  have  said  to  myself  how  wretched,  wretched  it  all 
is, — and  what  •  an  odious  place  the  world  has  become 
to  me.  But  even  all  these  things  exist  only  because 
life  itself  exists,  A  careful  consideration  therefore 
shows  that,  as  Mr.  Kichibei  has  just  said,  I  too  have 
everything,  everything  to  be  thankful  for." 

13.  Sewa  ga  yakeru  (intrans.)  =  "  to  be  busy  and  anxious."  Sewa 
wo  yaku  (trans.)  =  •*  to  take  great  trouble." — 14.  Kore  to  in  no  mo  = 
*•  this  also,"  more  lit.  "  also  that  (which  people)  say  (is)  this." — 15. 
A  resumptive  idiom  similar  to  sum  to  a  few  lines  above. — 16.  The 
words  watak&shi  mo  are,  as  it  were,  hung  in  the  air  without  reference 
to  any  verb,  while  banji  is  the  subject  of  arigatai,  here  taken  in  its 
objective  sense  (conf.  p;  359,  note  4). 


364  ANECDOTES. 


f453.     MATEBA        AU        TOSHI. 

Mukashi  miyako  no  machi  ni  Unazuki   Bahd 

9MHei€Ht9^  eapilai  *«  tmereatUiie^quarier  4a§,  JY^dlditg  CroHntf 

to      iu     kuchi-benko   no      ii      mono      ga     aritnashitej 
ihai    tag  m»Hih-giibue»»  *»    g»oM  psrteu  [nom.)  (there)  beiug, 

itsu  mo  yome  ya      muko      no  sewa    wo    shite,   yo     wo 

aiwatft  bride  or  bridegroom  '«    heip  (accus,)  doings  Ufe(accus.) 

okutte  orimashlta       ga, — aru  toki  san-ju-go  ni 

pasting      9Pa§  avhereat, — ascertain    timef    tMrtyHoe  to 

naru*"  otoko  no  toshi  wo         kakushite,    ju-go  no  musume 

beeotmetmuiH  *»    peart  (accus.)  haoiug-kiddeu,  ^fieen  *8        g4ri 

to      engumi      wo      tori-mochi^  yuino      made  oku- 

with,  anarriage  (accus.)  had*arraugedf  betrothal^giftt  even  had- 

rasemashita       ga, — sono      nochi      muko      no   toshi  no 

eanted'tO'weHd  whereat^ — ihai  after^  bridegrooim  '«      peart     of 

fwketeru^     koto    wo  musume  no   oya    ga      kiki-tsukete, 
adoaueed^ire  faei  (accus.)    girl      *t  pareni  (Hom,)haoiug'heard, 

^^  Hoka      ni   nani  mo  moshi-hun    wa     nai       ga, — mu- 

*«  XlsetPhere  iu,    attpihiug  objection   affor,  itn*i      bni, — bride* 

ko         to   7nusu7ne   to   toshi  ga    ni-jil    mo   chigatte  wa, 
groom  and  daughter  aHd,peart(nom.)ii0e»tt If  even  didTeringafforf 

ikani   shite    mo  yome  ni    wa      yarenai "      to     iu, 

hoiv      doing  even,  bride  to  at'for,  eannoi'tend**  thai  tapt, 

Otoko  no  ho   de  wa,         **  Yuino       made      sumashita 

Jftan    *t  tide  ou,  **  BetrothaUgiftt  eweu  have'eoucinded 

kara     wa,     shinrui  ye     taishite     mo,   sonna  futsugo  na 

tiuee  at'for,   hintmen   to  eonfrontiug  even,    tneh  incoHoenieHt 

koto     wa  kikasarenai  kara,  zehi      mora- 

ihiug  at'foTf  caHMOt'€aute»tO'hear  becdnte^     potiii»eip      if^ 

wankereha  shochi  shinai "  to    iu      kara,      nakodo         mo 
reeeioe'Mott  eouteui  do'uoi  **  that  tayt  becaute,  mtatch^tHaher  aito 

hidoku     meiwaku     shite,     tsui     7ii   kono      koto       wo 

oioieutttg    quaudarg     doing,      iati      at,   ihit         affair  (accus.) 

o  kami     ye  uttaemashlta. 

honourable  tuperiort    to  '  appealed. 


ANECDOTES.  365 

IF  THEY  WAIT,  THEIR  AGES 
WILL  COME  RIGHT. 

Once  upon  a  time,  in  the  mercantile  quarter  of  the 
metropolis,  there  lived  a  glib-tongued  old  woman  called 
Granny  Nod,  who  gained  her  livelihood  by  negotiating 
marriages.  Well,  she  once  arranged  a  matgh  be- 
tween a  man  of  five-and -thirty,  whose  age  she  concealed, 
and  a  girl  of  fifteen,  and  had  gone  so  far  as- to  malce 
them  exchange  the  gifts  customary  on  betrothal.  But 
afterwards  the  girl's  father,  having  heard  how  far 
advanced  the  bridegroom  was  in  years,  said  to  the 
old  woman :  **  I  have  indeed  no  other  complaint  to 
make  about  him ;  but  really  I  cannot  think  of  giving 
my  daughter  to  one  whose  age  differs  from  hers  by 
twenty  years." — On  the  bridegroom's  side,  however,  it 
was  urged  that  he  could  not  consent  to  forego  her, 
as  it  was  impossible,  even  vis-a-vis  his  relations,  to 
mention  such  a  difficulty  after  the  ceremony  of  ex- 
changing gifts  had  once  been  concluded.  Thus  the 
match-maker  was  placed  in  a  terrible  quandary,  and 
at  last  she  brought  the  matter  before  the  judge. 


I.  I.e.,  "years  which  will  agree,  if  one  waits." — 2.  Narti=natta, 
i.  e.,  •'  had  already  become  (thirty-five  years  old.)" — 3.  For  fUkete 
iru. — 4.  O  kami  de  «'a="  the  judge,"  more  lit.  "at  the  superiors," 
i.e.,  *•  the  Government.'*     The  words  immediately  following  mean 


366  ANECDOTES. 

O  kami       de     wa^y      so-ho  o 

M—tmnrahie    »npeH0r§     ai^  b»th»»4de$  houonrabiff 

yohi-dashi  ni  narimashite,  musume  no   oya   ni  **  Sonoho 

eaiiimg'fBrtk  to  hawing^beeetHe,     girl      *s  parent  i;      <*  IVtc 

wa^  ittan  yakusoku    wo         shtte^  ima-sara  nan  no 

OM^for,  0Hce  agreetmeMi  (accu5,)ha9iHg'imad€9  utV'aguiu  tehnt  *» 

kado    wo      motte   hadan   itasu^  ?''  to  0  tazune 

p»Mi  (accus.')  iakittgf  rmpiure  tmuhef  "  ihui  h^nmnrabie  enqnirtf 

ni  narimasu  tOy — **  He  !  kono    gi       wa,         nakodo     no 

!•     becomea  when^ — **•«*/    thia  aOatr    affor,  tmaieh'tmaker  *» 

mo?io     amari  itsuwari   wo   moshimashitey   san-ju-go   no 

perwoH  iootHweh       tie        (accus.)  kaviHg^iotd^         ikirtyMve     '# 

muko      ni  ju-go   no  yome   de    wa^    toshi    ga     ni-ju 

brMegre0§H  to,  Hfteeu  '«    bride     bp  at'for,  peart    (nom,)  imenttf 

chigaimasu.     Sore       yue      fushochi   wo   moshimashita, 

dialer,  rkat  oming'to,    diaaeui    (accus,)         (I)BaUi, 

Semete      toshi    hambun-chigai      narUy      musume     wo 
•0t»me9i     fgearB     kalf^differenee       if-were^         girl       (accus.) 

tsukawashimasho. 

wpiil'pr^bablyaenH, 

Kono  toki  yakunin  no   ' moshi-watasaremasu   ni     wa:^ 

VM»  HtHCi    oMeial     *«       deiguM^io^apeakmaeroBt    in    aff^rt 

**Sonnara,  sonoho  no  nozomi-dori  ni     shite    tsukawasii^ 

^  IfHt'lkut,      yon       •€    wUk^ufatf        in,      doing      Q]urill'gi9e 

kara,    ima  yori    go-nen  tatte  musume      wo 

becaute^  nou>  frou*,  Ave^yeara  kawing^elapaed,  dangkter(accus.\ 

okure,       Muko      no    ho   mo,    sore  made    wa     kanarazu 

give.    Bridegroom  *»     tide  aluo,    tkai    till      at* for 9  potiiioely 

matanakereha     naran,      Sono  toshi  ni      nareba,      otoko 

if-tvaiifnot,       doe»»not*     Vhai    year  to  wtfken'beeontetf  meut 

7va     shi-jii,   onna     wa         hatachi,  Chodo  hambufi- 

at'for,  forty  f  tooMtan  at'for,  tHfentyyeart.  Jfntt  kalf' 

chigai      no  toki  ni      naru "      to   moshi-watasaremashita 

ditference  '#  tiane  to   becomea  **    tkat  deigned'to^apeak'acroaa 

kara,        so-ho  osore-itte  sagarimashlta. 

beeanaCf  botk^aidea  fearing^entering       deaetaaded. 

yitsu  ni  omoshiroi        0  sabaki  desu, 

rmtk  in,  amnaing  koaaoatrgible  Jndgm^Ht  ia* 


ANECDOTES.  367 

The  judge,  having  sent  for  both  parties,  asked  the 
girl's  father  what  was  his  reason  for  breaking  off  an 
engagement  which  he  had  once  agreed  to.  The  father 
replied:  **You  see,  my  lord,  the  matter  stands  thus. 
The  match-maker  told  too  outrageous  a  falsehood, 
there  being  a  difference  of  no  less  than  twenty  years 
between  a  bridegroom  of  five-and-thirty  and  a  bride  of 
fifteen.  That  is  why  I  said  I  would  not  consent.  I 
would  give  him  my  daughter,  if  their  ages  differed  at 
most  by  half." 

Then  the  judge  gave  judgment  as  follows  :  "As  that 
is  how  matters  stand,  I  will  decide  in  accordance  with 
your  desire.  Do  you  give  him  your  daughter  five  years 
hence.  The  bridegroom,  on  his  side  also,  must  faithfully 
wait  till  then.  By  that  time  he  will  be  forty,  and  the 
girl  twenty.  It  will  be  the  time  when  their  ages  will 
differ  exactly  by  half." — Thus  was  judgment  given,  and 
both  parties  left  the  judgment-hall   with   deep  respect. 

Truly  it  was  a  witty  decision. 


literally  "  it  having  come  to  calling  forth  both  sides." — 5.  Observe 
the  total  absence  of  honorifics  in  the  judge's  address  to  the  litigant 
parties,  who  are  of  course  immeasurably  his  inferiors. — 6.  Lit.  **  in 
his  deigning  (honorific  potential)  to  give  judgment,"  the  verb 
becoming  a  sort  of  noun  capable  of  taking  postpositions  after 
it. — 7.  TsukawasU  (the  final  u  becoming  short  before  kara)  is  here 
a  sort  of  auxiliaryiB^arM;  see  p.  igi. 


3&B  ANECDOTES. 


f  454.        MUHITSU   NO  KAME.' 

"  Inu  no  hoeru  toki,  tora  to  iu  ji  wo  te  ni  kaite  nigitte 
oreba,  hoen  "  to  omae  ni  kiite,  tonda  me  ni  atta, 

Hoho  /  do  shite  ? 

Yiibe,  yo  fukete  kara  kaeru  to,  kame  ga  wan-wan  to 
hoe-kakarii  yue,  nigitta  te  wo  dashttara,  kore  I  konna  ni 
kamareta. 

Fu !  Sore  wa,  niada  Nihon  no  ji  wo  shiran  kame 
daro. 

•If  jIp  ^  ^  'If'  tlf 

Nihon-moji  wo  dashite  yomen^  mono  wa,  kame  hakari 
de  mo  artimai, 

f  455.   kyDdai  awa  wo  ueru. 

Kinzai  no  hyakusho  de^,  kyodai  no  mono  ga  awa  wo 
tsukurimashite,  tori-ire  no  toki  ni  n^ru  to,  ani  ga  ototo 
ni  iimasu  ni  wa* :     *^  Kono  awa  wa^futari  shite  tsukutta 

Notes  to  IF  454. — \.  This  and  the  live  following  anecdotes  are  taken, 
with  slight  alterations  to  make  the  phraseology  more  Colloquial,  from 
the  "  Jogaku  Soshiy'*  or  "  Ladies*  Journal  of  Education."  For  kame, 
see  p.  25.  The  idea  at  the  bottom  of  this  story  as  to  the  magic  power  of 
the  Chinese  character  )^,  **  tiger/*  is  one  commonly  held  by  the  lower 


ANECDOTES.  369 


AN    ILLITERATE   DOG. 

You  told  me  that,  when  a  dog  barked  at  one,  he  would 
leave  off  doing  so  if  one  wrote  the  Chinese  character  for 
** tiger"  on  the  palm  of  one's  hand,  and  kept  one's  fist 
clenched.  Well !  I  have  had  a  rough  time  of  it  for  having 
listened  to  you. 

Indeed  !     How  so? 

A  European  dog  began  barking  and  flj'ing  at  me 
as  I  was  coming  home  late  last  night.  So  I  stuck  my 
clenched  fist  out  towards  him,  and  just  look  how  I  got 
bitten. 

Oh !  Then  probably  it  was  a  dog  who  had  not  yet 
learnt  Japanese  writing. 

****** 

Dogs  are  doubtless  not  the  only  creatures  incapable  of 
reading  Japanese  writing  when  shown  it. 


TWO  BROTHERS  WHO  PLANTED 
MILLET. 

Two  brothers,  who  were  peasants  living  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  a  city,  had  planted  some  millet.  So,  when 
harvest  time  arrived,  the  elder  brother  said  to  the 
younger :     "  As  we  planted  this  millet  together,  we  must 

classes. — 2.    Different  nominatives  must  be  supplied  to  the  two  verbs 

dashite  sindyomen;  for  it  is  one  person  who  is  supposed  to  show  (lit. 

put  forth)  the  character,  and  another  who  cannot  read  it  when  so  shown. 

Notes  to  IF  455. — i.  De  here  signifies  "being ;"  see  p.  .60,  IT  88. — 2. 


370  ANECDOTES. 

karUy  wakeneba  naran  ga, — watashi  wa  ue  no  ho  no 
hamhufi  wo  torn,  Omae  wa,  shita  no  hambun  wo  tori 
nasai,  Sono  kawari,  rainen  wa  watashi  ga  shita  no  ho  wo 
torn'*  to  iimashita^  kara,  ototo  mo,  fishochi  de  wa  ari- 
masu  ga, — ani  no  iu  koto  yue,  shlkata  naku  koraete,  rai 
nen  wo  matte  imashlta  ga, — sono  koro  ni  natte  mo,  ani 
wa  tonto  awa  wo  uem  hanashi  ga  nai  kara,  ototo  ga  sai- 
soku  wo  shimasu  to,  ani  no  iimasu  ni  wa :  "  Kotoshi 
wa,  imo  wo  ueyo  ka  to  omote^  iru  "  to  kotaemashlta. 

Kyodai-naka  de  mo  ** kinsen  wa  tanin  da''  to  iimasu 
ga, — kore-ra  no  koto  desho,^ 

%  456.  SAKE  NO  YUME. 

Sake-zuki  ga  aru  hi  futsuka-yoi  de  zutsu  ga  shimasu'^ 
kara,  hachi-maki  wo  shi-nagara  nete  iru  to,  yume  ni 
sake  wo  htto-taru  hirotte,  6-yorokobi  de,  noman^  saki  kara 
shita-uchi  shite,  "  Kanro  !  kanro  I  koitsu  hiroi-mono  wa^y 
keisatsti-sho  ye  todokeru  no  ga  atarimae  da  ga, — sake  to 
kite  wa,^  mi-nogasenai,  Mazu  ip-pai  yarakaso  ka  ? — 
lya  I  onajikuba^,  kan  wo  shite  nomu  ho  ga  ii  "  to  itte,  kan 
wo  tsukeyo  to  sum  toki,  jiJt-ni-ji  no  don  no  oto  ni  odoroite, 
me  ga  samemashita  kara,  zannen-gatte  i  ^^Aai  hayaku 
hiya  de  nomeba  yokatta  J  " 

Lit.  **  as  for  in  the  elder  brother's  saying  to  the  younger  brother/*  i.e., 
**  what  the  elder  said  to  the  younger  was  as  follows."  For  the  repeti- 
tion of  to  iimashita  after  the  quotation,  see  p.  271. — 4.  For  omdie  in- 
stead of  omotte,  see  p.  159. — 5.  Lit.  *'  even  among  brothers,  whereas 
people  say  that,  as  for  coin,  it  is  strangers,  it  is  probably  things 
like  this." 


ANECDOTES.  371 

divide  it.  I  shall  take  the  upper  half.  Do  you  take  the 
lower.  To  make  matters  straight,  I  will  take  the  lower 
half  next  year."  The  younger  brother,  though  dissatis- 
fied, could  not  but  accept  the  decision  of  the  other,  as 
being  the  elder,  and  awaited  his  turn  in  the  ensuing  year. 
But  when  the  season  came  on,  the' elder  brother  said  no- 
thing at  all  about  planting  millet,  till  the  younger  brother 
pressed  him,  and  then  he  replied  that  that  year  he  thought 
of  planting  potatoes. 

'  Doubtless  this  is  the  sort  of  conduct  to  which  the 
proverb  about  "money  making  men  strangers  to  each 
other  *'  refers.     The  proverb  holds  good  e^jA  of  brothers. 


)l^R. 


A   DREAM    OF   LIQ1 

Once  upon  a  time  a  toper,  feeling  headachy  4)n  the  day 
after  a  spree,  had  fallen  asleep  with  a  toww^wrapp^d 
rourtd  his  head*.  Then  he  dreamt  that  h^jaad  found  a 
cask  of  liquor,  which  caused  him  so  much  joji  Jhat  he 
licked  his  chops  before  tasting  it,  and  said :  IPJPV^  ^^^^" 
cious !  how  delicious !  It  would  be  the  proper  thing,  w^th 
such  a  find,  to  report  it  at  the  police-office.  But  a  ^^nd- 
fall  like  this  liquor  ! — no !  I  cannot  let  it  escape  me.  Well ! 
shall  I  take  a  glass  ? — No,  no  !  There  will  be  nothing  lost 
by  waiting  till  I  warm  it."  So  he  was  just  going  to  set 
it  to  warm,  when  the  midday  gun'  wakened  him  with  a 
start,  whereupon  he-ruefully  exclaimed  :  "  Oh  !  what  a 
pity  it  was  that  I  did  not  make  haste  to  drink  it  cold  !" 

•  Notes  to  ^\  456. — i.  See  1!  357,  p.  221. — 2.  To  help  to  cure  the 
headache. — 3.  For  the  negative  nomauy  instead  of  the  positive,  see 
bottom  of  p.  264. — 4.  Lit.  *'As  for  this  fellow,  the  pick  up  thing," 
freely  rendered  by  **  such  a  find  as  this." — 5.  Lit.  *'  as  for  having 
come  as  liquor,"  meant  to  convey  the  meaning  of  "  a  windfall  of 


372  ANECDOTES. 

f  457.  HAYARI  WO  OU.' 

Wakai  otoko  ga  f Atari  Fukiya-cho  no  Eri-Zen}  no 
mise-saki  de  iki-aimashita  tokoro  ga,  hitori  wa  awata- 
dashtku  te  wofutte,  ^^  Kimi  ni  wa  iro-iro  o  hanashi  mo 
arimasH  ga, — ima  kyjiyo^  ga  dekitCy  kitaku  suru  tokoro 
desu^  kara,  izure  kinjitsu  o  tazune  moshimasho''  to  iu  to, — 
domo  sono  yosu  ga  hen  da  kara',  hitori  wa  odoroite, 
"  Kyuyo  to  wa,^  go  hyonin  de  mo  aru  n'^  desu  ka  ?  "  to 
kikimashitara, — hitori  wa,  warai-nagara  :  "  7^  /  kanai  ni 
tanomareta  hayari  no  han-eri  wo  ima  kono  mise  de  kai- 
mashita  ga, — "^tochil  de  temadotte  iru  uchi  ni  ryuko-okure 
ni  nam  to,  taihen  desu  kara,  tachi-banashi  mo  o  kotowari 
moshimashita  no  sa  /*' 


liquor,"  this  Japanese  idiom  being  used  of  unexpected  events. — <5. 
Lit.  "  if  it  is  the  same  (i.e,  all  the  same),  it  is  good  to  drink  it 
having  made  heating."  Japanese  sake  tastes  best  hot,  and  is  general- 
ly taken  so,  it  being  heated  by  placing  the  bottle  in  hot  water — 7. 
Midday  is  signalised,  in  modern  TokyO,  by  the  firing  of  a  gun,  which 
gives  the  time  to  the  townspeople. 

Notes  to  H  457.— i.  Lit.  "to  pursue  fj^pHon."  2.  We  have 
rendered  Eri-zen  by  "a  haberdasher's."  The  name  is,  however, 
really  a  proper  noun,  compounded  of  eri  for  han-eri  (see  vocabulary), 
and  zen  for  Zentbei  or  some  such  "  personal  name,"  of  the  owner  of 


ANBCDOTBS..  373. 

THE  PURSUIT  OF  FASHION. 

Two  young  men  having  come  across  each  other  in 
front  of  a  haberdasher's  shop  in  Fukiya  Street,  one  of 
them  waved  his  hand  hurriedly,  and  cried  out :  "  I  have  a 
lot  to  say  to  you ;  but,  as  urgent  business  calls  me  home 
at  present,  I  must  put  off  the  conversation  for  a  few  days, 
when  I  will  come  and  see  you  at  your  house."  The 
other  astonished  at  his  friend's  strange  excitement,  asked  • 
him  what  this  urgent  business  might  be, — whether  he 
meant  to  say,  for  instance,  that  any  of  his  family  had 
been  taken  ill.  **0h!  no,"  replied  the  first  young  man 
with  a  laugh ;  "  I  have  just  been  getting  at  this  shop  a 
kind  of  kerchief  which  my  wife  commissioned  me  to 
buy  for  her.  The  reason  why  I  said  I  couldn't  atpp 
and  talk  to  you  now,  is  that  it  would  be  an  awful  thing 
for  her  to  fall  behind  the  fashion  while  I  was  loitering 
on  the  way." 

the  shop. — 3.  Observe  how  the  young  man,  true  to  the  habits  of  the 
student  class  at  the  present  day,  interlards  his  ordinary  conversation 
with  such  high-sounding  Chinese  terms  as  kyu-yd^  **urgent  business;" 
ki-takUf  *•  returning  home ;"  kin-jitsu^  lit.  ♦'  short  days,"  i.e.,  **  in  a  few 
days." — ^4.  Kitaku  sum  tokoro  desu  =  ^'^  I  am  just  on  my  way  home  ;" 
conf.  p.  40. —  5.  Lit.  **  as  for  (your  saying)  that  (there  is)  urgent  busi- 
ness " — 6.  N\  see  p.  77. — 7.  From  here  to  the  end  is  lit.  "  because  (it) 
is  terrible  if  (she)  becomes  to  fashion-lateness,  while  (I)  am  time- 
taking  in  the  road-middle,  (I)  refused  (honor.)  even  standing  talk.'* 
No  is  here  emphatic  (conf.  ^  113,  p.  76) ;  sa  is  emphatic  and 
exclamatory. 


374  ANECDOTES. 

f  458.  DAIKON.' 

Mommo  na  6-byakicshd  ga  daikon  wo  tsukuraseru  ni, 
ni'San-nen  omou  yd  ni  dekinaP  kara^  "  Okata  otokodomo 
no  sewa  no  warui  no  daro''  to\  Jibuti  de  hatake ye  dete^ 
tsiichi  wo  hotte  iru  tokoro  ye'\ — kosakunin  ga  tori-kahatUy 
^^  Kore  wUy  kore  wa  I  Danna  Sama  !  otoko-shu  ni  o  sase 
no.saranai  de^y  go  jishin  de  nasaru  to  wa^^  0  habakari  de 
gozarimasu  "  to  eshaku^  wo  sum  to, — danna  wa  hara  wo 
tatete,  "  Ore  ga  daikon  wo  tsukuru  ni,  ha  bakari  to  wa^ 
fu'todoki  da  "  to"^^  okoru  tokoro  ye,  mata  hitori  ki-kakatte, 
^^  Kore  wa  f  Danna  Sama  no  go  rippuku  wa  go  mottomo. 
Shikashi-nagara,  kare  wa  nan  no  fumbetsu  mo  nashi  ni 
moshita  no  de^^,  ne  mo  ha  mo  nai  koto  de  gozaimasnJ" 

Ato-saki  no  kangae  no  nai  mono  wa,  haji  no  ue  ni  haji 
wo  kaku  mono  da.^^ 

Notes  to  IT  458. — i.  This  story  and  the  next  may  serve  as 
specimens  of  the  jeux-de-mots  in  which  the  Japanese  sometimes  in- 
dulge. Here  the  play  is  on  the  word  habakari^  and  on  the  phrase  ne 
mo  ha  mo  naif  "  insignificant,"  but  more  lit.  "without  either  root  or 
leaf,"  as  fully  explained  in  the  portions  of  the  English  translation 
between  square  brackets. — 2.  More  lit.  "  having  radishes  grown," 
"  TsUkuraseru  being  the  causative  of  TsUkurUy^^  to  make/fience  *'  to 
grow"  (trans). — 3.  Lit.  "do  not  eventuate  according  to  (his)  way  of 
thinking." — 4.  Supply  omotte. — 5.  For  tokoro  ye^  here  rendered  by  "in 
this  situation,"  see  p.  40. — 6.  0.,,.dei  lit.  "not  deigning  honoura- 
bly to  cause  to  do." — 7.  This  clause  is  lit.  "  as  for  (the  fact)  that 
(you)  deign  (to  do  so)  by  (your)  august  self." — 8.  We  have  very  freely 
rendered  eshaku  wo  suru  by  the  word  "politely."     It  properly  signifies 


ANECDOTES.  375 

RADISHES. 

An  ignorant  farmer  had  been  growing  radishes*  for  two 
or  three  years  with  indifferent  success.  So,  attributing 
the  failure  to  his  men  having  scamped  their  work,  he 
went  out  into  the  field  himself  and  began  digging.  In 
this  situation  he  was  seen  by  a  labourer  who  happened  to 
pass  by.  **  Oh  Sir !  Oh  Sir  !  "  cried  the  labourer  politely, 
**  it  is  dreadful  to  find  you  working  like  this  yourself,  in- 
stead of  letting  your  men  work  for  you."  [Or,  **  If  you 
work  like  this  yourself,  instead  of  letting  your  men  work 
for  you,  you  will  get  leaves  only,''  ha  bakari  meaning 
^^  leaves  only,''  ^\while  habakari  ts  a  polite  phrase  here 
rendered  by  *^itis  dreadful,"]  The  farmer,  angered  by 
this  remark,  exclaimed:  "You  are  an  insolent  fellow 
for  daring  to  tell  me  that,  when  I  grow  radishes,  I  shall 
get  nothing  but  leaves."  Just  at  that  moment  another 
labourer  happened  to  come  up,  and  said  :  **  No  doubt  Sir, 
you  are  quite  right  to  be  angry.  Still  he  did  not  mean 
what  he  said,  and  so  it  is  not  worth  taking  any  notice  of 
it."  [Or,  ^*It  is  a  thing  having  neither  roots  nor  leaves.'' 
This  second  outsider's  and  would-be  peacemaker's  remark, 
thus  interpreted,  is  more  sweeping  even  than  the  first 
man's;  for  it  denies  the  production,  not  only  of  radish 
roots  (ne)  but  even  of  the  leaves  (ha).] 

The  thoughtless  have  to  suffer  perpetual  humiliations. 

"  to  apologise,"  "to  make  excuses." — g.  To  wa=to  iu  no  wa^  "the  fact 
of  your  saying  that.  ..'* — lo.  After  ^o,  supply  itte^  "having  said." — 
II.  The  sentence,  down  to  here,  is  lit.  "  Nevertheless,  as  for  hinrii 
it  being  the  fact  that  he  spoke  without  any  discrimination." — 12.  Lit* 
*f  as  for  people  without  consideration  of  after  and  before,  they  are 
people  wha  get  shame  on  the  top  of  shame." 


37^  ANECDOTES. 

f  459.  ATAMA  NI  ME^ 

O  tera  no  osho  san  ga  aru  toki  go-zuki  no  kyaku  wo 
yonde,  ichi-men^  uchi-hajimemasil  to,  ^^  suki  koso  mono 
no  jozu  nare^ "  de,  kyaku  wa  sumi-jimen  mo  doko  mo 
kotogotoku  tori-kakomimashita  kara,  osho  san  ga  kuyashi- 
gatte,  semete  ip-po  dake  de  mo  ikaso*  to,  shikiri  ni  me  wo 
koshiraeru  koto  ni  kufu  wo  shite  ortmasu  to, — atama  no 
*ue  ye  hai  ga  takatta  kara,  urusagatte,  go-ishi  wo  motta 
te  de  atama  wo  kaki-nagara,  "  Kono  hen  ni  hitotsu  me  ga 
dekitara,  okata  ikiru  de  aro.'' 

Atama  no  ue  ni  mata  hitotsu  me  ga  dekitara,  *^  mitsu- 
me  nyudo^ "  desu. 


.Notes  to  H  459. — i.  To  appreciate  the  point  of  this  story,  one 
should  know  the  game  of  ^o  ("checkers"  or  "go-bang,"  the  latter 
word  being  a  corruption  of  the  Japanese  gohan^  "  a  checker-board  "). 
In  one  variety  of  this  game  the  chief  object  is,  by  establishing 
"eyes,"  i.e.,  spaces  surrounded  by  not  less  than  four  of  one's  own 
counters,  to  stop  the  spread  of  the  opponent's  counters  over  the 
board.  Remember,  too,  that  me  means  both  "eye"  and  *.'Qpen 
space."  At  the  end  of  the  story  a  ludicrous  effect  is  produced  by 
the  alternative  idea  suggested  of  an  q|^n  space,  or  o.f  an  eye,  on 
the  top  of  the  priest's  head,  the  suggestion  being  equally  funny 


ANECDOTES.  377 


AN  EYE  ON  THE  TOP  OF  THE  HEAD. 

Once  upon  a  time,  the  priest  of  a  Buddhist  temple 
invited  a  friend  who  was  fond  of  playing  checkers,  and 
the  two  sat  down  to  a  game.  But,  as  the  proverb 
says,  **  fondness  gives  skill."  So  it  came  about  that  the 
friend  blocked  every  single  corner  of  the  board,  to  the 
priest's  great  mortification.  **  If  only,"  said  the  latter, 
*'  I  could  but  get  one  side  free ! "  And  with  these 
words,  he  made  constant  efforts  to  open  up  some  spaces 
[in  Japanese y  ^^ eyes''].  Just  then  some  flies  collected 
on  the  top  of  his  head,  causing  him  annoyance.  So  he 
scratched  his  head  with  the  hand  that  held  one  of  tlie 
pieces,  saying:  **  If  I  could  get  an  open  space  \in 
Japanese,  **  an  eye  "]  here,  probably  the  corner  would  be 
freed." 

Another  eye  on  the  top  of  his  head  would  have  turned 
him  into  [the  sort  of  hobgoblin  known  a^  a  **  three-eyed 
friar." 


whichever  way  you  take  it.--2.  Lit.  "one  surface,"  i.e.  "one  game  " 
(on  the  flat  surface  of  the  board). — ^3.  Lit.  "(a)  found  (person)  in- 
deed is  skilful  of  (the)  thing  (he  likes)."  This  proverb  is  in  the 
Written  Language,  where  the  emphatic  particle  koso  causes  the 
verb  following  it  to  take  the  termination  e.  This  peculiarity 
has  died  out  of  the  Colloquial. — 4.  Ikasu  is  the  transitive  cor- 
responding to  the  intransitive  ikifu^  "  to  live."  Thus  it  means 
"to  make  alive,"  hence  "to  free." — 5.  Or  mitsu-me  kozo,''  the 
"  three-eyed  acolyte,"  one  of  the  supernatural  terrors  of  Japanese 
youth. 


378  BOTAN-D^JRfl,  CffAP.    I. 

f  460.  BOTAN-DORO.^ 

DAI  IK-KWAI. 

Kwampo^  san-nen  no  shi-gwatsu  ju-ichi-nichiy  mada 
Tokyo  wo  Edo  to  moshimashUa  koro,  Yushima  Tenjbi^ 
no  yashiro  de  Shotoku  Taishi^  no  go  sairei  wo  okonai- 
mashltey  sono  toki  taiso  sankei  no  hito  ga  dete,  kunju, 
itashimashita, 

Koko  ni,  Hongo  San-cho-me  ni  Fujimura-ya  Shim- 
bei^  to  iu  katana-ya  ga  gozaimashtte^  sono  mise-saki 
ni  wa  yoi  shiromono  ga  narabete  am  tokoro  wo, — 
tdri'kakarimashita  httori  no  0  samurai  wa^  toshi  no 
koro  ni-ju-ichi'ni  gurai  de,  iro  no  shiroi,  me-moto  no 
kiriritto  shita,  sukoshi  kanshaku-mochi  to  miete,  bin 
no  ke  wo  gutto  agete  yuwase,  rippa  na  0  haori  ni 
kekko  na  0  hakama  wo  tsuke,  setta  wo  haite,  saki 
ni  tachi ;  ushiro  kara  asagi  no '  happi  ni  bonten-obi 
wo  shimete,  shinchu-zukuri  no  bokuto  wo  sashiteru 
chugen  ga  tsuki-sotte,  kono  Fuji-Shin  no  mise-saki  ye 
tachi -y or imashite,  koshi  wo  kake,  narabete  aru  katana 
wo   hito -tori   nagamete, — 

Notes. — I.  This  piece  consists  of  the  first  two  chapters  of  the 
BotanDoro  (see  p..  11),  slightly  edited  in  order  to  make  them  more 
genuinely  Colloquial,  and  to  remove  a  few  expressions  which  English 
standards  of  propriety  condemn. — The  title  of  the  novel  alludes  to  an 
incident  in  a  later  portion  of  the  story,  which  it  would  take  too  long 
to  relate  here. — 

2.  KwampOy  is  the  nengo  or  **  year-name/'  which  lasted  from  A.D. 
1741-4;  conf.  p.  113. 


botan-d6r6, -CHAP.  I.  379 

THE  PEONY  LANTERN. 

CHAPTER  I. 

On  the  4th  May,  1743,  in  the  days  when  T6ky6  was 
still  called  Yedo,  the  festival  of  prince  ShOtoku  was 
celebrated  at  the  Shinto  temple  of  Tenjin  in  Yushima, 
and  the  worshippers  assembled  in  great  crowds  on  the 
occasion. 

Now  in  Third  Street,  Hongo,  there  was  a  sword-shop 
known  as  Fujimura-ya  Shimbei,  the  fine  articles  exposed 
for  sale  in  which  were  seen  by  a  samurai  who  happened  to 
pass  by.  He  appeared  to  be  about  one  or  two  and  twenty 
years  of  age,  had  a  fair  complexion,  a  vivacious  expression 
in  his  eyes,  and  a  cue  tightly  bound  up, — indicative  of 
slight  quickness  of  temper.  He  wore  a  splendid  coat,  a 
beautiful  pair  of  trowsers,  and  sandals  soled  with  leather. 
Behind  him,  as  he  strode  along  in  front,  there  followed  a 
servant  in  a  blue  coat  and  striped  sash,  with  a  wooden 
sword  having  brass  fastenings.  The  samurai  looked  in 
at  the  shop,  sat  down,  and,  glancing  all  round  the  swords 
that  lay  there,  said  : 

3.  Tenjin  is  the  posthumous  name,  under  which  the  famous  and 
unfortunate  court  noble,  Sugawara  Michizane  (died  A.D.  903),  is 
worshipped  as  the  god  or  patron  saint  of  letters.— 

4.  Skotoku  Taishiy  the  great  imperial  patron  of  Buddhism  in  Japan, 
lived  from  A.D.  572-621. — 

5.  Strictly  speaking,  Fujimura-ya  is  the  name  of  the  shop,  and 
Shimbei  the  personal  (*•  Christian  ")  name  of  the  shopkeeper.  But 
Japanese  idiom  does  not  clearly  distinguish  between  a  shop  and  its 
owner.  Conf.  IT  55,  p.  38. — 


380  botan-dOrO,  chap.  I. 

Samurai :  "  Teishu  ya !  Soko  no  kuro-ito  da  ka, 
kon-ito  da  ka  shirhn  ga, — ano  kuroi  iro  no  tsuka  ni  nam- 
han-tetsu  no  tsuha  no  tsuita  katana  wa^  ma  koto  ni  yosaso 
na  shina  da  ga,  chotto  0  mise" 


Teishu  :  **  Heiy  hei  /—Koryaf  O  cha  wo  sashi-age-na  ! 
Kyo  way  Tenjin  no  go  sairei  de,  taiso  hito  ga  demashita 
karat  sadameshi  orai  wa  hokori  de,  sazo  0  komari  aso- 
bashimashitaro  '*  to, — katana  no  chiri  wo  harai-nagara, 
"  He  /  goran  asobashimase  "  to  sashi-dasu  no  wo, — samu- 
rai wa  te  ni  totte,  mimashite, — 

Samurai:  "  Tonda yosaso  na  mono,  Sessha  no  kantei 
suru  tokoro  de  wa,  Bizen-mono^  no  yd  ni  omowareru  ga, 
— do  da,  na?'' 

Teishu:  **Hei/  Yoi  o  mekiki  de  irasshaimasuru. 
Osore-irimashlta.  Ose  no  tori,  wataki^shi-domo  nakama 
no  mono  mo,  Tensho  Sukesada'^  de  aro  to  no  hydban  de 
gozaimasu  ga,—oshii  koto  ni  wa,  nanibun  juumei  de, 
zannen  de  gozaimasu.'' 

Samurai:  ^^Go  teishu y a!  Kore  wa  dono  kurai  suru,  na  ?'* 

Teishu:  ^^ Hei!  Arigato  gozaimasH,  O  kakene  wa 
moshi-agemasen  ga, — tadaima  mo  moshi-agemashita 
tori,  mei  sae  gozaimasureba,  tabun  no  ne-uchi  mo 
gozaimasu  ga, — tnumei  no  tokoro  de,  kin  ju-mai  de  gozai- 
masu," 

6.  Bizen  is  the  name  of  a  province  in  Central  Japan,  famous  for  its 
swords. — 


botan-dorO,  chap.  I.  3>8i 

"  Mine  host !  That  sword  over  there  with  the  iron 
guard  to  the  dark-coloured  hilt, — I  don't  know  whether 
the  braid  is  black  or  dark  blue, — looks  like  a  good  one. 
Just  let  me  have  a  look  at  it." 

**A11  right,  Sir,"  said  the  shopkeeper.  {Then  aside 
to  the  shop -boy  ;)  "  Here  !  you  offer  the  gentleman  some 
tea  !  "  {Then  again  to  the  samurai  :)  **  To-day,  owing  to 
the  crowds  gone  out  to  see  the  festival,  the  roads  are  sure 
to  have  been  dusty,  which  must  have  been  a  great  nui- 
sance to  Your  Honour."  Then,  dusting  the  sword,  he 
said  :  "  Here  !  pray  look  at  it.  Sir !  "  With  these  words, 
he  handed  it  to  the  samurai^  who,  taking  it  up  and  inspect- 
ing it,  said : 

**  It's  an  awfully  good  one.  So  far  as  I  can  judge,  I 
should  incline  to  consider  it  a  Bizen." 

"  Ah  !  "  replied  the  shopkeeper,  "  Your  Honour  is  a 
real  connoisseur.  I  am  overpowered  with  admiration. 
It  is  just  as  you  say.  The  other  dealers  in  the  trade 
make  no  doubt  of  its  being  the  handiwork  of  Sukesada  in 
the  sixteenth  century.  But  unfortunately  it  bears  no 
maker's  name,  which  is  a  great  pity." 

**  Mine  host !     What  is  the  price  of  it,  eh  ?  " 

**  You  are  very  kind.  Sir.  I  ask  no  fancy  prices  ;  and, 
as  I  have  just  had  the  honour  to  tell  you,  the  sword  would 
be  an  extremely  valuable  one,  if  only  it  had  the  maker's 
name  engraved  on  it.  But  as  it  is  anonymous,  th/e  price 
is  ten  dollars." 

7.  Siikesadq  was  a  famous  swordsmith  of  the  Tensho  period,  A.D. 
1573-1592.- 


382  BOTAN-D6RO,    CHAP.    I. 

Samurai  >  "  Nani  ?  ^u-ryo  to  ha  ?  Chitto  takai  yd  da 
ga,  shichi-mai  han  ni  wa  makaran  ka,  e  ?" 

Teishu:  **  Do  itashimashite  I  Nanibun,  sore  de  wa 
son  ga  mairimashite,^  hei  I  Naka-naka  mochimashite, 
hei  I  '*  toj — shikiri  ni  samurai  to  teishu  to  katana  no 
nedan  no  kake-hiki  wo  itashlte  orimasu  to,  ushiro  no 
ho  de  tori-gakari  no  yopparai  ga  kono  samurai  no 
chugen  wo  toraete, — 

Yopparai :  **  Yai  /  Nani  wo  shiydgaru  ?"  to  ii-nagara, 
hyorO'hyqro  to  yorokete,  patatto  shirimochi  wo  tsuki,yd- 
yaku  oki-agatte,  hitai  de  nirami,  iki-nari  genkotsu  wo 
furuiy  chO'Cho  to  huchimashtta  ga, — 

Chugen  wa,  **  Sake  no  toga  da "  to  kannin  shite, 
sakarawazu  ni  daichi  ni  te  wo  tsfiki,  atamd'  wo 
sagete,  shikiri  ni  wahite  mo,  yopparai  wa  mimi  ni 
mo  kakezu,  nao  mo  chugen  wo  nagutte  iniasu  tokoro 
wo, — samurai  wa,  futo  mimasu  to,  kerai  no  Tosuke 
da  kara,  odorokimashtte,  yopparai  ni  mukatte  eshaku 
wo  shite, — 

Samurai :  **  Nani  wo  kerai-me  ga  huchoho  wo  itashi- 
mashiia  ka  zonjimasen  ga,  tonin  ni  nari-kawatte,  wata- 
kushi  ga  0  wabi  wo  moshi-agemasu,  Dozo  go  kamben 
wo.'' 

Yopparai:  *^ Nani /  Koitsu  wa,  sonoho  no  kerai  da 
to?  Keshikaran  burei  na  yatsu,  Bushi  no  tomo  wo 
suru  nara,  shujin  no  soba  ni  chiisaku  natte  iru  ga 
tozen.     Sore  ni,   nan   da?      Tensui-oke^   kara   san-jaku 

8.  This  sentence  is  incomplete;  the  next  also,  the  worthy  trades- 
man being  too  much  excited  to  speak  grammatically.  Mochimashite 
is  polite  for  motte^  the  postposition. — 


BOTAN-DOady   CHAP.   I.  383 

<*  What  ?  you  say  ten  dollars  ?  1  hat's  rather  too  dear. 
But  I  suppose  you'll  go  down  to  seven  and  a  half, — won't 
you?" 

"Oh!  really"  said  the  shopkeeper;  "why!  I  should 
lose  at  that  rate.     Indeed,  indeed  I  should." 

So,  while  the  samurai  and  the  sword-dealer  went  on 
bargaining  about  the  price  of  the  sword,  a  drunkard,  who 
happened  to  pass  by  at  the  back,  caught  hold  of  the  samu- 
rais servant,  and,  calling  out  "  Hey  !  what  are  you  up  to  ?" 
staggered,  and  came  down  plump  in  a  sitting  posture. 
Then,  managing  to  get  up  again,  he  glared  at  the  fellow 
sideways,  abruptly  shook  his  fist  at  him,  and  began  to 
pommel  him.  The  servant,  laying  the  fault  on  the  liquor, 
took  the  beating  patiently,  and,  without  offering  any 
Mf  stance,  put  his  hands  on  the  ground,  and  apologised 
over  and  over  again  with  downcast  head.  But  the  drunk- 
ard would  not  so  much  as  give  ear  to  his  apologies,  and 
only  thrashed  him  the  more.  The  samurai  suddenly  hap- 
pened to  look  round ;  and,  as  the  fellow  being  thrashed  was 
his  own  retainer  Tosuke,  he  was  taken  aback,  and  made 
excuses  to  the  drunkard,  saying : 

"  I  know  not  of  what  rude  act  that  man  of  mine  may 
have  been  guilty  towards  Your  Honour  ;  but  I  myself  beg 
to  apologise  to  you  for  him.  Pray  be  so  kind  as  to  pardon 
him." 

"  What  ?"  said  the  drunkard,  "you  say  that  this  creature 
is  your  servant,  this  outrageously  rude  fellow  ?  If  he  goes 
out  as  a  gentleman's  retainer,  it  would  be  but  proper  for 
him  to  keep  himself  in  the  background  near  his  master. 
But  no  !  what  does  he  do  ?     He  sprawls  out  into  the  road 

9,  Rain-tubs  or  water-buckets  stand  in  certain  places  along  the 
streets  in  TokyO,  as  a  provision  against  fire. — 


384  BOTAN-DORd,    CHAP.   I. 

mo  drat  ye  deshabatte,  tsUko  no  samatage  wo  shite, 
sessha  wo  tsUki-ataraseta  kara,  yamu  wo  ezu  chochaku 
itashita'' 

Samurai  :  *^  Nani  mo  wakimaen  mono  de  gozaimasu 
kara,  hitoe  ni  go  kamben  wo,  Temae  nari-kawatte  0 
wabi  wo  moshi-agemasu." 

Yopparai :  "  I  ma  kono  tokoro  de  temae  ga  yoroketa 
tokoro  wo  tonto  tsuki-atatta  kara,  inu  de  mo  oru  ka  to 
omoeba,  kono  gero-me  ga  ite,  jibeta  ye  hiza  wo  tsukasetey 
mi-nasaru  tori,  kore  /  kono  yd  ni  irui  wo  doro-darake  ni 
itashita,  Burei  na  yatsu  da  kara,  chochaku  shita  ga, — 
do  shita  ?  Sessha  no  zombun  ni  itasu  kara,  koko  ye  o 
dashi  nasai." 

Samurai :  "  Kono  tori,  nani  mo  wake  no  wafl0l^n 
mono,  inu  doyo  no  mono  de  gozaimasu  kara,  dozo  go 
kamben  kudasaifnashi," 

Yopparai :  **  Korya  omoshiroi  I  Hajimete  uketama- 
watta  !  Samurai  ga  inu  no  tomo  wo  meshi-tsurete  aruku 
to  iu  ho  wa  arumai.  Inu  doyo  no  mono  nara,  temae 
moshi'ukete  kaeri,  machin  de  mo  kuwashite  yard.  Do 
wabite  mo,  ryoken  wa  narimasen.  Kore!  kerai  no  bu- 
choho  wo  shujin  ga  wabiru  nara,  daichi  ye  ryo-te  wo 
tsuki,  ^  yH'ju  osore-itta'  to,  kobe  wo  tsuchi  ni  tataki- 
tsukete,  wabi  wo  suru  no  ga  atarimae.  Nan  da  P  Kata- 
te  ni  katana  no  koi-guchi  wo  kitte  i-nagara,  wabi  wo  suru 
nddo  to  wa,  samurai  no  ho  de  arumai.  Nan  da  ?  Temae 
wa  sessha  wo  kiru  ki  ka  ?  "*^ 

10.  Observe  the  extreme  rudeness  of  the  style  of  address, — the  insult- 
ing pronoun  temae,  "thou,"  and  the  absence  of  all  honorifics.  The 
commonest  politeness  would  require  ki  desU  ka  for  ki  ka*  The  sober 
samurai  answers  politely,  the  verb  makaru  three  lines  lower  down 
being  peculiarly  courteous. 


fiOTAN-DORO,    CHAP.   I.  385 

a  good  three  feet  beyond  the  water-barrel,  and  prevents 
people  from  passing,  and  so  made  me  stumble  up  against 
him.    That's  why  I  couldn't  help  giving  him  a  thrashing." 

**  He  is  a  thoughtless  fellow,"  replied  the  samurai^ 
"  whom  I  earnestly  entreat  Your  Honour  to  pardon.  I 
beg  to  apologise  for  him  to  you  myself." 

"Just  now,"  continued  the  drunkard,  "as  something 
came  bang  up  against  me  when  I  staggered,  I  thought 
that  perhaps  there  was  a  dog  there.  But  no  !  it  was  this 
ruffian,  and  he  made  my  knee  hit  the  ground.  Here,  just 
look !  he  has  made  my  clothes  all  muddy  like  this.  I 
gave  him  a  thrashing,  because  he  was  an  insolent  fellow. 
What  do  you  think  of  that  ?  I'm  going  to  do  what  I  want 
with  him ;  so  be  good  enough  to  hand  him  over  to  me." 

"You  see.  Sir,"  replied  the  samurai^  "that  he  is  too 
stupid  to  know  what  he  is  doing.  He  is  no  better  than 
a  dog.     So  do  pray  be  kind  enough  to  pardon  him." 

"Well !  that's  good  !  "  retorted  the  drunkard.  "  I  never 
heard  of  that  sort  of  thing  before.  Is  it  etiquette  for  a 
samurai  to  go  out  walking  with  a  dog  for  a  retainer  ?  If 
he  is  no  better  than  a  dog,  I'll  take  charge  of  him  and  ' 
poison  him  with  strychnine.  You  may  apologise  as  you 
like,  I  won't  take  your  apologies.  Gracious  goodness ! 
If  a  master  wanted  to  apologise  for  his  servant's  insolence, 
the  natural  thing  for  him  to  do  would  be  to  put  both 
hands  on  the  ground,  and  to  express  his  regret  over  and 
over  again,  apologising  and  striking  the  earth  with  his 
head.  But  what  do  you  do  ?  While  you  are  apologising, 
you  are  busy  with  one  hand  loosening  your  sword  for 
use, — pretty  manners  indeed  for  a  samurai/  What  do 
you  mean?  Is  it  your  intention  to  kill  me,  you  low 
knave  ? " 


386  botan-dOrO,  chap.  I. 

Samurai:  ^^lya!  kore  wa,  temae  ga  kono  katana-ya 
de  kai'toro  to  zonjimashite,  tadaima  kanagu  wo  mite 
imashlta  tokoro  ye,  kono  sawagi  ni  tori-aezu  makari- 
demashtta  no  de " 

Yopparai :  "  Ei  !  sore  wa,  kau  to  mo  kawan  to  mo, 
anata  no  go  katte  da^^^*  to  nonoshiru  no  wo, — samurai 
wa  shikiri  ni  sono  suikyo  wo  nadamete  iru  to, — ^* 

Orai  no  hlto-hito  wa,  **  Sorya !  kenkwa  da !  ahunai 
zof" — *^  Nani  P  kenkwa  da  to,  e?*^ — "5o  sa  !  aite  wa 
samurai  da'' — *' Sore  wa  kennon  daT*  to  iti  to, — mata 
hltori  ga  :  ^^  Nan  de  gesu,  ne?'* — ^^  Sayo  sa/  katana 
wo  kau  to  ka,  kawanai  to  ka  no  machigai  daso  desu. 
A  no  yopparatte  iru  samurai  ga  hajime  ni  katana  ni 
ne  wo  tsuketa  ga,  takakute  kawarenai  de  iru  tokoro 
ye, — kotchi  no  wakai  samurai  ga  mata  sono  katana 
ni  ne  wo  tsuketa  tokoro  kara,  yopparai  wa  okori- 
dashlte,  *  Ore  ga  kao  to  shita  mono  wo,  ore  ni  busata 
de  ne  wo  tsuketa'  to  ka,  nan  to  ka  no  machigai- 
rashiV  to  ieba, — mata  hitori :  **  Nani  sa !  so  ja 
arimasen  yo !  Are  wa  inu  no  machigai  da,  ne  / 
*  Ore  no  uchi  no  inu  ni  machin  wo  kuwaseta  kara^ 
sono  kawari  no  inu  wo  watase,  Mata  machin  wo 
kuwasete  koroso'  to  ka  iu  no  desu  ga, — inu  no  ma- 
chigai  wa,   mukashi   kara  yoku   arimasu  yo  f      Shirai 

11.  Here  the  drunkard  uses  honorifics,  but  ironically. 

12.  Observe  the  incorporation  into  one  gigantic  sentence  of  all 
the  various   dialogues  of  the  bystanders,  from  here  to  the  end  of 


BOTAN-DORO,   CHAP.   I.  387 

"  By  no  means,"  replied  the  samurai.  **  It  is  only  that 
I  had  thought  of  purchasing  this  sword  of  the  dealer  here, 
and  was  just  inspecting  the  metal-work,  when  all  of  a 
sudden  I  got  in  for  this  row,  and " 

"Oh!  "  laughed  the  drunkard,  ** whether  you  buy  the 
sword  or  don't  buy  the  sword,  that's  your  affair ;  " — where- 
upon, as  the  samurai  continued  to  endeavour  to  appease  his 
drunken  frenzy,  the  passers-by  put  in  their  word,  saying : 

**  Look  out !  there's  a  quarrel !  take  care  !  " 

"  What  ?  you  say  there's  a  quarrel  ?  " 

"  Yes  ;  the  parties  to  it  are  samurai.'' 

"  That's  a  bad  look  out." 
Then,  as  another  asked  what  it  was,  somebody  replied : 

**  Well,  you  see,  it  appears  it's  a  misunderstanding 
about  the  purchase  of  a  sword.  That  drunken  samurai 
there  first  priced  the  sword,  and  was  just  refusing  to  buy 
it  on  account  of  its  being  too  dear,  when  the  younger 
samurai  here  came  up  atnd  also  priced  it.  This  angered 
the  drunkard,  who  found  fault  with  him  for  pricing, 
without  reference  to  him,  an  article  which  he  himself  had 
been  meaning  to  buy.  That's  more  or  less  what  the 
misunderstanding  sprang  from." 

But  another  broke  in,  saying,  "  Oh  dear  no  !  that's  not 
it  at  all.  The  misunderstanding  is  about  a  dog.  One  of 
the  two  said  to  the  other :  *  As  you  killed  my  dog  with 
strychnine,  you  must  give  me  yours  in  return,  and  let  me 
poison  it  with  strychnine  too.  Disputes  about  dogs  have 
always   been    common ;   for  you   know   how,   in    Shirai 

the  paragraph  on  p.  390. 

13.  The  touching  story  of  Gompachi  and  of  his  lady-love,  Komu- 
rasaki,  is  to  be  found  in  Mitford's  "Tales  of  Old  Japan,"  Vol.  I.,  p. 
35  et  seq. 


388  B0TAN-DdR6,    CHAP.    I. 

Gompachi^^  nado  mo,  yahari  inn  no  kenkwa  kara  an- 
na sodd  ni  natta  no  desu  kara,  neT*  to  iu  to, — mata 
soba  ni  iru  hito  ga :  "  Nani  sa  I  sonna  wake  ja 
nai.  A  no  futari  wa  oji  oi  no  aida-gara  de,  ano 
makka  ni  yopparatte  iru  no  wa  oji  san  de,  wakai 
kirei  na  hito  ga  oi  daso  da.  Oi  ga  oji  ni  kozu- 
kai'Zeni  wo  kurenai  to  iu  tokoro  kara  no  kenkwa  da  " 
to  ieba, — mata  soba  ni  iru  hito  wa :  **  Nani  /  are 
wa  kinchaku'kiri  da,'*  nado  to, — orai  no  hlto-bitq  wa 
irO'iro  no  hyoban  wo  shite  iru  uchi  ni,  hitori  no 
otoko  ga  moshimasu  ni  wa :  ^^  Ano  yopparai  wa, 
Maruyama  Hommyoji  naka-yashiki^^  ni  sumu  hito  de, 
moto  wa  Koide  Santa  no  go  kerai  de  atta  ga, — mi- 
mochi  ga  warukute,  shu-shoku  ni  fukeri,  ori-ori  wa 
suppa-nuki  nado  shite  hito  wo  odokashi,  rambo  wo 
hataraite  shlchu  wo  ogyo  shi,  aru  toki  wa  ryoriya 
ye  agari-komi,  jubun  sake  sakana  de  hara  wo  fukura- 
shlta  ageku  ni,  *  Kanjo  wa,  Hommyoji  naka-yashlki  ye 
tori  ni  koi !  *  to,  ohei  ni  kui-taoshi  nomi-taoshlte  aruku 
Kurokawa  Kozo  to  iu  waru-zamurai  desu  kara,  toshi 
no  wakai  ho  wa  mi-komarete,  tsnmari  sake  de  mo 
kawaserareru  no  desho  yoJ" — **  So  desu  ka  ?  Nami- 
taitei  no  mono  nara,  kitte  shimaimasu  ga, — ano  wakai 


14.  Each  of  the  larger  daimyos  usually  possessed  three  mansions 
in  Yedo,  respectively  distinguished  by  the  titles  of  ^am»  or  *' upper," 
naka  or  *'  middle/'  and  shimo  or  *•  lower.** 


botan-dorO,  chap.  I.  389 

Gompachi's  case,  too,  it  was  a  quarrel  about  a  dog  which 
grew  into  all  that  trouble.'* 

**0h  dear  no!"  said  another  onlooker  at  the  side  of 
him  who  had  just  been  speaking,  **  that's  not  it  in  the 
least.  It  seems  that  the  two  samurai  are  relations, — 
one  the  uncle,  the  other  his  nephew.  It  is  the  drunkard 
with  the  scarlet  face  that  is  the  uncle,  and  the  handsome 
young  fellow  that  is  the  nephew.  The  quarrel  between 
them  arose  from  the  nephew's  refusing  to  give  his  uncle 
some  pocket-money." 

But  another  man,  standing  by,  said  "  Oh  !  no,  he  is  a 
pickpocket." 

And  then,  among  the  various  comments  which  were 
made  by  the  passers-by,  one  man  delivered  himself  of 
the  information  that  the  drunkard  was  a  swash -buckler  of 
a  samurai  called  Kurokawa  Koz5,  who  was  living  in  the 
middle  mansion  of  Hommyoji  at  Maruyama,  and  who 
had  originally  been  a  retainer  of  my  Lord  Koide, 
but  who,  being  ill-behaved,  had  sunk  into  debauchery, 
used  often  to  frighten  folks  by  drawing  his  sword  at 
random,  and  used  to  roam  through  the  streets  in  a 
violent  and  disorderly  manner,  sometimes  forcing  his 
way  into  eating-houses,  and  then,  when  he  had  had 
his  fill  of  victuals  and  drink,  telling  the  eating-house- 
keeper to  come  for  payment  to  the  middle  mansion  of 
HommyOji,  thus  ruining  people  by  his  violence  and 
riotous  living,  so  that  the  present  row  would  doubt- 
less end  in  the  younger  samurai  getting  bullied  into 
treating  him  to  liquor. 

**0h!  is  that  it  ?"  said  a  voice.  **Any  average  man  would 
cut  the  ruffian  down.  But  I  suppose  the  young  samurai 
won't  be  able  to  do  so,— will  he  ? — for  he  looks  weakly." 


5go  botan-d6r0,  chap*  li 

ho  wa  domo  bydshin  no  yd  da  kara,  kiremai,  nef* — 
^^  Nani !  Are  wa^  kenjutsu  wo  shiranai  no  daro. 
Samurai  ga  kenjutsu  wo  skiranakereba,  koshi-nuke  da,'' 
nado  to  sasayaku  koe  ga  chira-chira  wakai  samurai 
no  mimi  ni  hairu  kara,  gutto  komi-age,  kampeki  ni 
sawarimashlta  to  miete,  kao  ga  makka  7ti  nari,  ao-suji 
wo  tatete,  tsnme-yori, 

Samurai :  "  Kore  hodo  made  ni  o  wabi  wo  moshite 
mo,  go  kamben  nasaimasen  ka  ?  '* 

Yopparai :  ^^  Kudoi !  Mireba,  rippa  na  o  samu- 
rai, — go  jikisan  ka,  izure  no  go  kanchu  ka  wa 
shiranai  ga, — o-ha  uchi-karashtta  ronin  I  "  to  anadori  ; 
"  Shitsurei  shigoku  !  lyo-iyo  kamben  ga  naranakereba, 
do  suru  ka?''  to  itte,  katto  tan  wo  waka-zamurai  no 
kao  ni  haki'tsukemashlta  kara,  sasuga  ni  kamben- 
zuyoi  waka-zamurai  mo,  korae-kirenaku  narimashita 
to  miete,  "  Onore !  shita  kara  dereba  tsuke-agari,  ma- 
su-masu  tsunoru  bari  boko,  bushi  taru  mono  no  kao 
ni  tan  wo  haki-tsukeru  to  wa,  futodoki  na  yatsu !  ** 
Kamben  ga  dekinakereba,  ko  suru,"  to  ii-nagara, 
ima  katana-ya  de  mite  ita  Bizen-mono  no  tsuka  ni  te 
wo  kakeru  ga  hayai  ka,  surari  to  hiki-nuki,  yopparai 
no  hana  no  saki  ye  pikatto  dashita  kara,  kembutsu 
wa  odorokl-awate,  yowaso  na  otoko  da  kara,  mada 
hikko-nuki  wa  shimai  to  omotta  no  ni,  pika-pika  to 
shita  kara,  ^*  Sora  f  mdtal"  to,  ko  no  ha  ga  kaze 
ni  chiru  yo  ni,  shi-ho  hap-po  ni  bara-bara  to  nige- 
mashite,  machi-machi  no  kido  wo  toji,  roji  wo  shime- 


15.  A  subjectless  and  highly  irregular  sentence,  lit.  "You !  when  I 
come  out  from  underneath  (i.  e.,  am  conciliating),  you  are  puffed  up 
with  pride ; — abuse  and  violence  accumulating  more  and  more ; — as 


BOTAN-D6R6,   CHAP.   I.  39I 

"  Don't  you  believe  it !"  whispered  another.  "  It  must 
be  because  he  doesn't  know  how  to  use  a  sword.  A  samu- 
rai who  doesn't  know  how  to  use  a  sword  is  a  coward.'* 

And  the  buzz  of  these  whispered  insinuations  found 
its  way  to  the  young  samurai's  ears,  and  he  flared  up, 
and,  evidently  flying  into  a  passion,  his  face  became 
scarlet,  and  the  blue  veins  stood  out  on  his  forehead, 
and  he  drew  close  to  the  drunken  wretch,  and  said  : 

**  Will  you  not  excuse  my  retainer,  even  after  all  the 
apologies  I  have  made  ?  " 

"You  wordy  idiot!"  laughed  the  other.  "To  look 
at  you,  you  are  a  mighty  fine  gentleman,  of  whom  one 
might  suppose  that  he  either  was  one  of  the  Shogun's 
great  vassals,  or  else  belonged  to  one  of  the  clans.  But 
yovL  are  a  dowdy,  disreputable  vagrant.  Nothing  could 
be  ruder  than  your  conduct.  I  am  less  than  ever  dis- 
posed to  excuse  you  ; — and  now  what  will  you  do  ?  "  and 
with  these  words  he  spat  in  the  young  samuraVs  face. 

This  was  too  much  for  the  patience  even  of  one  so 
long-suffering  as  the  younger  man.  "  Impudent  wretch 
that  you  are !  "  cried  he,  "  to  presume  thus  upon  my 
forbearance,  to  continue  getting  more  and  more  abusive 
and  violent,  and  actually  to  spit  in  a  gentleman's  face ! 
As  you  won't  accept  apologies,  here's  what  I'll  do  to  you!" 
And  with  these  words,  and  almost  before  he  could  be  seen 
to  have  placed  his  hand  on  the  hilt  of  the  sword  which 
he  had  just  been  inspecting  in  the  shop,  he  out  with  it  and 
flashed  it  in  the  drunkard's  face.  Thereupon  the  by- 
standers  took  fright.    "Oh!  he  has  drawn  his  sword  !  " 

for  your  spitting  saliva  into  the  face  of  a  person  who  is  (taru^  for  to 
am)  a  warrior,  what  an  impudent  fellow  1 " 


392  botan-dorO,  chap.  I. 

kiri,  akindo  wa  mina  to  wo  shimeru  sawagi  de, 
machi-naka  wa  hissori  to  narimashtta  ga, — Fuji-Shin 
no  teishu  hitori  wa  nige-ha  wo  ushinai,  tsukiinen  to 
shite,  mise-saki  ni  suwatte  orimashita. 


Sate  Kurokawa  Kozo  wa,  yopparatte  wa  orimasu- 
redo,  Nama-yoi  honsho  tagawazu*^  de,  ano  waka-zamu- 
rai  no  kemmaku  ni  osoremashite,  hyorotsuki-nagara  ni- 
ju-ashi  hakari  nige-dasu  no  wo, — samurai  wa :  **  Onore 
kuchi  hodo  de  mo  nai,  Bushi  no  aite  ni  ushiro  wo 
miseru  to  wa,  hikyo  na  yatsul  Kaere !  kaere!"  to, 
setta-haki  de  ato  wo  okkakemasu  to, — Kozo  wa  mo- 
haya  kanawan  to  omoimashite,  hyorotsuku  ashi  wo 
fumi'shimete,  katana  no  tsuka  ni  te  wo  kakete,  konata 
wo  furi-muku  tokoro  wo, — waka-zamurai  wa  ^*Ei/'' 
to  hito-koe,  kata-saki  fukaku  buttsuri  to  kiri-komu  to, — 
kirarete,  Kozo  wa,  **  A  I "  tto^''  sakebi,  kata-hiza  wo  tsuku 
tokoro  wo  fioshi'kakatte,  *^Ei!*'  to  hidari  no  kata  yori 
muna-moto  ye  kiri-tsukemashlta  kara,  hasu  ni  mitsuni 
kirarete  shimaimashlta,  Waka-zamurai  wa  sugu  to 
rippa  ni  todome  wo  sashite,  chi-gatana  wo  furui-nagara, 
Fuji-Shin,  no  mise-saki  ye  tachi-kaerimashita  ga, — moto 
yori  kiri-korosu  ryoken  de  gozaimashlta  kara,  chitto  mo 
dosuru  keshlki  mo  naku,  waga  gero  ni  mukatte  : 

Samurai:  *^  Kore !  Tosukef  sono  tensui-oke  no 
mizu  wo  kono  katana  ni  kakero!''  to  ii-tsukemasu 
to, — 

i6.  A  proverb.     Class  fagawazu  =  Co\\oq.  chigawanai. 
17.  Pronounce  atto  as  a  single  word,  tto  standing  by  emphasis 
for  to,  the  postposition ;  conf.  p.  80. 


BOTAN-DORO,    CHAP.   I.  393 

cried  they,  as  they  saw  it  flash  in  the  hands  of  him,  who, 
taking  him  for  a  weakling,  they  had  imagined  would  not 
draw.  And  then,  like  leaves  scattered  by  the  wind,  off  they 
fled  helter-skelter  in  every  direction  ;  and  the  ward-doors 
were  made  fast,  and  the  barriers  of  every  lane  were  closed, 
and  the  shop-keepers  all  shut  up  their  shops,  so  that  the 
whole  street  was  deserted,  the  old  sword-dealer  alone  con- 
tinuing  to  sit  listlessly  in  his  shop  front,  simply  because 
he  was  too  much  dazed  to  run  away. 

Well,  drunk  as  Kurokawa  KozO  was,  he,  on  the  principle 
that  *  a  tipsy  man  follows  his  natural  bent,'  scared  at  the 
rage  that  was  painted  on  the  young  samurai's  face,  tried 
to  escape,  and  had  gone  some  twenty  paces  with  a  stag- 
gering gait,  when  his  antagonist  pursued  him  with  his 
sandals  on,  and  cried  out,  **  Wretch  I  your  conduct  does 
not  bear  out  your  insolent  words.  You  are  a  coward, 
you  are,  for  showing  your  back  to  a  gentleman  whom 
you  are  disputing  with.     Come  back  I  come  back  !  " 

Then  K6z6,  seeing  it  was  no  longer  any  good, 
steadied  himself  on  his  staggering  legs,  put  his  hand  on 
the  hilt  of  his  sword,  and  was  turning  to  face  the  young 
samurai,  when  the  latter,  with  the  single  exclamation 
**  Ha !  "  slashed  deep  into  his  shoulder,  cutting  him  down, 
so  that  the  man  fell  on  to  one  knee  with  a  cry,  when  his 
opponent,  springing  on  him  again,  cut  at  his  chest  in  such 
wise  that  he  fell  sliced  obliquely  into  three  pieces.  The 
young  samurai  then  dexterously  gave  him  the  coup- 
de-gr^ce,  and  returned  to  the  sword-shop,  shaking  the 
blood  from  off"  his  blade.  As  he  had  from  the  beginning 
intended  to  cut  the  swash-buckler  down,  he  was  not  flurried 
in  the  slightest,  but  turned  to  his  servant,  and  said : 

"  Here,  Tosuke !  pour  some  water  on  this  sword  from 


394  botan-dOrO,  chap.  i. 

Satzen  yori  furuete  ortmashita  Tosuke  wa  :  ^^  Hei  !  ton- 
demonai  koto  ni  narimashtfa.  Moshi  kono  koto  kara  Oto- 
no  Sama  no  o  namae  de  mo  demasu  yd  na  koto  ga  gozaima- 
shite  wa,  ai-sumitnasen,  Moto  wa^mina  watakushi  kara 
hajimatta  koto.     Do  itashitara,  yoroshiu  gozaimasho  ?  ** 

Samurai:  ^^  lya !  Say  6  ni  shimpai  suru  ni  wa  oyo- 
ban.  Shtchu  wo  sawagasu  ramho-nin^  kiri-sutete  mo 
kurushikunai  yatsu  da,^^  Shimpai  suru-na  !  "  to,  gero 
wo  nagusame-nagara,  yUyu  to  shite,  akke  ni  torarete 
iru  Fuji-Shin  no  teishu  wo  yohi : 

"  Korya  I  Go  teishu  ya  !  Kono  katana  wa,  kore  hodo 
kireyd  to  wa  omoimasen  datta  ga,  naka-naka  kiremasu, 
Yohodo  yoku  kireru  **  to  iu  to, — 

Teishu  wa,  furue-nagara  :  *^  lya  /  Anata  sama  no  o 
te  ga  saete  oru  kara  de  gozaimasu.'* 

Samurai :  "  lya  I  iya  !  Mattaku  hamono  ga  yoi.  Do 
da,  na  ?  Shlchi-ryo  ni-bu  ni  makete  mo  yokaro  "  to  iu 
kara,  Fuji-Shin  wa  kakari-ai  wo  osorete,  **  Yoroshiu 
gozaimasii" 

Samurai :  **  Iya  /  Omae  no  mise  ni  wa,  kesshite 
meiwaku  wa  kakemasen,  Tomokaku  kono  koto  wo 
sugu  ni  jishimban  ni  todokenakereba  naran,  Nafuda 
wo  kakii  kara,  chotto  suzuri-bako  wo  kashite  kure- 
rof*  to  iwarete  mo,  teishu  wa  jibun  no  soba  ni  suzuri- 
bako   no   aru   no   mo   me   ni   tsukazu   ni,  furue-goe  de, 

i8.  This  sentence  excellently  illustrates  the  manner  in  which  Japan- 
ese sentences  sometimes  fail  to  hang  together  logically.    The  first 


B0TAN-D5Rd,   CHAP.   I.  395 

that  water-tub ; " — whereupon  TOsuke,  who  had  been 
trembling  all  the  while,  exclaimed  : 

"Oh!  Sir,  it  has  come  to  a  pretty  pass.  It  will  be 
dreadful  if  our  Daimyo  gets  his  name  dragged  through 
the  mud  because  of  this.  And  I  was  the  cause  of  it  all. 
What  shall  I  do  ?  " 

"Nay,"  said  the  samwrae,  to  comfort  him,  "you  need 
not  fret  like  that.  A  disorderly  fellow  who  goes  about 
disturbing  all  the  town!  there  is  no  harm  in  cutting 
down  a  creature  of  that  sort.  Don't  fret  about  it." — And 
with  these  words,  he  called  out  nonchalantly  to  the  terror- 
stricken  shop-keeper :  "  Ha !  ha !  mine  host  I  I  never 
thought  this  sword  of  yours  would  cut  as  well  as  that. 
But  it  does  cut.     It  cuts  first-rate." 

To  which  the  shop-keeper,  trembling  the  while,  made 
answer :  "  Nay  !  it  was  because  Your  Honour's  arm  is 
skilful." 

"  Not  at  all,"  replied  the  samurai,  "  The  blade  is 
really  a  good  one.  And  how  now  ?  I  hope  you'll  go 
down  to  seven  dollars  and  a  half." 

So  the  sword-dealer,  anxious  not  to  get  implicated  in 
the  affair,  said  that  it  was  all  right. 

"And  mind,"  continued  the  samurai,  "that  in  no  case 
will  I  allow  your  establishment  to  be  put  to  any  in- 
convenience on  account  of  what  has  happened.  Of 
course  I  must  report  the  matter  at  once  to  the  warden  of 
the  ward.  Just  let  me  use  your  writing-box  a  minute  to 
write  a  card." 

clause  is,  so  to  speak,  suspended  in  the  air,  as  if  followed  by  wai — 
'*  (As  for)  a  disorderly  person  who  disturbs  the  town-middle,  he  is 
a  person  whom  even  cutting  down  is  not  bad.'* 


39^  BOTAN-DORd,    CHAP.   I. 

"  Kozd  ya  !  Suzuri-bako  wo  motte  koi  !  "  toyonde  mo, — 
kanai  no  mono  wa,  sakki  no  sawagi  ni  doko  ye  ka  nigete 
shimai,  hitori  mo  orimasen  kara,  hissori  to  shitCj  henji 
ga  nai  kara, 

Samurai:  '^  Go  teishu  I  Omae  wa  sasuga  ni  go  sho- 
bai'gara  dake  atte,  kono  mise  wo  chitto  mo  ugokazu  ni 
gozaru  wa,  kanshin  na  mono  da,  na  I " 

Teishu  :  "  lye,  nani  /  0  home  de  osore-irimasu.  Saki- 
hodo  kara  haya-goshi  ga  ftukete,^^  tatenai  no  de  " 

Samurai:  ^^Suzuri-bako  wa,  omae  no  waki  ni  aru  ja 
nai  ka?**  to  iwarete,  yoyo  kokoro-zuite,  suzuri-bako  wo 
samurai  no  mae  ni  sashi-dashimasu  to, — samurai  wa 
suzuri-bako  no  futa  wo  hiraite,  fude  wo  tori,  sura-sura 
to  namae  wo  **  lijima  Heitaro**  to  kaki-owari,  jishimban 
ni  todokete  oki,  Ushigome  no  o  yashiki  ye  o  kaeri  ni 
narimashlta. 

Kono  shimatsu  wo  go  shimpu  lijima  Heizaemon  Sama 
ni  0  hanashi  wo  moshi-agemasu  to,  Heizaemon  Sama 
wa  **  Yoku  kitta  "  to  ose  ga  atte,  sore  kara  sugu  ni 
kashira  no  Kobayashi  Gondaiyu  Dono*'^  ye  o  todoke  ni 
narimashita  ga, — sashltaru  o  togame  mo  naku,  kiri-doku 
kirare-zon  to  narimashlta, 

ig.  We  have  freely  rendered  this  clause  by  **  unable  to  stir 
through  fright/'  But  the  popular  Japanese  idea  on  the  subject  is 
that  one  of  the  bones  actually  gets  put  out  of  joint  through  fright. — 

20.  Gondaiyu^  here  rendered  as  part  of  this  personage's  name,  was 
originally  a  title  indicative  of  a  certain  rank ;  but  it  came  to  be  used 
more  or  less  at  will  among  the  samurai  class.  It  is  to  be  supposed 
that  this  Kobayashi  Gondaiyu  was  an  official  entrusted  with  certain 


botan-dorO,  chap.  I.  397 

But  the  shop-keeper,  never  noticing  that  the  writing- 
box  was  close  beside  him,  called  out  in  a  tremulous  voice  : 
"  Boy  !  bring  the  writing-box  1" — a  command  to  which 
nothing  but  silence  responded  ;  for  all  the  people  in  the 
house  had  fled  none  knew  whither  when  the  row  began, 
and  there  was  no  one  present. 

So  the  samurai  exclaimed  :  "  Mine  host !  I  really 
admire  your  courage, — the  courage  proper  in  the  owner 
of  a  sword-shop, — sitting  here  in  your  shop  without 
moving  an  inch,  notwithstanding  this  affray." 

**  Nay  !  Sir,"  gasped  the  tradesman.  **  Your  praise 
covers  me  with  confusion.  I  have  been  unable  to  stir 
through  fright  ever  since  the  beginning  of  it,  and " 

**Why!"  said  the  samurai,  "isn't  the  writing-box 
there  at  your  side  ?  " 

These  words  at  last  brought  the  shopman  to  his  senses, 
and  he  pushed  the  writing-box  towards  the  samurai,  who, 
lifting  off  the  lid,  took  up  a  pen  and  quietly  wrote  his 
name,  "  lijima  Heitaro,"  then  reported  the  matter  to  the 
warden  of  the  ward,  and  went  home  to  his  lord's  mansion 
at  Ushigome. 

On  his  relating  the  whole  affair  to  his  father,  lijima 
Heizaemon,  the  latter  praised  him  for  his  manly  deed  ; 
nor  was  the  young  man  specially  blamed  when  the  report 
was  sent  in  to  their  superior,  Kobayashi  Gondaiyu.  It 
all  simply  ended  by  being  so  much  the  better  for  the 
slayer,  and  so  much  the  worse  for  the  slain. 

affairs  of  the  clan  to  which  the  lijimas  belonged,  and  who  happened 
to  be  their  immediate  superior.  The  title  of  Donoj  "  Mr," 
though  still  often  used  in  writing,  is  rarely  if  ever  heard  in  actual 
speech.  • 


398  botan-d6rO,  chap.  it. 


^f  461.  DAI  NI-KWAI. 

Sate  lijima  Heitaro  Sama  wa^  0  toshi  ni-ju-ni  no 
toki  ni  waru-mono  wo  kiri-koroshite^  chitto  mo  osoreru 
keshiki  mo  nakUy  kisho  na  o  kata  de  gozaimashita 
liar  a  J — toshi  wo  toru  ni  djite,  masu-masu  chie  ga 
susumimasktte,  sono  nochi  go  shimpu  sama  ni  naku 
nararete,  go  katoku  wo  o  tsugi  asobashi,  Heizaemon 
to  na  wo  aratame,^  Suido-hatd^  no  Miyake  Sama  to 
moshimasu  o  hatamoto^  kara  okusama  ivo  0  mukae 
ni  narimashtte, — hodo  naku  go  shussho  no  6  nyoshi 
wo  O  Tsuyu  Sama  to  moshi-age,  sukohuru  yoi  go  kiryo 
dSf — go  ryoshin  wa  te  no  uchi  no  tama  no  yd  ni 
aishite,  0  sodate  ni  narimashita  gay — sono  o  ato  ni 
0  kodomo  ga  dekimasezu,  hito-tsubu-dane  no  koto  desii 
kara,  nao-sara  go  hiso  ni  nasaru  uchi,  *  koin  ni  seki- 
inori  nashi  **  de,  0  josama  wa  kotoshi  totte  ju-roku  ni 
narare,  o  ie  mo  masu-masu  go  sakan  de  gozaimashita 
ga, — *  mitsureba  kakuru  yo  no  narai  **  to  iu  tatoe  no 
tori,  okusama  wa  sukoshi  no  yamai  ga  moto  to  natte, 
tsui  ni  0  naku  nari  nasaimashita, 

Sono  nochi  kaji-muki  go  fujiyu  no  tokoro  kara,  0 
Kuni  to  iu  nochi-zoi  wo  0  mukae  ni  narimashita 
ga, — tokaku  0  josama  to  O  Kuni  to  no  aida  ga  nan 
to  naku  ori-aimasen  de,  lijima  Sama  mo  kore  wo 
mendo  ni   omoimashlte,    Yanagijima  ye   besso    wo    ko- 

1.  A  change  of  name  on  some  important  event  was  a  common 
practice  in  Old  Japan. 

2.  I.e.,  the  bank  of  the  aqueduct  in  Koishikawa,  Yedo. 


botan-d6r6,  chap.  n.  399 


CHAPTER  II. 

Now  lijima  HeitarO,  having,  at  the  age  of  two-and- 
twenty,  cut  down  a  ruffian,  and  being  an  energetic  young 
samurai  who  knew  not  what  fear  was,  grew  wiser  and 
wiser  as  he  advanced  in  years.  Later  on,  having  lost  his 
father,  he  inherited  the  patrimony  and  changed  his  name  to 
Heizaemon,  and  then  married  a  wife  from  the  family  of  a 
hatamoto  called  Miyake  residing  at  Suid6-bata.  After  a 
little  while,  there  was  born  to  them  a  daughter,  whom  they 
named  O  Tsuyu,  and  who  was  so  beautiful,  that  her 
parents  doted  on  her  as  if  they  had  held  a  jewel  in  their 
hand.  As  they  had  no  other  children  after  her,  their 
only  pet,  their  care  for  her  increased  all  the  more ;  and 
meanwhile,  there  being,  as  the  proverb  says,  no  barrier- 
keeper  to  keep  time  back,  the  young  girl  was  now  in  her 
sixteenth  year,  and  the  family  was  more  prosperous  than 
ever,  when,  as  an  exemplification  of  the  saying  that  **  in 
this  world  what  waxeth  waneth,"  some  ailment,  quite 
slight  at  first,  attacked  the  mother  and  ended  by  carrying 
her  off. 

Afterwards  lijima,  finding  that  the  household  would 
not  work  smoothly  without  a  mistress,  took  to  himself  a 
second  wife  named  O  Kuni.  But  somehow  or  other,  the 
daughter  and  O  Kuni  did  not  get  on  well  together.  This 
was  a  trouble  to  the  master  of  the  house,  who  thereupon 

3.  See  vocabulary. 

4.  Both  these  sayings  are  inherited  from  the  Book  Lan- 
guage.   Kakuru  is  equivalent  to  Colloquial  kakeru,  2nd  conj. 


400  BOTAN-DdRO,    CHAP.  II. 

shirae,  o  josama  ni  0  Yone  to  iu  jochu  wo  tsiihte, 
betsU'Zumai  wo  sashite  okimashlta  ga, — kore_  ga  lijima 
Sama  no  o  ie  no  kuzureru  hajime  de  gozaimasu. 

Sate  sono  toshi  mo  tachiy  akuru^  toshi  wa  o  josama 
wa  jU'Shlchi'Sai  ni  o  nari  asobashimashita, 

Koko  ni  kanete  lijima  Sama  ye  o  de-iri  no  isha 
ni  Yamamoto  Shijo  to  mosu  mono  ga  gozaimashite, — 
jitsu  wa  o  taiko'isha  no  o  shaberi  de^  shonin  tasiike 
no  tame  ni  saji  wo  te  ni  toranai^  to  iu  jimbutsu  de 
gozaimasu  kara, — nami  no  o  isha  7iara,  chotto  kami- 
ire  no  naka  ni  mo  gwan-yaku  ka  ko-gusuri  de  mo 
haitte  imasu  ga, — ko7io  Shijo  no  kami-ire  no  naka  ni 
wa,  tezuma  no  tane  yara,  hyaku-manako  nado  ga, 
irete  aru  gurai  na  mono  de  gozaimasu. 

Sate  kono  isha  no  chikazuki  de,  Nezu  no  Shimizu- 
dani  ni  dembata  ya  kashi-nagaya  wo  mochi,  sono 
agari  de  kurashi  wo  tatete  iru  ronin  no  Hagiwara 
Shinzaburo  io  mosu  mono  ga  arimashite,  iimare-tsuki 
kirei  na  otoko  de, — toshi  wa  ni-ju-ichi  de  gozaimasu 
ga,  mada  nyobo  mo  motazu,  goku  uchiki  de  gozaimasu 
kara,  soto  yemo  demasezu,  shomotsu  bakari  mite  orimasu 
tokoro   ye, — aru    hi  Shijo  ga   tazunete  mairimashlte, — 

Shijo  :  "  Kyo  wa,  tenki  ga  yoroshiu  gozaimasu  kara, 
Kameido  no  GwaryUbai^  ye  de-kakete,  sono  kaeri 
ni  boku  no  chikazuki  lijima  Heizaemon  no  besso  ye 
yorimasho. — *  Ie '  sa  ?  Kimi  wa  ittai  uchiki  de  iras- 
sharu  kara,  fujin  ni   o   kokoro-gake   nasaimasen  ga, — 

5.  This  is  Classical  for  akeruy  2nd  conj.,  "to  open,"  hence  *'to 
begin." 

6.  The  spoon  (with  which  medicines  are  mixed)  is  the  physician's 
special  emblem.    In  the  free  translation  we  have  used  the  phrase 


BOTAN-'DOROy   C«AP.   11.  4OX 

built  a  villa  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Yanagijima,  and 
sent  his  daughter  to  reside  there  separately,  attended  by 
a  maid  called  O  Yone.  And  this  it  was  which  was  the 
beginning  of  the  downfall  of  the  house  of  lijima. 

Well,  that  year  too  passed  by,  and  in  the  following  one 
O  Tsuyu  entered  her  seventeenth  year. 

Now  there  was  a  man  named  Yamamoto  Shijo,  who 
had  long  been  the  family  physician  of  the  lijimas.  In 
reality  he  was  a  chatter-box  and  a  quack, — one  of  those 
doctors  of  whom  it  is  said  that  they  write  no  prescriptions 
out  of  regard  for  the  welfare  of  their  patients, —  a  man 
who  carried  about  in  his  pocket-book  such  things  as  the 
wherewithal  for  conjuring  tricks,  or  else  paper  masks  for 
acting  the  mimic,  instead  of  the  pills  or  powders  of  which 
any  ordinary  physician  has  a  little  store  by  him. 

Well,  this  doctor  had  a  friend,  an  unattached  samurai 
called  Hagiwara  Shinzaburo,  who  lived  on  the  income 
derived  from  fields  and  house  property  which  he  owned 
at  Shimizu-dani  in  Nezu.  He  was  naturally  a  handsome 
man,  still  unmarried  though  already  twenty-one  years  of 
age,  and  so  shy  that  he  would  not  go  out',  but  occupied 
himself  with  nothing  but  reading. 

Shijd  came  to  call  upon  him  one  day,  and  said : 
"As  it  is  such  fine  weather  to-day,  let  us  go  and  see  the 
plum-blossoms  at  Kameido,  and,  on  our  way  back,  look 
in  at  the  villa  of  a  friend  of  mine,  lijima  Heizaemon. — 
What  ?  you  say  no  ?     You  are  altogether  so  shy,  that  you 

"  writing  prescriptions "  as  our  nearest  equivalent  to  the  Japanese 
**  taking  the  spoon  in  hand."—* 

7.  A  garden  in  Tc^kyO,  celebrated  for  the  picturesque  beauty  of  its 
fantastic  old  plum-trees. — 


409  B0TAN-]>aR6,    CHAP.   II. 

danshi  ni  totte  wa^  fujin  no  tsuki-ai  hodo  tanoshimi 
na  mono  wa  nai.  Ima  moshita  lijima  no  besso  ni 
wa,  fujin  bakari  de, — sore  wa !  sore  wa !  yohodo 
beppin  no  o  jdsama  ni  shinsetsu  na  jochU  to  tada 
futari-giri  desk  kara,  jCdan  de  mo  itte  kimasho. 
Honto  ni  jdsama  miru  dake  de  mo  kekko  na  kurai 
de, — ume  mo  yoroshii  ga,  ugoki  mo  shinai,  kuchi  mo 
kikimasen,  Fujin  wa,  kuchi  mo  kiku  ski,  ugoki  mo 
shimasu.  Tomokaku  ki-tamae/**  to  sasoi-dashimashite ^ 
futari-zure  de  Gwaryubai  ye  mairi,  kaeri  ni  lijima  no 
besso  ye   tachi-yorimashitey — 


Shijo  :  **  Go  men  kudasai  !  Makoto  ni  shibaraku  I " 
to  iu  koe  wo  kiki-tsukemashite, — 

0  Yone  :    "  Donata  sama  ?  Oya-oya  !  irasshaimasht !  " 

Shijo:  ^^  Kore  wa  I  0  Yone  San  I  Sono  nochi  wa^ 
tsui  ni  nai  go  busata  itashimashita.  O  jdsama  ni  wa 
0  kawari  mo  gozaimasen  ka  ? — Sore  wa,  sore  wa  !  kekkOj 
kekko  f  Ushigome  kara  koko  ye  o  hiki-utsuri  ni  nari- 
mashite  kara  wa,  domo  empo  na  710  de,  tsui  tsui 
go  busata  ni  narimashite,  makoto  ni   ai-sumimasen.'' 

0  Yone:  *^Md/  anata  hisashtku  o  mie  nasaimasen 
kara,  do  nasatta  ka  to  omotte,  maido  o  uwasa  wo  itashite 
orimashita.     Kyo  wa  dochira ye?'^ 

Shijo:  *^Ky6  wa  Gwaryubai  ye  Ume-mi  ni  de-kake- 
mashita  ga, — *  Ume  mireba,  hozu  ga  nai^*  to  iu  tatoe  no 
tori,  mada  mi-tarinai  no  de,  0  niwa  no  ume  wo  haiken 
itashitakute  mairimashtta,'' 

8.  Shijo  is  joking.  The  real  saying  is  Ue  mireba  hozuga  nai^  "  If 
one  looks  upwards,  there  is  no  limit,"  i.e.,  **  there  is  no  limit  to  the 
•  possibility  of  aping  one's  superiors.'* 


3otan-d6i^(5>  chap.  n.  40$ 

take  no  interest  in  ladies'  society,  whereas  there  is  no- 
thing so  pleasant  for  a  man  as  that  society.  In  the  villa 
which  I  have  just  mentioned  there  are  none  but  ladies, 
and  oh  !  dear  me  !  there  are  only  two  of  them, — a  perfect- 
ly lovely  young  girl  and  a  good-natured  maid-servant,  so 
that  we  can  have  some  fun.  The  young  lady  is  really  a 
treat  just  simply  to  look  at.  Doubtless  the  pluiri-blos- 
soms  are  beautiful  too ;  but  then  they  don't  move,  they 
can't  speak,  whereas  women  possess  both  motion  and 
speech.     Anyhow,  please  come  along  !  " 

So  saying,  he  led  him  off,  and  they  went  together  to 
see  the  plum-bossoms,  and  then,  on  the  way  home,  looked 
in  at  lijima's  villa. 

"  Excuse  me  1 "  called  out  ShijO.  "  Here  I  am  after 
all  this  long  time." 

"Who  is  it?  "  answered  O  Yone.  "Oh,  really!  pray 
come  in  I  " 

"Ah!  O  Yone!'*  cried  Shijo.  "It  is  really  an  un- 
conscionable time  since  my  last  visit.  I  hope  the  young 
lady  is  quite  well. — Well,  well !  this  is  splendid. — But 
you  do  live  so  far  off  since  you  moved  here  from  Ushi- 
gome,  that  I  have  become  quite  remiss  in  calling,  which 
is  really  too  bad  of  me." 

O  Yone  :  "  Why  !  it's  so  long  since  we  last  had  the 
pleasure  of  seeing  you,  that  we  wondered  what  had 
become  of  you,  and  have  been  constantly  talking  about 
you. — Where  have  you  been  to-day  ?  " 

Shijo :  "To  see  the  plum-blossoms  at  Kameido. 
But,  as  the  saying  is,  *  When  one  looks  at  the  plum-blos- 
soms, there  is  no  end  to  it.'  So  we  don't  yet  feel  that  we 
have  seen  enough,  and  have  come  hoping  to  get  a  sight 
of  the  plum-blossoms  in  your  garden." 


404  BOTAN-DORO,   chap.   II. 

O  Yone :  ^^  Sore  wa!  yoku  irasshaimashzta,  Mdl 
ddzo  kochira  ye  o  hairi  asobase  I "  to^ — kirido  wo  akema- 
shita  karUf  ^*  Go  men  kudasai!'*  to,  niwa-guchi  kara 
zashiki  ye  forimashifa. 

O  Yone  ^^Mdf  ip-puku  meshi-agare  !  Kyo  wa  yoku 
irasshtte  kudasaimashita.  Fudan  wa,  watakushi  to  o  jo- 
sama  hakari  desu  kara,  samishikutte  komatte  orimasu 
tokoro  de  gozaimashita,'* 

Shijo :  ^*  Kekko  na  o  sumai  desu,.  Sate,  Hagiwara 
Uji  I  Kyo  kimi  no  go  meigin  ni  osore-irimashita,^  Nan 
to  ka  moshimashUa,  ne,  e  ? 

*  Tahako  ni  wa, 

Suribi  no  untashi 
Ume  no  naka'^^ 
deshita  ka,  ni?    Kampuku,  kampuku!    Boku  no  yd  na 
ochaku-mono  wa,  deru  ku  mo  ochaku  de, 

*  Ume  homete, 

Magirakashi-keri, 
Kado-chigai'^^ 
ka,  ni  ? 

**  Kimi  no  yd  ni  shoken  bakari  shite  ite  wa,  ikemasen 
yo  !  Sakki  no  sake  no  nokori  ga  koko  ni  aru  kara,  ip-pai 
agare-yof  Nan  desu, — ni?  lya  desu  ?  Sore  de  wa,  hitori 
de  chodai  ifashimasho  "  to  ii-nagara,  hydtan  wo  dashi- 

g.  Every  Japanese  of  education  is  supposed  to  be  able  to  compose 
in  verse;  but  the  socalled  verses  here  given  are  of  course  only  ShijO's 
chaif,  invented  on  the  spur  of  the  moment.  This  particular  kind  of 
stanza  is  termed  hokkuy  and  consists  of  three  lines  of  respectively  five, 
seven,  and  five  syllables.  Japanese  prosody  knows  nothing  either  of 
rhyme  or  of  quantity. — 

10.  The  words  lit.  mean  **  As  for  tobacco  (smoking),  within  the  plum- 
trees  is  delicious  of  striking-fire,"  i.e.,  •'  How  delicious  it  is  to  light  a 


BOTAN-D0R5,    CHAP.   II.  405 

0  Yone :  **  Well,  well !  and  a  good  welcome  to  you!  Oh  ! 
please  come  in  this  way  !  " — and  so  saying,  she  opened 
the  wicket,  so  that  the  visitors,  with  a  "  By  your  leave," 
passed  through  the  garden  entrance  into  the  house. 

0  Yone :  "Oh !  please  smoke  !  It  is  exceedingly  kind 
of  you  to  have  come  to-day.  We  are  generally  very 
dull,  because  there  are  only  the  two  of  us, — my  young 
mistress  and  I.'* 

Shijo  :     **  This  is  a  splendid  house. — Well,  Mr.  Hagi- 
wara !  I  was  quite  taken  aback  by  that  beautiful  stanza 
of  yours  to-day.     What  was  it  again  ? 
*  To  the  smoker 

H^w  sweet  for  striking  a  match 
Is  the  entourage  of  the  plum-blossoms ! ' 
That  was  it,  wasn't  it?     Admirable!  admirable!    In 
the  case  of  a  villain  like  me,  the  verses  that  come  out 
of  his  mouth  are  villainous  too.     My  stanza  was : 

<  In  belauding  the  plum-blossoms 

I  got  confused, 
And  belauded  a  lovely  girl  instead.' 

1  think  that  was  it. — It  doesn't  do  to  be  always  reading 
as  you  are, — indeed  it  doesn't.  As  we  have  the  remains  of 
the  liquor  we  took  with  us  on  our  picnic,  just  have  a  glass 
of  it. — What  ?  you  say  no  ?   Well  then,  I'll  drink  alone  ;" — 

pipe  among  the  plum-blossoms!"  The  second  and  third  lines  are 
inverted.  Note  the  conclusive  form  of  the  adjective  Utnashiy  "is 
delicious,"  equivalent  to  the  more  genuinely  Colloquial  Umait  and 
conf.  p.  119. 

11.  Keri  is  a  Classical  termination  of  verbs  and  adjectives.  In  Col- 
loquial the  word  would  be  magirakashita,  Kado-chigaiy  lit.  a  "  mistake 
of  gates,"  refers  to  ShijO's  preferring  the  house  where  the  young  lady 
lives  to  the  celebrated  garden  with  the  plum-trees.  We  have  repre- 
sented this  meaning  very  freely  in  the  third  line  of  the  translation. 


4o6  botan-dOrO,  chap.  ii« 

kakeru  tokoro  ye^  O   Yone  ga  cha  to  kwashi  wo  motte 
mairimashiief 

0  Yone :  '^  Socha  de  gozaimasu  ga,  o  hitotsu  meshi- 
agate  I " 

Shi  jo :  **  Ddzo  mo  o  kamai  kudasaru-na !  Toki 
nif  kyd  wa  o  josama  ni  o  me  ni  kakaritakute 
mairimashita.  Koko  ni  iru  no  wa,  boku  no  goku 
shitashii  hoyU  desu.  Sore  wa  so  to,  kyd  wa  o  miyage 
mo  nani  mo  jisan  itashimasen^^, — E,  he,  he  I  arigato 
gozaimasu.  Kore  wa,  osore-irimashita.  O  kwashi  wa 
yokan.  Kekko !  Sd  I  Hagiwara  Kun,  meshi-agare- 
yol"  to,— 

0  Yone  ga  kibisho  ye  yu  wo  sashi  ni  itta  ato  de, 
*^  yiisu  ni  koko  no  uchi  no  o  josama  wa,  tenka  ni 
nai  bijin  desu,  Ima  ni  irassharu  kara,  goran  nasai  f " 
to  hanashi  wo  shite  orimasu  to,  muko  no  yo-jo-han 
no  ko-zashiki  de  lijima  no  o  josama,  O  Tsuyu  Sama 
ga,  hito-mezurashii  kara,  shoji  wo  sukoshi  akete  no- 
zoite  miru  to,  Shijo  no  soba  ni  suwatte  iru  Hagiwara 
Shinzaburo  no  otoko-buri  to  it,  hito-gara  to  ii^^,  *  Onna 
ni  shitara  donna  daro  P  *  to  omou  hodo  no  ii  otoko 
desu  kara,  htto-me  mimasH  to  zotto  shite,  do  shita 
kaze  no  fiiki-mawashi  de  anna  kirei  na  tonogo  ga 
koko  ye  kita  no  ka  to  omou  to,  katto  nobosete,  makka 
na  kao  ni  nari,  nan  to  naku  ma  ga  warukute,  pata 
to  shoji   wo   shime-kitte,    uchi   ye    hairimashita    ga, — 

12.  It  is  a  graceful  Japanese  custom  to  bring  a  present  with  one 
when  coming  to  pay  a  visit. — 

13.  To  ii  is  often  thus  used  in  enumerations.  It  may  be  most 
easily  parsed  as  equivalent  to  to  itte  mo,  *'  whether  saying  that." 


botan-dorO,  chap.  ir.  407 

and  with  these  words,  he  Was  just  bringing  out  his 
wine-gourd,  when  O  Yone  came  in  with  tea  and  cakes, 
saying : 

'*  It  is  poor  tea,  but  pray  take  a  cup  of  it." 

"  Please  don't  take  any  more  trouble  about  us,'*  replied 
Shijo.  "By  the  way,"  continued  he,  "we  have  come 
here  to-day  in  hopes  of  seeing  your  young  mistress. 
This  gentleman  here  is  an  extremely  intimate  friend  of 
mine. — Oh !  by  the  bye,  that  reminds  me  that  I  have 
forgotten  to  bring  you  any  present  to-day. — Oh !  thank 
you !  I  am  really  quite  overcome  by  your  kind  atten- 
tions.— The  sweetmeats  are  bean  paste. — Delicious! — 
Come  along,  Mr.  Hagiwara,  do  take  some. — Really," 
continued  he  after  O  Yone  had  gone  to  pour  some  hot 
water  into  the  tea-pot,  **  the  young  lady  of  the  house  is 
one  who  has  not  her  equal  for  beauty  in  the  world. 
She'll  be  coming  now;  sd  look  at  her." 

While  he  was  thus  speaking,  lijima's  daughter,  Miss 
O  Tsuyu,  in  the  small  four  and  a  half  mat  room  opposite, 
curious  to  see  the  rare  visitors,  had  opened  one  of  the  slid- 
ing paper  doors  a  little  and  peeped  out ;  and,  as  she  did 
so,  her  glance  fell  on  Hagiwara  Shinzaburo  seated  at  Shi- 
j6's  side, — so  manly,  so  distinguished-looking,  handsome 
to  the  pitch  of  making  one  think  what  a  beautiful  woman 
he  would  have  made.  And  she  started,  and  wondered 
what  stroke  of  fortune  had  brought  hither  so  handsome 
a  fellow.  Then,  the  blood  rushing  to  her  cheeks,  she  be- 
came scarlet,  and,  overcome  by  a  feeling  of  awkwardness, 
shut  the  paper  slide  with  a  click,  and  retired  within  it.  But, 
as  she  could  not  see  his  face  when  shut  up  in  the  room, 
she  again  gently  slid  the  door  open^  an^^ii:  while  pretending 


4jo8  botan-d6r6,  chap.  ii. 

uchi  de  wa  otoko  no  kao  ga  mirarenai  kara,  mata 
sotto  shoji  wo  aketCy  niwa  no  Ume  no  hana  wo 
nagameru  furi  wo  shi-nagara^  choi-choi  to  Hagiwara 
no  kao  wo  mite  wa,  hazukashiso  ni  shoji  no  uchi  ye 
hairu  ka  to  omou  to^  mata  dete  kuru.  Detari  hik- 
kondart,  hikkondari  detari,  moji-moji  shite  iru  no  wo 
Shijo  ga  mi'tsukemashite, 

Shijo :  *^  Hagiwara  Kun  !  Kimi  wo  josama  ga  sakki 
kara  tsuku-tsuku  mite  imasii,  yo  !  Ume  no  hana  wo  miru 
furi  wo  shite  ite  mo,  me  no  tama  wa  maru  de  kotchi  wo 
mite  iru,  yo  /  Kyo  wa,  tonto  kimi  ni  kerareta,  nef — to 
uwasa  wo  shite  iru  tokoro  ye, 


Gejo  no  O  Yone  ga  dete  mairimashite:  "0 
josama  kara  ^  Nani  mo  gozaimasen  ga,  hon  no  inaka- 
ryori  de  ik-kon  sashi-agemasu,  Dozo  go  yururi  to 
meshi-agarimashite,  ai-kawarazu  anata  no  go  jodan 
wo    ukagaitai  *    to    osshaimasu.'' 


Shijo  :  "  Domo  /  osore-irimashita,  Kore  wa,  kore  wa  f 
o  suimono  /  kekko  !  arigato  gozaimasu.  Sakki  kara  rei- 
shu  wa  motte  orimasu  ga,  o  kanshu  wa  mata  kakubetsu. 
Arigato  gozaimasu,  Dozo  o  josama  ni  mo  irassharu yd 
ni.  Kyo  wa  ume  ja  nai,  jfitsu  wa,  o  josama  wo... 
lya  f  nani  ?  '* 


botan<-d5r6,  chap.  II.  409 

to  gaze  at  the  plum-blossoms  in  the  garden,  cast  sly 
glances  from  time  to  time  at  Hagiwara's  face.  Then 
again,  apparently  overcome  with  bashfulness,  she 
withdrew  within  the  sliding  door,  but  had  hardly  done  so 
when  again  her  face  popped  out.  And  so  she  went  on 
fidgeting, — out  and  in,  in  and  out,  which  Shij6  perceiving 
said : 

"  Mr.  Hagiwara !  I  say !  the  young  lady  has  been 
staring  at  you  all  the  time.  She  may  pretend  to  be 
looking  at  the  plum-blossoms  ;  but,  for  all  that,  her  eyes 
are  turned  completely  in  this  direction, — indeed  they  are. 
To-day  I  have  been  quite  thrown  into  the  shade  by 
you,  eh  ? " 

While  he  was  thus  chattering  away,  the  maid  O  Yone 
came  into  the  room  and  said : 

**  My  young  mistress  bids  me  say  that,  though  she 
has  nothing  worthy  your  acceptance,  she  begs  you  to 
take  a  glass  of  wine  accompanied  by  a  snack  of  our 
poor  rustic  fare.  She  hopes  you  will  take  your  own 
time  over  it,  and  give  her  the  benefit  of  your  amusing 
conversation,  as  on  previous  occasions.** 

**  Really,**  replied  Shijo,  "  I  am  confounded  by  so 
much  civility.  Dear  me !  dear  me !  Here  is  soup ! 
Delicious !  Thank  you !  Cold  liquor  we  already  had 
with  us ;  but  this  hot  wine  of  yours  is  quite  a  special 
treat.  Many  thanks !  Please  ask  your  young  mistress 
if  she  too  won*t  favour  us  with  her  company.  It  was 
not  for  the   plum-blossoms  that  we   came   to-day.     In 

reality  it  was  the  young  lady  whom Why!  what  is 

the  matter?'* 


4tO  BOTAK-D5]tO,    CHAP.   H. 

O  Yone :  "  Ho*ho'ho  i — Tadaima  say 6  rndski-age- 
mashita  ga,  o  tsure  no  o  kata  wo  go  zonji  ga  nai  mono 
desu  karay  ^Ma  ga  warui'  to  osshaitnasU  kara, — *Sow- 
nara,  o  yoshi  asohase  !  *  to  moshi-agemasu  to, — *  Sore  de 
mo,  itte  mitai  *  to  osshaimasH  no  T'^^ 

Shijd :  "lyaf  kore  wa  boku  no  shin  no  chikazuki 
de,  chikuba  no  tomo  to  moshite  mo  yoroshii  kurai 
na  mono  de,  go  enryo  ni  wa  oyobimasen.  Dozo  chotto 
josama  ni  o  me  ni  kakaritakute  mairimashtta "  to  iu 
to, — 0  Yone  wa  yagate  o  josama  wo  tsurete  mairimasu 
to, — 0  josama  wa  hazukashiso  ni  O  Yone  no  ushiro  ni 
suwatte,  kuchi  no  uchi  de  *^Shij6  San!  irasshaimashi /** 
to  itta-giri  de, — O  Yone  ga  kochira  ye  kureba,  kochira 
ye  iki ;  achira  ye  ikeba,  achira  ye  iki ;  shijU  O  Yone 
no  ushiro  ni  bakar.i  kuttsuite  orimasu  to, — 


Shijo:  *^Kore  wa!  kore  wa!  josama!  Sono  nochi 
wa,  zonji-nagara  go  busata  itashimashita.  Itsu  mo  o 
kawari  mo  gozaimasen  de,  kekko  de  gozaimasu.  Kono 
hlto  wa,  boku  no  chikazuki  de,  Hagiwara  Shinzaburo 
to  moshimasu.  Dokushin-mono  de  gozaimasu.  Kyo 
wa  hakarazu  tsuremashite,  go  chiso  ni  nari,  osore- 
irimasU.  Chotto  o  chikazuki  no  tawie,  o  sakazuki 
wo  chodai  itasasemasho. — Oya !  nan  da  ka  ?  Kore  de 
wa,  go  konrei  no  sakazuki  no  yd  de  gozaimasu  '**' — to^ 
sukoshi  mo  togire  naku  tori-maki  wo  itashite 
orimasu  to,—o  josama  wa,  hazukashii  ga,  mata 
ureshik&te,     Hagiwara     Shinzaburd     wo    yokome     de 

14.  Notice  the  force  of  this  final  particle  no,  half  exclamatory,  half 
expressive  of  helplessness  to  deal  with  the  situation.  See  p.  76,  If  113. 

15.  5a^^-drinking  is  a  notable  feature  of  a  Japanese  wedding. 


boxan-d0r6,  chap.  II.  411 

O  Yone  (laughing):  '*  I  told  her  so  just  now;  but  she 
said  she  felt  it  awkward,  because  she  doesn't  know  the 
gentleman  whom  you  have  brought  with  you.  But  when 
I  thereupon  said  *  Then  refuse  to  see  him,'  she  said  *  But 
I  do  want  to  see  him  all  the  same.' " 

Shijo :  "  Nay !  nay !  there  is  no  reason  for  her  to  feel 
shy.  This  gentleman  is  a  most  intimate  friend  of  mine. 
It  would  hardly  be  too  much  to  say  that  we  played 
about  as  children  together ;  and  we  have  come  with  the 
most  earnest  desire  to  see  her  just  for  a  minute  or  two." 

After  this  speech  of  ShijO's,  O  Ypne  led  in  her  young 
mistress,  who  was  however  evidently  so  bashful  that, 
after  whispering  a  welcome  to  Shijo  from  the  place 
where  she  sat  behind  O  Yone,  she  said  no  more,  but 
constantly  stuck  close  behind  O  Yone,  edging  hither 
when  O  Yone  came  hither,  and  edging  thither  when 
O  Yone  went  thither. 

"  Well !  well !  Miss  O  Tsuyu  !"  cried  Shijo,  *'  I  know 
that  I  have  been  an  unconscionable  time  in  coming  to  see 
you.  It  is  delightful  to  find  you  in  the  same  excellent 
health  as  ever.  This  gentleman  is  my  friend,  Hagiwara 
Shinzaburo.  He  is  a  bachelor.  Happening  to  bring  him 
with  me  to-day,  we  have  been  hospitably  feasted,  and 
are  overcome  with  gratitude.  Let  me  offer  you  the  wine- 
cup,  just  to  drink  to  the  making  of  a  new  acquaintance. — 
Ha !  ha  !  ha  !  what  is  this  ?  At  this  rate,  it  looks  as  if 
we  were  celebrating  a  wedding !  " 

And  as  he  thus  went  on  ceaselessly  keeping  the  ball 
rolling,  the  young  lady,  though  bashful,  was  glad  too, 
and,  while  pretending  not  to  look  at  Hagiwara  Shin- 
zaburC,  was  casting  furtive  side-glances  at  him  ;  and,  as  an 
illustration  of  the  saying  that  *  when  the  intention  is  there, 


412  botan-dOrO,  chap.  II. 

jiro'jiro  minai  furi  wo  shi-nagara  mite  orimasu  to, — 
* ki  ga  areba^  me  mo  kuchi  hodo  ni  mono  wo  iu' 
to  iu  tatoe  no  tori,  Shinzahuro  mo  josama  no  yoi 
kiryo  ni  mi-torete,  muchu  ni  natte  orimasu.  So  ko 
sum  uchi  ni,  yukei  ni  narimashita  kara, 

Shinzahuro  :  **  Kore  wa  hajimete  ukagaimashite,  haka- 
razu  go  chiso  ni  narimashita.     Mo  o  itoma  itashimasu'' 

O  Yone :  **  Anata  !  mada  o  hay 6  gozaimasu.  Mo  sotto 
go  yururi  asobashimase  " — to,  o  josama  no  kokoro-arige 
na  yosu  wo  sasshi,  iro-iro  to  todomete  orimasu  to,  Shin- 
zahuro mo,  kokoro  no  uchi  wa  omoi  wo  kakete  orimasu 
ga,  mada  seken  naremasen  yue,  moji-moji  shite : 


^^Arigato  zonjimasu.  Shtkashi  yo  ni  irimasu  to,  taku 
no  mono  mo  anjimasu  yue,  mata  kasanete  ukagaimasn  " 
to,  kotoha  wo  nokoshite,  tachi-kakemashita  kara, 


Shijo  :  "  Sayonara^^,  o  itoma  moshimasU.  Kyo  wa  iro- 
iro  go  -chiso  ni  narimashite,  arigato  gozaimasu.  Izure 
kinjitsu,  o  rei  kata-gata,  o  ukagai  moshimasil. — Sd! 
Hagiwara  Kun,  o  tomo  itashimasho  "  to,—jihun  wa  katte 
narete  orimasu  kara,  O  Yone  to  jodan  ii-nagara,  genkwa 
no  ho  ye  mairimasu  to, 

O  Yone:  *^ Shijo  San!  Anata  no  o  tsumuri  ga  taiso 
pika-pika  to  hikatte  mairimashita  yo  !  " 

Shijo :     **  Nani   sa  I  Sore   wa,   akari  de  miru   kara, 

16.  Here  used  half  in  its  original  and  proper  sense  of  **  if  that 
is  so,"  half  in  its  newer  sense  of  "  goodbye.'* — 


botan-dOro,  chap.  II.  413 

the  eyes  can  say  as  much  as  the  mouth,'  Shinzaburo  too, 
captivated  by  the  girl's  beauty,  felt  as  if  he  were  in  a 
dream. 

Well,  what  with  one  thing  and  another,  the  evening 
was  drawing  in.     So  ShinzaburO  said  : 

"  Many  thanks  for  your  kind  hospitality  on  this  my 
first  visit.     I  think  I  must  now  be  taking  my  leave." 

"  Oh  !  "  cried  O  Yone,  who  had  guessed  her  young  mis- 
tress's tender  passion,  and  who  therefore  did  her  best  to 
detain  the  young  man,  **  it  is  still  early.  Please  don't 
be  in  such  a  hurry." 

ShinzaburO,  too,  in  his  heart  of  hearts,  was  in  love  ; 
but,  as  he  was  still  ignorant  of  the  world,  he  was  embar- 
rassed and  said : 

**  Many  thanks.  But  when  it  gets  dark,  my  people 
will  become  anxious  about  me ;  so  I  will  call  again 
another  day  instead." 

With  these  parting  words,  he  made  to  go.  So  Shij5 
said  : 

**Well  then,  we  will  take  our  leave.  Many  thanks 
for  all  your  kind  hospitality  to  us  to-day.  We  will  cer- 
tainly come  in  a  few  days  to  call  and  thank  you. — Come 
along,  Mr.  Hagiwara !  let  us  go  !  " 

And  with  these  words,  knowing,  as  he  did,  his  way 
about  the  house,  he  went  in  the  direction  of  the  entrance 
joking  with  O  Yone  all  the  while. 

"  Mr.  Shij6,"  said  O  Yone,  **  your  head  has  become 
perfectly  shining." 

"  Nonsense ! "  retorted  Shijo,  "  you  only  think  it 
shines,  because  you  are  looking  at  it  in  under  the 
light,--ha  !  ha  !  " 


414  B0TAM-DCR6y   CHAP.   II« 

hikaru  no  desu  wa,  nef**  to,—futari  wa  ki  wo  kikashiy 
o  jdsama  to  Shinzaburo  wo  ato  ni  nokoshi^  jodan- 
majiri  ni  iro-iro  no  hanashi  wo  shi-nagaruy  saki  ye 
mairimashita. 

Ato  ni  Shinzahuro  wa  o  jdsama  ni  okurare-nagaray  hito- 
me  no  nai  no  wo  saiwai  ni^  hazukashisa  wo  koraete,  kogoe 
de  nani  ka  kuchi-yakusoku  wo  itashimashita  kara,  O 
Tsuyu  Santa  wa  hazukashiso  ni : 

**  Anata  f  Sore  de  wa,  mata  kitto  0  ide  kudasaremashi  ! 
Kite  kudasajranakereha,  watashi  wa  shinde  shimaimasu 
yo!''  to, — muryo  no  jo  wo  fukunde,  omoi-kitte  moski- 
tnashita. 

0  Yone  :  "  Sayonara  I  konnichi  wa  makoto  ni  o  soso 
sama.  Sayonara  I "  to, — Shijo  Shinzahuro  no  ryo-nin  wa, 
uchi'tsuredatte  kaerimashita. 

Sono  nochi  Shinzaburo  wa,  0  josan  no  kotoba  ga  mimi 
ni  nokori,  shibashi  mo  wasureru  hima  wa  arima- 
senanda. 


B0TAN-D6Rd,    CHAP.  II.  415 

Thus  did  these  two  display  their  tact  as  they  walked  on 
towards  the  entrance,  talking  and  joking  about  all  sorts 
of  subjects,  and  leaving  the  young  lady  of  the  house  and 
Shinzaburo  behind.  Shinzaburo,  to  whom  the  young 
lady  showed  the  way,  was  only  too  glad  to  find  that  no 
one  was  by  to  see.  §0,  overcoming  his  shyness,  he 
whispered  some  vow  into  O  Tsuyu's  ear,  thereby  making 
her  look  bashful  and  answer : 

**  Oh !  then,  do  please  come  again!  If  you  don't  come, 
I  shall  die, — indeed  I  shall.**  In  this  decided  manner 
did  she  speak,  with  infinite  love  in  her  words. 

"  Goodbye !  "  cried  O  Yone.  "  Pray  excuse  the 
poorness  of  our  entertainment  to-day.  Goodbye  !  " — and 
thereupon  Shijo  and  Shinzaburo  went  off  together. 

From  that  day  forward  the  young  girl's  words  remained 
in  Shinzabur6's  ears,  and  he  never  forgot  them  even  for 
a  moment. 


f  462.  N  A  Z  E?' 

Eigo  no  why,  sunawachi  naze  to  iu  koto  wa,  ha- 
nahada  taisetsu  de  aru  no  ni,  Shina  ya  Nihon  no 
mukashi  no  hlto-hito  wa  metta  ni  kono  kotoha  wo 
tsukawazu^f  ^^ Koshi  no  setsu  da**  to  ka,  ^* Mdshi  no 
jiron  da "  to  ka  iu  toki  wa,  mohaya  betsu  ni  sono 
rikutsu  wo  sensaku  suru  koto  mo  naku,  tada  gaten 
shite  shimau  no  ga  tsUrei  de  ari ;  soko  de  motte, 
"  Utagai  wa  bummei  shimpo  no  ichi  dai  gen-in  da " 
to  iu  ron  mo  dekita  wake  de,  ima  wa  yaya  mo 
sureba  Seiyo-jin  wa  "  Utagai  wa  taisetsu  na  mono  da; 
bummei  shimpo  no  gen-in  da,  Sono  shoko  ni  wa, 
Shina-jin  ya  Nihon-jin  wa,  mono-goto  wo  utagau 
to  iu  koto  wo  shinai  ni  yotte,-  itsu  made  tatte  mo 
shimpo  shinai  de  wa  nai  ka?**  to  ronji-tateru  koto 
de  aru  ga, — ko  iu  rei  nado  ni  hikareru  to  iu  wa, 
o  tagai  sama  ni*  amari  zotto  itasan  shidai  to  iwana- 
kereba  narimasen, 

Utagai  to  wa,  tori  mo  naosazu  naze  to  iu  kotoba  no 
hitsuyo  ni  natte  kuru  gen-in  de, — tatoeba,  kodomo  no 
Jibuti,  "  Uso  wo  itte  wa,  ikenai  yo  /  "  to  obdsan  nado  ni 

I.  This  piece  is  a  leading  article  taken,  with  a  few  slight  changes 
needed  to  render  it  genuinely  Colloquial,  from  a  recent  issue  of  one 
of  the  cheaper  T5ky0  newspapers,  the  Kaishin  Shimbutif  which 
adopts  a  semi-Colloquial  phraseology  in  order  to  reach  the  masses. 
The  European  reader  may  perhaps  not  think  much  of  the  style  and 
of  the  logic  of  the  Japanese  journalist.  But  the  article  is  afair 
sample  of  the  thoughts  which  agitate  the  minds  of  the  semi-educated 


WHY? 

What  is  termed  why  in  English  and  naze  in  our  lan- 
guage, is  a  very  important  thing.  Nevertheless  the 
Chinese  and  Japanese  of  olden  times  hardly  ever  used 
the  word.  When  told  perhaps  that  such  and  such  was 
the  doctrine  of  Confucius  or  the  opinion  advocated  by 
Mencius,  they  habitually  acquiesced  without  further  en- 
quiry into  the  rights  of  the  question.  Now,  therefore, 
when  the  theory  has  arisen  that  doubt  is  one  of  the  great- 
est sources  of  enlightenment  and  progress,  and  when  con- 
sequently Europeans  are  apt  to  assert  the  importance  of 
doubt  and  its  services  to  the  cause  of  civilisation,  and 
to  prove  this  their  assertion  by  pointing  to  the  Chinese 
and  Japanese  as  instances  of  nations  forever  un progressive, 
owing  to  their  neglect  to  subject  all  things  to  the  scrutiny 
of  doubt, — when  we  hear  such  opinions  ventilated  and 
find  ourselves  quoted  in  such  a  connection,  we  all  must 
agree  that  it  is  by  no  means  a  pleasant  state  of  affairs. 

It  is  exactly  this  thing  called  doubt  that  causes  the 
word  why  to  become  an  indispensable  one.  Take  a  child, 
for  instance.      Probably   its  grandmother  or  somebody 

Japanese  of  the  present  day,  and  of  the  manner  in  which  they  express 
those  thoughts. 

2.  The  word  naze  is  little  used  even  now,  except  in  anger.  The 
circumlocution  do  iu  tmke  de  ?  "for  what  reason  ?  "  is  generally  pre- 
ferred. 

-3.  O  tagai  sama  nit  ** mutually,"  "for  you  and  me,"  the  honorific 
o  giving  a  half-polite,  half-comical  tinge  to  the  expression. 


4l8  NAZE  ? 

ii'kikasareru  de  aro.  Sono  toki  ni,  "  Naze  uso  wo  itte 
wa,  warui  no  de  gozaimasu  ka  ?  "  to  utagai  wo  ii-dashtte 
goranjiro  / — "  Naze  datte  /*  Sonna  kotoha  wo  kaesu  mono 
de  wa  arimasen.^  Ningen  wa^  uso  wo  itte  iva,  warui 
mono  ni  kimatte  orimasu  "  to  atama-kabuse^  ni  ii-tsuke- 
rareru  ga  tsurei  de  aro. 

Naruhodo!  ningen  wa,  uso  wo  itte  wa,  warui  ni 
kimatte  oru  ni  chigai  nai  ga, — sono  warui  rikutsu"^ 
wo  shitte  gaten  suru  no  to,  tada  bon-yari  to  gaten 
suru  no  to  de  wa,  onaji  gaten  suru  no  de  mo, 
gaten  no  wake  ga  taiso  chigau  de  aro  to  zonji- 
masu.  Naze  ni  kuni  ni  wa  seifu  to  iu  mono  ga 
.  aru  no  ka?  Naze  ni  jimmin  wa  sozei  wo  osameru 
.  monot  ka?  Mazu  utagai  wo  okoshite,  sono  rikutsu 
wo  sensaku  shite  koso,  hajimete  jiyu-seido-ron  mo 
okotte  kuru  to  iu  mono  de,—^tada  rikutsu  nashi  ni, 
^^Kuni  ni  wa  seifu  ga  aru  mono^,  jimmin  wa  sozei  wo 
osameru  mono^ "  to  gaten  shite  ite  wa,  shidai  ni  hiku- 
tsu  ni  naru  bakari  de,  kesshite  shimpo  suru  koto  wa 
arimasen. 

Naze  no  hitsuyo  na  no  wa,  hitori  dotoku  ya  seiji 
nomi  ni  kagirazu,  sono  ta,  sekai  ni  arayuru^  mono- 
goto  ni  wa,  donna  sasai  no  ten  ni  itaru  made  mo, 
subete  hitsuyo  na  koto  de, — yoku  seken  no  hlto-bito 
ga  .  **  Gakumon  ga  .  taisetsu  da,  taisetsu  da "  to  iu 
ga, — tsumari  nan  no  gakumon  mo,  utagai  wo  moto  ni 

4.  Datte  is  from  da  to  itte,  *'  saying  that ; "  but  it  has  become  a  sort 
of  interjection. — 

5.  De  wa  arimasen  is  occasionally  thus  used  in  the  sense  of  "  must 
not." — 

6.  Atamakabuse  m  =  "with  a  snub.'*  The  kindred  expression 
"atama  kara  kogoto  wo  iu  is  a  common  phrase  for   "unreasonable 


WHY?  419 

says  to  it :  *«  Mind  you  mustn't  tell  stories !  '*  Then  let 
the  following  doubt  be  expressed  in  reply:  "Why  it  is 
wrong  to  tell  stories?"  and  it  will  generally  happen 
that  the  enquirer  will  be  snubbed  with  a  "  *  Why  ?'  indeed  1 
None  of  your  pert  retorts  for  me !  Every  one  agrees  that 
it  is  wrong  for  people  to  tell  stories/' 

Yes,  indeed  !  no  doubt  every  one  agrees  that  it  is  wrong 
to  tell  stories ;  and  to  acquiesce  in  this  principle  with  a 
knowledge  of  the  reasons  why  story-telling  is  wrong,  or 
to  acquiesce  in  it  unintelligently  is  equally  to  acquiesce. 
But  surely  there  is  a  great  difference  between  the  two 
modes  of  acquiescence.  Why  is  it  that  there  is  what  is 
termed  a  government  in  the  country  ?  Why  do  the  people 
have  to  pay  taxes  ?  It  is  only  by  raising  such  questions 
and  searching  for  reasons,  that  liberal  political  opinions 
get  started.  When  people  simply  go  on  unreasoningly 
accepting  as  ultimate  facts  the  existence  of  government 
and  the  obligation  to  pay  the  taxes,  they  merely  sink 
deeper  and  deeper  into  servility,  and  never  make  any 
progress. 

Doubt  is  indispensable,  not  in  morals  and  in  politics 
only.  It  is  indispensable  in  other  things  also,  in  every 
single  thing  in  the  wcrld,  down  to  the  very  smallest. 
People  often  say  and  repeat  that  learning  is  important. 
But  after  all,  in  no  branch  of  learning  is  there  any  fruitful 
course  to  be  pursued,  unless  we  make  doubt  the  founda- 

scolding." — 

7.  Warui  rikuisu  does  not  mean  *•  a  bad  reason,"  but  "the  reason 
why  it  is  bad ;  "  conf.  p.  57. 

8.  Supply  dttj  •♦  it  is  (a  fact  that  there  is  a  government,  etc.)." — 
g.  Arayuru  is  an  exceptional  verbal  form  derived  from  rtr«,  "  to 

be,"  and  meaning  "  all  that  there  are."— 


420  NAZE  ? 

skiy  naze  naze  de  motte  oht  no  oku  made  rikutsu 
wo  sensaku  suru  to  iu  koto  ni  hoka  wa  nai,  Shi- 
sho  Go'kyo^  ni  kaite  aru  mono -goto  ni  kesshite  ma- 
chigai  wa  nai  to,  tada  rikutsu  nashi  ni  gaten  shite 
shimatte  ita^^  hi  ni  wa,  yo  no  naka  wa  Shi-sho 
Go'kyo  inai  no  yo  no  naka  de  owaru  no  de,  itsu 
made  tatte  mo  susumu  kizukai  wa  nai  ga, — mottomo 
"  Sore  dake  de  takusan  da''  to  iu  ki  naraba,  suman 
koto  mo  arumai  keredomo,  naze  wo  mochiite,  rikutsu 
wo  sensaku  shlta^^  hi  ni  wa,  rikutsu  kara  rikutsu  to, 
shidai  ni  rikutsu  ni  hana  ga  saki,  mi  ga  nari, 
kwairaku  no  shurui  ga  oku  mo  okiku  mo  naru  to 
wakari-kitte  iru  to  shite  mireba^^,  naze  wa  mochiite 
mitai  mono  de  wa  nai  ka  ? 

Ningen  ga  hikutsu  no  kyokutan  ni  tasshireba,  zui- 
bun  omoi  mo  yoran  fuzoku  nado  ga  shojiru  mono 
de, — mugaku  no  kyokutan,  sunawachi  mono-goto  no 
rikutsu  wo  shiran  to  iu  koto  no  kyokutan  mo,  zuibun 
myo  na  mono  de, — ju-ku-seiki  no  konnichi  de  mo, 
yaban  no  shakwai  ni  iri-konde  miru  to,  ki-o  no 
senzo  no  koto  ya,  mirai  no  shison  no  koto  nado 
wa,  sukoshi  mo  omowazu ;  tada  ichi-dai-kiri  ni  o- 
waru  to  iu  yd  na  jinshu  ga  naka  ni  wa  ari- 
masii,  Ina  /**  ki-o  no  senzo  ya  mirai  no  shison 
wa,   iu   made   mo   nashi,       Hanahadashii   no   ni   natte 

10.  Shi'sho  GokyOf  "the  Four  Books  and  the  Five  Canons," 
is  the  name  given  to  the  sacied  Classics  of  China,  which  form  the 
basis  of  the  Chinese  polity  and  of  the  Confucian  morality. — 

11.  Substitute  the  present  tense  j>«,  "  to  be,"  for  the  past  ita  in  order 
to  understand  this  passage.  Strange  as  it  may  appear,  Japanese  idiom 
always  employs  the  past  in  such  contexts;  conf.  p.  171,  IF  275. — 


WHy?  421 

tion,  and,  with  a  perpetual  why^  search  for  reasons  into 
every  nook  and  corner  of  the  subject.  So  long  as  folks 
simply  acquiesce,  without  reasoning,  in  the  infallibility  of 
every  word  that  stands  written  in  the  Chinese  Classics, 
the  world  will  remain  a  Chinese  Classic  world,  without 
a  chance  of  progressing,  however  many  centuries  may 
roll  by.  Of  course,  too,  it  may  be  quite  possible  for  those 
to  exist  thus,  whose  spirit  is  satisfied  with  such  a  state  of 
things.  But  when  people  have  once  come  to  a  clear  under- 
standing of  how,  if  they  use  the  word  why  and  search  for 
reasons,  they  will  go  on  from  reason  to  reason,  so  that 
the  reasons  will  first,  bear  blossoms  and  then  fruit,  and 
that  more  numerous  and  more  intense  kinds  of  happiness 
will  be  attained  to,  will  not  why  then  become  a  thing 
which  they  will  like  to  try  their  hand  at  using? 

When  human  beings  reach  the  ne  plus  ultra  of  ser- 
vility, somewhat  unexpected  manners  and  customs  are 
the  result.  Somewhat  strange,  too,  are  the  results  of 
the  ne  plus  ultra  of  ignorance, — in  other  words  of  a  lack 
of  knowledge  of  the  reasons  of  things.  Penetrate  into 
savage  societies  at  this  very  day,  in  this  nineteenth  cen- 
tury of  ours,  and  you  will  find  among  them  races  that 
show  an  utter  disregard  both  for  departed  ancestors  and 
for  unborn  descendants, — races  that  live  for  their 
own  generation  only.  Nay!  what  need  to  talk  of  de- 
parted  ancestors  and  of  unborn   descendants  ?      Why  ! 

12.  Similar  remark  to  the  preceding :  substitute  the  present  suru 
for  the  past  shita  in  order  to  understand  the  clause. — 

13.  To  shite  mireba=da  ni  yotte^  "  in  consequence  of 
which." — 

14.  A  classical  word  for  "nay,"  used  emphatically  by  contem- 
porary writers  in  imitation  of  English  idiom. — 


422  NA2B  ? 

wa,  genzai  no  oya-ko  kyddai  no  aida-gara  ni  sukoski 
mo  kwankei  wo  tsuketCy  shin-ai  sum  no,  nan  no,^^  to 
iu  yd  na  koto  mo  naku,  tada  jibun  is-shin  ga  do  ni 
ka  ko  ni  ka  romei  wo  tsunagu  koto  ga  dekirebuy 
sore  de  manzoku  shite  iru  to  iu  jinshu  mo  ma^^  ni 
wa  arimasH, 

Shokun  !  inu  wo  mi-tamaey — inu  wo^^  IE/  Ikaga  de 
'  gozaru?  Oya-ko-rashiku  omowareru  wa,  chichi  wo 
nomu  aida,  wazuka  bakari  no  koto  de, — chi-banare 
wo  suru  to,  mohaya  tanin, — otto  /'*  mattaku  taken^^ 
ni  natte  shimau  de  wa  nai  ka  ?  Shikaraba,  ima  iu 
tokoro  no  yaban-jinshu  no  gotoki  wa,  iwayuru^^  **  Kin- 
ju  wo  saru  koto  tokarazu^^"  no  renju  de  aro,  Oya- 
ko  kyddai  yori  shite,  shidai  ni  shin-ai  wo  rinjin  ni 
oyoboshi,  ichi-gun  ni  oyoboshi,  is-shu  ni  oyobosu  no 
ga  aikokushin  no  genso  da  keredomo, — genzai  no 
oya-ko  de  sae  betsu  ni  shin-ai  sen  to  iu  yd  de 
wa,  totemo  aikokushin  nado  no  ard  hazu  wa  nai. 

Shikashi  Nihonjin  nado  wa,  shi-awase  to  sore 
hodo  mugaku  de  mo  naku ;  shitagatte  sdd  ni  aikoku- 
shin mo  aru  «'  da  ga, — sude  ni  aikokushin  ga 
aru    naraba,    kano    naze    wa   iyo-iyo   hitsuyd  ni   natte 

15.  For  no  thus  used  enumeratively  or  to  indicate  a  sort  of  pause, 
see  IT  115,  pp.  77-8.  Shin-ai  sum  no,  nan  no  is,  as  literally  as  pos- 
sible, **  loving  or  anything  (else)-ing." 

16.  Ma  ni  wa=itama  ni  wa  or  naka  ni  wa,  "among  the  rest.*' 
Ma  originally  meant  **  space,*'  "  room.*' — 

17.  The  emphatic  repetition  of  the  accusative  after  the  verb  is 
rather  common,  especially  in  the  mouths  of  the  lower  classes. — 

18.  Otto  is  an  interjection,  which  we  have  very  freely  rendered  by 
*'  excuse  me." 


WHY.?  423 

there  are  among  the  number,  when  you  get  to  the  very 
lowest  of  them,  races  of  men  who  pay  not  the  slightest 
heed  to  the  ties  of  kindred,  who  show  no  trace  of  family 
affection  or  of  anything  of  that  sort,  but  who  are  quite 
contented  if,  by  hook  or  by  crook,  they  can,  each  on  his 
own  account,  scrape  together  a  livelihood. 

Gentlemen  !  just  look  at  the  way  dogs  live.  What  is 
it  like,  let  rne  ask  ?  Is  it  not  true  that  the  fondness  be- 
tween the  parent  and  her  young  endures  but  for  a  brief 
season,  while  the  puppies  are  sucking  ?  Wean  them, 
and  at  once  they  become  strangers, — excuse  me,  strange- 
curs, — to  one  another.  This  being  so,  I  take  it  that 
such  creatures  as  the  savage  races  just  referred  to  belong 
to  the  category  described  as  **  not  far  removed  from  the 
birds  and  beasts."  To  begin  by  parental,  filial,  and  frater- 
nal love,  gradually  to  extend  such  kindly  feelings  to 
neighbours,  then  to  all  the  people  of  a  district,  and  next  to 
those  of  a  province  is  the  origin  of  patriotism.  But  there 
can  never  be  any  such  thing  as  patriotism  in  the  absence 
of  even  the  love  between  living  parents  and  children. 

However,  we  Japanese  are  fortunately  not  so  ignorant 
as  all  that,  and  accordingly  we  have  a  fair  share  of  the 
patriotic  spirit.  But  having  this  patriotic  spirit,  the  why 
of  which  I  have  spoken  becomes  all  the  more  indispens- 

ig.  Tanin  and  taken,  lit.  "other  person"  (or  "stranger")  and 
**  other  dog,"  make  a  sort  of  pun,  which  we  have  endeavoured  to 
render  in  the  English  version  by  "  strangers  "  and  "  strangecurs  "(!) — 

20.  An  exceptional  verbal  form  meaning  "what  is  called," 
and  derived  from  itt,  "to  say,"  like  arayuru  from  aru  (see  foot 
note  9,  p.  419)-— 

21.  This  quotation  is  in  the  Written  Language,  where  tvkarazu 
is  the  "  negative  conclusive  present"  of  the  adjective  tdi^  "far,"  and 
is  equivalent  to  the  Colloquial  toku  nai. — 


424  NAZE  ? 

kuru  shidai  de, — Shi-sho  Go-kyo  wo  rikutsu  nashi 
ni  gaten  shite,  Shi-sho  Gokyo  inai  no  yo  no  naka 
de  owaro  to  omotte  mo,  kochira  wa  kore  de  tnanzoku 
shite  mo,  0-Bei  shoshu  wa  manzoku  sezu ;  shidai 
ni  naze  wo  mochiite,  shin-kwairaku  wo  shojiru  to 
surehd^^,  yusho-reppai  shizen  no  ikioi  de,  betsu  ni 
0-Bei'jin  ni  Nihon  wo  horoboso  to  iu  kokorozashi 
nashi  to  sum  mo,  hitori-de  ni  horobite  shimau  kara^ 
shiyo  ga  nai.  Nihon  bakari,  hoka  ni  kuni  wa  nai 
to  iu  koto  naraba,* go  chumon-dori^^  Shi-sho  Go-kyo 
inai  no  yo  no  naka  de  itsu  made  mo  irareru  keredomo, 
hoka  ni  kuni  ga  takusan  atte  wa,  so  wa  ikazu; 
mendo-kmakeredomo,  naze  wo  mochiite,  mono-goto  no 
sensaku  wo  seneba  narimasett. 

22.  To  sureha,=.''  if  it  should  come  to  pass  that." 

23.  Go  chumon-doriy  lit.  "  according  to  (your)  august  orders,"  here 
used  half-jokingly  in  the  sense  of  "  if  you  please."    This  half-polite 


WHY  ?  425 

able.  Even  should  we,  acquiescing  unreasoningly  in 
the  dicta  of  the  Chinese  Classics,  think  to  live  on  in  a 
Chinese  Classic  world,  the  satisfaction  with  such  a  state 
of  things  would  be  for  ourselves  alone.  None  of  the 
nations  of  Europe  and  America  will  be  satisfied  with  it. 
They  will  go  on  using  the  word  why,  they  will  go  on 
inventing  new  sources  of  happiness.  This  granted,  there 
will  be  no  help  for  it  but  that  Japan  must  perish  natural- 
ly, without  the  necessity  for  assuming  any  special  inten- 
tion on  the  part  of  foreign  nations  to  destroy  her,  but  by 
the  mere  working  of  the  law  of  the  survival  of  the  fittest. 
If  Japan  were  the  only  country  in  the  world,  then,  gentle- 
men, you  might  continue  forever  to  please  yourselves  by 
living  on  in  a  Chinese  Classic  world.  But  this  plan  will 
not  do  when  there  are  so  many  other  countries  besides 
ours.  Troublesome  though  it  be,  we  are  bound  to  use 
the  word  why,  and  to  search  to  the  root  of  everything. 

half-joking  use  of  the  bonorifics  is  by  no  means  uncommon,  and  is 
used  to  give  many  a  sly  tap  under  cover  of  an  irreproachably  courteous 
phraseology. 


f  463.      kenkyu  no  hanashi. 

(NAKAZAWA  IWATA  SHI   GA   DAIGAKU   TStJZOKU 
KODANKWAI   NI  OITE  NOBERARETARU 
ENZETSU   NO   UCHI.i) 


Doitsu-koku  no  tofu  de^  Heidelberg  to  iu  tokoro  ni, 
daigakko  ga  arimashite,  soko  ni  kotoshi  hachi-jil-roku  ka 
shtchi  ni  narareru  toshi  no  yotta  sensei  ga  httori  orare- 
masu*.  Kakushaku^  taru  rojin  de^  sono  na  wo  Bunsen 
to  iimashlte,  sono  hito  no  semmon  kara  ieba,  watakushi- 
domo^  no  nakama  de  arimasu  ga, — nenrei  no  choyo^  to, 
chishiki  no  tasho  kara  moshimasu  to,  ware-ware  no  dai- 
sensei  de  arimasu  ga, — sono  hito  ga  seinen  no  koro,  aru 
heppin^  to  kon-in  no  yakusoku  ga  dekite,  nan-getsu  ikka 
ni  wa,  gozen  no  ju4cht'ji  goto  ni,  tera  ni  oite  kon-in  no 
shiki  wo  okonao  to  itte,  yakusoku  wo  shimashita  ga^— 
fujin  no  ho  de  wa,  rippa  nayosooi  wo  shite,  **  Osoku  nam 
to  ikenai'*  to  itte,  jU-ji  goro  kara  tera  ni  haitte,  Bunsen 
no  kuru  no  wo  matte  imashita  ga, — jU-ichi-ji  ni  natte 
mo,  ju-ni-ji  ni  natte  mo,  san-ji  ni  natte  mo,  yo-ji  ni  natte 
mo,  Bunsen  sensei  yatte'  konai  kara,  uchi  ye  hito  wo 

I.  Shi  is  Book  Language  for  **  Mr."  Noheraretaru  is  Book  Language 
for  noberareta,  honorific  potential  for  noheta ;  conf.  p.  244,  IT  403.  Ni 
oite  is  a  somewhat  stiff  equivalent  of  ni,  '*  in." — 2.  Narareru  is  honori- 
fic potential  for  naru ;  oraretnasu  is  similarly  for  orimasU.  Instead  of 
saying  **  is  eighty-six  years  old,  Japanese  idiom  prefers  to  say  *'  be- 
comes eighty-six  years  old." — 3.  HHIi  a  learned  Chinese  word  for 
**  hale."  The  following  particle  taru  is  a  Book  Language  form,  a  con- 
traction of  to  arut  "  being  (that)" ;  na  would  here  be  the  true  Col- 


A  TALK  ABOUT   INVESTIGATION. 

(EXTRACTED  FROM  A  LECTURE  DELIVERED  BEFORE  THE 
IMPERIAL  UNIVERSITY  POPULAR  LECTURE  SOCIETY 
BY   MR.   NAKAZAWA   IWATA.) 


At  Heidelberg,  a  town  in  Germany,  there  is  a  univer- 
sity, where  lives  an  old  professor  now  eighty-six  or  seven 
years  of  age.  He  is  a  hale  old  man,  and  his  name  is 
Bunsen.  He  and  I  are  colleagues,  in  the  sense  that 
we  are  both  specialists  in  the  same  field.  But  the 
difference  of  our  respective  ages  and  of  our  talents  makes 
of  me  his  very  humble  follower. — Well,  this  old  gentleman, 
in  his  younger  days,  had  engaged  himself  to  a  beautiful 
girl.  It  had  been  settled  that  the  wedding  should  take 
place  at  the  church  at  about  eleven  o'clock  in  the 
morning  of  a  certain  day  in  a  certain  month.  So  the  bride, 
anxious  not  to  be  late,  reached  the  church  about  ten  in 
brilliant  array,  to  find,  however,  that  Bunsen  had  not  yet 
arrived.  Eleven  o'clock  came,  twelve  o'clock  came,  three 
o'clock,  four  o'clock, — still  no  sign  of  the  Professor.     A 

loquial  equivalent.  Dtf  =  "  being." — ^4.  A  humble  term;  see  bottom  of 
p.  46.  Ware-ware^  a  little  lower  down,  is  humble  too.  The  lecturer 
and  Dr.  Bunsen  are  both  chemists. — 5.  Ch5-yd=*^  old  young,"  hence 
"  age."  Ta-sho=*'  much  little,"  hence  **  amount ;"  conf.  p.  32,  IT  48, 
for  the  *'  synthesis  of  contradictories,"  which  these  terms  exemplify. — 
6.  This  word  is  used  half-jokingly.  Indeed  there  is  a  touch  of  raillery 
in  all  this  passage,  especially  in  the  bride^s  words  '*  Osoku  naru  to 
ikenai." — 7.  A  meaningless  expletive.  The  yatte  just  below  has  its 
usual  sense  of  **  sending."—- 


428  LECTURES. 

yatte  ukagawaseru  to,  sensei  wa  doko  ye  itta  ha  ?  inai 
to  iu  no  de^yfujin  no  ho  de  wa  taiso  hara  wo  tatete,  sugu 
uchi  ni  kaette  shimatta  to  iu  koto,^ 

Sate  Bunsen  sensei  wa,  sono  hi  no  asa  kara  jikken- 
shitsu  de  chiisa  na  shtken  wo  hajimete  ita  ga, — sono 
shiken  ni  omoshiromi  ga  tsuite,  jikan  no  sugiru  no  ni 
mo  kokorozukazUf  y agate  tokei  wo  miru  to,  gogo  no 
roku'ji  de  atta  kara,  ki  ga  tsuite,  odoroite,  tera  ye  itte 
miru  to,  fujin  no  ho  wa,  okotte  kaette  shimatta  ato  de 
arimashita.  Soko  de,  Bunsen  sensei  no  iwaku^^ : "  Kon-in 
to  iu  mono  wa,  mendokusai  mono  da  "  to, — sore-giri  sono 
go  wa  kon-in  wo  sezu  ni,  konnichi  de  mo  kakushaku  taru 
rojin  de,  musai  de  orimasu. 


^^Kore  wo  mite  mo,  gakumon  no  kenkyu  no  omx)shiroi 
koto  wa  o  wakari  ni  narimasho, 

8.  There  is  not  any  intention  of  quoting  words  actually  used. 
Iu  has  here  little  signification.  To  iu  no  de  =  *'  it  being  the  fact 
that...*' — 9.  Koto  is  here  a  sort  of  expletive.  To  iu,  "it  is  said 
that/'  does  not  require  to  be   represented  in  the  English  transla- 


N.  B.  Apropos  of  these  lectures,  we  take  the  opportunity  to  re- 
mind students  of  the  fundamental  difference  between  English  and 
Japanese  in  the  matter  of  the  length  and  complication  of  sentences, 
brought  about  by  that  system  of  syntactical  "integration,"  which  we 
have  explained  in  IT  442 — ^4,  pp.  273  et  seq.    No  Englishman  will 


LECTURES.  429 

messenger  was  sent  to  the  house  to  make  enquiries. 
Where  was  he  ?  Nowhere  to  be  seen  !  Thereupon  home 
went  the  bride  in  a  fury. 

The  fact  was  that  the  Professor  had  instituted  some 
small  experiment  in  his  laboratory  on  the  morning  of  the 
day  in  question,  and  had  become  so  deeply  interested  in 
it  as  to  fail  to  notice  the  flight  of  the  hours.  By  and  by, 
on  looking  at  his  watch  and  finding  that  it  was  six  o'clock 
in  the  afternoon,  he  recollected  the  situation  with  dismay, 
and  hurried  off  to  the  church  to  see  what  could  be  done. 
But  the  bride  had  already  departed  in  her  wrath.  There- 
upon the  Professor  came  to  the  conclusion  that  marriage 
was  a  bother.  So  he  remained  unmarried  from  that  day 
forward,  and  he  still  lives  on  as  a  hale  old  man,  but  wife- 
less. 

This  example  may  suffice  to  show  you  the  attraction 
which  scientific  investigation  is  capable  of  exercising. 

tion. — 10.  No  iwaku,  lit.  "the  speech  of,'*  is  a  Classical  equiva- 
lent for  the  Colloquial  ga  iimashita, — 11.  The  original  wording  of 
this  last  paragraph  has  been  slightly  altered,  to  suit  the  purposes 
^f  the  present  wortc. 


attain  to  a  good  Japanese  style,  unless  he  learns  how  to  concatenate 
his  thoughts  into  long  and  complicated  periods,  just  as  no  Japanese 
will  express  himself  clearly  in  English,  unless  he  learns  to  be  short 
and  simple.  The  English  translation  of  the  above  lecture  has  no 
less  than  eighteen  sentences.    The  Japanese  original  has  but  five. 


f  464.    HAYARI-GI  WO  IMASHIMU^ 

(MITSUKURI    RINSHO    SHI    GA    MEIJI    NI-JU-NEN 

NI  MEIJI  HORITSU  GAKKO  DE  NOBERARETA 

ENZETSU  NO  UCHI.) 


Kore  wa  mina  san  no  o  ki  ni  iran  ka  mo  shiremasen 
ga, — kanete  watakushi  no  kangaete  orimasu  koto  de, 
zokugo  ni  tonari  no  Jinta-miso*  to  iu  koto  ga  arimasi, 
Watakushi  mo  tonari  no  Jinta-miso  to  wa,  do  iu  imi 
ka  shirimasen  ga, — mazu  jibun  no  uchi  no  mono  wa 
donna  mono  de  mo  umaku  nakute,  tonari  no  mono  wa 
nan  de  mo  Umai  to  iu  yd  na  koto  de,  shigoku  kohei  de 
nai  kokoro-mochi  de  gozaimasu. 

Sono  koto  wa,  kuni  to  kuni  to  no  aida  ni  mo  am  koto 
de, — go  isshin^  kara  kono  kata,  seifu  mo  jimmin  mo 
O'Bei  kakkoku  wo  urayande,  nan  de  mo  kan  de  mo^ 
"  O'Bei  I  0-Bei  /"  to  ii ;  ichi  mo  6-Bei,  ni  mo  O-Bei 
de  susumimashtta^,  Ittai  do  iu  mono  de  arimasu  ha  ? 
Nihon-jin  wa,  jibun  kara  shin-hatsumei  wo  nasu  no  wa 
sukunakute,  gwaikoku  no  mane  ga  6i  no  de,  ichiban 
saisho  wa  Chosen-jin  ga  shisho  de,^  chuko  de  wa  Shina 
no  mane  wo  yatte,  zuibun  umaku  yatta,  Ima  wa  0-Bei 
no  mane   wo  yarimasu   ga,   naka-naka  yoku  yarimasu. 

I.  A  Book  Language  form,  the  "  conclusive  present,"  correspond- 
ing at  the  end  of  sentences  to  the  Colloquial  itnashimeru. — 2.  Home- 
made bean  sauce  is  sometimes  so-called,  possibly  from  the  name  of  its 
inventor. — 3,  The  name  of  the  revolution  or  restoration,  which,  in  the 
year  1868,  restored  the  Mikado  to  absolute  power,  after  the  long  eclipse 
it  had  met  with  at  the  hands  of  the  ShOgunate,  ever  since  Yoritomo's 


A    WARNING    AGAINST    A 
FASHIONABLE  MANIA, 

(EXTRACTED  FROM  A  LECTURE  DELIVERED  IN  1887 
BEFORE  THE  MEIJI  LAW  SCHOOL 
BY  Dr.  MITSUKURI  RINSHO.) 


Perhaps,  gentlemen,  what  I  have  to  say  may  not  please 
you,  but  I  have  been  thinking  of  the  popular  saying  about 
**  neighbour  jfinta's  bean  sauce.*'  I  myself  am  ignorant 
of  how  the  phrase  originated.  But  it  applies  to  that  most 
unevenly  balanced  state  of  mind  which  condemns  every- 
thing connected  with  home  as  nasty,  and  exalts  everything 
connected  with  its  neighbours  as  nice. 

A  similar  state  of  mind  is  sometimes  found  in  nations. 
Ever  since  the  revolution  of  1868,  both  our  government 
and  our  people  have  been  smitten  with  the  desire  to  re- 
semble the  nations  of  Europe  and  America.  On  every 
occasion  the  cry  is  "  Europe  and  America  !  "  It  is  Eu- 
rope and  America  first,  Europe  and  America  second,  and 
so  on  continually.  At  bottom,  what  are  the  facts  of  the 
case  ?  We  Japanese,  having  but  scant  capacity  for  original 
invention,  usually  look  abroad  for  our  models.  At  the  very 
beginning  of  our  history  the  Koreans  were  our  teachers. 
In  the  Middle  Ages  we  imitated  China,  and  we  did  it 

usurpation  in  the  twelfth  century.  Pronounced  isshin^  this  word 
is  written  — j0f»  ^^^  means  "  altogether  new."  It  may  also  be  pronoun- 
ced ishin,  and  is  then  written  (||  ^,  and  means  ''  new  henceforward." 
In  both  forms  the  allusion  is  to  the  new  departure  in  Japanese  politics, 
which  the  year  1868  saw  inaugurated — 4.  See  p.  360,  foot-note. — 5. 
Susumimashita  here=**have  gone  on  saying"  (or  doing). — 


432  LECTURES. 

Watakushi  wa  nani  mo  tnuyami  ni  waruku  iu  no  de  wa 
nai,  Muko  de  yattoko-sa  to  iku-nen  mo  kakatte  kangaeta 
no  wo  sugu  torn  to  iu  no  wa,  "  rosezu  shite  ko  ari "  ^  to 
Itta  yd  na  wake  de,  shigoku  yoroshii  ga, — sono  kawari  ni 
wa,  tokaku  tonari  no  Jinta-miso  ga  atte,  Nihon  no  koto 
wa,  donna  ii  lioto  de  mo  warui  yd  ni  omoi  ;  Seiyo-jin 
to  ieba,  donna  Seiyo-jin  de  mo,  chie  mo  ari,  gakumon 
mo  ari,  kane  mo  ari,  hinko  mo  ii  yd  ni  omoi;  Nihon- 
jin  wa,  dare  de  mo  haka  de,  mugaku  da  to  omotte  iru 
hito  ga  naka-naka  6i  yd  ni  omowaremasu,  Naruhodo! 
6-Bei  wa,  ii  hito  mo,  erai  hito  mo  arimasu  ga, — nani 
mo  0-Bei  da  kara  to  itte  mo,  haka  mo  areha,^  mugaku 
7no  areha,  akuto  mo  arimasu,  Nihon  de  mo,  ichi-gai 
ni  warui  to  wa  ienai  no  wo^ — sore  wo  sukoshi  mo  ku- 
betsu  shimasen  de,  nan  de  mo  O-Bei  nara  ii,  Nihon 
no  wa  ikenai ;  seido  horitsu  kara  i-shoku-ju  made  0- 
Bei  no  ga  ii  to  ii,^^  hitotsu  shina-mono  de  hudoshu  ya 
komori-gasa  made  Nihon  no  wa  ikenai  to  iu,  Goku 
ha.nahadashii  no  ni  nam  to,  Nihon  de  seishita  mono  de 
mo,  Seiyo-moji  no  hari-gami  wo  sum  to,  "  Kore  wa  O- 
Bei  no  da  kara  ii"  to  iu.  Sore  bakari  de  wa  nai. 
Seiyo-jin  ga  itta  koto  da  to,  tsumaranai  koto  de  mo, 
^*  Naruhodo  f  mottomoi"  da  to  ii ;  Nihon-jin  da  to,  don- 
na ii  koto  de  mo,  **  Nan  da  ?  tsumaranai  /"  to  iu,  Tada- 
ima  horitsu-gaku  de  mo,  nani  gakkwa  de  mo,    Teikoku 

6.  The  civilisation  was  indeed  Chinese,  but  it  filtered  in  at  first, 
i.e.,  previous  to  the  eighth  century  after  Christ,  through  Korean  chan- 
jjels. — 7.  An  allusion  to  the  more  usual  phrase  rd  shite  ko  nashi^ 
*'"  trouble  for  nothing."  Ari  is  the  "  conclusive  present "  of  am  in  the 
Written  Language.  Kd^  here  rendered  "profit,"  is  properly  "g^eat 
deeds,"  *•  merit." — 8.  For  this  construction  with  the  conditional,  see 
p.  igi. — g.  Wo  is  here  used  adversatively  in  the  sense  of  "  but ;  "  conf. 
H  132,  p.  90,  and  %  93,  p.  64. — 10.  In  ii  to  ii,  the  first  ii  means 
"  good,"  the  second  is  the  indefinite  form  of  iu,  *'  to  say." 


LECTURES.  433 

very  well.  At  present  we  are  imitating  Europe  and 
America,  and  we  do  it  admirably.  Far  be  it  from  me  to 
pass  any  general  censure  on  our  conduct.  Indeed,  what 
could  be  more  commendable  than  the  speedy  adoption  by 
us  of  that  which  it  has  cost  other  nations  centuries  of 
anxious  thought  to  elaborate  ?  We  but  exemplify  the 
saying  about  "  profit  without  trouble."  On  the  other 
hand,  I  fear  that  we  also  exemplify  **  neighbour  J  into' s 
bean  sauce,''  I  fear  that  there  are  too  many  among  us 
who  consider  everything  Japanese  bad, — even  the  good 
things, — who  consider  any  and  every  foreigner  clever, 
learned,  rich,  and  moral,  and  on  the  contrary  despise 
every  Japanese  as  foolish  and  ignorant.  Europe  and 
America  forsooth  !  Of  course  those  countries  have  their 
good  men,  their  able  men.  But  for  all  that,  they  have 
their  fools,  their  ignoramuses,  and  their  ruffians  as  well. 
Equally  unreasonable  is  it  to  condemn  the  Japanese  en 
masse.  But  so  little  discrimination  do  some  persons 
display,  that  they  insist  on  everything  foreign  being 
good,  and  everything  Japanese  bad.  They  say  that, 
from  such  grand  things  as  government  and  laws,  down  to 
such  familiar  ones  as  clothing,  food,  and  shelter,  the 
foreign  is  always  to  be  preferred  ;  and  they  object  to  the 
very  same  article  when  it  is  of  Japanese  make,  even  if  it 
be  but  a  bottle  of  wine  or  an  umbrella.  This  craze  reaches 
its  extremest  limits  when  Japanese  manufactures  have 
labels  written  in  European  letters  stuck  on  to  them,  and 
are  then  pronounced  to  be  good,  because  supposed  to  be 
foreign.  Neither  is  this  all.  Any  remark  made  by  a 
foreigner,  even  if  a  trivial  one,  is  applauded  for  its  wis- 
dom. But  if  the  speaker  is  a  Japanese,  his  utterances 
are  despised  as  trivial,  however  excellent  they  may  be 


434  LECTURES. 

Daigaku  no  gakushi  ya,  0-Bei  ye  iiU  kita  dokutoru 
nado,  subarashii  Nihon-gakusha  ga  nani  ka  itte  mo,  yoi 
ni  tattobimasen.  Sore  de,  Yoroppa-jin  da  to,  sugu  ni 
kampuku  shite  shimaimasii.  Sore  ga  Jinta-miso  to  iu 
koto  daro  to  zonjimasu, 

Jinta-miso  wa,  horitsu  ya  seido  ni  mo  ari-gachi  de 
arimasu,  Ittai  kangaete  mimasu  to,  jibun  no  hunt  de 
shi-kitari  no  koto  wa,  waruku  mo  yoku  mieso  na  mono 
da  no  ni, — jibun  no  kuni  no  mono  wa,  nan  de  mo  waru- 
ku mieru  to  iu  no  wa,  nan  da  ka  hen  de  arimasu, 
Gakusei  shokun  wa,  temmon-gaku  wo  manabareru  kata 
naraba,  "  Masaka  Nihon  no  jitsu-getsu  sei-shin  wa  ikenai, 
Yoroppa  no  jitsu-getsu  sei-shin  no  ho  ga  ii  *'  to  wa  omo- 
waremasumai  shi ;  mata  chishitsu-gaku  wo  manabareru 
kata  naraba,  **  Nihon  no  chiso  wa  ikenai.  Yoroppa 
no  chiso  ga  ii  "  to  wa  omowaremasmnai  ga, — shokun 
wa  horitsu -gaku  wo  manabaremasit  tokoro  de,  horitsu- 
gaku  nado  wa,  domo  Jinta-miso  ga  dekiru  yatsu^^  desu, 

Zentai  kwanshu  to  iu  mono  wa,  doko  7ii  mo  aru 
mono  de,  ichi-gai  ni  kwanshu-  da  kara  ii  to  wa  iemasu- 
mai  ga, — nagaku  tsuzuite  iru  kwanshu  wa,  mazu  ii  mono 
desii.  Nihon  ni  mo,  korai  kara  no  kwanshu  ga  ari- 
masu ga,  naka  ni  wa  zuibun  rippa  na  kwanshu  mo  ari- 

7nasu Watakushi  ga  ko  moshita  tote,  nani  mo    shu- 

kyu  dano,  gwanko  no  kotsu-kotsu  dano  to  iu  no^^  de  wa 
kesshite  gozaimasen,  Tada  yoku  chui  wo  shite  kudasai 
to  iu  shui  na  no^^  de  gozaimasu. 

II.  Fa/5u  here  colloquially  =s mono  or  Ao/o.  The  literal  sense  is: 
"  As  for  the  study  of  law,  oh!  it  is  a  thing  from  which  Jinta's  sauce 
eventuates." — 1 2.  This  sentence  may  be  most  easily  parsed  by  con- 
sidering no  as  here  equivalent  to  mono^  "a  person." — 13.  For  na  no^ 
see  foot-note  to  p.  132.    Thifi  is  a  typical  example  of  its  use; 


LECTURES.  435 

in  reality.  At  present,  be  it  in  the  field  of  law,  or  be  it  in 
that  of  any  other  branch  of  learning,  a  graduate  of  the  Im- 
perial University  or  a  splendid  Japanese  5at;an^,  an  LL.D. 
who  has  been  to  Europe  and  America,  may  say  what  he 
likes, — it  is  very  hard  for  him  to  get  a  respectful  hearing. 
Let  the  speaker  be  a  European,  and  his  every  utterance 
will  be  greeted  with  admiration.  That,  I  take  it,  is  an  ex- 
emplification of  **  neighbour  yinta's  bean  sauce.** 

**  Neighbour  ^inta's  bean  sauce  *'  is  apt  to  find  its  way 
also  into  laws  and  politics.  Viewing  this  subject  from 
a  general  standpoint,  one  would  suppose  that  even  the 
more  objectionable  customs  of  a  man's  country  would 
tend  to  appear  good  in  his  eyes.  That  everything  relat- 
ing to  his  country  should  appear  bad  to  him,  is  indeed 
passing  strange.  If,  gentlemen,  you  were  students  of 
astronomy,  you  would  hardly  think  the  sun,  moon,  and 
stars  of  Japan  inferior  to  the  sun,  moon,  and  stars  of 
Europe.  Neither,  if  you  were  students  of  geology,  would 
you  be  likely  to  think  the  strata  of  Japan  inferior  to  the 
strata  of  Europe.  Nevertheless,  gentlemen,  as  students 
of  law,  you  are  liable  to  fall  into  the  error  of  praising 
**  neighbour  Jinta^s  bean  sauce" 

Every  country  has  its  customs ;  and,  although  we  cannot 
argue  universally  from  the  existence  of  a  custom  to  its  ex- 
cellence, still  we  may  legitimately  infer  some  degree  of  ex- 
cellence in  any  custom  which  has  existed  for  a  great  length 
of  time.  Japan,  like  other  countries,  has  her  customs,  which 
have  been  handed  down  from  ancient  times,  and  most  ex- 
cellent many  of  them  are You  must  in  no  wise  con- 
clude from  these  remarks  of  mine  that  I  am  in  everything 
a  tory  and  a  pig-headed  fellow.  My  object  is  solely  to 
impress  on  you  the  necessity  for  careful  Consideration. 


f  465.  TOKUIKU  NI  TSUITE  NO  ICHI-AN/ 


(KATO  HiROYUKI  SHI  GA  DAI  NIHON  KYOIKU 
KWAI  DE  ENZETSU  SARETA*  UCHI.) 


Yo  no.naka  ni  wa  ^^me-aki  sen-nin,  mekura  sen-nin^'* 
to  iu  koto  ga  aru,  Tsugo  ni-sen-nin  no  ucht,  me-aki  to 
mekura  ga  sen-nin-zutsu  aru  to  iu  no  de  arimasu  ga, — 
watakushi  wa,  me-aki  to  mekura  wa  totemo  hambun-zutsu 
aro  to  wa  omowanai.  Ni-sen-nin  no  uchi  ni,  sen  ku- 
hyaku  kU'ju  shichi-hachi-nin  made  wa  mekura  de,  sono 
ato  no  ni'San-nin  ga  me-aki  de, — sore  mo  me-aki  ni  naren 
kurai  de  aru,  Sore-hodo  yo  no  naka  ni  wa  mekura  ga  6i. 
Sore  wa  honto  no  mekura  de  wa  nai,  Rigaku  tetsugaku 
ga  mekura  na  no  da.  Shin  ni  gakumx)n-j6  kara  ieha, 
sen  ku'hyaku  ku-ju  shichi-hachi-nin  wa  mina  mekura  de 
aru.     Sore  dake  ni  6i  mekura  no  yo  no  naka  de  areba*^, 

I.  The  lecture,  from  which  these  few  pages  have  been  extracted, 
has  been  reprinted  by  its  learned  and  eloquent  author  in  pamphlet 
form  under  the  title  of  "  Toku-iku  Hoho  An,'^  Dr.  KatO,  in  granting 
the  present  writer  permission  to  make  use  of  the  composition  in  ques- 
tion, suggested  that  it  would  be  best  to  take  the  text  of  the  pamphlet, 
as  having  been  touched  up,  and  hence  showing  a  better  style.  After 
some  consideration,  this  advice  has  not  been  followed,  it  seeming 
more  interesting,  and  also  probably  more  profitable  from  the  point  of 
View  of  a  student  of  the  Colloquial,  to  print  the  words  exactly  as 
taken  down  by  the   short-hand    reporter    from    the    accomplished 


A  POINT  OF  MORAL  CULTURE. 


(EXTRACTED  FROM  A  LECTURE  DELIVERED  BEFORE 

THE  EDUCATIONAL  SOCIETY  OF  JAPAN 

BY  Dr.  KATO  HIROYUKI.) 


The  proverb  tells  us  that  "  for  every  thousand  with 
eyes,  there  are  a  thousand  without."  That  is  to  say  that, 
out  of  a  total  of  two  thousand  persons,  there  are  a  thou- 
sand who  can  see  and  a  thousand  who  cannot.  In  my 
opinion,  however,  the  proportion  of  those  who  can,  to 
those  who  cannot  see,  is  by  no  means  equal.  Out  of 
every  two  thousand  persons,  no  less  than  one  thousand 
nine  hundred  and  ninety-seven  or  eight  are  blind,  leaving 
but  two  or  three  with  sight,  while  even  those  two  or  three 
cannot  see  properly.  Thus  enormous  in  this  world  of 
ours  is  the  proportion  of  blind  folks.  I  do  not  mean  to 
say   that    they   are   blind   physically.      They   are   blind 

speaker's  lips,  and  published  in  the  "Journal  of  the  Educational 
Society  of  Japan,"  No.  68,  and  also  in  the  "  Taika  Roitshu"  No.  7, 
the  text  of  which  latter  periodical  has*  here  been  followed.  The  an 
of  ichi-an  is  lit.  "  an  opinion,"  hence  "  a  case,"  here  rendered  *'  a 
point."  2.  Observe  the  potential  used  honorifically.  3.  For  this 
proverb,  see  p.  322,  No.  21.  Observe  here  and  elsewhere  how  we 
anglicise  the  style  by  turning  the  phrase  personally  {"  the  proverb 
tells  us,"  etc.),  and  conf.-  p.  272,  IT  440.  If  all  the  sentences  ware  left 
impersonal  as  in  the  Japanese  original,  the  translation  would  never 
read  like  genuine  English  — 4.  The  conditional  mood  here  has  its 
original  Classical  sense  of  "since,  "when,"  or  "as,"..,.,"  not 
"  if. . .-.  ;"  conf,  p.  179. — 


438  LECTURES. 

tnekura  wo  osamete^  iku  dogu  to  iu  mono  ga  nakereba 
naran.  Ni-san-nin  no  me-aki  wo  osameru  dogu  yori 
wa,  sen  ku-hyaku  ku-ju  shichi-hacki-nin  made  aru 
mekura  wo  osameru  no  ga  hitsuyo  de  aru.  Sore  yue 
nif  watakushi  wa  sen  ku-hyaku  ku-ju  shichi-hachi-nin  no 
mekura  no  tame  ni  hitsuyo  de  aru  kara,  sono  ho  no  dori 
kara  ieha,  watakushi  wa  shukyo  to  iu  mono  ga  taihen 
suki  ni  nam.  Doitsu  no  tetsugakusha  Schopenhauer  to 
iu  hito  no  iUta^  kotoba  niy  *'  Shukyo  wa  hotaru  no  yd  na 
mono'',  Kurai  tokoro  de  nakereba,  hikaru  koto  ga  deki- 
nai^''  to  mOshimashlta  ga^ — watakushi  no  kangae  ga, 
ima  moshita  tori  ni,  yo  no  naka  no  ni-sen-nin  no  uchiy  sen 
ku-hyaku  ku-ju  shichi-hachi-nift  made  wa  mekura  de  aru 
to  sureba^y  maru  de  yami  no  sekai  de  aru.  Yami  no 
sekai  de  areba,  hotaru  ga  hikaranakereba  narimasen. 


Auguste  Comte  to  iu  hito  no  kotoba  ni,  ^*  Kono  yo  no 
naka  no  susumu  wa,  shUkyo-tetsugaku  kara  sozo-tetsugaku 
no  sekai^^ ;  sore  kara  susunde,  jikken-tetsiigaku  ni  naru  " 
to  iu  koto  wo  moshimashita  ga, — watakushi  no  kangae 
de  wa,  shukyo  no  sekai  wo  hanarete  shimau  koto  wa  yoi 
ni  dekinai,  Ippan  no  jimniin  ga  shukyo  no  sekai  ni  iru 
mono  de  aru  to  kangaeru.  So  iu  yo  ni  kangaereba,  suna- 
wachi  shukyo  to  iu  mono  wa,  rigaku  ya  tetsugaku  no  me 

5.  Osameru,  "  to  pacify,"  "  to  govern,"  hence  here  "  to  guide." — 6. 
lata  is  *'  a  westernism,"  see  p.  159.  .  7.  Supply  da,  "  is." — 8.  Ob- 
serve the  double  negative,  used  in  Japanese  to  express  the.  sense 


LECTURES.  439 

scientifically.  One  thousand  nine  hundred  and  ninety- 
seven  or  eight  of  them  are  blind  if  regarded  from  the 
standpoint  of  the  truly  educated.  Since,  then,  this  world 
is  one  in  which  the  blind  so  greatly  predominate,  we  need 
something  wherewith  to  guide  them.  Far  more  indis- 
pensable than  the  machinery  wherewith  to  guide  the  two 
or  three  who  can  see,  is  that  required  •  for  the  guidance 
of  the  one  thousand  nine  hundred  and  ninety-seven  or 
eight  who  cannot.  Thus  does  it  come  about  that  a  con- 
sideration of  the  subject  from  our  present  point  of  view 
makes  me  quite  a  friend  to  religion,  as  the  thing  need- 
ed for  the  guidance  of  the  one  thousand  nine  hundred  and 
ninety-seven  or  eight  who  cannot  see.  The  German 
philosopher  Schopenhauer  has  said  :  **  Religion  is  like 
a  firefly.  It  can  shine  only  in  dark  places."  Now,  if  I  am 
right  in  thinking,  as  I  said  just  now,  that  out  of  every  two 
thousand  persons  in  the  world,  no  fewer  than  one  thousand 
nine  hundred  and  ninety-seven  or  eight  cannot  see,  ours 
is  indeed  a  world  of  total  darkness.  And  if  it  is  so  dark 
a  world,  the  light  of  the  fireflies  is  not  to  be  dispensed  with. 
Auguste  Comte  has  said  that  the  stages  of  the  world's 
development  are  first  from  the  theological  order  of  ideas 
to  the  metaphysical,  and  thence  on  to  that  of  the  positive 
philosophy.  But  in  my  opinion  it  is  an  infinitely  difficult 
matter  for  the  world  to  pass  out  of  the  theological  stage. 
I  think  that  the  mass  of  mankind  are  in  this  theological 
stage.  And  to  one  who  thinks  thus,  religion,  though 
unacceptable, — indeed  unworthy  of  mention, — from  the 
scientific   or   philosophical    standpoint,   because   dealing 

which  we  render  by  the  word  "only." — g.  To  sureba  =  ^^  if  one  posits 
that. . . . ,"  henee  '*  if  I  am  (allowed  to  be)  right  in  thinking  that.'. . .  .*' 
ic^.  Supply  ni  narl^  correlated  with  ni  nam  in  the  next  clause.— 


440  LECTURES. 

kara  mireba,  makoto  ni  kilri  wo  toite^  torn  ni  taran,  shiga 
ni  kakuru  ni  taran^^  to  iu  yo  na  mono  de  am  keredomOy  so- 
710  uchi  sen  ku-hyaku  ku-ju  shtchi-hachi-nin  no  mekura  no 
tame  ni  wa  makoto  ni  kitsuyo  naru  mono.  Sore  da  kara, 
konnichi  ippan  no  tokuiku  to  iu  mono  wa,  do  shite  mo  shu- 
kyo  de  nakereba,yaku  ni  tatan.  Arigatai  to  ka,  osoroshii 
to  ka  iu  Kami  Sama^^  to  ka,  Hotoke  Sama  to  ka,  ydfei  to 
ka  iu  Honzon  Sama  ga  atte,  sore  wo  tayori  ni  shite  kunto 
shite  iku  oshie  de  nakereba,  ippan  no  gumai  na  sekai  ni 
wa  kiki-me  ga  nai.  Rigaku  tetsugaku  wa  kosho  na  mono 
da  keredomo,  kore  wa  gakusha  shakwai  ni  kitsuyo  7ia 
mono  de,  sono  hoka  ni  nani  ni  mo  yd  wo  nasu  koto  wa 
dekinai.  Sono  hoka,  ippan  no  hlto  ni  wa,  shukyo  no  ho 
kara  deta  tokuiku  de  nakereba,  sukoshi  mo  yd  wo  nasan 
mono  de  aro  to  iyo-iyo  watakushi  no  kangae  ja  omou. 

Sore  nareba,  shUkyo  wa  do  iu  shukyo  ga  yokaro  to  iu 
mondai  ga  sono  tsugi  ni  dete  kuru.  Donna  shukyo  wo 
fnochiitaraba,  kono  ga  aro  ka  to  iu  mondai  ga  dete  kuru 
ga, — watakUshi  wa  shukyo  no  fukai  tokoro  wo  shiran, 
Daitai  no  seishitsu  wa,  dotoku -tetsugaku  kara  mireba, 
shinri  ni  kanawan  mono  to  minakereba^^  naran.  Kuwa- 
shii  koto  wa  shirimasen  kara,  dono  shukyo  ga  yokaro  to 
watakushi  ga  kesshite  sadameru  koto  wa  dekin.  Tada 
konnichi  made  no  sekai  ni  kono  no  atta  tokoro  no  ato  ni 
tsuite  jijitsu  no  ue  yori  kangaete  mireba'^*',   Yasokyo  ga 

II.  Lit.  **  not  sufficient  to  place  on  the  teeth,"  i.e.,  "  unworthy  of 
mention."  For  the  negative  taran,  ist  conj.,  instead  oftarin^  3rd  conj., 
see  p.  160. — 12.  Kami,  though  adopted  by  the  Protestant  missionaries 
to  denote  the  Christian  God,  her«  has  its  proper  original  sense,  i.e.,  it 
denotes  the  gods  and  goddesses  of  Shintoism.  yoteit  lit,  "the  Supreme 
Emperor,"  is  here  the  Christian  God.  For  the  sake  of  making  a  dis- 
tinction, we  have  rendered  Kami  by  *'  a  deified  hero,"  that  being  a  fair 
approach  to  the  status  of  many  of  the  gods  of  Shintoism.    Honzon,  ori- 


LECTURES.  441 

with  gratuitous  fancies, — religion,  I  say,  is  indispens- 
able for  the  sake  of  the  one  thousand  nine  hundred  and 
ninety-seven  or  eight  who  cannot  see.  For  this  reason 
moral  culture  in  general,  inculcate  it  as  you  will,  is  of  no 
avail  in  our  day  unless  associated  with  religion.  No 
system  of  training  will  produce  practical  results  in  this 
universally  stupid  world  of  ours,  unless  it  possess,  and  use 
as  its  lever,  some  object  of  worship  either  beneficent  or 
redoubtable,  be  it  a  deified  hero,  a  Buddha,  or  a  supreme 
God.  Science  is  a  Sublime  thing.  But  it. is  needed  only 
by  the  learned  world,  beyond  the  limits  of  which  it  is  power- 
less. I  grow  daily  more  fully  convinced  that,  beyond  those 
limits,  among  mankind  at  large,  no  moral  training  that 
does  not  start  from  religion  is  likely  to  have  the  least  effect. 

Supposing  this  position  granted,  there  next  arise  the 
questions  : — Which  religion  is  probably  the  best  ?  Which 
religion  will  probably,  if  adopted,  be  most  fertile  in 
results  ?  In  the  presence  of  such  questions  I  feel  my 
own  ignorance  of  the  profounder  aspects  of  religion. 
Nevertheless  the  general  character  of  religion  is  known 
to  me,  and  this  general  character  must  be  pronounced  to 
be  in  disagreement  with  truth  as  deduced  from  moral 
philosophy.  My  ignorance  of  details  incapacitates  me 
altogether  from  deciding  which  religion  is  the  best.     But 

ginally  a  Buddhist  term,  means  lit.  ♦*  the  chiefly  revered,*'  i.e.,  '*  the 
(chief)  object  of  worship."  The  many  Samd'i  here  are  slightly  ironi- 
cal.— i^.MirUt  "to  see,*'  here  and  often  elsewhere=**  to  consider," 
"  to  regard  as.'*— 14  Lit.  "  If,  following  after  the  traces  of  that  which 
(tokoro)  has  been  of  effect  in  the  world  of  till  to-day,  and  looking,  one 
considers  from  the  top  of  facts,  one  may  think  (potential  kangaeraru- 
ru;  also  to  be  rendered  **  I  am  inclined  to  think*')  in  such  wise 
that  Christianity  has  been  of  the  most  great  deeds."  For  kangaera- 
rurUf  instead  of  kangaerareru,  see  N.  B.  to  p.  161. — 


442  LECTURES. 

ichiban  kdseki  ga  atta  yd  ni  kangaeraruru,  Bukkyo  no 
ho  wa,  ittai  no  yosu  wo  kangaete  mireha^  tetsugaku  made 
mo  haitte  iru  yd  de^^,  fukai  dori  made  toite  aru,  Naka- 
naka  Yasokyo  nado  no  yo  na  asai  mono  de  nai,  Yohodo 
kosho  na  mono  de  arimasu  keredomo,  shikashi^^  shukyo  to 
shtta  kond  de  wa^^^  Yasokyo  hodo  no  kono  wa  nakaro  to 
kangaemasu,  Shikashi-nagara^  mukashi  wa  Bukkyo  mo 
kono  ga  atta  de  arimasho^^  ga, — konnichi  de  wa  kono  ga 
USUI  yd  ni  kangaeru,  Kono  Bukkyo  7io  kono  no  usui  no 
way  shukyo  ga  warui  no  de  naku,  shukyo  wo  tsukasadoru 
hito  ni  jubun  tekito  shita  hito  ga  takusan  nai  tame  ni, 
Bukkyo  no  kono  ga  nai  no  ka  mo  shiremasen^^.  Sore  wa 
do  da  ka  shirimasen  ga, — Yasokyo  wa  konnichi  Yoroppa 
ni  jubiin  kono  ga  aru,  Mottomo  mukashi  yori  kono  ga 
otoroete  iru  keredomo,  konnichi  de  mo  zuibun  aru.  Yo- 
roppa de  wa,  jdto-shakwai  de  mo  Yasokyo  wo  shinzuru^^ 
hito  ga  oi.  Yoroppa  no  kifH  ya  shiso  no  daibubun  wa, 
Yasokyo  ga  moto  ni  natte,  so  shite  sono  kuni  no  kifuya 
shiso  ga  sore  kara  umi-dasarete  iru.     Sore  hodo  kono  no 

15.  Lit.  '*  being  {de)  the  appearance  that  even  philosophy  is  inside." — 

16.  Shikashi  followed  by  keredomo  may  seem  tautological.  Such  com- 
binations are,  however,  not  infrequent,  though  the  present  writer  does 
not  undertake  to  recommend  them  to  the  imitation  of  foreign  students. — 

17.  Lit,  "  with  regard  to  its  efficacy  as  being  a  religion,*'  suru  here 
resembling  our  verb  "to  be  ;'*  conf.  IT  356^7,  pp-  220 — i. — 18.  Atta 
de  arimashd=i**  it  probably  is  a  fact  that  there  was." — 19.  According 
to  European  notions  of  logic,  the  last  clause  of  this  sentence  is  super- 
fluous, because  reiterating  the  ideas  of  the  first,  and  we  should  incline 
to  make  the  sentence  end  after  tame  with  some  such  words  as  taki- 


LECTURES.  443 

a  practical  consideration  of  the  effects  produced  on  the 
world  by  various  religions  down  to  the  present  day  leads 
me  to  look  on  Christianity  as  probably  the  one  that  has 
made  most  proof  of  efficiency.  Buddhism,  indeed,  consi- 
dered theoretically  and  in  its  totality,  with  the  philosophy 
which  is  apparently  contained  in  it  and  the  profoundness 
of  its  reasoning,  rises  far  superior  to  any  such  shallow 
doctrines  as  Christianity  has  to  offer.  Buddhism  is  sub- 
lime in  the  extreme.  Nevertheless  I  venture  to  think  that 
its  influence  as  a  religious  system  has  been  inferior  to  that 
of  Christianity.  No  doubt  it  may  have  beeri  influential  in 
olden  times ;  but  I  do  not  think  it  has  much  influence 
in  our  own  day.  Perhaps  this  insufficiency  arises,  not 
from  any  defect  in  Buddhism  itself,  but  from  a  paucity  of 
suitable  men  among  those  who  direct  its  affairs.  How 
this  may  be,  I  know  not.  But  this  I  know : — Christianity 
has  enormous  influence  in  Europe  at  the  present  day. 
True,  this  influence  is  no  longer  what  it  once  was,  but  it 
is  still  great.  Most  Europeans,  even  those  belonging  to 
the  upper  classes,  still  believe  in  Christianity.  Christianity 
is  the  foundation  on  which  the  sentiments,  the  thoughts 
of  Europeans  mostly  rest, — the  mother  by  whom  those 
sentiments,  those   thoughts  were  given  birth  to.     Thus 

san  nai  tame  ka  mo  shiremasen*  But  thus  to  repeat  in  a  final  clause 
the  idea  of  the  first  clause  (here  Kono  Bukkyo  no  kono  no  usui  no  wa) 
is  quite  consonant  to  Japanese  methods  of  thought  and  expression. 
In  such  cases  either  the  first  clause  or  the  last  must  be  dropped  from 
the  English  translation.  Observe  the  difference  between  ka  mo  shire- 
maseUf  at  the  end  of  this  sentence,  meaning  "one  cannot  know  whe- 
ther," here  freely  rendered  "perhaps,"  and  kashirimasen  immediately 
below,  meaning  "  I  know  not." — 20.  Shinzuru  is  slightly  bookish  for 
shinjiru.  Similarly  below  we  find  benzuru  for  henjiru  ;  conf.  IT  353,  p. 
220. — 


444  LECTURES. 

aru  tnono^^,  Shikashi  gakusha  no  setsu  de  wa^  **  ShUkyo 
wa  kono  ga  nai.  yimmin  no  kifHya  shiso  wo  umi-dasu 
kono  wa  nai  mono  de  aru''  to  iu  ga, — watakushi  wa 
sonna  chikara  no  usui  mono  to  wa  minai.  Shikashu 
.  chikara  ga  usui  to  ka,  takusan  aru  to  ka  iu  koto  wa, 
konnichi  koko  de  benzuru  koto  wa  dekimasen  kara, 
okimashlte^^f  tada  watakushi  wa  shukyo  wa  zuibun 
chikara  no  aru  mono;  so  shite  kokumin  no  kifuya  shiso 
no  6i  naru  genso  ni  natte  iru  mono  to  kangaeru.  Yoroppa 
de  wa,  joto-shakwai  to  iedomo^^,  konnichi  seiryoku  wo 
motte  iru.  So  iu  tokoro  no  keiben  kara^^,  Yasokyo  ga 
ichiban  kono  ga^^  aru  mono  de  aru  to  watakushi  wa 
omou. 

21.  Supply  desu,  *'  it  is." — 22.  Okimashite=*^  leaving  that  aside." — 
23.  To  iedomo  here=<f^  mo,  "  even  (in)."  This  is  an  idiom  borrowed 
from  the  Written  Language. — 24.  **  Qudging)  from  the  convenience 


LECTURES.  445 

great  has  been  its  influence.  It  is  true  that  the  learned 
deny  this  influence,  and  assert  that  religion  is  powerless 
to  produce  thoughts  and  sentiments.  But  I,  for  my  part, 
cannot  regard  it  as  so  powerless  a  thing.  Be  this  as  it 
may,  I  cannot  at  this  time  and  in  this  place  discuss  the 
question  as  to  the  degree  of  power  which  it  may  or  may 
not  possess.  I  will,  therefore,  only  advance  my  personal 
opinion,  which  is  that  religion  has  considerable  power, 
that  it  is  indeed  a  prime  factor  of  national  sentiment  and 
national  thought.  Its  force  is  felt  in  Europe  at  the  pre- 
sent day,  even  in  .the  upper  classes  of  society.  These 
advantages  it  is  that  lead  me  to  regard  Christianity  as,  of 
all  religions,  the  one  that  produces  the  greatest  effects. 

of  such  things  "  (tokoro), — 25.  No  would  here  be  more  regular,  as  the 
phrase  is  an  attributive  one  ;  see  ^  206,  p.  1:38.  Ga  is,  however,  some- 
times exceptionally  used. 


f  466-  ^'SHINREI-JO  NO  KYOGU."^ 

(ISE  TOKIO  SHI  NO  SEKKYO 
NO  UCHI.) 


Chikagoro  Seiyo  ni  shinkwaron  ga  sakan  ni  okotte, 
kono  tenchi  hamhutsu  ga  deki,  kono  yo  no  naka  ga  deki- 
agattaru  ho-ho  wo  toki-akashimasuru .  Sono  setsu  ni 
yotte  mireba,  kono  sekai  ni  wa  hajime  wa  shigoku  tanjun 
naru  seibutsu  shtka  arimasenanda  g-a, — sore  ga  tehito 
no  kydgu  no  hataraki  wo  uke,  ima  no  fukuzatzu  naru 
kono  uruwashiki  sekai  wo  tsukuri-dashimashita.  Kono 
tekito  no  kyogu  to  wa,  sunawachi  shizen46ta  jano^ ,  shiyu- 
tota  jano  to  iu  mono^  ga  arimasu.  Yusho-reppai,  tekh 
shU'Seizon  to  iu  koto  ga  arimasu.  Subete  kore-ra  seibutsu 
no  hattatsu  shinkwa  ni  tekito  naru  kyogu  to  iu  koto  wo 
kotnaka  ni  setsumei  shitaru  mono^  de  arimasu,  Ima  kono 
kyogu  no  hataraki  wa,  tada  do-shoku-butsu^  no  nikutai 
no  ue  nomi  narazu,  mata  watakushi-domo  no  chishtki  no 
ue  ni  totte  kangaete  mo,  hanahada  akiraka  ni  wakari- 
masu.     Gakusha  to  gujin  ga  dekiru  no  mo,  sono  kyogu 

I.  Written  with  the  Chinese  characters  O  Bf  Jb  ©  JS  jS-  This 
sermon  was  recently  printed  in  the  first  number  of  a  Christian 
magazine  entitled  ''Hankyoy'^  ov  "The  Echo."  It  somewhat  ap- 
proaches the  Written  Language  in  its  style.  Thus  we  find :  in  line  3, 
agattaru  for  agatta ;  lines  5  and  6,  naru  for  na ;  line  7,  uruwashiki  for 
uruwashii ;  line  i  of  p.  448,  seshimeta  for  saseta^  etc. ;  furthermore  the 
constantly  recurring  use  of  the  indefinite  form  at  the  end  of  clauses, 
as  deki  in  line  2,  correlated  with  deki-agattaru  in  the  next  clause* 
Here  are  (for  the  benefit  of  the  student's  Japanese  teacher)  the  Chinese 
characters  with  which  the  most  difficult  words  in  this  sermon  are 
written  i-^shinkwarbn,  Jj|ffc|S|, "  the  doctrine  of  twolution;"  f&kuzatsu. 


SPIRITUAL  ENVIRONMENT. 

{EXTRACT  FROM  A  SERMON  BY  THE 
REV.  ISE  TOKIO.) 


Of  late  years  wide  credence  has  been  given  in  Western 
countries  to  the  doctrine  of  evolution,  which  explains  the 
method  whereby  heaven  and  earth  and  all  that  there- 
in is  arose, — the  way  in  which  the  world  was  finished. 
According  to  this  theory,  the  world  at  first  contained 
none  but  the  simplest  types  of  life,  which,  thanks  to  the 
action  of  a  suitable  environment,  resulted  in  the  formation 
of  our  present  complicated  and  beautiful  world.  The 
suitable  environment  in  question  includes  such  things  as 
natural  selection  and  sexual  selection,  such  facts  as  the 
struggle  for  existence  and  the  survival  of  the  fittest. 
The  theory  explains  in  detail  the  conditions  of  environ- 
ment which  are  favourable  to  the  development  and  evolu- 
tion of  living  beings.  Now,  this  action  of  the  environ- 
ment is  exercised  not  only  on  the  bodily  frames  of  animals 
and  plants.     It  is  as  clearly  to  be  traced  in  the  develop- 


I,  "  complicated;"  shizen-tota,  @  ^  JS  t^»  **  natural  selection  ;  '* 
shiyu-tota,  flSttJB  tfc»  **  sexual  selection  ;'*  yusho-reppaiy  SK  ^  Kt» 
"struggle  for  existence"  (including  the  idea  of  the  survival  of  the 
fittest) ;  tekishu-seizony  |g  l||  ^  ^,  **  survival  of  the  fittest ;"  and,  close 
to  the  end,  jika-tochaku,  jS  ScSt#»  "self-confutation." — 2.  Jano hs 
the  Kyoto  equivalent  of  the  dano  explained  on  pp.  77-8. — 3.  Mono  in 
this  sentence  is  equivalent  to  koto  in  the  next.  The  author  was  per- 
haps led  to  this  somewhat  exceptional  use  of  mono  by  an  instinctive 
dislike  to  the  repetition  of  too  many  koto''s  in  succession. — ^4.  This 
mono  means  the  doctrine  of  evolution. — 5.    Short  for  dohutsu  shoku- 


44^  A   SERMON. 

ikan  ni  yotte  6i  ni  sadamaru  koto  de,  itna  koko  ni  onaji 
saichi  onaji  rikiryo  wo  tnotte  oru  kodomo  wo  totte,  hitori 
wa  goku  inaka  no  shimbun  wo  miru  koto  mo  nai  chiho  ni 
oki ;  mata  hitori  wa,  kore  wo  totte^,  hummei  no  chushin 
to  iu  Tokyo  ni  oki,  tsui  ni  daigaku  ni  irete  shugaku 
seshimeta  naraba,  go-nen  ka  roku-nen  no  nochi  ni  wa, 
kono  futari  no  chishiki-jo  hotondo  ten-chi  no  chigai  ga 
dekiru  koto  de  arimasu,     {Churyaku' ,) 

Yo  no  naka  no  hito  ga  moshimasuru  ni,  watakiishi  wa 
yoi  koto  wo  shitai  to  iu  kangae  gajubun  ari ;  watakushi 
ni  wa  zen  wo  nashitai  to  iu  negai  ga  jubun  ari ;  wata- 
kushi no  okonai  wo  mite  mo,  watakushi  wa  kakubetsu 
warui  koto  wo  shite  oru  to  wa  omoimasen.  Sude  ni 
watakushi  no  kokoro  ni  ryoshin  ga  atte,  watakushi  ni 
zen  wo  susume,  aku  wo  imashimemasu  kara,  sono  ryoshin 
no  sashizu  wo  niotte  ikeba,  betsu  ni  Seisho  wo  yomazu, 
betsu  ni  inori  wo  shinakute  mo  yoroshii  to  iu  is-shu  no 
kangae  ga  gozaimasu.  Sate  kono  kangae  wa,  Nihon 
nomi  ni  okonawarete  oru  chiisai  mono  ka  to  iu  ni,  Seiyo 
no  mottomo  bummei  naru  Doitsu,  Igirisu  ni  oite  mo 
okonawaruru  tokoro  no  mono  de  aru,  Shukyo  wa  iranai, 
sekkyo  wo  kiku  koto  wa  iranai,  Seisho  wo  yomu  koto  wa 
iranai,  tada  watakushi  no  kokoro  de  warui  koto  wo  shina- 
kereba  yoroshii  to  moshimasu.  Do  de  arimasho  ka? 
Koko  ni  goku  chiisai  htto-tsubu  no  shii  no  mi  ga  dete 
kite  mosu  ni,  **  Watakushi  wa  watakushi  no  uchi  ni  kano 
kodai  naru  sora  ni  sobiyuru  shii  no  ki  to  naru  no  chikara 
wo  motte  ori,  kore  to  naru  keikwaku  wo  sonaete  oru  ga 
yue  ni,  betsu  ni  taiyo  ni  terasarenai  de  mo  yoroshii,  ame 
ni  awazu  to  mo  yoroshii,  tsuchi  no  naka  ni  ne  wo  habi- 
korasenai   de  mo  yoroshii "   to   iwaba,   mina  sama   wa 

6.  Lit.  **  as  for  again  one,  having  taken  him  '*  (kore)* — 7.  This  word  is 


A   SERMON.  449 

ment  of  our  intelligences.  The  environment  it  is,  which 
chiefly  determines  whether  a  man  shall  be  learned  or 
ignorant.  Take  two  children  of  equal  intelligence  and 
ability.  Set  down  one  of  them  in  a  place  where  there  is 
not  so  much  as  the  poorest  provincial  newspaper  to  be 
seen.  Take  the  other,  and  set  him  in  TCky6,  the  centre 
of  enlightenment ;  let  him  finish  his  studies  at  the  uni- 
versity, and  in  five  or  six  years  there  will  result,  in  the 
intellects   of  these  two  youths,  a  difference  almost   as 

great  as  that  which  divides  heaven  from  earth 

People  declare  themselves  to  be  full  of  good  resolves, 
full  of  yearnings  after  virtue,  and  incapable,  on  self- 
examination,  of  discovering  anything  particularly  repre- 
hensible in  their  actions.  Their  hearts,  say  they,  have 
a  good  conscience,  which  recommends  virtue  to  them, 
and  restrains  them  from  vice, — a  conscience  which,  if 
they  follow  its  dictates,  obviates  all  special  need  of 
reading  the  Bible  and  engaging  in  prayer.  Nor- is  such 
a  way  of  thinking  an  insignificant  exception  confined  to 
Japan.  It  is  to  be  found  in  the  most  civilised  countries  of 
the  West, — in  Germany  and  in  England.  There,  too, 
men  are  apt  to  say  that  there  is  no  use  in  religion,  no  use 
in  hearing  sermons  preached,  no  use  in  reading  the  Bible, 
and  that  nothing  is  required  beyond  good  intentions. 
Now,  my  brethren,  how  would  it  strike  you,  if  a  tiny 
acorn  were  to  come  and  tell  you  that  it  contained  in  itself 
the  capacity  for  growing  into  one  of  those  gigantic  oaks 
which  rear  their  heads  to  the  skies,  and  that,  as  its  design 
was  to  become  such  a  one,  it  had  no  special  need  of 
being  shone  on  by  the  sun,  no  need  of  being  moistened 
by  the  rain,  no  need  of  spreading  its  roots  into  the  soil  ? 

used,  as  a  row  of  stars  or  dots  is  with  us,  to  show  that  a  passage  has 


450  A   SERMON. 

kofe  wo  matte  ika  nam  koto  to  nasaruru  ka  ?  Sadamete 
^^Koman  ni  mo  hodo  ga  aru.  Negau  dake  de  wa, 
mokuteki  wa  tasserarenai  "  to  oseraruru  ni  chigai  nai, 

Oyoso  hito  wa^  ika  nam  hito  nite  mo,  toki  to. shite  zen 
wo  nashitai  to  iu  negai  wo  okosan  mono  wa  arimasen. 
Ano  Ishikawa  Goemon^  mo,  issho  no  uchi  ni  wa,  kanarazu 
zen  wo  nashitai  to  iu  nen  wo  okoshita  koto  ga  am  ni 
chigai  nai.  Shikashi  kanji  ga  okotta  kara  to  itte^, 
zennin  to  wa  mosaremasen.  Ware-ware  mo,  toki  to 
shite  wa,  hijo  ni  shinkorshin  ga  okori,  Seisho  wo  yomazu 
ni  oraren  koto  ga  arimasu,  Shinja  no  hito  to  maji- 
warazu  ni  oraren  to  iu  koto  ga  arimasu.  Shikashi 
kanji  ga  okotta  kara  to  itte^,  rippa  naru  Kami  no  shinja 
to  wa  mosaremasen.  Tada  ni  kokorozashi  dake  de  wa 
yaku  ni  wa  tatan.  Kanji  dake  de  wa  mokuteki  wa 
tasseraren.  Kore  wo  yosei  shi,  kore  wo  hattatsu  seshi- 
muru  ni  tekito  naru  kyogu  ga  hanahada  hitsuyo  de  ari- 
masu. Shukyo  wa  iranai,  Seisho  wa  iranai  to  iu  hito- 
hito  wa,  dare  ka  to  iu  ni, — sono  hito  ga  mottomo  shin- 
kwaron  wo  tonaete,  yoki  kyogu  ga  nakereha  dobutsu  mo 

.  shokubutsu  mo  ningen  mo  dekinai  to  iu  hito  de,  gakko  wo 
omonji,  shomotsu  mo  omonzuru  tokoro  no  hito  de  arimasu. 
Kare-ra  wa  tada  dotoku-jo,  shinko-jo  no  koto  ni  kagiri, 

.  zenryo  naru  kyogu  wa  iranai  to  iimasu.  Yo  no  naka  ni 
jika-tochaku  to  iu  koto  ga  oku  arimasu  ga, — kore  yori 
hanahadashtki  osoroshiki  jika-tdchaku  wa  arumai  to  omoi- 
masu. 

been  omitted.  It  signifies  literally  "abbreviating"  (i.  e.,  dispens- 
ing with) ,  rjya^w ;  "the  middle,"  cAm. — 8.  A  notorious  highwayman 
of  the  latter  part  of  the  sixteenth  century.    He  suffered  the  penalty 


A   SERMON.  451 

What  would  you  think  of  this  ?  Most  assuredly  you 
would  say  that  even  conceit  has  its  limits,  and  that  the 
forming  of  a  wish  by  no  means  entails  reaching  the  goal. 
There  are  none  among  the  sons  of  men  who  do  not 
occasionally  form  virtuous  resolves.  Doubtless  Ishikawa 
Goemon  himself  formed  virtuous  resolves  some  time 
during  the  course  of  his  life.  But  good  impulses  cannot 
be  said  to  constitute  a  virtuous  man.  We  ourselves 
occasionally  experience  an  extraordinary  ardour  of  belief, 
an  extraordinary  craving  to  read  the  Bible,  an  irresistible 
attraction  towards  the  society  of  believers.  But  such 
good  impulses  cannot  be  said  to  constitute  us  exemplary 
believers  in  God.  A  mere  intention  is  of  no  use.  A  mere 
intention  will  not  make  us  attain  to  the  goal.  It  is  essen- 
tial that  we  should  be  placed  in  an  environment  calculated 
to  foster  our  good  intentions  and  develop  them.  Who  are 
the  men  who  say  that  religion  and  the  Bible  are  useless  ? 
They  are  th&se  self- same  ones,  who,  holding  firmly  to 
the  doctrine  of  evolution,  and  asserting  that  neither 
animals,  plants,  nor  human  beings  can  develop  without 
a  favourable  environment,  lay  the  greatest  stress  on 
schools  and  on  book-learning.  It  is  only  in  matters  of 
faith  and  morals  that  they  assert  the  uselessness  of  a 
virtuous  environment.  Numerous  as  are  the  instances 
which  the  world  affords  of  self-confutation,  surely  there 
never  was  a  more  extreme,  a  more  terrible  instance  of 
self- confutation  than  this. 

of  his  innumerable  crimes  by  being  boiled  to  death  in  a  cauldron  of 
oil.  The  scene  of  the  execution  was  the  dry  bed  of  the  river  Kamo 
at  Ky5to. — 9.  For  this  idiom  see  IT  118,  pp.  80 — 81. 


A  WORD  ABOUT  POETRY. 


IF  467.  With  very  few  exceptions,  all  the  Japanese  poetry  that 
is  esteemed  by  the  educated  is  written  in  the  Classical 
language  of  a  thousand  years  ago.  Even  the  ditties  sung 
by  singing-girls  to  the  twanging  of  the  banjo  are  usually 
more  or  less  Classical  in  diction.  Hence  it  is  difficult  to 
find  verses  written  in  the  Colloquial  that  shall  be  worthy 
to  place  before  the  student.  The  following  specimens 
are  therefore  offered  with  some  diffidence.  The  chief 
positive  characteristics  of  Japanese  poetry  are : 

I.  Its  lines  of  five  syllables  and  seven  syllables.  This 
is  the  basis  on  which  all  the  known  varieties  of  the  stanza 
are  raised. 

II.  Its  extreme  shortness, — three,  four,  or  five  lines 
constituting  an  entire  poem. 

III.  The  tersenisss  of  the  style,  the  poetical  sentence 
often  having  no  verb  and  being  in  fact  rather  an  exclama- 
tion than  an  assertion.  These  lilliputian  poems  remind  a 
European  of  the  sketches  in  which  a  Japanese  artist  will 
represent  a  flight  of  cranes  passing  before  the  moon,  or  a 
bamboo  swaying  in  the  wind,  with  but  half-a-dozen  bold 
touches  of  the  pencil. 

The  chief  negative  feature  of  Japanese  poetry  is  the 
absence  of  rhyme  and  of  quantity.  Long  vowels,  diph- 
thongs, and  syllables  ending  in  n  or  m  do  indeed  count 
double;  but  that  is  because    they   were   originally    pro- 


POETRY.  ^'     -  '^  453 

nounced  separately,  and  are  still  figured  separately  in 
the  Kana  writing. 
IT  468.  Here  is  a  miniature  ode, — what  is  called  a  hokku, — 
by  the  poetess  Chiyo,  who  flourished  in  the  last  century : — 

(5)     A  saga o  ni 

(7)         Tsurube  toraretCy 

(5)     Moral -mi zu  ! 

lit.  **  Having  had  my  well-bucket  taken  away  by  the  con- 
volvuli, — gift-water!"  The  meaning  is  this: — Chiyo, 
having  gone  to  her  well  one  morning  to  draw  water, 
found  that  some  tendrils  of  the  convolvulus  had  twined 
themselves  around  the  rope.  As  a  poetess  and  a  woman 
of  taste,  she  could  not  bring  herself  to  disturb  the  dainty 
blossoms.  So,  leaving  her  own  well  to  the  convolvuli, 
she  went  and  begged  water  of  a  neighbour, — a  pretty  little 
vignette,  surely,  and  expressed  in  five  words.  Whether 
the  circumstance  actually  occurred  or  not,  we  cannot 
undertake  to  say ;  for  Japanese  poets  are  as  much  given 
to  the  invention  of  apocryphal  esthetic  incidents,  as  our 
own  rhymsters  of  an  earlier  generation  were  to  the  inven- 
tion of  non-existent  Chloes  and  Amelias. 

IT  469.  Here  is  a  hokku  by  the  most  famous  of  all  kokku- 
writers,  Bash6,  a  poet  of  the  latter  part  of  the  seventeenth 
century.  It  is  entitled  Getsu-zen  no  Hototogisu^  or  "  The 
Cuckoo  in  Front  of  the  Moon,'*  and  is  as  follows  : — 

(5)     HitO'koe  wa, 

(7)         Tsuki  ga  naita  ka  ? 

(5)     Hototogisu  I 

lit.  *'  As  for  the  single  note,  did  the  moon  sing? — Cuckoo!'* 
The  poet  means  that,  startled  by  the  note  of  the  cuckoo, 


454  POETRY. 

he  looked  up  in  the  direction  whence  it  came, — to  see, 
however,  no  cuckoo,  but  the  brightly  shining  moon. 
Could  it  then  be  the  moon  that  was  the  songstress  ?  No, 
it  must  be  the  cuckoo  after  all. 
IF  470.  Japanese  poets  are  fond  of  jokes,  puns,  and 
whimsical  notions.  The  already  mentioned  Basho  was 
riding  along  a  country  lane  one  day,  when  his  groom, 
who  afterwards  rose  to  be  the  well-known  poet  Kikaku, 
espied  a  red  dragon-fly,  and  cried  out  in  verse 

(jI    Aka-tombo — 

(7)         Hane  wo  tottara, 

(5)     Togarashi  / 
i.e.,  "  Pluck  off  the  wings  of  a  red  dragon-fly,  and  you 
.  have  a  cayenne  pepper-pod."     But  Basho  reproved  him 
for  so  cruel  a  fancy,  and  corrected  the  verse  thus : 

(5)     Togarashi — 

(7)         Hane  wo  tsUketara, 

(5)     Aka-tombo/ 

i.e.,  "  Add  wings  to  a  cayenne  pepper-pod,  and  you  have 
a  red  dragon-fly." 
IT  471.  The  following  kyoka,  or  "  comic  poem,"  of  thirty-one 
syllables,  contains  a  pun  on  the  words  go-bii  go-bii^  **  five 
parts  and  five  parts,"  i.e.,  **half  and  half,"  and  goburgobu, 
an  onomatope  for  the  gurgling  sound  made  by  a  liquid  in 
issuing  from  a  bottle  : — 

(5)  Kimi  mo  nomiy 

(7)         Boku  mo  nomu  kara^ 

(5)  Wari-ai  mo 

(7)         Go'bu  gO'bu  to  tsugi- 

{7)        Dasu  taru  no  sake  / 


POETRY. 


45$ 


This  may  mean  either :  "  Oh !  the  liquor  from  the  cask, 
poured  out  in  equal  halves  because,  as  you  are  drinking 
^nd  I  too  am  drinking,  proportion  must  be  observed,"  or 
"  Oh !  the  liquor  from  the  cask  poured  out  gurgle-gurgle, 
because,  etc." 
IT  472.  The  following  contains  no  pun,  but  has  a  delicate 
touch  of  satire : 

(5)     Hototogisu 

(7)         y^y^  jizai  ni 

(5)    Kiku  sato  wuy — 

(7)         Saka-ya  ni  ^p-ri, 

(7)         Tofu-ya  ni  ni-ri! 
I.e.,  "The  village  where  one  may  list  undisturbedly  to  the 

cuckoo's  song  is three  leagues  from  the  grog-shop, 

and  two  from  the  bean -curd  shop !" — Notice  in  passing 
that  this  stanza  of  thirty-one  syllables  is  the  vehicle  of 
the  greater  portion  of  the  Classical  poetry  of  Japan. 

H  473.  The  dodoitsu  generally  consists  of  three  lines   of 
seven  syllables  and  one  of  five.     Take,  for  instance. 


7)  Hito  wa  suki'Zuki, 
Soshiru  wa  yaho  yo  / 
Horete    iru    ucha^^ 

5)       Aki-mekura. 

7)  Shote   wa  jodaft, 
7)  Nakagora    giri    de, 
7)  Ima  ja  tagai  no 
5)       yitsu    to   jitsu. 

7)  Konna  kokoro  ni 
Shlta  no    mo    omae, 
Ima-sara  a  kite   wa, 

5)      Kawaiso. 


So  many  men,  so  many 
tastes.  To  blame  is  clownish. 
He  who  is  in  love  is  blind, 
, though  possessed  of  eyes. 

At  first  'twas  a  joke,  in  the 
mid-time  a  duty,  but  now  it  is 
true  love  on  both  sides.* 


You  it  is  who  have  put  my 
■  heart  in  this  state.     For  you 
to  weary  of  me  now  is  cruel.' 


I.  For  uchi  wa.    Such  contracted  forms  in  a  are  common  in  the 
popular  poetry.    In  the  next  poem  we  find  nakagora  for  nakagoro  wa. 


456  POETRY. 

IF  474.  Occasionally  the  dodoitsu  h^s  five  lines,  thus : 

/  \       tc  zr        J  I     Even  a  board  stuck  up  and 

H  T,  \  r''          J''  ,     inscribed  with  the  words  "  It 

7    Katahu  oru-naK'  to  .^  ^^^.^^    prohibited  to  pluck 

7    lu  tate.fuda  mo,  \^        blossoms"  is  usel^s  as 


(7)  Yomenu  kaze  ni  wa 
(5)      Zehi  mo  nashi.^ 


against  the  wind,  which  can- 
not read. 


11  475.  We  will  end  up  by  a  longer  poem  of  a  form  called 
Sendai-bushiy  which,  though  containing  two  or  three 
Book  Language  forms,  is  otherwise  easy.  It  is  put  into 
the  mouth  of  one  who  was  exiled  to  a  small  island  beyond 
the  stormy  reach  of  sea  called  the  Genkai-Nada,  to  the 
North-West  of  Kyushu : — 


(7)  Tori  mo  kosanai 

(7)  Genkai'Nada  wo 

(8)  Yarareru  kono  mi  wa,^ 
(5)      Itowanedo, — 

(7)  Ato  ni  nokorishi'' 
(5)      Tsuma  ya  ko  wa, 
(7)  Do   shite  tsuki-hi  wo 
(5)     Okuru  yara^? 


I  care  not  for  myself,  who  am 
sent  across  the  Genkai  Sea  over 
which  even  the  birds  do  not 
^pass.  But  the  wife  and  child- 
ren who  have  remained  be- 
hind,— how  may  they  be  spend- 
ing the  months  and  days  ? 


2.  It  is  to  be  understood  that,  though  no  longer  enamoured  of  bis 
choice,  the  lover  had  remained  faithful  to  her  through  a  feeling  of 
honour, — a  feeling  which  was  rewarded  by  the  eventual  growth  of 
solid  mutual  affection. — 3.  In  thft  little  book  from  which  this  verse  is 
taken,  there  is,  opposite  the  lines,  a  picture  of  a  girl  weeping  and 
stretching  out  imploring  hands  to  a  man  who  is  turning  his  back  on 
her. — ^4.  Lit.  "positively  break  not  I"  kataku  being  equivalent  to 
kesshite. — 5.  Equivalent  (o  shlkata  ga  nai. — 6.  This  line  has  eight 
syllables  instead  of  seven,  by  a  poetical  license. — 7.  Nokorishi  is  Class- 
ical for  nokotta. — 8.  Yara  comes  from  ya  aran,  which  is  equivalent 
to  the  Colloquial  de  aro  ka  ? 


f  476. 


VOCABULARY 


ALL  THE  JAPANESE  WORDS 

OCCURRING  IN  THIS  WORK. 

{A  II  verbs  are  of  the  1st.  conjugation,  unless  marked  2,  3,  or  irregular.   Com- 
pound verbs  are  given  under  their  fitst  member,  as   mi-sokonau  under 
miru.    When  several  references  to  pages  are  given,  the  most  important 
reference  is  placed  first.) 
A  AI 


ageru^  (2)  to  raise,  hence  to  give 

A. 

to    a    superior.     For  honorific 

use  of  ageru,  see  p.  244 — 5. 

aa!ora!ahl 

ahiru^  a  tame  duck. 

a,  like  that,  in  that  way:   a  im, 

ai,  a  verbal  prefix ;  see  p.  71. 

that  kind  of,  such  as  that. 

ai^  dark  blue. 

abayo^  goodbye  {in   baby   lan- 

ai,   (properly    ayu)    a    kind    of 

guage). 

trout. 

abiru,  (3)  to  bathe. 

aida^  an  interval,  time,  while  (see 

abu^  a  horsefly. 

p.  39):    aida-garay  connection, 

abunai,  dangerous. 

relationship:  aida  ga  ori-aima- 

abura^  a  general  name  for  all 

sen,  do  not  get  on  well  together. 

oil,  grease,  and  fat. 

ai-kawarazu,  without  change, 

achi  or  achira^  there. 

the  same  as  heretofore. 

ag^ri^  ascent,  produce. 

aikokushin^  patriotism. 

ageku  ni^  as  a  final  result,  at  last. 

ai-nikuii  coming  inopportunely, 

agaru^  to  rise ;  to  get  clear  (said 

happening  at  an  unlucky  mo- 

of the  weather) ;  also  to  take,  to 

ment. 

eat  or   drink   (honor.) :    agari- 

aisatsu^  salutation,  acknowledg- 

kotnu,  to  force  one's  way  up 

ment,  response,  answer ;  aisatsu 

into ;  agari-sagari  suru,  to  go  up 

surUf  to  salute,  etc. 

and  down.     For  agaru  honori- 

ai-SUman^ to  be  unpardonable. 

fic,  sec  pp.  245,  197. 

there  is  no  excuse  to  offer. 

AI 


[458] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


AN 


aisuru,  (in-eg.)  to  love. 

akiitO,  a  villain. 

aita!   or   aitatal    oh  I    how 

ama,  a  (Buddhist)  nun. 

painful ;  see  p.  231. 

axnai,  sweet. 

aite,  a  party  (to  a  transaction), 

amami^  a  tinge  of  sweetness. 

an  antagonist  (at  a  game),   a 

amari;   too  much,  too;  (with  a 

companion. 

negative)  not  very. 

ajiwai,  taste,  flavour. 

axnaru,    to    exceed,    to    remain 

akagane,  copper. 

over. 

akai,  red,  brown. 

ambai,     way,     manner,     bodily 

akambO,  a  baby. 

feelings :   ambai  ga  warui,  I  feel 

akami,  atingeofred. 

unwell;    do    iu    ambai?   how? 

akari,  a  light. 

yoi  ambai  niy  fortunately. 

akami,  light  (not  dark). 

ame,  rain :  ame  gafuru,  to  rain ; 

akegata,  dawn. 

ame  ni  narUy  to  come  on  to 

akeru,   (2)  to  open  (trans.);  to 

rain. 

begin    (intrans.), — said  of    the 

ame,  a  kind  of  sweetmeat  made 

New  Year. 

of  fermented  grain. 

aki,  autumn. 

Amerika,  America,  the  United 

aki-mekura,  one  who  is  blind. 

States:    Amerikajin,   an   Ame- 

but has  his  eyes  open. 

rican  ;  Amerika  no,  American. 

akinai,  trade,  commerce. 

amma,  a  shampooer. 

akinau,  to  trade. 

an^  an  opinion,  a  case,  a  point, 

akindo,  a  merchant,  a  dealer. 

a  draught,  a  bill. 

akippoi,  easily  wearied,  fickle. 

ana,  a  hole,  a  cave,  a  tunnel. 

akiraka  (na),  dear,  evident. 

anadoru,  to  jeer,  to  revile. 

akke  ni  torarera,  (2)  to  be 

anata,  you ;  see  pp.  44,  233. 

amazed,  thunder-struck. 

andon,    a    lamp    (of   the     old- 

akkO,  bad  or  scurrilous  language, 

fashioned  Japanese  style,  with 

abuse. 

paper  sides). 

akU;  evil,  vice. 

ane,  an  elder  sister. 

aka,  to  open  (intrans.),  to  become 

ani(ki),  an  elder  brother;  conf.  p. 

vacant :  aite  iru,  to  be  open,  to 

250. 

be  unoccupied,  not  used. 

ani,  a  negative  particle;  see  p. 

akura,    the    Classical    form    of 

165. 

akeru,    to   open,   still   used   in 

anjira,  (3)  to  be  anxious. 

such  expressions  as  akuru  hit 

anna,    that    kind    of,    such   as 

the  next  day. 

that. 

AN 


[459] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


AS 


annai,  guidance,  knowing  one's 

ari-awaae-mono^      anythmg 

way  about,  a  guide :  annai  suru^ 

that  there  may  happen  to  be. 

to  guide. 

ari-gachi,  apt  to  be. 

anO,  that  (adj.):    ano  hitOt  he, 

arigatai,  thankful  (said  both  of 

she ;  ano  ne  1  see  p.  233. 

the  person  who  feels  thankful, 

anshin,    mental    ease:    anshin 

and  of  the  thing  for  which   he 

surUf  to  feel  at  ease. 

is   thankful);   hence  sometimes 

an-yO,  the  feet,  to  walk  (in  baby 

beneficent :  arigato  {gozaimasu). 

language). 

thank  you ;  conf.  p.  249. 

aoi,  green,  blue. 

arimasii,  see  p.  215. 

aOrUy    to    slam   backwards   and 

ansama,  a  state,  condition. 

forwards;   (intrans.) — said  of  a 

aritei,  the  facts  of  a  case. 

door. 

aru,  (irreg.)   to  be;  see   pp.   166, 

aO-SUJi,  blue  lines,  e.  g.,  on  the 

215,   2i6,   124:  de  arut  see  p. 

forehead. 

216:   ari  no  mamay  see  p.  74. 

arafseep.  231. 

Sometimes  aru  means  a  certain, 

arai,  rough. 

some,    as    in    aru    toki,    on    a 

arare,  hail. 

certain  occasion,  sometimes. 

araserareru,  (2)  to  be,  hence 

aruji,  the  master  of  a  house,  a 

to  go  (very  honorific);  conf.  p. 

host. 

146. 

aroka,  to  walk. 

arashi,  a  storm,  a  typhoon. 

aru-nashi,  see  p.  33. 

arasoi,  a  dispute. 

asa,    the   morning:  asa-gaoy  the 

arasou,  to  dispute. 

morning  glory,  or  convolvulus  ; 

aratamara,    to    be     renewed, 

asa-han,  breakfast. 

overhauled,  altered,  rectified. 

asagi,  light  blue,  light  green. 

aratamera,  (2)  to  renew,  over- 

asatte,   the    day   after    tomor* 

haul,  alter,  rectify. 

.      row. 

arau,  to  wash. 

ase,  perspiration :  ase  ga  deru^  to 

arawareru,    (2)    to   show    or 

perspire  ;  ase  ni  naru^  to  get  into 

reveal  oneself,  to  appear. 

a  perspiration. 

arawasu,  to  show,  to  reveal. 

asebo,  prickly  heat. 

arayuru,  see  p.  419,  note  9. 

ashi)  the  foot,  the  leg:  ashl  no 

are,  that  (subst.) ;  see  pp.  49,  46: 

yubiy  the  toes ;  0  mi  ashi^  see  p. 

are  hodo,  as  much  as  that ;  are 

243. 

kara^  after  that. 

ashlta,    to-morrow;    ashtta    no 

ari,  an  ant. 

asttf  to-morrow  morning. 

AS 


I  460] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH    VOCABULARY. 


BA 


asobasUy  an  honorific  equiva- 
lent of  the  verb  sum,  to  do  ;  see 

.     P-  245- 
asobi,  a  game. 
asobu,  asubQ;  to  play,  to  amuse 

oneself. 
asukO;  there:  asUko  kara^  thence; 

asiiko  ycy  thither. 
asiikoera,  thereabouts. 
atai,  price,  value. 
atama^  the  head :  atama-kabuse^ 

and  atama  kara  kogoto  wo  iu, 

see  p.  418,  note  6. 

atarashii,  new. 

atari,      neighbourhood,     hence 

near,  on  or  about, 
atarixnaC;  ordinary,  generally: 

atarimae    no,    usual,     natural, 

proper, 
ataru,  to  hit  the  mark,  also  to 

be  near,  as  hi  ni  ataru,  to  sit 

near  the  fire :  ni  atatte,  just  at ; 

dochira  ni  atatte  ?  where  ? 

atatameru,  (2)  to  warm. 

ate,  reliance:  ate  ni  naru^  to  be 
reliable;  ate  ni  suru,  to  rely 
on. 

ateru,  (2)  to  apply  one  thing  to, 
or  use  it  for,  another ;  to  bit :  ate- 
hameruy  to  allot,  to  assign  ;  haze 
wo  ateru y  to  have  it  windy, 

atO,  traces,  effects,  a  sign,  be- 
hind, afterwards,  the  rest:  ato 
dey  afterwards ;  ato  no,  the  re- 
maining, other;  atosaki,  the 
context,  circumstances. 

atsui;  hot. 


atsai,  thick. 

atsusa,  beat,  the  degree  of  heat. 

atsusa,  thickness,  the  degree  of 
thickness. 

atsukaa,  to  manage,  to  have 
charge  of. 

atsumaru,  to  collect  (intrans.). 

atsumera,  (2)  to  collect  (trans.). 

atsuraeru,  (2)  to  order  {e.  g. 
things  at  a  shop). 

au^  to  meet,  to  agree,  to  suit;  see 
also  p.  245^  ante  ni  au,  to  get 
rained  upon ;  hidoi  me  ni  au,  to 
experience  cruel  treatment:  hi- 
doi me  ni  awaserut  to  treat 
cruelly. 

awa,  millet. 

awase-mono,  something  ar- 
tificially joined  together. 

awaseru,  (2)  to  cause  to  meet, 
hence  to  add. 

awatadashii,  flurried. 

awateru,   (2)  to   be    flurried,— 

especially  from  fright. 
ayamatsu,  to  make  a  mistake, 
ayu,  a  species  of  trout. 
azana,  a  nickname. 

B. 

ba;  a  place; — used  only  in  com- 
position, as  furo-ba,  a  bath- 
place. 

ba  (auxil.  numeral),  see  p.  107. 

ba,  (conditional  termination)  see 
p.  163. 

baba,  an  old  woman  (rude), 

bai,  double;  see  also  p.  115. 


BA 


[  461  ] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


BI 


baka,  a  fool:  baka  i.a^  or  baka- 

rashii,    foolish;    htto    wo    baka 

ni  suru,  to  make  a  fool   of   a 

person. 
bakari,    about,    more    or    less 

(bookish) ;  only. 
bake(-mono),  any  supernatural 

and  uncanny  creature,  a  ghost, 

a  goblin. 
bakiichi;  gambling. 
bambutsu,  all  things,  nature. 
bamxne,  a  word  used  to  form 

ordinal  numbers;  see  p.  112. 

bam-meshi,     supper,     (late) 

dinner. 

ban,  a  myriad,  ten  thousand} 
also  used  as  a  pluralising  prefix, 
as  ban-jiy  all  things. 

ban,  a  night,  an  evening. 

baH;  number  (so-and-so);  seep. 
112. 

banchi,  the  number  (of  a  house 
in  a  street). 

bane,  the  springs  (of  a  carriage, 
etc.). 

banji,  all  things,  everything. 

bankokU;  all  countries,  inter- 
national: bankoku  kdhot  in- 
ternational law. 

bantd,  a  head  clerk  or  manager. 

banzuke^  a  programme. 

bara,  a  thorny  bush,  hence  a 
rose-bush. 

bara-bara,  helter-skelter. 

bari,  an  insult,  abusive  language. 

basha,  a  carriage. 

baSSUrU,  (irreg.)  to  punish. 


baya,  an  old  lady,  grandmamma 

(in  baby  language). 
bebe,  clothes  (in  baby  language). 
bei,  (vuig.  for  beshi)  see  p.  119. 
Beikoku,  America,  the  United 

States  (learned  style). 
beki,  see  pp.  119,  129. 

benjiru,  (3)  to  discuss. 

benjO,  a  water-closet. 

benkd,  eloquence :  benko  no  yoi, 
eloquent,  glib. 

benkyO;  diligence. 

benri;  convenience :  benri  no  yoi 
or     benri    (na),    convenient, 

•     benri  no  warui^  inconvenient; 

bentd,  food  carried  with  one, 
e.  g.  luncheon  for  a  picnic. 

beppin,  lit.  another  quality; 
hence  a  superior  article,  (hence 
metaphorically)  a  pretty  girl. 
In  this  last  sense  the  word  is 
a  trifle  familiar  or  slangy. 

berabd(-nie)^  a  scoundrel. 

berumottO,     vermouth     (from 

the  European  word). 
beshi,  see  p.  119. 
betsU,    a    difference;    betsu   ni, 

differently,  specially ;   betsu  no, 

different,     other ;     betsu-zumai, 

living  apart. 

betsudan  (no,)  special. 

bettaku,  a  villa. 

betto,  a  groom. 

biiru,  beer  (from  English). 

bijin,  a  belle. 

bijutsu,  the  fine  arts. 

bimbo,  poverty :  bimbo  na,  poor. 


BI 


JAPANESE- 


-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


BY 


bin,  a  bottle. 

BnkkyO,  Buddhism. 

bin,  the  Japanese  cue. 

Bukkyo,  a  Buddhist  sutra.  (The 

birddo,  velvet. 

kyo  of  this  word  is  written  with 

bo,  a  bludgeon,  a  stick. 

a    different    Chinese    character 

bdeki,  trade. 

from  the  kyo  of  the  preceding 

bOenkyO,  a  telescope. 

one.) 

boki,  book-keeping. 

bmnmei,    enlightenment,    civi- 

boko, violent  conduct. 

lisation;    bummei  na,   civilised, 

boka,  a  servant,  (hence)  I. 

cultured. 

bok^shi,  a  pastor,  a  clergyman. 

bumpO,  grammar. 

bokiitO,  a  mock  sword  made  of 

bun,  a  part. 

.wood. 
Bbu,  a  tray. 

Buppo,  Buddhism. 

bura-bora,     in     a     sauntering 

bont^n-Obi,  a  kind  of  cheap 

manner. 

striped.i)elt  worn  by  coolies  and 

burei,  rudeness ;  buret  na,  rude ; 

servants.  \ 

go  burei  J  see  p.  241. 

bon-yaii,    \q    onomatope    for 
obscurity,  tec^imr  di^ss :  bon- 
yari  suru,  to  feel  dui^r  dazed. 

buri,  a  suffix  signifying  bearing. 

gait. 

bdsan,  a  Buddhist  priest. 

remissness   in   paying   a   visit: 

bdsbi,  a  hat. 

go  busata,  see  p.  241 ;  wataku- 

botan,  a  peony.                  :^ 
botan,  a  button  (from  EngHp^ 

shi  ni  bnsata  de,  without  letting 

me  know. 

botchan,  a  little  bpy  ?  see  pi  234. 

bushi,  a  warrior. 

boy,   a  house-servant,    a    valet 

buta,  a  pig. 

(from  English). 

butsu,  to  beat,  to  strike :  buchi- 

bozu,  a  Buddhist  priest  (rude). 

korostit  to  beat  to  death ;  buchi- 

bu,  a  copy  of  a  book. 

taosu,  to  knock  down. 

bu,  a  part,  see  p.  115. 

buttsiikeru,  (2)  (for  buM-tsuke- 

buchohO,     awkwardness :     bu- 

ru)  to  bump. 

choho  tuij  aN^kward. 

buttsuri  to,  slashmgly. 

budO,  grapes :  budd-shuy  wine. 

byabu,  a  screen. 

buji,    no    accident,      safe     and 

bydin,  a  hospital. 

sound. 

bydki,  a   disease:    byoki     (na). 

buki,  a  weapon. 

ill,  sick. 

bukku,  a  European  book,  conf.  p. 

bydnin,  an  invalid,  a  patient. 

6. 

bydshin,  a  weakly  body. 

CHA 


[463] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


CHO 


C. 

ChCl,  tc^ ;  cha-nomi'jawan^  a  tea- 
cup ;  cha-ya,  a  tea-house ;  cha  wo 
ireruj  to  make  tea. 

cha,  (termination  of  the  emphasis- 
ed gerund),  see  pp.  162,  177. 

ChaktiSUru,  (irreg.)  to  arrive. 

Chan,  baby  language  for  San, 
Mr.,  Mrs.,  or  Miss. 

ChantO,  quietly:  chanto  shita, 
quiet. 

Chawan,  a  tea-cup,  a  bowl. 

Chaya,  a  tea-house. 

Chi,  blood :  chi  ga  deru,  to  bleed 
(intrans.) ;  chi-gatana,  a  blood- 
stained sword. 

Chi-banare,  weaning  (of  an 
infant). 

chichi,  a  father ;  but  see  p.  250. 

chichi,  the  breasts ;  hence  milk, 

chie,  intelligence,  cleverness. 

chiftlSU,  typhus;  see  p.  25. 

Chigai,  a  difference,  a  mistake: 
chigai  nai,  there  is  no  doubt. 

chigQiU,  to  differ,  to  be  mistaken, 
to  be  the  wrong  one. 

chihO,  a  direction,  a  district,  a 
locality. 

chiisai  or  chiisa  na,  small: 

chiisaku  naru,  to  crouch. 
ChikagOrO,  recently. 
Chikai,  near  :  chikni  uchty  soon. 
Chikara,   strength:   chikara  wo 

tsukusUf   to   do  one^s   best,  to 

endeavour. 


Chikazuki,  friendship,  an  in- 
timate friend. 

Chiktlba,  a  sort  of  toy  stick  on 
which  children  ridea-cock-horse: 
chiktlba  no  tomOf  a  friend  from 
childhood  upwards. 

chikiishO,  a  brute  animal,  a 
beast. 

chin,  a  Japanese  pug.  (Pugs  are 
not  included  under  the  generic 
term  /«;<,  dog.). 

chira-chira,  fiutteringiy. 

Chirasu,  to  scatter  (as  the  wind 

does  dead  leaves). 
chiri,  dust. 
chirimen,  crape. 
Chiru,  to  fall  (as  leaves  or  as 

the  petals  of  flowers). 
Chishiki,  talent,  wisdom, 

chishitsu-gaka,  geology. 

ChisO,  a  stratum  (of  earth). 

dhisQ,  (generally  with  the  honor- 
ific g'o  prefixed)  a  feast. 

Chi(t)tO,  see  choiio, 

chd,  an  auxiliary  numeral;  see 
p.  105. 

chd,  a  butterfly. 

Ch6,  a  measure  of  distance  equival- 
ent to  about  1 20  yards  English. 
There  are  36  chd  in  the  official  H 
or  league.  Cho  also  means  street 
or  ward:  ni-chome,  the  second 
ward  (of  such  and  such  a  street). 

cho,  a  million. 

chOai,  love :  chdai  suru,  to  love. 

ChOchakU  SUrU,  (»nreg.)  to  give 
a  thrashing,  to  beat. 


CHO 


[464] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


DA 


Chdchin,  ^  lantern. 
chOchd,  a  butterfly. 
ChO-chO,  an  onomatope  for  the 

sound  of  beating. 
ChOdai  Sara;  (i^reg.)  to  receive 

respectfully ;  conf.  p.  245. 
ChQdO,  just,  exactly. 
ChOhO,  convenience:  chohO  na, 

convenient,  useful. 
Ch0i-Ch0i(t0),    little    by   little, 

just  a  little. 

choito,  choto,  chottOjChitO; 

or  chittO,  just  a  little,  a  trifle : 
choito  shitaj  slight,  trifling. 

chOjd;  the  summit  of  a  mountain. 

Chokki,  a  waistcoat. 

Chosen,  Korea. 

Chdteki,  a  rebel. 

cho(t)tO,  see  choito. 

Ch5y0,    age;   see  p.  427,    note 

5- 
Choza,  sitting  long,  paying  an 

interminable  visit:  choza  suru^  to 

pay  too  long  a  visit. 
ChOzU,  water  to  wash  the  hands 

with :  chozu-ba,  a  water-closet ; 

chozu-hachi    or  chozu-darai^  a 

washband-basin. 
chU,  in ;  conf.  p.  142. 
Chu,     loyalty    (to    a    superior): 

cku  wo  tsukttsu,  to  behave  with 

perfect  loyalty. 
ChOgen,  a  samurai's  retainer  of 

the  lower  sort. 
Chugi,  loyalty ;  conf.  cha, 
chUi,  attention,  care :  chui  suru, 

to  pay  attention. 


ChOjO;   a  general  or  admiral  of 

the  second  rank. 
ChUkO,  the  Middle  Ages. 
Chtunon,   an   order   (e.g.    at   a 

shop) :  chumon-ddrif  as  ordered. 
chUryaka,  see  p.  448,  note  7. 
chtLshi,  cessation,  stoppage. 
chtLshin,  the  centre. 
chUshin,  a  loyal  retainer. 
chtitO,  second  class,  middling. 

D. 

da,  see  pp.  216 ;  62,  145,  166. 
dai,   great,   big,   very.     Used  in 

compounds,  as  dai-kirai,  greatly 

disliking. 
dai,  a  word  used  to  form  ordinal 

numbers,  see  p.  112;  dai  ichini, 

in  the  first  place. 
dai,  the   auxiliary    numeral    for 

vehicles. 
dai,  a  reign,  a  generation, 
daibu,  a  good  deal. 
daichi,  the  ground. 
daidai,  an  orange  (hard -skinned 

sort). 
daidokoro,  a  kitchen. 

_    .**  ,       'la  university. 

daigaka,   ) 
daigennin,  a  lawyer. 

daiji,  importance:  daiji  na,  im- 
portant; daiji  ni  suru,  to  take 
great  care  of. 

daijin,  a  minister  of  state. 

dajjoba  (na),  all  right,  safe  and 
sound. 


DA 


[465] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH    VOCABULARY. 


DE 


daikai,  the  ocean. 

daikon,  a  large  species  of  radish. 

daiku,  a  carpenter. 

daimyo,  the  title  of  a  class  of 

nobles  in  feudal    times;    conf. 

p.  7. 
dairi,  a  substitute :  dairi'ininjot  a 

power  of  attorney. 
dai-siiki,  very  fond. 
daitai,  the  general  character  of 

a  thing,  its  main  features. 
daitoryo,  a  president,— of  the 

United  States,  etc. 

dajaka  (na),  indolent. 

dake,  only,  about,  as as. 

damam,  to  keep  silence. 

damasu,  to  cheat. 

dampan,  deliberation,  con- 
sultation. 

dan,  a  step :  dan-dan,  gradually ; 
see  also  p.  336,  note  22. 

dangi,  a  speech,  a  sermon. 

dangO,  a  kind  of  dumpling. 

dangO,  consultation :  dango  sum, 
to  take  counsel. 

danjiru,  (3)  to  consult. 

danna;  a  master:  danna  san 
sometimes  means  you,  see 
p.  45.     ' 

dano,  a  postposition ;  see  p.  77. 

danshi,  a  male  child,  a  man. 

darake,  a  suffix  meaning  smeared 
or  covered  with,  as  chi-darake, 
blood-smeared;  dorodarake,z\\ 
covered  with  mud. 

dare  ?  who  ? — dare  ka,  dare  mo, 
dare  de  mo,  see.  p.  45. 


darO,  see  pp.  216;  145,  186. 

dasU;  to  take  out,  to  put  outside ; 
see  also  p.  212. 

dashimono,  something  put 
forth,  a  show. 

datta,  see  pp.  216;  62,  145,  186. 

datte !  see  p.  402,  note  4. 

de,  a  postposition  ;  see  pp.  60,  43, 
134,  230  :  de  aru,  de  arimasu,  and 
de  gozaimasUy  see  pp.  62,  216; 
de  gozaimas&  no,  see  p.  78;  de 
mo,  see  pp.  52,  92,  182 ;  de  motte, 
see  p.  71 ;  de  wa,  see  pp.  62,  94. 

de-gUChi,  an  exit,  the  way  out. 

de-iri,  the  entree  to  a  house :  de- 
iri  no  isha,  a  family  physician. 

de-kakera,  (2)  to  start  off. 

de-kata,  a  troupe  of  actors. 

deki,  (generally  with  honorific 
prefix  o),  or  dekimono,  any- 
thing which  comes  out  on  the 
skin,  as  a  boil,  a  sore. 

dekiru,  (3)  to  come  out,  etc.; 
see  p.  197:  deki-agaru,  to  be 
finished, ready. 

dembata,  landed  property. 

dempO,  a  telegram. 

denseiabyOy  an  infectious  dis- 
ease. 

denshin,  telegraphy :  denshin- 
kyoku,  a  telegraph-office. 

deru,  (2)  to  come  out  of,  to  issue 
forth,  to  go  out :  de-au,  to  meet 
out  of  doors,  to  encounter ;  de- 
kakeru,  to  go  out. 

deshabaru,  to  stick  out,  to  ob- 
trude (intrans.). 


DE 


JAPANESE- 


-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


DO 


deshi,  a  pupil,  a  disciple. 

deahita,  see  p.  217. 

deshd,  see  p.  217. 

desii,  see  pp.  62,  217,  145 :  desu 
ga,  see  p.  296. 

dO;  (concessive  termination),  see 
p.  163. 

do,  a  time  (une  fois) :  ichi-do, 
once. 

dd,  same,  e.g.  dojitsu,  the  same 
day  ;  doyo,  the  same  manner. 

dOP  how?— do  de  mOt  anyhow; 
du  itashimashitet  see  p.  295,  No. 
3  ;  do  iu  ?  what  kind  of  ?  what 
like  ?  do  (ni)  ka,  ko  (ni)  ka,  see 
p.  311,  No.  7;  do  shite  mo,  do 
what  you  will,  in  any  case;  do 
suru?  what  to  do?;  do  shtta 
ftion*  da  ?  see  bottom  of  p.  311. 

dobu,  a  ditch. 

dObntsU,  an  animal. 

dOChiP  or  dOChiraP  where? 
sometimes  which  ? — for  this 
word  with  *a,  mo,  or  de  mo  add- 
ed, see  p.  50. 

dodoitsu,  a  kind  of  popular 
song ;  see  p.  455. 

ddgi,  a  motion  (at  a  public  meet- 
ing, etc.). 

doga,  a  utensil;  ddgu-ya,  a 
second-hand  shop,  a  dealer  in 
second-hand  wares. 

DoitSU,  Germany :  Doitsujin,  a 
German  ;  Doitsu  no,  German. 

doka,  please ;  but  see  p.  249. 

dokkoisho !  see  p.  231. 

dokoP    where?   doko    ka,   doko 


mo,  doko  de  mo,  see  p.  50  ;  doko 
kara  ?  whence  ?  doko  made  ?  how 
far  ?  doko  made  mo,  see  p.  69. 

dokoeraP  whereabouts  ? 

dokoro,  see  p.  41. 

dokU;  poison:  doku  ni  naru,  to 
be  unwholesome. 

dokii8llin(-mono),  a  bachelor. 

dOXnOj  a  pluralising  particle ;  see 
p.  28. 

do(mo),  (concessive  termina- 
tion), p.  163. 

domofseep.  231. 

dOIli  bang :  don  to,  with  a  bang- 
ing noise. 

dOUata  P  who  ? — donata  ka,  do- 
nata  mo,  donata  de  mo,  see  p.  50. 

donna P  what  kind  of?  what 
like?  donna  ni.,.mo,  however 
much. 

dono  P  which  ?  (adj.) :  dono  ku- 
rai?  how  much? 

dono,  Mr.  (in  Book  Language). 

dore  P  which  ?  (subst.) :  dore  ka, 
dore  mo,  dore  de  mo,  see  p.  50 ; 
dore  hodo  ?  how  much  ? 

dOri,  reason. 

dorO;  mud:  doro-ashi,  muddy 
feet;  doro-darake,  all  muddy; 
doro-michi,  a  muddy  road. 

dorobo,  a  thief. 

dOsnra,  (irreg.)  to  be  agitated. 

dote,  an  embankment,  a  bank. 

dOtOka,  morality:  dotoku-tetsu- 
gaku,  moral  philosophy. 

doya-doya,  tumuituousiy. 

Doyobi,  Saturday. 


DO 


JAPANESE- 


[467I 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY, 


FU 


dOZd;  a  mud  godown. 

eshakU;  an  apology,  a  bow :  esha* 

ddZO,  please ;  but  see  p.  249. 

ku  wo  suru,  to  bow,  to  apologise. 

Ezo,  the  island  of  Yezo. 

E. 

F. 

ftl,  two  (in  enumeration). 

elehleh? 

miohl 

e,  a  picture. 

ftlben,      inconvenience :     fuben 

e,  an  inlet  with  a  stream  running 

na,   inconvenient 

into  it. 

ftlda,  a  ticket. 

ebi,  a  prawn. 

fadan,     the    ordinary    routine: 

eda,  a  branch  of  a  tree,  river,  etc. 

fudan  no,  usual,  common. 

egakU,  to  paint  pictures. 

ftlde,   a  pen:  fude-sashi,  a  pen- 

ei!ahlohi 

stand. 

Ei(koku),  England. 

ftldOsan,    immovable    property 

ekaki,  a  painter. 

(for  instance,  land). 

empitsu,  a  pencil. 

ftieru,  (2)  to  increase  (intrans). 

empd,  a  long  way  off:  empo  net. 

fafil,  husband  and  wife :  /fi^a/fi- 

distant. 

/«,  two  married  couples. 

en,  ^yen  or  Japanese  dollar. 

f\]Jl^  the  wistaria  plant. 

embifuku,  a  swallow-tail  coat. 

ftljin,  a  lady. 

engawa,  a  verandah. 

Fl]ji(-san),  Fusiyama. 

engaxni;  marriage. 

ftljiytl,  inconvenience  ifujiya  na. 

en-kin,  distance,  how  far  ? 

inconvenient. 

enkO;  to  sit  (in  baby  language) ; 

filkai,  deep. 

see  p.  234. 

fiikeiki^  hard  times,    depression 

ennichi;  a  festival  day  ;  hence  a 

of  trade. 

fair. 

fukeru,  (2)  properly  to  deepen, 

enryo,  diffidence :  enryo  sum,  to 

but  scarcely  used  except  in  yo 

be  diffident. 

ga  f&keru,  to    become  late  at 

ensoku,  an  excursion,  a  picnic. 

night]  toshi  ga  fukeru,  to  grow 

enzetsu,  a  lecture  :  enzetsu  suru, 

old.  Also  to  be  steeped  in  (e.g. 

to  lecture. 

in  wine  and  lust). 

erai,  wonderful,  able,  very. 

fukU,  an  auxiliary  numeral ;  see 

era,  (2)  to  get ;  conf.  p.  194. 

p.  106. 

eru,  to  choose  :  eri-dasu,  to  select 

fuku,  to  blow  (e.g. 'the  wind): 

from  among  several. 

fUki-mawasu,  to  blow  round. 

FU 


JAPANESE- 


[468] 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


FU 


fakU,  to  wipe. 

filkainU;  to  contain,  to  include. 

ftlkurasU^  to  distend,   to  swell 

(trans.). 
fQkurO,    a    bag:    0    fukuro,    a 

mother,  but  see  p.  251. 
fiikazatsa,  a  medley,  a  complica- 
tion: fukuzatsu  na^  disorderly, 

complicated. 
fambetsU;  discrimination. 
fumu,  to  tread   (on):  fumi-shi- 

meru,  to  tread  firmly. 
ftux^  a  fraction,  a  tenth  part,   a 

minute  :  ju-gofun,  a  quarter  of 

an  hour. 
f\lXie,  any  kind  of  boat  or    ship : 

fune  ni  you^  to  be  sea-sick. 
AininjOi  unkindness. 

(ftm)kwaaan,  a  volcano. 

FuransU,  France:  Furansujin, 
a  Frenchman;  Furansu  no, 
French. 

ftireru,  (2)  to  touch  ;  hence  to  in- 
fringe. 

furi,  a  fall  (of  rain  or  snow). 

fari,  airs,  gait,  pretence. 

ftiro,  a  bath:  furo-ba,  a  bath- 
place,  a  tub. 

fhrokkU-kdtOy  a  frockcoat 
(from  the  English  word). 

fUrOshlki,  a  cloth  used  to  wrap 
up  parcels  in. 

fam,  to  fall, — said  only  of  rain, 
snow,  hail,  etc.:  furi-dasu,  to 
come  on  to  rain,  etc. ;  furi-kome- 
rareruj  to  be  kept  indoors  by  rain 
gr  snov/\  furi'komu,  to  come  into 


the  house   (said  of  rain,    etc.). 

f\iru^  to  brandish,  to  wave:/«r»- 
mukuy  to  turn  and  face. 

ftirue-gOe,  a  quivering  voice. 

ftiruerU;  (2)  to  quiver,  to  trem- 
ble. 

ftiroi,  old  (said  only  of  things) : 
furu-dogu,  an  old  utensil  or 
curio. 

HiruU,  to  shake  (trans.). 

fusagaru,  to  be  obstructed,  to 
be  quite  full. 

fiiseru,  (2)  to  He  down,  to  go  to 
bed. 

fasetsu,  rumour,  report. 

fushigi,  a  strange  thing,  a  mir- 
acle ifushigi  na,  strange. 

fQsllin,  building:  fushin-chu, 
while  building,  while  under- 
going repairs. 

fushinsetsu  (na),  unkind. 

fushdchi,     dissent,      objection : 

fushochl  wo  iUy  to  object. 
ftusiike,  whisky  (from  English). 
futa,  a  lid. 
fiitagO,  twins. 
fiitari,  two  persons:  ffktari-mae, 

portions  for  two. 
futa(tBU),      two :       futatsunu, 

second;  futatsu   tnitsu,  two  or 

three :  futatsu  oki,  every  third 

(lit.  leaving  out  two). 
futO,  suddenly,  accidentally. 
fatodoki  (na),  insolent, 
faton,  a  bed-quilt, 
ftitoru,  to  grow  fat :  futotta,  fat. 
fQtsU  (no),  usual,  general. 


FU 


[  469  ] 
JAPANESE— ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


GI 


fdtsugd;  inconvenience :  futsugo 
na,  inconvenient ;  less  often  im- 
proper. 

flltsiika,  two  days,  the  second 
day  of  the  month ;  futsuka-me, 
the  second  day ;  futsUkayoi,  the 
day  after  a  carousal. 

FatsfikokU,  France. 

ftiyasii,  to  increase  (trans.). 

ftiyu,  winter. 

fuzai,  not  at  home,  absent. 

ftiZOka,  manners,  customs. 

G. 

ga,  a  postposition  ;  see  pp.  63,  86, 

136,  138, 181,  221. 
gachO,  a  tame  goose. 
gake,  a  talus,  a  precipice. 
gake,  while,    during,    as    kaeri- 

gake,   while    returning,  on   the 

way  back. 
gakkari;   a  sort    of  onomatope 

for  bodily  exhaustion. 
gakko,  a  school. 
gakkwa,   a  subject,  or   line    of 

study. 
gaku,  science,  learning. 
gaka,  a  tablet,  a  picture  (oblong 

and  hard). 
gakumon,  study,  learning  :  ga- 

kumon  suruy  to  study. 
gak^sha,  a  learned  man. 
gakiishi,  a  graduate. 
gakiitai,  a  band  of  music. 
gaxnan,  patience:  gaman  suru^ 

to  be  patient. 
gail|  a  wild-goose. 


gara,  a  suffix;  see  p.  312,  foot- 
note 18. 

garasu,  glass  (from  the  Dutch). 

gam,  a  verbal  suffix ;  see  p.  130, 

Gasshakoku,  the  United  States. 

gasii,  see  p.  62. 

gata,  a  pluralising  particle;  see 
p.  28. 

gaten,  comprehension,  acquies- 
cence: gaten  sum,  to  compre- 
hend, to  acquiesce;  gaten  no 
ikauy  incomprehensible. 

gatera,  while,  as,  by  way  of. 

gedai,  a  title;  conf.  p.  342,  foot- 
note 30. 

gei,  an  accomplishment,  a  trick. 

geisha,  a  singing-girl. 

gejo,  a  maid-servant. 

genan,  a  man-servant. 

gen-an,  the  draft  of  a  document. 

gen-in,  cause,  origin. 

genkin,  ready  money. 

genkotsu,  the  knuckles. 

genkwa(n),  the  entrance  to  a 
house,  a  porch. 

genso,  an  essence,  an  element, 
a  factor,  an  atom. 

genzai,  the  present  time. 

geri,  diarrhoea. 

gero,  a  (low-class)  manservant. 

gesii,  see  p.  62. 

getsu,  a  month;— used  only  in 
compounds,  as  ik-ka-getsu^  one 
month. 

Getsuyobi,  Monday. 

gi,  duty,  signification,  affair. 

gichO|  a  chairman,  a  president. 


GI 


[470] 
JAPANESE — ENGUSH   VOCABULARY, 


GU 


gimon,  a  question. 

gimu,  duty,  an  obligation. 

gin,  silver, 

ginks,  a  bank  (for  money)  :^i«- 

■    ko'shihei,  a  bank-note. 

giri,  duty,  right  or  proper  feeling. 

giri,  only ;  see  kiri, 

giyaman,  glass  (the  material). 

go,  five. 

go,  an  honorific  prefix;   see  pp. 

239.  139. 

go,  after :  sono  go^  since  then. 

go,  the  game  of  checkers :  go  wo 
utsuj  to  play  at  checkers. 

go,  a  designation,  a  name,  a  num- 
ber. 

go,  a  district. 

gobn-gobu,  an  onomatope  for 
the  gurgling  sound  made  by  a 

.    liquid  when  poured  out. 

gOChi8d,  a  feast. 

gOgo,  the  afternoon. 

Gto-gWatSU,  May. 

gohan,  rice,  food. 

gO-ishi,  a  counter  at  checkers. 

gO-JQ,  (Sffir),  the  five  cardinal 
virtues,  according  to  Confucius, 
viz.,  jifiy  giy  ret,  chi^  shin, 
i.e.,  benevolence,  righteousness, 
propriety,  wisdom,  and  sinceri- 
ty. 

go-ja,  fifty. 

goke^  a  widow. 
goka,  extremely,  very. 
gOkurakU,  paradise. 
Go-kyO,  see  p.  420,  note  10. 

gomen,  (properly  go  men),  Ht. 


august  pardon:    gomen    nasdi, 

please  excuse  me. 
gomi,  dust  (on  things). 
gondaiytl,   the   title  of  a  high 

official  of  former  times,  a  kind  of 

vice-minister. 
Go-on,  see  p.  7. 

goran  nasara,  (irreg.)  to  deign 

to  look;  conf.  pp.  12  and  245. 

Occasionally  goranjiru  (3)occur8 

in  the  same  sense. 
goro,  time,  about,  as    kono  goro, 

now;  san-ji-goro,    about     three 

o'clock. 
gO-rokU,  five  or  six. 
gOsho,  a  palace. 
gOSii,  see  p.  62. 
goten^  a  palace. 
gotoki,    like,    such    as ;  see    p. 

118. 
goto  (ni),  a  suffix  meaning  each, 

every. 
GottO,  the    Christian  God;   see 

p.  6. 
goza,  rush-matting. 

''to  be ;  see  pp.  167, 


gozaimasii, 

gozarimasii, 

gozara, 


215  ;  62,  78,  117, 
121,125,126,137, 
186 :  de  gozai- 
mastt,  see  p.  216, 

^62. 


gozen,  boiled  rice,  (hence)  a  meal, 
gozen,  the  forenoon. 
ga,  stupid ;  see  p.  251. 
gujin,  a  dolt,  an  ignoramus. 
giunai,  stupid  and  ignorant. 
gumpuku,  military  uniform, 
gun,  a  district. 


GU 


[471] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


HA 


gunkan,  a  war -vessel. 

garari;  around. 

gasai,  my  wife ;  see  p  251. 

gushi,  (with  honorific  prefix  0), 
the  Court  word  for  hair. 

gatto,  tightly,  suddenly. 

gOZU-gllza,  a  word  descriptive  of 
the  sound  or  act  of  complaining 
or  scolding. 

gWaikokU;  foreign  .  countries, 
abroad :  gwaikoku-jin^  a  foreign- 
er ;  gwaikoku  no,  foreign. 

gwaimushd,  the  foreign  office. 

gwaito,  an  overcoat. 

gwanko  (na),  obstinate,  inve- 
terately  prejudiced. 

gwan-yaka,  a  pill. 

gwatsu,  a  month  ;  see  p.  114. 
gy5,  workt  business. 

gyanika,  beef. 

H. 

ha,  a  leaf  (of  a  tree). 

ha,  a  tooth:  ha-migaki,  tooth- 
powder;  ha  ga  itai,  I  have  a 
toothache. 

habakari,  shamefacedness, 

(hence)  a  water-closet. 

habakara,  to  be  ashamed,  to 
dread. 

habikoru,to  spread  (intrans.); 
to  get  disseminated. 

hachi,  a  bee,  a  wasp. 

hachi,  a  pot. 
hachi,  eight. 
Hachi-gwatsu,  August. 


hachi-Ju,  eighty. 
hachimaki,  a  handkerchief  tied 

round  the  head: — wo  suru,  to 

tie  a  handkerchief,  etc. 

hadaka  (na),  naked. 

hadan,  breaking  ofi[:  hadan  sum, 

to  break  off  (e.g.  intercourse). 
haeru,  (2)  to  grow  (intrans.). 
hagaki,  a  postcard. 

hagane,  steel. 

hagL,  the  lespedeza  shrub. 
haha,    a  mother;    but    see    pp. 

250— -I. 
ha-ha,  ho  I  oh  I  I  see. 
hai,   the    auxiliary    numeral    for 

cupfuls  of  liquid. 
hai,  a  fly. 
hai !  same  as  he  ! 

haiken  suru,  (irreg.)  to  look  re- 
spectfully at  something  belong- 
ing to  a  superior;  conf.  pp.  12 
and  245. 

hairi-kiichi,  an  entrance,  the 
way  in. 

hairu,  to  go  in ;  haitte  iru^  to  be 
.inside,  to  be  included. 

ha-isha,  a  dentist. 

haishakg  sura,  (irreg.)  to  borrow, 
see  p.  245. 

haitatsunin,  a  postman. 

haji,  shame,  humiliation:  haji  wo 
kaku,  to  be  put  to  shame. 

haji,  the  edge,  ledge,  or  end  of 
anything. 

hajimari,  the  beginning. 

hajimara,  to  begin   (intrans.). 

hajime,  the  beginmng. 


HA 


[472] 
JAPANESE— ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


HA 


hajimera,  (2)  to  begin  (trans.) ; 

conf.  bottom  of  p.  8g. 
hajimete;  (gerund  of  hajimem), 

for  the  first  time,  never  before : 

conf.  p.  334,  No.  20. 
haka,  a  tomb. 
haksuna,  a  kind  of  wide  trousers 

worn  in  half  full  dress. 
hakara,  to  weigh,  to  estimate,  to 

plot :  hakarazUf  unintentionally. 

haki-dame;  a  dust-heap. 

hakkiri  (to),  clearly. 

hako,  a  box. 

hakobu,  to  transport,  to  carry. 

haku,  a  count  (noble). 

baka,    to   spit,    to   vomit:    tan 

wo    haki-tsukeru ,  to  spit  on  a 

person. 
haka,  to  sweep. 
hakU,  to   wear   or   put   on  the 

feet  or  legs. 
hakubutsiikwan,  a  museum, 
hakumai^  hulled  rice. 
bakarai,  imported  from  abroad  : 

hakurai'hin,  an  imported  article. 
bakurankwai,  an  exhibition, 
bakiisbaka,  the  title   of  count, 
bama,  the  sea- beach,  the  strand. 
bambtUl,  half:    hatnbuH'Chigait 

a  difference  of  half. 

ba-migaki,  tooth-powder. 

baxnono,  a  blade. 

ban,  a  clan  (in  feudal  Japan). 

ban,  half:  han-nichiy  half  the 
day ;  han-nigori,  see  p.  22  and 
conf.  p.  20\  ja-ichi'ji  han^  half- 
past  eleven. 


ban,  rice,  a  meal. 

bana,  a  flower,  a  blossom :  hana- 
ike^  a  fiower-vase ;  hana-mi,  go- 
ing to  see  the  blossoms ;  hana- 
yomct  a  bride. 

bana,  the  nose:  hana-fiStkiy  a 
pocket-handkerchief;  kana  no 
sakif  the  tip  of  the  nose. 

banabada,  very :  hatuihada  mot- 
te,  see  p.  71. 

b<^Ttfthftd»-«^^^j  excessive,  ex- 
treme. 

banare-monO;  a  separate  or 
separable  thing. 

banareru,  (2)*  to  separate  from, 
to  part  with. 

h^Tif^^llj^  a  story,  a  talk,  some- 
thing  said  or  told:  hanashi  no 
tsuide^  apropos  of  something 
said. 

banasU;  to  speak,  to  tell :  hana- 
shi-kakerUf  to  break  off  in  the 
middle  of  saying  something. 

bane,  a  feather,  a  wring. 

ban-eri,  a  kind  of  kerchief,  used 
by  women  to  trim  the  front  part 
of  a  dress  near  the  neck. 

banem,  (2)  to  splash, — as  mud 
(intrans.) ;  to  cut  off, — as  a  bead 
(trans.). 

bankyO;  an  echo. 

bansbiy  a  common  kind  of  writing 
paper. 

bansbd,  a  fire-bell. 

baori,  a  sort  of  coat  worn  by  the 
upper  and  middle  classes  as  half 
full  dress. 


HA 


[473] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


HA 


happi,  a  kind  of  cheap  livery-coat 

hata,  a  flag. 

worn  by  servants  and  coolies. 

hatachi,  twenty  years  of  age. 

hara,  a  moor. 

batake,  a  vegetable  field. 

hara,  the  abdomen :  hara  ga  heru^ 

hataxnoto,  one  of  a   rank   in 

to  be  hungry ;  hara  ga  itau  to 

feudal  Japan  which  came  next 

have  a  stomach-ache;  hara  wo 

to  that  of  daimyo. 

taterUj  to  get  angry. 

hataraki,  work,  action.    . 

hara-kiri;  see  p.  33. 

hataraku,  to  work. 

haraU;   to   clear    away  (trans.) ; 

hate-na!    well    I    never!    how 

hence  to  pay. 

extraordinary ! 

harera,  {2)  to  clear  (iqtrans.),— 

hateru,  (2)  to  finish  (intrans.). 

said  of  the  sky  or  clouds. 

hatO|  a  pigeon. 

hari,  a  pin,  a  needle. 

hatstika,  twenty  days,  the  twen- 

hari-gami, a  paper  lable ;  hart- 

tieth  day  of  the  month. 

garni  wo  sum,   to  paste  on   a 

hatsumei,  an  invention,  a  dis- 

label. 

covery,,  inventive  genius. 

harigane,  wire. 

hattatsU;     development,      pro- 

hari-tsiike;   crucifixion:     hari' 

gress  :  hattatsu  suru^  to  develop 

tsike  ni  suru^  to  crucify. 

(intrans.). 

hara,  to  stick  (trans.). 

hattOy  an  onomatope  for  starting, 

hara,  spring(-time). 

— as  with  fright  or  sudden  recol- 

haraka,  afar. 

lectipn  of  something  forgotten. 

hasami,  scissors. 

haya-goshi;  see  koshi. 

hasamu,  to  cut  with  scissors. 

hau,  to  creep. 

haseili  shipwreck:  hasen  ni  au, 

hayai,  quick,  early. 

to  be  shipwrecked. 

hayari;    a  fashion:    hayari   no. 

hashi^  chopsticks. 

fashionable;  hayari-gi,  a  fashion- 

hashi^ a  bridge. 

able  craze. 

hashigOj  a  ladder :  hashigo-dan^ 

hayanii  to  be  wide-spread  (e.g. 

a  staircase. 

a  disease),  to  be  fashionable. 

hashira^  a  post;  also  the  auxi- 

hayaahi, a  forest. 

liary  numeral  for  Shinto  gods 

hayasU;  to  grow  (trans.), — e.g.  a 

and  goddesses. 

beard. 

hashiru,  to  run. 

haya-tsHkegii  a  lucifer  match. 

hasU  ni,  obliquely. 

hata,  the  side,— e.g.  of   a  canal 

conf.  p.  39, 

or  of  a  well. 

haaBiikashil,  bashful. 

HA 


[474] 

JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


HI 


hazukashisa,  bashfulness. 

hi,  one  (in  enumeration). 

hazure,  the  end  (e.g.  of  a  village). 

hibachi,  a  brazier. 

he!  hei!  or  hail  yes;  but  see 

hibashi,  fire-tongs. 

bottom  of  p.  2zS. 

hidari,  the  left  (side). 

hebi,  a  snake. 

hidoi,  harsh,  cruel :  hidoi  me  ni 

hei !  same  m  he/ 

au,  to  experience  harsh  treat- 

hei, a  hedge,  a  fence. 

ment;  hidoi  me  ni  awaseru,  to 

hei^  broken  down,  effete ;  see  p. 

treat  harshly. 

251. 

hiem,  (2)  to  be  cold. 

Heika,Your,  His,  or  Her  Majesty. 

higasiEt,  a  parasoL 

heikin^  an  average. 

higashi,  east:  kigashi-kitay  north- 

heisha, our  firm ;  see  p.  251. 

east  ;     higashi-minamij     south- 

heishi^ a  soldier,  troops. 

east. 

heisotsn,  a  common  soldier. 

hige,  the  beard :  hige  wo  hayasut 

heitaii  a  soldier,  troops. 

to  grow  a  beard. 

hempi^  out-of-the  way. 

hiji,  the  elbow. 

hempd^  requital:  hempd-gaeshi. 

hijO  (na),  unusual,  extraordinary. 

tit  for  tat. 

hikara,  to  shine,  to  glitter. 

hen^  a  change :  hen  na,  odd,  queer. 

hfVi^  an  auxiliarv  numeral:  see 

hen^  a  neighbourhood,  a  locality. 

p.  106. 

hen,  a  time  {une/ois). 

hlM-dashi,  a  drawer. 

hen,   a    section    of   a    book,    a 

hiki-fiida^  a  circular,  an  adver- 

treatise. 

tisement. 

henjli  an  answer. 

hi k1-Bhio,  low  tide. 

henkwa,  a  change. 

hikkomu,  to  retire  inside. 

hentO^  an  answer  :  hentd  sum,  to 

hikkonuki  sara,  (in-eg.)  to  draw 

answer. 

(a  sword). 

herasu,  to  diminish  (trans.). 

hika,  to  pull,  to  draw,  hence  to 

herU^  to  diminish  (intrans.). 

quote:  htki-dasut  to  draw  out; 

hem,  (2)  to  pass  through. 

hiki-nuku,     to    draw     (e.g.     a 

heta  (na)|  a  bad  hand  at,   un- 

sword); hiki-utsuru,  to  remove 

skilful. 

(intrans.),  to  change  houses. 

heya,  a  room,  a  cabin. 

hiked,  low. 

hi,  the  sun,  hence  a  day :  higa  ku- 

hikutsu,  servility:    hikutsu  na. 

reru,  the  day  is  waning,  dark- 

servile. 

ness  approacbingi 

hikyO,  cowardice :  hikya  nay  cow- 

hi, fire. 

ardly. 

HI 


[475  1 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


HO 


bima,  &n  interval,  leisure :  hima 
wo  yarut  to  dismiss,  also  to  al- 
low to  go  on  leave. 

hinata^  the  sun  (only  in  the 
sense  of  sunlight) :  hinata  ye 
hosUf  to  dry  in  the  sun. 

hinlrQ^  conduct :  hinko  no  »',  well- 
conducted,  moral. 

hipparikko  suru,(irreg.)  to  pull 

backwards  and  forwards. 
Hira-gana,  the  cursive  form  of 

the  Jap.  syllabary ;  see  p.  g. 
hirakera^  (2)  to  be  opened  out, 

to  become  civilised. 
lliraka^  to  open,  to  civilise. 

hirattai,  flat. 

hlroi^  broad. 

hiroi^  (with  prefix  o),  see  p.  235. 

hiroi-mono^  something  picked 
up,  a  find. 

hiroil^  to  pick  up,  hence  to  find. 

hiru,  (3)  to  dry  (intrans.). 

hira^  day-time,  noon ;  hiru  {-go- 
zen),  the  midday  meal,  luncheon. 

hirU-SUgi,  afternoon. 

hisashii,  long  (of  time). 

hisO  SUrU,  (irreg.)  to  guard 
jealously,  to  treasure  up. 

hiSUrU^  (irreg.)  to  compare. 

hissori  tO^  quiet,  deserted. 

hitai,  the  brow. 

hlto,  a  person,  a  human  being  ; 
conf.  p.  46 :  hito-garUf  personal 
appearance,  a  distinguished  air  ; 
hzto-goroshi,  murder,  man- 
slaughter, a  murderer ;  hito-me^ 
public  notice ;   htto-mezurashii. 


rare  (of  visitors,  etc.) ;  ano  htto^ 
he,  she. 

hitoe^  properly  one  fold;  hence 
single.  Hitoe  ni  sometimes 
means  earnestly,  only,  please. 

hitori^  one  person,  hence  alone : 
hitori-de  ni^  of  itself,  spontane- 
ously. 

hito(t8U)|  one ;  sometimes 
whole,  all,  same:  hlto-bmit  all 
night  long;  hUo-mey  one  look; 
hitO'tori,  generally ;  hitotsu  mi' 
chi,  the  same  road ;  hUotsu  oki, 
alternate. 

hitsuyO  (na),  indispensable. 

lliya,  cold;  hence,  with  the  honor- 
ific prefix  0,  cold  water  (so 
called  at  Court  and  by  women). 

hiyo^  the  Court  word  for  a  shirt. 

hiyori^  the  weather. 

hiza,  the  knee :  hiza  wo  tsMku,  to 
fall  on  one's  knees. 

ho,  a  sail :  ho-bashira^  a  mast. 

hd^  a  law,  a  rule,  a  usage. 

ho,  side ;  but  see  p.  140;  kogayoi 
(or  »'),  see  pp.  172,  249. 

hdbd,  on  all  sides,  everywhere. 

hdchO,  a  knife. 

hodo,  degree,  quantity,  proper 
limit,  about,  as  nan-ri  hodo? 
about  how  many  miles  ? — Also 
as  much  as,  conf.  pp.  11 1,  141, 
143  ;  hodo  naku,  forthwith. 

hoeru,  (2)  to  bark :  hoe-kakaru^  to 
spring  at  with  a  bark. 

hdgaka,  a  direction  (point  of  the 
compass). 


HO 


I  476] 
JAPANESE — ENGUSH   VOCABULARY. 


HY 


hohOloh! 

hora(-ana)  a  cave. 

hohO,  manner,  way,  rule. 

horeru,  (2)  to  be  in  love. 

ho-ho-ho !  the  sound  of  laughter. 

hori,  a  canal,  a  moat. 

llOka,    another    place,    besides, 

horimono,  a  carving. 

except :  no  hoka  nly  besides ; .. . . 

suru  ni  hoka  wa  nai^  there  is 

legal  studies. 

nothing  for  it  but  to;.../(oi<i  de 

horobira,  (3)  to  be  overthrown 

mo  nai  ga,  see  p.  297,  No.  26. 

or  ruined. 

hokennin,  an  underwriter. 

horobosu,  to  overthrow,  to  ruin. 

hokka,   a    stanza  of   seventeen 

bora,  to  dig,  to  excavate,  to  carve. 

syllables ;  see  p.  453. 

bdra,  to  throw. 

hoko,  a  fork  (from  the  English 

boshl,  a  star. 

word). 

bosbii,  desirous  ;  see  p.  63. 

hOkonin,  a  servant. 

bOSOi,  narrow:  hoso-nagai,  slen- 

hokori, dust  (in  the  air). 

der. 

hombuii,  regular  rain, — not  a 

boso,  small-pox. 

mere  shower. 

bOSSUrU,  (irreg.)  to  wish. 

home,  praise. 

bOBU,  to  dry  (trans.). 

homera^  (2)  to  praise. 

botarn,  a  fire-fly. 

hon,  a  book. 

botoke,  a  Buddha. 

hon,  an  auxiliary  numeral;  see 

botondo,  almost ;  (with  a  nega- 

p. 106. 

tive)  hardly. 

hone^  a  bone:  hone  ga  oreru  or 

bototOgisU,  a  cuckoo. 

hone    wo  oru^  to  take  a  great 

bdytl,  a  friend. 

deal  of  trouble. 

bdZU,  an  end,  a  limit. 

hongokn,  one's  native  country. 

byaka,  a  hundred :  hyaku-maui  a 

honO,  a  flame. 

million. 

honshd,  the  original  and  true 

byaku-manako,  a  sort  of  game 

character. 

or  show,  in  which  a  number  of 

bOntO,    truth:    honto    no,  true. 

masks  are  used. 

real. 

byaktisbd;  a  peasant,  a  farmer. 

hon-ya^  a  book-store,  hence   a 

byoban,  rumour,  report :  hydban 

bookseller. 

wo  suruj  to  gossip. 

hon-yaku,  a  translation:    hon- 

hyOgi,  a  conference. 

yaku  surUy  to  translate. 

byoro-byoro,  an  onomatope  for 

honzbll;  see  p.  440,  foot-note  12. 

staggering. 

lnOOf  a  phoenix. 

byorotsiika;  to  stagger. 

HY 


[  477  ] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH    VOCABULARY. 


IK 


hydtan,  a  gourd. 

I. 

i,  (oftener  ido)  a  well. 

ibi,  vulg.  for  yubif  a  finger. 

icikdf  one :  ichi-nim-biki,  pulled  by 
one  man;  ichi-nin-nori,  accom- 
modating ope  person. — Ichi  is 
used  idiomatically,  e.g.  in  ichi- 
batif  number  one,  but  also  first, 
most  (see  p.  142) ;  ichi-nichi^  one 
day,  but  also  the  first  of  the 
month,  all  day  long;  ichi-nichi 
oki,  alternate  days. 

ichK-ba),  a  market(- place),  a  fair. 

ichi-ban,  number  one,  first ; 
hence  used  as  a  prefix  to  indicate 
the  superlative. 

icbi-gai,  altogether. 

ido,  a  well. 

ie,  a  house :  ie  no  uchi,  indoors. 

ie^  no;  see  p.  228,. 

iedomO,  though ;  sometimes 
even. 

iezuto,  presents  brought  to  those 
at  home  by  one  returning  from 
a  journey. 

ifuku  ,a  garment. 

Igirisa,  England :  Igirisu-jin,  an 
Englishman;  Jgirisu  no,  Eng- 
lish. 

igO,  henceforward. 

ii,  a  corruption  ofyoit  good. 

ii-tsukeru,  (2)  to  order;  less 
often  to  inform. 

ii-y5,  a  way  of  saying. 


ijini,  to  meddle,  to  tease. 

]J5,  from  thence  upwards,  that 
and  upwards  (the  Japanese  ge- 
nerally reckoning  inclusively). 

ika  P  an  interrogative  word  found 
in  ikaga^  the  compounds  ika- 
hodo,  etc. :  ika  na  koto  ?  what 
sort  of  ?  what  ? 

ikaga  P  how  ? 
ikahodo  P  how  much  ? 

ikan  P  or  ikani  P  how  ? 

ikanimo,  yes,  certainly. 
ikari,  an  anchor. 
ikasu,  to  vivify,  to  free. 
ikenai,  (neg.  potent,  of  ikUf  to 

go)  "  is  no  go,"  won't  do. 
iki,  the  act  of  going,  the  way 

there. 
iki-gake,  while  going,    on    the 

way  to. 

iki-nari,  abruptly. 

ikioi,  strength,  force. 

ikiru,  (3)  to  live :  ikite  iru,  to  be 
alive. 

lit  Ira,  p  what  day  ?  such  and  such 
a  day. 

ik-kon,  a  glass  (of  wine.) 

ikaP  how  many?  iku  bun  ka, 
rather,  more  or  less;  iku-hon? 
iku-mai  ?  iku-nin  ?  iku-tabi  ? 
etc.,  see  p.  in. 

iku,  (irreg.)  tO  go ;  see  pp.  167,  245  : 
iki-aUf  to  chance  to  meet;  iki- 
chigau^  to  cross  and  miss  one 
another ;  ikl-kaeru^  to  go  and 
pome  back  again ;  iki-tagaru,  to 
want  to  go ;  iki-todoku,  to  reach. 


IK 


[478] 
JAPANESE — ENGUSH  VOCABULARY. 


IS 


to  be  effectual ;  itte  shimau,  to  go 

ippan  (no),  general,  universal. 

away. 

ira,  see  p.  187. 

ilnira  P  how  much  ?  ikura  ka,  iku- 

irai,  henceforth,  since,  after. 

ra  mo,  ikura  de  mo,  see  p.  50;  iku- 

iraserarera, (2)  see  pp.  167, 

ra  mo  nai,  there  are  hardly  any. 

244—5- 

ikdsa;   war:   ikusa  wo  suru,  to 

irasshai,  or  iraserare;  imper- 

make war. 

ative  oiirassharu,  see  p.  167, 247. 

ika(tSD)  P    how    many  ? — ikutsu 

irassham,  (irrcg.)  see  pp.  167, 

mo,  ikutsu  de  mo,  see  p.  50. 

187,  217,  244, 245. 

ima,  now :  ima-doki,  or  ima-jibun. 

ireba,  an  artificial  tooth. 

now ;  ima  motU,  see  p.  71 ;  ima- 

irera,  (2)  to  put  in,  to  insert ;  to 

sara,  now  again ;  ima  ni  iiatte. 

make  (tea) ;  conf.  pp.  222—3. 

by  this  time. 

iri-konda,  complicated. 

iri-mame,  parched  peas. 

iriyo  (na),  needed,  necessary. 

warn. 

iro,  colour, :  iro4ro,  all  sorts. 

imi,  signification,  meaning. 

iru,  to  enter ;  conf.  p.  222 — ^3 :  iri- 

imo,  a  potato. 

komu,  to  enter. 

imOtO;  a  younger  sister. 

im,  (3)  to  be;  see  pp.    186,  217, 

ina !  nay !  ina  ya,  yes  or  no. 

222 — ^3,     2^$',...irarenai,     (pre- 

inabikari; lightning. 

ceded  by  a  negative)  cannot  do 

inai,  within  the  limits  of;  towards 

without. 

the  interior. 

im,  (3)  to  shoot. 

inii^  garments,  clothing. 

to  the  town). 

isha,  a  physician. 

ine,  rice  (growing). 

ishi,  a  stone. 

IndO,  India. 

ishi-bei,  a  stone  wall. 

inkyo,  see  p.  362,  note  11. 

ishin,  seep.430,  note3. 

inochi,  life. 

IRhMshi,   the    Court   word    for 

inori,  prayer  :  inori  too  sum,  to 

dango,  a  dumpling. 

pray. 

i-shoka-jH;  clothing,  food,  and 

inorU;  to  pray. 

shelter. 

inshi,  a  stamp,  especially  a  post- 

isogashii,  busy. 

age-stamp. 

isogi,  a  hurry. 

inu,  a  dog. 

isoga,  to  make  haste. 

ip-pai,  one  cupful,  full :  ip-pai  na, 

issakujitsa,    the     day    before 

full. 

yesterday. 

IS 


[479  ] 

JAPANESE — ENGLISH    VOCABULARY. 


JI 


is-shin,  one    person:  Jibuti   is- 

iu,  to  say,  see  pp.  168,  180,  245  : 

shitiy  oneself  only. 

to  itte,  see  p.  80 ;  to  iu,  see  pp. 

isshill;  see  p.  430,  note  3. 

55,  67,  80;  to  ka  iu,  see  p.  67; 

isahd,  St  whole  life-time. 

to  itte  mo,  see  p.  182;   to  wa 

isshO,  together. 

iedo(mo),  see    p.    182;  ii-dasu. 

isshu,  a  kind»  a  sort. 

to  say,  to  express,  to  enounce ; 

is-s6,  a  pair. 

ii'kakeru,  to  address  (in   speak- 

isu, a  chair. 

ing);  ii'kikaseru,  to  tell ;  iu  made 

mo  nai,  needless  to  remark. 

244,  245. 

iwa,  a  rock. 

itai,  painful,  hurting. 

iwaba,  see  p.  180. 

itamera,  (2)  to  hurt  (trans.). 

iwaka,  a  Classical  form  of  iu,  to 

itaxnU;  to  hurt  (intrans.). 

say ;  see  p.  429,  note  10. 

itam,  to  reach :  ni  itaru  made. 

iwayora,  see  p.  423,  note  20. 

down  to ;  ni  iiatte,  at. 

i^\  nay!  nol  t;;a  «a,  objection- 

itasa, to  do ;  conf.  p.  190. 

able  ;   iya  desu  yo  I  see  p.  298, 

itatte,  very. 

No^  31,  and  foot-note. 

itchi,  union,  unison. 

iyag^m,  to  dislike. 

ito,  a  string,  thread. 

iyo-iyo,  more  and  more. 

itoxna>  leave  (of  absence),  dismis- 

izumiy a  spring,  a  fountain. 

sal  :  mo  0  itoma  itashimasfi  (or 

izare  P  which  ?  in  any  case ;  but 

moshimasu),  I   must  be  saying 

often    a  mere   expletive:   izure 

goodbye. 

no,  some... or  other. 

itOU,  to  avoid,  to  shun,  to  mind. 

itsu,  same  as  ichi,  one. 

J. 

itsnP  when? — itsu  ka,  itsu  mo. 

itsu  de  mo,  see  p.  50 ;  itsu  made 

J  a,  a  contraction  olde  wa;  see  pp. 

(tatte)  mo,  see  p.  69 ;  itsu  no  ma 

62,  94,  217:  /a  nai  ka,  see  pp. 

ni  ka,  some  time  or  other. 

62,  184. 

itsilka,  five  days,  the  fifth  day  of 

ja,  tobe;  seep.  217. 

the  month. 

Jama,  obstruction,  impediment: 

itSU(tsu),  five. 

jama  wo  surUj  to  be  in  the  way  ; 

itsuwari,  a  lie. 

ojama,  see  pp.  241,  300  (No.  49). 

ittai,  altogether ;  but  sometimes 

Jano,  the   Kyot5    equivalent    of 

almost  an  expletive. 

dano. 

it-tan,  once. 

jari,  gravel. 

it-toki,  one  hour,  once. 

ji,  earth,  ground. 

JI 


JAPANE8E- 


[480] 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


JO 


Ji,  time,  hour,  as  in  nan-ji?  what 
o'clock?  roku-ji  han,  half-past 
six  o'clock. 

ji,  a  written  character,  specifically 
a  Chinese  ideograph. 

Jibeta,  the  ground. 

Jibiki,  a  dictionary. 

jibnn,  a  time,  a  season. 

jibun,  «if. 

jigi,  (generally  with  0)  a  bow— of 
the  head  and  body. 

JigOkU,  hell. 

JijitsUj  a  fact. 

Jikan,  a  period  of  time,  an  hour. 

Jika-tdChaka,  self-confutation. 

jiki  (ni),  immediately. 

Jikisail;  a  vassal  of  sufficiently 
high  rank  to  be  allowed  per- 
sonal access  to  the  ShOgun. 

Jikkdn-shitsa,  a  laboratory. 

Jikken-tetBtlgaka,  the  positive 

philosophy,  Comtism. 
JikO,  temperature,  the  state  of  the 

weather. 
Jikoku,  an  hour,  time,  period. 
Jimbutsu,    people,    figures    (as 

opposed  to  scenery,  etc.). 
Jimen,  a  plot  of  ground. 
Jimxnill;  the  people  (ofa  country). 
Jimusho,  an  office. 
Jill;  a  person,  a  man. 
jinja,  a  ShintS  temple. 
Jinka,    a    human   habitation,   a 

house. 
Jinriki(8ha);  a  jinriklsha,  i.e.,  a 

species  of  bath-chair  pulled  by 

a  man. 


JinryokU  SarU,  (irreg.)  to  endeav- 
our, to  do  one's  very  best. 

Jinsha,  a  race  of  men. 

Jinta-miso,  see  p.  430,  note  2. 

jiro-jiro,  furtively,  by  snatches. 

Jir6,  a  man's  name ;  see  p.  35. 

Jiron,  an  opinion,  a  contention. 

Jisan  sura,  (Irreg.)  to  bring 
(respectful). 

JisatsU;  suicldt  I  jisatsu  surut  to 
commit  suicide. 

jisetSU;  a  season,  a  time. 

Jishiny  self. 

Jishin,  an  earthquake. 

Jishimban,  a  ward-office,  a 
warden,-*a  kind  of  police-office 
and  of  policemen,  under  the 
Tokugawa  regime. 

Jisho,  a  dictionary. 

Jissai,  practice  (as  opposed  to 
theory). 

JiSUra,  (irreg.)  to  refuse. 

jiten,  a  dictionary. 

JitsU;  truth :  jitsu  noy  true. 

JitsU-getsU,  the  sun  and  moon. 

JiyQ;  freedom,  liberty:  jiyu  na^ 
free:  jiya-seidot  a  free  govern- 
ment ;  jiy&'Seido-roHj  radical 
opinions. 

Jizai;  freedom, — rather  in  private 
than  in  political  matters. 

JO,  passion,  tenderness. 

j6,  a  lock  :jo  wo  orosu^  to  lock. 

jOy  the*  auxiliary  numeral  for 
mats:  hachi-jo  ni  roku-jo,  one 
room  of  eight  mats  and  another 
of  six.  . 


JO 


[481] 

JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


KA 


jO,  on,  with  regard  to,  in  the 
matter  of. 

j6bu  (na),  sturdy,  solid,  strong. 

jObnkorO;  an  envelope  (for  let- 
ters). 

JOOhtl,  a  maid-servant. 

jddan,  a  joke:  jddan  wo  iu,  to 
joke;  jodan-majiri  m,  half-jok- 
ingly. 

jogakn,  female  education. 

JOklsexi;  a  steamer. 

Joklsha,  a  railway  train. 

Jdrei,  an  official  regulation  or 
bye-law. 

jdrika  sura,  to  land  (intrans.). 

jord  (commonly,  but  less  cor- 
rectly, joro)  a  courtesan. 

J  Osama,  (generally  with  o  pre- 
fixed), a  young  lady,  Miss,  a 
daughter  (honorific). 

jdsan,  short  forjosama, 

JOtei,  God  (lit.  the  supreme  Em- 
peror). 

J0t5,  first-class:  joto-shakwai, 
good  society. 

JoyakU,  an  agreement,  a  treaty. 

jOza(na),  a  good  hand  at,  skilful. 

jtl^  the  nigorVed  form  of  chu;  see 

.     p.  142- 

jity  ten :  ju-man^  a  hundred  thou- 
sand \ja  ni  hak-ku  eight  or  nine 
out  of  ten. 

jnban,  a  shirt. 

jabun,  plenty,  ample. 

^a-gPyfiftttn:  jugonichit  fifteen 
days,  the  fifteenth  day   of  the 


month;  ja-go-roku,  fifteen  or 
sixteen. 

Ja^watsa,  October. 

ja-bacdli,  eighteen;  ju-hacki- 
nickiy  eighteen  days,  the 
eighteenth  day  of  the  month. 

ju-iobi,  eleven :  ja-ichi-nkhiy 
eleven  days,  the  eleventh  day 
of  the  month. 

jQ-ichi-gWatsn,  November. 

Jtl-Ju,  over  and  over  again. 

jtl-ku,  nineteen:  ys-AK-nwAi,  nine- 
teen days,  the  nineteenth  day  of 
the  month. 

Jmnoku,  a  tree. 

Jnxnptl,  a  fair  wind. 

Jun,  the  regular  order  or  turn. 

Jtl-ni;  twelve :  ja-ni-nichiy  twelve 
days,  the  twelfth  day  of  the 
month. 

Jd-ni^watsa,  December. 

Junsa,  a  policeman. 

Ju-roku,  sixteen:  ju-roku-nichi, 
sixteen  days,  the  sixteenth  day 
of  the  month. 

jH-san,  thirteen :  ju-san'nichi, 
thirteen  days,  the  thirteenth  day 
of  the  month. 

jH-shi,  fourteen. 

JQ-Sblcbi,  seventeen :  ja-shichi- 
nichiy  seventeen  days,  the  seven- 
teenth day  of  the  month. 

JQ-yokka,  fourteen  days,  the 
fourteenth  day  of  the  month. 


K. 


ka,  a  mosquito. 


KA 


JAPANfiSfe— ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


KA 


ka,  an  auxiliary  numeral ;  see  p. 

io6. 
lea  P  &n  interrogative  postposittoh ; 

see  pp.  66,  52,  271 :  ka  moy  see  p. 

70;  ka  mo  Shiran  J  perhaps. 
kabe,  a  mud  wall. 
kabe,  (with  honorific  prefix  a),  the 

Court  word  for  tofu,  bean -curd. 
kabaseru,  (2)  to  put  on  to  an- 
other's head,  to  impute. 
kachin,  the  Court  word  for  mo- 

chi,  a  rice-cake. 
kado,  &  gate ;  sometimes  an  item. 
kaeri,  the  way  back ;  kaeri-gake 

iti,  on  the  way  back. 

kaeni;  a  frog, 

kaeru,  (2)  to  change  (trans.). 
kaeru,  to  return  (ihtrans.),  hence 

to  go  away. 
kaesU,  to  give  back,  to  send  back, 

to  return  (trans.). 
kaesu-gaesu,    over    and    over 

again. 
kaett6,   contrary   to   what    one 

might  have  expected,  rather. 
kagami,  a  mirror. 
kage,  shade,  shadow,  reflection, 

hence  influence :  no  kage  nt^  in 

the  shadow  of,  hence  behind :  o 

kage  sama^  see  p.  303,  No.  84— 

5- 
kagen,  amount,  hence   flavour, 

also  the  bodily  feelings;  conf. 

p.  298,  No.  32,  foot-note. 
kagi,  a  key. 
kagiri,  a  limit*,  kagiri  no  nai, 

boundless. 


kagim,  to  limit,  to  be  limited :... 

ni  kagirazUf  is   not    restricted 

to...,  not  only. 
kagO,  a  kind  of  palanquin. 
kahe,   coffee  (from  the  French). 
kai)  a  shell. 
kai-agera,  (2)  to  buy  up  (said  of 

the  government) ;  also  to  buy  at 

a  higher  price. 
kaigan,  a  navy. 
kaihen,  the  sea-shore. 

kai-inu,  a  pet  dog. 

kaiJO,  the  surface  of  the  se^i'kai- 

jo'hokeny  marine  insurance. 
kaiko,  a  silkworm. 
kaikwa,  civilisation :  kaikwa  su- 

rUf  to  become  civilised. 
kaixnono,  a  purchase,  shopping, 
kaisan,  dispersion,  adjournment : 

kaisan  surUy  to  disperse. 
kaisei,    amendment,      revision : 

kaisei  surUy  to  revise. 
kaisbin,   reform*,   kaishin  surUy 

to  reform. 
kaji,  a  rudder. 
kflji,  household  affairs:  kaji-mu- 

kij  the  state  of  a  household. 
kakari-ai;  implication,— e.g.   in 

a  crime. 
kakaril,  to  hang  (intrans.),  to  be 

in  place,  e.g.  a  bridge  *,  see  also 

p,  212:  0  me  ni  kakaru^  see  p. 

72.  Sometimes  kakaru  meafts  to 

cost,  also  to  take  time. 
kakatO,  the  heel. 
kake-aa,  to  discuss,  to  bargpain, 

to  arrange  aboutr 


KA 


[483] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


KA 


kakemono,  a  hanging  scroll. 
kakene,  an  overcharge:  kakene 
wo  iuy  to  make  an  overcharge. 

kakeru,  (2)  to  run. 

kakeru,  (2)  to  be  flawed  or 
nicked,  to  wane. 

kakera,  (2)  to  hang  (trans.),  to 
put ;  see  also  p.  213. 

kakerU;  (2)  to  write  (intrans.); 
conf.  p.  200 — I. 

kake-hiki,  bargaining. 

kaki,  a>n  oyster. 

kaki,  a  persimmon. 

kaki-tsiike,  a  note,  a  memo- 
randum, a  bill. 

Kakka,  Your  or  His  Excellency. 

kakkoka,  all  countries,  foreign 
countries  in  general:  kakkoku 
koshiy  the  corps  diplomatique. 

kaku,  an  angle :  kaku-zato^  loaf- 
sugar. 

kaku,  each  (in  compounds). 

kaku,  to  scratch,  to  write  :  kaki- 
owarUf  to  finish  writing;  kaki- 
sokonauy  to  make  a  mistake  in 
writing ;  kaki-tsukeru^  to  jot 
down. 

kakubetsu  (no  or  na)^  differ- 
ent, special. 

kakujitsu,  every  other  day. 

kakiunei;  a  revolution  (in  go- 
vernment, etc.). 

kakureru,  (2)  to  bide  (intrans.). 

kakushaka,  see  p.  426,  note 
3- 

kakuSUy  to  hide  (trans.). 

kamau,  to  have  to  do  ^ith,  to 


meddle  with,  to  matter :  kamai? 

masen,  it  doesn't  matter. 
kaznben,    forbearance^   forgive* 

ness :  kamben-zuyoi^  patient. 
kamO;  a  tortoise. 
kame;  a  European  dog;  see  p. 

kami,  the  hair  of  the  head :  kami- 
hasamiy  hair- cutting. 

kami;  above,  upper :  0  kami^  the 
government;  0  kami  san^  see 
okamisan, 

kami,  a  Shinto  god  or  goddess. 
By  most  of  the  Protestant  mis- 
sionaries this  term  has  been 
adopted  to  denote  the  Christian 
God. 

kami  (no  ke),  the  hair  of  the 
head :  kami-yuiy  a  hair- dresser. 

kami,  paper :  kami-iret  a  pocket- 
book  ;  kami-maki-tabakOy  a 
cigarette. 

Kamigata,  a  general  designa- 
tion for  the  old  capital  Kyoto 
and  its  neighbourhood. 

kami-hasami;  hair-cutting. 
kaminari,  thunder. 

kamo,  a  wild-duck. 

kampan,  the  deck  of  a  vessel. 

kampeki,  the  temper  (of  a  per- 
son) :  kampeki  ni  sawaru^  to 
irritate  one's  temper. 

kampoka,  see  kanshin, 

kamu,  to  bite. 

kan,  interval ;  see  p.  115. 

kan,  heating  {sake) :  kan  wo  tsu- 
kerUf  to  heat  sake. 


KA 


JAPANESE- 


[484] 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


KA 


Kana,  the  Japanese  syllabic 
writing ;  see  p.  9. 

kanagU;  metal  work,  metal  fast- 
enings. 

kanai,  inside  a  house,  all  the 
members  of  a  household ;  hence 
.  a  humble  word  for  wife. 

kanaraza,  positively,  certainly. 

kanau,  to  correspond,  to  agree 
with,  to  eventuate,  to  succeed. 

kau-dan,  cold  and  heat,  tempera- 
ture. 

kandankei,  a  thermometer. 

kane,  metal,  money:  kane-ire,  a 
purse ;  kane-mochit  a  rich  man. 

kane,  a  bell. 

kanerU;  (2)  to  be  unable ;  see  p. 
197. 

kanete,  beforehand,  together. 

kangae,  consideration,  reflection, 
a  thought,  an  intention  :  kangae 
ga  tstikUt  to  hit  on  an  idea; 
kangae  no  ue,  on  considera- 
tion. 

kangaem,  (2)  to  consider,  to  re- 
flect. 

kani,  a  crab. 

kanji,  a  feeling :  kanji  ga  okoru^ 
to  begin  to  feel. 

kanjira,  (3)  to  feel. 

^ailjO,  an  account,  a  bill :  kanjo 
wo  surut  to  do  accounts. 

kannin,  patience:  kannin  suru, 
to  be  patient. 

kaxmushi,  a  Shinto  priest. 

kanO;  Classical  for  ano;  that. 

Kan-on,  see  p.  7. 


kanro,  Ht*  sweet  dew,  hence 
delicious, — said  of  liquor. 

kanshaku,  a  quick  temper :  kan- 
shaku-mochiy  quick-tempered. 

kn.nn'h^Ti^  admiration,  astonish-. 
ment :  kanshin  suru,  to  admire, 
to  be  astonished  at. 

kanshu,  hot  sake, 

kantei,  criticism:  kantei  suru^ 
to  judge  critically. 

kanzashi,  a  hair-pin. 

kanzame(-monO),  tinned  pro- 
visions. 

kaO,the  face:  kao-zoroi,  everybody 
being  present,  the  full  troupe. 

Kara,  China. 

kara, '  a  postposition  ;  see  pp.  68, 
268 :  -kara  shite,  see  p.  68 ;  kara 
to  ittCy  see  p.  8i. 

kara,  a  collar,  (from  the  English). 

kara  (na),  empty. 

karada,  the  body  (of  any  living 
creature). 

karakane,  bronze. 

karashi,  mustard. 

karasu,    a    crow:  karasu-mugi, 

oats. 
kare,  Classical  for  are,  that :  kure 

kore,  this,  that,  and  the  other ; 

more  or  less,  pretty  well. 
kari,  (in  compounds),  temporary. 

kari-nushi,  a  debtor. 

karira,  (3)  to  borrow,  to  hire ; 

conf.  pp.  160,  245  :  kari'kiru,  to 

hire  the  whole  of. 
karOXljira,  (3)  to  think  lightly 

of.  .     . 


KA 


[485] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


KA 


kami;  light ;  hence  soft  (in  speak- 
ing of  water). 

kamta,  ^  pitying  card  (from  the 
Spanish  carta), 

lUUSa;  ^  broad  sun-hat,  a  parasol, 
an  umbrella. 

kaeUb;  quantity,  amount. 

kasanani;  to  be  piled  up,  to  be 
repeated. 

kasaneni;  (2)  to  pile  up,  to 

repeat. 
kasanete,  several  times,  again. 
kaahlkoi;    awe-inspiring;     also 

clever. 
kashikomaru,  to  receive  orders 

respectfully :       kashtkomarima' 

shUa,  all  right,  Sir  I 
kashikOZUU;  to  reverence. 
kashikOEA,     awe-inspiringness, 

cleverness. 
kashi-nagaya,  a  nagaya  to  let. 

(Conf.  nagaya,  p.  275,  foot-note 

3.) 

kaahi-nushi,  a  creditor. 

kashira,  the  head,  a  chief,  a 
superior. 

kasllKwa);  an  oak-tree. 

kasu,  to  lend,  to  let  (e.g.  a  house). 

kasiiteira,  sponge-cake,  conf.  p. 
25. 

kata,  the  side  of  anything,  a 
direction,  hence  one  side,  one : 
kata-ashif  one  foot ;  kata-te,  one 
hand :  (0)  kata,  a  gentleman, 
a  lady.  Kono  kata  sometimes 
means  since. 

kata,  a  shoulder :  kata-saki.,  d°. 


kata-gata,  at  the  same  time  as, 
on  the  occasion  of;  conf.  p.  332, 
No,  7. 

katai,  hard,  hence  strict,  honest. 

kata-kage,  shade  on  one  side  of 
the  road. 

Kata-kana,  the  square  form  of 
the  Jap.  syllabary ;  see  p.  9. 

kataki,  an  enemy  (private). 

katamaru,  to  grow  hard. 

katana,  a  sword:  katana-ya,  a 
sword-shop,  a  dealer  in  swords. 

katazukerU;  (2)  to  put  away. 

katchili,  a  word  expressive  of 
the  sound  of  clicking. 

katO,  low  class,  third  class  (on 
railways,  etc.). 

katoku,  a  patrimony. 

katsU|  to  conquer,  to  win. 

katte,  will,  choice,  (hence)  con- 
venience, (hence)  kitchen :  anata 
no  go  katU  desUj  you  can  do 
as  you  like;  katte  narete  iru, 
to  know  one's  way  about  a 
house. 

katto,  an  onomatope  for  sudden- 
ness. 

kau,  to  buy :  kai-kini^  to  buy  up 
the  whole  of;  kaimono,  a  pur- 
chase ;  kai-torUf  to  buy. 

kau,  to  keep  (domestic  animals).' 

kawa,  a  river. 

kawa,  the  skin,  rind,  or  bark  of 
anything ;  leather. 

kawai,  P^t,  dear  little,  poor  little. 

kawaisO;  worthy  of  pity,  in  dis- 
tress. 


KA 


T4861 

JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


KS 


kawakU;  to  get  dry :  kawaite  iru. 

keisatstlsho,  a  police-station. . 

to  be  dry ;  nodo  ga  kawakima- 

keisatstikwan,       a      police 

shita,  I  am  thirsty. 

officer. 

kawari,    a    change,— especially 

keishokU,  scenery. 

for  the  worse :  no  kawari  ni,  in- 

keizai-gaka,    political     econo- 

stead of ;  sono  kawari  nij  on  the 

my;  keizai-gakusha,  a  political 

other   hand,    see    also   p.  96; 

economist. 

kawari  no  otoko,  another  man 

kekkd  (na),  splendid. 

(instead  of  the  usual  one). 

kembutsu,    looking    at,    sight- 

kawara, to  change  (intrans.). 

seeing,    sometimes  spectators: 

kawflise-tegata,  a  bill  of  ex- 

kembutsu suru^    to    go    to    see 

change. 

(sights,  etc.). 

kawazQ;  a  frog. 

kemmaku,  the  countenaitce. 

kaya,  a  mosquito-net. 

kemono,  a  quadruped. 

kayasU,  vulg.  for  kaesu. 

kemnri,  smoke. 

kayoU;  to  go  backwards  and  for- 

kemushi, a  caterpillar. 

wards,  to  attend  (e.g.  school). 

ken,    the  auxiliary  numeral   for 

kaza-kami;  (to)  windward. 

houses. 

kazari,  an  ornament. 

Kench5,  see  pp.  354—5- 

kaze,  the  wind :  kaze  wo  hiku^  to 

kexijutsu,  swordsmanship. 

catch  cold. 

kenkwa,  a  quarrel :  kenkwa  suru. 

kazoeru,  (2)  to  count. 

to  quarrel. 

kazu,  a  number. 

kenkytl,  investigation,  research : 

ke,  a  hair,  hairs  on  the  human 

kenkyu  suru^  to  investigate. 

body  or  on  an  animal. 

kennon,    danger:    kennon    na. 

ke  !  an  expletive ;  see  p.  231. 

dangerous. 

kedamono,  a  quadruped. 

kerai,  a  retainer,  a  follower. 

k6ga,  a  wound :  kega  surUt  to  be 

keredo(ino),  though,  but;  see 

wounded,  to  hurt  oneself  severe- 

p. 181. 

ly. 

kera,  (2)  to  kick,  rarely  to  outdo. 

keiba,  a  horse-race. 

kesa,  this  morning. 

keiben  (na),  easily  to  be  used, 

keshlkaran,  outrageous,  absurd. 

convenient. 

keshlki;  a  view,  scenery,  appear- 

keikO, practice:  keiko  wo  surut 

ance. 

to  practise. 

kesshite,  positively,  certainly. 

keikwaku,  a  design,  an  inten- 

kessura, (irreg.)  to  decide. 

tion,  a  plan. 

KE 


JAPANESE- 


[487I 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


KI 


ketchakll;  decision,  final  re- 
solve :  ketchaku  nOy  positive, 
lowest  (of  a  price). 

kettO,(from  Engl.  hlBnket),  a  rug. 

ki,  the  spirits  (of  a  person),  some- 
times intention :  ki  ga  tsUku,  to 
have  one^s  attention  called  to 
something;  ki  ni  iru^  to  be 
agreeable  to  one;  ki  no  kiita^ 
quick-witted ;  ki  wo  kikaseru^  to 
show  wit  or  tact ;  ki  wo  otosu, 
to  let  one's  spirits  droop ;  ki  wo- 
tsukertij  to  pay  attention. 

ki,  a  tree,  wood  (the  material) :  ki 
no  miy  A  fruit,  a  berry. 

ki,  an  honorific  prefix,  see  p.  139. 

ki,  the  indefinite  form  of  kuru,  to 
come. 

ki,  a  termination  of  adjectives ;  see 
p.  118. 

kibisho,  a  tea-pot. 

kiban,  the  bodily  feelings :  kibun 
ga  warui,  to  feel  unwell. 

kichigai  (no),  mad. 

kichi-nichi,  a  lucky  day. 
kido,  a  small  door,  a  wicket. 
kifQ,  a  disposition  of  the  mind. 
ki-^ae,  a  change  of  clothes. 
kigen,    the  bodily   feelings:   go 

kigen  ydy  I  wish  you  good  health; 

see  also  p.  343,  foot-note  31. 
ki-iroi,  yellow. 
kjji,-  a  pheasant. 
ki-Jdbu,    of     good    cheer,    not 

alarmed. 
kikfid,  a  machine. 

kikasera,  (»)  to  infonn. 


kiki-gurashii,  ugly  (to  hear). 

kiki-xne^  efficacy,  acting  (as  a 
drug.). 

kikO,  climate,  temperature. 

kikoeru,  (2)  to  be  audible,  to  be 
able  to  hear. 

kikoktt,  (your)  august  country. 

kiku,  a  chrysanthemum. 

kika,  to  hear,  to  listen ;  (conf.  p. 
245) ;  hence  to  ask,  to  enquire, 
as  kiki  ni  yarn,  to  send  to  en* 
quire;  less  often  to  have  an  effect, 
to  act  (e.g.  as  a  drug) :  kiki-soko- 
naUf  to  hear  wrong;  kiki-tsukerUt 
to  happen  to  hear,  to  notice. 

kimari,  a  fixed  arrangement: 
kimari  ga  nai^  there  is  no  rule. 

kimi,  a  prince,  a  sovereign; 
(hence)  you. 

kimi,  feelings :  kimi  ga  warui^  to 
feel  unwell,  to  feel  frightened. 

kimono,  clothes,  specifically  the 
long  upper  robe  worn  by  the 
Japanese. 

kimpen,  a  neighbourhood. 

kin,  gold,  money. 

kin,  a  pound. 

kinchaka,  a  purse:  kinchaku' 
kiriy  a  pickpocket. 

kingyo,  a  goldfish. 
kinjiru,  (3)  to  forbid, 

kinjitsa,  a  few  days  hence. 
kinjo,  neighbourhood. 
kinjil,  birds  and  beasts. 
kinki,  joy :  kinki  ni  taezu^  to  be 

overcome  with  joy- 
kin6,  yesterday. 


KI 


JAPANESE- 


[488] 
-ENGLISH    VOCABULARY. 


KO 


kinodoka,  (lit.  poison  of  the 
spirit)  regret  or  concern  felt  for 
others :  o  kinodoku  sama,  see  p. 
241. 

kinsatsai  paper-money. 

kinsen,) 
kinau,  /""^"^y* 
kino,  silk. 

Kin-y6bi,  Friday. 
kinzai,  a  suburb. 
ki-6  {no),  past,  former. 
kippa,  a  ticket. 
kirai,  averse  to ;  see  p.  63. 

kirare-zon^see  endof  PP.396--7. 

kiraili  to  dislike. 

kire,  stuff  (for  clothes,  etc.). 

kirei  (na),  pretty,  neat,  clean. 

kirem,  (2)  to  cut  (intrans.),  to 
snap ;  see  p.  201. 

kiri,  a  suffix  derived  from  kiru,  to 
cut,  and  meaning  only.  It  is 
also  pronounced  kkiri  and  giri : 
fatari-girit  only  two  people, 
tgte-a-tete. 

kiri,  mist. 

kirido,  a  garden-gate. 

kiri-doka,  see  end  of  pp.  396 — 7. 

kiririttO  shita,  sharp,  well- 
defined. 

kiru,  to  cut,  (hence)  to  kill,  see 
also  p.  213:  kiri-komUf  to  cut 
into;  kiri'korosu,  to  cut  to 
death ;  kiri-siterUy  to  kill  and  do 
for ;  kiri-tsUkerUj  to  cut  at 

Mm,  (3)  to  wear,  to  have  on  or 
put  on  (clothes):  ki-kaeru,  to 
change  one's  clothes. 


kiry6,  countenance,  looks. 
kisaki,    an   empress     or    queen 
consort. 

klsama,  you ;  see  p.  45. 

kisera,  a  pipe  (for  smoking). 
kisha,  an  abbreviated   form    of 

jokisha,  a  railway  train. 
kishd,  spirit,  temper:  kishO  na, 

spirited. 
kiSOku,  a  law. 
kiasaki,  the  point  of  a  blade. 
kita,  north. 
kitaka,  returning  home: — suru, 

to  return  home. 

kitanai,         |  ..       * 
kitanara8hii,H^^^y- 

kitfluexijd,  a  smoking-room. 

kitsone,  a  fox. 

kittO,  positively. 

ki-y6  (na),  handy,  clever. 

kizetsa  sura,  to  faint. 

kke,  an  expletive,  see  p.  231. 

kkili,  see  kiri. 

ko,  an  auxiliary  numeral;  see  p.  106. 

ko,  powder. 

kOi  a  child,  the  young  of  any 
animal ;  hence  used  as  a  prefix' 
to  form  diminutives,  as  kirei, 
pretty;  ko-gireit  rather  pretty; 
see  also  pp.  139 — 140. 

ko,  archaic  for  ki^A  tree,  still  used 
in  ko  no  ha,  the  leaves  (^  trees. 

ko,  merit,  great  deeds,  a  feat. 

k6,  a  duke. 

k6,  a  marquis.  This  word  is 
written  with  a  different  Chinese 
character  from  the  preceding. 


KO 


[489] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY, 


KO 


k5y  thus,  like  this,  in  this  way : 

koi-gUChi,  the  joint  where  the 

ko  iuy  this  kind  of,  such  as  this ; 

sword-handle  and  scabbard  of  a 

ko  suru  to,  if  one  does  this. 

sword  meet ;  koi-guchi  wo  kiru. 

ko  or  kdkd;  filial  piety :  ko  wo 

to  loosen  a  sword  for  use. 

tsukusut  to  be  very  filial. 

k5in,  time. 

koban,  an  obsolete  gold  coin  of 

ko-iflhl,  a  pebble. 

an  oval  shape. 

koitsn,  a  contraction  of  kotio  ya- 

kdbansho,  a  minor  police-sta- 

tsUf this  fellow,  this  rascal.  ' 

tion,  or  rather  police-hut,  such 

kojikii  a  beggar. 

as    are    found   in   the    Tokyo 

kokkwai,  a  parliament. 

streets. 

koko,   here:   koko  niy  here,  but 

koboreru^  (2)  to  get  spilt. 

sometimes  thereupon,  well. 

kobOBU,  to  spill  (trans.). 

k5k5,  filial  piety. 

kobune,  a  boat. 

kokoera,  hereabouts. 

kOChi  or  kOChira,  here. 

kOkoka,  an  advertisement  (espe- 

kOdai (na),  gigantic,  immense. 

cially  in  a  newspaper). 

kodan^  a  lecture. 

kokonoka^  nine  days,  the  ninth 

kOdankwai,  a  lecture  society. 

day  of  the  month. 

kodomo,    properly    the    plural 

kokono(t8a)^  nine. 

children,  but  also  used  for  the 

kOkorO,    the   heart    (metaph.)*: 

singular  child :  kodomo  ga  deki- 

kokoro-arigSt  the .  appearance  of 

rUf  children  are  born. 

a  tender  passion ;  kokoro-gake^ 

koe,  the  voice  :  koe  wo  kakeruy  to 

interest    taken   in  or    attention 

cry  out. 

paid  to  something;  kokoro-mochi. 

kOenohii  a  public  park. 

the  feelings  (especially  the  bodily 

ko-gatana,  a  penknife. 

ones) ;    kokoro-yasuiy    intimate, 

k5gd,  an  empress  or  queen  con- 

great friends:  kokoro-yoiy  com- 

sort. 

fortable,  well;  kokorozuku,  to 

kogoe^  a  low  voice. 

notice. 

kOgOtO|  scolding :  kogoto  wo  iu^ 

koktt,   a  country;  used  only  in 

to  scold. 

compounds,    as   kikoku,   (your) 

koga^  to  row. 

august  country. 

kogOSUri,  powders  (medicine). 

kokomin.    the    people     of     a 

kOliei  (na),  fair,  just. 

country. 

kohi,  see  kahe. 

kokud^  a  king. 

kdh6,  public  law. 

kOkwai,  repentance,  regret :  kd- 

koi,  (sexual)  love :  koi  no  mUhi,  6l°. 

kwai  suru,  to  repent. 

KG 


JAPANESE — ENGUSH   VOCABULARY. 


KO 


kOkyd,  lit.  the  old  village,  i.  e.» 

konniolli;  to-day :  konnichi  wa. 

home,  one's  native  place. 

see  p.  299,  No.  44. 

kono,  this  (adj.). 

minute,  small :   komaka  nt,   in 

k6n6,  a  good  result,  efficacy. 

detail. 

konrei,  a  wedding. 

kOman,  pride,  conceit.  . 

konzatsa,  confusion. 

komaru^  to  be  in  a  quandary,  to 

koppu,  a  glass  (from  the  Dutch 

be  in  trouble ;  conf.  p.  146. 

hop,  a  cup). 

komban^  to-ntght :  komhan  wa  / 

koraem,  (2)  to  endure,  to  bear : 

see  p.  299,  No.  42, 

korae-kirenaiy  cannot  endure  any 

kome,  hulled  rice. 

longer. 

komera^  (2)  to  stuff  into. 

kore,  this  (subst.) :  kore  kara  or 

komori,  a  nurse,  a  governess. 

kore  yoriy  henceforward.     For 

kOmori^  a  bat  (animal) :  kdmori- 

the  interjectional  use  of  kore,  see 

{gasa)y  a  European  umbrella. 

P-  234- 

komora^  to  be  inside  something 

korera(-byd);  cholera  (from  the 

else,  to  be  shut  up. 

English  word). 

komu,  to  stuff  into ;  see  also  p. 

kfiri,  ice. 

213. 

koro,  a  period,  a  time. 

konmgl^  wheat. 

korobasu,  to  roll  (trans.). 

komura^    to    receive    from    a 

korobU;  to  roll  (intrans.),  to  fall 

superior. 

down. 

kon,  dark  blue. 

koroBU,  to  kill. 

kona,  fine  powder,  flour. 

kdru,  to  freeze  (intrans.):   kori- 

konaida,  a  short  while  ago,  re- 

tsiku, to  stick  together  through 

cently. 

freezing,  to  freeze  over. 

konata,  hither. 

korya !  seep.  234. 

konda^>  a  contraction  of  kondo 

kosaera,  (2)  a  vulgar  contraction 

wa^  this  time,  now. 

of  koshiraeru. 

kondate,  a  bill  of  fare. 

kosakanlll;  a  farm  labourer. 

kondO^  this  time. 

koseki,  old  remains,  ruins. 

kongd^  the  Court  word  for  zdri^ 

kdseki,  efficiency,  merit :  koseki 

sandals. 

no  aru,  efficient. 

kon-i^  intimacy ;  friendly  feelings: 

kOsen,  brokerage,  commission. 

kon-i  na,  intimate. 

kdshakll;  the  title  of  duke. 

kon-in,  marriage. 

k6shaku,  the-  title  of  marquis. 

konna;  this  kind  of,  such  as  this. 

This    kd    is    writt^    with    9 

KO 


JAPANESE- 


[491I 
-ENGUSH  VOCABULARY. 


KU 


different  Chinese  character  from 
that  of  the  preceding  word« 

koshaku,  a  lecture. 

koshiy  (with  honorific  prefix  mi) 
the  Court  word  for  sleeping. 

koshi,  the  loins:  koshi  wo  ka- 
kerut  to  sit  down ;  koshi  ga  nu- 
keru,  lit.  the  loins  getting  put 
out  of  joint,  hence  to  be  crip- 
pled,— especially  through  fright; 
haya-goski  ga  nukeru,  to  become 
unable  to  move  through  fright. 

Kdshiy  Confucius. 

kOshi,  a  minister  (plenipotentiary 
or  resident). 

kOshikwan,  an  embassy,  a  lega- 
tion. 

koshi-nuke,  lit.  one  whose  loins 
are  out  of  joint,  hence  a  co- 
ward* 

koshiraeru,  (2)  to  prepare. 

koshd,  pepper. 

kdshd,  (na)»  exalted,  sublime. 

kOSO,  see  p.  232. 

koem,  to  cross  (a  mountain). 

kOSUi;  a  lake. 

kosura,  to  rub. 
kotaera,  (2)  to  answer. 

kotchi,  vulgar  for  kochi^  here. 

kOtei,  an  emperor. 

koto,  a  kind  of  harp  or  lyre  with 
thirteen  strings. 

koto,  an  (abstract)  thing, — not 
to  be  confounded  with  mofiOj  a 
(concrete)  thing;  see  pp.  36—7, 
173 :  koto  no  hoka^  extraordinary, 
exceptional. 


kotoba,  a  word,    a   language  i 

kotoba  wo  kaesiiy  to  retort. 
kotogotoku,  all,  completely. 
ko-tori,  a  small  bird. 
kOtOshi,  this  year. 
kotowari,  a  refusal,  an  excuse, 
kotowara,  to  refuse ;  less  often 

to  explain,  to  mention, 
kotsu-kotsa  sUtta,  pig-headed. 
kotsun    to,    with    a     thump, 

thud. 
kowagaru,  to  be  frightened. 
kowai,  afraid,  also  frightful. 
kowarero,    (2)    to    break    (in- 

trans.). 
kOWasu,  to  break  (trans.). 

koya,  a  hut. 

koyashi,  manure. 

koyO,  tt^  (autumn)  leaves :  koyd 
suruy  to  turn  red  (said  of  the 
leaves  of  trees). 

koydji,  a  tooth-pick. 

koyomi,  an  almanac. 

ko-zashlki,  a  small  room. 

kozd,  originally  a  Buddhist  a- 
colyte,  now  applied  to  any  little 
lad  or  urchin. 

kdzoku,  a  member  of  an  im» 
perial  family. 

koziikai,  a  low-class  servant,  a 
bouse  -  coolie ;  also  small  ex- 
penses ;  kozukai-zenif  pocket- 
money. 

ku,  nine. 

ku,  the  indefinite  or  adverbial 
termination  of  adjectives;  see 
p.  1J9. 


KU 


[49*  ] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


KU 


kabetsU;  a  diiference:    kuhetsu 

composition,  as  shokun,  gentle- 

suruy to  discriminate. 

men,  lit.  all  (you)  princes. 

kabi,  the  neck,  the  head. 

kun  nasai;  see  p.  248. 

kiichi,  the  mouth,  an  opening: 

kuni,    a    country,    a   province : 

kucki'benko  (na),    glib;    kUchi^ 

0      kuniy      your      (honourable) 

nukif  a  corkscrew;  kichiyakH' 

country. 

sokUf  a  verbal  promise;  kuchi 

kunjii,  a  crowd :  hunja  sum,  to 

ga  kikuy  to  be  able  to  speak  (e.g. 

crowd  (intrans.). 

a  young  child). 

kuntO,  instruction:  kunto  sum. 

kadakera,    (2)   to   break    into 

to  instruct. 

pieces  (intrans.). 

kora,  a  saddle. 

kndara,  to  descend. 

kura,  a  godown  ;  see  p.  14,  foot- 

kudasai,    or    kudasare,    im- 

note. 

perative  of  kudasaru;    see  pp. 

kurai,     rank,     hence     quantity. 

167,  236,  245. 

about,  such  as  to:   dono  kurai? 

kudasaru,  to  condescend  ;  conf. 

how  much? 

pp.  167,  245. 

kurai,  dark. 

kudoi,  verbose,  tedious. 

kurasa,  darkness. 

kiiftl,  a  contrivance,  a  dodge,  a 

kurashi,   a  livelihood:    kurashi 

plan. 

wo  tateru  (or  tsukeru),  to  gain  a 

kugi,  a  nail  (to  fasten  things  with). 

livelihood. 

Ku-gwatsu,  September. 

k^ji^;  ^  w*>*l«- 

kureru,  (a)  to  give ;  see  pp.  167, 

ku-ja,  ninety. 

245,  248. 

ktlki,  the  air,  the  atmosphere. 

kureru,  (2)  to  grow  dark :  hi  ga 

kukon,  the  Court  word  for  sake, 

kurem,  the  daylight  is  waning. 

rice-beer. 

it  is  getting  dark. 

kUri;  an  empty  fancy,  a  mere  hy- 

kumi, a  set,  a  clique;  also  an 

pothesis. 

auxil.  numeral ;  see  p.  109. 

kurS,  trouble,    pains:   go    kuro 

Iramo,  a  spider:  kumo  no  su,  a 

sama,  see  p.  241. 

spider's  web  (lit.  nest). 

kuroi,  black. 

klimo,  a  cloud. 

kuro-megane,  black  goggles. 

knmoru,  to  get  cloudy ;  kumotte 

knru,  (irreg.)  to    come;    see   pp. 

iruy  to  be  cloudy. 

154,  129,  187,  193,  207,  245:  ki- 

Inm,  a  prince,  a  lord,  also  Mr.; 

kakaru,    to    happen    to  come; 

see  p.  252. — Used    chiefly   in 

motte  kuru,  to  bring;  totU  kuru, 

KU 


JAPANESE- 


[495  ] 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


KY 


to  fetch ;  konaku  naru^  to  leave 

off  coining. 
kura,  to  wind. 
kuruma,     a    wheel,     anything 

moved  by  a  wheel,  specifically  a 

jinrikisha :  kuruma-ya^  zjinrikt- 

sha-mzxi. 
kuruahiiy  painful,  in  pain :  kuru- 

shi-magire^    distraction    caused 

by    pain,    terrible   throes;... mo 

kurushiku  nai,  there  is  no  harm 

in,  may 

kiisa,  a  plant,  a  herb. 

kiisai,  stinking. 

kiisari,  a  chain. 

kuse,  a  bad  habit. 

kushami,  a  sneeze :  kUshami  wo 

suruy  to  sneeze. 
kushi,  a  comb. 
kusuri,  medicine :  kusurl  ni  naru^ 

to  be  good  for  one's  health. 

kiltabirera,  {2)  to  get  tired: 

kUtabirete  iru^  to  be  tired ;  conf. 
p.  199. 

kutsu,  a  boot,  a  shoe :  kutsu- 
bera,  a  shoe-horn;  kutsu-tabi^ 
socks ;  kutsu-ya^  sl  bootmaker's 
shop,  hence  a  bootmaker. 

kuttsiikll,  to  stick  close  to. 

IsXXHf  to  eat:  kui-taosu^  to  cause 
loss  (e.g.  to  an  innkeeper)  by 
eating  food  and  not  paying  for 
it ;  kui'tsukuj  to  bite  (as  a  dog, 
etc.).. 

kuwaeru,  (2)  to  add. 

knwashii,  minute,  exact. 

kayashigara,  to  feel  sorry. 


kazureru,  (2)  to  crumble,  to 
break  to  pieces  (intrans.). 

kwai,  an  association,  a  society, 
a  meeting,  a  church  (metaph.). 

kwai;  a  chapter. 

kwaichdy  a  chairman,  the  pre- 
sident of  a  society. 

kwaidd,  a  meeting-house,  a 
church,  a  chapel. 

kwaiin,  a  member  (of  a  society, 
etc.). 

kwairakUy  joy,  pleasure. 

kwaiwa,  conversation. 

kwaji,  a  con6agration,  a  fire. 

KwampO,  see  p.  378,  Note  2. 

kwan-in,  an  official. 

kwankei,  connection,  relation, 
having  to  do  with  something 
else :  kwankei  suru^  to  depend  ; 
kwankei  wo  tsUkerUy  to  pay 
heed. 

kwankoba,  a  bazaar  (properly) 
one  established  for  the  en- 
couragement  of   industry). 

kwan-ZUme,  tinned  (provi- 
sions) ;  conf.  p.'  22. 

kwashi,  any  sweetmeat,  such  as 
a  bonbon,  cake,  or  pudding. 

kwayakU;  gunpowder. 

KwaySbi,  Tuesday. 

kwazai,  calamity  caused  by  fire : 
kwazai-hoken^  fire  insurance. 

kwazan,  a  volcano. 

kyaka^  a  guest,  a  customer,  a 
fare:  kyakurai,  the  advent  of 
guests,  a  party ;  kyakuma,  a 
drawing-room. 


KY 


JAPANESE- 


[494] 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


MA 


Iq^aka,  the  auxiliary  numeral  for 
chairs  and  tables. 

kyan-kyan,  the  sound  which 

dogs  make  in  yelping. 

ky5,  to-day :  kyd-jH^  during  to- 
day, by  to-night. 

kyO^  a  sutra. 

kyOdai,  brothers;  hence  some- 
times brothers  and  sisters :  kyo- 
dat-naka,  the  terms  on  which 
brothers  stand. 

kyoga,  environment,  surrounding 
circumstances. 

kyOhO,  a  method  of  Instruction, 
(hence  often)  religion. 

kyO-ika,  education. 

kydka,  a  species  of  comic  poem; 
conf.  p.  454. 

kyoktli  a  bureau  or  subdivision 
of  a  government  department, 
an  office. 

kyoktitan,  the  acme,  n  e  plus 
ultra, 

kydkwaly  a  church  (metaph.). 

ky0kV7aid0;  a  church,  a  chapel, 
a  meeting-house. 

kyonen,  last  year. 

kyOahi,  a  teacher,  a  missionary, 
a  clergyman. 

kyQ,  rare  for  kuy  nine. 

kya  (na),  sudden. 

kyiiji;  waiting  at  table,  a  waiter 
kyuji  wo  suru^  to  wait  at  table. 

kytkjitsu,  a  holiday. 

kyakin,  wages. 

kyatd,  last  year;  see  p.  337, 
foot-note. 


kyOyo,  urgent  business. 


M 

ma,  quite  ;  see  p.  228. 

xna,  in  the  first  place ;  see  p.  228. 

zna,  space,  interval,  hence  a 
room :  ma  ni  a«,  to  be  in  time, 
to  do  well  enough  (although  not 
precisely  what  is  required);  ma 
ga  waruif  to  be  a  bad  oppor- 
tunity for  doing  something,  to 
feel  awkward ;  ma  ni^  sometimes. 

ma !  see  p.  232. 

mabashii,  dazzling. 

machi,  the  mercantile  quarter  of 
a  town,  a  street:  machi-naka^ 
the  whole  street  (or  town). 

maohi^lOi,  long  to  wait,  te- 
diously long  of  coming :  o  machi- 
do  sama^  see  p.  241. 

znachigal,  a  mistake,  a  mis- 
understanding :  machigai-raskiiy 
apparently  a  mistake. 

xnachigaU,  to  make  a  mistake, 
to  mistake. 

xnachin,  nux  vomica,  strych- 
nine. 

znada,  still;  (with  a  negative) 
not  yet. 

made,  a  postposition,  see  p,  69  : 
made  ni^  see  p.  93  ;  sore  made  no 
kotOy  see  bottom  of  p.  ga. 

ZnadO,  a  window:  mado-kake^  a 
window-curtain. 

mae,  in  front,  before :  mae  kara^ 


MA 


t495] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH    VOCABULARY. 


MA 


beforehand  ;  hitorimae^  a  portion 

for  one ;  san-nim-mae^  portions 

for  thtee. 
mae-kake,  a  bib,  an  apron. 
magaru,  to  bend  (intrans.)  magat- 

te  iruy  to  be  bent,  crooked. 
magera,  (9)  to  bend  (trans.). 

magirakasu,    to   confuse,   to 

mystify. 
magO,  Si  grandchild. 
mai,  an  auxiliary  numeral;  see 

p.  106. 
mai,  a   verbal  termination,  see 

pp.  165,  79. 
maiy  each,  every,  as  in  mai-do, 

each  time,   always;    mai-nichi^ 

every  day. 
maira,  to  come,  to  go;  conf  p. 

245- 

maji, 

m^iki,     see  p.  Z65. 

majikaj 

•••majiri,  partly,  half, 
majiwara,    to    mix   with,  to 

associate. 
makara,  to  go,  to  come  (hum.- 

ble) :   makarideru,   d^,   also  to 

meet  with. 
makam,  to  go  down   in   price 

(intrans.). 
make-OShimiy       unwillingness 

to  give  way ;  see  also  p.  31. 
makeru,  (2)  to  lose,  to  be  beaten 

(in  war  or  at  a  game) ;  to  lower 

a    price:  o  make  ni^   into  the 

bargain. 
makl,  fire -wood. 


maki-tabakOy    a    cigar,  some^ 

times  a  cigarette. 
makka,  very  red. 
makOtO,  truth :  makoto  no,  true. 

makUy  to  sow. 
maku,  to  wind, 
makura,  a  pillow. 

makuwa-uri,  a  musk-melon. 
mama;  step,  as  in  matna-haha, 

a  step-mother. 
mama,  way,  manner. 
mama-haha,  a  stepmother. 
mame,  beans. 

mamma,  (generally  with  honor- 
ific 0),  rice,  food, 
mamora;  to  guard,  to  keep,  to 

watch. 
man,  a  myriad,  ten  thousand. 
mana,  (with  honorific  prefix  o\ 

the  Court  word  for  sakana,  fish. 
manabu,  to  practise,  to  study. 
mana-ita^  a  board  for  cleaning 

fish  on. 
mane,  imitation :  mane  wo  suru, 

to  imitate,  hence  sometimes  to 

do  (in  a  bad  sense). 

maneku,  to  invite. 

Tna.TiTifLltfl.^  the  middle. 

manzoku,  contentment :  man- 
zoku  suruy  to  be  content. 

mappira,  quite;  only  used  in 
such  apologetic  phrases  as  that 
in  p.  278,  N°  52. 

mam,  a  word  helping  to  form 
the  names  of  merchant  ships,  as 
**  Tokyo  Maru."  Its  origin  and 
signification  are  obscure. 


MA 


JAPANESE- 


[496] 
-ENGLISH    VOCABULARY. 


ME 


maru  de,  quite. 

Xnaruiy  round. 

TYifl.«fi.Tcii.^  (with  a  negative)  hardly, 

surely  not. 

ma-seba,  absence  of  space. 

massao,  perfectly  green,  livid. 

massnga  (na),  straight. 

masii,  ("^^s-)  an  honorific  verbal 
suffix ;  see  pp.  65,  156,  166,  193, 
243. 

masu,  to  increase  (trans.). 

mcUERl-masil,  inore  and  more. 

mata,  again,  (with  a  negative) 
no  more. 

znatEni;  a  pine-tree. 

matsu,  to  wait. 

matsnriy  a  festival. 

mattaka,  quite. 

mawani,  to  turn  (intrans.). 

maWaSU;  to  turn  (trans.). 

mazaru,  to  be  mixed. 

jnazeru,  (2)  to  mix  (trans.). 

xnaZUy  in  the  first  place,  well, 
anyhow,  at  all  events. 

znazni,  nasty  to  eat. 

me,  the  eyes,  a  mesh,  an  open 
space:  me  ga  sameru,  to  wake 
(intrans.);  o  me  ni  kakaru^  to 
have  the  honour  to  meet  you ;  o 
me  ni  kakeru,  to  have  the  bon- 

-  our  to  show  you;  hidoi  me  ni 
an,  to  be  harshly  treated ;  hidoi 
me  ni  awaseru^  to  treat  harshly ; 
me  no  chikai,  shortsighted ;  me- 

'  moto^  the  part  of  the  face  near 
the  eyes ;  me  ni  tsukanai^  not  to 
notice;  me  no    tama,  the  eye- 


balls; me  wo  mawasuy  to  faint. 

Me  is  also  used  to  form  ordinal 

numbers,  see  p.  112. 
me,  a  feminine  prefix,  see  p.  26. 
me,  a  contemptuous    suffix;  see 

P-  234-  . 
me-aki,one  who  can  see,  not  blind. 
medetai,  auspicious:   o  medeto 

gogaimasif  I  beg  to  congratulate 

you. 
medO,  the  eye  of  a  needle. 

megane,  spectacles. 

megam,  to  go  round:  meguri- 
auj  to  come  across  after  many 
adventures. 

mei;  a  name,  an  inscription ;  see 
also  bottom  of  p«  106. 

meibutsu,  the  production  for 
which  a  locality  is  specially 
noted. 

meigin,  a  celebrated  s<Mig  or 
poem. 

Meiji,  see  p.  113. 

meijira,  (3)  to  command. 

meisho,  a  celebrated  place. 

meiwakn,  perplexity,  trouble: 
meiwaku  sum,  to  be  in  per- 
plexity or  trouble ;  {hito  ni)  mei- 
waku wo  kakeru,  to  bring  (some 
one)  into  trouble. 

mekata,  weight. 

mekiki,  a  connoisseur. 
mekki,  plated, — e.g.  with  gold, 
meknra,  blind. 

memboka,  the  countenance 
(metaph.) :  memboku  ga  nai,  to 
feel  ashamed. . 


ME 


JAPANESE- 


[497  ] 
-ENGLISH    VOCABULARY. 


MI 


memma;  a  mare. 

men,  (generally  go  men)^  permis- 
sion, excuse. 

men,  a  surface ;  conf.  p.  107  and 
P-  376-7- 

Xnendd,  trouble:  mendo  na, 
troublesome. 

mendokiisai*  troublesome. 

mendori,  a  hen  bird. 

menjd,  a  diploma,  a  passport. 

meshi,  boiled  rice,  a  meal. 

meshi-inono,  clothes  (honor- 
ific). 

meshi-tsilkai;  a  servant. 

xnessd  (na),  extravagant. 

mesa,  female. 

mesu,  to  employ  (honorific); — 
used  very  widely,  e.g.,  for  to  put 
on  clothes,  to  get  into  Sijinriki- 
sha :  meshi-agaru^  to  eat  or  drink 
{^onoi\fLc)\tneshi-tsurerUy  to  take 
with  one  (e.g.  a  retainer). 

metta  ni  (with  a  negative), 
rarely,  hardly  ever. 

mezarashigara,      to     think 

strange,  to  lionise. 

mezurashii,  strange,  won- 
derful. 

mi,  three. 

mi,  three  (in  enumeration). 

mi,  an  honorific  prefix  ;  see  pp. 
243»  139. 

mi,  a  fruit  (generally  ki  no  mi), 

mi,  a  suffix  used  to  form  nouns ; 
see  p.  36. 

michi,  a  road,  a  way :  micki-nori, 
mileage,  distance. 


michiru,  (3)  to  grow  full,— e.g. 

the  moon,  or  the  tide  at  Hood. 

michi-sliio,  high  tide. 

midari  (ni),  in  confusion ;  hence 
rashly,  unduly. 

midori,  a  lightish  green. 

mieru,  (^}  to  be  visible,  to  ap- 
pear, to  seem ;  hence  sometimes 
to  come :  mienaku  naru^  to  dis- 
appear; to  miete^  see  p.  314, 
foot-note  37. 

migi,  the  right  (side):  migi-(t)te 
the  right  hand. 

migoroshii,  ugly  (to  look  at). 

mi-harashi,  a  view  (down  or 
over),  a  prospect. 

mihon,  a  sample. 

mijikai,  short. 

mikado,  see  p.  34. 

mikan,  an  orange  (mandarin). 
mikka,  three  days,  the  third  day 

of  the  month. 
mimi,    the    ears:    mimi   ni  mo 

kakenaiy  won't  listen  to  it ;  mimi 

no  toiy  hard  of  hearing. 
mimizu,  an  earthworm.    Some 

say  memezu, 
mimoohi,      conduct,      morals, 

(good  or  bad). 
mina,  all :  mina  ni  narimashita, 

see  p.  302,  No.  66 ;  mina  san^  all 

of  you,  all  your  people. 

minami,  south. 

minato,  a  harbour,  a  port. 
minken,     popular    rights,    de- 
mocracy. 
mirU;  (3)  to  see,  to  look,  some- 


MI 


[498] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


MO 


times  to  try,  also  to  consider  as 
(conf.  pp.  188,  245) :  mi-ataru,  to 
find;  mi-awaserUf  to  put  off; 
mi'dasUi  to  discover:  mi-komu, 
to  see  into  or  through,  to  es- 
timate; mi-mawaru^  to  look 
round ;  mi-nogasu,  to  let  out  of 
sight ;  mi'Otosu,  to  overlook ;  mi- 
sokonauy  to  see  wrong;  mi- 
tarirut  to  see  fsnough  of;  mi- 
torerUf  to  be  captivated ;  mi-tsu- 
kerut  to  notice ;  mi-tsukuroUt  to 
look  out  for  and  get  (something 
suitable). 

mifle,  ^  shop :  mise-sakit  a  shop* 
window. 

misera,  (2)  to  show ;  conf.  p.  245. 

ZnisO,  a  kind  of  bean  sauce. 

xnisokai  the  last  day  of  the 
montbi  whether  the  30th  or 
3Jt8t' 

miCtsu)^  three :  tnitsu-gOt  ^  three- 
year-old  child ;  mitsu-ire-koy 
three  boxes  fitting  into  each 
other. 

mitsi&ke,  a  castle-gate. 

mitsu-me  nyudd,  a  hobgoblin 

with  three  eyes. 
xniya,  a  Shinto  temple,  but  see 

pp.  243. 
xnjyage,  a  present,  especially  one 

brought  by  a  person  returning 

from  a  journey. 
zniyako,  a  capital  city. 
mizo,    water;    specifically    cold 

water  as  opposed  to  hot,  and 

fresh  water  as  opposed  to  salt : 


mizu-gwashi,  fruit;  mizu-tsugi, 
a  water-jug  ;  misu-umiy  a  fresh- 
water lake  ;  mizu  ga  deru,  water 
overflowing. 

XSXOy  a  postposition ;  see  pp.  69, 
52,  182,  191,  263 :  de  mOt  see  p. 
52,  92. 

mOy  mourning. 

m6,  already,  still,  yet,  more ;  (with 
a  negative  verb)  no  more ;  mo 
hitotsu,  one  mort ;  mo  yorashiif 
see  p.  302,  No.  72. 

xnochi,  a  kind  of  rice-cake, 

mochiini,  (3)  to  employ. 

mochimashite,  polite  for  mot- 

t€f  both  as  gerund  of  motsu  and 
as  postposition. 
mOOhiZDOnO,  property,  posses- 
sions. 

mochiron,  of  course. 

modOSU,  to  give  or  send  back, 

to  vomit. 
moegi,  dark  green. 
mohaya,  same  as  mo. 
xnoji,     or    monji,     a    written 

character,  specifically  a  Chinese 

ideograph. 

moji-xnoji  sura,  (irreg.)  to  be 

nervous. 
znOkarU,  to  be  earned  or  made, 

— said  of  money. 
mdke,  profit,  gains. 
mokeru,  (2)  to  make  (money). 

mokuroku,  a  list. 

mokiiteki,  an  object,  a  motive. 
Mokayobi,  Thursday. 

momeii;  cotton. 


MO 


t  499  ] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


MU 


momijly  the  maple- tree, — cele- 
brated for  its  red  leaves  in 
autumn. 

mommO  (na),  ignorant. 

momOy  a  peach. 

znomUy  to  rub,  to  knead,  to 
shampoo. 

xnon,  a  **  cash  "  (a'small  copper 
coin). 

mon,  a  gate. 

mon',  short  for  mono,  a  thing. 

xnondai,  a  problem,  a  question. 

mono,  a  (concrete)  thing, — ^not 
to  be  confounded  with  koto^  an 
(abstract)  thing,  see  p.  37:  mon{o) 
desn  kara^  see  p.  68;  monO' 
goto,  each  thing  (in  its  turn); 
mono  iu,  to  speak ;  mono  no,  see 
p.  37  ;  mono  wo,  see  pp.  180 — i. 

xnono-okij  an  out-house. 

moppara,  chiefly. 

xnoraUy  to  have  given  one,  to 
receive;  see  also  p.  198. 

moshi,  an  initial  exclamation 
answering  to  our  phrase  excuse 
me.  Perhaps  it  comes  from 
moshimasu,  I  say. 

Mdshi,  Menctus. 

xnOshi-bun,  an  objection. 

xndshi-wake,  an  excuse,  an 
apology. 

mOsU;  to  say  (see  also  p.  243) : 
moshi-ageru,  to  say  to  a  super- 
ior; moshi-age-kaneru,  not  to 
venture  to  say;  moshi-awaseru, 
to  arrange  beforehand  (e.g.  a 
meeting);  moshi-kaneru,  not  to 


venture  to  say ;  moshi-ukeru,  to 
to  receive,  to  take  in  charge; 
moshi-watasu,  to  deliver  judg- 
ment. 

moto,  origin,  originally,  cause;... 
no  moio  to  nam,  to  cause  ;  moto 
yori,  of  course* 

motode,  capital  (a  fund  of 
money). 

motomerU;  fs)  to  search  for, 
to  get. 

motsu,  to  hold,  (hence)  to  have : 
mocki-ageru,  to  lift. 

motte,  a  postposition:  see  pp. 
70,  223:  motte  iku,  to  carry  away, 
matte  kuru,  to  bring  (things). 

motto,  still,  more ;  conf.  p.  143. 

mottomo,  quite,  very,  (hence) 
quite  right  or  reasonable,  of 
course:  go  mottomo  de  gozai- 
masu,  see  p.  240. 

moya,  mist,  fog. 
Xnoyd,  a  pattern. 
mu,  six. 

jntL,  six  (in  enumeration). 
muchtl,  (as)  in  a  dream. 

muda  (na),  useless. 

mngaka,  ignorance ;  mugaku  na 

or  no,  ignorant. 
mugi,  a  general  name  for  wheat 

and  barley. 
mUMtsU  (no),  illiterate. 
muhon,  a  rebellion,  a  mutiny: 

muhon-nin,  a  rebel. 
muika,  six  days,  the  sixth  day 

of  the  month. 
mukade,  a  centipede. 


MU 


[  500  ] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


NA 


mukaeni,  (2)  to  send  for,  to 
welcome,  to  marry  (a  wife). 

TYiTl^fftfihi^  antiquity,  old  days. , 

xnukatte  (preceded  by  »>), 
turning  to,  towards,  to. 

znukau,  to  be  opposite  to;  ni 
mukattet  confronting,  towards, 
to. 

ZXluko,  a  bridegroom,  a  son-in- 
law. 

muko,  the  opposite  side,  op- 
posite, the  other  party,  he,  she, 
they,  there :  no  muko  ni,  on  the 
other  side,  opposite,  beyond. 

muku,  pure,  solid,  unalloyed; — 
said  of  metals. 

mumei  (no),  anonymous. 

muna-moto,  same  as  mune. 

mune,  the  chest :  mune  ga  warui, 
to  feel  sick. 

mune,  a  roof-ridge;  see  also 
bottom  of  p.  109. 

munintd,  an  uninhabited  isl- 
and. 

mura,  a  village. 

murasaki,  Hlac. 

muri;  unreasonable:  go  muri 
des&,  what  you  say  is  unreason- 
able. 

muryO,  incalculable,  infinite. 

musai  (na),  wifeless,  a  bachelor. 

mushi,  an  insect,  any  small 
creature  that  is  neither  bird, 
quadruped,  nor  fish. 

mushi,  (with  honorific  prefix  o), 
the  Court  word  for  miso,  bean 
sauce. 


musiiko,  a  boy,  a  son ;  but  see 
p.  250. 

musume,  a  girl,  a  daughter; 
but  see  p.  250. 

mu(tsu),  six. 

mutsumashii,  friendly,  on 
good  terms. 

muyami  (Aa),  reckless,  helter- 
skelter  :  muyami  ni,  recklessly, 
wholesale. 

muyd  (no),  useless. 

■mngnka.ft'hi^^  difficult. 

myaku,  the  pulse:  myaku.  wo. 
toru,  to  feel  the  pulse. 

mydcho,  to-morrow  morning., 

myd    (na),   wonderful,   strange. 

mydgonichi,  the  day  after  to- 
morrow. 

mydji,  a  family  name. 

myonichi,  to-monow. 

N. 

n',  short  for  no,  of;  see  p.  77. 

na,  a  name,  specifically  the  per- 
sonal name  which  corresponds 
to  our  "Christian  name":  na 
wo  tsukeruy  to  give  a  name. 

na,  termination  of  the  positive 
imperative ;  see  p.  164. 

na,  termination  of  the  negative 

imperative ;  see  p.  165. 
'  na,  a  particle  used  to  form  quasi- 
adjectives;  see  p.   132:  na  no, 
and  na  n\  see  p.  132  foot-note. 

na !  an  interjection ;  see  p.  232. 

nabe,  a  saucepan.  , 


NA 


JAPANESE- 


[501] 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


NA' 


Ziada,  A  reach  or  stretch  of  sea 
along  a  limited  portion  of  the 
coast. 

nadakai,  famous. 
nadameru,  (2)  to  pacify. 
naderu,  (2)  to  stroke. 

nado,  properly  etcetera,  but  often 
used  at  the  end  of  an  enumera- 
tion as  a  sort  of  expletive. 
Sometimes  it  may  be  rendered 
by  such  as,  or  like. 

naftlda,  a  visiting  card. 

nagai,  long, 
naga-iki,  long  life. 
nagamera,  (2)  to  gaze. 

XUtgara,  while ;  see  p.  236. 

nagare,  a  flow. 
nagareru,  (2)  to  flow. 
nagaya,  sec  p.  275,  footnote, 
nagera,  (2)  to  throw. 
nagi,  a  calm. 
nagaru,  to  beat,  to  thrash. 

nEtgasamerU;  (2)  to  console,  to 

cheer. 

nai,  the  "negative  adjective;"  see 
pp.  125,  126,  136,  166:  nai  koto 
wa  naif  see  p.  264. 

nai-nai;  private,  secret. 

naka,  inside ;  hence  the  relations 
(friendly  or  otherwise)  existing 
between  people:  no  naka  niy 
inside ;  o  naka^  a  person's  inside ; 
o  naka  ga  sukimashttaf  I  feel 
hungry.  Sometimes  naka  means 
all,  whole,  as  machi-nakay  the 
whole  street. 

nakagai,  a  broker. 


nakagoro,  a  middle  or  inter- 
mediate time. 

nakazna,  a  mate,  a  comrade. 

naka-naka,  very,  more  than 
you  might  think:  naka-naka 
domo,  see  p.  231. 

nakare,  see  bottom  of  p.  164. 
naka-yashiki,     see    p.    388, 

note  14. 

nakereba narimasen,  must; 

see  p.  X70,  N.  B. 

nakddo,  a  middleman,  a  match- 
maker. 

nskka,  to  cry,  to  sing. 

nskkn   nara,   to   die    (lit.   to* 

become  non-existent). 
naxna;  faw,  crude:  nama-byokO, 

see  p.  323,  Nfi  23. 
naxnae,  a  (person's)  name. 
namari,  lead  (the  metal). 

nama-yoi,  half-tipsy. 
naxnban-tetsn,    a    particular 

kind  of  iron,  so  called  because 
brought  to  Japan  by  the  "south- 
ern barbarians*'  {namban)^  i.e., 
the  Portuguese  or  Dutch. 

naxni,  a  wave. 

nam!  (no),  ordinary,  average: 
natni-taitei,  d°, 

namida,  tears :  natnida  wo  kobo- 
SHy  to  shed  tears. 

nan  P  abbrev.  of  nani  ?  what  ? 
nan  da  ka^  somehow  or  other  ; 
nan  de  mo^  anything;  nan  de 
mo  ka  de  moy  anything  and 
everything  (see  also  p.  360,  note 
y) ;  nan-doki  ?  or  nan-ji?  what 


KA 


JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


NE 


o'clock  ?  nan-nen  ?  nan-ri  ?  see  p. 
Ill;    nan  to  Aa,  something  or 
other ;  nan  to  nakUf  without  any 
assignable  cause. 
naiia(tsa),  seven. 

nanda,  nandari>  nandart, 

neg.  verbal  suffixes,  see  p.  165. 
nando,  same  as  nado. 
nani  P  what  ?  nani-buny  somehow, 

please,  indeed,  but  often  a  mere 

expletive ;  nani  ka,  nan(n)i  mo, 

nan{i)  de  mo^  see  p.    50;  nani 

shiro  or  nani  itase^  see  p.   184; 

naniyori,  more  than  anything. 
Nankin,  China  (vulg.). 
nanni,  popular  for  nani ;  nanni 

mo  naif  there  is  nothing  at  all. 
nan-nyo,  men  and  women,  sex. 
nanoka,  vulgar  for  nanuka, 
nanson,  ^  shipwreck :  nansen  ni 

auy  to  be  shipwrecked. 
nanuka,  seven  days,  the  seventh 

day  of  the  month. 
nanzo,  something,  how?  what? 

also  used  for  nado. 
naO;  still,  more ;  see  p.  143. 
naoru,  to  get  well,  to  recover 

(intrans.):  naori-kakarut  to   be 

on  the  road  to  recovery. 
naOSU,  to  amend,  to  rectify,  to 

cure,  to  change. 
nara,  short  for  naraha. 
nara^  sin  oak-tree. 

naraba,  if,  but  see  p.  180. 
narabem,  (2)  to  place  in  a  row. 
narabn,  to  be  in  a  row,  to  be 
parallel. 


narai^  a  habit,  a  usage. 
narasu,  to  ring  (trans.). 
narau,  to  learn. 
narerU;  (2)  to  get  accustomed : 

narett  iru,  to  be  accustomed, 
nari,  or ;  see  p.  237. 
nari  (with  honorific  prefix  o),  see 

P-  235- 
narU;  to  ring  (intrans.). 
narU;  to  be,  see  pp.  217,  180. 
naxn,  to  become,  sometimes   to 

ripen.    For  such  phrases  as  o 

tanomi  ni  naru,  see  p.  243 :  nari- 

kawarUf  to  replace. 

namhodo !  see  p.  232. 
naratake,  as  ...  as  possible,  if 

possible. 
nasal  or  nasat^,  imperative  of 

nasaru ;  see  pp.  167,  236* 

nasaru,  see  pp.  156, 167, 243, 245. 
nasareru;  (2)  see  p.  167. 

nasasd  na,  apparently  non- 
existent. 

nashi,  (there)  is  not ;  see  pp.  119, 
126. 

nashi,  a  pear. 

naem^  to  do. 

natsu,  summer. 

nawa,  a  rope. 

nazeP  why?  naxe  to  iu  to,  be- 
cause, but  see  p.  361,  foot-note  8. 

ne,  a  root. 

116;  price :  ne  wo  tsUkeru,  to  price. 

ne  or  ne  !  an  important  interjec- 
tion ;  see  p.  232. 

neba^  termination  of  the  negative 
condit.  present ;  see  p.  165. 


NE 


[503I 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH    VOCABULARY. 


NI 


nebeya,  a  bedropm. 

netSU,  fever. 

nedai,  a  (European)  bed. 

ne-UChi,  value,  price. 

nedan,  a  price. 

nezTitni,  a  rat. 

nedoko,  a  bed. 

ni,  a  postposition  ;  see  pp.  71,  78, 

nedo(mo),    termination   of   the 

165  (IF  266) ;  also  pp.  43,  96, 181 : 

negative  concessive  present ;  see 

ni  atatte^  ni  itaite,  ni  shitagattey 

p.  165. 

ni  taishite,  ni  yotte,  see  p.  97 ;  ni 

negai,  a  request,  a  desire. 

sum,  see  p.  221 ;  ni  wa,  see  pp. 

negau^  to  request,  to  beg;  some- 

85, 91 ;  ni  oite,  in. 

times  (in  the  mouths  of  the  lower 

ni,   two:  ni-hai,  double;  ni-ban. 

classes)  to  have  to  do  with,  to 

number    two;    ni-bamme,     the 

sell  to. 

second ;  ni-do,  twice  ;  ni-do-me^ 

negi^  an  onion. 

the  second  time ;  nl-wari,  twen- 

nekO, a  cat. 

ty  per  cent ;  ni-wari go-bu,  twen- 

nema^ a  bedroom. 

ty-five  per  cent. 

nemaki)  night-clothes. 

nichi,  a  day  (in  compounds),  as 

nembutsu,  a  kind  of  Buddhist 

nichi-nichi,  daily. 

prayer  or  litany. 

Nichiyobi,  Sunday. 

nemui,  sleepy. 

nigai,  bitter. 

nen^  a  year ;— used  only  in  com- 

nigeha wo  ushinan,  to  lose 

pounds,  as  tonen,  this  year. 

the  power  of  flight. 

nen,  a  thought,  a  wish,  heed  paid : 

ZligerU   (-2)  to  run  away:   nige- 

nen  wo  okosu,  to  have  a  thought 

dasuy  to  begin  to  run  away. 

enter  one's  mind. 

nigira,  to  grasp. 

nengd,  a  "year-name;"  see  p. 

nigiyaka  (na),  lively. 

103. 

nigori, seep.  20;  159. 

nengU,  the  taxes. 

Ni-gWatSU,  February. 

nennei,  a  doll  (in  baby  language). 

Nihon,(iess  elegantly  Nippon), 

nenrei,  age,  years. 

Japan  :  Nihon-go,  the  Japanese 

nera,  (2)  to  go  to  bed,  to  down,  to 

language;     Nihon-jin  2,  ]z,ipzxi- 

sleep :  nete  iru,  to  be  asleep ;  ne- 

ese;    Nihon-koku,   Japan;    Ni- 

tsukarenaiy cannot  get  to  sleep. 

kon  no,  Japanese  (adj.). 

nesan,     lit.    Miss    elder    sister 

niji,  a  rainbow. 

{ane  san),  and  hence  used  as  a 

ni-ju,  twenty. 

half-polith  ealf-familiar  style  of 

ni-Ju-yokka,  twenty-four  days, 

address  in  talking  to  girls. 

the    twenty-fourth    day  of  the 

nessiiia;  zeal. 

month. 

NI 


JAPANESE- 


[5<H] 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


NO 


nikai,  ^  second  storey,  upstairs. 

nikawa,  glue. 

nikll,  flesh,  meat :  nikH-sashi,  a 
fork;  nikitai,  the  6esh  (religi- 
ously speaking,  as  opposed  to 
the  spirit),  niku-ya,  a  butcher's 
shop,  hence  a  butcher. 

nM-motsa),  luggage,  cargo. 

nin,  a  person ; — used  only  in  com- 
position, as  go-nin^  five  people. 

ningezi;  ^  human  being. 

ningyo,  a  doll. 

ni-nim-biki,  pulled  by  two  men. 

ni-nin-nori,  accommodating 
two  persons ; — said  of  a  jtnriki- 
sha. 

ninjin,  a  carrot. 

ninsoku,  a  coolie. 

nioiy  a  smell. 

Nippon^  Japan ;  see  Nihon. 

niramu,  to  glare  at  with  the  eyes. 

niru,  (3)  to  boil  (food,  not  water.). 

nishi;  west:  nishi-kita^  north- 
west ;  nishi-minamif  south-west. 

nishiki,  brocade. 

uite,  the  Classical  form  of  the 
postposition  de. 

ni-tO-biki,  pulled  by  two  horses. 

niwa,  a  court-yard,  a  garden:  ni- 
wa-guchif  the  entrance  to  a 
garden. 

niwatori;  the  barndoor  fowl. 

no,  a  moor :  no-haray  d°. 

no,  a  postposition;  see  pp.  73, 
93.  94»  96 ;  also  p.  99,  132,  136 : 
no  ni,  see  pp.  93,  180 — i ;  for 
no  followed  by  other  postposi- 


tions, see  p.  93 ;  no  nan  no,  see 
p.  78. 

nd !  an  interjection  :  see  p.  232. 

nobasu,  to  stretch  (trans.),  to 
put  off. 

nobera,  (2)  to  narrate. 

nobora,  to  go  up,  to  climb. 

noboseru,  (2)  to  rush  to  the 
head  (said  of  blood). 

nochi^  after,  afterwards:  nochi- 
hodo,  afterwards,  by  and  by :  no- 
chi-zoiy  a  second  wife. 

nodo,  the  neck,  the  throat :  node 
ga  kawaku^  to  be  thirsty. 

nokorazn,  without  exception, 
all ;  conf.  pp.  224,  227. 

nokori,  a  remainder. 

nokoru,  to  remain  over,  to  be  left. 

nokOSQ,  to  leave  behind. 

nomi,  only:  nomi  narazu,  not 
only. 

nomi,  a  flea. 

nomilj  to  drink :  nomi-taosu,  to 
cause  loss  to  a  wine-dealer  by 
drinking  his  liquor  and  not  pay- 
ing for  it ;  tabako  wo  nomu,  to 
smoke. 

nonoshiru,  to  revile. 

norite,  one  who  rides  (on  a 
horse,  in  a  carriage,  etc.). 

norOU,  to  curse. 

noru,  to  ride — on  a  horse,  in  a 
vehicle,  in  a  boat,  etc.  nori-oku- 
reruj  to  be  too  late  (for  the  train, 
steamer,  etc.).  Notte  iru  some- 
times means  simply  to  be  on. 

noshi-kakaru,  to  spring  upon. 


NO 


JAPANESE- 


[  505  ] 
-ENGLISH    VOCABULARY. 


OI 


nOZOmi,   a  wish:    nozomi-dorit 

obOBrUy  {2)  to  remember,  to  feel. 

according  to  one's  wish. 

to  learn  :  oboe-ts&kusut  to  learn 

nUgUU,  to  wipe. 

thoroughly.  . 

nuibari,  a  needje. 

OChakU  (na),  villainous,  ochaku- 

nuixnonOy  needlework. 

tnono,  a  rascal. 

nukern,  (2)  to  slip  out,  to  get 

OChira,  (3)  to  fall;  see  pp.  153, 

pulled  out,  to  get  out  of  joint. 

148. 

nukn,  to  pull  out  (e.g.  a  cork). 

odayaka  (na),  calm,  quiet. 

nureru,  (2)  to  get  wet:  nurete 

Odokasa,  to  frighten. 

iru,  to  be  wet;  coftf.  p.  199. 

0-dokO,  a  large  place. 

nuiimonOy  lacquer-ware. 

Odoroka,  to  be   astonished,   to 

nuru,  to  smear,  to  lacquer. 

be  afraid:  odoroki-awateru,   to 

namly  lukewarm. 

rush  into  a  panic. 

nUBUmUy  to  steal. 

OdorUy  to  dance. 

nUU,  to  sew. 

dfiiku,  going  and  returning :  o- 

nydbd,  a  wife. 

fUku-gippUt  a  return  ticket. 

nyoshii  a  little  girl. 

dgi,  a  fan  of  the  opening    and 

nyotei,    an   empress  or    queen 

shutting  kind. 

regnant. 

ogy6  suru,  (incg.)  Ht.  to  go 

nOZOku,  to  peep. 

through  sideways,  hence  to  stalk 

nyflhij  expenses:  nyuhi  wokake- 

along  through,  to  traverse   in- 

ruy to  spend  money. 

solently. 

o-ha  uchi-karasn,  Ht.  to  wither 

0. 

one's  tail  and  wing,  i.e.,  to  come 

0,  a  tail. 

down    in   the  world  and  have 

0,  an  honorific  prefix ;  see  pp.  239 

nothing  left    but    rags,    to    be 

et  seq.y  and  139. 

dowdy. 

0,  a  masculine  prefix ;  see  p.  26. 

Ohayd  (better  0  hayd)y  good  morn- 

5, a  king. 

ing;  conf.  p.  303,  No.  82  and 

Qj  an  augmentative  prefix ;  see  p. 

foot-note. 

139- 

6hBif  insolence,  arrogance. 

d-atari,  a  great  hit.  . 

5i,  plentiful;   see  p.  247:  oi  ni, 

Oba,  an  aunt. 

very,  chiefly. 

Obasan,  an  old  lady,  granny. 

Oide,  (properly  0  ide^  i.e.,  honour- 

O-Bei, Europe  and  America. 

able  exit)  conf.  p.  245. 

obi,  a  sash,  a  belt. 

Oi-Oi,  gradually. 

obiyakasa,  to  frighten. 

Cira,  a  very  vulgar  word  for  we. 

JDI 


(506] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


OM 


Oi-sen,  money  spent  on  porraing 

wo   okosuj   to  begin  to  feel  a 

some  one. 

desire. 

Oishii,  nice  to  eat,  tasty. 

oku,  to  put,  sometimes  to    lay 

Oite,  in  (a  bookish  word). 

aside  ;  conf  pp.  150,  188. 

Oi-yara,  to  drive  away. 

oka,  a  hundred  thousand. 

Oji,  an.  uncle. 

Oku,  the  inner  part  or  recesses  of 

Ojiisan,  an  old  gentleman,  grand- 

anything,—e.g.  of  a   mountain 

papa. 

rangf. 

djiru,  (3)  to  correspond,  to  an- 

swer, to  suit. 

to  be  in  time. 

oknri-JO,  an    invoice,  a  bill  of 

oka,  a  mound. 

lading. 

Okura,  to  send,  to  give,  to  acr 

company,  to  see   off;   also   to 

spend  (time). 

Mrs.    It  might  also  be  written 

Okiisan,     I  the  upper  class,  my 

0  kami  san. 

okashii  or  okashl  na,  absurd, 

lady,  Lady,  Mrs.;  conf.  p.  250. 

laughable. 

omae,  you ;  see  p.  45. 

6kata,  for  the  most  part,  pro- 

Omba, a  wet-nurse. 

bably. 

omma,  a  stallion. 

Oki,  the  offing,  out  at  sea. 

omocha,  a  toy. 

6kii  or  oki  na,  large:  oki  ui,  very. 

Omoi,  heavy. 

Oklm,  (3)  to  rise,  to  get  up ;  oki- 

Omoi,  thought,  (hence)  affection : 

agarut  to  rise  up  (e.g.  from  the 

omoi  no  hoka^  unexpectedly. 

ground). 

oxnoi-gake*nai,  unexpected. 

dkiaa,  size. 

omODJira,  (3)  to  esteem  greatly. 

0-kiza,  a  severe  wound. 

Omoshiroi,   amusing,    interest- 

okkakera, (2)  to  pursue. 

ing. 

Okkasan,  mamma,  a  mother ;  see 

Omoshiromi,  (a  certain  amount 

pp.  250—1. 

of)  fun,  or  interest. 

Okonai,  coiiduct,  behaviour. 

omoahirosa,  amusement,  fun« 

Okonau,  to  practise  (e.g.  virtue). 

interest,  the  amount  or  degree 

Okoru,  to  arise,  to  take  place. 

of  amusement. 

Okora,  to  get  angry :  okori-dasuy 

Omotai;  heavy. 

to  begin  to  get  angry. 

Omote,  the  front,  out-of-doors  : 

Okosa,  to  rouse,  to  raise :  negai 

omote^maki,  outwardly,  official. 

OM 


[507] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY.  6T 


OmOU,  to  think:  omoi-dasUj  to 
call  to  mind ;  omoi-kirut  to  make 
up  one's  mind;  omoi-tatsu^  to 
resolve;  omoi-yaru^  to  call  to 
mind ;  otnoi-yoran^  unexpected. 

OmOWarerU;  to  venture  to  think. 

dmugi;  barley. 

on,  kindness :  on  wo  shiranai,  to 
be  ungrateful. 

OH;  An  honorific  prefix;  see  p.  243. 

Onaji,  the  same. 

ondori,  ^  cock  bird. 

only  a  devil,  a  goblin. 

onna;  &  woman :  onna  no  ko,  a 
girl. 

OnorO;  self;  also  you    (insulting) 

onsen,  a  hot  spring. 

Ora,  I,  but  see  p.  44. 

oral,  going  and  coming,  a 
thoroughfare :  drai-dome,  no 
thoroughfare :  conf.  p.  22. 

Oranda,  Holland. 

ore,  see  p.  44. 

Oreru,  (2)  to  break  (intrans.). 

Ori,  an  occasion,  a  time ;  ori-orij 

from  time  to  time. 
OXi-au,   to  be  in  certain  mutual 

relations,  e.  g.  ori-aimasen,  they 

do  not  get  on  well  together. 
OXifiislii,  on  a  certain  occasion, 

just  then. 
Orim,  (3)  to  descend. 
Orosha,  Russia. 

oroaoka  (na),  remiss. 

OrOSU,  to  lower,  hence  to  launch. 

Oru,  to  be ;  see  pp.  186,  217,  245  : 

. .  .ni  orarenaiy  cannot  do  without. 


OrQ;  to  break  (trans.),  to  pluck. 
Osamem,  (2)  to  pacify,  hence  to 

govern,  to  guide;    also  to  put 

away. 
O'SaWagi,  confiision,  a  hubbub. 
dse,  something  said  (honor.). 

Oserareru,  honorific  for  to  say, 

(irreg.)  see  pp.  167,  244,  24$. 

Oshie,  instruction  doctrine,  a  re- 
ligion. 

OshierU;  (2)  to  teach,  to  show 
how. 

Oshi-gami,  blotting-paper. 

Oshil,  regrettable :  oskii  koto  desn 
nel  what  a  pity! 

OShimu,  to  regret,  to  grudge. 

OshO;  a  Buddhist  priest. 

OBOi,  late. 

OBOrerU,  (2)  to  fear  :  osore-irUy  to 
be  filled  with  dread. 

osoroahii,  frightful. 

Osshara,  to  say  (honorific),  see 
pp.  167,  244,  245,  N.  B. 

OSU,  male. 

OSU,  to  ptish. 

Oto,  a  sound,  a  noise :  Oto  ga 
surUf  there  is  a  noise. 

Otoko,  a  man :  otoko-buri,  a  man- 
ly air  ;  otoko  no  kOy  a  boy. 

Otona,  a  grown-up  person. 

otonashii,  good  (of  a  child), 
quiet  in  behaviour. 

otono,  the  Mikado's  palace,  a 
feudal  lord. 

OtoroerU,(2)  to  decline  (intrails.), 
to  grow  feeble. 

OtOSU,  to  let  fall. 


OT 


JAPANESE- 


[508] 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


RI 


Ototoi,  the  day  before  yesterday. 
Ototocdli;  the  year  before  last. 
OtdtO,  a  younger  brother. 
Otottaan,  papa»  ^  father, ;  conf. 

p.  250. 
otto,  a  husband ;  but  see  p.  250. 
Oa,  to  pursue. 
d-waral,  a  good  laugh. 
OWari;  the  end. 
OWara,    to    end    (intrans.    and 

trans.). 
Oya,  a  parent:  oya-ko,  parents  and 

children:  oya-ko-rashii,  like  or 

suitable  to  parents  and  children. 
oyaji;  a  father;  see  pp.  250—1. 
oya(-oya)!  an  interjection-,  see 

p.  233- 
oyobosu^  to  cause  to  reach,  to 

extend  to  (trans.). 
oyobu,  to  reach  (intrans.):  sore 

ni  wa  oyobimasefit  there  is  no 

need  to  do  that. 
oyoga,  to  swim. 
oyOSO,  or  5y0S0,  altogether,  on 

the  whole,  in  the  main. 
dzara,  a  dish  (large  plate). 
dzei,  a  crowd. 

P. 

pan,  bread,  conf.  bottom  of  p.  230 : 
pan-ya,  a  bakery,  hence  a  baker. 

pata(t)tO,  flop,  bang. 

penki,  paint ;  conf.  p.  25. 

pensMrU,  a  pencil  (from  the 
English  word). 

pika-pika,)  with  a   flash,  glit- 

pikattO,     i  teringly. 


ra^  a  particle  of  vagueness  or  plu- 
rality ;  see  pp.  28,  50. 

rai,  thunder. 

rai,  next  (in  composition),  as  rai- 
nen,  next  year. 

rambO,  disorderly  conduct :  ram- 
bo  na^  wild,  riotous ;  rambd'tiin^ 
a  turbulent  fellow. 

rampu,  a  lamp  (from  the  English 
word):  rampu  too  tsukerUy  to 
light  a  lamp. 

ramune,  lemonade  (from  the 
English  word). 

rasha,  woollen  cloth. 

rashii,  a  suffix ;  see  p.  130. 

reif  ceremonies,  politeness, 
thanks :  o  rei  wo  tu,  to  thank. 

rei,  a  precedent,  an  example. 

reifiika,  full  dress,  dress  clothes. 

reisha,  cold  sake. 

rekishi;  history. 

renga,  a  brick. 

renju,  a  company,  associates. 

ri,  a  Japanese  league  of  nearly 
2}  miles  English. 

rieki,  profit,  advantage. 

rigaku,  physical  science:  rigaku- 
tetsUgaku,  natural  philosophy. 

rikiryG,  degree  of  strength,  abi- 
lity. 

rikken-seiji,  constitutional  go- 
vernment. 

rik6  (na),  'cute,  intelligent. 

rika,  rare  for  rokUf  six. 


RI 


JAPANESE- 


IS09] 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


SA 


rika,  Isind :  riku-age  sum,  to  land 

ronsha;  a  collection  of  articles, 

(trans.). 

lectures,  or  addresses. 

likngim,  an  army. 

rdshi,  death  in  prison  iroshisuru, 

rikatsu,  a  reason;  arguing  (of- 

to die  in  prison. 

ten  in  a  bad  sense) :  rikutsu  wo 

rOBOku,  a  candle. 

iUf  to  quibble. 

rdsaru,  to  take  trouble. 

ringO,  an  apple. 

r6(ya),  prison. 

xinjin,  ^  neighbour. 

rasa,  absent :  rusu-han,  a  care- 

rinshoku, stinginess. 

taker  ;  rusU'ChUj  while  absent. 

rippa(na),  splendid. 

ry6,  a  dragon. 

rippnka,  anger:   rippuku    sum, 

ryG,   both,  as    in    ryo-ho,    both 

to  get  angry. 

(sides);   ryo-nin,  both   people; 

ro,  an    imperative    termination, 

ryo'te,  both  hands. 

see  p.  163. 

ryfiji,  a  consul :  ryojikwan,  a  con- 

ro,   an    upper     storey    with    a 

sulate. 

gallery,  a  large  hall. 

ryOken,  judgment,  opinion,  in- 

rO, trouble. 

tention,  sometimes  excuse. 

roji,  an  alley. 

ryokO,  a  journey:  (ryoko-)menjd. 

rdjiXl;  an  old  man  :  go  rvfin,  your 

SL  passport ;  ryoko  suru,  to  travel. 

father. 

ryGli,  cooking :  ryori-nin,  acook ; 

rdka,  a  passage  (in  a  house),  a 

ryori-ya^  a  restaurant ;  rybri  wo 

corridor. 

surUf  to  cook. 

roka,  six. 

rydshin,  both  parents. 

Roka-gwatsa,  June. 

rytUsG,  prevalence,  fashion ;  ryu- 

roka-ju,  sixty. 

kobyoy  an  epidemic  disease ;  ryfi- 

ROmi^i,    the     Roman    alpha- 

ko sum,  to  be  in  fashion,   to 

bet. 

prevail. 

romei,    lit.  dew  life,  hence    a 

RyftkyQ,  the  Loochoo  Islands. 

scanty  livelihood :  romei  wo  tsu- 

S. 

nagUy  to  eke  out  a  subsistence. 

ron,  argument,  opinion. 

sa^  a  suffix  used  to  form  abstract 

RongO,  the  Confucian  Analects. 

nouns ;  see  p.  35. 

rdnin,  a  wandering  samurai  who 

sa !  or  sa !  an  interjection ;  see  p. 

serves  no  particular  lord. 

233- 

rOnJirU,  (3)  to  argue :  ronji-tate- 

sabaki,  a  judicial  decision. 

ruy  to  start  an  idea. 

sabakU,   to  manage,   to  decide 

ronrigaka,  logic. 

the  merits  of. 

SA 


[510] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


SA 


Babi,  rust. 

sabishii,  lonely,  dull. 
SabnrO,  a  man's  name ;  see  p.  35* 
sadaniarUy  to  be  fixed,  settled. 

Badamem,  (2)  to  fix,  to  settle. 
Badameahi,   or    sadametei 

positively,  surely^ 
sae,  even  (adverb),  if  only. 
saeru,  (2)  to  be  clear  and  cold, 

(hence)  calm  and  skilful. 
sagaru,  to  descend,  (hence)  to -go 

away, 
sagasu,  to  seek,  to  look  for. 
gagerOy  (2)  to  lower,    to   hang 

down  (trans.) 
sai,  a  humble  word  for  wife :  sai' 

shij.  wife  and  children. 
saiohi,  intelligence. 
Baiknn,   an    honorific  word  for 

wife,  conf.  p.  250. 
sairei,  a  religious  festival. 
saishO,  the  beginning. 
SaisokU,  urging  on  :  saisoku  surUf 

to  urge  on,  to  hurry  up  (trans.). 
saiwai,  good  luck,  happiness. 
•aizen,  the  very  beginning,  be- 
fore. 
BS^i;  a  spoon:  saji  wo  toru,  to 

practise  as  a  physician,  conf.  p. 

400,  note  6. 
saka,  the  hilly  part  of  a  road,  an 

ascent. 
sakan  (na),  prosperous:  sakan 

nit  greatly. 
sakana,    anything   taken    with 

sake,     hence    more    especially 

fish. 


sakarau,  to  resist. 

sakate,  a  tip  (to  a  servant,  etc.). 
saka-ya,  a  grog-shop. 
sakazukiy  a  sa^^-cup. 

aaikBy  rice -beer,  also  alcoholic 
liquors  in  general :  sake-zuki, 
fondness  for  strong-drink,  a  to- 
per ;  sake  ni  you,  to  get  tipsy. 

sake,  a  salmon. 

sakebu,  to  yell. 

saki,  front,  before,  on  ahead,  fur- 
ther, a  cape :  0  saki,  see  p.  242  ; 
saki  sama,  the  gentleman  at  the 
other  end. 

saki-hodo,  previously,  a  short 
while  ago. 

sakki,  emph.  for  saki, 

sakkon,  yesterday  and  to-day. 

Baku,  to  blossom. 

Baku,  to  tear  (trans.) 

BaJcu,  last  (in-  composition),  as 
sakubatij  last  night;  sakujitsu, 
yesterday ;  sakunen,  last  year. 

Bakura,  a  cherry-tree. 

Baxna;  way,  fashion ;  also  Mr., 
Mrs.,  Miss ;  see  pp.  252  and  241: 
sama-zama,  all  sorts. 

samaBU,  to  cool  (trans.). 

BamatagB,  a  hindrance :  sama- 
tage  wo  sum,  to  hinder. 

Bamatagem,  (2)  to  hinder. 

Bam-bai,  treble. 

Bameru,  (2)  to  cool  (Intrans.),  to 

fade :.  me  ga  sameru,  to  wake. 
Bamui,  cold; — said  only  of  the 

weather  or  of  one's  own  feelings. 
Bamurai,    a   gentleman  of  the 


SA 


[5"] 

JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


SA" 


military  caste  under  the  feudal 

BasOU,  to  take  along  with  one,  to 

system,  a  warrior. 

invite :  sasoi'dasUj  d**. 

samusa,  coldness,  the  degree  of 

BaBshira,  (3)  to  guess. 

cold. 

BaBU,  to  thrust,  to  sting ;  to  carry 

samnshiij  lonely,  dull. 

(e.  g.  a  sword) :  sashi-ageru^  to 

san^    three:    sam-hu^    three    per 

present  (to  a  superior) ;  sashu 

cent ;  san-doy  thrice ;  san-do-me, 

dasu,  to  thrust  forward;  sashi- 

the    third    time ;     san-nin-mae; 

ireguchi,  the  opening  (of  a  post- 

portions    for    three;    san-wari. 

box,  etc.). 

thirty  per  cent ;  san-wari  go-bu^ 

BaBnga  (ni),  even  so,  even  such. 

thirty-five  per  cent. 

howsoever.                                  « 

san,  short  for  sama;  see  p.  252. 

Bata,  an  order,  a  decision,  infor- 

Ban, ^  mountain,  (in  composition), 

mation. 

as  Fuji'saHy  Mount  Fuji. 

BatC;  well !  (at  the  beginning  of 

San-gWatBH,  March. 

a  sentence). 

san-ju,  thirty. 

BatO,  a  village. 

sankei  sura,  (irreg.)  to  go  to  a 

BatO,  sugar. 

temple  for  worship. 

Batori,   comprehension,  discern^ 

Sansei  BUrU,  (Jn-eg.)  to  approve, 

ment  of  (religious)  truth :  satori 

to  second  (a  motion). 

wo  hiraku,  to  come  to  a  know- 

Bappari, quite,  (with  a  negative) 

ledge  of  the  truth  (Buddh.).    ^  . 

not  at  all. 

sara,  a  plate. 

BatBU,  paper-money :  satsu-ire^  a 

Barn,  a  monkey. 

pocket-book. 

Bara,  to  leave  (a  place),  hence  to 

Satsuma-imo,  a  sweet  potato. 

be  distant  from. 

Bawagasn^  to  disturb,  to  makA 

Basa,  bamboo-grass. 

turbulent. 

saBSd,  a  trifle :  sasai  na  (or  fto), 

Bawagi,  a  fuss,  a  row- 

trifling. 

Bawani,     to     strike    or    clash 

BaBayakU,  to  whisper. 

against,  to  touch. 

BaserU,   (2)  to  cause  to  do,  to 

Bayo,  (a  contraction  of  sono  yd'^ 

let. 

that  way)  so :    sayo  de  goxai- 

Bashitara,  a  word  of  the  Written 

masU,  that  is  so,  yes ;  sayo  df 

Language  meaning  special,  par- 

goxaimasetiy  no ;    sayo  sa^   oh  I 

ticular. 

yes,  of  course. 

BaBhizU,    a  command,  dictates. 

BayGnara,  goodbye;    conf.    p. 

mformation. 

224. 

6A 


[5X2] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


SE 


sazo,  indeed,  surely,  doubtless. 

seizon,  existence :  seixon  suru,  to 

sebone,  the  spine,  backbone. 

exist. 

segare,  a  humble  word  for  son ; 

sekai,  [the  world:  seken  narete 
seken,  >  im,  to  be  used  to    the 

conf.  p.  250. 

sei,  a  family  name. 

ways  of  the  world. 

sei,  cause,  effect. 

seki,  a  cough:  seki  ga  deru,  to 

sei;  stature :  sei  no  htkui,  short  (of 

cough. 

stature) ;  sei  no  takaiy  tall. 

seki,  a  barrier :  seki-moth  a  guard 

sei,  pure    (used  chiefly  in  com- 

at a  barrier. 

pounds). 

sekitan,  coal. 

sei,  make,  manufacture:  seisuru, 

sekkaka,   special   pains,  signal 

to  manufacture. 

kindness,  on  purpose. 

seibansan,  the  eucharist. 

sekken,  thrift,  economy :  sekken 

seibatBU,  a  living  being. 

wo  okonau,  to  be  thrifty. 

sei-daka,  surds  and  sonants ;  see 

sekkyd,  a  sermon :  sekkyo  suru. 

p.  20,  first  footnote. 

to  preach. 

seidO,      government,      political 

semai,  narrow,  small. 

forms  or  constitution. 

semete,  at  any  rate,  at  least, 

seilir^^^^^""^^"** 

at  most ;  conf.  p.  224. 
semem,  (2)  to  treat  with  rigour, 

seijin,  a  sage,  a  philosopher. 

to  press  upon. 

seiki,  a  century. 

semmon,  a  specialty  (in  learn- 

seinen, the  prime  of  life,  youth. 

ing). 

seireiten,  a  sacrament. 

sempd;  the  other   party,  those 

seiiyoka,  strength. 

people. 

seishin,  the  stars  (and  constella- 

sen, a  thousand. 

tions). 

sen,  a  cent. 

sei-shitsa,    character,    disposi- 

senSkka, the  back  (of  the  body). 

tion,  nature. 

sendo,  the  master   of  a   junk. 

Seisho,  the  Holy  Scriptures. 

hence  a  boatman. 

sei-BUi,  see  p.  32. 

senjitsa,  the  other  day. 

sei-U-kei,  a  barometer. 

senkokU,  a  little  while  ago. 

Seiyd,    Western    or    European 

senkyOshi,  a  clergyman,  a  mis- 

countries    generally,     Europe, 

sionary. 

America :  Seiyo-jin,  a  European, 

senrei,  baptism :  senrei  wo  ukeru. 

an     American;      SHyd-snkuri, 

to  be  baptised. 

foreign-built. 

senro,  a  line  of  railway. 

SE 


[  5'3  ] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


SHI 


sensaku,  i^sesachisensakusurut 

to  make  researches. 

member  of  a  society. 

senBei,    an    elder,    a    teacher, 

Shaka    Sama,      the    Buddha 

hence  you,  he ;  see  p.  45. 

S4kya  Muni. 

sensa,  a  fen,  see  dgi. 

shake,  (properly  sake)  a  salmon. 

sentakU;  the  washing  of  clothes : 

shakkin,  a  debt. 

sentaku-ya,  a  washerman;  sen- 

shaka,  a  foot  (measurement). 

taku  suruj  to  wash  (clothes). 

senzo,  an  ancestor. 

phrases  as  gaki^ha  shakwai,  the 

seppO,  a  sermon. 

learned  world. 

seppuka,  the  sstme  as  hara-kiri, 

Shamisen,  (properly  samisen),  a 

see  p.  33. 

kind  of  banjo. 

seri-Uri,  an  auction. 

shampan,  champagne  (jErom  the 

seshimera,  (2)  to  cause  to  do. 

,  French). 

sessha;  it  lit.  the  awkward  per- 

ShappOj a  hat  (from  the  French 

son. 

chapeau). 

setomono,  porcelain. 

sharei,  a  fee,  a  salary. 

setsU,  an  occasion,  a  time. 

shasetsu,  a  leading  article. 

setsu,  an  opinion. 

Shashin,  a  photograph  :  shashin- 

setsa,  awkward;  conf.  p.  251. 

basami,  a  photograph-holder  or 

setsnmei,  an  explanation  :  setsu- 

frame;    shaskin-ya,    a    photo- 

mei suruj  to  explain. 

grapher. 

setta,  sandals  soled  with  leather  : 

Shatsu,  a  shirt  (from  the  Engl. 

•  setta-baki,  wearing  such  sandals. 

word). 

settakU,  my  house;  see  p.  251. 

shi,  death. 

sewa,  help,  work :  sewa  ni  naru. 

shi,  four. 

to  be  helped  by ;  sewa  ga  yakeru. 

shi,  a  Chinese  poem. 

to  be  busy  and  anxious:  sewa 

shi,    Mr.   (in   the  Written   Lan- 

wo sum  (or   yaku)y  to  help;  0 

guage). 

sewa  sama,  see  p.  305,  No.  96. 

shlj  a  viscount. 

sha,  a    company,    a  society,   a 

Bhi,  a  postposition  ;  see  p.  78. 

firm. 

shl^    a  Classical  termination   of 

shaberi;  chatter,  a  chatter-box. 

adjectives;  seep.  119. 

shaberU,  to  chatter. 

shi,  the  indefinite  form  of  suru^ 

shabon,  soap,  (from  the  Spanish 

to  do. 

jabon). 

shi-awase,  good  fortune,  lucky. 

shaftl,  ajmn^ls^a-man. 

Shiba,  turf,  grass. 

SHI 


[514I 

JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


SHI 


Bhibarakn,  some  time  (whether 
short  or  long):  makoio  ni  ski- 
barakUf  see  bottom  of  p.  262. 

ahibara,  to  tie. 

shibashi,  &  short  while. 

shibomu,  to  wither. 

shi-'ban  no  iohl,  a  quarter  (j^). 

ahichi,  seven. 

Shicbi-gwatsa,  July. 

Sbicbi-Jil,  seventy. 

abichimotSU;  something  pawn- 
ed, a  mortgage. 

abichQy  (the  middle  of)  the 
streets. 

flhidai,  arrangement,  state,(hence) 
according  to :  shidai  nif  accord- 
ing to,  gradually. 

shigai,  a  corpse. 

sfaigi,  a  snipe. 

ahi-gO^  four  or  five. 

sbigoka-,  extremely,  very. 

8bi-gWatSU,  April. 

whihainin,  the  manager  of  a 
commercial  house. 

ahi-ho  bap-po,  all  (lit.  four  and 
eight)  sides. 

flbibon,  capital  (a  fund  of 
money). 

abii  (no  ki),  a  species  of  live  oak. 

sbii,  an  adjective  suiBx,  see  p. 
130. 

ghiini;  (3)  to  urge,  to  try,  to  force. 
-  abiite,  urgently,  with  violence. 

abiju,  constantly. 

Sbi-Ju,  forty. 

alUka,  (with  afneg.),  nothing  but, 
only.    Some  pronounce  shikya* 


Sbika,  a  deer,  a  stag. 
sbikakU,  four  sides :  shikaku  na 
or  no,  square. 

sblkara,  to  scold. 

Bbikasbi,  but  see  p.  236 :  skika- 

shi-nagara,  but,  nevertheless. 
sbikata,  a  way  of  doing :  shtkaia 

ga  naiy  there  is  nothing  to  be 

done,  no  help  for  it ;  cont  pp.  5 

and  144. 
sbiken,  an  examination,  an  ex> 

periment. 
sbikiy  a  ceremony. 
sbiki-monOy  lit.  a  spread  thing, 

hence  a  carpet,   a  table-cloth, 

etc. 
Sbikiri  (ni),  perpetually. 
sbi-kitari,   a   custom   that  has 

been  handed  down. 
sbikkari,  firm,  tight:   skikkari 

shtta,  firm. 
sbikkei,   rudeness:   shikkei  na, 

rude,  impolite. 
sbikken,    a    regent   (in   olden 

times) ;  see  p.  354,  note  3. 
abi-komu,  to  put  into,  to  arrange 
.   inside. 

sbikwan,  an  ofiBcial. 
sbikya,  see  skika  (i). 
sbima,  an  island. 
sbimai,    the   end:    md  shimm, 

see  p.  302,  No.  6g. 
sbimatSU,   the    beginning   and 

end,  the  whole  of  any  affair. 
sbimau,  to  finish ;  conf.  p.  189. 
abimbun,  news,  a  newspaper: 

shimbunyaf  a  newspaper  m^. 


SHI 


JAPANESE- 


[515] 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


SHI 


shimbaxishi,  &  newspaper. 

shime-daka,  a  sum  total. 

Bhimeppoi,  damp. 

ahimera,  (2)  to  fasten,  to  close, 
hence  to  put  or  have  on  round 
the  waist:  shime-kiru,  to  close 
up,  to  shut  to. 

shimmitsa  (na),  intimate. 

shiinO,  (hoar-)firo8t ;  shimo-dokej 
thaw ;  shimo  ga  furu,  to  freeze. 

Bhimo,  below. 

shimpai,  anxiety,  sorrow :  shim- 
pat  surUt  to  be  anxious  or  trou- 
bled; shimpai  ni  naruj  ta  become 
anxious. 

ahimpO;  progress:  shimpo  suru^ 
to  progress. 

Shimpu,  a  &ther, — ^by  birth,  not 
by  adoption ;  go  shimpu  {sama), 
your  father. 

shin,  new,  (in  composition),  as 
shinnen,  the  new  year. 

shin,  the  heart ;  hence  the  wick 
of  a  lamp. 

shin  (no),  true,  real:  shin  nit 
really. 

shina,  a  kind,  hence  more  fre- 
quently an  article,  goods :  shina- 
nwnOf  dp, 

SMna,  China:  Shina-jin^  a 
Chinaman. 

shin-ai;  family  affection. 

shinch'Q,  brass:  shinchfi-zukuri^ 
arranged  or  fastened  with  brass. 

shindai;  an  estate,  property : 
shindai'kagiri  ni  naru,  to  be- 
come bankrupt. 


shinja,  a  believer. 
shinjirn,  (3)  to  believe. 
shinjO   BUrU,  (Irreg.)  to  present 

respectfully  to  a  superior;   set 

12  and  245. 

sliinki  (na),  new. 

shinkO,  belief:  shinkd-shin^  a 
believing  heart ;  shinkd  suruy  to 
believe. 

sbinkwa,  evolution :  shinkwa- 
ron,  the  doctrine  of  evolution. 

Bhinnen,  the  new  year. 

shinrei,  the  soul. 

Bhinri,  truth. 

shinnii,  a  relation,  a  kinsman. ' 

shinsetsu,  kindness:  shinsetsu 
nay  kind. 

Bhinshi,  a  gentleman. 

Shintd,  the  name  of  the  alxj- 
riginal  religion  of  the  Japanese, 
prior  to  the  introduction  of  Bud- 
dhism. It  means  **  the  way  df 
the  gods.'* 

Bhintmi,  (Irreg.)  to  die ;  see  pp. 
168,  193,  207:  shini-sokonaUt 
barely  to  escape  death. 

shinzd;  (with  honorific  ^o  pre- 
fixed), a  married  woman  of  the 
upper  middle  class,  Mrs. 

Shinza-bekl,  credible. 

BhiO,  salt,  salt  water,  the  tide. 

BhiraB6,  an  intimation,  an  an* 
nouncement.  • 

Bhirasem,  (2)  to  inform. 

shireta,  self-evident. 

Bhirimochi  wo  tsiiku,  to  fall 

down  in  a  sitting  position. 


6HI 


JAPANESE- 


-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


SHO 


shjra,  familiar  for  Shiran^  don't 
know. 

flhira-^,  white  hair :  conf.  p*  24. 

Bhira-gikQy  a  white  chrysan- 
themum. 

Bhiro,  a  castle. 

shirOy  imper.  of  suru,  to  do :  nani 
shiro,  see  p.  184. 

shiroi,  white. 

shiromi,  a  tinge  of  whiteness. 

ahiromono,  merchandise. 

shirosa,  whiteness,  the  degree 
of  whiteness. 

Shira,  to  know:  shirenaif  can't  telL 

shiroiBhi,  a  sign,  a  mark. 

ahiahaku,  the  title  of  viscount. 

Bhi-shO,  see  p.  420,  note  10. 

shishOi  a  teacher. 

ghis6,  a  thought. 

flhisoka,  (with  honorific  prefix 
go)  your  son ;  conf.  p.  250. 

shison,  a  descendant. 

shita,  the  under  or  lower  part  of 
anything,  downstairs :  no  shlta 
niy  below,  underneath ;  shiia  no 
hoy  the  bottom,  beneath. 

shlta,  the  tongue:  shita-uchi 
surUf  to  lick  one's  chops. 

flhitagau,  to  follow,  to  conform, 
to  obey:  ni  shitagatte,  accord- 
ing to. 

flhltagi;  under-clothing. 

shitakn,  preparations:  shitaku 
wo  stirUf  to  prepare. 

Bhitaxi;  sandal-wood. 

BhitashUi  intimate,  friendly. 

shita-aara,  a  saucer. 


ahita-zabon,  drawers  (under- 
clothing). 

shitETU,  a  room,  a  cabin. 

shitSUrei,  rudeness :  shitsurei 
na,  rude,  impolite. 

shiyagain,  equivalent  to  XMTM, 
yagaru  being  a  contemptuous 
and  vulgar  suffix,  and  a  (for  a) 
adding  to  the  lowness  of  the  ex- 
pression. 

shiyd,  a  way  of  doing :  skiyd  ga 
naif  there  is  no  help  for  it,  no- 
thing to  be  done ;  see  also  pp. 
144  and  177. 

Bhi-ytly  female  or  male:  shiyu- 
tota,  sexual  selection  (Darwin). 

Shizen,  spontaneity:  shizen  no, 
spontaneous,  natural ;  shizen- 
tota,  natural  selection. 

Bhizoka  (na),  quiet. 

ahizaznara,  to  quiet  down  (in* 
trans.). 

shizoxnu,  to  sink  (intrans.). 

sho,  all ; — used  only  in  composi- 
tion, as  shokoku,  all  countries.  • 

shdbai;  trade:  shobai-gara,  the 
nature  of  a  trade,  appropriate  to 
a  certain  trade. 

shOchi,  consent,  assent,  com- 
prehension :  shochi  surUf  to  con- 
sent, etc. 

shOgan,  the  title  (meaning 
literally  generalissimo)  of  the 
de  facto  military  rulers  of  Japan 
from  the  end  of  the  twelfth 
century  to  A.D.  1868. 

Shd-gwatsu,  January. 


SHO 


JAPANBSE- 


[5x7] 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY, 


SHU 


shOji,  the  wood  and    paper  or 

shU,    rarely    shfl,  also   sbi,  a 

glass     slides     which     enclose 

pluralising  suffix ;  see  p.  23f 

a   Japanese  room. 

Qh%  a  province,  a  country. 

shoji  sura,  (irrego  to  possess. 

shubiki,  a  boundary  line   on  a 

shOjikiy    honesty:    shqjiki     na^ 

map :      shubiki-gwai,     outside 

honest. 

"  treaty  limits ;"  shubiki-nai,  in- 

shdjiru, (3)  to  produce,  to  be 

side  treaty  limits. 

produced,  to  arise. 

shilgakn,  giving  oneself  up  to 

shoken,  reading  (books) :  shaken 

study :  shOgaku  suruy  to  pursue 

suru,  to  read. 

one's  studies. 

Shoki,  a  secretary. 

ahtd,  intestion,  meaning,  object. 

shdko,  a  proof. 

Bhokabutsu,  a  plant. 

hold. 

Shokama,  a  dining-room. 

shukan,  a  week. 

shokon,  gentlemen,  Sirs,  all  of 

disinfectant. 

you. 

Sliukke,  a  Buddhist  priest. 

BhomotsU,  a  book. 

shukkin  suruy  to  go  to  office. 

shOnizi,  a  merchant,  a  dealer. 

shiikn,  a  post-town. 

shdnin,  a  Buddhist  saint. 

shukwai,  a  meeting. 

shosei,  a  student 

shukyd,  religion,   a  sect:   shu- 

shdsei,  I,  Ht.  junior. 

kyo-tetsugakn,   religious    philo- 

shoseil; after  all,  at  last. 

sophy. 

Bhdsetsa,  a  novel. 

shiikytl,  conservative,  a  tory. 

shdsho,  a  certificate. 

shfLmon,  a  sect,  a  religion. 

shOshd,  a  little. 

shumi,  a  sort. 

shdshd,  a  general  or  admiral  of 

shusen,   assistance:   shusen   wo 

the  third  rank. 

suru,  to  assist. 

Shote^  the  beginning. 

shu-shoka,  wine  and  lust. 

shdyu,    soy    (our   word    comes 

shusseki,  going  to  business. 

from  the  Japanese.). 

BhUSShOi  birth. 

aha,  a  master:   Shu  no  bansan 

shutchd,     going    to    business: 

the  Lord's  supper. 

shutcho   suruj  to    go    to    one's 

bIiU;  the  auxiliary   numeral   for 

store,  etc. 

poems. 

shiltO,  vaccination. 

shu,  Chin,  for  sake,  strong  liquor. 

Shato,  a  iatU«rrin4aw. 

SHU 


tr8  1 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


SO 


ahQtome,  ^  mother-in-law. 

Shnttatsn,  starting,  departure: 
shuttatsu  suruy  to  start. 

BO,  rough;  see  p.  251. 

80,  (a  contraction  of  sayo^  itself  a 
contraction  of  sono  yd)  like  that, 
in  that  way,  so :  s5  da  ox  so  desU, 
that  is  so,  yes;  sd  desU  ka?  is 
that  so  ?  indeed ;  soja  nai^  ot  so 
ja  goxaimaseHf  that  is  not  so, 
no ;  so  in,  that  kind  of,  such  as 
that :  so  ka  moy  so  ka  to^  see  p. 
306,  Nos.  log  and  no:  so  koj 
this,  that  and  the  other ;  so  sa  / 
yes  indeed ;  so  shtte^  see  pp.  224 
and  236 ;  so  wa  ikan^  that  won't 
do. 

SO,  the  auxiliary  numeral  for 
boats  and  ships. 

sd  (na),  a  termination  of  quasi- 
adjectives,  see  pp.  133, 178, 161 ; 
also  used  separately,  as  *Mt 
would  seem  that, "see pp.  178 — 9. 

BOba,  alongside. 

85ba,  the  market  price,  ^the  cur- 
rent rate. 

BObiem,  (2)  to  stretch  up,  to 
reach  up  (intrant.). 

BOCha,  inferior  tea. 

BOChi,  or  sochira^  there. 

flOda-xniza,  soda-water. 

BOdan,  consultation :  sodan  suru, 

'^  to  hold  a  consultation. 

BOdatem,  (2)  to  bring  up. 

BOdatsU,  to  be  brought  up,  to 
grow  up. 

BddO,  a  row,  a  tumult. 


BOhan,  see  bottom  of  p.  251. 

bOIiO,  both  sides. 

BOji,  cleansing :  sdji  wo  suruj  to 
cleanse. 

Sdken  (na),  healthy,  vigorous. 

SOkO,  there. 

BOko,  the  bottom  (e.g.  of  a  lake)  \ 
soko-biey  an  under-chill. 

BOkoera,  thereabouts. 

SOkn,  the  auxiliary  numeral  for 
all  sorts  of  foot-gear. 

SOmatBU,  coarseness :  somatsu 
na,  coarse,  rude. 

someru,  (2)  to  dye. 

BOmmei;  (your)  august  name. 

BdxnokU,  herbs  and  trees,  vege- 
tation. 

SOU;  loss,  especially  pecuniary 
loss. 

son,  a  village, — ^the  auxiliary 
numeral  for  mura^  village. 

BOnaem,  (2)  to  provide ;  (some- 
times) to  be  provided  with. 

sonata,  you. 

SOnJim,  (3)  to  spoil  (trans,  and 

intrans.). 
BOnna,  that  kind  of,  such  as  that : 

sonna  ni,  so  (much). 
SOnnara,  (for  so  nara),  if  that  is 

so,  well  then. 
SOnO,  that  (adj.):  sono  hd^  you 

(in  legal  parlance). 
BOnshitsU,  pecuniary  loss. 
SOO,  suitability,  a    fair  amount: 

sod  na,  fit,  proper. 
BOra,  the  sky :  sora-iro,  sky-blue. 
sore,  that  (subst.),  see  p.  49 :  son 


so 


JAPANESE- 


[519] 
-ENGLISH    VOCABULARY. 


su 


de  wa,  that  being  so,  then ;  sore 

Sfl,  a  number. 

kara,  after  that,  and  then,  next ; 

SUbarashii,  splendid,  very. 

sore  made  no  koto^  see  p.  189. 

subem,  to  slide,  to  slip. 

For    the    interjectional    use  of 

SUbera,  (2)  to  unite  in  one. 

sore,  see  p.  234. 

sabe-sube  shita,  smooth. 

BOrobon,  an  abacus. 

SUbete,  altogether,  all. 

BOroe,  a  match,  a  set :  see  also  p. 

BUde  ni,  already. 

no. 

sue,  the  end  or  tip  of  a  thing. 

SOroerU,  (2)  to  put  in  order,  to 

saera,  (2)  to  set,  to  place. 

arrange. 

SUgi,  past,  after. 

SOron,  to  be  in  order,  to  be  all 

SUgi,  the  cryptomeria  tree. 

in  their  places. 

sngira,  (3)  to  exceed.    Suffixed 

SOrO-BOrO,  leisurely,  slowly. 

to  an  adjective  or  verb,  it  may 

SOrUy  to  shave. 

be  rendered  by  too  or  too  much, 

SOiya !  there  now  I  see  p.  234. 

as  yo-sugirUf  to  be  too  good; 

S5ry6,  an  eldest  son. 

nomi'Sugiru,  to  drink  too  much. 

Bdshi,  a  magazine,  a  journal. 

SUga  (ni  or  to),  immediately. 

Sdshild,  a  funeral. 

snidO,  an  aqueduct. 

SOshirU;  to  blame,  to  revile. 

SUiftl,  a  seaman,  a  common  sail- 

SOshite,   having  done    so,  and 

or. 

(then) ;  conf.  p.  224, 236. 

snikwa,  a  watermelon. 

SOSO,  (also  corruptly  soso),  coarse- 

sulmono, soup. 

ness:  0  soso  samtty  excuse  the 

sairyd,  a  conjecture :  suiryo  suru^ 

coarseness  of  my  poor  entertain- 

to suppose. 

ment. 

SUlshO,  a  crystal. 

s6tai  (no),  whole. 

SoiyObi,  Wednesday. 

goto,  the   exterior,  out-of-doors : 

SUji,  a  line ;  see  also  p.  no. 

no  soto  nij  outside  of. 

Silki,  fond ;  see  p.  63 :  suki-zuki^ 

BOtsQgyd,  graduation:  sotsUgyo 

various  tastes. 

surUy  to  graduate. 

gnkkari,  quite,  completely ;  (with 

SOttO,  gently ;  also  used  for  ckot- 

a  negative)  not  at  all; 

to,  a  little. 

Stikobara,  very. 

SOzei,  taxes,  imposts. 

siikoshi^  a  little. 

sQzd,    a   fancy:    sozo-tet^gaku. 

Siikn,  to  be  empty. 

metaphysics. 

BdZ6shii,  noisy. 

268,  N.  B. 

SU,  vinegar. 

SUmai,  a  residence* 

su 


[  5«>] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


TA 


SUXnaUy  to  reside. 
Siunasn,  to  conclude  (trans.). 
snmi^cbarcoal,  Indian  ink. 
sumi-Jlmen,  an  open  space. 
Slimd,  wrestling :  sumd  wo  taru, 

to  wrestle. 
gninpQ^  dimensions. 
SOmU,  to  dwell. 
snmn,  to  finish.    The  negative 

suman  sometimes  means  to  be 

improper. 
SUmu,  to  be  clear. 
gtOl,  an  inch. 
Silna,  sand. 

sanawachiy  namely,  forthwith. 
snnde-no-koto  ni,  already. 
Btmen  or  gaxien,  tnany  years. 

sappa-nuki  sura,    (irreg.)  to 

draw  one's  sword  at  random  (as 
a  swashbuckler  does). 

sappai,  sour. 

sura,  even,  if  only. 

surarito,       |  smoothly,  with- 

snra-SUra  to, )  out  more  ado. 

saribi,  ^  match  (for  striking). 

sura,  (irrcg.)  to  do,  to  make ;  see 
especially  pp.  155  and  218 ;  also 
pp.  89,  129, 147,  190,  X93,  206, 
207,  245:  shi-kakerUf  to  leave 
half  done:  sum  to,  at  the  begin- 
ning of  a  sentence,  see  p.  362, 
note  10;  shite  miru  to,  see  pp.  362 
— 3,  note  15  :^  ^0  sureba,  see  p. 
424,  note  22. 

sum,  to  rub.  Used  aliso  incor- 
rectly for  soruy  to  shave,  as  hige 
wo  soru  or  sttru,  to  shave. 


SOrodoi,  sharp. 

susagi-sentaku,  the  washing 

of  clothes. 
saSDga,  to  rinse,  to  cleanse. 
BOSiiki,  the  eulalia  grass. 
BUBUniera,  (2)  to  urge,  to  offer, 

to  recommend. 
SUSUmU,  to  advance,  to  progress 

(intrans.). 
Biiteru,  to  throw  away. 
BUU,  to  suck. 
sawani;     to    squat    (Japanese 

fashion). 
Stum,  tin. 

BUZIime,  A  sparrow. 
suzari-bako,  an  ink-box, 
suzuBhii,  cool. 

T. 

ta,  a  suffix  denoting  past  time; 

see  p.  Z46,  '162. 
ta,  other :  sono  ta,  besides  that. 
ta,  a  rice-field. 
tabako,     tobacco     (from     the 

European   word) :  tabako-ire,  a 

tobacco-pouch ;  tabako  wo  nomu, 

to  smoke. 
tabera,  (2)  to  eat :  conf.  pp.  152, 

245. 

tabemono,  food. 

tabi,  a  time  (une  fois) :  tabi-tabi, 
often:  iku  tabi?  how  many 
times  ?  ikiitabi  mo,  any  number, 
of  times,  however  often. 

tabi,  A  journey ;  tabi  ye  deru^  to 
go  on  a  journey. 


TA 


t5«] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


TA 


tabi-bitO,  a  traveller. 

taishiy  a  crown-prince. 

tabun,  a  good  deal,  most ;  hence 

probably. 

taishO,  a  general  or  admiral  of 

tachi,  a  ploralising  suffix ;  see  p. 

the  first  rank. 

28. 

taiso,  greatly,  much,  very. 

tachi-banashi,  a  conversation 

tassfaira,  (3)  ^  reach* 

in  the  street. 

taisnra,  (irreg.)  to  be  opposite  to : 

tada,  only,  simply. 

ni  taishite,  vis-a-vis,  to. 

tadaimai  immediately.    . 

taitei,  for  the  most  part,  gene- 

taeru, (2)  to  endure. 

rally,  average. 

tagai    (ni),  mutually:    0    tagai 

taiy5,  the  sun. 

{soma)  nif  see  p.  417,  foot-note 

taka,  a  quantity^ 

3- 

takai,  high,  hence  dear  (in  price). 

tBig/MUj   a  verbal  suffix;  see  p. 

takara,  a  treasure. 

130. 

takam,  to  collect  (intrans.). — as 

tai,    termination   of  desiderative 

flies  or  maggots. 

adjectives ;  see  pp.  130,  161,  178. 

take,  a  bamboo. 

taibokU,  a  large  tree. 

take,  a  mountain  peak. 

taigai,   for  the  most  part,   pro- 

taki, a  waterfall. 

bably. 

tako,  a  kite  (toy). 

taihen,  lit.  a  great  change,  hence 

taku,  a  house,  hence  a  humble 

very,  awfully,  see  p.  143. 

term  for  husband  (see  p.  250) : 

taih&,  a  cannon. 

0  taku  dct  at  home. 

taika,  a  famous  man. 

taka,  to  light  (the  fire),  to  cook 

taikd,  a  title  of  honour, — ^rarely 

(rice). 

applied  to  any   but  the  TaikO 

taktisan^  much,  many,  plenty: 

Hideyoshi,  the  military  ruler  of 

mo  taknsan,  that  is  plenty,    I 

Japan  at  the  end  of  the  sixteenth 

don't   want    any    more:    conf. 

century. 

p.  63. 

tama,  a  ball,  a  bead,  a  jewel. 

taikntsu,  tedium,  ennui:  taikutsu 

tamago,  an  ^gg. 

suru,  to  feel  bored. 

tamam,  (intrans.)  to  collect  (as 

taimatsu>  a  torch. 

water  in  a  puddle). 

taira  (na),  flat. 

tamam,     (trans.),    to    endure: 

taisa,  a  colonel,  a  post- captain. 

tamaranai  sometimes  means  too. 

taisetsUy    importance :    taisetsu 

conf.  p.  305,  No.  95. 

na,  important. 

tamashii^  the  soul. 

TA 


Ism] 
japanese — english  vocabulary. 


TA 


tamaU,  to  deign ;  conf.  p.  247. 

tame,  sake :  no  tame  ni,  for 
the  sake  of,  because  of,  in 
order  to:  tame  ni  naru^  to  be 
profitable. 

tamochirkata,  the  degree  of 
wear  or  lasting  power  in  an 
article. 

tamotsu,  to  keep  (trans.). 

tan,  saliva,  phlegm  :  tan  wo  hahu, 
to  spit. 

tana,  a  shelf.    . 

tane,  a  seed,  something  where- 
with to  do  something  else,  the 
wherewithal. 

tani,  a  valley. 

tanin,  another  person,  a  stranger. 

tanjun  (na),  simple. 

tanomu,  to  rely  on,  to  apply  to, 
to  ask,  hence  sometimes  to  hire, 
to  engage.  See  also  p.  243  :  0 
tanomi  mOshimasUt  see  p.  319, 
No  14. 

tfiUttOshimi,  joy,  pleasure. 

tansu,  a  cabinet,  a  chest  of 
drawers. 

taorera,  (2)  to  fail  over. 

tara,  a  cod-fish. 

tara(ba),  termination  of  the  con- 
ditional past,  see  pp.  162,  179. 

taredo(nio),  termination  of  the 
concessive  past,  see  p.  162. 

tari,  termination  of  the  frequen- 
tative fortn,  see  pp.  162, 183. 

tarira,  (3)  to  suffice,    to    be 

enough,  conf.  p.  160 -....ni  taran^ 
is  not  worth. 


tard,  termination  of  the  probable 
past,  see  p.  162. 

Tard,  a  man^s  name,  see  p.  34. 

tara,  a  cask. 

taru,  a  Classical  particle,  con- 
tracted from  to  arM,=  is  (that), 
as :  bushi  taru  monot  one  who 
is  a  warrior. 

tashd,  more  or  less,  hence 
amount,  degree. 

tasshi,  a  notification. 

tasshiru,  (3)*  to  attain  to,  to 
reach. 

tasiikara,  to  be  saved  ;  but  conf. 
p.  199. 

tas&kera,  (2)  to  save,  to  help. 

tatakn,  to  knock :  tataki-tsUkerUy 
to  knock  on  (to). 

tatami,  a  mat. 

tatamu,  to  pile  up. 

tate-itlda,  a  notice-board. 

tateru,  (2)  to  set  up,  to  build. 

tatera,  (2)  to  be  able  to  stand 
(intrans.). 

tatoe,  a  comparison,  a  metaphor. 

tatoeba,  for  instance. 

tatoeru,  (2)  to  compare. 

tatSU,  a  dragon. 

tatsU,  to  stand  up,  to  rise,  to«it 
up  (of  a  dog),  to  depart :  tacki- 
kaerUf  to  go  back;  tachikaeru^ 
to  begin  to  start ;  tachi-yoru,  to 
look  in  at. 

tatta,  vulg.  and  emphatic  for 
tada, 

tattobu,  to  honour,  to  venerate. 

tattoii  venerable,  worshipful. 


TA 


JAPANESE—ENGLISH  VOCABULARY. 


TE 


tattosa,  venerableness. 

tema,  trouble :  tema  ga  toreru,  to 

tayori,   something   to  rely  on: 

take  time  and  trouble  (intra n«.). 

iayori  ni  sum,  to  rely  on. 

temae,  front ;  hence  you,  also  I, 

tazona^.a  bridle. 

conf.  p.  45. 

tazunera,  (2)  to  ask,  to  enquire, 

temmongaka^  astronomy. 

to  visit. 

tempen,  a  sign  in  the  heavens. 

te,  the  termination  of  the  gerund, 

Texnp5,     a    nengo    or     •*  year- 

see  p.  161 :  te  mo,  see  p.  182. 

name,"  which  lasted  from  A.  D. 

te,    the   hand,    the    arm,    hence 

1830   to   1844;  hence   an  oval 

handwriting.        Sometimes     in 

copper  coin  with  a  hole  in  the 

compounds  it  means  person,  as 

middle,  struck  during  that  period. 

in  noriUy  lit.   riders,   i.e.,   the 

ten,  the  sky,  heaven. 

passengers     in     an     omnibus. 

ten,  a  point. 

railway  carriage,  etc;  see  also  p. 

ten-chi,  heaven  and  earth. 

350,  foot-note. 

Tenjiku,  India. 

tebQkuro,  a  glove. 

tenjd,  a  ceiling. 

techO;  a  note-book. 

tenka,  the  world,  the  empire  (of 

teflldai  a  visiting  card. 

Japan). 

teflira,  a  table  (from  the  Dutch 

tenki,  the  weather:  0  tenki,  d**. 

^    tafel). 

also  specifically    fine  weather ; 

tegami,  a  letter. 

tenki-tsugo,     the  state   of    the 

tegaroi,  easy,  slight,  not  trouble- 

weather. 

some. 

tenkokU,  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

tei,  a  state  (of  things). 

tennenso,  smallpox. 

teikokU,  an  empire,  specifically 

tenno,  the  mikado. 

Japan. 

tenshi,  mikado  ;  see  p.  252. 

teinei  (na),  polite. 

Tenshd,  see  p.  381,  foot-note. 

tsishi,  incorrect  for  teishu. 

Tenshu,  God  (of  Roman  Catbo- 

teiahu,  the  master  of  a  house,  a 

licsf):    Tenshudo,      a     Catholic 

husband ;  conf.  p.  229. 

church ;      TenshukyD,      Roman 

teki,  an  enemy  (public). 

Catholicism;    Tenshu-kyoski,    a 

teki,  a  drop. 

Catholic  missionary  or  priest. 

teki  sum,  (irreg.)  to   be  appro- 

tensui-Oke, a  rain  tub. 

priate. 

tentaku,  changing  houses :  ten- 

tekishu-seizon,  the  survival  of 

taku  suruy  to  change  houses. 

the  fittest. 

tentd,  (0  tentO  satna)t  the  sun 

teki,  of;  see  p.  78. 

(vulg.). 

TE 


[524] 

JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


TO 


tenngui,  a  towel. 

teppd,  a  gun :  ieppo  wo  utsu^  to 
fire  a  gun;  teppo'tnizu^  soda- 
water  (vulg.). 

tera,  a  Buddhist  temple. 

terUj  to  shine. 

tera,  contraction  of  termin.  te  iru. 

tesuki,  leisure,  nothing  to  do. 

tete^  the  handa(in  baby  language). 

tetsU,  iron:  tetsubin,  a  kettle; 
tetsudo,  a  railroad;  tetsudo- 
bashot  a  street- car,  a  tram. 

tetsugaka,  philosophy;  teisu- 
gakUsha,  a  philosopher. 

tezema,  the  state  of  being 
crowded. 

tezuma,  jugglery:  tezuma-tsukaif 
conjurer. 

to,  a  door. 

to,  ten  (in  compounds). 

to,  a  postposition :  see  p.  79 :  to 
iUf  see  pp.  55,  67,  80 ;  to  iu  mono 
wa,  see  p.  56 ;  to  ka,  see  p.  67 ; 
to  mOt  see  pp.  82,  182 ;  to  itte^  see 
p.  80 ;  to  itte  mOt  see  p.  182;  to  mo 
kaku  mot  see  p.  308  ;  to  suru^  see 
pp.  221,  439  (note  9);  to  wa  iedo, 
see  p.  182. 

to,  a  pagoda, 

t6,  ten. 

t6,  that,  the ;  see  p.  52,  IT  78. 

td,  an  auxiliary  numeral  for  ani- 
mals ;  see  p.  107. 

td,  etcetera. 

tobu,  to  jump,  to  fly:  tobi-agaru^ 
to  fly  up  :  tobi-komut  to  jump  or 
fly  in ;  tobi-kosu^  to  jump  across. 


t6butsu-ya,  a  general  shop  for 
foreign  goods. 

tOchaka,  arrival:  tochaku  suru, 
to  arrive. 

tochi,  a  locality,  a  place,  soil. 

tocbd,  on  the  road,  by  the  way. 

t6daij  a  lamp-stand,  a  candle- 
stick. 

todana,  a  cupboard. 

todoke,  a  report. 

todokera^  (2)  to  send  to  destina- 
tion, to  give  notice,  to  report. 

todoku,  to  reach  (intrans.). 

todomara,  to   stop,   to   stay 

(intrans.). 

todoxne,  a  stop,  ^  pause,  the 
coup  de  gr&ce :  todome  wo  sasu, 
to  give  the  coup  de  gr^ce. 

todoxneru,  (2)  to  stop  (trans.). 

tdfti,  bean-curd :  tdfu-ya,  a  shop 
for,  or  seller  of,  bean-curd. 

toga,  fault,  blame. 

togame,  blame. 

togameru,  (2)  to  blame. 

tdgarashi,  cayenne  pepper. 

tdge,  a  mountain  pass. 

togetsu,  this  month. 

togire,  temporary  cessation. 

tobomonai,  outrageous,  ex- 
tortionate. 

t6i,  far,  distant. 

toji,  the  binding  of  a  book. 

toji,  the  present  time. 

tojira,  (3)  to  close  (trans.). 

tojira,  (3)  to  bind  (a  book). 

t5ka,  ten  days,  the  tenth  day  of 
the  month. 


TO 


[525I 
JAPANESE — ENGUSH  VOCABULARY. 


TO 


tokSlkQ,  see  tamokakumo. 

tokei;  SL  clock,  a  watch. 

tokera,  (2)  tomelt(intrans.). 

toki,  time,  hence  when  (conjunc- 
tion), see  pp.  39,  179,  268 :  toki- 
dokif  often ;  toki  ni^  see  p.  40 ; 
toki  to  shite,  sometimes. 

tdki,  porcelain. 

to(k)kari,  a  bottle. 

toko,  an  abbreviation  of  tokoro, 
place. 

tokonoma,  an  alcove. 

tokoro,  a  place,  but  see  pp.  40, 
175  ;  for  tokoro  no  used  as  a  kind 
of  relative  pronoun,  see  p.  59:  to- 
koro de,  see  p.  41 ;  tokoro  ga,  to- 
koro ye,  see  p.  40 ;  tokoro-dokoro, 
here  and  there,  in  many  places. 

tokoro-gaki,  an  address  (writ- 
ten). 

toka,  to  loosen,  to  unfasten,  to 
explain  :  toki-akasu,  to  explain. 

toka,  profit,  advantage,  efficacy. 

toku,  to  melt  (trans.). 

tokaiku,  moral  culture. 

tokuhon,  a  reading  book. 

toxnai,  the  auxiliary  numeral  for 
godowns,  see  p.  zzo. 

tomaru,  to  stop,  to  stay  (intrans.). 

tomfai,  a  kite  (bird). 

toinbo,  a  dragon-fly. 

tome-bari,  a  pin. 

td-megane,  a  telescope. 
tomero,   (2),   to  stop,  to  stay 

(trans.). 
tomo,  a  companion,  a  follower  : 

0  tomo  suru,  to  accompany. 


tomodachi,  a  companion,  a 
friend. 

tomokaka(ino),  in  any  case,  be 
that  as  it  may,  somehow  or  other. 

tOmorokoshi,  Indian  corn. 

tomnrai,  a  funeral. 

tonaera,  (2),  to  recite,  to  pro- 
claim (e.g.  opinions). 

tonari,  next  door. 

tonda,  I  absurd,     awful, 

tondemonai)  ^  excessive. 

tOnen,  this  year. 

tdnill,  the  person  in  question. 

tonogO,  a  man,  &  gentleman,  a 

husband. 
tonto  (mo),  altogether ;  (with  a 

negative)  not  at  all.      Ton  to 

sometimes  means  thud. 
tora,  a  tiger. 

toraera,  (2)  to  seize,  to  arrest. 
toreru,  (2)  to  take  (intrans.),  to 

be  able  to  take, 
tori,  a  bird,  especially  the  barn- 
door fowl, 
tdri,  a  thoroughfare,  a  street,  a 

way,  as ;  see  p.  237. 
tori-atsiikai,         management, 

treatment. 
tori-aezu,  forthwith. 
tori'ire,  ingathering,  harvest. 
tori  mo  naosaza,  neither  more 

nor  less  than,  just,  exactly. 

tori-maki  wo  suru,  to  keep 

the  ball  of  conversation  rolling, 
to  entertain  skilfully. 
t5r5,  a  stationary  (e.g.  a  stone) 
lantern. 


TO 


JAPANESE — ENGLISH  VOCABULARY. 


TSU 


tora,  to  take,  but  sometimes 
merely  expletive  in  compounds  : 
tori  ni  iku,  to  go  for  ;  tori  ni 
kurut  to  come  for ;  tori  ni  yarUy 
to  send  for  ;  tori-ats&kau,  to  un. 
dertake,  to  manage;  tori-chigae- 
ru,  to  confuse;  tori-ireru,  to 
gather  in ;  tori-isogUt  to  be  in  a 
hurry  ;  tori-kasry,  to  exchange ; 
tori-kakomu^  to  surround,  to  be- 
siege ;  tori-motsuy  to  arrange  ;... 
ni  tottej  with  regard  to. 

tdru,  to  pass  through,  to  pass  by : 
tiTri-kakarUt  to  happen  to  pass 
by. 

tosan,  the  ascent  of  a  mountain : 
tosan  surUy  to  ascend  a  moun- 
tain. 

tOBhi,  a  year,  hence  age:  toshi 
wo  tori*y  to  grow  old ;  toshi  no 
yotta^  elderly,  aged. 

tdshi)  the  act  of  doing  something 
right  through. 

toshiyori  (no),  old  (said  only  of 
people). 

tdsu,  to  put  or  let  through,  to 
admit  (e.  g.  a  guest):  o  toshi 
mose,  see  bottom  of  p.  281 » 

totan,  zinc. 

tote,  a  postposition ;  see  p.  80. 

totemo,  anyhow,  at  any  price 
(metaph.) ;  (with  a  neg.)  not  at 
all,  by  no  means. 

t5td,  at  last. 

tdzen,  right,  proper. 

tsuba,  the  guard  of  a  sword. 

tsubaki,  a  camellia-tree. 


tsubu,  a  grain,— e.g.  of  rice  ;  a 
seed. 

tsiichi,  earth :  tsfUhi-yaki,  ear- 
thenware. 

tsue,  a  stick,  a  staff:  tsue  wo 
tsuku^  to  lean  on  a  staff. 

tsugi  (no),  the  next :  sono  tsugi 
niy  next  (adverb). 

tsugo,  the  sum  total,  altogether  ; 
also  convenience,  certain  rea- 
sons :  tsugo  no  yoi^  convenient ; 
tsugo  no  waruiy  inconvenient ; 
go  tsugo  shidai^  according  to 
your  convenience ;  tsugS  ga  de- 
kimasuy  see  p.  311,  No  7. 

tstlga,  to  join  (trans.),  to  folk>w, 
to  succeed  to  (a  patrimony);  also 
to  pour  into :  tsugi-dasUf  to  pour 
out. 

tsui  (ni),  at  last. 

tsuidej  occasion,  apropos:  no 
tsuide  nij  apropos  of. 

tsuitachi,  the  first  day  of  the 
month. 

tsuite,  (preceded  by  ni)  accord- 
ing to,  owing  to,  about :  tsuite 
ikut  to  follow. 

tsuiyasu,  to  spend,  to  squander. 

tsc^i,  a  cross-road. 

tsQJi,  an  interpreter,  interpreting. 

tsiika,  a  hilt. 

tsiikaeru,  (2)  to  serve. 

tsiikai,  a  message,  a  messenger  : 
tsukai  no  mono^  a  messenger. 

tsukai-xnichi,  a  means  of  em- 
ploying. 

tsilkamaera,  (2)  to  caioh. 


TSU 


[527] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


TSU 


tSfikamatSUrU,  to  do  (a  self- 
depreciatory  word) ;  conf.  p. 
295,  foot-note  3. 

tsilkasadoniy    to   control,   to 

direct. 
tstlkatl,  to  use,  to  employ. 
tstikawasu,  to  give,  to  send. 
tsiikegi,  a  lucifer  match. 
tsukem,  (2)  to  fix,  to  affix,  (hence) 

to  set  down  in  writing,  to  add : 

isvke-agaru,   to    be    puffed    up 

with  pride. 
tsiiki,  the  moon,  a  month:  tsfl- 

ki-zuey  the  end  of  the  month. 

tsUki  ga  agaru,  the  moon  rises. 
tsiiki*al,  intercourse. 
tBiiki-atari,  the  end  of  a  road 

where  one  must  turn  either  to 

the  right  or  to  the  left. 

tsiiki-atara,  see  tsiika. 

ts^iraj  (3)  to  come  to  an  end, 

to  be  exhausted. 
tsukO,     passing      through,      a 

thoroughfare :  tsUko  suru,  to  pass 

through  or  along. 
tsuku^  to  push,  to  shove :  tsiki- 

ataruy  to  collide,  to  come  to  the 

end  (of  a  street). 
tsiikti,  to  stick  (intrans.),  some- 
times to    result:    tsuki-sou,    to 

accompany. 
tsukae^  a  table,   specifically    a 

very  low  Japanese  writing-table. 
tsiikanen,  Hstlessness,  gaping. 
tsiiknra,  to  make,  to  compose; 

to  grow  (trans.):   tsukuri-dasu^ 

to  produce. 


tstlkasn,  to  exhaust,  to  do  to  the 

utmost* 
tsiiku-tsiika,  attentively. 
tsama,  a  wife  ;  but  see  p.  250. 

tEnimaran(ai),    worthless,    tri' 

fling. 
tsamari)  at  last,  in  the  long  run. 
tsum  azuku,  to  stumble. 
tsame,  a  finger  or  toe  nail,  a 

claw. 
tsUXnem,  (2)  to  stuff,    pack,  or 

squeeze    into :    tsume-yoru^     to 

draw  near. 
tsumetai,  cold  (to  the  touch). 
tsumij  a  sin,  a  crime ;  tsumi  no 

naif   innocent;   tsumi  surttf    to 

punish. 

tsuxni-ni,  cargo. 

tsumori)  an  intention :  tsumori- 
gakif  a  written  estimate. 

tsumora,  to  be  heaped  up. 

tsomil,  to  pick. 

tsumuri,  (preceded  by  o),  the 
head  (honorific). 

tsonaga,  to  fasten,  to  tie  up. 

tsune  (ni),  generally. 

tsano,  a  horn. 

tsunorU)  to  collect  (trans.),  to 
levy,  to  increase  or  grow  violent. 

tsurai,  disagreeable,  unsym- 
pathetic. 

tsure,  a  companion.  NigorVcd 
and  used  as  a  suffix,  it  means 
together,  as  fnfu-zure^  a  hus- 
band and  wife  together. 

tsureru,  (2)  to  take  with  one: 
tsurete  kutUf  to  bring  (a  person). 


TSU 


JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


UM 


tsure-datSU,  to  go  together. 
tsurei,  the  general  precedent,  the 

usual  plan, 
tsuru,  a  stork. 
tSUrU)  to  hang  (e.g.  a  mosquito* 

net) ;  Uuri-ageru,  to  hang  up. 
tsurUy  to  angle,  to  catch  fish  with 

a  line  and  book, 
tsorabe,  a  well -bucket. 
tsutsuji,  an  azalea. 
tsutsumi(-mono),  a  parcel. 
tsutsumu,  to  wrap  up. 
tsuyO,  circulation :  tsuyo  suru^  to 

circulate  (as  money). 
tsuyoi,  strong, 
tsuyu,  dew :  0  tsuyu^  soup. 
tsuzoku,  colloquial,  common. 
tte,  see  p.  8i. 

u. 

uba,  a  wet-nurse. 

nbau,  to  steal. 

UChi,  the  inside,  hence  a  house, 
hencd  a  humble  term  for  hus- 
band (see  p.  250),  taken  from,  an 
extract :  no  uchi  ni,  inside,  in  ; 
sono  uchi,  meanwhile,  soon;  0 
uchi  de,  at  home.  Uchi  ni, 
sometimes  means  while.  For 
uchi  helping  to  form  superla- 
tives, see  p.  142. 

nchiki,  retiring,  bashful. 

UChiwa,  a  fan  of  the  kind  that 
does  not  open  and  shut. 

ude,  the  arm. 

Udero,  (2)  to  boil,— e.g.  an  egg. 


Udonko,  flour,  meaL 

ue,  the  top  of  anything ;  conf.  p. 
254 :  no  ue  ni,  above,  on,  after. 
Sometimes  ue  means  circum- 
stances or  nature,  as  kami  no  mi 
ue,  the  nature  of  the  gods.  Also 
a  point  of  view,  with  regard  to. 

ue-bdsd,  vaccination. 

Uekij  a  garden  plant :  uekiya,  a 
gardener. 

aeru,  (2)  to  plant. 

UgOkasU,  to  move  (trans.). 

UgOkn,  to  move  (intrans.). 

ngoisa,  a  nightingale. 

Uji,  a  surname,  hence  Mr. 

Ukagau,  to  enquire,  to  ask,  to 
listen  to,  to  visit. 

Uke-Oi-nin,  an  underwriter. 

UkerU,  (2)  to  receive:  conf.  p. 
245  :  uke-aUf  to  guarantee;  uke- 
toru,  to  take  delivery,  to  receive. 

uketamawara,  a  humble  word 

for  to  hear  ;  conf.  p.  245. 

Uketori,  a  receipt. 

Uke-tsuke,  a  sort  of  enquiry 
office,  superior  in  dignity  to  a 
mere  porter's  lodge^. where  cards 
are  received,  iniosci^ation  given, 
etc.  There  is  one  at  the  en- 
trance to  every  public  depart- 
ment and  other  large  establish- 
ments in  Japan. 

UmBk,  a  horse. 

iimai,  nice  to  eat,  tasty. 

tixnamma,  food  (in  baby  lan- 
guage) ;  conf.  p.  234,  footnote. 

ilmarera,  (2)  to  be.  born. 


UM 


[529] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


DW 


iimeure-tsilki,  by  birth;  hence 
the  character  or  disposition. 

ilme,  a  plum-tree :  Umemi,  going 
to  see  the  plum-blossoms. 

iixneni,  to  fill  up  with  earth,  to 
bury :  ^me-awaserut  to  make  up 
(metaph.),  see  p.  353. 

nmi,  the  sea :  umi-be,  the  sea- 
shore. 

Umu,  to  give  birth  to,  to  bear : 
umi-dasut  d^ 

Un,  luck :  un  no  yoiy  lucky ;  un  no 
waruif  unlucky. 

unazuku,  to  nod. 

Unchin,  freight(-money). 
Unddy    bodily    exercise:,  undd- 

dama^  cup-and-ball :  undo  suru, 

to  take  exercise. 
ODJO,  a  tax,  a  tariff. 
UXBi  the  back  or  reverse  side  of 

anything. 

nrayamQ;  |  to  envy  (not 

urayamashigara, )  in    a   bad 

sense);  also  to  wish  to  be  like. 
urayamashii,  enviable. 

urem,  (2)  to  sell  (intrans.),  to  be 
able  to  sell ;  conf.  p.  201. 

ureshii,  joyful. 
ureshigara,  to  feel  joyful. 

Uri,  a  melon. 

nra,  to  sell  (trans.) :  ari-sabakUi 

to  sell  off. 
Urusai;  troublesome,  a  bother, 
arasctgaru,  to  find  troublesome. 
Urushi,  lacquer. 
Uruwashii,  beautiful,  lovely. 
Osagi,  a  hare. 


UShi,  a  cow,  a  bull,  an  ox,  beef. 

ushinan,  to  lose. 

Uflhiro,  the  back  or  hinder  part  of 
anything:  no  ushiro  ni,  at  the 
back  of,  behind. 

QSO,  a  lie,  a  falsehood  :  uso  wo  iu^ 
to  lie  ;  uso'tsuki,  a  liar. 

nsaberii  rush  matting  bound 
with  a  hemp  edging. 

USni,  light,  thin  (in  colour  or  con- 
sistence), insufficient :  asu-tikaif 
pink ;  usu-guraij  dusk. 

Uta^  a  Japanese  (as  opposed  to  a 
Chinese)  poem,  a  song. 

Utagai^  a  doubt:  utagai  wo 
okosuj  to  raise  a  question. 

atan,  to  sing. 

Utcharu,  to  throw  away,  to  dis- 
regard :  utchatte  oku^  d^ 

Uteni,  to  strike,  to  hit :  teppo  wo 
utsuj  to  fire  a  gun.  It  is  some- 
times used  as  a  meaningless  and 
omittable  prefix  in  compound 
verbs,  Sis{uchi-)tsure-dat5Ut  to  go 
along  together. 

Utsnsn^  to  remove  (trans.),  to 
copy. 

UttaerOi  (2)  to  go  to  law  about, 
to  appeal. 

UWa-gaki^  an  address  (on  an  en- 
velope, etc.). 

UWagi^  an  overcoat,  a  coat. 

nwagatsn,  a  slipper. 

UWasa,  talk  about  a  person, 
gossip,  rumour :  uwasa  wo  surUt 
to  talk  about. 

UWO,  a  fish. 


UY 


[530] 

JAPANESE — ENGUSH   VOCABULARY. 


WA 


U3fainaU^  to  reverence. 
Uya-Uyadahii,  awe-inspiring. 
tUSOia,  a  quail. 

w. 

Wa,  a  separative  particle ;  see  p. 
83  ;  also  pp.  44,  62,  177,  igo, 
*55«  267,  For  its  use  as  an  in- 
terjection, see  p.  84. 

Wa,  an  irregular  auxiliary  nume- 
ral, see  p.  107. 

Wa,  a  wheel. 

Wabi,  an  apology. 

Wabira,  (3)  to  lament,  to  apolo- 
gise. 

waboka,  peace. 

Waga^  my  own,  one's  own,  see  p. 
49 :  waga  mi,  myself. 

waka-danna^  the  son  of  the 

master  of  the  house. 

waksA,  young. 

Wakari,  understanding :  o  wakari 
ni  narut  to  understand  (honor- 
ific); wakari  no  hayai^  quick- 
witted, sharp. 

wakari-nikoi,  hard  to  under- 
stand. 

wakari-yasai,  easy  to  under- 
stand. 

Wakani,  to  understand:  zvai^ori- 
kitte  irUf  to  come  to  a  clear  un- 
derstanding. 

Wakasu,  to  boil  (trans.) ;  said  of 
water. 

WakatsU,  to  discern. 

wake,  a  reason,  a  cause :  do  iu 
wake  de  ?  why  ? 


Wakera,  (2)  to  divide :  wake-ata- 
eru,  to  distribute  in  appropriate 
shares. 

wakete,  specially. 

Wakiy  the  side  of  anything, 
sometimes  elsewhere:  no  waki 
ni,  at  the  side  of,  beside  ;  waki 
ye,  elsewhere. 

Wakimaera,  (2)  to  discriminate, 
to  comprehend. 

Waki-mum,  ^  spring  of  water. 

Waku,   to  boil  (intrans.). 

wakiiseiy  a  planet. 

wampaka  (na),  naughty. 

wan,  a  bowl. 

Wan-Wani  bow-wow.  children 
call  dogs  so. 

wara,  straw.  . 

Warai,  laughter. 
Waraji,  a  kind  of  straw  sandals 
used  only  out-ofdoors. 

wazan,  to  laugh. 

ware,  I  (in  Book  Language): 
ware-ware,  people  like  me,  we. 

Wari-aiy  proportion. 

Warui,  bad,  (hence  sometimes) 
ugly*  see  also  pp.  125,  136: 
waruku  iu,  to  blame. 

Wara-kdchi,  bad  language. 

WarU-monO,  a  worthless  fellow, 
a  ruffian. 

Wasei,  made  in  Japgn. 

Waahi,  a  vulgar  contraction  of 
watakUshi,  I. 

Wasare-monO,  something  for- 
gotten. 

wasureru,  (2)  to  forget. 


WA 


t53i] 

JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


YA 


Watakiishi,  selfishness,  (hence) 

yakamashii,    noisy,     (hence) 

I :  watakushi-domOy  we,  people 

given  to  fault-finding. 

like  me,  I ;  conf.  p.  46. 

yakedo,  a  burn. 

WatarU,  to  cross  (a  river). 

yakera,  (2)  to  bum  (intrans.). 

watashi,     ^   somewhat   vulgar 

yaki,  burning,   roasting,  anneal- 

contraction of  watakUshi,  L 

ing. 

WatasU,  to  hand  over. 

yakimochl,  jealousy. 

Waza  to,  on  purpose. 

yakkai,  assistance;  see  also  p. 

Wazawai,  a  calamity. 

300,  No.  54. 

Waza-WElza,  on  purpose. 

yaka,  to  burn,  (trans.)  to  roast, 

Wazuka,    a    trifle:    wazuka  niy 

to  toast,  to  bake. 

only,  nothing  but. 

yaka,  usefulness,    service:  yaku 

WO,    a  postposition;   see  p.  88; 

ni  tatsut  to  be  of  use. 

also  pp.  195,  197,  221,  255. 

yakonin,  an  official. 

WOba,  see  p.  94. 

yakfisha,  an  actor. 

yaktisho,  a  public  office. 

yakiiSOku,  an  agreement,  a  pro- 

Y. 

mise,  an  engagement. 

ya,  a  termination  signifying  house, 

yazna,  a  mountain,  a  hill,  some- 

see p.  38. 

times    dishonest     speculation : 

ya,  a  postposition  ;  see  pp.  90,  86 

yama-michit  a  mountain  path. 

(N.B.),  190:  ya  nani  ka,  see  p.  53. 

yamame,  a  kind  of  trout. 

ya,  eight  (in  enumeration). 

yamashi,  a  dishonest  speculator, 

yaban,  a  barbarian  :  yaban  no  of 

a  charlatan. 

«a,  barbarous. 

YamatO,  the  name  of  one  of  the 

yabO,  a  clown,  a  dolt. 

central     provinces    of    Japan ; 

yabukll,  to  tear  (trans.). 

hence  by  extension  Japan  itself. 

yachin,  house-rent. 

yaTYieru,  (2)  to  put  a  stop  to. 

yadO,  a  dwelling-place,  a  hotel; 

yami,  total  darkness. 

hence  a  humble  word  for  hus- 

yamome, a  widow. 

band   (see   p.   250):  yadoya^   a 

yamU  wo  ezu,  unavoidably. 

hotel. 

yanagi,  a  willow-tree. 

yagate,  forthwith,  by  and  bye. 

yano,  a  rooi'.yane-huney  a  house- 

yagU, bed-clothes. 

boat. 

yahari,  also. 

yappari,  emphatic  for  yahari. 

yai!  halloa  1 

yara,  see  p.  456,  foot-note  8. 

YA 


[5321 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


YO 


yarakasu,  (vulg.)  to  do,  to  drink. 

yam,  to  send,  to  give,  conf.  pp. 
191,  245 :  yatte  miru^  to  try 
(one's  hand  at).  Yaru  is  some- 
times used  instead  of  suru^  to 
do. 

yasaK-mono),  vegetables. 

yasashii,  easy,  gentle. 

yaseru,  (2)  to  grow  thin ;  yasete 
iru,  to  be  thin ;  yaseta^  thin. 

yashiki,  a  nobleman's  mansion, 
also  a  <*  compound." 

yashiro,  a  Shinto  temple. 

yashokU,  supper,  (late)  dinner. 

YasO,  Jesus :  Yasokyo  or  Yasoshu, 
(Protestant)  Christianity ;  Yaso- 
hydshiy  a  (Protestant)  mission- 
ary or  clergyman. 

yasui,  cheap,  easy. 

yasozni-bi,  a  holiday. 

yasumu,  to  rest,  to  go  to  bed : 
o  yasutni  nasaiy  goodnight. 

yatOU,  to  hire,  to  engage. 

yatsOy  a  (low)  fellow;  rarely  a 
thing. 

ya(tsu),  eight. 

yatte,  a  meaningless  expletive, 

yattokO-sa,  familiar  for  yoyaku, 

yawarakai  or  yawaraka  na, 

soft. 

yaya  mo  sureba,  apt  to,  liable 

to,  if  one  does  not  take  care. 

ye,  a  postposition ;  see  p.  go. 

yo  !  an  interjection,  see  pp.  233, 
163^ 

yo,  the  night :  yo  ni  iru,  to  be- 
come dark. 


yo,  the  world :  yo  no  naka^  d** :  yo 

wo  okurut  to  spend  one's  life,  to 

make  a  living. 
y6,  four  (in  enumeration). 
y5,  business,  use :  yd  wo  nasu^  to 

be  of  use. 
y5,  appearance,  way,  kind :  yd  ni, 

to,  so  that ;  see  p.  269. 

yo-ake,  dawn. 

yobo,  a  precaution. 

yobu,  to  call :  yobi-dasu^  to  sum- 
mon ;  yobi-kaesut  to  call  back. 

yflfftlm^  European  clothes. 

yohodO,  plenty,  a  lot,  very. 

yoi,  good,  (hence)  handsome  ;  see 
also  p.  136. 

yo-i  (na),  easy. 

yoji,  a  tooth-brush,  less  correctly 
a  tooth-pick  {koyoji) :  yaji-ire,  a 
'  toothpick-holder. 

yO-jd-han,  (a  room)  four  mats 
and  a  half  (in  size). 

ydka,  eight  days,  the  eighth  day 
of  the  month. 

yokan.  a  kind  of  sweetmeat 
made  of  beans  and  sugar. 

yokei,  superfluity ;  (with  a  nega- 
tive) not  very,  not  much ;  see 
p.  144. 

ydki,  the  weather. 

yokka,  four  days,  the  fourth  day 
of  the  month. 

yokO,  cross,  athwart :  yoko-cho^  a 
side  street  (whether  cross  or 
parallel). 

yokogim,  to  cross. 
yokoxne,  a  side  glance. 


YO 


[  533  ] 
JAPANESE — ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


YU 


yokomoji,     European    written 

characters,  Roman  letters. 
yokOSU,  to  send  hither. 
yoku,  well,  (hence)  often. 
yome^  a  bride,  a  daughter-in-law: 

yome  ni  yaru^  to  give  (a  girl)  in 

marriage;  yome  wo   morau,  to 

marry  (a  wife). 
yomera,  (2)  to  read  (intrans.), 

can  read ;  conf.  p.  201. 
yomu,    to    read    (trans.):    uta 

wo    yomut    to   compose    (Jap.) 

poetry. 
ydxnuki,  business,  affairs. 
yondokoronai;  inevitable. 
yone,  hulled  rice. 

yo  (no  naka),  the  world. 

yopparai,  a  drunkard. 

yopparatte  iru,  to  be  intoxi- 
cated. 

yoppodo,  emphatic  for  yohodo. 

yoppite,  all  night  long. 

yori,  a  postposition  ;  see  pp.  91, 
141,  254. 

yoroi,  armour. 

yorokeni,  (2)  to  reel. 

yorokobi,  joy. 

yorokobu,  to  rejoice. 

Yoroppa,  Europe. 

yoroshii,  good,  conf.  pp.  125, 
249:  mo  yoroshii,  all  right,  no 
more  required  \  ..,de  yoroshii, . . . 
will  do  well  enough ;  yoroshtku 
moshimasU,  see  p.  319 ;  yoroshi- 
hu  negaimasu,  see  pp.  334 — 5, 
No.  20. 

yoru,  the  night. 


yora,  to  lean  on,  to  rely,  to 
depend ;  hence  to  look  in  at,  to 
stop  at  for  a  short  time:  ni 
yotte,  owing  to. 

yoru,  to  select :  yori-dasu,  d°. 

yora,  to  assemble. 

yosasO  (na),  having  a  good 
appearance,  conf.  p.  134. 

yosei  SQra,  (Irreg.)  to  foster,  to 
support. 

yoseru,  (2)  to  collect  (trs^ns.). 

yoshi,  good,  all  right;  conf.  p. 
119 :  yoshi-ashi,  see  p.  33. 

yoso,  elsewhere.    . 

yosOOi,  adornment,  fine  array. 

yOSU,  to  leave  off,  to  abstain 
from,  to  put  an  end  to. 

ydSQ,  appearance,  circumstances. 

yo-sugira,  to  be  too  good. 

yo(tsu),  four. 

yottari,  four  persons. 

yotte,  for  that  reason :  ni  yotte, 
owing  to. 

yowai,  weak. 

ydysika, )  barely,    at    last,   with 

y6y6,      )  difficulty. 

yu^  hot  water,  a  hot  bath  :  yu  wo 
sasu,  to  pour  in  hot  water. 

yubi,  a  finger,  a  toe. 

ytibin,  the  post:  yubin-kyoku, 
a  post-office  ;  yubin-zei,  postage. 

yQdachi,  a  (thunder-)  shower. 

ytigata,  twilight,  evening. 

yaind,  gifts  exchanged  on  be- 
trothal. 

ynka,  the  floor. 

yOkata,  seeyugata. 


YU 


JAPANBSE- 


[534] 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


zo 


yQkeiy    the    evening  landscape, 

twilight. 
yukl,  snow. 

yukkuri,  leisurely,  slowly. 
yukyd,  pleasure. 
ytune,  a  dream ;  yume  wo  miru, 

to  dream, 
yOmeahii  supper,  (late)  dinner. 
ytuniy  SI  ^w  (for  shooting)  lyumi- 

ya,  a  bow  and  arrows. 

yurei,  a  ghost. 
yurera,  (2)  to  shake  (intrans.). 
yuri,  a  lily. 
yarui,  loose. 

yururi  (to),  leisurely :  go  yttruri 
to,  see  p.  140. 

yurosa,  to  allow. 

yusan,  a  picnic. 

yOsei,  a  planet. 

yoshi,  a  brave. 

yushpkU,  supper,  (late)  dinner. 

ytohd-reppai,  the  survival  of 
the  fittest  in  the  struggle  for  ex- 
istence. 

yuU;  to  bind  up  or  do  (the  hair). 

yuyu  to,  nonchalantly. 

z. 

za,  a  seat,  in  compounds  some- 
times a  theatre :  sa  ni  tsnku,  to 
take  a  seat ;  za  wo  tatsu,  to  rise 
from  one^s  seat. 

zaisan,  property:  zaisan-kagirU 
bankruptcy. 

zampatsu,  hair-cutting. 

zannen,  regret :  zannen-garu,  to 
regret. 


Zashiki,  a  room. 

zasshi,  a  magazine,  a  review. 

ze,  same  as  zo. 

zehi,    right  I JJI^  wrong ;  (hence) 

positively :  zehi  mo  nai^  nothing 

more  to  be  said,    unavoidable, 

useless. 
zei,  a  tariff,  an  impost. 
Z6ikwan,  a  custom  house. 
zen,   (always  with   honorific  o), 

a  kind  of  tray ;  see  p.  223. 
zen,  before ;  (in  compounds),  as 

shijro-nen-zen,  four  or  five  years  J^ 

ago. 
zen,  virtue. 

zen-aku,  good  jjj'^evil. 

zeni,  coin,  coppers, 
zenxiill,  a  virtuous  person. 

zenryS,  (na),  virtuous,  good. 

zentai,  properly  the  whole  body ; 
more  often  usually,  generally. 

zentOrumezii  a  corruption  of 
the  word  gentlemen. 

zetchd,  the  summit  of  a  moun- 
tain. 

ZO|  an  interjection;  see  pp.  233 
and  53. 

zdhei-kyoka,  a  mint. 

ZOkU,  commonplace*  vulgarity,  a 

brigand,  a  rebel. 
ZOkUgOy  a  colloquial  word,  the 

spoken  dialect. 
ZOmbun,  a  sentiment:  zombun 

ni  suru,  to  do  as  one  likes  (with 

a  thing). 


zo 


JAPANESE- 


C535  1 
-ENGLISH   VOCABULARY. 


ZV 


ZOnji,  knowledge;  used  in  such 
phrases  as  go  Monji  desu  ka  ?  do 
you  know  ?  zonji-nagara,  I  must 
own  that... 

ZOnji-yOri,  an  opinion. 

zonjiru^  (3)  *o  know. 

ZOri,   a    kind  of  straw    sandals 

worn  indoors. 
zOsa,  difficulty:  always  with  a 

negative,  as  z5sa  mo  nai,  there 

is  no  difficulty. 
ZOttO  snru^  to  start  with  surprise; 

also  to  be  natural  or  pleasant. 


ZU,  termination  of  negative  ge- 
rund, see  p.  165. 

ZUboxi;  trowsers. 

ZOibun^  a  good  deal,  pretty 
(adverb),  very. 

ZarO;  see  tsure, 

zatsu,  (one,  etc.)  at  a  time, 
apiece,  each,  as  mitsu-zutsut 
three  at  a  time. 

Zatsfk,  a  headache :  zuHu  ga  suru^ 
to  have  a  headache. 

Zatto,  straight,  quite,  a  great 
deal. 


If  477. 


INDEX 


OF 

SUBJECTS    TREATED. 

(When  several  references  are  given,  the  most  important  reference  is  placed  first. 

Subjects  having  only  Japanese  names,  such  as  the  Kana,  the  Nigori,  and  the 

various  Postpositions,  are  not  inserted  here.    They  must  be  looked 

up  in  the  Japanese-English  Vocabulary,  p.  457  et  seq.) 


Accent,  18. 

Adjectives,   (primary   inflections). 

Accusative,  88,  196. 

117.  123. 

Adjectives,  117,  76. 

(of    probability),    178, 

„         (adverbial    form),    117, 

161. 

rig — 121,  225. 

„          (in  rashii),  130. 

(attributive  form),  ri7. 

„         (reduplicated),  130. 

118,   134,   136,    137, 

„         (secondary  inflections), 

174. 

124. 

„          (comparison  of),  140. 

„          (in  shii)  130. 

„         (compound),  128. 

(stems),  121,  124, 133. 

„          (conclusive  form),  119. 

„         (tense    and   mood   in), 

„         (derivative),  128. 

124,  127. 

„         (desiderative),  178,  x6i. 

„         (verbs    formed    from). 

130. 

130,  220. 

(gerund),  176. 

Adverbial  phrases,  230,    80,  218, 

„          (indefinite    form),    see 

224. 

adverbial  form. 

Adverbs,  225,  50,  73,  96,  117, 120, 

(inflections),  117, 124. 

224. 

„         (negative),     125,     126, 

„      (onomatopoetic),  80. 

136,  147. 

Adversative  particles,  64,  83,  90. 

„         (0  and  a  forms),   121, 

Affirmation,  228,  82. 

216. 

Agglutination,   5,   145,   148,   149, 

(paradigms),  123,   125, 

157,  187. 

126. 

Animals  (how  addressed),  234,  248. 

(predicative),  117,  134, 

Apposition,  75. 

136, 137,  138, 140. 

Attraction,  5, 147. 

538 


INDEX  OF   SUBJECTS. 


Attributive  Phrases,  74,  96. 

Conjunctions,  236;  39,  40, 96,  224. 

Augmentatives,  31,  139. 

Consonants,  16. 

Auxiliary  Numerals,  104, 

(double),  18. 

Auxiliary  Verbs,  184,  310. 

„         (peculiarities  of   cer- 

Baby Language,  234. 

tain),  24,  160. 

Bad  Language,  233. 

Construction,  254. 

Bases,  145, 147,  148. 

„          (synthetic    tendency 

Causatives,  206, 72. 

of).  273- 

Certain    Present,    148,   149, 

x6i, 

Contractions,  25. 

168,  224. 

Correlation  of  Clauses,  173,  255, 

Chinese,  6. 

259, 119.  igi- 

(characters),  9. 

Court  Language,  235. 

(influence),  6.  29, 

32-4» 

Days  (counting  of),  114. 

5«.98, 

Desiderative  Adjective,  161. 

(words),  6,  240. 

Dialects,  8,  20—1  (notes),  159. 

Classifiers,  104. 

Diminutives,  31,  139. 

Comparison,  140,  87. 

Diphthongs,  15. 

Compounds,  30,  42,  99,  loi, 

122, 

Direct  Object,  261. 

128,  134,  206,  211. 

Ellipsis,  262,  94,  j8i,  248. 

Compound  "Penses,  151,  186, 

138. 

Emphasis,  19,  83,  87,  181,  190. 

Concessive  Mood,  181,  162, 

163, 

Enumeration,  73,  77, 78,  81, 98, 99. 

275. 

Errors  (common),  X2,  138. 

„         (idioms),  182. 

Europeanisms,  25,  273. 

Conditional  Base,  148,  163. 

Expletives,  231—4 ;  76, 78,  84. 

(mood),  179,  162, 

163, 

Feminine,  26. 

275- 

Frequentative  form,  183, 163. 

Conjugations,  148, 149, 150. 

Future,  168, 161,  164. 

(First),  150.  148, 

160, 

Gender,  26. 

193.  306,  222. 

Genitive,  64,  73,  84. 

„           (anomalies  of  First), 

Gerund,  175,  i6i ;   also    174,  97, 

157. 

138,  144,  146,  186,  187, 

(Second),    152, 

129, 

188,  189,  191,  198,  223, 

149,  193,  204, 

205, 

227,  244,  248,  255,  259. 

206^207,222. 

„      (emphatic),  162,  177. 

(Third),      152, 

129. 

Honorifics,  238,  ;i2, 139. 

149,  160,  193, 

20«, 

„         (imperatives),  247. 

222. 

(nouns),  249. 

INDEX  OP  SUBJECTS. 


539 


Honorific  (periphrases))  243,  247. 
yi        (in  quotations),  269. 
„        (verbs,)  245. 
Hours  (counting  of),  115. 
Humble  (nouns),  249. 
(verbs),  245. 
Hyphens,  33. 
Hypothetical  Mood,  179. 
Illative  Tenses,  188. 
Imperative,    184,  246,    163;  also 

124,  147,  164,  167. 
Impossibility  (how  expressed),  197. 
Indefinite  form,  148,  173 ;  also  30, 

133. 136,  146,  161,  213,  255,  258. 
Indirect  Object,  261. 
Infinitive,  173,  149. 
Inflections  (of  Adjectives),  117. 

„  (of  Verbs),  145, 

Integration  of  Sentences,  273, 275, 

428. 
Interjections,  231,  84,  89,  90,  187. 
Interrogation,  49,  50,  66,  84,  90, 

no.  229. 
Inversion,  263. 
Isolating  Particle,  83. 
Jesuit  Grammars,  160. 
Kyoto  Dialect,  9,  159,  160. 
Letter-changes,  20,  loi,  105,  157, 

160. 
Literature,  6,  10,  11,  452. 
Masculine,  26. 

Mood,  168,  124,  127,  149,  173. 
Months  (counting  of),  114. 
Must,  170,  178. 
Names  (family),  34. 
„      (men's)  34,  253. 
„     (personal),  34. 


Names  (of  places),  34. 

„     (women's),  34,  253. 
Negative  adjective  naif  125,  136, 

147. 
„      (base),  164, 147, 148,  X49, 
„      (conjugations),   126,  151, 

164, 190,  213. 
„      (interrogation),  230. 
„     (syntax  of),  264. 
Nominative,  64,  86,  88,  196,  255. 
Nouns,  26,  131 — 6,  225. 
„       (abstract),  35, 132. 
„       (compound),  30. 
„       (in  ki  and  gi),  38. 
„       (in  mi),  36. 
„       (in  sa),  35,  174. 
..       (in  ya\  38. 
„       (used  as  adjectives),  42. 
„      (used  as  adverbs),  43. 
„       (verbal),  41. 
Number,  26,  28, 145. 
Numerals,  98. 

„         (auxiliary),  104. 
„         (Chinese),  100. 
„        (fractional),  115. 
„         (ordinal),  1x2. 
One,  ones  (subst.)>  75*  93* 
Onomatopes,  230,  80. 
Ought,  39. 

Participle,  see  Gerund. 
Parts  of  Speech,  11. 
Passive,  193,  etc.;  see  Verbs. 
Past  Participle,  see  Gerund. 
Past  Tenses,  162,  168, 171,  187. 
Person,  44,  145. 
Personification,  272* 
Phonetic  Decay,  147, 157, 167, 227. 


540 


INDEX  OF  S;OBJECTS. 


Place-names,  34. 

Relation  to  other  Languages,  5. 

Pleonastic  Construction,  271. 

Relationship  (degrees  of),  27,  250. 

Plural,  26,  28,  46. 

Roots,  145,  146,  147. 

Poetry,  452. 

Should,  39. 

Positive  Voice,  149,  1501 152. 

Singular,  26,  28. 

Possessive  case,  73. 

Stems,  (of  adjectives),  121,  130. 

Postpositions,  60,  222,  226,  254, 

„      (of  verbs),   145,   147,    157, 

263. 

159.  160. 

„           (combined),  91,  74. 

Subject  (of  sentence),  255,  260, 

Potentials,  ig6,  etc. ;  see  Veibs. 

86,  196. 

Predicative  Phrases,  75,  254. 

Suffixes,  5,  145,  148,  156,  187,  219. 

Present   Tense,  see  Certain  Pre- 

Superlatives, 142. 

sent. 

Surds  and  Sonants,  20. 

Probable  Past,  162,  171. 

Surnames,  34,  253. 

„      present    or    future,    164, 

Syntax,  254. 

168,  186. 

Synthesis  of  Contradictories,  32. 

Pronouns,  44. 

Tense,  168,  124,  127,  149,  173. 

„         (demonstrative),  49,  50. 

„     (compound     continuative). 

„         (indefinite),  49,  50,  52. 

186,  185. 

(interiogative),  49,  50. 

„     (illative),  188. 

(personal).  44,  233,  239, 

Titles,  252. 

250,  261. 

Tokyo  mispronunciations,  15,  16, 

(reflexive),  48. 

17,  18. 

(relative),.  54. 

Tones,  19. 

Pronunciation,  13,  7,  33,  160. 

Unfinished  Sentences,  79,  248, 262. 

Prosody,  452. 

Verbs,  145. 

Quantity  (vowel),  13, 452. 

„      (formed    from   adjectives). 

Quasi- Adjectives,  131. 

130,  220. 

„               (in  so  na)y  133. 

„      (auxiliary),  184. 

Quasi-Postpositions,  94. 

„      (bases  of),  145,  147,  148. 

Quotation,  268,  275. 

„      (causative),  206,  213. 

Reduplication  of  consonants,  18, 

„      (compound),  211. 

22. 

„      (final  omitted),  262,  248,  63. 

„           (of  words),  28,  224, 

„       (in  g^aru),  130. 

226. 

„      (honorific),  245. 

Reflective  pronouns,  48. 

„      (intransitive),  199,  200,  203, 

.     „        verbs,  205. 

185,  194,  199,  205,  221. 

INDEX  OF   SUBJECTS. 


541 


Verbs,  (irregular),   166,  149,    154, 

193,  207. 
„       (in  jiru),  220. 
„      (liable   to   be  confounded), 

221. 
„       (paradigms   of),    148,    150, 

158,  223. 
„      (passive),  193  ;  also  271,  55, 

56,    130,    185,  198,    199, 

202,        207,         2IO,        213, 
221. 

„       (potential),  196,    193,    201, 

213,  244. 
„       (reflective),  205. 
„       (in  sum),  219. 
„      (in  tagaru),  131. 
,,      (To  Be),  215;    also  60 — 2, 

95.    121,   124,   126,   134, 


145,  146,   151,   166,   167, 
185,  186. 
Verbs  (To  Do),  218. 

„      (transitive),  201,  203,   209, 

'220. 

„      (used  as  adjectives),  137. 
M      (used    as    other    parts    of 
speech),  223. 
Vowels,  13. 

„        (harmony  of),  5, 

(quiescent),  14,  15,  i8. 
Western  Peculiarities,  20,  21. 
Women's  Language,  235. 

„       (names),  253. 
Word- building,  33. 
Writing,  9. 

Written  Language,  10. 
Years  (counting  of),  113. 


f  478.  ADDITIONS 


CORRECTIONS. 


J».  3,  line  14,— For  "Scraps  of  Conversations,"  read 
"Fragments  of  Conversation.** 

jp.  31,  jr,  jr.  at  »«if«iM.— The  statement  made  in  this 
N.  B.  is  hardly  correct.  Though  "  puppy  "  is  most  clearly 
rendered  by  inu  no  ko,  "  kitten  **  by  neko  no  ko,  etc.,  such 
forms  as  ko-inu,  ko-neko,  ko-ushi,  etc.,  are  also  in  current 
use.  The  author  is  indebted  to  the  Rev.  Dr.  Gordon, 
of  Kyoto,  for  this  correction. 

j».  ye,  imiierpari  •m  119.— Mr.  Satow  is  of  opinion  that, 
in  such  phrases  as  inshi  no  furui  no  and  kwashi  no  shin- 
ki  ni  yaita  no,  there  is  a  tacit  reference  to  stamps  which 
are  not  old,  and  cakes  which  are  wo^,  freshly  baked — a 
sort  of  emphatic  dwelling  on  the  ideas  of  "  old  **  and 
"freshly  baked.** 

JP.  131,  IT  I9a*-Mr.  Satow  thinks  there  is  little  doubt  but 
that  garu  stands  for  ge  (i.e.,  ke)  aru.  Ke  is  the  ancient 
pronunciation  of  the  character  ft,  "  spirit,'*  "  air,'*  so  that, 
for  instance,  mezurashigaru  would  have  meant  originally 
"  to  have  an  air  of  strangeness."  Compare  with  these 
verbs  in  garu  such  substantives  in  ge  as  abura-ge,  "  an 
oily  appearance,"  "  oiliness." 

JP.  137,'  ir  aoa,  m  m«  *«i«.-Mr.  Satow  suggests  that  the 
kiku  from  which  this  form  kiita  is  derived,  may  be,  not 
the  transitive  verb  kiku,  "to  hear,"  but  an   originally 


ADDITIONS  AND   CORRECTIONS.  543 

different,  and  merely  accidentally  homonymous  intransi- 
tive verb,  signifying  "  to  be  efficacious."  This  would  be 
the  verb  kiku  which  we  find  in  such  expressions  as  kusuri 
ga  kiku,  "  the  medicine  acts." 

jp.  179,  %  987.— In  many  cases,  the  Classical  Conditional 
Mood  is  better  translated  by  "as..."  than  by  "when..." 

J>.  9oy,  \  396.— Mr.  Satow  suggests,  as  a  good  instance 
of  this  form  of  the  causative,  the  verb  imashimeru,  which 
means  "  to  reprove,"  "  to  warn,"  but  which  is  evidently 
nothing  but  the  causative  conjugation  of  the  verb  imUj 
"  to  dread,"  "  to  shun."  To  cause  a  person  to  shun  a 
thing  is,  of  course,  to  warn  him  of  it. 

J>.  980,  »«tr  mud  «rr«fr«.— For  iyumyaj  read  yumi-ya. 

JP.  984.-For  "riend,"  read  "friend." . 

^  CFTHF.  ^ 

THE    END, 


T5KY5  :  PRINTED  BY 

THE  HAKUBUNSHA,   I,  SHICHQME, 

GINZA. 


A. 


/r«. 


VrRSIT-^ 


^,V 


-:^- 


14  DAY  USE 

RETURN  TO  DESK  FROM  WHICH  BORROWED 

LOAN  DEPT. 

This  book  is  due  on  the  last  date  stamped  below,  or 

on  the  date  to  which  renewed. 

Renewed  books  are  subjea  to  immediate  recall. 


JUN    B  1967  ft4 

pp<^.r% 

Mfly3l'67-I0AM 

LOAN  DEPT. 

LD  21A-607n-2,'G7 
(H241slO)476B 


General  Library 

University  of  California 

Berkeley 


YB  52237 


fiii^r  i 


«•   *■>, 


/ 


7/- 


UNIVERSITY  OP  CALIFORNIA  I^IBRARY 


■ftf- 


i^LcsaoQ4  IS  cue  OD  me  tmsr  asTf  UMUiiM^c  iastnv  .TT 
rtc  Docki  £iTe  suD^cz  to  immsaixrr : 


,.  m'  iJHt' 


^ 


'  ^'  ■  •/'  .^^ 


-04^ 


-^^£^. 


