4ART -j;  ■SEKIlKMc 


ammm 

university  of 

Connecticut 

ibraries 

X 

CD 


_     Tl 


BRITL    863.5.M34    c. 
MARMOL    #    AMALIA 


3    T1S3    D0nMi7b    T 

I 

o 


m 


m 


H 
O 


<  > 


^   ">k  may  be  kep' 


AMALIA 


AMALIA 

A  Romance  of  the  Argentine 


TRANSLATED  FROM  THE  SPANISH  OF 

JOSE  MARMOL 


BY 

MARY   J.    SERRANO 

TRANSLATOR  OF 

"The  Jour  .al  of  Marie  Bashkirtsef"  "Pepita  Ximenez"  e^c. 


NEW  YORK 

E.  P.  DUTTON  &  COMPANY 

68 1   Fifth  Avenue 


m^ 


Copyright,  1919 
By  E.  p.  DUTTON  &  COMPANY 


All  Rights  Reserved 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


PREFATORY  NOTE 

-  In  this  picture  of  Argentine  life  during  the  reign  of 
terror  instituted  by  the  Dictator  Rosas,  Daniel,  the  hero 
of  the  story,  represents  the  spirit  incarnate  of  the  best 
elements  of  the  Argentine  people  struggling  for  democracy 
and  freedom,  in  opposition  to  militarism  and  autocracy. 
It  is  in  fact  a  social  study  of  a  period  in  Argentine  history 
during  which  were  laid  the  foundations  of  the  greatness 
of  a  people  whose  soul  is  revealed  in  these  pages  in  the 
vivid  and  intense  emotions  and  feelings  of  actual  life, 
portrayed  with  a  master's  art  by  the  hand  of  an  actor 
in  its  events  who  himself  experienced  the  feelings  he  por- 
trays, as  event  succeeds  event,  as  defeat  succeeds  victory, 
victory  defeat,  but  where  courage  never  fails  and  where 
confidence  in  the  ultimate  triumph  of  Freedom  and  of 
Right  is  never  lost.  And  over  all  is  spread  the  magic 
glamour  of  deathless  love,  redeeming  the  suffering  and  the 
bitterness  of  defeat  and  exalting  and  ennobling  the  vision 
of  a  victory  still  to  be  won,  but  to  be  surely  won. 

M.  J.  S. 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

I.  Treachery i 

II.  The  First  Dressing i8 

III.  The  Letters 35 

-IV.  The  Dinner  Hour 44 

---  V.  Commandant  Cuitino 59 

VI.  Victorica 67 

VII.  Sir  John  Henry  Mandeville 77 

-  VIII.  An  Angel  and  a  Demon 94 

IX.  One  of  Damel's  Agents 108 

X.  In  wmcH  the  Man  with  the  Bamboo  Cane  Makes 

His  Appearance 115 

""XI.  Florencia  and  Daniel 126 

XII.  President  Salomon 132 

-XIII.  The  White  Rose .       .142 

XIV.  Scenes  in  a  Ballroom 153 

XV.  Daniel  Bello 164 

XVI.  Scenes  in  a  Ballroom  Continued       .       .       .       .175 

XVII.  After  the  Ball 181 

^  XVIII.  Dona  Mar'a  Josefa  Escurra 185 

XIX.  Two  of  a  Kind 194 

^XX.  Prologue  of  a  Drama 201 

"TXXI.  A  Restless  Night 217 

-'•XXII.  Continuation  of  the  Preceding 223 

XXIII.  Of  How  Things  are  Read  that  are  not  Written     .  230 

XXIV.  How  We  Discovered  that  Don  Candido  Rodriguez 

Resembled  Don  Juan  Manuel  Rosas  .       .       .  239 

XXV.  The  Two  Friends .  244 

"OCXVI.  Amalia  in  Presence  of  the  Police    .       .    "  .  "   .  250 

vii  — 


viii  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  _  PAGE 

XXVII.  Manuela  Rosas 258 

XXVIII.  Continuation  of  the  Preceeding  .       .       .       .265 

-^  XXIX.  The  Solitary  House 270 

-«"XXX.  The  OrFiCER  of  the  Day 281 

XXXI.  Continuation  of  the  Preceding     .       .       .       .291 
XXXII.  Country,  Lo\te  and  Friendship      .       .       .       .299 

XXXIII.  Don  Candido  Rodriguez  Appears  as  He  Always 

Appears 305 

XXXIV.  Pylades  Angry 313 

XXXV.  The  Smuggler  of  Men 321 

XXXVI.  The  Chief  of  the  Night-watchmen     .       .       .329 

—XXXVII.  The  Launch 340 

XXXVIII.  The  Federal  Patrol 351 

^  XXXIX.  Of  Forty  only  Ten 363 

XL.  English  Sanctuary 369 

XLI.  Mr.  Slade ^    •  3^0 

XLII.  How  Don  Candido  was  a  Relation  of  Cxhtino's  391 

XLIII.  The  Warning  of  the  Soul 403 

-tXLIV.  The  Brh>al  Veil 407 

—XLV.  The  Nuptial  Couch 411 

Epilogue 4^9 


INTRODUCTION 

Among  the  political  chiefs  of  South  America  Juan 
Manuel  Rosas,  the  Argentine  ruler,  for  the  unscrupulous- 
ness  of  his  aims  and  the  ruthlessness  of  his  methods  in 
seeking  to  attain  them  stands  out  a  sanguinary  figure.  Suc- 
ceeding General  Lavalle  in  1835  ^s  Governor  with  extra- 
ordinary powers,  of  Buenos  Ayres,  his  rule  was  for  the 
country  a  reign  of  terror;  and  the  blood-red  color  which 
he  chose  for  his  own  w^as  emblematic  of  the  policy  of 
persecution  against  his  political  opponents,  the  Unitarians, 
or  Unionists,  which  guided  it. 

Nor  were  the  political  enemies  of  Rosas,  in  Buenos 
Ayres,  the  only  victims  of  his  sanguinary  policy.  More 
than  one  sudden  death  among  the  Federal  leaders  before 
he  finally  became  chief  of  the  party  was  rightly,  it  is  be- 
lieved, attributed  to  him;  and  foreign  residents  were  so 
frequently  the  objects  of  his  persecution  as  to  draw  forth 
repeated  remonstrances  from  England  and  France.  His 
policy  was  one  of  isolation  for  the  Republic,  this  policy 
extending  even  to  its  commercial  relations  with  other 
countries;  and  for  the  country  itself  of  retrogression  and 
ignorance.  Freedom  of  speech  was  interdicted,  individual 
rights  were  disregarded;  and  so  characteristic  of  Federal- 
ism (in  consonance  with  the  tastes  of  Rosas  who,  although 
of  noble  family,  had  little  culture  or  breeding),  was  a  con- 
tempt for  the  amenities  of  life  that  a  regard  for  these  came 
to  be  considered  a  distinctive  mark  of  Unitarianism. 

ix  i 


X  INTRODUCTION 

This  despotic  rule  of  Rosas  had  continued  for  a  little 
more  than  five  years  when  the  opening  events  of  the 
Romance  take  place,  Rosas  having  been  since  his  assump- 
tion of  power  not  only  practically  Dictator  of  the  Province 
of  Buenos  Ayres,  but  practically  also  arbiter  of  the  destinies 
of  the  whole  Argentine  Republic,  the  other  provinces,  most 
of  which  he  had  brought  under  his  control,  whether  by 
force,  fraud  or  guile,  acknowledging  tacitly  the  supremacy 
of  Buenos  Ayres.  Ambitious  of  exercising  a  like  control 
over  Uruguay,  and  eager  to  gratify  his  hatred  of 
Rivera,  the  successor  of  Oribe,  the  exiled  President  of  the 
latter  country,  for  the  favor  shown  the  Unitarian  refugees 
in  Montevideo,  he  had,  in  July,  1839,  invaded  the  territory 
of  that  Republic  with  an  army  of  7000  men.  The  defeat 
of  this  army  and  tlie  invasion  of  Buenos  Ayres  by  the 
Unitarian  chief,  Lavalle,  which  followed,  seemed  to  hold 
out  a  hope  to  the  Unitarians  of  happier  days  for  their  coun- 
try through  the  downfall  of  the  tyrant.  But  this  hope  was 
for  the  time  and  for  years  to  come,  destined  to  prove  illu- 
sory. General  Lavalle  was  defeated ;  the  Unitarian  chiefs  of 
the  interior  were  relentlessly  persecuted  and  a  price  was  set 
on  their  heads;  and  General  Oribe,  at  the  head  of  14,000 
men,  again  invaded  Uruguay  and  laid  siege  to  Montevideo. 
But  the  tide  slowly  turned.  France  and  England  intervened 
in  favor  of  Uruguay.  The  French  fleet,  which  had  more 
or  less  continuously  blockaded  Buenos  Ayres,  since  1838, 
was  joined  by  the  English  fleet,  and  both  fleets  combined 
began  the  blockade  of  Buenos  Ayres,  on  September  18, 
1845.  The  siege  of  Montevideo,  however,  was  still  main- 
tained and  Rosas  refused  to  accede  to  the  terms  of  the 
allies.  The  treaty  of  peace  which  he  finally  concluded  with 
them,  in  November,  1849,  ^Y  ^ts  favorable  terms  to  the 
Dictator,  in  the  end  brought  about  the  overthrow  of  Rosas. 


INTRODUCTION  xi 

The  navigation  of  the  La  Plata,  Uruguay  and  upper  Parana 
rivers  was  left  in  the  control  of  Buenos  Ayres  to  the  ex- 
clusion of  the  interior  provinces,  not  excepting  even  the 
river  provinces  of  Corrientes  and  Entre-Rios.  The  dis- 
satisfaction of  the  excluded  provinces  was  profound,  and 
General  Urquiza,  Governor  of  Entre-Rios,  issued  a  mani- 
festo on  May  i,  1851,  calling  on  the  other  provinces  to 
rise  against  the  dictator.  An  alliance,  offensive  and 
defensive,  was  formed  with  Brazil  and  Uruguay,  and 
Urquiza,  aided  with  money  and  men  by  the  former  country, 
marched  against  Oribe's  army  in  Uruguay.  Oribe  was 
defeated,  the  siege  of  Montevideo  was  raised,  and  Urquiza, 
reinforced  by  the  troops  of  Oribe,  who  had  abandoned  their 
leaders  after  his  defeat,  marched  against  Buenos  Ayres, 
The  Dictator,  then  intrenched  at  Palerno  and  Santos 
Lugares,  encountered  the  allied  forces  and  was  defeated  by 
them  at  Monte  Caseros,  on  February  3,  1852.  Taking 
refuge  on  a  British  man-of-war  he  was  carried  to  England, 
where  he  lived  in  retirement  on  an  estate  which  he  pur- 
chased near  Southampton,  until  his  death,  on  March 
14,  1877. 


,  _  ^ROPEBiY  OF 


AMALIA 


CHAPTER  I 


TREACHERY 


On  the  night  of  the  4th  of  May,  1840,  at  half -past  ten 
o'clock,  a  party  of  six  men  might  be  seen  crossing  the  inner 
courtyard  of  a  small  house  in  the  Calle  de  Belgrano,  in  the 
city  of  Buenos  Ay  res.  On  entering  the  hall  which  led  to 
the  street  door  and  which  was  dark,  like  the  rest  of  the 
house,  one  of  the  party  stopped  and  said : 

"We  must  not  all  leave  the  house  together.  There  are 
six  of  us;  let  three  of  us  go  first,  taking  the  opposite  side 
of  the  street;  a  few  minutes  afterward  let  the  other  three 
follow,  taking  this  side  and  let  us  all  meet  at  the  corner  of 
the  Calle  de  Balcarce." 

"A  good  idea." 

"Well,  then,  I  will  go  first  with  Merlo  and  my  friend 
here,"  said  a  young  man  who  wore  a  sword  and  who  seemed 
to  be  the  youngest  of  the  party,  indicating  by  a  gesture  the 
man  who  had  first  spoken.  And  unbolting  the  door  he 
opened  it  and  muffling  his  face  in  his  long  blue  cloak  crossed 
to  the  opposite  side  of  the  street,  accompanied  by  the  two 
men  whom  he  had  designated  and  walked  in  the  direction 
of  the  river. 


2  AMALIA 

A  few  moments  later  the  other  three  men  left  the  house 
and  fastening  the  door  behind  them  took  the  same  direc- 
tion, without  crossing  the  street. 

After  walking  a  short  distance  in  silence  the  companion 
of  the  young  man  with  the  sword  said  to  him,  while  the  one 
whom  they  had  called  Merlo  preceded  them,  muffled  in  his 
poncho : 

"It  is  a  sad  thought,  my  friend,  that  this  is  perhaps  the 
last  time  we  shall  ever  walk  through  the  streets  of  our 
native  city.  We  are  leaving  it  to  join  an  army  that  is  to  see 
hard  fighting,  and  Heaven  alone  knows  what  fate  may 
befall  us  in  the  war." 

"I  feel  only  too  deeply  the  truth  of  what  you  say,"  re- 
turned the  other,  "but  the  step  we  are  taking  is  unavoid- 
able. And  yet,"  he  continued,  after  a  few  moments' 
silence,  "there  is  one  person,  at  least,  who  is  of  a  different 
way  of  thinking  from  us." 

"What  do  you  mean?" 

"That  is  to  say,  who  thinks  that  it  is  our  duty  as  Argen- 
tines to  remain  in  Buenos  Ayres." 

"Notwithstanding  Rosas?" 

"Notwithstanding  Rosas." 

"And  that  we  ought  not  to  go  join  the  army?" 

"Just  so." 

"Bah!  Then  he  must  be  either  a  coward  or  a 
Mashorquero."* 

"He  is  neither  the  one  nor  the  other.  On  the  contrary, 
he  is  brave  to  rashness,  and  there  is  not  among  all  the 
young  men  of  our  day  one  who  has  a  nobler  or  purer  heart 
than  his." 

♦Member  of  the  Mashorca,  a  political  society  whose  union  was  S3mibol- 
ized  by  an  ear  of  com  (Mazorca)  and  whose  object  was  the  propaganda  of 
mas-horca  (more  gallows). 


TREACHERY  3 

"And  what  would  he  have  us  do,  then  ?" 

"He  would  have  us  all  remain  in  Buenos  Ayres,"  re- 
turned the  young  man  with  the  sword,  "because  the  enemy 
we  have  to  fight  is  in  Buenos  Ayres,  and  not  in  the  army; 
and  he  argues  with  a  great  show  of  reason  that  fewer  of 
us  would  die  in  the  streets  on  the  day  of  a  revolution, 
than  on  the  field  of  battle  during  five  or  six  months'  fight- 
ing, without  the  slightest  probability  of  conquering  in  the 
end.  But  let  us  drop  this  subject  for  in  Buenos  Ayres  the 
air  hears,  the  light  sees,  and  the  sto.ies  and  the  dust  repeat 
our  words  to  the  destroyers  of  our  liberty." 

As  the  conversation  had  become  more  animated  and 
they  were  approaching  the  barrancas  bordering  the  river, 
Merlo  had  from  time  to  time  slackened  his  steps  or  stood 
still  for  a  moment,  ostensibly  to  muffle  his  face  more  closely 
in  his  poncho.  When  they  reached  the  Calle  de  Balcarce 
he  stopped  and  said : 

"We  are  to  wait  here  for  the  others." 

"Are  you  quite  certain  about  the  place  where  we  are  to 
take  the  boat?"  said  the  young  man  with  the  sword. 

"Perfectly  certain,"  answered  Merlo.  "I  have  promised 
to  take  you  to  it,  and  I  will  keep  my  word,  as  you  have 
kept  yours,  giving  me  the  money  agreed  upon — not  for 
myself,  for  I  am  as  good  a  patriot  as  anyone,  but  to  pay 
the  men  who  are  to  take  you  over  to  the  other  side;  and 
you  shall  soon  see  what  sort  of  men  they  are." 

The  young  man's  penetrating  eyes  were  fixed  on  those 
of  Merlo  when  the  other  three  men  of  the  party  arrived. 

"Now  we  must  not  separate  again,"  said  one  of  these. 
"Go  you  in  front,  Merlo,  and  show  us  the  way." 

Merlo  took  the  lead  accordingly  and  following  the  Calle 
de  Venezuela  for  some  distance  finally  turned  into  the 
lane  of   San  Lorenzo,   down  which  he  proceeded  in  the 


4  AMALIA 

direction  of  the  river,  whose  waters  here  wash  gently  the 
verdant  shores  of  Buenos  Ayres. 

The  night  was  calm  and  starlit  and  a  fresh  breeze  from 
the   south   already  announced   the   approaching   frosts   of 
'^;v  winter. 

By  the  faint  light  of  the  stars  the  Plata  could  be  seen, 
wild  and  deserted  as  the  Pampa,  and  the  murmur  of  its 
waters,  breaking  gently  on  the  level  beach  seemed  like  the 
tranquil  breathing  of  this  colossus  of  American  rivers 
whose  bosom  was  laden  with  thirty  French  vessels  at  the 
time  at  which  the  events  v/e  are  relating  took  place. 

While  our  fugitives  are  silently  pursuing  their  way  we 
will  avail  ourselves  of  the  opportunity  to  make  them  known 
by  name  to  the  reader. 

The  man  who  walked  in  advance  of  all  the  others  was 
Juan  Merlo,  a  man  of  the  people;  of  that  people  of  Buenos 
Ayres  who  are  connected  with  the  civilized  races  by  their 
dress,  with  the  gaucho  by  their  antipathy  to  civilization, 
and  with  the  Pampa  by  their  idle  habits.  Merlo,  as  we 
know,  was  the  guide  of  the  party. 

A  few  steps  behind  him  walked  Colonel  Francisco 
Lynch,  a  veteran  of  the  war  of  1813,  a  man  of  culture, 
of  high  social  standing,  and  remarkable  for  his  personal 
beauty. 

Immediately  behind  him  walked  Eduardo  Belgrano,  a 
relation  of  the  general  of  the  same  name,  and  the  possessor 
of  an  ample  fortune  in  his  own  right — a  young  man  of  a 
brave  and  generous  heart,  with  a  mind  highly  pfted  by 
nature  and  enriched  by  study.  This  is  the  young  rran  with 
the  sword  whom  our  readers  already  know. 

Behind   him    walked    Oliden,    Riglos    and    IMaisson,    all 
Argentines. 
^    In  this  order  they  arrived  at  that  part  of  the  Bajo  situated 


TREACHERY  6 

between  the  Residencla  and  the  lofty  barranca  overlooking 
Barracas ;  that  is  to  say,  they  were  at  a  point  parallel  with 
the  house  of  Sir  John  Henry  Mandeville,  the  English 
Minister. 

Here  Merlo  stopped  and  said: 

"It  is  somewhere  here  about  that  the  boat  is  to  put  in." 

His  hearers  all  looked  toward  the  river,  endeavoring  to 
discover  in  the  darkness  the  boat  of  salvation,  while  Merlo, 
on  the  contrary,  seemed  to  look  for  it  on  the  land,  for 
his  eyes  were  turned,  not  tov/ard  the  water  on  which  those 
of  the  fugitives  were  fixed,  but  in  the  direction  of  Barracas. 

"It  is  not  there,"  said  Merlo,  at  last;  "it  is  not  there; 
we  must  go  on  a  little  further." 

The  party  followed  him  accordingly;  but  they  had  not 
been  walking  two  minutes  when  Colonel  Lynch,  who  was 
immediately  behind  Merlo,  perceived  directly  in  front  of 
them,  at  a  distance  of  thirty  or  forty  yards,  a  troop  of 
horsemen/ and  as  he  turned  to  inform  his  companions  of 
the  fact,  a  "Who  goes  there?"  broke  the  silence  of  the 
solitary  re.^ion,  filling  the  minds  of  all  with  sudden  alarm. 

"Make  no  response;  I  will  go  on  ahead  and  find  out  if 
I  can  how  many  of  them  there  are,"  said  Merlo;  and  with- 
out waiting  for  an  answer  he  walked  on  a  little  distance 
and  then  set  off  at  a  run  for  the  barrancas,  at  the  same 
time  giving  a  shrill  whistle. 

A  confused  and  terrific  noise  immediately  responded  to 
this  signal — the  noise  made  by  the  charge  of  fifty  horsemen, 
who  in  an  instant  had  descended  like  a  torrent  upon  the 
unfortunate  fugitives. 

Colonel  Lynch  had  hardly  time  to  take  one  of  the  pistols 
he  carried  from  his  pocket,  and  raise  it  to  fire  before  he 
was  trampled  to  the  ground  by  one  of  the  horses. 
'  Maisson  and  Oliden  succeeded  each  in  firing  a  shot,  and 


6  AMALIA 

then  they  too  were  trampled  down,  as  Colonel  Lynch  had 
been. 

Riglos  attempted  to  defend  himself  by  thrusting  the  point 
of  his  dagger  into  the  breast  of  the  horse  bearing  down 
upon  him  but  he  too  was  thrown  to  the  ground  by  the 
irresistible  shock,  horse  and  rider  falling  over  him.  But 
the  horseman,  rising  quickly  to  his  feet,  plunged  his  dagger 
thrice  into  the  breast  of  Riglos,  making  the  unhappy  man 
the  first  victim  of  that  fatal  night. 

Lynch,  Maisson  and  Oliden,  trampled  under  the  horses' 
hoofs,  stunned  and  bleeding,  were  soon  dispatched  by  the 
knives  of  their  assailants. 

And  while  the  latter,  dismounting,  gathered  around  the 
bodies  of  the  slain  to  rifle  them  of  their  jewels  and  money, 
and  all  was  darkness  and  confusion  here,  a  hundred  paces 
away  Eduardo  Belgrano  was  defending  himself  desperately 
against  four  of  the  assassins. 

At  the  moment  when  the  attack  had  been  made  upon 
the  fugitives,  and  just  as  Colonel  Lynch  fell,  Eduardo, 
who  was  directly  behind  the  latter,  had  run  toward  the 
barrancas,  thus  escaping  the  onset  of  the  horses.  But  if 
he  had  escaped  the  onset  of  the  horses  he  had  not  escaped 
being  seen.  His  left  shoulder  grazed  the  thigh  of  one 
of  the  horsemen,  the  latter  turned  his  horse  around  quickly, 
one  of  his  companions  followed  his  example,  and  both, 
sword  in  hand,  attacked  Eduardo. 

The  latter,  who  had  unsheathed  his  sword  and  torn  off 
his  cloak  and  wound  it  around  his  left  arm,  flung  himself 
between  the  two  horsemen  and  shielding  his  head  with 
the  arm  thus  protected  plunged  his  sword  in  the  breast  of 
the  man  on  his  right,  killing  him  instantly.  Before  the 
body  of  the  dead  man  had  reached  the  ground  Eduardo 


JREACHERY  7 

had  retreated  a  dozen  paces  more  in  the  direction  of  the 
city. 

At  this  instant  three  others  of  the  assassins  came  to  the 
assistance  of  their  companion,  and  the  four  charged  to- 
gether upon  Eduardo. 

He  in  turn  sHpped  quickly  to  the  right,  to  avoid  the  shock, 
at  the  same  time  deaHng  the  horse  nearest  him  a  tremendous 
blow  with  his  sword,  on  the  side  of  the  head.  The  animal 
reared  and  fell  back  upon  the  horses  behind  him,  and  his 
rider,  thinking  that  his  horse  had  been  mortally  wounded, 
thr^v  himself  to  the  ground  to  escape  falling  with  him. 
The  other  men  dismounted  at  the  same  time,  imitating  their 
companion's  action,  of  the  cause  of  which  they  were 
ignorant. 

Eduardo  now  flung  away  his  cloak  and  retreated  ten  or 
twelve  paces  more.  For  an  instant  he  thought  of  taking  to 
flight,  but  he  quickly  comprehended  that  flight  would  ex- 
haust his  strength  without  profiting  him  anything,  since 
his  pursuers  would  assuredly  remount  their  horses  and 
quickly  overtake  him. 

This  thought,  however,  had  scarcely  flashed  through  his 
mind  before  the  assassins  were  upon  him,  three  of  them 
armed  with  swords  and  the  fourth  with  a  butcher's  knife. 
Eduardo  received  their  attack  with  coolness  and  courage 
and  alternately  parrying  their  strokes  and  dealing  blows 
around  him  he  continued  to  retreat  in  the  direction  of  the 
city,  drawing  his  assailants  at  every  step  farther  and 
farther  away  from  their  companions,  from  whom  they  were 
soon  hidden  by  the  darkness. 

Thus,  fighting  and  retreating,  he  had  slain  another  of 
the  ruffians,  and  was  raising  his  sword  to  bring  it  down 
with  all  his  force  upon  the  head  of  a  third,  when,  simul- 
taneously, the  point  of  a  saber  penetrated  his  left  side  and 


8  AMALIA 

the  edge  of  another  saber  made  a  deep  gash  in  his  right 
shoulder. 

Collecting  all  his  remaining  strength  he  succeeded  in 
parrying  a  blow  aimed  at  him  by  his  nearest  antagonist; 
but,  losing  his  balance,  he  fell  forward  upon  the  ground, 
dragging  with  him  his  opponent,  whose  heart  his  own 
weapon  had  pierced. 

The  two  men  who  still  continued  fighting  now  advanced 
toward  Eduardo,  thinking  to  dispatch  him  at  once,  but  the 
latter,  raising  himself  with  an  effort  and  resting  his  right 
elbow  on  the  body  of  the  dead  man  beside  him,  grasped 
his  sword  in  his  left  hand  and  placing  himself  on  the 
defensive,  prepared  to  sell  his  life  dearly. 

Even  in  this  helpless  condition  his  assailants  advanced 
toward  him  cautiously.  One  of  them  approached  him  from 
the  side  and  dealt  him  a  powerful  stroke  with  his  saber 
on  the  left  thigh  which,  even  if  he  had  had  the  time  and 
the  strength  to  do  so,  he  was  unable  from  his  position  to 
parry;  while  the  other,  seizing  him  by  the  hair,  as  he  made 
a  last  desperate  effort  to  rise,  and  pulling  his  head  back- 
ward by  it,  was  about  to  draw  his  knife  across  the  young 
man's  throat,  when  the  sound  of  a  dull  blow  was  heard, 
and  the  ruffian  fell  face  downward  upon  the  body  of  his 
intended  victim.  j 

'tYou  shall  have  your  share,  too,"  said  the  calm,  stern 
voice  of  a  man  who,  appearing  upon  the  scene  as  suddenly 
as  if  he  had  dropped  from  the  sky,  advanced  with  uplifted 
weapon  toward  the  last  of  Eduardo's  assailants,  who  was 
holding  the  young  man  by  the  feet,  not  venturing,  in  spite 
of  his  almost  lifeless  condition,  to  come  within  reach  of 
his  hands.  But  the  ruffian,  without  waiting  for  the  new- 
comer's approach,  sprang  to  his  feet,  retreated  a  step,  and 
then  ran  swiftly  in  the  direction  of  the  river. 


TREACHERY  9 

The  man  thus  sent  by  Providence,  as  it  seemed,  to  the 
scene,  without  making  any  attempt  to  pursue  the  fugitive 
returned  to  the  group  of  dead  and  wounded  of  which 
Eduardo  formed  the  center. 

Uttering  the  name  of  the  latter  in  a  tone  of  mingled 
anxiety  and  affection,  he  lifted  in  his  arms  the  body  of  the 
ruffian  who  had  fallen  upon  him,  laid  it  on  the  ground, 
and,  kneeling  on  one  knee  beside  Eduardo,  raised  the  young 
man  to  a  sitting  position  and  supported  his  head  gently  on 
his  breast. 

*'He  is  still  living,"  he  said  aloud,  after  satisfying  him- 
self that  the  wounded  man  still  breathed.  And  taking 
Eduardo's  hand  in  his  a  slight  pressure  told  him  that  the 
wounded  man  was  indeed  still  living  and  had  recognized 
him. 

Hesitating  no  longer,  after  casting  an  uneasy  glance 
around  he  rose  to  his  feet,  and  passing  his  left  arm  around 
Eduardo's  waist  he  lifted  him  to  his  shoulder  and  took 
the  road  to  the  neighboring  barranca,  on  which  the  English 
Minister's  house  was  situated. 

The  firmness  and  security  of  his  step  showed  that  the 
path  he  trod  was  familiar  ground. 

"Ah !"  he  cried  suddenly,  ''it's  hardly  a  couple  of  hundred 

yards  more,  but  I  must  stop  to  rest,  for "    And  feeling 

Eduardo's  body  slipping  in  the  blood  which  covered  them 
both,  from  between  his  arms  to  the  ground,  ''Eduardo!" 
he  cried,  putting  his  lips  close  to  the  latter's  ear,  "Eduardo ! 
it  is  I !  Daniel,  your  friend,  your  companion,  your  brother, 
Daniel !" 

The  wounded  man  slowly  moved  his  head  and  half 
opened  his  eyes.  Revived  by  the  cool  night  breeze,  the 
faintness  caused  by  loss  of  blood,  which  had  come  over 
him,  was  beginning  to  pass  away. 


10  AMALIA 

"Fly — .  Save  yourself,  Daniel !"  were  the  first  words  he 
uttered. 

''Don't  think  of  me,  Eduardo,"  answered  Daniel. 
"Think  of — there — ^pass  your  left  arm  around  my  neck; 
now,  lean  all  your  weight — But  what  the  devil  is  this? 
Have  you  been  fighting  with  your  left  hand  that  you  still 
hold  your  sword  grasped  in  it  ?  Ah,  my  poor  friend !  those 
miscreants  must  have  disabled  your  right  hand.  And  to 
think  that  I  was  not  with  you!'*  And  as  he  spoke  thus, 
wishing  to  draw  from  Eduardo's  lips  some  word  in 
response  which  would  enlighten  him  in  regard  to  the 
wounded  man's  real  condition,  although  he  dreaded  the 
knowledge,  Daniel  again  lifted  Eduardo  in  his  arms  and 
continued  on  his  way. 

After  they  had  proceeded  a  short  distance  the  wounded 
man,  revived  by  the  motion  and  the  breeze,  said  in  affec- 
tionate tones: 

"Enough,  Daniel;  with  the  support  of  your  arm  I  think 
I  can  walk  a  little  now." 

"That  will  not  be  necessary,"  answered  the  other,  putting 
him  gently  on  his  feet;  "we  have  reached  our  destination." 

Eduardo  remained  standing  for  a  moment;  but  the 
wound  in  his  thigh  reached  almost  to  the  bone,  and  the 
excruciating  pain  which  he  felt  in  this  position  made  his 
knees  bend  under  him. 

"I  imagined  you  would  not  be  able  to  remain  long  upon 
your  feet,"  said  Daniel,  with  feigned  naturalness,  for  the 
blood  froze  in  his  veins  at  the  thought  that  Eduardo's 
wounds  might  be  mortal.  "But  fortunately,"  he  continued, 
"we  are  now  in  a  place  where  I  can  leave  you  in  safety, 
while  I  go  in  search  of  a  means  of  taking  you  somewhere 
else." 

So  saying,  he  lifted  his  friend  once  more  in  his  arms  and 


TREACHERY  11 

descended  with  him  to  the  bottom  of  a  trench,  four  or 
five  feet  in  depth,  which  had  been  opened  a  few  days 
before,  some  twenty  feet  distant  from  the  side  wall  of 
a  house  situated  on  the  barranca  which  Daniel  had  just 
climbed  v/ith  his  heavy  but  precious  burden — a  house  which 
was  none  other  than  that  of  the  British  Minister,  Sir  John 
Henry  Mandeville. 

Placing  his  friend  in  a  reclining  position  at  the  bottom 
of  the  trench  Daniel  asked  him  where  he  was  wounded. 

'*I  don't  know,  but  I  feel  excruciating  pains  here  and 
here,''  replied  Eduardo,  taking  Daniel's  hand  and  placing 
it  first  on  his  right  shoulder  and  then  on  his  left  thigh. 

Daniel  once  more  breathed  freely. 

"If  you  are  wounded  only  there  it  is  nothing,  my  dear 
Eduardo,"  he  said,  pressing  him  in  his  arms  with  the 
effusiveness  of  one  who  has  just  been  relieved  from  a 
painful  uncertainty;  but  at  the  pressure  of  his  arms 
Eduardo  uttered  a  sharp  cry  of  pain. 

*'I  must  be  wounded — yes — I  am  wounded  here,"  he  said, 
placing  Daniel's  hand  on  his  left  side — **but  the  worst  is 
the  thigh;  the  wound  in  the  thigh  pains  me  horribly." 

"Wait  a  moment,"  said  Daniel,  taking  from  his  pocket 
a  handkerchief  and  proceeding  to  bind  the  wounded  limb 
tightly  with  it.  ''This  will  at  least  stop  the  bleeding  in 
some  degree,"  he  continued.  ''And  now  let  us  see  to  the 
side.    Is  it  here  you  feel  the  wound?" 

"Yes." 

"Then — my  neckcloth  will  do  for  that,"  and  taking  off 
his  neckcloth  he  bound  his  friend's  chest  tightly  with  it. 

All  this  he  said  and  did  feigning  a  confidence  which  had 
begun  to  desert  him  as  soon  as  he  learned  that  Eduardo 
had  received  a  wound  in  the  breast,  which  possibly  extended 
to  some  vital  organ.    And  as  if  in  mockery  of  the  tragically 


12  AMALIA 

romantic  situation  of  the  two  young  men,  the  strains  of 
a  piano  at  this  moment  reached  their  ears — Sir  John  Henry 
Mandeville  was  on  this  night  entertaining  a  small  party  of 
friends. 

*'Ah!"  said  Daniel,  as  he  finished  binding  his  friend's 
wound,  *'his  Excellency,  the  British  Minister,  is  diverting 
himself." 

Eduardo  was  about  to  say  something  in  reply  w^ien  sud- 
denly Daniel  placed  his  hand  upon  the  young  man's  lips. 

"I  think  I  hear  a  noise,"  he  said,  feeling  for  his  sword. 

Nor  was  he  mistaken.  The  noise  of  horses'  hoofs  could 
now  be  plainly  heard  and  a  moment  later  the  sound  of 
voices,  conversing,  reached  the  ears  of  the  two  friends. 

The  sounds  grew  momently  louder;  and  soon  the  words 
of  the  speakers  were  clearly  distinguishable. 

"See,"  said  one  of  them,  when  they  were  within  ten 
or  twelve  paces  of  the  trench,  ''let  us  light  a  cigar  and 
count  the  money  by  its  light  here;  for  I  have  no  desire 
to  go  to  the  Boca ;  I  want  to  be  getting  home." 

''Let  us  dismount,  then,"  answered  the  other;  and  the 
two  men  dismounted  from  their  horses,  the  brass  scabbards 
of  their  swords  clanking,  as  their  feet  touched  the  ground. 

Leading  their  animals  by  the  bridle,  they  walked  to  the 
trench  and  seated  themselves  close  to  the  edge  of  it,  a  few 
paces  distant  from  Daniel  and  Eduardo. 

One  of  the  men,  taking  his  smoking  outfit  from  his 
pocket,  struck  fire,  lighted  a  cigar,  and  then  said  to  his 
companion : 

"Here,  give  me  the  bills,  one  by  one." 

The  other,  taking  off  his  hat,  drew  from  it  a  roll  of 
bank-notes,  one  of  which  he  handed  to  his  companion  who, 
holding  it  close  to  the  lighted  end  of  the  cigar  which  he 


TREACHERY  IS 

held  between  his  lips,  puffed  vigorously,  illuminating  the 
note  with  the  light  thus  obtained. 

*'ioo!"  said  the  other,  who  had  placed  his  face  close  to 
his  companion's,  in  order  to  see  the  figures  on  the  note 
for  himself. 

''loo!"  repeated  the  man  with  the  cigar,  sending  a  cloud 
of  smoke  from  between  his  lips. 

And  the  same  operation  that  he  had  performed  with  this 
note  was  performed  with  thirty  others  of  the  same 
denomination.  After  each  of  the  men  had  taken  as  his 
share  1500  dollars,  one  half  of  the  3000  dollars 
to  which  the  notes  amounted,  the  man  with  the  cigar  said: 

"I  thought  it  would  be  more!  If  we  had  dispatched  the 
other  we'd  have  had  the  bag  of  ounces.'* 

''Well,  for  my  part,  I  am  not  going  to  look  for  him." 

'Took  for  him?  No,  indeed!  As  for  me,  I  am  going 
to  the  Boca,"  responded  the  man  who  had  carried  the  notes 
in  his  hat,  rising  and  tranquilly  mounting  his  horse,  while 
his  companion  remained  seated  on  the  ground. 

"All  right,"  repUed  the  latter;  "I  will  stay  here  and 
finish  my  cigar.  To-morrow  I  will  call  for  you  at  day- 
break, so  that  we  can  go  together  to  the  barracks." 

"Till  to-morrow,  then,"  replied  the  other;  and  turning 
his  horse's  head,  he  set  off  at  a  trot  for  the  Boca. 

A  few  moments  later  the  man  who  had  remained  behind 
put  his  hand  into  his  pocket  and  drew  from  it  an  object 
which  he  examined  by  the  light  of  the  cigar  in  his  mouth. 

"And  the  watch  is  gold !"  he  said.  "No  one  saw  me  take 
this,  and  the  money  I  get  for  it  I'll  divide  v/ith  no  one." 

And  he  again  examined  the  watch  closely  by  the  light 
of  his  cigar. 

"And  it  is  going,  too!"  he  continued,  putting  it  to  his 
ear;  "but  I  don't  know  how  to  tell  the  time  by  it "  and 


14  AMALIA 

he  illuminated  his  treasure  again — "it  takes  the  Unitarians* 
to  do  that;  but  what  I  do  know  is  that  it  must  be  after 
twelve  o'clock,  and  that " 

**This  is  your  last  hour,  scoundrel !"  cried  Daniel,  giving 
the  ruffian  a  blow  on  the  head  with  the  same  instrument 
with  which  he  had  struck  the  head  of  the  man  who  had 
been  about  to  cut  Eduardo's  throat;  an  instrument  which 
seemed  as  fatal  in  its  effect  as  a  ball  fired  from  a  cannon, 
each  of  the  men  struck  by  it  having  fallen  lifeless  to  the 
ground  without  uttering  a  single  sound. 

Daniel,  who  had  ascended  from  the  trench  and  had 
approached  the  ruffian  as  silently  as  a  shadow,  now  took 
the  dead  man's  horse  by  the  bridle  and  led  it  to  the  edge 
of  the  trench,  into  which  he  descended  again,  still  holding 
the  bridle ;  and  embracing  his  friend  he  said : 

''Courage,  courage,  Eduardo ;  now  you  are  free — safe. 
Providence  has  sent  us  a  horse,  which  was  the  one  thing 
we  needed.'* 

"Yes,  I  feel  a  little  better,  but  you  will  have  to  help  me 
still.    I  cannot  stand." 

"Don't  tax  your  strength,"  said  Daniel,  taking  Eduardo 
once  more  in  his  arms  and  lifting  him  up  to  the  edge  of 
the  trench.  After  which,  vaulting  up  himself,  by  an  in- 
credible effort  of  strength  he  succeeded  in  placing  Eduardo 
on  the  back  of  the  horse,  which  had  been  made  restless 
by  the  proceedings  at  its  side.  Then  taking  his  friend's 
sword  in  his  hand  he  seated  himself  at  a  bound  on  the 
crupper  of  the  horse,  clasped  his  arm  around  Eduardo's 
waist,  and  taking  the  reins  from  his  nerveless  grasp  directed 
the  horse  up  the  barranca. 

"We  must  not  go  to  my  house,  Daniel,"  said  Eduardo. 
"We  should  find  it  closed.  I  gave  my  servant  orders  not 
to  sleep  there  to-night." 

*  See  introductory  note.— Trans, 


TREACHERY  15 

"No,  of  course  not;  I  had  no  idea  of  parading  you  at 
this  hour  through  the  Calle  del  Cabildo,  where  there  would 
be  twenty  watchmen  to  throw  the  light  of  their  lanterns 
on  our  persons,  clad  in  the  bloody  livery  of  the  Federals." 

"But  we  must  not  go  to  your  house  either." 

"Still  less,  Eduardo.  I  don't  think  I  have  ever  shown 
any  signs  of  insanity,  and  to  take  you  to  my  house  now 
would  be  nothing  less  than  the  act  of  a  madman." 

"Then  where  shall  we  go?" 

"That  is  my  secret  for  the  present.  But  ask  me  no  more 
questions.     Talk  as  little  as  possible." 

While  he  was  speaking,  Daniel  felt  Eduardo's  head  sink 
heavily  on  his  breast.  A  second  attack  of  vertigo  had 
clouded  the  young  man's  vision  and  had  made  him  feel 
faint;  but  happily  the  faintness  soon  passed  away. 

Daniel  now  slackened  his  horse's  pace  to  a  walk.  When 
he  reached  the  Calle  de  la  Reconquista,  he  turned  into  the 
road  leading  to  Barracas ;  crossed  the  Calle  del  Brasil  and, 
turning  to  the  right,  entered  a  narrow,  unpaved  street, 
without  a  single  house,  but  bordered  on  either  side  by  the 
brick  walls  and  the  nopals  at  the  rear  of  the  houses  with 
which  the  city  terminates  on  the  barrancas  of  Barracas. 

Arriving  at  the  street  leading  from  the  Boca  to  Barracas 
he  turned  again  to  the  right  and  keeping  close  to  the  edge 
of  the  road  at  last  reached  the  Calle  Larga  of  Barracas 
without  having  encountered  a  single  individual  on  the  way. 
Taking  the  right  side  of  the  street  and  keeping  as  close  to 
the  houses  as  possible  he  put  his  horse  to  a  trot,  for  he 
was  anxious  to  get  quickly  out  of  this  street,  which  was 
visited  at  night  by  several  police  patrols. 

After  riding  for  a  few  minutes  longer  he  halted,  looked 
around,  and  having  satisfied  himself  that  there  was  no  one 
within  sight  or  hearing,  he  again  slackened  his  horse's  pace 
to  a  walk,  saying  to  Eduardo ; 


16  ^  AMALIA 

*'You  are  now  secure  from  pursuit  and  you  will  soon 
be  in  a  place  of  safety,  where  your  wounds  can  be  at- 
tended to." 

"Where?"  asked  Eduardo  in  a  faint  voice. 

*'Here,'*  answered  Daniel,  guiding  his  horse  up  a  path- 
way leading  to  a  house  through  whose  latticed  windows, 
shaded  by  thick  white  muslin  curtains,  they  could  perceive 
the  lights  within.  As  he  spoke  he  rode  up  to  one  of  the 
windows  of  the  house,  and  putting  his  hand  between  the 
bars  and  through  the  lattice,  he  tapped  gently  on  the  glass. 
No  one  responded,  however.  He  knocked  a  second  time 
when  a  woman's  voice  asked  in  suspicious  tones: 

"Who  is  there?" 

"I,  Amalia.     I,  your  cousin." 

"Daniel !"  cried  the  same  voice,  the  person  within  draw- 
ing nearer  to  the  window. 

"Yes,  Daniel." 

On  the  instant  the  window  was  opened,  the  blind  was 
raised  and  a  young  woman  dressed  in  black  leaned  forward 
and  rested  her  hand  against  the  grating.  But  on  seeing 
two  men  seated  on  one  horse,  she  drew  back,  as  if  in 
surprise. 

"Don't  you  know  me,  Amalia?  Listen  to  me;  open  the 
street  door  at  once ;  but  do  not  waken  any  of  the  servants ; 
open  it  yourself." 

"But  what  is  the  matter,  Daniel?" 

"Don't  lose  an  instant,  Amalia;  open  the  door  at  once 
while  there  is  no  one  near  to  observe  us.  My  life  is  in 
question — more  than  my  life. —    Do  you  understand  now?" 

"My  God !"  exclaimed  the  young  woman ;  and,  hastily 
closing  the  window,  she  hurried  from  the  room,  went  to 
the  street  door,  which  she  threw  wide  open,  and  going  out 
to  the  path  said  to  Daniel:  "Come  in!"  with  that  sublime 
spontaneity  of  which  only  the  tender  and  generous  soul 


TREACHERY  17 

of  a  woman  Is  capable  when  she  is  performing  some  deed 
of  heroism,  that  is  with  her  always  the  result,  not  of  re- 
flection, but  of  inspiration. 

''Not  yet,"  returned  Daniel,  who  had  by  this  time  dis- 
mounted with  Eduardo,  whom  he  was  supporting  by  the 
waist.  And  thus  supporting  him  and  leading  the  horse  by 
the  bridle,  he  gained  the  door. 

"Take  my  place,  Amalia,"  he  then  said;  "and  support 
this  man,  who  is  unable  to  walk  alone." 

Amalia,  without  a  moment's  hesitation,  took  the  arm  of 
Eduardo,  who,  leaning  against  the  jamb  of  the  door,  was 
making  desperate  efforts  to  move  his  left  leg,  which  seemed 
to  him  of  enormous  weight.  "Thanks,  senorita,  thanks!" 
he  said,  in  a  voice  full  of  grateful  emotion. 

"Are  you,  wounded?"  she  asked. 

"Slightly." 

"My  God!"  cried  Amalia,  who  felt  her  hands  wet  with 
blood. 

While  they  were  exchanging  these  words,  Daniel  led 
the  horse  to  the  middle  of  the  road,  and  turning  his  head 
in  the  direction  of  the  bridge  and  throwing  the  reins  over 
his  neck,  he  gave  the  animal  a  vigorous  blow  on  the  haunch 
with  the  flat  of  Eduardo's  sword,  which  he  still  held  in 
his  hand.  The  horse  did  not  wait  for  a  second  signal  but 
started  off  c^t  a  gallop  in  the  direction  indicated. 

"Now  let  us  go  in,"  said  Daniel,  returning  to  the  house; 
and,  putting  his  arms  around  Eduardo's  waist,  he  lifted 
him  into  the  hall  and  closed  the  street  door.  In  the  same 
manner  he  carried  into  the  salon,  and  laid  on  a  sofa  this 
man  to  whose  rescue  he  had  so  providentially  come  on  this 
bloody  night;  this  man  whose  soul  was  still  resolute  and 
courageous,  but  whose  body  could  not  support  itself  alone 
for  a  single  second. 


CHAPTER  II 

THE   FIRST  DRESSING 

When  Daniel  had  laid  Eduardo  on  the  sofa,  Amalia 
hurried  to  a  small  room  adjoining  the  salon  and  separated 
from  it  by  a  glazed  partition,  took  from  a  black  marble 
table  a  small  alabaster  lamp  by  whose  light  she  had  been 
reading  when  Daniel  knocked  at  the  window,  and  returning 
to  the  salon  set  down  the  lamp  on  a  round  mahogany  table 
on  which  were  some  books  and  a  vase  of  flowers. 

At  this  moment  Amalia  was  excessively  pale,  owing  to 
the  sudden  shock  which  she  had  just  received.  She  had 
pushed  back  her  light  chestnut  curls  behind  her  ears  a 
few  moments  before  and  Eduardo  now  saw  revealed  in  all 
its  loveliness  the  enchanting  countenance  of  a  woman  of 
twenty,  with  a  beautiful  and  noble  forehead  and  expressive 
gray  eyes,  whose  black  dress,  defining  closely  the  contours 
of  an  admirably  moulded  figure,  might  have  seemed  chosen 
to  set  off  to  advantage  the  dazzling  whiteness  of  her  neck 
and  shoulders  if  the  material  of  which  it  was  made  had 
not  shown  it  to  be  the  garb  of  mourning. 

Daniel  approached  the  table  as  Amalia  placed  the  lamp 
upon  it,  and  taking  his  cousin's  hands  in  his  he  said : 

''You  have  often  heard  me  speak,  Amalia,  of  a  young 
man  to  whom  I  am  bound  by  the  ties  of  a  close  and 
fraternal  friendship ;  that  young  man,  Eduardo,  is  the  man 
you  have  just  admitted  to  your  house,  the  man  who  lies 
there  dangerously  wounded.     But  his  wounds  are  official, 

18 


THE  FIRST  DRESSING  19 

they  are  the  work  of  Rosas,  and  he  must  be  kept  in  con- 
cealment until  they  are  cured ;  he  must  be  saved.'* 

''But  what  am  I  to  do,  Daniel?"  asked  Amalia,  in  a 
voice  full  of  emotion,  turning  her  eyes  toward  the  sofa  on 
which  lay  Eduardo,  the  pallor  of  whose  countenance,  con- 
trasting with  the  jet-like  blackness  of  his  eyes  and  of  his 
hair  and  beard,  seemed  like  that  of  death. 

"What  you  are  to  do,  Amalia,  is  one  thing  only.  Do 
you  doubt  that  I  have  always  loved  you  as  a  sister?" 

"Oh,  no,  Daniel;  I  have  never  doubted  that." 

"Well,  then,"  said  the  young  man,  pressing  his  lips  to 
his  cousin's  brow,  "what  you  are  to  do  is  to  obey  me 
in  everything  for  this  one  night ;  to-morrow  you  shall  again 
command  your  house  and  me,  as  always." 

"Act  freely,  give  your  orders.  And  in  truth  I  am  at 
this  moment  incapable  of  a  single  thought,"  said  Amalia, 
whose  naturally  rosy  color  was  now  beginning  to  return. 

"My  first  order  is  that  you  shall  go  yourself,  without 
wakening  any  of  the  servants,  and  bring  me  a  glass  of 
sweetened  wine." 

Amalia,  without  waiting  to  hear  the  end  of  the  sentence, 
hurried  away  to  the  interior  of  the  house. 

Daniel  then  approached  Eduardo,  who  was  beginning  to 
recover  from  the  faintness  caused  by  pain  and  fatigue,  and 
said  to  him: 

"That  is  my  cousin,  the  beautiful  young  widow  of  whom 
I  have  so  often  spoken  to  you,  who  has  been  living  alone 
in  this  village,  since  her  return  from  Tucuman,  four  months 
ago." 

"But  this  is  a  cruel  proceeding,"  said  Eduardo.  "I  shall 
compromise  the  safety  of  that  young  creature." 

"Her  safety?" 

"Yes,  her  safety.     The  chief  of  police  of  Rosas  has  as 


20  AMALIA 

many  agents  in  Buenos  Ayres  as  there  are  men  in  it  sick 
with  fear.  Men  and  women,  masters  and  servants,  all 
endeavor  to  secure  their  own  safety  by  denouncing  others. 
To-morrow  Rosas  will  know  where  I  am  and  that  young 
girl's  fate  will  be  involved  in  mine." 

'That  remains  to  be  seen,"  answered  Daniel,  smoothing 
Eduardo's  disordered  hair.  "I  am  in  my  element  when 
I  am  surrounded  by  difficulties.  And  if,  instead  of  writing 
to  me  to  inform  me  of  your  intended  flight,  you  had  only 
told  me  of  it  this  afternoon,  a  hundred  to  one  you  would 
not  now  have  a  scratch  upon  your  person." 

"But  how  did  you  know  at  what  point  on  the  coast 
I  was  going  to  take  the  boat?" 

"I  will  tell  you  that  later,"  answered  Daniel,  smiling. 

At  this  moment  Amalia  reentered  the  room,  carrying  a 
glass  of  sweetened  Bordeaux  on  a  china  plate. 

*'You  must  drink  this,  Eduardo,"  said  Daniel,  taking  the 
glass  from  the  plate ;  "a.  little  wine  will  help  to  sustain  your 
strength,  until  the  doctor  comes."  And  while  he  supported 
his  friend's  head  and  held  the  wine  to  his  lips,  Amalia 
had  leisure  for  the  first  time  to  look  at  Eduardo,  the  pallor 
of  whose  countenance,  added  to  the  expression  of  suffering 
which  it  wore,  gave  him  an  indescribably  pathetic  and,  at 
the  same  time,  virile  and  noble  air;  and  also  to  observe 
that  both  Eduardo  and  Daniel  presented  a  spectacle  such 
as  her  imagination  had  never  conceived,  covered  as  they 
were  from  head  to  foot  with  clay  and  blood. 

"And  now  tell  me,"  said  Daniel,  taking  the  plate  from 
Amalia's  hands,  "is  old  Pedro  in  the  house?" 

"Yes." 

"Go  and  waken  him,  then,  and  tell  him  to  come  here — 
or  stay;  let  us  do  several  things  at  once  in  order  to  save 
time.    Where  can  I  find  writing  materials?" 


THE  FIRST  DRESSING  21 

"There  in  the  hbrary,"  answered  Amalia,  pointing  to  the 
door  of  the  adjoining  room. 

"Now,  then,  go  and  waken  Pedro,"  said  Daniel,  and 
entering  the  Hbrary  he  took  a  Ught  from  a  corner  stand, 
passed  into  the  next  room,  which  was  his  cousin's  bedroom, 
and  thence  into  a  small  and  elegant  dressing-room  where, 
going  to  the  toilet-table,  he  poured  some  water  into  a  basin, 
and  proceeded  to  wash  his  hands,  spattering  as  he  did  so 
the  china  and  glass  with  the  blood  and  clay  which  covered 
them. 

He  then  returned  to  the  library,  seated  himself  at  a 
small  writing  table  and,  with  an  expression  of  gravity  on 
his  countenance  that  seemed  foreign  to  the  young  man's 
nature,  he  wrote  two  letters,  folded  them,  placed  them  in 
their  respective  envelopes,  and  then  went  back  to  the  salon, 
where  Eduardo  was  answering  an  anxious  inquiry  of 
Amalia  as  to  how  he  felt.  At  this  moment  the  door  of 
the  salon  opened,  and  a  man  of  about  sixty,  tall  and  still 
vigorous,  with  perfectly  white  hair  and  a  mustache  and 
beard  of  the  same  color,  dressed  in  a  jacket  and  trousers 
of  blue  cloth,  entered  the  room,  holding  his  hat  in  his  hand 
and  with  a  respectful  air,  which  changed  to  one  of  surprise 
on  seeing  Daniel  standing  in  the  middle  of  the  apartment 
and  a  man  covered  with  blood  lying  on  the  sofa. 

"I  think,  Pedro,"  said  Daniel,  "that  you  are  not  the  man 
to  be  frightened  at  the  sight  of  blood.  What  you  see 
means  nothing  more  than  that  a  friend  of  mine  has  just 
been  attacked  and  seriously  wounded  by  some  ruffians. 
Come  here.  How  long  did  you  serve  under  my  uncle, 
Colonel  Saenz,  Amalia's  father?" 

"Fourteen  years,  senor,  from  the  time  of  the  battle  of 
Salta  to  that  of  Junin,  in  which  the  Colonel  fell  dead  into 
my  arms.'* 


22  AMALIA 

"For  which  of  the  generals  under  whom  you  served  had 
you  most  affection  and  respect — Belgrano,  San  Martin,  or 
BoHvar?" 

"General  Belgrano,  senor;"  answered  the  old  soldier, 
without  a  moment's  hesitation. 

"Well,  Pedro,  here  you  see  in  Amalia  and  in  me  a 
daughter  and  a  nephew  of  your  colonel,  and  there  you 
see  a  nephew  of  General  Belgrano,  who  at  this  moment 
stands  in  need  of  your  services." 

"Senor,  I  can  give  nothing  more  than  my  life,  and  that 
is  always  at  the  disposal  of  those  in  whose  veins  flows  the 
blood  of  my  general  or  my  colonel.'* 

"I  believe  it,  Pedro ;  but  here  we  have  need,  not  of 
courage  only,  but  of  prudence,  also,  and,  more  than  all, 
of  discretion.'' 

"Very  well,  senor." 

"That  is  all,  Pedro.  I  know  that  you  have  an  honest 
heart,  that  you  are  brave;  and  above  all,  that  you  are  a 
patriot." 

"Yes,  seiior,  an  old  patriot,"  said  the  soldier,  lifting  up 
his  head  proudly. 

"Very  well;  go  now,"  continued  Daniel,  "and  without 
wakening  any  of  the  servants  saddle  one  of  the  carriage 
horses,  take  it  to  the  door  with  as  little  noise  as  possible,  arm 
yourself,  and  return  here." 

The  veteran  saluted  as  if  he  were  in  the  presence  of 
his  general,  and  left  the  room  to  carry  out  the  orders  he 
had  received. 

Five  minutes  later  the  sound  of  a  horse's  hoofs  was  heard 
outside,  followed  by  the  noise  of  the  door  turning  on  its 
hinges;  and  a  moment  afterward  the  veteran  soldier, 
enveloped  in  his  poncho,  reappeared  in  the  salon. 

"Do  you  know  where  Dr.  Alcorta's  house  is,  Pedro?" 


THE  FIRST  DRESSING  23 

"Back  of  San  Juan?" 

"Yes." 

"I  do,  sefior." 

"Go  there,  then;  knock  at  the  door  and  give  this  letter 
to  the  person  who  opens  it,  saying  that  while  the  doctor 
is  dressing  you  will  go  and  attend  to  some  necessary  busi- 
ness outside  and  will  return  for  him.  Then  go  to  my 
house,  knock  softly  at  the  door,  which  my  servant,  who 
will  be  up  waiting  for  me,  will  open  at  once,  and  give  him 
this  letter." 

"Very  well,  sefior." 

"One  thing  more.  It  is  now  a  quarter  to  one,"  continued 
Daniel,  glancing  at  a  clock  that  stood  on  the  mantel  piece; 
"you  can  be  back  here  with  Dr.  Alcorta  by  half  past  one." 

The  soldier  saluted  as  before,  and  left  the  room.  A  few 
moments  later  they  could  hear  the  rapid  galloping  of  a 
horse,  whose  hoofs  striking  against  the  pavement  awoke 
the  echoes  of  the  solitary  Calle  Larga. 

Daniel  motioned  to  his  cousin  to  retire  to  the  adjoining 
room,  and  after  recommending  Eduardo  to  keep  as  quiet 
as  possible  until  the  doctor  should  arrive  he  said  to  him : 

"You  know  the  choice  I  have  made,  and  indeed  whom 
could  I  have  sent  for  who  would  inspire  us  with  greater 
confidence?" 

"But,  good  heavens !  to  compromise  Dr.  Alcorta  in  this 
way!" 

"You  are  sublime  to-night,  my  dear  Eduardo.  Listen 
to  me.  You,  I,  every  one  of  our  friends,  every  man 
of  the  generation  to  which  we  belong  and  who  has  been 
educated  in  the  University  of  Buenos  Ayres  is  a  living, 
breathing,  eloquent  compromise  of  Dr.  Alcorta.  We  are 
his  ideas  in  action;  we  are  the  multiplied  reproduction  of 
his  patriotic  virtue;  of  his  humanitarian  conscience;  of  hi§ 


24  AMALIA 

philosophic  thought.  From  his  professor's  chair  he  has 
kindled  in  our  hearts  an  enthusiasm  for  all  that  is  great — 
for  goodness,  for  liberty,  for  justice.  Our  friends  who  have 
gone  to  join  Lavalle,  who  have  thrown  down  the  white 
glove  to  take  up  the  sword,  are  Dr.  Alcorta.  Frias  is  Dr. 
Alcorta  in  the  army,  Alberdi,  Gutierrez,  Irigoyen  are  Dr. 
Alcorta  in  the  press  of  Montevideo.  You  yourself,  lying 
there  bathed  in  your  blood,  who  have  just  risked  your  life 
to  fly  from  your  country  rather  than  submit  in  it  to  the 
tyranny  that  oppresses  it,  are  nothing  else,  Eduardo,  than 
the  personification  of  the  ideas  of  our  professor  of 
philosophy,  and — But,  bah !  what  nonsense  I  am  talking ! 
There!  there!  Let  us  drop  the  subject.  Rest  for  a  moment 
while  I  go  and  say  a  few  words  to  Amalia." 

So  saying  he  w^ent  into  the  library,  where  he  found 
Amalia  standing  in  a  thoughtful  attitude  beside  the  marble 
table  on  which  her  white  hand  rested.  Leading  her  to  a 
seat  on  the  sofa  and  sitting  down  on  it  beside  her  he  said : 

*'Tell  me,  Amalia,  in  which  of  the  servants  have  you 
entire  confidence?" 

"Pedro,  Teresa,  a  maid  whom  I  brought  with  me  from 
Tucuman,  and  little  Luisa.'* 

"And  who  are  the  others?" 

"The  coachman,  the  cook  and  two  old  negroes  who  take 
care  of  the  villa." 

"The  coachman  and  the  cook  are  white  men?" 

"Yes." 

"Then  you  must  dismiss  them  all  in  the  morning,  as 
soon  as  they  are  up — the  black  because  they  are  black,  the 
white  because  they  are  white." 

"But  do  you  believe •" 

"If  I  do  not  believe,  I  suspect.  Listen,  Amalia;  your 
servants  are  no  doubt  greatly  attached  to  you,  for  you  are 


THE  FIRST  DRESSING  25 

kind,  rich  and  generous.  But  in  the  state  in  which  our 
country  is,  an  order,  a  harsh  word,  an  angry  look  converts 
a  servant  into  a  powerful  and  deadly  enemy.  The  door 
has  been  opened  to  denunciations,  and  on  the  sole  authority 
of  some  wretch  the  fortunes  and  the  lives  of  an  entire 
family  are  placed  under  the  ban  of  the  Mashorca.  In  the 
lower  classes  the  mulattoes  only  are  to  be  trusted.  The 
negroes  have  grown  arrogant ;  the  white  basely  mercenary ; 
but  the  mulattoes,  from  the  tendency  which  every  mixed 
race  has  to  elevate  and  ennoble  itself,  are  almost  all  hostile 
to  Rosas,  because  they  know  that  the  Unitarians  are  the 
educated  and  cultured  class,  whom  they  always  take  as 
their  model." 

''Very  well;  I  will  discharge  them  all  to-morrow." 

"Eduardo's  security,  mine,  your  own,  demand  that  you 
should  do  so.  You  cannot  repent  of  the  hospitality  you 
have  given  to  an  unfortunate  man,  and  yet " 

"Oh,  no,  Daniel,  do  not  speak  of  that!  My  house,  my 
fortune,  all  that  I  have  are  at  your  disposal  and  your 
friend's." 

"You  cannot  repent  of  it,  as  I  said,  but  at  the  sam.e 
time  you  must  take  every  means  possible  to  prevent  your 
goodness,  your  self-abnegation,  from  furnishing  our 
oppressors  with  weapons  to  use  against  you.  For  the  sac- 
rifice you  make  in  discharging  your  servants,  indeed,  you 
will  soon  be  able  to  indemnify  yourself.  Besides,  Eduardo 
will  remain  in  your  house  for  as  long  only  as  the  doctor  may 
think  absolutely  necessary.  He  will  leave  it  in  two  or 
three  days  at  furthest." 

"So  soon !  Oh,  impossible  !  His  wounds  may  be  serious, 
and  to  let  him  rise  from  bed  so  soon  might  cause  his 
death.  I  am  independent;  I  lead  a  solitary  life,  because 
my  nature  inclines  me  to  solitude;  the  few  women  friends 


26  AMALIA 

I  have  visit  me  very  rarely;  and  in  the  left  wing  of  the 
house  we  can  arrange  comfortable  rooms  for  Eduardo 
which  will  be  entirely  separate  from  mine." 

'Thanks,  thanks,  my  Amalia!  But  it  is  possible  that 
it  may  not  be  expedient  for  Eduardo  to  remain  here.  It 
will  depend  on  many  things  which  I  shall  know  to-morrow. 
Now  we  must  go  and  get  the  bed  ready  which  he  is  to 
occupy  after  his  wounds  have  been  dressed." 

"Yes — come  this  way;"  and  Amalia,  taking  a  light,  pre- 
ceded Daniel  into  her  bedroom  and  thence  into  her  dressing- 
room.  Opening  a  door  in  this  room  she  entered  through 
it  another  room,  which  was  that  of  her  little  maid  Luisa, 
who  was  asleep  in  bed,  and  taking  a  key  from  a  table  she 
opened  a  door  leading  into  the  courtyard  which  she  crossed 
with  as  little  noise  as  possible,  and  unlocking  a  door  in  a 
corridor  running  at  right  angles  with  the  corridor  into 
which  Luisa's  room  opened  and  still  holding  the  light  in 
her  hand  and  followed  by  Daniel,  entered  another  bedroom. 

"This  room  has  been  occupied  by  a  relation  of  my  hus- 
band's from  Tucuman,  who  returned  home  three  days  ago. 
It  is  provided  with  everything  that  Eduardo  may  require." 
And  so  saying  Amalia  opened  a  wardrobe  and  taking  from 
it  some  bed-clothes  she  herself  made  the  bed  and  arranged 
the  room,  while  Daniel  occupied  himself  in  examining  care- 
fully the  adjoining  room  and  the  dining-room  beyond  it, 
which  opened  into  the  hall  through  which,  an  hour  before, 
Daniel  had  entered  the  salon,  carrying  Eduardo  in  his  arms. 

"What  does  this  window  look  out  upon?"  he  said  to  his 
cousin,  pointing  to  a  window  in  the  room  which  Eduardo 
was  to  occupy. 

"On  the  corridor  facing  the  street.  You  know  that  the 
inner  part  of  this  house  is  completely  separated  from  the 
servants'  quarters  by  an  iron  railing,  and  when  the  door 


THE  FIRST  DRESSING  2f 

of  this  railing  is  locked  the  servants  can  go  in  and  out  of 
the  house  by  the  street  door  without  passing  through  the 
inner  rooms.  It  was  by  that  door  that  Pedro  left  the 
house/' 

"True;  I  remember;  but — do  you  not  hear  a  noise?" 

"Yes." 

"It  is " 

"It  is  the  sound  of  horses*  hoofs,"  and  Amalia's  heart 
began  to  beat  violently.     "My  God!  who  can  it  be?" 

"It  is  Alcorta  and  Pedro,"  said  Daniel,  who  had  been 
holding  his  face  pressed  close  to  the  window  pane.  "They 
have  stopped  at  the  street  door.  Oh,  the  good,  the  noble, 
the  generous  Alcorta!" 

It  was,  in  fact,  the  veteran  of  the  War  of  Independence, 
accompanied  by  Dr.  Alcorta,  a  man  of  about  thirty-eight 
years  of  age,  who  was  at  the  same  time  a  learned  professor 
of  philosophy  and  a  skillful  surgeon  and  physician. 

Pedro  admitted  the  doctor  through  the  street  door,  led 
the  horses  to  the  stable,  and  then  opened  the  door  of  the 
iron  railing,  of  which  he  had  the  key. 

"Thanks,  senor,"  said  Daniel,  who  had  gone  out  to  the 
courtyard  to  meet  Dr.  Alcorta,  pressing  the  latter's  hand 
warmly. 

"Let  us  go  see  Belgrano,  my  friend,"  said  Alcorta, 
hastening  to  cut  short  Daniel's  expressions  of  gratitude. 

"In  a  moment,"  said  the  latter,  leading  him  to  the  room 
in  which  he  had  left  Amalia,  while  Pedro  followed,  carry- 
ing a  wooden  box  under  his  arm.  "Have  you  brought 
everything  that  you  will  need  for  the  first  dressing,  sefior, 
as  I  requested  you  to  do  in  my  letter?" 

"Yes,  I  think  so,"  answered  Alcorta,  bov/ing  to  Amalia; 
"with  the  exception  of  the  bandages." 


28  AMALIA 

Daniel  glanced  at  Amalia  and  the  latter  left  the  room 
quickly. 

"This  is  the  apartment  which  Eduardo  is  to  occupy.  Do 
you  think  vve  should  bring  him  here  for  the  examination?" 

"That  will  be  necessary,"  answered  Alcorta,  taking  the 
box  of  instruments  from  Pedro's  hands  and  placing  it  on 
a  table. 

"Pedro,"  said  Daniel,  "wait  outside  in  the  courtyard; 
or  rather,  go  and  show  Amalia  how  to  cut  bandages;  you 
ought  to  be  an  expert  at  that.  Now,  seiior,  I  must  tell 
you  what  I  did  not  say  in  my  letter — Eduardo's  wounds 
are  official." 

A  sorrowful  smile  crossed  the  pale,  noble  and 
melancholy  countenance  of  Dr.  Alcorta. 

"Do  you  suppose  that  I  did  not  know  that  already?"  he 
said.  "Let  us  go  see  Belgrano,  Daniel,"  he  repeated  after 
a  moment's  silence. 

And  crossing  the  courtyard  together  they  entered  the 
salon  through  the  door  leading  into  it  from  the  hall. 

At  this  moment  Eduardo  was  apparently  asleep,  although 
it  was  not  sleep,  properly  speaking,  but  rather  the  stupor 
of  exhaustion  that  weighed  down  his  eyelids. 

At  the  noise  made  by  the  opening  of  the  door  the  young 
man  turned  his  head  with  a  painful  effort;  and  seeing 
Alcorta  standing  beside  the  sofa,  he  attempted  to  sit  up. 

"Lie  still,  Belgrano,"  said  Alcorta,  in  affectionate  and 
sympathetic  accents;  "here  there  is  no  one  but  the  phy- 
sician." And  seating  himself  on  the  edge  of  the  sofa  he 
proceeded  to  feel  Eduardo's  pulse. 

"Good!"  he  said  at  last;  "we  will  take  him  now  to  his 
room." 

At  this  moment  Amalia  and  Pedro  entered  the  salon 
through  the  library. 


THE  FIRST  DRESSING  29 

The  young  woman  had  in  her  hands  a  number  of  Hnen 
bandages  which  she  had  just  cut  according  to  the  veteran's 
instructions. 

Alcorta  and  Daniel  now  placed  Eduardo  in  an  armchair 
and  with  Pedro's  assistance  carried  him  to  the  room  as- 
signed him. 

Leaving  Amalia  engaged  in  endeavoring  to  reduce  to 
order  the  confusion  of  her  thoughts  and  sensations  we  will 
accompany  the  doctor  and  Daniel  to  Eduardo's  room. 

After  the  latter  had  been  undressed  with  a  great  deal  of 
difficulty,  for  the  blood  had  caused  the  clothes  to  adhere 
to  his  body,  Alcorta  proceeded  to  examine  his  wounds. 

'This  is  of  no  consequence,"  he  said,  after  sounding  the 
wound  on  the  left  side ;  "the  sword  grazed  the  ribs  without 
penetrating  the  breast.  This  other  is  not  serious  either," 
he  continued,  after  examining  the  wound  on  the  right 
shoulder;  "the  weapon  was  sharp  and  did  not  mangle  the 
flesh.  Now  let  us  see  the  thigh."  But  at  the  first  glance 
which  he  gave  this  wound,  which  was  at  least  ten  inches  in 
length,  an  expression  of  dissatisfaction  stamped  itself  upon 
Dr.  Alcorta's  eloquent  countenance.  For  fully  five  minutes 
he  examined  with  the  greatest  minuteness  the  severed 
muscles  in  the  wound,  which  ran  lengthwise  on  the  thigh. 

"It  is  a  terrible  gash !"  he  said  at  last,  "but  not  a  single 
blood  vessel  of  importance  has  been  severed;  the  flesh, 
however,  has  been  greatly  lacerated."  And  he  at  once 
proceeded  himself  to  wash  the  wounds;  after  which  he 
dressed  them  by  making  use  neither  of  the  simple  cerate 
nor  the  Unt  w^hich  he  had  brought  in  his  box  of  instruments, 
but  only  of  the  bandages. 

At  this  moment  the  sound  of  a  horse's  hoofs  stopping  out- 
side the  street  door  was  heard,  arresting  the  attention  of 


30  AMALIA 

everyone,  with  the  exception  of  Alcorta,  who  went  on 
bandaging  Eduardo's  shoulder  apparently  undisturbed. 

*'Did  you  give  the  letter  to  my  servant  himself?"  asked 
Daniel  turning  to  Pedro. 

*'Yes,  seiior,  to  himself.'* 

"Go  see  who  is  outside,  then.    It  must  be  he." 

A  moment  later  Pedro  returned,  accompanied  by  a  young 
man  of  eighteen  or  twenty,  with  a  fair  complexion,  black 
hair  and  eyes,  and  an  intelligent  and  expressive  counten- 
ance, and  Vv^ho,  notwithstanding  his  boots  and  his  black 
necktie,  was  manifestly  a  legitimate  child  of  the  plains — a 
true  gaucho. 

''Have  you  brought  everything,  Fermin?"  Daniel  asked 
him. 

''You  will  find  everything  here,  senor,"  answered  the 
young  man,  placing  a  large  bundle  of  clothing  on  a  chair. 

Daniel  hastened  to  take  from  the  bundle  the  linen  re- 
quired by  Eduardo  and  to  put  it  on  him,  for  Dr.  Alcorta 
had  now  finished  the  first  dressing.  This  done,  the  doctor 
and  Daniel  lifted  up  the  wounded  man  between  them,  and 
laid  him  gently  on  the  bed. 

Daniel  then  went  into  the  adjoining  room,  accompanied 
by  Pedro  and  Fermin,  and  proceeded  to  wash  himself  and 
to  change  his  clothes  from  head  to  foot,  for  those  which 
Fermin  had  just  brought  him,  without  ceasing  for  an  in- 
stant, as  he  did  so,  to  give  instructions  to  Pedro,  regarding 
the  other  servants,  removing  the  traces  of  blood  from  the 
salon,  burning  the  blood-stained  clothing,  etc. 

Eduardo  meanwhile  informed  Alcorta  in  a  few  words 
of  the  events  that  had  taken  place  three  hours  before,  and 
Alcorta,  with  his  head  leaning  on  his  hand  and  his  elbow 
resting  on  the  pillow  listened  to  the  horrible  details  of 
the  occurrence  in  which  he  foresaw  the  beginning  of  an 


THE  FIRST  DRESSING  31 

.epoch  of  blood  and  crime  that  was  to  bring  mourning  and 
terror  to  unhappy  Buenos  Ayres. 

*'Do  you  think  this  Merlo  knows  who  you  are?"  he  asked 
Eduardo. 

"1  do  not  remember  whether  any  of  my  companions 
addressed  me  by  my  name  before  him  or  not.  But  unless 
they  did,  he  cannot  know  it,  for  Oliden  was  the  only  one 
who  held  any  communicaton  with  him." 

'That  makes  me  a  little  uneasy,"  said  Daniel,  who  had 
heard  the  end  of  Eduardo's  narration ;  "but  we  shall  know 
all  to-morrow." 

"Meantime,  it  is  necessary  that  Belgrano  should  take 
some  rest,"  said  the  doctor.  "I  will  return  at  noon,"  he 
added,  passing  his  hand  over  Eduardo's  forehead,  as  a 
father  might  have  done  with  a  son,  and  pressing  his  left 
hand  in  his  as  he  did  so. 

Then  he  went  out  into  the  courtyard,  accompanied  by 
Daniel. 

"Do  you  think.  Doctor,  that  Eduardo's  life  is  in  any 
danger?"  asked  the  latter. 

"Absolutely  none;  but  his  recovery  may  be  slow." 

Exchanging  these  words,  they  reached  the  salon,  where 
Alcorta  had  left  his  hat  and  where  Amalia  was  awaiting 
them. 

Leaving  the  doctor  to  give  Amalia  the  necessary  in- 
structions with  regard  to  the  patient  Daniel  hurried  back 
to  the  apartment  of  the  latter  to  bid  him  good-bye. 

"I  must  leave  you  now,  Eduardo,"  he  said;  "I  am  going 
to  the  city  with  Dr.  Alcorta.  Pedro  will  remain  here  with 
you,  in  case  you  should  require  anything.  I  shall  not  be 
able  to  return  before  to-morrow  night,  but  I  will  send  my 
servant  to  inquire  for  you.  Will  you  allow  me  to  give 
yours  whatever  instructions  I  may  think  necessary?" 


32  AMALIA 

"Do  all  that  you  wish,  Daniel,  provided  you  do  not  involve 
others  in  my  evil  fortune." 

"Are  we  going  back  to  that?  Let  me  do  as  I  think 
best,  Eduardo.  Have  you  any  special  instructions  to 
give  me  ?" 

"None.    Have  you  made  your  cousin  go  to  bed?" 

"There!  Now  you  are  beginning  to  distress  yourself 
about  my  cousin." 

"Foolish  boy!'*  said  Eduardo,  smiling.  "Go  home  and 
take  care  of  yourself  for  my  sake." 

"Until  to-morrow,  then." 

"Until  to-morrow  1" 

And  the  two  friends  embraced  each  other,  like  two 
brothers. 

Daniel,  motioning  to  Pedro  and  Fermin  who  had  re- 
mained in  a  corner  of  the  apartment,  went  out  into  the 
courtyard,  followed  by  them. 

"Fermin,  take  this  box  of  the  doctor's  and  get  the  horses 
ready.  Pedro,  I  leave  Eduardo  in  my  cousin's  care,  and 
to  you  I  leave  it  to  defend  his  life,  if  it  should  be  necessary. 
It  is  possible  that  Eduardo's  assailants  are  members  of  the 
Sociedad  Popular,  and  it  is  possible  also  that  some  of 
them  may  wish  to  avenge  the  death  of  the  men  slain  by 
him,  if  by  an  evil  chance  they  should  discover  his  place 
of  concealment." 

"That  may  all  be  so,  seiior,  but  no  one  shall  enter  the 
house  of  my  colonel's  daughter  to  assassinate  anyone  with- 
out first  killing  old  Pedro,  and  to  do  that  he  will  have  to 
fight  a  little." 

"Bravo!  That  is  the  sort  of  man  I  like,"  said  Daniel, 
shaking  the  old  soldier's  hand.  "With  a  hundred  like  you 
I  would  answer  for  everything.     Until  to-morrow,  then. 


THE  FIRST  DRESSING  33 

Fasten  the  gate  and  the  street  door  after  we  go  out.  Until 
to-morrow." 

''Until  to-morrow,  sefior." 

Alcorta  was  standing  taking  leave  of  Amalia  when  Daniel 
returned  to  the  salon. 

"Are  we  going  now,  Doctor?"  he  asked. 

"I  am  going;  but  you  ought  to  remain,  Daniel." 

"I  cannot  remain.  Doctor;  I  am  obliged  to  return  to  the 
city,  and  I  will  avail  myself  of  the  opportunity  to  go  with 
you,  if  you  will  permit  me." 

"Very  well,  let  us  go,  then;"  responded  Alcorta. 

"A  moment,  Doctor. —  Amalia,  everything  is  settled.  Fer- 
min  will  come  to-morrow  at  noon  to  inquire  after  Eduardo, 
and  I  will  be  here  at  seven  in  the  evening.  Now  go  to 
bed.  Early  in  the  morning  do  as  I  have  advised  you  and 
fear  nothing." 

"Oh,  I  am  afraid  of  nothing  except  on  your  account  and 
on  your  friend's,"  ansvv^ered  Amalia  with  spirit. 

"I  believe  it,  but  nothing  will  happen." 

"Oh,  Senor  Daniel  Bello  has  a  great  deal  of  influence!" 
said  Alcorta  with  good-humored  irony,  fixing  his  soft  and 
expressive  eyes  on  his  pupil's  countenance,  on  which  shone 
the  light  of  imagination  and  genius. 

"Protege  of  Messrs.  Anchorena,  Counsellor  of  His  Ex- 
cellency the  Minister  Don  Felipe,  and  Corresponding 
Member  of  the  Sociedad  Popular  Restauradora !"  added 
Daniel,  with  such  well- feigned  gravity  that  neither  Amalia 
nor  Dr.  Alcorta  could  help  laughing. 

"You  may  laugh,"  continued  Daniel,  "but  I  will  not 
laugh ;  for  I  know  how  greatly  those  titles  serve  me  to " 

"Come  Daniel,  let  us  be  going,"  interrupted  Alcorta. 

"I  am  ready,  Doctor.    Till  to-morrow,  Amalia,"  and  he 


34  AMALIA 

pressed  a  kiss  on  the  hand  which  his  cousin  extended  to 
him. 

"Good-night,  Doctor,"  said  Amaha,  accompanying  the 
two  men  to  the  hall. 

At  the  door  of  the  villa  Dr.  Alcorta  and  Daniel  found 
Fermin  waiting  for  them  with  the  horses. 

Mounting  in  silence,  master,  pupil  and  servant  rode  at 
a  quick  pace  up  the  dark  and  deserted  Calle  Larga  and, 
entering  the  city  by  the  Barranca  de  Balcarce,  drew  rein 
only  when  they  reached  Dr.  Alcorta's  house  in  the  Calle 
del  Restaurador. 

There  master  and  pupil  took  leave  of  each  other,  after 
exchanging  a  few  whispered  words;  and  Daniel,  followed 
by  Fermin,  crossed  the  market  place,  emerging  at  the  Calle 
de  la  Victoria,  and  then  turned  to  the  left.  After  riding 
a  short  distance  Fermin,  alighting  from  his  horse,  opened 
a  gate  leading  into  the  courtyard  of  a  house,  which  Daniel 
entered  without  dismounting.    The  house  was  his  house. 


CHAPTER  III 


THE    LETTERS 


In  the  courtyard  of  the  house  Daniel  gave  his  horse  to 
Fermin,  teUing  him  not  to  go  to  bed  but  to  wait  up  for 
further  orders. 

Then,  raising  the  latch  of  a  door  opening  on  the  court- 
yard, he  entered  a  large  room  lighted  by  a  bronze  lamp. 
Taking  the  lamp  in  his  hand,  he  passed  into  an  adjoining 
room  whose  walls  were  almost  entirely  lined  with  shelves 
filled  with  books ;  these  rooms  were  the  bedroom  and  study 
of  Daniel  Bello. 

This  young  man  of  twenty-five,  of  medium  height,  with 
a  well-proportioned  figure,  warm  dark  skin,  chestnut  hair 
and  gray  eyes;  a  broad  forehead;  a  slightly  aquiline  nose, 
lips  somewhat  full,  and  white  and  regular  teeth,  was  the 
only  son  of  Don  Antonio  Bello,  a  rich  planter  of  the 
South,  associated  in  business  with  the  Messrs.  Anchorena 
who,  owing  to  their  immense  fortune  and  their  family  and 
political  relations  with  Rosas,  enjoyed  at  this  period  high 
consideration  in  the  Federal  party. 

Don  Antonio  Bello,  although  himself  a  good  Federal,  had 
a  profounder  affection  than  that  which  he  entertained  for 
the  Federation — ^his  love  for  his  son.  His  son  was  his 
pride,  his  idol,  whom  from  a  boy  he  had  trained  for  the 

35 


36  AMALIA' 

profession  of  letters — to  be  a  doctor,*  as  the  good  man 
expressed  it. 

At  the  period  at  which  he  is  introduced  to  the  reader 
Daniel  was  in  the  second  year  of  his  course  of  juris- 
prudence. But  for  reasons  which  will  appear  later  he  had 
some  months  before  ceased  to  attend  the  University. 

He  lived  entirely  alone  in  his  house,  except  on  the  rare 
occasions  when,  as  was  the  case  at  present,  he  had  guests 
from  the  country,  friends  of  his  father. 

Placing  the  lamp  on  a  writing-table,  he  sank  into  an  easy 
chair,  and  throwing  back  his  head  remained  absorbed  in 
thought  for  fully  fifteen  minutes. 

"Yes,"  he  said,  suddenly,  rising  to  his  feet  and  pushing 
back  his  straight  hair  from  his  forehead,  "there  is  nothing 
else  to  do;  in  this  way  I  shall  block  up  every  avenue  to 
them!" 

And  without  haste,  but  apparently  without  the  slightest 
doubt  or  hesitation,  he  seated  himself  at  his  desk,  and  wrote 
the  following  letters,  each  of  which  he  read  over  carefully 
after  he  had  finished  it. 

"May  5,  at  half-past  two  in  the  morning. 

"To-day  I  have  need  of  your  tact,  my  Florencia,  as  I 
always  have  need  of  your  love,  your  caprices,  your  anger 
and  your  forgiveness,  to  be  supremely  happy.  You  have 
sometimes  told  me,  in  your  more  serious  moments,  that 
I  have  educated  your  heart  and  your  head;  let  us  see  now 
how  my  pupil  has  turned  out. 

"I  desire  to  know  what  they  say  at  Dona  Agustina 
Rosas'  and  at  Dofia  Maria  Josefa  Ezcurra's  about  an  event 
which  took  place  last  night  at  the  Bajo  de  la  Residencia; 

*A  title  given  in  South  America  to  lawyers  and  professional  men  in 
general,  as  well  as  to  physicians. — Translator's  note. 


THE  LETTERS  37 

what  names  are  mixed  up  in  it ;  the  particulars  of  it ;  every- 
thing, in  short,  relating  to  this  event. 

"At  two  in  the  afternoon  I  will  be  at  your  house,  where 
I  hope  to  find  you  already  returned  from  your  diplomatic 
mission. 

''Be  on  your  guard  with  Dona  Maria  Josefa;  above  all, 
do  not  betray  before  her  the  slightest  interest  in  knowing 
that  which  you  desire  to  learn,  and  which  you  must  make 
her  reveal  to  you  herself;  in  that  will  consist  your  tact. 

"You  will  have  already  comprehended,  soul  of  my  soul, 
that  this  matter  is  of  very  serious  moment  to  me,  and  your 
displeasure  last  night,  your  girlish  caprices,  should  have  no 
part  in  what  concerns  the  fate  of 

"Daniel." 

"My  poor  Florencia !"  cried  the  young  man  when  he  had 
read  over  this  letter.  "Ah,  but  she  is  as  bright  as  the  day, 
and  no  one  can  penetrate  her  thoughts  when  she  wishes 
to  conceal  them!  Now  for  the  next  letter,"  he  continued; 
"but  for  this  one  it  will  be  necessary  to  put  the  clock 
forward  a  few  hours."    And  he  wrote  as  follows: 

"May  5,  1840,  at  nine  in  the  morning. 
"Sefior  Don  Felipe  Arana,  etc.,  etc. 
"My  distinguished  friend  and  sefior: 

"While  you  pass  sleepless  nights  and  brave  with  the 
courage  and  determination  which  characterize  you  the 
dangers  that  threaten  the  government  on  all  sides,  owing 
to  the  opposition  and  the  intrigues  of  its  enemies,  certain 
functionaries,  who,  although  your  subordinates  yet  wage 
secret  war  against  you,  neglect  the  fulfillment  of  their 
duties. 

"The  police,  for  instance,  are  more  anxious  to  show  their 


38  AMALIA 

independence  of  you  than  vigilant  in  what  should  alone 
concern  them. 

"You  are  aware  that  last  week  more  than  forty  persons 
left  the  country  without  the  slightest  interference  from 
the  police,  notwithstanding  the  abundant  resources  at  their 
command;  and  that  his  Excellency  the  Restorer  learned 
of  the  fact  through  you,  to  whom  I  had  the  honor  of 
communicating  it.  But  it  was  enough  that  you  should 
have  communicated  it  to  his  Excellency  for  Senor  Victorica 
to  refrain  from  taking  any  step  in  the  matter. 

"Last  night  at  about  half-past  ten  as  I  was  returning 
from  the  Boca  to  the  city  by  the  Camino  del  Baio,  I 
observed,  near  Senor  Mandeville's  house,  a  party  of  men 
who  from  their  proximity  to  the  river  I  believe  to  have 
had  the  intention  of  leaving  the  country,  an  intention  which 
they  no  doubt  carried  into  effect.  And  this  is  the  time 
for  you  to  take  your  revenge  on  Senor  Victorica,  com- 
municating this  fact  to  his  Excellency,  who,  I  almost  ven- 
ture to  affirm,  if  he  knows  of  the  occurrence,  does  not 
know  the  names  of  the  fugitives,  which  he  would  be  in 
possession  of  by  this  time  if  the  police  imitated  you  in 
your  activity  and  zeal. 

"I  shall  have  the  honor  of  speaking  to  you  in  person 
on  the  subject  this  afternoon,  when  I  trust  that  the  high 
opinion  which  I  entertain  of  your  ability  and  your  energy 
will  be  confirmed  by  finding  that  you  have  already  ascer- 
tained without  the  assistance  of  the  police,  all  that  occurred 
last  night,  including  details  and  names,  if,  as  I  believe,  I 
am  not  mistaken  in  my  supposition. 

"Meantime,  receive  the  respectful  salutations  of  your 
faithful  and  obedient  servant, 

"Daniel  Bello.'* 


THE  LETTERS  39 

*'Ah,  my  good  Don  Felipe!"  cried  Daniel,  laughing  like 
a  boy,  when  he  had  read  over  this  letter,  "who  could  ever 
have  imagined  that  even  in  jest  anyone  would  extol  your 
energy  and  ability !  But  there  is  no  one  in  the  world  who 
is  entirely  useless  and  you  will  be  of  great  service  to  me 
one  of  these  days.    Now  for  the  next." 

"May  5,  1840. 
"Senor  Colonel  Salomon: 
"Compatriot  and  friend: 

"No  one  knows  better  than  I  that  the  Federation  has 
no  stronger  pillar  than  yourself  and  the  heroic  Restorer 
of  the  Laws  no  more  faithful  and  determined  friend.  And 
it  is  for  this  reason  that  it  vexes  me  to  hear  it  said  by 
certain  persons  whom  I  visit — and  I  think  you  can  guess 
to  whom  I  refer — that  the  Sociedad  Popular,  of  which  you 
are  the  worthy  president,  does  not  aid  the  police  as  efficiently 
as  it  should  in  watching  the  Unitarians,  who  fly  the  country 
every  night  to  join  the  army  of  Lavalle. 

"The  Restorer  must  be  greatly  displeased  by  this ;  and  I, 
as  your  friend,  desire  to  advise  you  to  call  a  meeting  in 
your  house  this  very  day  of  the  best  Federals  of  the  Society, 
as  well  that  you  may  ascertain  from  them  all  that  they 
may  know  with  regard  to  the  persons  who  have  recently 
left  the  country,  as  for  the  purpose  of  taking  measures  to 
pursue  and  punish  those  who  may  attempt  to  leave  the 
country  in  the  future. 

"For  myself,  it  would  give  me  great  pleasure  to  be 
present  at  this  meeting,  and  to  prepare  for  you  a  Federal 
discourse  to  arouse  the  enthusiasm  of  the  defenders  of  the 
Restorer,  as  I  have  done  on  other  occasions,  notwithstand- 
ing that  you  are  very  capable  of  acquitting  yourself  without 
assistance  of  your  obligations,  whenever  our  sacred  cause 


40  AMALIA 

of  the  Federation  and  the  hfe  of  the  Illustrious  Restorer 
of  the  Laws  are  in  question. 

"If  you  should  decide  upon  holding  the  Federal  meeting, 
be  pleased  to  answer  me  before  twelve  o'clock,  and  com- 
mand your  obedient  servant  who  salutes  you  Federally, 

"Daniel  Bello." 

"This  man  will  do  whatever  I  tell  him  to  do,"  said 
Daniel  to  himself,  in  a  tone  of  complete  conviction.  "This 
man  and  all  the  rest  of  his  kind,  would  ruin  Rosas  without 
even  suspecting  it,  if  there  were  only  three  men  like  myself 
to  lead  them — one  in  the  plains,  another  in  the  army,  an- 
other near  the  person  of  Rosas,  and  I  everywhere,  like 
God — or  like  the  devil.  I  have  still  another  letter  to  wTite," 
he  continued,  opening  a  secret  drawer  in  his  desk  and  taking 
from  it  a  paper  filled  with  conventional  signs  which  he 
consulted  continually  as  he  wrote  with  them  the  following : 

"Buenos  Ay  res.  May  5,  1840. 

"Last  night  five  of  our  friends  were  surprised  as  they 
were  about  to  embark.  Lynch,  Riglos,  Oliden  and  Maisson, 
have  fallen  victims — at  least  up  to  this  moment  I  believe 
so;  one  escaped  miraculously.  If  you  should  learn  of  this 
event  through  any  other  channel  mention  no  other  names 
than  those  I  have  written  here." 

And  signing  this  letter  with  a  special  sign  he  wrote  on 
the  envelope: 

"A.  de  G3— Montevideo.'* 

Enclosing  this  in  another  envelope  he  placed  it  under 
his  bronze  inkstand  and  then  pulled  the  bell-rope. 

Fermin  appeared  on  the  instant. 

"Things  are  going  badly,  Fermin,"  said  Daniel,  feigning 
a  certain  air  of  abstraction  and  indifference  as  he  spoke. 


THE  LETTERS  41 

"The  enrollment  is  general,  and  I  shall  have  to  use  my 
influence  again  with  General  Pinedo  to  obtain  your  cer- 
tificate of  exemption — unless  you  wish  to  enter  the  service." 

"And  how  should  I  wish  to  enter  the  service,  senor!" 
said  the  young  man,  with  the  indolent  intonation  pecuUar 
to  the  children  of  the  plains. 

"Especially,"  continued  Daniel,  "as  the  campaign  is  go- 
ing to  be  a  terrible  one.  It  is  probable  that  the  army  will 
have  to  march  through  the  entire  republic,  and  you  are  not 
accustomed  to  such  hardships.  You  were  born  in  my 
father's  house  and  you  have  been  brought  up  with  every 
comfort.  I  think  I  have  never  given  you  any  cause  for 
discontent." 

"Discontent,  seiior;  no  indeed!"  said  Fermin  with  tears 
in  his  eyes. 

"I  have  made  you  my  personal  attendant,  because  I  have 
complete  confidence  in  you.  You  are  the  master  of  my 
servants,  you  spend  as  much  money  as  you  choose;  and 
I  think  I  have  never  found  fault  with  you;  is  not  that 
true?" 

"That  is  true,  seiior." 

"I  never  send  for  a  horse  for  myself  without  asking  my 
father  for  another  for  Fermin;  and  there  are  few  men 
in  Buenos  Ayres  who  might  not  envy  you  the  horses  you 
ride.  So  that  you  would  have  a  great  deal  to  suffer  if  they 
took  you  from  my  side." 

"I  will  not  go  into  the  service,  senor.  I  would  let  my- 
self be  killed  rather  than  leave  you." 

"And  would  you  let  yourself  be  killed  in  my  service  if 
it  were  necessary;  if  I  should  find  myself  at  any  time  in 
danger  ?" 

"Of  course  I  would,  senor!"  answered  Fermin,  in  the 
candid  and  sincere  accents  of  a  youth  of  twenty  who  has 


42  AMALIA 

within  him  that  consciousness  of  his  valor  which  seems 
innate  in  those  who  have  drawn  their  first  breath  of  hfe 
in  the  Pampa. 

"I  believe  it,"  said  Daniel,  "and  if  I  had  not  penetrated 
into  the  recesses  of  your  heart  long  before  this,  I  should 
well  deserve  misfortune,  for  fools  ought  not  to  conspire." 
And  with  these  last  words,  spoken  as  if  to  himself,  Daniel 
took  up  the  three  letters  which  he  had  first  written,  and 
continued:  ''Very  well,  Fermin;  they  will  not  put  you  in 
the  army.  Now  listen  to  what  I  am  going  to  say  to  you: 
To-morrow  morning  at  nine  o'clock  you  will  take  a  bouquet 
of  flowers  to  Florencia  and  when  you  are  giving  it  to  her 
you  will  give  her  this  letter  also.  You  will  then  go  to  the 
house  of  Senor  Don  Felipe  Arana  and  leave  this  letter 
there.  Then  go  to  Colonel  Salomon's  and  deliver  this  other 
letter.  Be  very  careful  to  read  the  address  on  each  letter 
before  delivering  it." 

''Have  no  fear,  senor." 

"One  thing  more." 

"What  is  it,  senor?" 

"On  your  way  back  you  will  pass  by  Marcelina's  house." 

"The  woman  that " 

"The  same,  yes ;  the  woman  that  you  warned,  for  certain 
reasons,  not  to  enter  my  house  in  the  daytime.  You  will 
tell  her,  notwithstanding,  to  come  at  once  to  see  me." 

"Very  well." 

"You  will  be  back  by  ten  and  if  I  am  not  up  then  you 
will  waken  me  yourself." 

"Yes,  senor." 

"Before  you  go  out  give  orders  to  waken  me  if  anyone 
should  desire  to  see  me,  no  matter  who  it  may  be." 

"Very  well,  senor." 


THE  LETTERS  43 

*'One  word  more  and  then  you  may  go  to  bed.  Do  you 
not  guess  what  that  word  is?'' 

*'Yes,  seiior,  I  do,"  answered  Fermin  with  a  look  of 
intelHgence. 

*'I  am  very  glad  that  you  do;  see  that  you  keep  it  in 
mind.  To  deserve  my  confidence  and  my  generosity,  and 
to  avoid  the  disagreeable  consequences  that  any  indiscretion 
on  your  part  might  entail  upon  you,  you  must  either  not 
speak  at  all,  or  else  be  more  than  cautious  about  what 
you  say." 

"Never  fear,  senor." 

**Very  well,  you  may  go  now." 

And  Daniel  closed  the  door  opening  on  the  courtyard, 
at  a  quarter  past  three  in  the  morning,  to  seek  the  rest 
which  he  so  greatly  needed  after  the  superhuman  exertions, 
mental  and  physical,  which  he  had  made  on  this  eventful 
night. 


CHAPTER  IV 

THE   DINNER    HOUR 

While  the  events  which  we  have  related  were  passing, 
on  the  night  of  the  4th  of  May,  others  of  no  less  importance 
were  taking  place  in  a  well-known  house  in  the  Calle  del 
Restaurador.  But  for  their  complete  understanding  it  will 
be  necessary  to  recall  to  the  reader  the  political  situation 
of  the  republic  at  the  period  of  which  we  speak. 

It  was  the  critical  moment  in  the  dictatorship  of  General 
Rosas,  when  he  was  either  to  be  utterly  annihilated,  or  to 
rise  up  stronger  and  more  despotic  than  ever,  according 
as  events  should  determine. 

The  dangers  by  which  Rosas  was  menaced  came  from 
three  sources — the  civil  war,  the  war  in  the  East,  and  the 
French  Question. 

The  insurrection  that  had  broken  out  in  the  South,  six 
months  previous  to  the  time  at  which  our  story  opens,  had 
placed  Rosas  unexpectedly  in  the  greatest  danger  that  had 
ever  threatened  his  political  existence.  But  the  unfortunate 
issue  of  this  spontaneous  insurrection,  without  plan  or 
direction,  had  only  added,  as  happens  in  such  cases,  to  the 
strength  and  the  arrogance  of  the  conqueror  Rosas ;  of  that 
favorite  of  fortune  who  owed  his  power  and  his  success 
to  the  mistakes  of  his  adversaries. 

'Two  severe  blows,  however,  had  shaken  the  edifice  of  his 
power  to  its  foundations — the  defeat  of  his  army  in  the 
Eastern  State  and  the  attack  of  General  Lavalle  on  the 
Province  of  Entre-Rios. 

44 


THE  DINNER  HOUR  45 

By  a  decree  passed  on  the  7th  of  April,  1840,  the  Cham- 
ber of  Representatives  of  Tucuman  had  withdrawn  from 
Rosas  their  recognition  of  him  as  Governor  of  Buenos  Ayres 
and  divested  him  of  the  powers  which  it  had  conferred 
upon  him  as  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs. 

On  the  13th  of  April,  the  people  of  Salta  had  deposed 
Rosas  from  his  office  of  Governor  of  the  Province  and 
elected  another  Governor  provisionally  in  his  stead,  and 
withdrawn  from  him  their  recognition  of  him  as  Governor 
of  Buenos  Ayres. 

La  Rioja,  Catamarca  and  Jujuy  were  about  to  pass 
decrees  similar  to  those  of  Tucuman  and  Salta. 

So  that  of  the  fourteen  provinces  composing  the  Republic 
seven  were  hostile  to  Rosas. 

In  order  to  reinforce  his  army  in  the  Province  of  Entre- 
Rios,  Rosas  had  caused  a  levy  to  be  made  of  the  citizens 
without  distinction  of  age,  rank  or  occupation,  not  known 
to  be  Federals,  who  were  obliged  to  choose  between  march- 
ing to  join  the  army,  like  veteran  soldiers,  or  paying  for 
two,  ten  or  even  as  many  as  forty  substitutes,  remaining 
in  the  meantime  in  the  prisons  or  the  barracks. 

This  first  announcement  of  the  reign  of  terror,  on  the 
one  hand,  and  on  the  other,  the  enthusiasm,  the  patriotic 
fever  which  agitated  the  minds  of  the  youth  of  the  country, 
at  the  nev/s  of  the  victories  gained  by  the  Liberating  Army, 
together  with  the  propaganda  of  the  press  of  Montevideo, 
caused  the  emigration  of  many  distinguished  persons,  who 
escaped  from  the  shores  of  Buenos  Ayres  braving  the 
daggers  of  the  Mashorca. 

The  city  was  deserted.  Those  who  could  not  pay  for 
substitutes  concealed  themselves ;  those  who  had  the  means 
and  the  courage  to  do  so,  emigrated. 

The    French   preparing    for   action   on   the    Plata;   the 


46 '  AMALIA 

Eastern  provinces  of  the  Republic  threatening  an  armed 
invasion;  General  Lavalle  on  the  Parana,  with  the  prestige 
of  two  victories  behind  him;  in  the  north,  Tucuman,  Salta 
and  Jujuy,  in  the  west,  as  far  as  the  slope  of  the  Cordillera, 
Catamarca  and  Rioja  in  arms,  proclaiming  and  supporting 
the  revolution;  the  northern  part  of  the  Province  of  Buenos 
Ayres  ready  to  move  at  the  first  sign  of  aid  that  should 
present  itself ;  the  city,  galled  by  oppression,  sending  across 
the  Plata  emigrants  to  the  opposite  shore — such  were  the 
dangers  by  which  the  dictator  saw  himself  menaced.  The 
whole  political  horizon  was  fast  growing  dark.  And  only 
an  occasional  word  of  consolation  did  he  receive  from 
England,  through  the  mouth  of  the  English  Minister,  Sir 
John  Henry  Mandeville,  in  regard  to  the  French  blockade. 
But  England,  in  spite  of  the  good-will  which  animated  her 
representative  in  Buenos  Ayres,  could  not  refuse  to  recog- 
nize the  right  of  France  to  maintain  the  blockade  in  the 
Plata,  even  though  English  commerce  should  suffer  by  this 
long  interdiction  of  one  of  the  richest  markets  of  South 
America. 

Such  was  the  situation  of  Rosas  on  the  night  on  which 
the  events  which  we  have  just  related  took  place.  And  it 
is  while  these  events  were  taking  place,  that  is  to  say  at 
twelve  o'clock  on  the  night  of  May  4,  1840,  that  we  ask 
the  reader  to  accompany  us  to  a  house  in  the  Calle  del 
Restaurador. 

In  the  hall  of  this  house,  which  was  quite  dark,  two 
gauchos  and  eight  Indians  of  the  Pampa,  wrapped  in  their 
ponchos  and  armed  with  carbines  and  swords  lay  stretched 
on  the  floor,  like  so  many  bull-dogs,  guarding  the  insecurely 
fastened  street  door. 

Beyond  the  hall  was  a  spacious  quadrangular  courtyard, 
without  any  light  save  that  which  came  from  a  half-open 


THE  DINNER  HOUR  47 

door  on  the  left  that  gave  entrance  to  a  room,  in  the  center 
of  v/hich  stood  a  table  on  which  was  a  candlestick  holding 
a  tallow  candle.  In  a  few  common  chairs  were  lounging 
three  men  with  heavy  mustaches  and  a  sinister  expression 
of  countenance,  wearing  ponchos  and  carrying  swords  at 
their  sides. 

On  the  right  of  the  hall  was  a  door  which  opened  into 
a  sort  of  ante-chamber  that  communicated  with  another 
room  of  larger  dimensions,  containing  a  square  table 
covered  with  a  red  baize  cloth,  at  which  four  men  were 
seated ;  several  chairs  ranged  against  the  wall ;  a  saddle  and 
the  trappings  of  a  horse,  lying  in  a  corner.  This  room 
was  lighted  by  two  latticed  windows  which  looked  out  on 
the  street,  and  communicated  by  a  door  in  the  partition 
on  the  left  with  a  bedroom  that  communicated  with  several 
other  rooms  which  opened  on  the  courtyard  to  the  right. 
In  one  of  these  rooms,  which  was  lighted  as  were  all  the 
others  by  tallow  candles,  a  woman  completely  dressed  lay 
asleep  on  a  bed. 

The  eldest  and  the  most  distinguished  in  appearance  of 
the  four  men  seated  at  the  table  in  the  room  to  the  right 
was  a  stout  man  of  some  forty-eight  years  of  age,  with 
fleshy  red  cheeks,  compressed  lips,  a  high  narrow  forehead 
and  small  eyes  with  drooping  lids;  but  on  the  whole  rather 
agreeable  than  repulsive  in  appearance.  He  wore  wide 
trousers  of  black  cloth,  a  raisin  colored  jacket,  a  black 
necktie  and  a  straw  hat,  whose  wide  brim  would  have  con- 
cealed his  countenance  from  view  had  it  not  been  at  this 
moment  pushed  back  from  his  forehead. 

The  other  three  men,  ranging  in  age  from  twenty-five  to 
thirty,  were  plainly  dressed,  and  two  of  them  were  exces- 
sively pale,  and  bore  on  their  faces  traces  of  fatigue  and 
lack  of  sleep. 


48  AMALIA 

The  man  with  the  straw  hat  was  occupied  in  reading 
letters,  a  heap  of  which  lay  before  him  on  the  table,  and 
the  young  men  were  writing. 

Sitting  on  a  chair  in  one  corner  of  the  room,  was  an  old 
man  of  about  seventy  years  of  age,  with  a  lean  and  shriveled 
face,  over  which  fell  the  tangled  locks  of  his  unkempt  gray 
hair,  and  whose  spare  and  slightly  deformed  figure — the 
left  shoulder  being  higher  than  the  right — was  buttoned  in 
a  military  coat  of  scarlet  cloth,  the  gold  fringes  of  whose 
epaulets,  still  more  dilapidated  than  their  wearer,  hung,  the 
one  down  his  breast,  the  other  down  his  back.  A  red  silk 
sash,  worn  and  soiled  like  his  coat,  served  to  attach  to 
his  waist  a  short  sword  that  seemed  to  have  come  down 
from  the  days  of  the  vice-royalty;  and  trousers  of  an  un- 
definable  color  and  muddy  boots  completed  the  costume  of 
this  man  who  gave  signs  of  life  only  by  the  spasmodic 
movements  of  the  head  which  he  made  from  time  to  time 
in  the  desperate  battle  which  he  was  waging  with  sleep. 

In  the  opposite  corner  of  the  room,  behind  the  man  with 
the  straw  hat,  another  man  lay  coiled  up  on  the  floor  like 
a  boa-constrictor.  This  individual  was  a  mulatto,  stout 
and  apparently  short  of  stature,  who  was  wrapped  in  a 
priest's  cloak  and  was  sleeping,  with  his  knees  drawn  up 
to  his  chest,  profoundly  and  peacefully. 

A  sepulchral  silence  reigned  in  the  room.  Suddenly  one 
of  the  clerks  raised  his  head  and  placed  his  pen  on  the 
inkstand. 

''Have  you  finished  ?"  asked  the  man  with  the  straw  hat, 
who  was  no  other  than  Don  Juan  Manuel  Rosas,  the 
Argentine  Dictator. 

"Yes,  your  Excellency." 

"Read,  then." 

The  clerk  read  aloud: 


THE  DINNER  HOUR  49 

"  'Long  live  the  Argentine  Confederation ! 

"  'Death  to  the  Unitarian  savages ! 

"  'Buenos  Ayres,  4th  of  the  month  of  America,  1840. 
Year  31  of  Liberty,  25  of  Independence,  and  11  of  the 
Argentine  Confederation. 

"  'The  General  Aid-de-Camp  of  his  Excellency  to  Colonel 
Don  Antonio  Ramirez,  Commander-in-Chief  of  the  2d. 

"  'The  undersigned  has  been  commanded  by  his  Excel- 
lency, the  Governor  of  the  Province,  our  Illustrious  Re- 
storer of  the  Laws,  Brigadier  Don  Juan  Manuel  de  Rosas, 
to  inform  you  that  his  Excellency  has  ordered  that  for 
the  future  in  stating  in  your  communications  the  number 
of  the  troops  composing  a  division  you  are  to  set  down 
double  the  actual  number,  saying  that  half  are  of  the  line 
and  that  all  are  animated  by  sacred  Federal  enthusiasm. 

"  'All  which  you  are  to  bear  well  in  mind  hereafter. 

"  'God  preserve  your  Excellency  many  years.* " 

"Good,"  said  Rosas,  taking  the  paper  from  the  clerk's 
hand.  "Hey !"  he  cried,  a  moment  afterward,  turning  to- 
ward the  old  man  in  the  red  coat,  who  was  nodding  in 
his  corner  and  who,  starting  to  his  feet  at  the  sound,  as 
if  he  had  received  an  electric  shock,  walked  toward  the 
table,  his  sword  pointing  backward  and  one  epaulet  falling 
over  his  breast,  the  other  over  his  back.  "You  were  asleep, 
you  lazy  old  man,  were  you  not?" 

"Forgive  me,  your  Excellency." 

"Never  mind  the  forgiveness  but  come  sign  this." 

The  old  man,  taking  the  pen  which  Rosas  handed  to 
him,  wrote  at  the  bottom  of  the  document  in  a  tremulous 
hand: 

"Manuel  Corvalan." 

"You  might  very  well  have  learned  to  write  a  better 
hand  than  that  when  you  were  in  Mendoza,"  said  Rosas, 


50  AMALIA 

laughing  at  the  writing  of  Corvalan,  who  stood  motionless 
as  a  statue  beside  the  table  without  answering  a  word. 

"Have  the  abstracts  of  the  communications  from  Monte- 
video been  made?"  continued  Rosas,  turning  to  one  of  the 
clerks. 

"Yes,  your  Excellency." 

"The  information  received  by  the  police  ?" 

"It  has  been  noted  down." 

"At  what  hour  was  the  embarkation  to  have  taken  place 
to-night?" 

"At  ten  o'clock." 

"It  is  a  quarter  past  twelve!"  said  Rosas,  looking  at  his 
watch.  "They  were  probably  afraid.  You  may  all  go  now. 
But  what  the  devil  is  this?"  he  exclaimed,  suddenly,  ob- 
serving the  man  who  was  coiled  up  asleep  in  a  corner  of 
the  room,  wrapped  in  a  cloak.  "Ah !  Father  Vigua !  Wake 
up,  your  Reverence!"  he  cried,  giving  a  vigorous  kick  in 
the  side  to  the  man  whom  he  had  addressed  as  "your 
Reverence,"  who  started  up  with  a  shrill  scream,  entangling 
his  feet  in  the  folds  of  his  cloak.  And  the  clerks  left 
the  room  one  after  another  applauding  with  smiles  the  wit 
of  his  Excellency  the  Governor. 

Rosas  remained  face  to  face  with  a  mulatto  of  short 
stature,  broad  shouldered  and  fat,  with  an  enormous  head, 
a  narrow  flat  forehead,  plump  cheeks  and  a  short  nose, 
and  whose  shapeless  features  expressing  the  extreme  de- 
generation of  human  intelligence  bore  the  stamp  of  im- 
becility. 

This  man,  such  as  we  have  just  described  him,  wore  the 
sacerdotal  garb  and  was  one  of  the  two  buffoons  with 
whom  Rosas  diverted  himself. 

The   poor   mulatto,   stupefied   and   smarting   with   paiHj, 


THE  DINNER  HOUR  51 

rubbed  his  side  while  he  looked  reproachfully  at  his  master, 
who  turned  with  a  laugh  to  General  Corvalan,  saying: 

"What  do  you  think  of  that !  His  Reverence  was  sleep- 
ing while  I  was  working."  PKOPEBTY   OF 

"Very  ill  done,"  respond^  ^h^.a^T^eiearng,  with^the^,    , 
same  immovable  countenance  as  Before.        -''^    --  ---'1^'    v-^^ 

"And  he  is  vexed  because  I  wakened  him." 

"He  struck  me,"  said  the  mulatto,  in  harsh  and  querulous 
accents,  disclosing  to  view  as  he  opened  his  liver-colored 
lips  two  rows  of  small,  sharp  teeth. 

"That  is  nothing,  Father  Vigua;  the  dinner  we  are  going 
to  eat  presently  will  cure  your  Reverence.  How  is  the 
house,  Corvalan?" 

"There  are  eight  men  in  the  hall,  three  adjutants  in  the 
office,  and  fifty  men  in  the  yard." 

"Good;  you  may  go  now  to  the  office." 

"If  the  chief  of  police  should  com.e " 

"Let  him  tell  you  his  business." 

"If " 

"If  the  devil  should  come  let  him  tell  you  his  business," 
interrupted  Rosas  brusquely. 

"Very  well,  your  Excellency." 

"Listen." 

"Seiior?" 

"If  Cuitiiio  comes  let  me  knovv^." 

"Very  well." 

"You  may  go  now —  Will  you  stay  and  dine?" 

"Thanks,  your  Excellency;  I  have  already  supped." 

"So  much  the  better  for  you." 

"Manuela!"  called  Rosas,  when  Corvalan  had  left  the 
room,  passing  into  the  adjoining  apartment  in  which  burned 
a  tallow  candle  whose  soot-clogged  wick  shed  around  a 
dim  and  yellowish  light. 


sq 


52  AMALIA 

"Papa!"  answered  a  voice  from  an  inner  room,  and  a 
moment  later  the  woman  whom  we  saw  lying  asleep  on  a 
bed  made  her  appearance. 

This  woman  was  between  twenty-two  and  twenty-three 
years  of  age,  tall  and  rather  slender,  with  a  graceful  and 
fxnely  moulded  figure  and  a  countenance  that  might  be 
called  beautiful  were  it  not  more  adequately  described  by 
the  word  interesting. 

Her  complexion  was  of  that  dark,  pale  hue  peculiar  to 
persons  of  a  nervous  temperament  who  live  more  in  the 
spirit  than  in  the  body.  Her  forehead,  although  not  broad, 
was  rounded,  and  delicately  modeled,  and  her  dark  chestnut 
hair,  drawn  back  behind  the  ears,  defined  the  outlines  of 
an  intellectual  and  finely  shaped  head.  Her  eyes,  a  shade 
darker  than  her  hair,  were  small  but  animated  and  restless. 
Her  nose  was  straight  and  delicately  chiseled;  her  mouth 
large  but  fresh  and  well-formed;  and,  finally,  a  piquant 
expression  of  countenance  made  her  one  of  those  women 
at  whose  side  men  are  apt  to  forget  prudence  in  passion, 
and  who  fire  at  the  same  time,  the  senses  and  the 
imagination. 

Her  closely-fitting  gown  of  cherry-colored  merino  defined 
the  outlines  of  a  round  and  slender  waist,  leaving  bare 
her  smooth  and  polished  shoulders. 

Such  was  the  woman  who  now  appeared  before  Rosas, 
whose  daughter  she  was  and  who  greeted  her  with  the 
words : 

*'You  were  sleeping  already,  eh?  One  of  these  days 
ril  marry  you  to  Vigua  so  that  you  may  sleep  away 
your  lives  together.     Was  Maria  Josefa  here  to-night?" 

"Yes,  papa;  she  stayed  until  half-past  ten." 

"And  who  else  was  here?" 

"Dona  Pascuala  and  Pascualita." 


THE  DINNER  HOUR  53 

'    "And  the  gringo  did  not  come?" 

"No,  senor.  To-night  he  has  a  small  party  in  his  house 
to  hear  I  don't  know  who  play  the  piano." 

"And  who  are  the  guests  ?" 

"I  think  they  are  all  English." 

"A  pretty  sight  they  will  be  at  this  hour." 

"Do  you  wish  to  dine  now,  papa?" 

"Yes,  tell  them  to  put  the  dinner  on  the  table." 

Manuela  left  the  room  and  in  a  short  time  returned  to 
announce  to  her  father  that  dinner  was  on  the  table. 

It  was  served  in  the  adjoining  room,  and  consisted  of 
a  large  roast  of  beef,  a  roast  duck,  a  pudding,  and  a  dish  of 
preserved  fruit.  For  wines,  tvv^o  bottles  of  Bordeaux  had 
been  placed  before  one  of  the  covers.  An  old  mulatto 
woman  stood  near  ready  to  wait  at  the  table. 

Rosas  called  to  Vigua  who  had  fallen  asleep  again  lean- 
ing against  the  wall  of  his  Excellency's  study,  and  then 
went  and  sat  down  with  his  daughter  to  his  nocturnal 
dinner. 

"Will  you  have  some  roast  beef?"  he  said  to  Manuela, 
cutting  an  enormous  slice  and  putting  it  on  his  plate. 

"No,  papa." 

"Take  some  duck,  then." 

And  while  the  young  girl  cut  a  wing  off  the  fowl  and 
began  to  cut  the  meat  oif  it  and  eat  it  slowly,  rather  to 
pass  the  time  than  anything  else,  her  father  ate  slice  after 
slice  of  meat,  washing  down  each  mouthful  with  copious 
draughts  of  wine. 

"Sit  down,  your  Reverence,"  he  said  to  Vigua,  who  was 
devouring  the  viands  with  his  eyes,  and  who  did  not  wait 
for  a  second  invitation. 

"Help  him,  Manuela." 

Manuela  put  a  rib  of  the  roast  beef  on  a  plate  and  handed 


54  AMALIA 

it  to  the  mulatto  who  looked  at  her  as  he  took  it  with 
an  expression  of  savage  resentment  that  did  not  escape  the 
notice  of  Rosas. 

"What  is  the  matter.  Father  Vigua?  Why  do  you  look 
at  my  daughter  with  that  angry  expression?" 

"She  has  given  me  a  bone,"  answered  the  mulatto,  cram- 
ming an  enormous  piece  of  bread  into  his  mouth  as  he 
spoke. 

"How  is  this !  You  won't  help  the  man  who  is  to  pro- 
nounce the  benediction  over  you  when  you  marry  the 
illustrious  Senor  Gomez  de  Castro,  Portuguese  Hidalgo, 
who  gave  his  Reverence  two  reals  yesterday?  You  have 
done  very  wrong,  Manuela;  get  up  and  kiss  his  hand  to 
make  amends  to  him." 

"Very  well ;  to-morrow  I  will  kiss  his  Reverence's  hand," 
returned  Manuela,  smiling. 

"No,  this  very  instant." 

"What  an  idea,  papa!"  responded  the  young  girl,  half 
angry,  half  smiling,  as  if  in  doubt  as  to  her  father's  real 
intentions. 

"Manuela,  kiss  his  Reverence's  hand." 

"Not  I." 

"Yes,  you  shall." 

"Papa!" 

"Father  Vigua,  get  up  and  kiss  her  on  the  mouth." 

The  mulatto  rose,  tearing  with  his  teeth  a  strip  of  meat 
from  the  rib  which  he  held  in  his  hand,  while  Manuela 
looked  at  him  with  her  eyes  sparkling  with  pride,  mortifica- 
tion and  anger,  eyes  that  would  of  themselves  have  sufficed 
to  fascinate  this  stupid  and  abject  creature,  even  without 
the  encouraging  presence  of  Rosas.  The  mulatto  ap- 
proached the  young  girl  who,  passing  from  the  indignation 
inspired  by  wounded  dignity  to  the  dejection  produced  by 


THE  DINNER  HOUR  65 

the  consciousness  of  her  helplessness,  hid  her  face  in  her 
hands  to  protect  it  from  the  profanation  to  which  her  father 
had  condemned  it.  But  this  frail  and  insufficient  defense 
did  not  extend  as  far  as  her  head  and  the  mulatto,  who 
was  more  desirous  of  eating  than  kissing,  contented  him- 
self with  pressing  his  greasy  lips  on  the  young  girl's  fine 
and  lustrous  hair. 

"What  a  fool  your  Reverence  is!"  cried  Rosas,  bursting 
into  a  laugh.  'That  is  not  the  way  to  kiss  a  woman.  And 
you,  bah!  what  a  prude!  If  he  were  a  handsome  young 
fellow,  I  wager  you  would  be  willing  enough!'*  And  he 
tossed  a  glass  of  wine  down  his  throat,  while  his  daughter, 
crimson  to  the  tips  of  her  ears,  winked  away  the  tears 
which  mortification  caused  to  start  in  her  angry  and 
sparkling  eyes. 

Rosas  meanwhile  continued  to  eat  with  an  appetite  which 
gave  evidence  of  a  vigorous  digestion  and  of  the  perfect 
health  of  this  privileged  organization  in  which  mental  labor 
supplied  the  want  of  the  physical  activity  from  which  he 
was  at  this  time  debarred. 

After  the  roast,  he  ate,  in  turn,  some  of  the  duck,  of 
the  pudding  and  of  the  preserved  fruit,  without  ceasing 
to  converse  with  Vigua,  to  whom  he  threw  a  morsel  from 
time  to  time.  At  last,  turning  to  his  daughter  who  had 
kept  silence  with  her  lips  while  the  conversation  which 
she  held  with  herself  was  plainly  to  be  read  in  her  swiftly 
changing  countenance,  he  said: 

"The  kiss  displeased  you,  did  it?" 

*'You  knew  it  did.  You  seem  to  take  pleasure  in 
humiliating  me  before  the  most  degraded  beings.  What 
difference  does  it  make  that  he  is  a  fool?  Eusebio  is  a 
fool,  too,  yet  through  him  I  was  made  an  object  of  public 
ridicule  because  he  insisted,  as  you  know,  on  embracing  me 


56  AMALIA 

in  the  street  without  anyone  daring  to  prevent  him  because 
he  was  the  Governor's  favorite  fool/'  repHed  Manuela,  with 
a  nervousness  of  intonation  and  an  animation  of  face  and 
voice  that  showed  plainly  the  effort  it  had  cost  her  to 
bear  without  complaining  the  humiliation  which  she  had 
just  endured. 

"Yes,  but  you  know  that  I  ordered  him  to  be  given 
twenty-five  lashes,  and  that  I  shall  keep  him  in  Santos 
Lugares,  until  next  week." 

"And  what  does  that  matter?  Because  he  has  been 
punished  are  people  going  to  forget  the  ridiculous  position 
in  which  that  imbecile  placed  me?  Because  you  ordered 
him  to  be  given  twenty-five  lashes  will  people  cease  to  make 
me,  and  justly,  a  subject  of  gossip  and  ridicule?  I  can 
understand  that  you  should  divert  yourself  with  your  fools ; 
they  are,  it  may  be  said,  the  only  distraction  you  have ;  but 
from  the  liberties  you  allow  them  to  take  with  me  in  your 
presence  they  get  to  think  that  they  are  authorized  to  treat 
me  with  disrespect  wherever  they  meet  me.  I  would  con- 
sent to  their  saying  whatever  they  please  to  me,  but  what 
amusement  can  you  find  in  their  touching  me  and  irrita- 
ting me?" 

"They  are  your  dogs  caressing  you." 

"My  dogs !"  exclaimed  Manuela,  whose  anger  increased 
with  every  word  that  fell  from  her  rosy  lips ;  "dogs  would 
obey  me,  a  dog  would  be  more  useful  to  you  than  that  idiot, 
for  a  dog  would  at  least  guard  your  person  and  defend  you 
if  the  dreadful  occasion  should  arrive  which  everyone  is 
bent  upon  prophesying  to  me ;  in  ambiguous  terms,  indeed, 
but  whose  meaning  I  can  very  clearly  understand." 

Manuela  ceased  speaking  and  a  dark  cloud  overshadowed 
the  brow  of  Rosas  at  his  daughter's  last  words. 


THE  DINNER  HOUH  fft 

"And  who  talks  to  you  in  that  way?"  he  asked  quietly, 
after  a  few  moments'  silence. 

"Everybody,  seiior,"  answered  Manuela,  recovering  her 
habitual  calmness.  "It  seems  as  if  everyone  who  came  to 
this  house  conspired  to  fill  me  with  terror  of  the  dangers 
which  they  say  surround  you." 

"Dangers  of  what  kind?" 

"Oh,  no  one  speaks  to  me,  no  one  would  venture  to 
speak  to  me  of  the  dangers  of  war  or  of  political  dangers 
but  they  all  paint  the  Unitarians  to  me  as  capable  of  at- 
tempting your  life  at  any  moment;  they  all  charge  me  to 
watch  over  you,  not  to  leave  you  alone,  to  see  that  the 
doors  are  securely  fastened;  always  ending  by  offering  me 
their  services  which  perhaps  not  one  of  them  is  loyal 
enough  to  offer  me  with  sincerity;  for  their  civilities  are 
more  a  boast  than  a  mark  of  good  will." 

"Why  do  you  think  so?" 

"Why  do  I  think  so?  Do  you  suppose  that  Garrigos, 
that  Torres,  that  Arana,  that  Garcia,  that  any  of  those 
men  whom  the  desire  of  standing  well  with  you  brings  here 
would  be  capable  of  risking  his  life  for  anyone  in  the 
world?  If  they  are  afraid  of  a  disaster  it  is  not  on  your 
account  but  on  their  own." 

"It  is  possible  that  you  are  right,"  said  Rosas,  quietly, 
twirling  around  on  the  table  the  plate  before  him;  "but 
if  the  Unitarians  do  not  kill  me  this  year  they  will  not 
kill  me  in  any  of  the  years  to  come.  Meantime,  you  have 
changed  the  conversation.  You  were  angry  because  his 
Reverence  wished  to  give  you  a  kiss,  and  I  desire  that 
you  should  make  up  with  Father  Vigua,"  he  continued, 
turning  to  the  mulatto,  who  held  the  preserve  dish  close 
to  his  face  and  was  occupied  in  licking  it  clean.     "Father 


58  AMALIA 

Vigua,  give  an  embrace  and  a  couple  of  kisses  to  my 
daughter  to  content  her.'* 

''No,  papa !"  exclaimed  Manuela  rising  to  her  feet,  in  an 
accent  of  mingled  fear  and  irresolution  difficult  to  describe, 
for  it  was  the  expression  of  the  multitude  of  emotions 
which  at  that  moment  agitated  her  soul,  as  a  woman,  a 
young  girl  and  a  lady  in  the  presence  of  the  repulsive 
looking  object  whose  monstrous  mouth  her  father  wished 
to  bring  in  contact  with  her  delicate  lips,  solely  because 
he  made  it  a  point  never  to  allow  his  will  to  be  thwarted 
by  another's. 

"Kiss  her.  Father." 

"Give  me  a  kiss,"  said  the  mulatto,  turning  to  Manuela. 

"No !"  cried  Manuela,  running  away  from  him. 

"Give  me  a  kiss,"  repeated  the  mulatto. 

"Catch  her.  Father,"  cried  Rosas  to  him. 

"No,  no!"  exclaimed  Manuela  in  a  voice  full  of  in- 
dignation. 

But  in  the  midst  of  the  efforts  to  escape  of  the  daughter, 
the  vociferous  laughter  of  the  father,  and  the  mulatto's 
pursuit  of  his  prey,  this  slim  girl  who,  pale,  mortified,  im- 
potent to  defend  herself  In  any  other  way  than  by  flight, 
succeeded  always  in  eluding  his  grasp,  the  clatter  of  horses* 
hoofs  on  the  stone  pavement  of  the  street  suddenly  arrested 
the  movements  and  the  attention  of  all  three. 


CHAPTER  V 

COMMANDANT  CUITINO 

The  horses  stopped  outside  the  door  and  after  a 
moment's  silence  Rosas  nodded  to  his  daughter,  who  com- 
prehended at  once  that  her  father  desired  her  to  go  and 
see  who  it  was  that  had  just  arrived.  She  left  the  room 
accordingly,  passing  through  the  study  and  smoothing  back 
her  hair  from  her  temples  as  she  went,  as  if  she  sought 
by  this  action  to  put  away  from  her  mind  the  recollection 
of  all  that  had  just  taken  place,  in  order  to  devote  herself 
entirely,  as  was  her  habit,  to  the  care  of  her  father's  person 
and  interests. 

''Who  is  it,  Corvalan  ?"  she  said,  meeting  the  aid-de-camp 
in  the  dark  passage  leading  to  the  courtyard. 

"Commandant  Cuitino,  senorita." 

Manuela,  accompanied  by  Corvalan,  returned  to  the  dining 
room. 

"Commandant  Cuitiiio,"  said  Corvalan,  as  he  entered  the 
room. 

"Who  is  with  him?" 

"An  escort  of  cavalry." 

"That  is  not  what  I  am  asking  you.  Do  you  suppose 
that  I  am  so  deaf  as  not  to  have  heard  the  horses?" 

"He  is  alone,  your  Excellency." 

"Show  him  in." 

Rosas  remained  sitting  at  the  head  of  the  table ;  Manuela 
took  a  seat  at  one  side  of  it,  to  his  right,  with  her  back 
to  the  door  through  which   Corvalan  had  just  left  the 

69 


60  AMALIA 

room ;  Vigua  at  the  foot,  opposite  Rosas ;  and  the  servant, 
placing  another  bottle  of  wine  on  the  table,  at  a  sign  from 
Rosas  withdrew. 

Cuitino's  spurs  were  soon  heard  clanking  on  the  bare 
floor  of  the  study  and  then  of  the  bedroom  of  Rosas  and 
this  celebrated  pillar  of  the  Federation  shortly  afterward 
appeared  at  the  dining  room  door,  carrying  in  his  hand 
his  sombrero  adorned  with  a  red  ribbon  two  inches  in 
width,  the  official  mourning  which  the  Governor  had 
ordered  to  be  worn  for  his  deceased  wife,  and  wearing  a 
blue  cloth  poncho  which  reached  to  the  knees.  His  hair 
fell  in  tangled  locks  over  his  sunburned  countenance  giving 
a  still  more  horrible  expression  to  a  round  and  fleshy  face 
marked  by  all  the  lines  with  which  nature  traces  criminal 
propensities  on  the  human  features. 

"Come  in,  my  friend,"  said  Rosas,  examining  him  with  a 
swift  and  stealthy  glance. 

**Good  evening.     With  your  Excellency's  permission." 
"Come  in.     Manuela,  place  a  chair  for  the  Commandant. 
You  may  go,  Corvalan." 

Manuela  placed  a  chair  at  the  corner  of  the  table,  Cuitino 
thus  remaining  between  Rosas  and  his  daughter. 
"Will  you  have  anything?" 
''Many  thanks,  your  Excellency." 
"Manuela,  give  the  Commandant  some  w^ine." 
As  Manuela  extended  her  hand  to  take  the  bottle,  Cuitino 
stretched  out  his  right  arm  and  turning  the  end  of  his 
poncho  up  over  his  shoulder  took  a  glass  from  the  table  and 
held  it  out  to  Manuela  so  that  she  might  pour  the  wine 
into  it;  but  as  she  looked  at  the  glass  she  started  violently, 
striking  the   bottle   from   which   she  was   about   to   pour 
the  wine  against  it,  and  spilling  part  of  the  liquid  on  the 
table — Cuitifio's  hand  and  arm  wer-e  red  with  blood.    Rosas 


COMMANDANT  CUITINO  61 

observed  this  at  once  and  a  gleam  of  joy  lighted  up  his 
countenance,  habitually  veiled  under  the  eternal  and  mys- 
terious night  of  conscience.  Manuela,  who  had  turned 
deadly  pale,  with  a  mechanical  movement  drew  away  her 
chair  from  Cuitino's  when  she  had  finished  pouring  out 
the  wine. 

"To  the  health  of  your  Excellency  and  of  Dona 
Manuelita!"  said  Cuitino,  with  a  profound  bow,  drinking 
the  wine,  while  Vigua  made  frantic  attempts  to  draw 
Manuelita's  attention  to  the  Commandant's  hand. 

''What  have  you  been  doing?"  asked  Rosas  with  studied 
composure,  fixing  his  eyes  on  the  table-cloth. 

''As  your  Excellency  told  m.e  to  come  back  and  see 
you  after  executing  my  commission " 

"What  commission?" 

"Well,  as  your  Excellency  desired  me " 


"Ah!  yes,  to  take  a  turn  through  the  Bajo.  True;  Merlo 
told  Victorica  some  story  about  some  men  who  were  going 
to  join  the  army  of  the  Unitarian  savage  Lavalle,  and  now 
I  remember  that  I  told  you  to  be  on  the  look-out;  for 
though  Victorica  is  a  good  Federal  it  is  also  true  that 
he  is  a  Galician,  and  at  the  most  critical  moment  he  is  apt 
to  be  found  napping." 

"Just  so." 

"And  you  went  down  to  the  Bajo,  eh?" 

"I  went  there,  after  coming  to  an  understanding  with 
Merlo  about  what  we  were  to  do." 

"And  did  you  find  them?" 

"Yes;  they  went  with  Merlo,  and  at  a  signal  which  he 
gave  me  I  attacked  them." 

"And  did  you  capture  them?" 

"Did  I  capture  them?  Does  not  your  Excellency  re- 
member what  you  told  me  ?" 


m  AMALIA 

"Ah !  true !  As  those  savages  keep  me  with  my  head  hke 
an  oven " 

"Just  so." 

"I  am  tired  of  them  now.  I  don't  know  any  longer  what 
to  do  with  them.  Up  to  this  all  I  have  done  has  been 
to  arrest  them  and  treat  them  as  a  father  treats  his  unruly 
children.  But  they  won't  be  warned;  and  I  have  told 
you  already  that  it  will  be  necessary  for  you  good  Federals 
to  take  charge  of  them;  for  after  all  it  is  you  they  will 
persecute  if  Lavalle  should  triumph." 

"How  could  he  triumph?" 

"You  would  only  be  doing  me  a  service  by  relieving 
me  of  the  command;  I  retain  it  only  because  you  force 
me  to  do  so." 

"Your  Excellency  is  the  Father  of  the  Federation." 

"And  as  I  said,  it  is  your  place  to  help  me.  Do  what- 
ever you  like  with  those  savages,  for  imprisonment  doesn't 
frighten  them.    They  will  shoot  you  all  if  they  triumph!" 

"How  could  they  triumph,  senor?" 

"And  I  have  already  told  you  to  say  the  same  thing, 
as  if  it  came  from  yourself,  to  the  rest  of  our  friends." 

"As  soon  as  we  meet,  your  Excellency." 

"And  were  there  many  of  them?" 

"Five." 

"And  do  you  think  they  will  have  any  inclination  to 
attempt  to  leave  the  country  again  ?" 

"They  have  been  already  taken  in  a  cart  to  the  police 
headquarters,  as  Merlo  told  me  the  Chief  of  Police  had 
directed." 

"That  is  what  they  expose  themselves  to.  I  am  very 
sorry  for  it ;  but  you  are  quite  right ;  all  you  do  is  to 
protect  yourselves,  for  if  they  were  to  triumph  they  would 
shoot  you  all." 


COMMANDANT  CUITINO  63 

*'These  won't,  your  Excellency,"  said  Cuitino,  a  smile 
of  ferocious  joy  crossing  his  repulsive  countenance. 

"Did  you  wound  any  of  them?" 

"Yes,  in  the  throat." 

"And  did  you  see  if  they  had  any  papers  about  them?'* 
asked  Rosas,  whose  countenance,  unable  any  longer  to  keep 
on  the  mask  of  hypocrisy,  shone  with  the  joy  of  gratified 
revenge  now  that  he  had  artfully  drawn  out  the  horrible 
truth  which  it  did  not  suit  him  to  ask  openly. 

"None  of  the  four  had  any  papers,"  answered  Cuitifio. 

"Of  the  four?  Why,  did  you  not  tell  me  there  were  five 
of  them?" 

"Yes,  sefior,  but  one  escaped." 

"Escaped !"  exclaimed  Rosas,  with  swelling  breast,  head 
thrown  back  and  eyes  from  which  flashed  the  magnetic 
rays  of  his  dominating  will,  fascinating,  as  if  by  a  divine — 
or  infernal — power,  the  eyes  and  the  mind  of  the  ruffian 
before  him. 

"Escaped,  your  Excellency,"  he  repeated,  casting  down 
his  eyes,  unable  to  support  for  more  than  an  instant  the 
gaze  of  Rosas. 

"And  what  is  the  name  of  the  man  who  escaped?" 

"I  don't  know,  your  Excellency." 

"Who  knows  then?" 

"Merlo  must  know,  sefior," 

"And  where  is  Merlo  ?" 

"I  have  not  seen  him  since  he  gave  me  the  signal." 

"And  how  did  it  happen  that  the  Unitarian  escaped?" 

"I  don't  know — I  will  tell  your  Excellency.  When  we 
made  the  charge  one  of  them  ran  toward  the  barranca — 
a  number  of  the  soldiers  followed  him — they  dismounted 
to  capture  him;  but  they  say  that  he  had  a  sword  and 
that  he  killed  three  of  them.     Then,  they  say,  someone 


64  AMALIA 

came  to  his  assistance;  this  was  near  the  house  of  the 
English  consul." 

"Of  the  consul?" 

"Down  by  the  Residencia." 

"Yes;  well,  and  then?" 

"Then,  one  of  the  soldiers  came  to  tell  me  of  the  man's 
escape,  and  I  sent  in  every  direction  in  pursuit  of  him; 
but  I  knew  nothing  about  it  at  the  time." 

"And  why  did  you  not  know  about  it?"  asked  Rosas, 
in  a  voice  of  thunder,  compelling  Cuitiiio,  on  whose  coun- 
tenance was  depicted  the  abjectness  of  the  wild  beast  in 
the  presence  of  its  tamer,  to  lower  his  eyes  before  the  fire 
of  his  glance. 

"I  was  despatching  the  others,"  he  answered,  w^ithout 
raising  his  eyes. 

\^igua,  who,  during  this  dialogue  had  been  gradually 
moving  his  chair  farther  and  farther  away  from  the  table, 
as  soon  as  he  heard  the  last  words  moved  it  back  so 
suddenly  that  he  struck  both  the  chair  and  his  head  against 
the  wall.  During  all  this  time  Manuela,  pale  and  trembling, 
had  made  not  the  slightest  movement,  not  even  raising  her 
eyes,  lest  they  should  encounter  Cuitino's  hand  or  her 
father's  terror-striking  glance. 

The  noise  made  by  Vigua's  chair  caused  Rosas  to  turn 
his  head  in  the  direction  whence  it  came,  and  this  tem- 
porary distraction  sufficed  to  give  a  new  turn  to  his 
thoughts  and  a  new  mood  to  his  spirit,  by  nature  variable 
and  capricious. 

"I  have  asked  you  all  this,"  he  said,  regaining  his  former 
composure,  "because  this  Unitarian  must  be  the  man  who 
has  the  communications  for  Lavalle  and  not  because  I  am 
sorry  that  he  was  not  killed." 

"Ah !  if  I  had  only  caught  him !" 


COIVIMANDANT  CUITINO  65 

"If  you  had  only  caught  him!  One  must  be  very  alert 
to  catch  a  Unitarian!  I  wager  you  won't  be  able  to  find 
the  one  who  escaped." 

"1  shall  find  him,  if  I  have  to  go  to  look  for  him  in  the 
depths  of  hell,  begging  your  Excellency's  and  Dona 
Manuela's  pardon." 

"Impossible  that  you  should  find  him !" 

"I  may  find  him,  for  all  that." 

"Yes;  I  wish  you  to  find  me  this  man  because  the  com- 
munications he  carries  must  be  of  importance." 

"Have  no  fear,  your  Excellency;  I  will  find  him;  you 
shall  see  that  he  will  not  escape  me." 

"Manuela,  call  Corvalan." 

"Merlo  must  know  his  name.  If  your  Excellency 
wishes " 

"Go  see  Merlo.     Do  you  require  anything?" 

"For  the  present,  nothing,  sefior.  My  Hfe  is  at  the 
service  of  your  Excellency  and  I  would  sacrifice  it  for 
you  at  any  moment  if  it  should  be  necessary.  You  do 
too  much  for  us  all  in  protecting  us  against  the  Unitarians." 

"Here,  Cuitino,  take  this  for  the  family."  And  Rosas 
took  from  the  pocket  of  his  jacket  a  roll  of  bank-notes 
which  he  handed  to  Cuitino,  who  had  risen  to  his  feet. 

"I  take  them  because  your  Excellency  wishes  m.e  to 
do  so." 

"Serve  the  Federation,  my  friend." 

"I  serve  your  Excellency  because  your  Excellency  is  the 
Federation ;  and  your  daughter  Dona  Manuelita  also." 

"There,  go  look  for  Merlo.  Will  you  take  some  more 
wine  ?" 

"I  have  had  sufficient." 

"Good-bye,  then;"  and  he  held  out  his  hand  to  take 
Cuitiiio's. 


66  AMALIA 

"It  is  dirty,"  said  the  ruffian,  hesitating  to  give  his  blood- 
stained hand  to  Rosas. 

''Give  it  here,  friend;  it  is  Unitarian  blood."  And  as  if 
he  delighted  in  its  contact  Rosas  held  Cuitiiio's  hand  in 
his  for  some  seconds. 

"I  would'  sacrifice  my  Hfe  for  your  Excellency." 

"Good-bye,  Cuitino." 

And  as  the  latter  left  the  room  Rosas  measured  with  a 
keen  and  intelligent  glance  this  human  guillotine  that  moved 
in  obedience  to  his  terrible  will;  this  man  whose  dagger, 
always  raised  to  strike  the  virtuous  and  the  learned,  the 
old  man  and  the  child,  the  warrior  and  the  virgin,  yet 
fell  at  the  Dictator's  feet,  under  the  spell  of  his  magnetic 
glance.  For  the  obscure  and  hireling  myrmidons  whom  this 
man  had  raised  up  from  the  dregs  of  society  to  stifle  with 
their  pestiferous  breath  liberty  and  justice,  virtue  and 
genius,  had  early  acquired  that  habit  of  unreasoning  and 
blind  obedience  which  the  brute  matter  of  humanity  yields 
to  physical  strength  and  to  superior  intellect  when  these 
make  it  their  study  to  flatter  it  on  the  one  hand  and 
dominate  it  on  the  other. 

Diabolical  science,  whose  first  rudiments  are  taught  by 
nature  and  which  the  propensities,  self-interest  and  the 
study  of  mankind  complete  later.  Sole  and  exclusive 
science  of  Rosas,  whose  power  w^as  based  wholly  on  the 
exploitation  of  the  evil  passions  of  men  whom  he  caused  to 
persecute  and  destroy  one  another,  solely  by  stimulating  the 
instincts  and  flattering  the  ambitions  of  the  populace — ^a 
populace  ignorant  because  of  their  station,  revengeful  be- 
cause of  their  blood,  and  passionatg*  because  of  their 
climate. 


CHAPTER  VI 


VICTORICA 


''Good-night,  Dona  Manuelita,"  said  Cuitino  to  Rosas' 
daughter,  meeting  her  at  the  door  of  her  father's  study, 
which  she  was  about  to  enter  accompanied  by  Corvalan, 
as  he  was  leaving  it. 

''Good-night,"  returned  the  young  girl,  drawing  closer 
to  Corvalan's  side,  as  if  she  shrank  from  contact  with  the 
sanguinary  demon  who  was  passing  by  her. 

"Corvalan,"  said  Rosas  to  his  aid-de-camp,  as  the  latter 
entered  the  room  with  Manuela,  "go  and  call  Victorica." 

"He  has  just  arrived  and  he  is  in  the  office.  He  asked 
me  this  moment  if 'he  could  speak  with  your  Excellency." 

"Let  him  come  here." 

"I  will  go  and  call  him." 

"Listen  to  what  I  am  going  to  say  to  you." 

"Sefior?" 

"Mount  your  horse,  ride  to  the  house  of  the  English 
Minister,  ask  for  him  and  tell  him  that  I  desire  to  see  him 
immediately." 

"And  what  if  he  sliould  be  asleep?" 

"Let  him  be  vvakened." 

Corvalan  bowed  and  left  the  room  to  execute  his  com- 
missions, pulling  up  his  red  silk  sash  that  had  slipped 
over  his  abdomen,  dragged  down  by  the  weight  of  his 
sword,  whose  point  was  now  touching  the  ground. 

"How  terribly  afraid  your  Reverence  was  of  Cuitino! 

67 


68  AMALIA 

Come  nearer  to  the  table  and  don't  sit  there  flattening 
yourself  against  the  wall  like  a  spider.  What  was  it  that 
frightened  you?" 

"His  hand,"  answered  Vigua,  drawing  his  chair  closer 
to  the  table,  with  an  air  of  relief  at  finding  himself  free 
from  the  presence  of  Cuitino,  who  had  caused  him  to 
pass  so  uncomfortable  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

"Manuela,*  you  did  not  behave  well,"  said  Rosas,  turning 
to  his  daughter. 

She  was  about  to  answer  when  the  sound  of  footsteps 
outside  the  door  was  heard  and  Rosas,  turning  his  head 
in  that  direction,  said  to  a  man  who  appeared  in  the 
doorway : 

"Come  in,  Victorica." 

Victorica  was  at  this  time  a  little  over  fifty  years  of 
age;  he  was  of  medium  height  and  well-proportioned.  His 
mottled  complexion  was  somewhat  bronzed;  his  black  hair 
was  beginning  to  turn  gray;  his  forehead  was  broad,  but 
protuberant  over  the  heavy  eyebrows;  his  eyes  were  small 
and  dark,  and  his  glance  was  sullen  and  piercing ;  two  deep 
lines  furrowed  his  face  from  the  outer  edge  of  the  nostrils 
to  the  corners  of  the  upper  lip ;  and  a  harsh  and  repulsive 
expression  was  stamped  upon  his  countenance,  in  which 
the  ravages  made  by  violent  passions  were  more  noticeable 
than  those  made  by  time;  and  it  was  said  that  on  that 
countenance  a  smile  was  rarely  to  be  seen.  The  Chief  of 
Police  of  Rosas  was  attired  in  black  trousers,  a  scarlet 
waistcoat  and  a  jacket  of  blue  cloth  trimmed  with  black 
silk  braid,  from  one  of  the  buttonholes  of  wh.ch  hung  a 
Federal  device  twelve  inches  in  length.  From  his  right 
wrist  hung  a  whip  with  a  silver  handle,  and  in  his  left  hand 
he  carried  a  broad-brimmed  hat  with  the  regulation  scarlet 
mourning  band. 


VICTORICA  69 

After  a  bow,  profound  but  without  affectation,  he  seated 
himself  at  Rosas'  invitation  in  the  chair  in  which  Cuitino 
had  been  sitting. 

"Do  you  corne  direct  from  your  office?"  said  Rosas. 

''Direct." 

"Is  there  anything  new?" 

"They  have  brought  in  the  bodies  of  the  men  who  were 
going  to  cross  the  river  to-night ;  that  is  to  say,  three  bodies 
and  a  dying  man." 

"And  he?" 

"Is  dead.  I  thought  he  ought  to  share  the  fate  of  his 
companions." 

"Who  was  he?" 

"Lynch." 

"Have  you  the  names  of  the  others?" 

"Yes,  senor." 

"And  they  are " 

"Besides  Lynch,  the  bodies  have  been  identified  as  those 
of  one  OHden,  of  Juan  Riglos,  and  of  young  Maisson." 

"Papers?" 

"None." 

"Did  you  make  Merlo  sign  the  denunciation?" 

"Yes,  senor,  the  denunciations  are  ahvays  signed,  as  your 
Excellency  has  ordered." 

"Have  you  brought  it  with  you?" 

"Here  it  is,"  answered  the  chief  of  police,  taking  from 
the  outer  pocket  of  his  waistcoat  a  Russia-leather  pocket- 
book  containing  a  number  of  papers,  from  which  he 
selected  one  which  he  spread  out  on  the  table. 

"Read  it,"  said  Rosas. 

"Victorica  read  as  follows: 

"  'Juan  Merlo,  a  native  of  Buenos  Ayres,  by  occupation 
a  butcher,  a  member  of  the  Sociedad  Popular  Restauradora, 


70  AMALIA 

serving  in  the  commissariat  department  and  absent  from 
duty  on  temporary  leave  through  the  recommendation  of 
his  Excellency,  the  Illustrious  Restorer  of  the  Laws,  ap- 
peared before  the  Chief  of  Police  on  the  afternoon  of 
the  2nd  of  the  current  month  and  declared:  That  having 
learned  from  a  servant  maid  of  the  Unitarian  savage 
Oliden,  with  whom  he  is  intimately  acquainted,  that  the 
latter  was  preparing  to  fly  to  Montevideo  he  presented  him- 
self on  the  following  morning  at  the  house  of  the  afore- 
said Unitarian  savage  Oliden,  whom  he  had  known  for 
many  years,  saying  that  he  had  come  to  ask  him  for  a  loan 
of  five  hundred  dollars,  as  he  desired  to  desert  and  cross 
over  to  Montevideo,  but  that  he  could  not  do  so  without 
that  amount  to  pay  for  his  passage  in  the  boat  of  an 
acquaintance  of  his  who  did  a  business  in  taking  emigrants 
across  the  river.  That  thereupon  Oliden  questioned  him 
closely  and  finally  convincing  himself  that  the  deponent 
really  desired  to  fly  the  country,  told  him  that  he  himself 
and  four  of  his  friends  also  desired  to  emigrate,  but  that 
they  knew  none  of  the  owners  of  the  boats  which  carried 
emigrants ;  that  the  deponent  then  offered  to  make  arrange- 
ments for  the  flight  of  all,  in  consideration  of  the  sum 
of  eight  thousand  dollars,  to  which  the  other  at  once  agreed; 
that  he  pretended  to  make  many  journeys  back  and  forth 
for  this  purpose,  finally  fixing  ten  o'clock  on  the  night 
of  the  4th  as  the  time  for  their  departure,  it  being  agreed 
that  he  was  to  go  to  Oliden's  at  six  o'clock  on  the  evening 
of  the  said  4th  to  learn  from  him  the  place  or  the  house 
at  which  they  were  all  to  meet  at  the  hour  mentioned. 
All  which  he  made  known  to  the  police  in  order  that  they 
might  communicate  it  to  his  Excellency,  in  faithful  fulfill- 
ment of  his  duty  as  a  defender  of  the  sacred  cause  of  the 
Federation;  adding  that  throughout  the  whole  of  this  affair 


VICTORICA  71 

he  had  taken  care  to  consult  with  Don  Juancito  Rosas, 
his  Excellency's  son,  and  to  act  in  accordance  with  his 
advice. 

"  'Signed  in  Buenos  Ayres  on  May  3,  1840. 

"  7UAN  MeRLO/  " 

"It  was  in  virtue  of  this  declaration  that  I  received 
from  your  Excellency  last  night  the  orders  which  I  gave 
Merlo  to  put  himself  in  communication  with  Commandant 
Cuitino." 

"When  did  you  next  see  Merlo?" 

"This  morning  at  eight  o'clock." 

"And  did  he  tell  you  if  he  knew  the  names  of  any  of 
Oliden's  companions?" 

"Up  to  this  morning  he  had  not  learned  the  name  of 
any  of  them." 

"And  was  there  anything  of  special  importance  in  to- 
night's occurrence?" 

"One  of  the  Unitarians  escaped,  according  to  what  I  have 
been  told  by  the  men  who  escorted  the  cart." 

"Yes,  senor,  one  of  them  escaped  and  he  must  be  found." 

"I  hope  that  we  shall  find  him,  your  Excellency." 

"Yes,  senor,  he  must  be  found ;  for  once  the  government 
lays  its  hand  upon  a  Unitarian  the  Unitarian  must  not  have 
it  in  his  power  to  say  that  the  hand  of  the  government 
cannot  hold  what  it  has  caught.  In  such  cases  the  number 
of  men  matters  little ;  a  single  man  who  defies  my  Govern- 
ment does  it  as  much  harm  as  two  hundred  or  two  thou- 
sand would." 

"Your  Excellency  is  quite  right." 

"Of  course  I  am  right.  Besides,  according  to  the  ac- 
count I  have  received  the  Unitarian  who  escaped  resisted; 
more  than  that,  he  was  aided  by  someone;  neither  of  these 


72  AMALIA 

things  should  happvcn;  I  will  not  have  them  happen.  Do 
you  know  why  the  country  has  always  been  in  a  state  of 
anarchy?  Because  everyone  has  drawn  his  sword  to  fight 
against  the  government  the  day  he  has  taken  it  into  his 
head  to  do  so.  Woe  to  you  and  woe  to  all  the  Federals 
if  I  should  give  the  Unitarians  the  chance  to  fight  against 
you,  when  you  are  carrying  out  my  orders." 

'*It  is  a  new  case!"  said  Victorica,  who  in  reality  w^as 
well  aware  of  the  truth  of  Rosas'  observations  regarding 
the  future  importance  of  the  event  which  had  taken  place 
that  night. 

"It  is  new,  and  it  is  for  that  reason  that  it  is  necessary 
to  pay  attention  to  it;  for  in  the  present  state  of  things 
I  will  have  no  innovations  but  my  own.  It  is  new  but 
before  long  it  might  become  old  if  it  were  not  promptly 
made  an  example  of." 

"But  Merlo  was  to  have  gone  with  them  and  he  must 
know  the  name  of  the  man  who  escaped." 

"That  remains  to  be  seen." 

"I  will  send  for  him  at  once." 

"It  is  not  necessary.    He  has  been  sent  for  already." 

"Very  well,  sefior." 

"Someone  else  has  taken  charge  of  Merlo  and  you  will 
learn  to-morrow  whether  he  knows  the  name  which  I  desire 
to  know  or  not.  In  either  case  you  will  take  the  necessary 
measures." 

"Without  loss  of  time." 

"Let  us  see;  if  Merlo  does  not  know  the  name  what 
will  you  do  then?" 

"I  ?" 

"Yes,  you,  my  Chief  of  Police." 

"I  will  give  orders  to  the  commissaries  and  to  the  prin- 


VICTORICA  73 

cipal  agents  of  the  secret  police  to  direct  their  subordinates 
to  search  for  a  man  who " 

"To  search  for  a  man  who  is  a  Unitarian  in  Buenos 
Ayres !"  said  Rosas,  interrupting  Vlctorica  with  a  sardonic 
and  contemptuous  smile  which  covered  the  poor  man  with 
confusion,  for  he  had  fancied  he  was  unfolding  a  plan 
w^orthy  of  the  Inquisition  in  search  of  a  heretic. 

"And  you  would  have  your  trouble  for  your  pains," 
continued  Rosas.  "Don't  you  know  yet  how  many  Uni- 
tarians there  are  in  Buenos  Ayres?" 

"There  must  be " 

"Enough  to  hang  you  and  every  other  Federal  if  I  were 
not  here  to  labor  for  you  all,  acting  the  part  even  of 
chief  of  police." 

"Sefior,  I  do  all  I  can  for  your  Excellency." 

"You  do  all  you  can,  perhaps,  but  you  do  not  do  all 
that  it  is  necessary  for  you  to  do;  and  if  you  doubt  the 
truth  of  what  I  say  see  the  proof  of  it  in  this  case:  You 
want  to  search  the  city  for  a  Unitarian;  to  look  for  a 
grain  of  wheat  in  a  bushel  of  chaff,  while  you  have  in 
your  pocket,  if  not  the  name  of  the  Unitarian,  the  shortest 
way  to  its  discovery." 

"I!"  exclaimed  Victorica,  growing  every  moment  more 
disturbed,  but  by  a  strong  effort  of  self-control  maintaining 
a  serene  countenance. 

"Yes,   you,   senor." 

"I  assure  your  Excellency  that  I  do  not  understand  you." 

"And  that  is  why  I  complain — because  I  have  to  teach 
you  everything.  From  whom  did  Merlo  learn  of  the  con- 
templated flight  of  the  Unitarian  savage  OUden?" 

"From  a  servant-maid." 

"In  what  family  was  that  negress,  mulatto  v/oman,  or 
whatever  else  she  may  be,  at  service?" 


74  AMALIA 

"In  the  family  of  Oliden,  according  to  the  declaration." 

*Mn  the  family  of  the  Unitarian  savage  Oliden,  Senor 
Don  Bernardo  Victorica." 

'Tardon  me,  your  Excellency." 

"With  whom  was  the  man  who  escaped  going  to 
embark  ?" 

"With  the  Unitarian  savage  Oliden,  and  the  other  savages 
who  accompanied  him." 

"And  do  you  suppose  that  Oliden  went  out  into  the 
street  to  gather  together  the  first  savages  he  chanced  to 
meet  to  embark  with  them?" 

"No,  your  Excellency." 

"Those  savages  then  were  friends  of  Oliden?" 

"Naturally,"  said  Victorica,  who  began  to  understand  the 
point  to  which  Rosas  was  coming. 

"If  they  were  friends  of  his  then  they  must  have  visited 
him?" 

"Undoubtedly." 

"And  the  servant  who  denounced  Oliden  must  know 
who  the  persons  were  who  visited  him  with  most 
frequency." 

"Assuredly." 

"What  persons  were  with  him  to-day,  yesterday,  and  the 
day  before  yesterday?" 

"Just  so ;  she  must  know  it." 

"Such  and  such  persons  were  with  him ;  Maisson,  Lynch 
and  Riglos  are  dead;  search  among  his  other  visitors,  and 
if  you  don't  find  what  you  are  looking  for  in  that  way, 
don't  lose  your  time  searching  any  further." 

"Your  Excellency's  genius  is  unparallelled ;  I  will  do 
exactly  as  your  Excellency  has  indicated  to  me." 

"It  would  be  better  if  you  had  done  it  without  requiring 
it  to  be  indicated  to  you.     It  is  because  I  have  no  one  to 


VICTORICA  75 

aid  me  that  I  have  to  do  the  work  of  all  of  you,"  answered 
Rosas. 

Victorica  cast  down  his  eyes,  transfixed  by  the  imperious 
and  at  that  moment  contemptuous  glance  of  Rosas,  as  by 
a  fiery  arrow. 

*'You  know,  then,  what  you  have  to  do?" 

"Yes,  your  Excellency.  Has  your  Excellency  any  further 
orders  to  give  me  to-night?'* 

"None;  you  may  retire." 

"To-morrow  I  will  carry  out  your  Excellency's  orders 
with  regard  to  the  servant." 

"I  have  given  you  no  orders;  I  have  taught  you  what 
you  did  not  know." 

"I  thank  your  Excellency." 

"There  is  no  occasion." 

And  Victorica,  bowing  profoundly  to  father  and 
daughter,  left  the  room,  after  paying,  like  all  who  entered 
it,  his  due  tribute  of  humiliation,  fear  and  servihty;  un- 
certain whether  he  left  Rosas  pleased  or  displeased — a 
wearing  and  terrible  uncertainty  in  which  the  Dictator,  on 
principle,  constantly  kept  the  minds  of  those  who  served 
him;  for  fear  might  repel  them  and  too  much  confidence 
might  make  them  arrogant. 

A  long  period  of  silence  followed  the  departure  of  the 
Chief  of  Police;  for  while  Rosas  and  his  daughter  remained 
silent,  awake,  each  absorbed  in  thoughts  of  a  very  different 
nature,  Vigua,  who  had  eaten  to  repletion,  remained  silent 
wrapped  in  profound  sleep,  his  folded  arms  resting  on  the 
table  and  his  head  buried  in  them. 

"Go  to  bed,"  said  Rosas  at  last  to  his  daughter. 

"I  am  not  sleepy,  senor." 

"No  matter;  it  is  late." 

"But  you  will  be  left  alone.*' 


76  AMALIA 

"I  am  never  alone.  Mandeville  Is  coming,  and  I  do  not 
wish  him  to  waste  time  paying  you  compliments.     Go." 

"Very  well,  papa;  call  me  if  you  should  require  any- 
thing." 

And  Manuela,  approaching  her  father,  kissed  him  on  the 
forehead,  and  taking  a  candle  from  the  table,  she  returned 
to  the  interior  of  the  house. 

Rosas  then  stood  up  and  clasping  his  hands  behind  his 
back  began  to  walk  up  and  down  the  room  from  the  door 
which  led  into  his  bedroom  to  that  through  which  Manuela 
had  gone  out. 

Ten  minutes,  during  which  Rosas  seemed  absorbed  in 
thought,  passed  in  this  way,  when  the  noise  of  horses* 
hoofs  approaching  the  house  was  heard.  Rosas  paused 
to  listen  just  beside  Vigua's  chair,  and  when  he  perceived 
that  the  horses  had  stopped  at  the  street  door  he  brought 
down  his  open  palm  so  heavily  upon  the  neck  of  the 
mulatto  that  if  the  forehead  of  the  latter  had  at  the  time 
been  resting  not  on  his  fleshy  arms  but  on  the  table  his 
nose  would  have  infallibly  been  broken. 

"Ay!"  exclaimed  the  poor  wretch,  starting  to  his  feet 
in  terror. 

''There  is  no  need  to  be  alanned;  wake  up,  your 
Reverence,  for  someone  is  coming,  and  listen  to  what  I  am 
going  to  say.  Take  care  that  you  don't  fall  asleep  again; 
sit  down  beside  the  man  who  is  about  to  enter  the  room 
and  when  he  rises  to  go  give  him  an  embrace." 

The  mulatto  looked  for  a  moment  at  Rosas  and  then 
nodded  in  assent,  with  unmistakable  signs  of  repugnance. 

Rosas  resumed  his  seat  at  the  table  just  as  Corvalan 
entered  the  room. 


CHAPTER  VII 

y 

SIR  JOHN    HENRY   MANDEVILLE 

"Did  the  Englishman  come  with  you?"  said  Rosas  to 
his  aid-de-camp,  as  the  latter  entered  the  room. 

"He  is  outside,  your  Excellency." 

"What  was  he  doing  when  you  arrived?" 

"He  was  going  to  bed." 

"Was  the  gringo  surprised?" 

"I  think  so." 

"I  think  so!  What  the  devil  are  your  eyes  for?  Did 
he  ask  you  anything?" 

"Nothing.  As  soon  as  he  heard  your  Excellency's  mes- 
sage he  ordered  his  horse  to  be  saddled." 

"Let  him  come  in." 

The  personage  whose  acquaintance  the  reader  is  now 
about  to  make  was  one  of  those  men  who,  so  far  as 
English  statecraft  is  concerned,  are  to  be  met  with  fre- 
quently among  British  diplomatists  in  every  country,  but 
who,  in  respect  to  forgetfulness  of  his  official  position  and 
of  his  dignity  as  a  man,  could  be  found  only  in  a  country 
whose  government  resembled  that  of  Rosas;  and,  as  there 
could  be  only  one  such  country,  it  may  consequently  be 
said,  who  are  to  be  found  only  in  Buenos  Ayres. 

Sir  John  Henry  Mandeville,  the  English  Minister 
Plenipotentiary  to  the  Argentine  Government,  had  obtained 
from  Rosas  what  the  latter  had  refused  to  his  predecessor, 
Mr.  Hamilton;  that  is,  the  conclusion  of  a  treaty  regard- 

77 


78  AMALIA 

ing  the  abolition  of  the  slave-trade.  And  from  this 
triumph  over  Mr.  Hamilton  it  was  that  the  English 
Minister's  personal  sympathy  for  Rosas  first  sprang.  He 
could  not  fail  to  perceive,  however,  that  what  had  really 
impelled  the  Dictator  to  conclude  the  treaty  of  the  24th  of 
May,  1839,  was  the  necessity  of  seeking  in  the  friendship 
and  protection  of  Her  Britannic  Majesty's  Government  a 
support  which  had  become  necessary  to  him  since  the  23d 
of  September,  1838.  But  whatever  its  causes  this  treaty 
was  a  triumph  for  the  minister  which  he  owed  to  Rosas. 

But  men  like  Rosas  neither  desire  friends  nor  are  they 
the  friends  of  any  man;  for  them  humanity  is  divided  into 
enemies  and  slaves.  In  Sir  John  Henry  Mandeville  he  saw 
only  his  chief  chcval  de  hataille  in  the  French  Question; 
and  regard  for  historic  truth  compels  us  to  say  that  if 
Rosas  did  not  profit  by  his  services  as  much  as  he  had 
expected  to  do  it  was  not  through  any  fault  of  the  minister's 
but  only  because  of  the  nature  of  the  question,  which  did 
not  admit  of  the  Cabinet  of  St.  James  acting  in  accordance 
with  the  insinuations  of  their  Minister  in  Buenos  Ayres, 
notwithstanding  his  communications  regarding  the  pre- 
ponderance which  France  was  acquiring  in  the  Plata  and 
the  injury  which  resulted  to  English  commerce  from  the 
closing  of  the  ports  of  the  Republic  by  the  French  blockade. 

The  attention  of  all  Europe  was  fixed  upon  a  question 
then  pending  which  affected  the  balance  of  power  among 
her  great  nations;  this  was  the  Eastern  Question.  Russia, 
Prussia,  Austria,  England  and  France  were  all  interested 
in  this  Question,  their  most  sanguine  expectations,  however, 
being  limited  to  the  maintenance  of  the  peace  of  Europe. 

This  Question  was  simply  a  hereditary  quarrel  between 
the  Sultan  and  the  Pacha  of  Egypt. 

France  insisted  that  the  demands  of  Mehemet-Ali  should 


SIR  JOHN  HENRY  MANDEVILLE  79 

be  acceded  to,  while  England  opposed  this  view,  consenting 
only  that  Syria,  as  far  as  Mount  Carmel,  should  be  added 
to  the  pachalik  of  Egypt.  But  Russia,  meantime,  declared 
herself  the  natural  protector  of  Constantinople  against  any 
enemy  who  might  advance  upon  her  through  Asia  Minor. 
Let  France  and  England  unite  against  Mehemet-Ali  and 
leave  Russia  to  protect  Constantinople,  said  the  Emperor. 
But  England,  whose  Cabinet  was  directed  by  Lord  Palmers- 
ton,  had  sufficient  political  perspicacity  to  comprehend  all 
the  danger  she  ran  in  allowing  the  Tulip  of  the  Bosphorus 
to  remain  under  the  paw  of  the  Bear  of  the  North.  And 
veiling  under  the  flowery  phrases  of  the  most  refined 
diplomacy  his  rejection  of  the  propositions  of  the  Cabinet 
of  St.  Petersburg,  Lord  Palmerston  endeavored,  and  with 
success,  to  convince  it  that  the  protection  which  Constan- 
tinople required  should  be  given  her  by  means  of  a  Russian 
squadron  in  the  Bosphorus  and  an  Anglo-French  squadron 
in  the  Dardanelles. 

The  state  of  the  Eastern  Question,  then,  at  the  beginning 
of  the  year  1840,  was  the  following:  Russia,  England, 
Austria,  and  Prussia  were  agreed  that  Mehemet-Ali  should 
be  confined  to  his  hereditary  possession  of  Egypt;  but 
France  refused  to  consent  to  this  solution  of  the  question. 
All  the  powers,  however,  had  agreed  to  unite  in  protecting 
Constantinople,  without  ceasing  to  watch  one  another,  with 
that  mistrust  which  is  a  charactertistic  of  the  international 
politics  of  Europe. 

In  such  a  state  of  things  it  is  easy  to  comprehend  that 
England  was  not  disposed  to  give  a  great  deal  of  attention 
to  her  markets  of  the  Plata  while  she  was  obliged,  through 
fear  of  Russia,  to  draw  closer  her  alliance  with  France 
in  presence  of  the  gravest  question  of  the  times. 

Sir  John  Henry  Mandeville,  however,  was  not  for  this 


80  AMALIA 

reason  discouraged.  And  strongly  favoring  the  personal 
interests  of  Rosas,  he  labored  as  much  as  it  was  possible 
for  one  in  his  position  to  do,  to  give  a  contrary  direction 
to  affairs  in  the  Plata. 

Rosas  had  absolute  confidence  in  him;  that  is  to  sa}^ 
he  knew  that  the  British  Minister,  like  everyone  else  in 
the  country,  suffered  from  the  malady  of  fear,  and  he 
relied  upon  his  intelligence  whenever  he  needed  to  concoct 
a  political  intrigue,  as  he  relied  upon  the  dagger  of  his 
Mashorqueros  whenever  a  victim  was  to  be  sacrificed  to 
his  system. 

Such  was  the  personage  who,  after  passing  through  the 
study  and  the  bedroom  of  Rosas  now  entered  the  dining- 
room,  vv'here  the  latter  was  waiting  for  him.  He  was 
dressed  entirely  in  black  and  seemed  to  be  about  sixty 
years  of  age.  He  was  below  rather  than  above  the  medium 
height;  had  a  high,  bald  forehead;  a  distinguished  cast  of 
countenance;  a  fair  complexion  and  blue  eyes,  small  but 
shrewd  and  piercing,  which  were  at  this  mom.ent  somewhat 
bloodshot,  as  his  face  was  somewhat  flushed.  And  this 
was  natural,  for  it  was  past  three  o'clock  in  the  morning, 
too  late  an  hour  for  a  man  of  his  age,  who  had  just  been 
heating  himself,  with  some  of  his  friends  over  a  steaming 
punch-bowl,  to  be  out  of  his  own  house. 

''Come  in,  Senor  Mandeville,"  said  Rosas,  rising  from 
his  chair,  but  without  advancing  a  single  step  to  meet  the 
English  Minister  as  the  latter  entered  the  dining-room. 

"I  have  the  honor  to  place  myself  at  your  Excellency's 
orders,''  said  the  Minister,  bowing  gracefully  and  un- 
affectedly, and  advancing  toward  Rosas  with  outstretched 
hand. 

*'l  have  disturbed  you,  Seiior  Mandeville,"  said  Rosas, 


Sm  JOHN  HENRY  MANDEVILLE  81 

in  suave  and  insinuating  accents,  politely  motioning  the 
Englishman  to  a  chair  at  his  right  and  sitting  down  himself. 

''Disturbed  me!  Oh,  no,  General!  Your  Excellency 
gives  me,  on  the  contrary,  a  real  pleasure  when  you  do 
me  the  honor  to  call  me  to  your  presence.  Senorita  Man- 
uelita  is  well?" 

"Quite  well." 

"I  regret  not  to  have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  her  to-night." 

''She  will  regret  it  also —  But  with  your  permission,  we 
will  now  have  done  with  compliments  and  talk  of  some- 
thing more  serious,"  said  Rosas,  throwing  his  arm  over 
the  back  of  his  chair.  "When  do  you  intend  to  despatch 
the  packet?" 

"As  far  as  the  Legation  is  concerned  it  will  be  ready 
to  sail  to-morrow,  but  if  your  Excellency  wishes  it  to  delay 
a  little  longer " 

''That  is  precisely  what  I  wish." 

"Then  I  will  give  orders  to  detain  it  for  whatever  time 
your  Excellency  may  require  to  finish  your  communica- 
tions." 

"Oh,  my  communications  were  finished  yesterday." 

"Then  may  I  ask " 

"My  communications  are   ready,  but  yours  are  not." 

"I  believe  that  I  told  your  Excellency  that  they  have 
been  finished  since  yesterday;  and  I  have  now  only  a  few 
private  letters  to  write." 

"I  am  not  speaking  of  letters." 

"If  your  Excellency  would  deign  to  explain  to  me " 

"I  believe  that  it  is  your  duty  to  inform  her  Majesty's 
Government,  faithfully  and  in  accordance  with  the  facts,  of 
the  situation  of  affairs  on  the  Plata  at  the  time  of  the 
departure  of  the  packet  for  Europe.     Am  I  right?" 

"Quite  right,  your  Excellency." 


l5\gB 


82  AMALIA 

''But  this  you  have  not  yet  been  able  to  do,  since  you 
are  not  in  possession  of  those  facts." 

'1  inform  my  Government  regarding  general  questions, 
public  events,  but  I  cannot  inform  it  of  facts  which  per- 
tain to  the  internal  policy  of  the  Argentine  Cabinet,  since 
they  are  altogether  unknown  to  me." 

"That  is  very  true;  but  do  you  know  just  how  much 
the  general  questions  you  speak  of  are  worth,  Seiior 
Mandeville?" 

"How  much  they  are  worth?"  said  the  Minister,  repeat- 
ing the  phrase  in  order  to  gain  time  for  reflection. 

"How  much  they  are  worth,  yes  seiior;  how  much  they 
are  worth  to  enlighten  the  Government  to  which  such 
generalities  are  wTitten." 

"They  are  worth " 

"Nothing,  Seiior  Minister." 

"Oh!" 

"Nothing.  You  Europeans  abound  in  generalities  when- 
ever you  wish  to  appear  to  know  a  thing  thoroughly  re- 
specting which  you  are  totally  ignorant.  But  this  system 
has  exactly  the  opposite  effect  of  that  which  you  desire  to 
produce,  for  you  generalize  on  false  data." 

"Your  Excellency  means  to  say " 

"I  mean  to  say,  Sefior  Minister,  that  it  is  your  habit  to 
speak  of  matters  which  you  do  not  understand — at  least 
that  is  the  case  in  regard  to  my  country." 

"But  a  Foreign  Minister  cannot  know  the  private  affairs 
of  a  Government  in  which  he  has  no  part." 

"And  it  is  for  that  reason  that  a  Foreign  IMinister,  if 
he  wishes  to  give  his  own  Government  correct  information, 
should  go  to  the  Chief  of  the  Government  whose  affairs 
he  is  ignorant  of,  and  hear  and  be  grateful  for  his  explana- 
tions." 


SIR  JOHN  HENRY  MANDEVILLE  83 

"That  is  what  I  do." 

*'Not  always." 

*To  my  regret." 

'That  may  be.  Come,  do  you  know  what  is  the  real 
condition  of  affairs  at  present?     Speak  frankly." 

''1  think  that  all  the  probabilities  are  in  favor  of  the 
triumph  of  your  Excellency." 

"And  is  there  any  special  ground  on  which  you  base 
that  opinion?" 

"Undoubtedly." 

"And  what  is  it,  Seilor  Minister?" 

"Your  Excellency's  strength." 

"Bah!  that  is  a  very  vague  phrase  in  the  case  with 
which  we  are  dealing." 

"Vague,  senor !" 

"Certainly;  for  although  I  have  in  effect  strength  and 
resources,  the  anarchists  have  also  strength  and  resources. 
Is  not  that  true?" 

"Oh,  senor!" 

"For  example,  do  you  know  what  Lavalle's  situation  in 
Entre-Rios  is?" 

"Yes,  senor,  he  has  been  unable  to  move  his  troops 
since  the  battle  of  Don  Cristobal,  in  which  the  arms  of  the 
Confederation  obtained  so  signal  a  triumph." 

"But  General  Echagiie  remains  inactive  for  want  of 
horses." 

"But  your  Excellency,  who  is  all-powerful,  will  see  that 
the  general  has  all  the  horses  he  requires." 

"Do  you  know  what  the  condition  of  Corrientes  is?" 

"I  believe  that  if  Lavalle  were  defeated  the  Province  of 
Corrientes  would  return  to  the  Federal  League." 

"Meanwhile  Corrientes  has  taken  up  arms  against  my 
Government;  and  that  makes  two  provinces  already." 


84  AMALIA 

'True,  that  makes  two  provinces;  but " 

''But  what?" 

"But  the  Confederation  has  fourteen." 

"Oh!  not  so  many." 

"Your  Excellency  means " 

"That  it  has  not  now  fourteen;  for  the  provinces  that 
have  joined  the  Unitarians  cannot  be  counted  as  Federal 
provinces." 

"True,  true,  your  Excellency;  but  the  action  of  those 
provinces  is  of  no  importance — at  least  such  is  my  opinion." 

"Did  I  not  tell  you  that  your  generalities  were  ahvays 
based  on  false  data?" 

"Does  your  Excellency  think  so?" 

"What  I  say  I  think,  Sefior  Minister.  Tucuman,  Rioja, 
Catamarca  and  Jujuy  are  all  provinces  of  the  greatest  im- 
portance, and  the  action  of  which  you  speak  is  nothing 
less  than  a  real  revolution  with  abundant  resources  in 
money  and  men." 

"That  would  be  deplorable." 

"So  it  would.  Tucuman,  Salta  and  Jujuy  threaten  me 
on  the  north,  as  far  as  the  frontier  of  Bolivia;  Catamarca 
and  Rioja,  on  the  east,  as  far  as  the  slope  of  the  Cordillera; 
Corrientes  and  Entre-Rios  on  the  coast;  and  who  else, 
Sefior  Minister?" 

"Who  else?" 

"Yes,  sefior,  that  is  the  question  I  have  asked  you ;  but 
I  will  answer  it  myself  since  you  are  afraid  to  name  my 
enemies.     In  addition  to  those,  Rivera  threatens  me." 

"Bahl" 

"He  is  not  so  insignificant  as  you  suppose,  for  he  has 
an  army  to-day  on  the  other  side  of  the  Uruguay." 

"Which  it  will  not  cross." 

"Probably  not;  but  we  must  reason  on  the  supposition 


SIR  JOHN  HENRY  MANDEVILLE  85 

that  it  will,  and  there  you  have  me  surrounded  on  all  sides 
by  enemies  encouraged,  supported  and  protected  by 
France." 

''In  truth  the  situation  is  serious,"  said  the  Minister, 
slowly,  unable  to  comprehend  the  object  of  Rosas  in  thus 
disclosing  himself  the  dangers  that  menaced  him,  a  thing 
which  the  astute  Dictator  would  assuredly  not  have  done 
without  some  powerful  ulterior  motive. 

*'It  is  very  serious !"  repeated  Rosas,  with  a  composure 
which  completed  the  perplexity  of  the  diplomat.  ''And 
now  that  you  know  the  dangers  by  which  I  am  menaced, 
will  you  tell  me  -on  what  grounds  you  base  your  conviction, 
in  your  communications  to  your  Government,  of  my  com- 
plete triumph  over  the  Unitarians;  for  you  do  not  doubt 
that  I  will  obtain  a  complete  triumph?" 

"And  what  more  grounds  are  necessary,  your  Excellency, 
than  the  military  strength,  the  prestige,  the  popularity 
which  are  the  sources  of  your  Excellency's  glory  and 
fame  ?" 

"Bah !  bah !  bah !"  exclaimed  Rosas,  laughing  frankly,  as 
if  in  pity  or  contempt  of  his  hearer's  ignorance. 

"I  do  not  know.  General,"  said  the  Minister,  disconcerted 
at  the  unexpected  result  of  his  polite  flattery,  or  rather  of 
the  expression  of  his  belief,  "which  of  the  words  that  I 
have  just  had  the  honor  of  pronouncing  is  the  unfortunate 
source  of  your  Excellency's  mirth?" 

"All  of  them,  Senor  Diplomat,"  responded  Rosas  with 
undisguised  irony. 

"But  Senor '* 

"Listen  to  me,  Senor  Mandeville ;  all  that  you  have  just 
said  would  do  very  v/ell  to  say  to  the  people,  but  not 
at  all  to  write  to  Lord  Palmerston,  whom  the  Unitarians  of 
Montevideo  call  the  eminent  Minister." 


86  AMALIA 

"Will  your  Excellency  do  me  the  honor  to  explain  to 
me  why?" 

"I  am  coming  to  that.  I  have  told  you  in  detail  all  the 
dangers  which  at  present  threaten  my  Government,  that  is 
to  say,  the  order  and  the  peace  of  the  Argentine  Con- 
federation.   Is  not  that  true  ?" 

"Quite  true,  your  Excellency." 

"And  do  you  know  why  I  have  just  enumerated  all  those 
dangers  ?  Oh,  you  do  not  understand,  you  cannot  perceive 
the  cause  of  my  frankness,  wdiicli  perplexes  and  confounds 
you!  But  I  will  tell  it  to  you  now.  I  have  said  all  that 
I  have  said  because  I  know  very  well  that  on  this  interview 
you  will  base  a  protocol  which  you  will  presently  send 
to  your  Government;  and  that  is  precisely  what  I  most 
desire." 

"That  is  what  your  Excellency  desires !"  exclaimed  the 
Minister,  m.ore  astonished  now  than  he  had  been  perplexed 
before. 

"I  desire  it,  and  the  reason  why  I  desire  it  is  that  it 
suits  me  that  the  English  Government  should  learn  these 
details  from  me  myself  before  learning  them  from  the 
organs  of  my  enemies;  or  at  least  that  it  should  learn  them 
simultaneously  from  both.  Do  you  understand  my  object 
now?  What  would  I  gain  by  concealing  from  the  English 
Government  a  situation  Vvdiich  it  cannot  fail  to  learn  pub- 
licly and  officially,  through  a  thousand  different  channels? 
To  conceal  it  would  be  to  show  fear,  and  I  have  no  fear 
whatever  of  my  present  enemies." 

"It  is  for  that  reason  that  I  said  to  your  Excellency 
that  with  your  resources " 

"Still  harping  on  my  resources,  Senor  Mandeville !" 

"But  unless  it  be  with  your  resources — if  your  Excel- 
lency has  no  resources " 


SIR  JOHN  HENRY  MANDEVILLE  87 

"I  have  resources,  Senor  Minister,"  interrupted  Rosas 
brusquely,  whereupon  the  EngHshman  abandoned  his  last 
hope  of  understanding  Rosas  that  night,  and  not  knowing 
very  well  what  to  say,  uttered  the  words : 

"Well  then! " 

"Well  then !  well  then !  It  is  one  thing  to  have  resources 
and  another  thing  to  rely  altogether  upon  those  resources 
to  free  yourself  from  a  bad  situation.  Do  you  suppose 
that  Lord  Palmerston  does  not  know  how  to  add  and  to 
subtract?  Do  you  suppose  that  if  he  adds  up  the  number 
of  the  enemies  and  the  resources,  backed  by  the  powerful 
aid  of  France,  that  threaten  the  Government  and  the  Federal 
system  of  the  country,  the  eminent  Minister  will  have  a 
great  deal  of  confidence  in  my  triumph,  even  though  you 
should  show  him  that  I  have  an  equal  amount  of  resources 
at  my  demand?  And  do  you  suppose  that  he  would  then 
exert  himself  greatly  to  support  a  Government  whose  situa- 
tion offered  no  probability  of  its  remaining  in  existence 
more  than  a  few  months,  a  few  weeks,  perhaps?  Do  you 
suppose — granting  even  that  your  Government  desired  to 
aid  me  against  my  enemies,  supported  by  France — that  the 
distance  is  less  from  London  to  Paris  and  from  Paris  to 
Buenos  Ayres,  than  from  Entre-Rios  to  the  Retiro  and 
from  Tucuman  to  Santa  Fe,  and  that  Lord  Palmerston  does 
not  know  this?  Bah,  Senor  Mandeville,  I  never  expected 
a  great  deal  from  the  English  Government  in  my  difficulty 
with  France,  but  I  expect  less  than  ever  now,  since  the 
accounts  you  send  that  Government  are  based  on  calcula- 
tions of  my  strength." 

"But,  General,"  said  the  Englishman  In  despair,  for  he 
understood  less  and  less  every  moment  what  Rosas  was 
aiming  at,  "with  what  else  but  your  military  strength,  }[Our: 


88  AMALIA 

armies,  the  Federals,  in  short,  does  your  Excellency  expect 
to  vanquish  the  Unitarians?" 

"With  themselves,  Senor  Mandeville,"  said  Rosas,  with 
German  phlegm,  fixing  his  scrutinizing  gaze  on  the  coun- 
tenance of  the  Minister,  to  observe  the  impression  caused 
him  by  the  sudden  raising  of  the  curtain  which  concealed 
the  mysterious  stage  of  the  Dictator's  mind. 

"Ah!"  exclaimed  the  minister,  opening  wide  his  eyes, 
as  if  his  imagination  had  suddenly  expanded  within  the 
vast  circle  traced  for  it  by  those  few  words,  in  which  he 
saw  the  explanation  of  all  the  reticences  and  paradoxes 
that  a  moment  before  he  had  been  unable  to  comprehend, 
in  spite  of  his  diplomatic  skill  and  experience  which  en- 
abled him  at  times  to  divine  the  reservations  of  Rosas. 

"With  themselves,"  repeated  the  latter  tranquilly.  "And 
they  are  to-day  my  principal  army,  my  strongest  power,  or 
rather  the  power  most  destructive  to  my  enemies." 

"In  effect,  your  Excellency  introduces  me  into  a  region 
of  ideas  where,  frankly  speaking,  I  had  never  before 
penetrated." 

"I  know  it,"  answered  Rosas,  who  never  lost  an  oppor- 
tunity of  making  others  conscious  of  their  mistakes  or  their 
ignorance.  "The  Unitarians,"  he  continued,  "have  not  had 
thus  far,  nor  will  they  ever  have,  what  they  require  in 
order  to  be  strong  and  powerful,  numerous  and  influential 
as  they  are.  They  have  men  of  great  ability,  they  have  the 
best  soldiers  in  the  Republic,  but  they  have  not  unity  in 
action ;  they  all  command,  and  for  that  reason  no  one  obeys. 
The  point  they  all  wish  to  reach  is  the  same,  but  they 
proceed  toward  it  by  different  roads  and  they  will  never 
arrive  at  it.  So  then,  Senor  Minister,  when  one  has 
enemies  like  those  the  best  way  of  destroying  them  is  to 


Sm  JOHN  HENRY  MANDEVILLE  89 

give  them  time  to  destroy  themselves;  and  that  Is  v^hat 
I  am  doing." 

"Excellent !  that  is  a  magnificent  plan !"  said  the  English- 
man enthusiastically. 

"Allow  me,  I  have  not  yet  finished,"  said  Rosas,  with  the 
same  phlegm  as  before ;  "when  one  has  enemies  like  those, 
I  repeat,  one  does  not  estimate  them  by  their  numbers  but 
by  the  value  which  each  fraction,  each  circle,  each  man 
represents ;  and  comparing  these  fractions  with  the  opposite 
power,  solid,  organized,  where  only  one  commands  and  all 
the  others  obey,  as  the  hand  obeys  the  will,  it  may  be 
assumed  that  the  triumph  of  the  latter  is  certain,  infallible, 
even  though,  numerically  considered,  it  may  appear  inferior 
to  its  enemies  taken  as  a  whole.  Do  you  see  now  the  way 
in  which  my  situation  and  that  of  my  enemies  is  to  be 
regarded  ?" 

"Ah!  I  understand,  I  understand,  your  Excellency,"  said 
the  minister,  rubbing  his  white  hands  together  w4th  that 
keen  sense  of  satisfaction  which  one  experiences  w4io  has 
just  found  himself  relieved  from  a  state  of  anxiety  or 
doubt.  "I  will  rewrite  my  communications,  so  that  Lord 
Palmerston  may,  with  full  knowledge  of  the  facts,  give 
his  attention  to  the  situation  of  afifairs,  looking  at  it  from 
the  point  of  view  which  your  Excellency  has  so  ably  and 
so  clearly  indicated." 

"Do  what  you  choose.  All  I  desire  is  that  you  should 
write  the  truth,"  said  Rosas,  with  a  certain  air  of  indif- 
ference, under  which  the  minister,  if  he  had  been  at  this 
moment  less  enthusiastic,  might  have  perceived  that  Rosas 
had  now  begun  to  act  a  part. 

"It  is  as  important  to  the  English  Cabinet  to  know  the 
truth  regarding  the  present  situation,  as  it  is  to  your  Ex- 
cellency that  they  should  know  it." 


90  AMALIA 

"To  me?" 

"Why!  Would  not  your  Excellency  regard  the  aid  of 
England  as  the  greatest  possible  support  ?" 

"In  what  sense?" 

"For  instance,  if  England  should  oblige  France  to  end 
the  question  of  the  Plata,  would  not  that  be  for  your 
Excellency  a  triumph  over  one  half  of  your  enemies?" 

"But  this  intervention  of  England — did  you  not  promise 
it  to  me  from  the  commencement  of  the  blockade?" 

"Very  true,  your  Excellency." 

"And  from  one  packet  to  another  has  not  the  time  passed 
without  your  receiving  the  instructions  which  you  are  al- 
ways asking  for,  but  which  never  arrive?" 

"True,  your  Excellency;  but  now  at  the  slightest  hint 
from  the  English  Government,  the  Government  of  his 
Majesty  the  King  of  the  French  will  despatch  a  pleni- 
potentiary to  settle  this  unfortunate  question  with  your 
Excellency.     There  can  now  be  no  doubt  of  that." 

"And  why  not?" 

"The  French  Government  finds  itself  to-day  in  a  most 
difficult  position,  your  Excellency.  In  Algeria  the  war 
has  burst  forth  with  renewed  violence.  Abd-el-Kader  now 
appears  as  a  formidable  enemy.  In  the  Eastern  Question 
France  only  has  demands  different  from  and  opposed  to 
those  of  the  other  four  Great  Powers  that  have  interfered 
between  the  Sultan  and  the  Pacha  of  Egypt;  fifteen  ships, 
four  frigates  and  several  smaller  vessels  have  been  sent 
by  the  French  Government  to  the  Dardanelles;  and  if  that 
Government  persists  in  its  demands,  or  if  Russia  maintains 
her  right  to  protect  Constantinople,  Louis  Philippe  will 
within  a  very  short  time  be  obliged  to  send  all  his  squadrons 
to  the  Bosphorus  and  the  Dardanelles.  At  home  France 
is  not  any  more  tranquil  or  secure.    The  attempt  of  Stras- 


SIR  JOHN  HENRY  MANDEVILLE  91 

burg  has  set  all  the  Bonapartists  in  motion  and  the  old 
parties  are  beginning  to  raise  their  parliamentary  standard. 
The  ministry  of  Soult,  if  it  has  not  fallen  already  vvill 
soon  fall,  and  the  Opposition  is  working  both  openly  and 
in  secret  to  make  some  one  of  its  eminent  members  Presi- 
dent of  the  Council.  In  this  situation  France  needs  to 
strengthen  more  than  ever  her  alliance  with  England;  and 
for  a  question  which  concerns  her  as  little  as  does  that 
of  the  Plata,  the  French  Cabinet  will  not  put  upon  Lord 
Palmerston  a  slight  which  in  the  present  circumstances 
might  have  very  dangerous  consequences." 

"Whether  it  does  so  or  not  is  to  me  a  matter  of  in- 
difference, Sefior  Minister.  I  am  in  no  danger  either  in 
Constantinople  or  in  Africa,  and  as  far  as  the  blockade 
is  concerned,  it  is  not  I  who  suffer  most  by  it,  as  you  are 
aware." 

"I  know  that,  I  know  that,  your  Excellency;  it  is  British 
commerce  which  suffers  by  this  prolonged  blockade." 

"Do  you  know  the  amount  of  English  capital  shut  up 
in  Buenos  Ayres  because  the  French  squadron  will  not 
allow  it  to  leave  the  country?" 

"Two  million  pounds  sterling,  in  native  products,  which 
deteriorate  every  day." 

"Do  you  know  the  amount  spent  monthly  in  taking  care 
of  those  products?" 

"Twenty  thousand  pounds  sterling,  your  Excellency." 

"Exactly." 

"All  this  I  have  just  communicated  to  my  Government." 

"Do  you  know  the  amount  of  British  capital  invested 
in  manufactures,  which  has  been  stopped  in  its  transit  and 
deposited  for  the  most  part  in  Montevideo?" 

"A  million  pounds  sterling.  This  fact  too  I  have  com- 
municated to  my  Government." 


92  AMALIA 

*'I  am  glad  that  it  should  know  of  these  losses,  since  it 
chooses  to  suffer  them.  You  are  the  ones  interested.  As 
far  as  I  am  concerned  I  know  how  to  protect  myself  against 
the  blockade." 

"I  have  often  said  that  your  Excellency  can  do  all  you 
desire  to  do,"  said  the  minister,  with  a  smile  polite  and 
flattering,  but  at  the  same  time  perfectly  sincere. 

''Not  all,  Senor  Mandeville,"  said  Rosas,  throwing 
himself  back  in  his  chair,  and  fixing  his  eyes,  piercing  as 
arrows,  on  the  countenance  of  the  man  whose  thoughts  he 
was  evidently  about  to  probe  to  their  depths;  "not  every- 
thing ;  when  a  Foreign  Minister,  for  example,  secretly  opens 
his  door  to  a  Unitarian  fleeing  from  justice  I  cannot  rely 
upon  his  frankly  coming  to  tell  me  of  the  fact  and  asking 
me  a  favor  which  I  would  have  no  hesitation  in  granting 
him." 

"What!  Has  such  a  thing  occurred?  For  my  part,  I 
do  not  know  what  minister  your  Excellency  refers  to." 

"You  do  not  know,  Senor  Mandeville?"  asked  Rosas, 
dwelling  upon  every  vv^ord  and  riveting  his  eyes  on  Sir 
John  Henry  Mandeville's  countenance. 

"I  give  your  Excellency  my  word " 

"Enough,"  interrupted  Rosas,  who  before  he  had  spoken 
was  convinced  that  the  minister  was  in  truth  ignorant  of 
what  he  desired  to  know,  and  to  learn  which  alone  he 
had  sent  for  him.  "Enough,"  he  repeated,  rising  and  walk- 
ing about  the  room  lest  he  should  betray  in  his  countenance 
the  rage  which  at  that  moment  shook  his  soul. 

The  minister  rose  from  his  chair  also. 

"You  are  going  then,  Seiior  Mandeville?"  said  the  Dic- 
tator, holding  out  his  hand  to  Mandeville,  who  had  already 
taken  his  hat —  And  without  waiting  for  an  answer  he 
continued : 


SIR  JOHN  HENRY  MANDEVILLE  93 

"When  do  you  intend  to  despatch  the  packet?'* 

'The  day  after  to-morrow,  your  Excellency." 

"That  is  too  late.  Make  your  secretary  work  hard  and 
let  the  packet  sail  to-morrow  afternoon,  or  rather  this  after- 
noon, for  it  is  already  four  o'clock." 

"It  shall  sail  at  six  this  afternoon,  your  Excellency." 

"Good-night,  Sefior  Mandeville." 

And  the  minister,  after  three  or  four  profound  bows, 
left  the  room. 

"Senor!  senor!  what  am  I  to  do  to  the  gringo?"  asked 
Vigua,  who  had  been  maintaining  a  violent  struggle  with 
sleep  during  this  long  conversation,  of  which  he  had  not 
understood  a  single  word. 

But  Rosas,  who  had  not  even  heard  the  question,  threw 
himself  into  a  chair  and  abandoned  himself  to  profound 
and  anxious  thought. 


CHAPTER  VIII 


AN  ANGEL  AND  A  DEMON 


At  a  few  minutes  past  twelve  o'clock  on  the  day  follow- 
ing the  night  on  which  the  events  occurred  which  we  have 
just  narrated,  that  is  to  say,  on  the  5th  of  May,  a  yellow 
carriage  drawn  by  two  handsome  black  horses  entered  the 
Calle  de  las  Piedras  and  driving  to  the  rear  of  San  Juan 
stopped  at  a  house  whose  door  seemed  to  have  come  from 
the  infernal  regions,  so  brilliantly  red  was  its  color. 

A  moment  afterward  a  footman  opened  the  door  of  the 
carriage  and  a  young  girl,  slender  and  graceful  in  figure, 
attired  in  a  gown  of  hyacinth-colored  silk  and  a  white 
cashmere  shawl  with  an  orange  border,  alighted  from  it, 
allowing  a  glimpse  to  be  caught,  as  she  did  so,  of  a 
diminutive  foot  encased  in  a  violet  satin  boot.  This  young 
girl  was  between  seventeen  and  eighteen  years  old,  and 
was  as  beautiful  as  the  dawn,  if  we  may  be  allovvcd  this 
ethereal  comparison.  Her  golden  curls  fell  from  under  the 
brim  of  a  Leghorn  straw  hat  down  either  side  of  a  face 
that  seemed  to  have  stolen  its  color  and  its  freshness  from 
some  newly-opened  rose.  A  broad  and  intelle.ctual  fore- 
head; eyes  limpid  and  blue  as  the  sky  that  lighted  them, 
surmounted  by  finely  penciled  arched  eyebrows  of  a  darker 
hue  than  the  hair,  a  delicately  chiseled  nose,  with  that 
almost  imperceptible  curve  that  is  the  distinctive  mark  of 
imagination  and  genius,  and  finally,  a  small  rosy  mouth 
whose  lower  lip  gave  it  a  resemblance  to  that  of  the  prin- 

94 


AN  ANGEL  AND  A  DEMON  95 

cesses  of  the  house  of  Austria  from  the  charming  defect 
of  projecting  sHghtly  beyond  the  upper  one,  complete  the 
description,  in  so  far  as  it  can  be  described,  of  this  beautiful 
and  distinguished  countenance,  whose  every  feature  re- 
vealed refinement  of  soul,  of  organziation,  and  of  race,  and 
to  do  full  justice  to  which  the  pen  would  seek  in  vain. 

Crossing  the  threshold  of  the  door,  the  young  girl  was 
obliged  to  call  to  her  assistance  all  her  strength  of  will,  as 
well  as  her  perfumed  handkerchief,  to  enable  her  to  make 
her  way  through  the  crovv^d  of  negresses,  mulatto  v/onien, 
servants,  ducks,  hens  and  other  animals,  including  a  num- 
ber of  men  dressed  in  red  from  head  to  foot,  and  having 
every  sign  and  appearance  of  being  sooner  or  later  destined 
to  the  gallows,  that  filled  the  hall  and  a  part  of  the  yard 
of  the  house  of  Dona  Maria  Josef  a  Ezcurra,  sister-in-law 
of  Don  Juan  Manuel  Rosas,  in  which  she  now  found 
herself. 

With  no  little  difficulty  she  reached  the  parlor  door  and 
after  tapping  lightly  on  the  glass,  entered  the  room,  think- 
ing that  she  would  find  there  someone  from  whom  she 
might  inquire  for  the  mistress  of  the  house.  But  the  only 
persons  she  found  in  it  were  two  mulatto  women  and  three 
negresses  who,  comfortably  seated,  and  staining  with  their 
muddy  feet  the  black-and-white  matting  which  covered  the 
floor,  were  conversing  familiarly  with  a  soldier  with  a  red 
chiripd  and  a  face  in  which  it  was  impossible  to  distinguish 
where  the  beast  ended  and  the  man  began. 

The  six  individuals  looked  with  inquisitive  and  insolent 
eyes  at  the  newcomer,  on  whose  person  they  saw  none 
of  the  devices  of  the  Federation  with  which  they  them- 
selves were  profusely  decorated  but  the  ends  of  a  small 
bow  of  pink  ribbon  peeping  from  under  the  left  side  of 
the  brim  of  her  hat. 


96  AMALIA 

''Is  Senora  Dona  Maria  at  home?"  said  the  young  girl, 
after  a  moment's  silence,  without  addressing  directly  any  of 
the  persons  whom  we  have  just  described. 

"She  is;  but  she  is  busy,"  responded  one  of  the  mulatto 
women,  without  rising  from  her  chair. 

The  girl  hesitated  for  an  instant,  then,  resolving  to  end 
the  embarrassing  situation  in  which  she  found  herself  she 
crossed  over  to  one  of  the  windows  that  looked  out  upon 
the  street,  opened  it,  and,  calling  to  her  footman  desired 
him  to  come  to  her. 

The  footman  at  once  obeyed,  and  as  soon  as  he  appeared 
at  the  parlor  door  the  young  girl  said  to  him: 

*'Knock  at  the  door  opening  into  the  inner  yard  of  this 
house  and  ask  if  Senora  Dofia  Maria  Josef  a  will  receive 
Seiiorita  Florencia  Dupasquier." 

Florencia — in  whom  our  readers  will  have  already  recog- 
nized the  mischievous  angel  who  played  with  Daniel's  heart, 
remained  standing  while  waiting  for  the  answer  to  her 
message. 

Before  many  minutes  had  elapsed,  a  respectably-dressed 
woman-servant  made  her  appearance  and  asked  the  young 
girl  to  have  the  goodness  to  wait  for  a  moment. 

She  then  informed  the  five  ladies  of  the  Federation  seated 
in  the  parlor  that  the  Senora  could  not  see  them  until  the 
afternoon,  adding  that  they  must  not  fail  to  return  then. 
They  at  once  rose  to  go,  but  one  of  the  negresses  as  she 
was  leaving  the  room  could  not  refrain  from  casting  an 
angry  glance  at  the  girl  who  had  been  the  cause  of  the 
slight  which  they  had  just  received — a  glance  that  failed 
to  reach  its  destination,  however,  for  Florencia,  since  she 
had  entered  the  parlor  had  not  once  deigned  to  turn  her 
eyes  in  the  direction  of  those  strange  visitors  of  the  sister- 
in-law  of  the  Governor  of  Buenos  Ayres. 


AN  ANGEL  AND  A  DEMON  97 

The  servant  left  the  room  but  the  soldier,  who  had  not 
received  orders  to  retire  and  who  was  there  by  previous 
appointment,  thought  himself  fully  authorized  to  sit  down, 
at  least  outside  the  parlor  door,  and  Florencia  was  at  last 
left  entirely  alone. 

Seating  herself  on  the  only  sofa  in  the  room  she  pressed 
her  hands  to  her  eyes  and  remained  thus  for  a  few  moments, 
as  if  she  desired  to  rest  her  mind  and  her  vision  after 
the  disagreeable  strain  to  v/hich  they  had  just  been 
subjected. 

Meanwhile  Dona  Maria  Josefa  was  hurriedly  dismissing, 
in  a  room  adjoining  the  parlor,  two  women-servants  to 
whom  she  continued  to  talk  without  ceasing  while  she 
placed  one  over  another  some  twenty  petitions  which  had 
been  sent  to  her  during  the  day,  accompanied  by  their  cor- 
responding gifts  of  which  the  ducks  and  hens  in  the  hall 
formed  no  small  part,  in  order  that  she  might  transmit 
them  to  the  Restorer,  though  the  Restorer  was  very  certain 
to  be  troubled  by  none  of  them.  And  she  was  in  haste, 
as  we  have  said,  because  Seiiorita  Florencia  Dupasquier, 
w^ho  had  just  been  announced,  belonged,  on  her  mother's 
side,  to  one  of  the  oldest  and  most  distinguished  families 
of  Buenos  Ayres,  intimately  acquainted  for  a  long  time 
past  with  the  family  of  Rosas,  although  at  the  period  of 
which  we  speak,  availing  themselves  of  the  excuse  of  M. 
Dupasquier's  absence,  his  wife  and  daughter  appeared  but 
rarely  in  society. 

The  door  of  the  room  adjoining  the  parlor  at  last  opened 
and  the  hand  of  the  elegant  Florencia  was  clasped  in  the 
dirty  hand  of  Dona  Maria  Josefa — a  woman  of  short 
stature  and  spare  frame,  with  a  withered  face,  small  eyes, 
and  unkempt  gray  hair,  over  which  floated  the  ends  of 
a  large  bow  of  blood-colored  ribbon,  and  in  whose  coun- 


98  AMALIA 

tenance  the  traces  left  by  her  fifty-eight  years  of  life  had 
been  notably  augmented  by  the  action  of  violent  passions. 

"What  a  wonder  to  see  you!  And  why  did  not  Dona 
Matilde  come  with  you?"  she  said,  seating  herself  on  the 
sofa  at  Florencia's  right. 

"Mamma  is  a  little  indisposed  and  not  being  able  to  present 
her  respects  to  you  in  person  she  has  sent  me  to  do  so 
in  her  stead." 

*'If  I  did  not  know  Dofia  Matilde  and  her  family  as  well 
as  I  do  I  should  believe  that  she  had  turned  Unitarian ;  for 
the  Unitarians  are  to  be  known  now  by  the  seclusion  in 
which  they  live.  And  do  you  know  why  it  is  that  those 
idiots  shut  themselves  up  in  their  houses?" 

*1?     No,  seilora,  how  should  I  know?" 

''Well,  they  keep  in  their  houses  so  that  they  may  not 
have  to  wear  the  badge,  as  is  the  law;  or  have  it  stuck  to 
them  with  pitch,  which  is  stupid;  what  ought  to  be  done, 
I  say,  is  to  nail  it  to  their  heads  so  that  they  couldn't  take 
it  off  even  in  their  houses;  and — but  you  don't  wear  it, 
either,  Florencia,  as  it  ought  to  be  worn." 

"But  I  wear  it,  seiiora." 

"You  wear  it !  You  wear  it !  That  is  the  same  as  if 
you  wore  nothing.  The  Unitarian  women  wear  it  in  that 
way  too;  and  although  you  are  the  daughter  of  a  French- 
man you  are  not  filthy  and  loathsome  as  all  of  them  are. 
You  wear  it;  but " 

"And  that  is  all  that  is  required,  senora,"  said  Florencia, 
interrupting  her,  desiring  to  take  the  initiative  in  the  con- 
versation in  order  to  soften  in  some  degree  this  fury  with 
whom  avarice  was  one  of  the  cardinal  virtues. 

"I  wear  it,"  she  continued;  "and  besides  that  I  have 
brought  you  this  small  donation  which  mamma  desires  to 
make  through  you  to  the  Woman's  Hospital,  whose  re- 


AN  ANGEL  AND  A  DEMON  99 

sources,  they  say,  are  so  nearly  exhausted."  And  Florencia 
took  from  her  pocket  a  small  ivory  pocket-book  containing 
four  bank-notes  neatly  folded,  which  she  put  into  Dona 
Maria  Josefa's  hand  and  which  were  in  reality  her  savings 
from  the  monthly  allowance  which  her  father  had  given 
her  ever  since  her  fourteenth  birthday. 

Dona  Maria  Josefa  unfolded  the  notes  and  her  eyes 
dilated  when  she  savv^  that  each  note  bore  the  number  lOo; 
and  rolling  them  up  and  putting  them  inside  the  bosom 
of  her  black  gown  she  said,  with  that  air  of  gratified  avarice 
so  well  painted  by  Molier-e: 

"This  is  being  a  Federal !  Tell  your  mamma  that  I 
will  inform  Juan  Manuel  of  this  act  of  humanity,  which 
does  her  so  much  credit;  and  to-morrow  I  will  send  the 
money  to  Senor  Don  Carlos  Rosado,  one  of  the  trustees 
of  the  Woman's  Hospital" ;  and  she  pressed  her  hand  upon 
the  notes  as  if  she  v/as  afraid  that  the  lie  she  had  just 
uttered  might  come  true. 

''Mamma  would  consider  herself  amply  repaid  if  you 
would  have  the  goodness  to  say  nothing  about  this  act 
vvhich  she  regards  as  a  duty.  You  know  that  the  Seiior 
Governor  has  not  time  to  attend  to  everything.  The  war 
occupies  every  moment  of  his  time,  and  if  it  were  not 
for  you  and  Manuelita  he  would  never  be  able  to  attend  to 
all  the  responsibilities  with  which  he  is  burdened." 

"And  well  we  help  the  poor  man !"  answered  Dona  Maria 
Josefa,  settling  herself  comfortably  on  the  sofa. 

"I  don't  know  how  Manuelita  manages  to  keep  well.  She 
sits  up  all  night,  they  say,  but  that  will  finally  make  her 
ill,"  said  Florencia,  in  the  most  sympathetic  of  tones. 

"Of  course  it  will  make  her  ill.  Last  night,  for  example, 
she  did  not  go  to  bed  until  four  in  the  morning.'* 

"Until  four?" 


100  AMALIA 

"And  after/' 

"But  I  believe  that  fortunately  there  are  now  no  dis- 
turbances." 

"Bah !  how  easy  it  is  to  see  that  you  know  nothing  about 
politics.     Now,  more  than  ever.'' 

"True,  I  cannot  have  a  knowledge  of  secrets  which  only 
you  and  Manuelita  are  worthy  of  knowing;  but  I  imagined 
that  Entre-Rios,  which  is  the  theater  of  the  war,  being  so 
far  away,  the  Unitarians  here  would  not  give  much  trouble 
to  the  government." 

"Poor  child!  All  you  know  anything  about  is  your 
bonnets  and  your  gowns.  And  the  Unitarians  who  want 
to  leave  the  country?" 

"Oh!  they  cannot  be  prevented  from  doing  that!  The 
coast  is  immense!" 

"They  cannot  be  prevented,  you  say?" 

"So  it  seems  to  me." 

"Bah!  bah!  bah!"  and  Dona  Maria  Josefa  burst  into  a 
demoniac  laugh,  disclosing  to  view  three  small  yellow  teeth, 
the  only  ones  that  remained  in  her  lower  jaw.  "Do  you 
know  how  many  they  captured  last  night?"  she  asked. 

"No,  senora,"  answered  Florencia,  with  an  air  of  the 
most  complete  indifference. 

"Four,  child." 

"Four?" 

"Exactly." 

"Those,  at  least,  cannot  go  away,  for  I  suppose  they  are 
by  this  time  in  prison." 

"Oh!  I  will  answer  for  it  that  they  will  not  go  away. 
Something  better  has  been  done  with  them  than  putting 
them  in  prison,  however." 

"Something  better !"  exclaimed  Florencia,  in  feigned  sur- 
prise, concealing  the  fact  that  she  already  knew  the  fate 


AN  ANGEL  AND  A  DEMON  101 

of  those  unfortunate  men,  for  she  had  just  come  from  the 
house  of  the  Dictator's  sister,  Senora  de  Mancilla,  from 
whom  she  had  learned  the  tragic  events  of  the  preceding 
night,  akhough  she  had  not  heard  a  word  regarding  the 
man  who  had  had  the  good  fortune  to  escape. 

"Better,  of  course.  The  good  Federals  have  taken  charge 
of  them ;  they  have — they  have  shot  them." 

"Ah!  they  have  shot  them!" 

"And  well  done ;  it  was  a  piece  of  good  fortune,  although 
accompanied  by  a  trifling  piece  of  ill-fortune." 

"Oh !  but  only  a  trifling  one,  you  say,  and  trifles  trouble 
people  like  you  very  little." 

"Sometimes  they  do.     One  succeeded  in  escaping." 

"But  there  won't  be  much  difliculty  in  finding  him,  for 
the  police  are  very  active,  I  believe." 

"Not  very." 

"They  say  that  in  that  department  Senor  Victorica  is 
a  genius,"  persisted  the  mischievous  diplomatist,  who  de- 
sired to  wound  Dona  Maria  Josefa's  vanity. 

"Don't  talk  nonsense.  I — I  and  no  one  else  it  is,  who 
do  everything." 

"So  I  have  always  understood;  and  in  the  present  in- 
stance I  am  almost  sure  that  you  will  be  of  more  use  than 
the  chief  of  police." 

"You  may  swear  that." 

"Although  on  the  other  hand,  your  many  occupations 
may  perhaps  prevent  you " 

"Nothing,  nothing  shall  prevent  me.  Sometimes  I 
wonder  how  I  can  find  time  to  do  all  I  do.  Two  hours 
ago  I  left  Juan  Manuel's  house,  and  I  know  more  now 
about  the  fugitive  than  Victorica  himself,  whom  they  extol 
so  greatly." 

"Is  it  possible?" 


102  AMALIA 

"Just  as  you  hear." 

"But  that  is  incredible — two  hours — and  you  a  woman!" 

"Just  as  you  hear,"  repeated  Dona  Maria  Josefa,  whose 
weaknesses  were:  to  boast  of  her  exploits,  to  criticize  Vic- 
torica  and  to  endeavor  to  win  the  admiration  of  all  who 
heard  her. 

"I  believe  it  because  you  say  so,  senora,"  continued 
Florencia,  who  was  entering  at  a  rapid  pace  the  dark 
cavern  in  which  this  fanatic  guarded  her  ill-kept  secrets. 

"Oh!  you  may  take  my  word  for  it  just  as  if  you 
saw  it." 

"But  you  must  have  sent  at  least  a  hundred  men  in 
pursuit  of  the  fugitive?" 

"Not  at  all.  Why!  I  sent  for  Merlo,  who  is  the  man 
who  denounced  them;  he  came,  but  the  ass  can  neither 
tell  the  name  nor  give  a  description  of  the  one  who  escaped. 
Then  I  sent  for  several  of  the  soldiers  who  took  part  in 
the  affair  of  last  night;  and  sitting  there  on  the  door-step 
is  the  one  who  has  given  me  the  best  information.  And — 
you  shall  hear  what  a  clue!  Camilo!"  she  called,  and  the 
soldier  entered  the  room  and  advanced  toward  her,  hat 
in  hand. 

"Tell  me,  Camilo,"  she  continued,  "what  signs  can  you 
give  of  the  filthy,  loathsome  Unitarian  savage  who  escaped 
last  night?" 

"That  he  must  have  a  great  many  wounds  on  his  body 
and  that  I  know  where  one  of  them  is,"  answered  the 
soldier,  with  an  expression  of  savage  joy  on  his 
countenance. 

"Where?"  asked  the  old  woman. 

"On  the  left  thigh." 

"What  kind  of  a  wound  is  it  ?" 

"A  saber-cut — and  a  deep  one." 


AN  ANGEL  AND  A  DEMON  103 

*'Are  you  certain  of  v/hat  you  say?" 

"I  ought  to  be  certain!  It  was  I  who  gave  him  the 
wound,  senora." 

Florencia  leaned  back  in  a  corner  of  the  sofa. 

"Very  well;  you  may  go  now,  Camilo/' 

"Now  you  have  heard,"  continued  the  sister-in-law  of 
Rosas,  turning  to  Senorita  Dupasquier,  who  had  not  lost 
a  single  word  of  what  the  ruffian  had  said,  "now  you  have 
heard — wounded  in  the  thigh.  Oh !  it  is  a  discovery  which 
is  worth  a  few  thousands !     Don't  you  think  so  ?" 

"I?  I  do  not  comprehend,  seflora,  of  what  importance 
it  can  be  to  you  to  know  that  the  man  who  escaped  has 
a  wound  in  the  left  thigh.'* 

"You  do  not  comprehend?" 

"Assuredly  not,  for  I  suppose  that  the  wounded  man 
is  by  this  time  in  his  own  or  some  other  person's  house 
having  his  wounds  dressed,  and  wounds  cannot  be  seen 
through  the  walls  of  a  house." 

"Innocent  child!"  exclaimed  Dona  Maria  Josefa,  laugh- 
ing and  slapping  Florencia  on  the  knee  with  her  lean  and 
bony  hand;  "innocent  child!  that  wound  affords  me  three 
clues  to  the  hiding-place  of  the  fugitive." 

"Three  clues  to  his  hiding-place  ?" 

"Just  so;  hear  what  they  are  and  learn  something:  the 
physicians  who  attend  wounded  men ;  the  apothecaries  who 
sell  remedies  for  wounds;  and  the  houses  in  which  it  is 
observed  that  there  is  a  sudden  case  of  sickness.  What 
do  you  think  of  them?" 

"If  you  think  them  good,  senora,  they  must  be  so,"  said 
the  young  girl,  who  was  now  obliged  to  make  a  great  effort 
of  self-control,  to  be  able  to  endure  longer  the  presence 
of  this  woman  whose  breath,  it  seemed  to  her  was  infected 
)>y  the  venom  of  her  soul. 


104  AMALIA 

"And  if  these  should  fail,  I  have  another  clue  in  reserve 
— the  washerwoman  who  Avashes  the  wounded  man's  blood- 
stained linen.  And  that  I  know  would  not  have  occurred 
to  Victorica  in  a  year." 

"I  beheve  it." 

''And  still  less  to  any  of  those  fatuous  and  spendthrift 
Unitarians  who  think  they  know  everything  and  can  do 
everything." 

"Of  that  I  have  not  the  slightest  doubt,"  exclaimed 
Senorita  Dupasquier,  so  promptly  and  in  so  joyful  an  accent 
that  anyone  but  Dona  Maria  Josefa  would  have  at  once 
comprehended  the  satisfaction  it  gave  the  young  girl  to 
do  this  justice  to  the  Unitarians — to  that  distinguished  class 
to  which  she  herself  belonged  by  birth  and  education. 

"Oh,  Florencia !  don't  go  and  marry  a  Unitarian !  Along 
with  being  filthy  and  loathsome,  they  are  such  fools  that 
the  most  insignificant  Federal  could  twist  any  of  them 
around  his  finger.  And  apropos  of  marriage,  what  has 
Senor  Don  Daniel  been  doing  with  himself  of  late  that 
he  is  to  be  seen  nowhere?" 

"He  is  very  well,  senora." 

"I  am  glad  to  hear  it.  But  take  care;  keep  your  eyes 
open.    Mind,  I  am  giving  you  good  advice." 

"Keep  my  eyes  open!  And  to  see  what,  senora?"  asked 
Florencia,  whose  curiosity  as  a  woman  in  love  was  a  little 
piqued. 

"To  see  what?  Oh,  you  know  what!  Lovers  divine 
those  things." 

"But  what  do  you  wish  me  to  divine?" 

"Why!     Are  you  not  in  love  with  Bello?" 

"Senora !" 

"Don't  try  to  hide  from  me  what  I  know." 

"If  you  know " 


AN  ANGEL  AND  A  DEMON  105 

"If  I  know,  I  ought  to  warn  you  that  there  are  Moors 
on  the  coast ;  to  take  care  that  you  are  not  being  deceived, 
for  I  am  as  fond  of  you  as  if  you  were  my  own  daughter." 

"Deceived!  By  whom?  I  assure  you,  senora,  that  I  do 
not  understand  you,"  rephed  Florencia,  a  Httle  disturbed, 
but  making  an  effort  to  hide  her  feeUngs,  in  order  to  draw 
from  Dona  Maria  Josefa  the  secret  which  the  latter  hinted 
she  possessed. 

"Well,  that  is  amusing!  And  whom  should  I  allude  to 
but  Daniel  himself?" 

"Oh!  that  is  impossible,  seiiora.  Daniel  has  never  de- 
ceived me,"  answered  Florencia,  proudly. 

"So  I  have  wished  to  think,  but  I  have  facts."    . 

"Facts?" 

"Proofs.  Don't  you  ever  let  your  thoughts  dwell  on 
Barracas  ?    Come,  tell  me  the  truth ;  no  one  can  deceive  me." 

"I  think  sometimes  about  Barracas,  but  I  don't  see  what 
Barracas  can  have  to  do  with  me." 

"With  you,  indirectly ;  with  Daniel,  directly." 

"You  think  so?" 

"And  a  certain  Amalia,  a  first  cousin  of  a  certain  Daniel, 
an  acquaintance,  and  something  more,  of  a  certain 
Florencia,  thinks  so  too,  and  knows  so  even  better  than 
I  do.  Do  you  understand  now,  my  innocent  dove?"  said 
the  old  woman,  laughing  and  stroking  with  her  dirty  hand 
Florencia's  polished  and  rosy  shoulder. 

"I  comprehend  in  part  what  you  wish  to  say  to  me  but  I 
believe  there  is  some  mistake  in  all  this,"  answered  the 
young  girl,  with  feigned  composure,  for  her  heart  had  just 
received  a  blow  for  which  it  was  not  prepared,  although 
she  knew  perfectly  well  the  slander-loving  disposition  of 
the  person  with  whom  she  was  speaking. 

"I   am  not  mistaken.     No,   senorita.     Whom  does  this 


106  AMALIA 

Amalia,  a  widow,  living  a  solitary  and  independent  life, 
receive  in  her  villa?  Daniel  only.  How  do  you  suppose 
that  Daniel,  who  is  young  and  handsome,  and  his  cousin, 
who  is  young  and  beautiful  and  the  mistress  of  her  actions, 
spend  their  time  when  they  are  together?  Not  praying,  I 
imagine.  Why  does  Amalia  lead  the  secluded  life  she  does  ? 
Daniel  must  know,  for  he  is  the  only  one  who  visits  her. 
What  does  Daniel  do  with  himself  of  late,  that  he  is  to 
be  seen  nowhere?  Daniel  goes  every  afternoon  to  visit  his 
cousin  and  in  the  evening  he  visits  you.  That  is  the  way 
with  the  young  men  of  the  present  day^ — they  divide  their 
time  among  as  many  women  as  they  can.  But  what  is  the 
matter?     You  look  pale." 

*'It  is  nothing,  senora,"  said  Florencia,  v/ho  had,  in  fact, 
turned  very  pale,  for  all  the  blood  in  her  body  had  rushed 
to  her  heart. 

*'Bah!"  exclaimed  Dona  Maria  Josefa,  with  a  strident 
laugh ;  "bah !  bah !  bah !  And  I  haven't  told  you  everything, 
either.    See  what  girls  are !" 

''Everything !"  exclaimed  Florencia. 

"No,  I  don't  want  to  do  anyone  an  injury,"  and  she 
continued  to  laugh  boisterously,  enjoying  the  tortures  she 
was  inflicting  on  the  heart  of  her  victim. 

"Senora,  I  am  going  now,"  said  Florencia,  rising  with 
trembling  limbs. 

"Poor  child!  Pull  his  ears  well  for  him;  don't  allow 
yourself  to  be  deceived,"  said  Dona  Maria  Josefa,  without 
rising,  bursting  again  into  a  malicious  laugh.  And  it 
seemed  to  be  the  laughter  of  a  devil  that  alternately  con- 
tracted and  expanded  the  coarse,  loose,  blotched  skin  of 
the  face  of  the  woman  who  at  this  moment  would  have 
served  as  a  perfect  model  for  one  of  the  witches  of  Spanish 
legend. 


[AN  ANGEL  AND  A  DEMON  107 

"Senora,  I  am  going  now,"  repeated  Florencia,  giving 
her  hand  to  the  woman  who  had  just  clouded  the  happiness 
reflected  in  the  clear  and  shining  mirror  of  her  soul  with 
the  first  shadow  of  a  horrible  suspicion  of  her  lover's 
fidelity. 

''Well,  child,  good-bye.  Remember  me  to  your  mamma 
and  tell  her  to  get  well  quickly  so  that  we  may  see  each 
other  soon.  Good-bye,  and  keep  your  eyes  open,  eh!"  and, 
still  laughing,  she  rose  and  accompanied  Senorita  Dupas- 
quier  to  the  street  door. 


CHAPTER  IX 

ONE   OF   DANIEL'S   AGENTS 

At  nine  o'clock  on  the  morning  of  the  same  day,  to  go 
back  a  Httle  in  our  story,  Daniel  was  tranquilly  dressing, 
with  the  assistance  of  his  faithful  Fermin,  who  had  already 
executed  all  the  commissions  with  which  he  had  been  en- 
trusted by  his  master. 

''And  now  tell  me  who  are  outside,"  said  the  latter,  after 
he  had  drawn  from  Fermin  by  innumerable  questions,  a 
minute  description  of  the  looks,  the  manner  and  the  dress 
of  the  beautiful  Florencia  when  he  delivered  to  her  the 
flowers  and  the  letter  which  Daniel  had  sent  her. 

*'The  woman  you  sent  me  for  and  Don  Candido." 

"Ah!  my  master  in  pot-hooks  and  hangers,  the  genius 
of  adjectives  and  digressions  1  And  what  may  be  the 
object  of  his  visit?    Do  you  know,  Fermin?" 

''No,  senor.  He  says  that  he  desires  urgently  to  speak 
to  you;  that  he  came  this  morning  at  six  and  found  the 
door  closed;  and  that  he  returned  at  seven  and  has  been 
waiting  ever  since  for  you  to  rise." 

"The  devil !  my  former  writing  master  has  not  lost  his 
love  of  tormenting  me,  it  seems ;  and  he  would  have  liked 
to  make  me  get  up  at  six  o'clock  in  the  morning!  Show 
him  into  my  study,  but  not  untd  Dona  Marcelina  has  gone. 
And  you  may  send  her  in  now,"  he  added. 

*'Shall  I  show  her  in  here?"  asked  Fermin  hesitatingly. 

"Here,  my  chaste  Senor  Don  Fermin;  I  believe  I  am 

108 


ONE  OF  DANIEL'S  AGENTS  109 

not  speaking  in  Greek.  Here,  into  my  bedroom,  and  take 
care  to  close  the  door  leading  from  the  study  into  the 
parlor  and  the  door  of  this  room  also  when  you  have  shown 
her  in." 

A  few  moments  later  the  rustling  of  stiffly  starched  skirts 
announced  to  Daniel  the  approach  of  Dona  Marcelina 
through  the  adjoining  room. 

A  moment  afterward  she  appeared,  dressed  in  a  claret- 
colored  gown  and  a  yellow  merino  shawl  with  a  black 
border.  A  stiff  white  handkerchief,  which  she  held  by  the 
middle,  in  order  to  display  fully  the  cupid  embroidered 
in  pink  wool  on  each  of  its  corners,  and  a  large  knot  of 
red  ribbon  set  on  the  left  side  of  her  head,  completed  the 
visible  part  of  the  adornment  of  this  woman,  on  whose 
plump,  swarthy  face,  of  which  the  best  feature  was  a  pair 
of  large  black  eyes  that  must  have  been  beautiful  before 
they  had  lost  their  pristine  brilliancy,  forty-eight  winters 
with  their  corresponding  storms  had  left  clearly  defined 
traces — traces  which  two  thick  ringlets  of  coarse  hair,  of 
a  hue  between  chocolate  and  weak  coffee  color,  falling  on 
either  side  down  to  her  chin,  tried  in  vain  to  disguise. 
Add  to  this  a  figure  rather  tall  than  short,  rather  stout  than 
slender,  with  a  bust  of  exuberant  proportions,  and  the 
reader  will  have  an  approximate  idea  of  Dona  Marcelina, 
as  Daniel  greeted  her  without  rising  with  that  smile  that 
has  nothing  of  familiarity  but  that  is  yet  distinctly  en- 
couraging, which  is  characteristic  of  persons  of  rank  ac- 
customed to  deal  with  inferiors. 

"I  want  you  to  do  me  a  service,  Dofia  Marcelina,"  he 
said,  motioning  her  to  a  seat  opposite  to  him. 

"I  am  always  at  your  orders,  Senor  Don  Daniel,"  an- 
swered the  newcomer,  seating  herself  and  spreading  out 
her  skirt,  taking  it  at  either  side  between  the  tips  of  the 


110  AMALIA 

thumb  and  forefinger,  as  if  she  were  preparing  to  dance 
the  modest  and  stately  minuet,  causing  the  chair  on  which 
she  sat  to  disappear  under  its  voluminous  folds. 

"First  of  all,  how  do  you  do  and  how  are  all  at  home?" 
asked  Daniel,  who  was  a  man  who  never  set  his  foot  down 
firmly  on  the  ground  without  having  first  tested  it,  even 
though  he  had  walked  over  it  the  day  before. 

^'Full  of  troubles,  sefior.  The  life  one  leads  in  Buenos 
Ayres  in  these  days  is  hard  enough  to  expiate  all  the  sins 
one  has  ever  committed." 

"You  will  have  so  much  the  less  to  settle  for,  when  you 
pass  to  life  eternal,"  responded  Daniel,  regarding  his  hands 
as  if  they  engaged  all  his  thoughts. 

"There  are  some  people  who  have  more  sins  than  I  to 
answer  for,  who  won't  be  kept  out  of  heaven  by  them," 
returned  Dona  Marcelina  with  a  nod. 

"For  instance?" 

"For  instance,  those  you  know  of." 

"There  are  certain  things  that  I  forget  with  facility." 

"Well,  I  don't,  and  if  I  were  to  live  to  be  a  hundred 
years  old,  I  should  never  forget  them,  not  even  for  a  day." 

"That  is  wrong;  to  forgive  our  enemies  is  a  precept  of 
our  religion." 

"Forgive  them!  After  the  mortification  they  made  me 
suffer;  after  the  danger  they  made  me  run  and  from  which 
I  was  only  saved  by  the  influence  of  one  of  my  friends, 
who  took  pity  upon  'innocence  oppressed  by  tyranny,  which 
is  the  most  inhuman  thing  there  can  be,'  as  Rousseau  says," 
emphatically  exclaimed  Dona  Marcelina,  whose  weak  point 
was  a  fondness  for  making  quotations  on  every  possible 
occasion. 

"By-the-by,  what  are  you  reading  now,  Senora  Dofia 
Marcelina  ?" 


ONE  OF  DANIEL'S  AGENTS  111 

"I  am  finishing  El  Hijo  del  Carnavel  to  read  Lucinda 
afterwards,  as  soon  as  my  niece  Tomasita  gets  through 
with  it." 

"Excellent  books !  And  who  lends  you  this  choice  collec- 
tion of  works?  "  said  Daniel,  leaning  his  elbow  on  the 
arm  of  his  chair  and  fixing  his  tranquil  and  penetrating 
gaze  on  the  countenance  of  the  scatter-brained  woman 
opposite  to  him. 

"They  are  not  lent  to  me.  His  Reverence,  Father  Gaete, 
brings  them  to  my  niece  Andrea." 

"And  what  would  you  do,"  said  Daniel,  gravely,  "if 
the  reverend  curate  of  La  Piedad  should  some  day  find 
in  your  house  what  I  found  there  the  day  I  entered  it 
for  the  first  time,  introduced  by  Mr.  Douglas?" 

"Good  Heavens !  I  should  be  ruined !  But  Father  Gaete 
will  not  be  as  inquisitive  as  Seiior  Don  Daniel  Bello  was," 
said  Dofia  Marcelina,  with  an  air  of  friendly  reproach. 

"You  are  right,  and  I  was  right  also.  I  went  to  your 
house  to  deliver  to  you  a  letter  which  you  were  to  take 
to  the  address  I  should  give  you.  I  asked  you  for  a  pen 
and  ink  to  direct  the  letter;  at  that  moment  there  was 
a  knock  at  the  door;  you  told  me  to  hide  myself  in  the 
bedroom,  saying  that  I  would  find  a  pen  and  ink  on  the 
table  there;  I  looked,  but  could  not  find  them;  I  opened 
the  drawer,  and " 

"You  ought  not  to  have  read  what  was  in  it,  you  little 
rogue;"  interrupted  Dona  Marcelina,  her  tone  growing 
more  affectionate  every  moment,  as  it  always  did  when 
Daniel  spoke  to  her  on  this  subject — a  thing  which  hap- 
pened every  time  they  met. 

"And  how  could  I  resist  the  temptation?  Montevidean 
newspapers !" 

"Sent  to  me  by  my  son,  as  I  have  already  told  you." 


112  AMALIA 

"Yes,  but  the  letter!'* 

"Ah,  yes,  the  letter !  On  account  of  that  those  barbarians 
would  have  shot  me  without  compunction.  How  im- 
prudent I  was!  And  what  have  you  done  with  the  letter, 
my  handsome  youth?     Do  you  still  keep  it?" 

"Oh !  to  say  that  you  would  crop  the  hair  of  every  w^oman 
belonging  to  the  family  of  Rosas,  when  Lavalle  should 
enter  the  city — that  was  very  serious,  Doiia  Marcelina!" 

"What  would  you  have!  The  heat  of  passion!  The 
insults  I  had  received!  But  I  would  not  be  capable  of 
doing  it !  And  the  letter,  do  you  still  keep  it,  you  rascal  ?" 
again  asked  Dona  Marcelina,  forcing  a  smile. 

"I  have  already  told  you  that  I  took  that  letter  in  order 
to  save  you  from  a  danger." 

"But  you  ought  to  have  torn  it  up." 

"That  would  have  been  an  unheard-of  piece  of  stupidity." 

"But  what  are  you  keeping  it  for?" 

"In  order  to  have  a  document  by  means  of  which  to  turn 
your  patriotism  to  account,  if  things  should  one  day  change. 
I  desire  that  the  services  you  are  constantly  rendering  me 
shall  be  well  rewarded  later." 

"Is  that  your  only  reason  for  keeping  it?" 

"You  have  thus  far  given  me  no  cause  to  change  it  for 
any  other,"  replied  Daniel  slowly,  dwelling  upon  every 
word. 

"Nor  will  I  ever  do  so!"  exclaimed  the  poor  woman, 
relieving  her  breast  by  a  deep  drawn  sigh  of  the  weight 
that  had  oppressed  it  during  the  conversation  about  the 
letter  that  was  her  constant  nightmare. 

"I  beheve  it.  And  now  let  us  proceed  to  business.  Have 
you  seen  Douglas?" 

"I  saw  him  three  days  ago.  Last  night  he  took  five 
persons  across,  two  of  whom  were  sent  to  him  by  me." 


ONE  OF  DANIEL'S  AGENTS  113 

"Very  good.  You  must  see  him  again  to-day,  and  im- 
mediately." 

"I  will  go  at  once." 

Daniel  went  into  his  study,  took  from  beneath  the  bronze 
inkstand  the  letter  which  he  had  placed  there  the  night 
before,  enclosed  it  in  a  second  envelope,  and  taking  a  pen 
with  him,  returned  to  the  bedroom. 

"Write  the  address  on  this  letter.'* 

"Yes,  you ;  To  Mr.  Douglas.' " 

"Nothing  more?" 

"Nothing  more." 

"It  is  done,"  she  said,  when  she  had  written  the  address 
dictated  by  Daniel,  using  her  massive  knee  as  a  table. 

•  "Go  to  Mr.  Douglas,  ask  to  see  him  in  private,  and  give 
him  this  letter  from  me." 

"Very  well." 

"One  thing  more. — Remember  that  the  slightest  indis- 
cretion on  your  part,  without  costing  me  a  hair  would  cost 
you  your  head." 

"My  Hfe  has  been  in  your  hands  for  a  long  time  past, 
Senor  Daniel;  but  even  if  that  were  not  the  case  I  would 
die  for  the  least  of  the  Unitarians." 

"We  are  not  talking  now  of  the  Unitarians,  nor  have 
I  ever  told  you  that  I  am  one — Are  you  sure  that  you 
remember  all  that  I  have  said?" 

"I  don't  know  any  other  who  has  a  memory  to  equal 
mine,"  answered  Dona  Marcelina,  who  was  somewhat  dis- 
turbed by  the  serious  tone  in  which  Daniel  had  just  spoken. 

"Good;  we  will  now  say  good-bye,  then." 

And  Daniel,  going  into  his  study,  opened  his  desk  and 
took  from  it  a  500  dollar  bank-note,  which  he  put  into 
Dona  Marcelina's  hand,  saying: 


114  AMALIA 

"There  is  something  to  buy  bon-bons  for  yourself  and 
your  nieces." 

"You  are  a  jewel!"  cried  Dona  Marcelina,  effusively. 
"Good-bye  Don  Daniel,"  and  with  a  bow  that  was  not  with- 
out a  certain  air  of  good  breeding,  she  left  the  room,  moving 
like  a  Hamburg  poleacre  under  full  sail. 


CHAPTER  X 

IN    WHICH    THE     MAN    WITH    THE    BAMBOO    CANE    MAKES 
HIS  APPEARANCE 

Dona  Marcelina  was  no  sooner  outside  the  parlor  door 
than  Fermin  introduced  the  schoolmaster  into  Daniel's 
room. 

Holding  his  hat  in  his  left  hand  and  his  bamboo  cane 
in  his  right  the  schoolmaster  entered  with  magisterial  gait, 
and  laying  his  hat  and  cane  on  a  chair,  advanced  toward 
Daniel  with  outstretched  hand. 

"Good-morning,  my  dear  and  esteemed  Daniel.  To-day, 
because  I  desire  most  particularly  to  see  you,  it  seems  that 
I  have  had  greater  difficulty  in  doing  so  than  ever  before. 
I,  your  first  teacher!  But  I  have  obtained  access  to  you 
at  last,  and,  with  your  permission,  I  will  take  a  seat." 

"You  know,  seiior,  that  I  generally  rise  late." 

"You  always  had  that  incorrigible  habit,  that  ineradicable 
vice;  more  than  once  did  I  punish  you  severely  for  not 
being  present  at  the  improrogable  hours  of  study." 

"And  with  all  your  punishments  you  did  not  succeed  in 
teaching  me  to  write,  which  is  the  worst  thing  that  could 
have  happened  to  me,  my  dear  Sefior  Don  Candido.'* 

"For  which  I  congratulate  myself  cordially." 

''Indeed!     A  thousand  thanks,  senor." 

"In  the  thirty-two  years  during  which  I  exercised  the 
noble,  arduous,  and  delicate  functions  of  the  primary 
teacher,   I   invariably  observed  that   dull-witted  boys   ac- 

115 


116  AMALIA 

quired  with  facility  a  beautiful,  legible,  free  and  neat  hand- 
writing, while  boys  of  great  and  brilliant  promise  like 
yourself  never  learned  to  write  even  tolerably  well." 

"Thanks  for  the  compliment,  but  I  assure  you  that  I 
should  be  very  well  satisfied  to  have  less  genius  and  a 
better  hand." 

"But  that  does  not  prevent  you  from  entertaining  an 
affectionate  and  sincere  regard  for  me,  does  it?" 

"Certainly  not,  sefior;  I  respect  you,  as  I  respect  all  the 
persons  who  directed  my  early  education." 

"And  you  would  do  me  a  service  the  day  I  should  ask 
you  to  do  me  one?" 

"On  the  instant,  if  it  were  in  my  power  to  do  so.  Speak 
frankly." 

"Yes?" 

"At  the  present  day,  for  instance,  reverses  in  fortune 
are  very  general.  Nothing  is  more  common  than  pecuniary 
difficulties  in  times  like  these  through  which  we  are  pass- 
ing. Speak  frankly,"  repeated  Daniel,  who,  from  a  feeling 
of  delicacy,  wished  to  spare  his  former  master  the  em- 
barrassment of  enlarging  on  the  political  situation  in  its 
bearing  on  private  interests,  in  case  it  should  have  been 
a  pecuniary  matter  that  had  brought  Don  Candido  to  his 
house. 

"No,  it  is  not  money  that  I  need;  fortunately,  with  my 
savings  I  have  accumulated  a  small  capital,  on  the  interest 
of  which  I  live  passably  well,  comfortably,  even.  It  is 
something  of  much  greater  importance  that  I  desire  from 
you.  There  are  terrible  epochs  in  life — epochs  of  calamity, 
of  public  disturbance,  when  revolutions  put  us  all,  the 
innocent  and  the  guilty  alike,  in  danger.  For  revolu- 
tions  " 

"I  beg  your  pardon,  senor,  but  I  think  you  have  wandered 


THE  MAN  WITH  THE  BAMBOO  CANE     117* 

from  your  subject,"  said  Daniel,  who  knew  by  experience 
that  the  man  to  whom  he  was  speaking  was  one  of  those 
whose  digressions  are  interminable,  if  they  are  allowed  to 
go  on  talking  without  interruption. 

"I  am  coming  to  it." 

*The  best  way  in  the  world,  senor,  to  arrive  quickly  at 
the  point  we  wish  to  reach  is  to  begin  at  the  beginning 
and  to  go  straight  forward.  To  the  matter  in  hand,  then," 
insisted  Daniel,  who  although  he  sometimes  amused  him- 
self with  the  prolixities  of  his  old  writing-master  had  to-day 
neither  the  time  nor  the  inclination  for  diversion. 

"Well,  then,  I  vv^ill  speak  to  you  as  to  a  tender,  affec- 
tionate, discreet  and  rational  son." 

"The  last  v/ill  suffice,  senor.    Proceed," 

"I  know  that  you  are  securely  anchored,"  continued  Don 
Candido,  of  whose  oratorical  style  circumlocution  and  a 
profuse  use  of  adjectives  were  the  distinguishing  char- 
actertistics. 

*T  do  not  understand  you." 

"I  mean  that  your  exalted  connections,  your  distinguished 
friends,  the  close  and  intimate  ties " 

"For  the  love  of  Heaven,  senor!  Believe  me,  there  are 
certain  situations  which  it  is  not  in  my  nature  to  endure 
for  any  length  of  time  with  patience.  What  is  it  you  wish 
to  say  to  me?" 

"I  was  coming  to  that.    You  have  many  acquaintances?" 

"A  great  many,  senor." 

"And  one  of  them  is  the  Chief  of  Pohce,  Don  Bernardo 
Victorica.     Is  it  not  so?" 

"It  is,  senor." 

"Then,  Daniel,  do  me ■" 

"What?" 

"Daniel,  by  the  first  copies  you  wrote,  which  I  corrected 
% 


118  AMALIA 

with  so  much  pleasure,  I  ask  you  to  have  me — are  we 
alone  ?" 

''Quite  alone,"  answered  Daniel,  somewhat  surprised  to 
see  that  Don  Candido  grew  paler  and  paler  as  he  went  on 
speaking. 

"Then,  dear  and  esteemed  Daniel,  have  me " 

"What?  in  the  name  of  all  the  saints  in  heaven?" 

"Have  me  put  in  prison,  Daniel,"  said  Don  Candido^ 
placing  his  mouth  close  to  the  ear  of  his  former  pupil,  who, 
turning  round  quickly,  fixed  his  eyes  intently  on  the  ex- 
schoolmaster's  face,  to  see  if  he  could  discover  in  it  any 
signs  of  insanity. 

"You  are  surprised?"  continued  Don  Candido.  "Never- 
theless I  ask  this  service  from  you,  as  the  most  precious, 
the  most  important  service  which  one  human  being  could 
render  another." 

"And  what  is  your  object  in  wishing  to  be  put  in  prison?" 
asked  Daniel,  who  had  been  unable  to  come  to  any  con- 
clusion calculated  to  reassure  him  regarding  the  mental 
condition  of  his  interlocutor. 

"What  is  my  object?  To  live  in  security,  in  tranquillity, 
in  peace,  until  the  frightful,  horrisonant  tempest  which 
threatens  us  passes  over." 

"The  tempest?" 

"Yes,  young  man.  You  know  nothing  yet  of  the  terrible 
and  sanguinary  revolutions  of  men,  and  above  all  of  the 
fatal  mistakes  which  may  be  made  in  them.  In  the  year 
*20,  that  terrible  year  in  which  everyone  in  Buenos  Ayres 
seemed  to  have  gone  mad,  I  was  imprisoned  twice  by  mis- 
take and  I  tremble  lest,  in  the  year  ^40,  when  they  all 
seem  to  have  become  demons,  they  should  cut  my  head 
off — by  mistake  also.  The  hour  has  not  yet  come,  but  the 
hour  is  at  hand " 


THE  MAN  WITH  THE  BAMBOO  CANE     119 

''And  what  makes  you  say  that  the  hour  is  at  hand?" 
asked  Daniel  who  began  to  perceive  that  there  might  be 
something  serious  in  Don  Candido's  idea. 

''Oh !  that  is  the  secret  which  I  have  carried  in  my  breast 
like  a  wheel  set  with  daggers,  since  four  o'clock  this 
morning." 

"Senor,  I  declare  to  you  frankly  that  if  you  do  not 
speak  to  me  clearly  and  without  secrets  in  your  breast,  I 
shall  not  be  able  to  understand  a  word  of  what  you  say, 
and  I  shall  have  the  pain  of  telling  you  that  I  have  some 
necessary  business  to  attend  to  at  this  moment." 

"No,  you  will  not  go.     Listen  to  me." 

"Well,  I  am  listening." 

Don  Candido  rose,  crossed  over  to  the  door  which  opened 
into  the  parlor,  looked  through  the  keyhole,  and  after  con- 
vincing himself  that  no  one  was  on  the  other  side  of  the 
door,  he  turned  to  Daniel  and  whispered  to  him  in  myste- 
rious accents: 

"La-Madrid  has  declared  against  Rosas !" 

Daniel  bounded  from  his  chair,  a  gleam  of  joy  shone 
in  his  countenance,  instantly  quenched  by  his  powerful  will, 
long  trained  to  repress  every  outward  expression  of 
emotion. 

"You  are  raving,  senor,"  he  answered,  quietly,  sitting 
down  again. 

"It  is  true,  Daniel,  as  true  as  that  we  are  now  conversing 
together  and  alone.    Is  it  not  true  that  we  are  alone?" 

"So  true  that  if  you  do  not  at  once  tell  me  all  that  you 
say  you  know,  I  shall  believe  that  you  think  me  still  a 
child  and  that  you  are  making  sport  of  me."  And  Daniel 
fixed  his  keen  and  sparkling  glance  on  the  countenance  of 
the  man  whose  most  secret  thoughts  he  was  about  to  probe. 

"Don't  get  angry,  my  dear  and  esteemed  Daniel.    Listen 


120  AMALIA 

to  me,  and  you  will  be  convinced  of  the  truth  of  what  I 
say.  You  know  that  when  I  gave  up  teaching  writing, 
four  years  ago,  I  retired  to  my  own  house  to  live  quietly 
on  the  interest  of  my  small  fortune.  And  to  attend  to  the 
house  and  to  my  wardrobe  I  retained  in  my  service  an 
elderly  woman — a  white  woman  of  the  coast;  an  excellent 
woman,  neat,  careful  to  a  fault,  economical " 

"But  senor,  what  has  this  woman  to  do  with  General 
La-Madrid?" 

**You  shall  hear.  This  woman  has  a  son  who,  ever  since 
he  was  ten  years  old,  has  been  at  work  in  Tucuman — an 
excellent  son;  he  never  neglects  to  send  a  part  of  his  earn- 
ings to  his  mother.  Having  told  you  this — .  Have  you 
comprehended  it  well?" 

**Too  well,  senor." 

"Let  us  proceed  then  to  what  relates  to  me.  ]\Iy  house 
has  a  door  opening  into  the  street.  Ah !  I  forgot  to  tell 
you  that  the  son  of  the  woman  who  serves  me,  came  from 
Tucuman  as  the  bearer  of  despatches,  in  the  middle  of  last 
year — do  you  understand?" 

*T  understand." 

"Good;  my  house,  then,  has  a  door  opening  into  the 
street,  and  my  servant's  room  a  window,  without  bars,  also 
opening  on  the  street.  During  these  last  few  months,  in 
which  everyone  in  Buenos  Ayres  has  been  living  in  constant 
terror,  sleep  has  fled  from  my  eyes  and  I  pass  the  night  in 
a  sort  of  nightmare.  I  used  to  join  a  card  party  in  the 
house  of  some  old  acquaintances,  honest,  worthy  people, 
who  never  speak  of  the  recondite  politics  of  our  adverse, 
unfortunate  and  calamitous  times;  but  I  do  not  go  there 
now  and  when  evening  comes  I  shut  myself  up  in  my 
house." 


THE  MAN  WITH  THE  BAMBOO  CANE     121 

"But,  good  Heavens!  senor,  what  has  the  card  party  to 

do  v/ith " 

*1  am  coming  to  that," 

'To  what?  to  the  card  party?" 

"No,  to  what  I  was  going  to  tell  you " 

"About  La-Madrid?" 

"Yes." 

"Thank  Heaven !" 

"At  four  o'clock  this  morning  I  was  lying  awake  as 
usual  when  suddenly  I  heard  a  horse  stop  outside  the  door, 
and  the  clanking  of  a  scabbard  told  plainly  that  the  man 
who  was  dismounting  was  an  officer  or  a  soldier.  I  am 
not  a  man  of  arms;  I  have  a  horror  of  bloodshed,  and  I 
will  frankly  confess  to  you  that  I  began  to  tremble  and 
a  cold  sweat  covered  me  from  head  to  foot ;  and  no  wonder, 
is  it  not  so?" 

"Proceed,  senor." 

"I  will  proceed.  I  sprang  out  of  bed  and  noiselessly 
opened  the  shutter  and  then  an  inch  of  the  window;  the 
night  was  dark,  but  I  saw  that  the  horseman  outside  was 
knocking  softly  at  the  window  of  my  servant  Nicolasa's 
room;  and  that  after  they  had  exchanged  a  few  words, 
which  I  did  not  catch,  the  window  was  opened  and  the  man 
entered  the  room.  My  ideas  became  confused,  my  head 
was  like  an  oven  and  believing  myself  betrayed,  without 
losing  an  instant  I  went  barefooted  as  I  was  into  the  yard 
and  looked  through  the  keyhole  of  Nicolasa's  room.  And 
vWiat  do  you  think  I  saw?" 

"Tell  me." 

"Nicolasa's  obedient  son  embracing  his  mother.  I  wished 
to  reassure  myself,  and  I  listened  attentively.  Nicolasa 
offered  to  make  him  up  a  bed,  but  he  said  that  he  had  to 


122  AMALIA 

return  immediately  to  the  Governor,  to  whom  he  had 
brought  letters  from  Tucuman,  which  he  had  just  delivered." 

"Go  on  and  forget  nothing,"  said  Daniel,  who  was  not 
now  annoyed  by  the  adjectives,  the  digressions,  or  the 
circumlocutions  of  Don  Candido. 

"He  told  her  that  the  letters  were  from  some  wealthy 
gentlemen  of  Tucuman,  probably  informing  the  Governor 
of  the  action  of  General  La-Madrid.  Nicolasa,  curious  and 
inquisitive  like  all  her  sex,  questioned  him  on  the  subject, 
and  the  son,  conjuring  her  to  observe  the  most  profound 
secrecy,  told  her  that  on  arriving  in  Tucuman  La-AIadrid 
had  declared  himself  openly  against  Rosas ;  that  the  people 
had  received  him  with  rejoicings,  and  that  the  Government 
had  appointed  him  General-in-Chief  of  all  the  troops  of  the 
line  and  the  militia  of  the  Province,  and  Colonel  Don 
Lorenzo  Lugones,  Chief-of-Staff.  Imagine,  my  son,  my 
state  of  mind  standing,  undressed  as  I  was,  at  Nicolasa's 
door!" 

"Yes,  yes,  go  on,"  said  Daniel,  without  showing  in  his 
countenance  the  slightest  mark  of  interest. 

"Why  proceed?  What  more  do  we  need  to  know?  The 
rest  was  all  about  feasts,  rejoicings,  and  military  move- 
ments in  the  provinces,  almost  all  of  them  against  Rosas." 

"But  he  may  have  mentioned  some  name,  some  event." 

"None.  He  was  hardly  ten  minutes  with  his  mother ;  he 
promised  to  return  to-day,  unless  he  should  be  sent  back 
to  Tucuman.    Oh !  I  am  going  to  tell  you  all  about  him " 

"How  old  is  this  man?" 

"He  is  young,  twenty-two  or  twenty-three,  at  the  most  ; 
tall,  fair,  with  an  aquiline  nose,  good-looking,  graceful, 
robust,  manly." 

"At  twenty-two  or  twenty-three  a  man  Is  rarely  bad.  A 
son  good  in  absence  must  have  a  good  heart.     He  could 


THE  MAN  WITH  THE  BAMBOO  CANE     123 

have  had  no  interest  In  deceiving  his  mother;  the  news 
then  must  be  true.  Divine  Providence!"  said  Daniel  to 
himself,  without  giving  any  heed  to  Don  Candido's  last 
adjectives. 

"Well,"  he  said  aloud,  "all  that  you  tell  me  about  General 
La-Madrid  may  be  quite  true,  but  I  don't  see  how  you 
are  affected." 

"Affected?  Let  me  be  frank;  you  can't  be  friendly  to 
the  Government;  you  can't  desire  disturbances  and  blood- 
shed.    Am  I  right?" 

"Seiior,  I  am  greatly  honored  in  receiving  your  con- 
fidences. Be  assured  of  my  silence  but  I  cannot  make  con- 
fidences regarding  my  political  opinions." 

"Well,  well,  that  is  prudent ;  but  I  know  what  I  am  talk- 
ing about.  This  affair  of  General  La-Madrid  will  enrage 
the  Governor;  his  sanguinary  fury  will  communicate  itself 
to  all  those  gentlemen  whom  neither  you  nor  I  have  the 
honor  of  knowing  and  who,  without  doubt,  are  the  emis- 
saries of  Satan.  The  threats  of  the  Gaceta  will  be  fulfilled: 
they  will  kill  right  and  left.  Although  I  am  innocent,  they 
may  kill  me,  if  only  through  mistake.  And  this  is  what 
must  be  prevented ;  this  is  what  you,  my  dear  and  esteemed 
Daniel,  must  prevent.'' 

"And  how?" 

"By  having  me  put  in  prison  on  some  civil  charge.  The 
prison  will  not  be  invaded,  and  even  if  it  were  there  would 
be  time  enough  for  the  alcalde  to  declare  the  cause  of  my 
imprisonment.  I  shall  live  as  contentedly  in  prison  as  I 
should  in  my  own  house  once  my  mind  is  at  rest.  The 
soldiers  will  not  frighten  me;  on  the  contrary,  they  will 
be  a  guarantee  against  the  assaults  of  the  Sociedad  Popular, 
and  especially  against  all  mistakes." 

"What  you  say  is  sheer  nonsense;  but  supposing  it  were 


124  AMALIA 

sense,  Don  Candido,  how  could  I  put  you  in  prison?  On 
what  pretext?" 

"Nothing  easier.  Go  at  once  to  Victorica  and  tell  him 
that  I  have  just  insulted  you  grossly  and  that  you  demand 
my  imprisonment;  they  will  arrest  me;  I  will  make  no 
protest;  and  there  I  am  in  prison,  until  I  ask  you  to  take 
me  out  of  it." 

"But,  senor,  it  is  not  the  custom  in  Buenos  Ayres  for 
a  grown  man  to  complain  to  the  authorities  when  he  re- 
ceives a  personal  insult.  However,  your  situation  interests 
me,''  continued  Daniel,  perceiving  that  use  might  be  made 
of  this  coward  who  would  do  whatever  he  was  told  for 
the  assurance  of  protection  from  imaginary  danger. 

"Ah !  I  knew  you  vv^ould  help  me ;  you  are  the  noblest, 
the  best,  the  most  feeling  of  all  my  pupils.  You  will 
save  me?" 

"I  think  so.  Would  you  be  satisfied  with  a  situation 
under  an  undoubted  Federalist?" 

"The  very  height  of  my  ambition !  I  have  never  been  an 
employee,  but  I  will  become  one;  an  employee  without 
salary.  I  cede  all  my  emoluments  for  whatever  object  my 
noble  and  distinguished  patron  may  designate,  and  express 
for  him  my  heart-felt,  profound  and  loyal  respect.  You 
have  saved  me,  Daniel." 

And  Don  Candido  rose  and  embraced  his  pupil  with  an 
effusiveness  which  he  himself  would  have  called  enthu- 
siastic, ardent,  spontaneous  and  sympathetic. 

"Go  home  with  an  easy  mind,  Don  Candido,  and  be  sure 
to  return  to-morrow." 

"Without  fail !  without  fail !" 

"But  not  at  six  in  the  morning,  you  understand." 

"No,  I  will  come  at  seven." 

"Nor  at  seven.     Come  at  ten." 


THE  MAN  WITH  THE  BAMBOO  CANE     U5 

"Very  well,  I  will  come  at  ten;  I  will  be  exact  and 
punctual  at  the  rendezvous." 

"One  word  more ;  observe  the  most  profound  silence  with 
regard  to  the  affair  of  General  La-Madrid." 

"I  have  resolved  not  to  close  my  eyes  to-night  lest  I 
should  talk  of  it  in  my  sleep.  I  swear  it  to  you  on  the 
faith  of  an  honorable  and  peaceable  citizen.'* 

"No  oaths,  senor;  and  good-bye  until  to-morrow,"  said 
Daniel,  smiling  and  shaking  hands  with  his  master. 

"Good-bye  until  to-morrow,  my  dear  and  esteemed 
Daniel,  the  best  and  most  generous  of  all  my  pupils.  Good- 
bye until  to-morrow." 

And  Don  Candido  Rodriguez  left  Daniel's  house  holding 
his  bamboo  cane  under  his  arm  and  with  a  mind  compara- 
tively at  rest;  for  before  many  hours  were  over  he  should 
be  employed  in  the  service  of  a  great  personage  of  the 
Federation. 

"It  is  twelve  o'clock,  Fermin.  Quick,  a  coat  of  some 
kind,"  said  Daniel  to  Fermin,  who  at  this  moment  entered. 

"There  is  a  messenger  outside  from  Colonel  Salomon," 
said  Fermin, 

"With  a  letter?" 

"No,  senor,  Colonel  Salomon  sends  to  tell  you  that  he 
does  not  write,  but  that  the  Society  will  meet  to-day  at  four 
o'clock  and  that  he  will  expect  you  at  half-past  three." 

"Very  well;  help  me  to  dress." 


CHAPTER  XI 


FLORENCIA    AND    DANIEL 


It  wanted  but  a  few  minutes  to  two  by  the  great  clock 
of  the  Town  Hall,  when  Daniel  Bello  left  the  house  of 
Don  Felipe  Arana,  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs,  in  the 
Calle  de  Representantes. 

Daniel  had  gained  nothing  by  his  visit  to  the  minister, 
as  far  as  his  friend  Eduardo  was  concerned,  or  rather  he 
had  gained  a  great  deal  in  satisfaction,  for  he  found  that 
Minister  Arana  had  learned  little  of  the  affray  in  the  Bajo 
de  la  Residencia. 

He  should  hear  himself,  then,  from  Florencia,  to  whose 
house  in  the  Calle  de  la  Reconquista  he  now  bent  his  steps, 
the  reports  of  Dona  Agustina  Rosas  de  Mancilla  and  Dona 
Maria  Josefa  Ezcurra,  whose  version  would  come  directly 
from  the  house  of  Rosas.  And  how  well — or  how  ill-in- 
formed were  the  Sociedad  Popular  and  its  president  re- 
garding the  occurrences,  he  would  hear  later. 

To  his  great  relief  Don  Felipe  Arana,  who  had  much 
respect  for  the  abilities  of  Daniel,  had  consented  with 
characteristic  simplicity  to  accept  the  young  man's  advice. 

Arrived  at  Florencia's  house  Daniel  entered  it  and  pro- 
ceeded unannounced  to  the  salon. 

Standing  beside  a  table,  her  eyes  fixed  on  the  flowers 
contained  in  an  exquisite  porcelain  vase,  Florencia  neither 
saw  the  flowers  nor  perceived  their  fragrance. 

So  complete  was  her  abstraction  that  she  became  aware 

126 


FLORENCIA  AND  DANIEL  127 

of  the  presence  of  someone  else  in  the  room  only  when 
a  kiss  pressed  on  her  left  hand  startled  her  from  her  brood- 
ing melancholy. 

''Daniel!"  exclaimed  the  young  girl,  turning  to  him 
quickly  and  as  quickly  drawing  back. 

"Seilor,  mamma  is  not  at  home,"  she  added,  in  calm  and 
dignified  tones. 

"Mamma  is  not  at  home!  senor!"  repeated  Daniel. 
"Florencia,  I  declare  upon  my  honor  I  do  not  understand 
either  your  words  or  your  manner." 

"I  mean  that  I  am  alone  and  that  I  expect  you  to  treat 
me  with  all  the  respect  due  to  a  young  lady." 

Daniel  reddened  to  the  roots  of  his  hair. 

"Florencia,  have  I  lost  my  senses?" 

"Your  senses,  no,  but  you  have  lost  something  else." 

"Something  else?" 

"Yes." 

"And  what  is  that,  Florencia?" 

"My  esteem,  senor." 

"Your  esteem,  I  ?" 

"But  of  what  consequence  to  you  is  either  my  esteem 
or  my  affection." 

"Florencia !"  exclaimed  Daniel,  taking  a  step  toward  her. 

"Stop,  sefior !"  cried  the  young  girl  extending  her  hand 
with  a  gesture  so  full  of  dignity  and  resolution  that  Daniel 
remained  motionless. 

The  lovers  stood  looking  at  each  other  in  silence,  each 
waiting  an  explanation  from  the  other. 

"I  think,"  said  Daniel,  at  last,  "that  if  I  have  lost  your 
esteem  I  have  the  right  to  ask  you  the  cause  of  that 
misfortune." 

"And  I,  seiior,  have  the  right  to  refuse  to  answer," 
responded   Florencia,   haughtily. 


128  AMALIA 

"Florencia!"  exclaimed  Daniel  in  an  angry  voice,  "all 
this  is  horribly  unjust,  and  I  demand  an  explanation.'' 

"Ah !  now  you  demand  ?  That  is  another  question,"  said 
Florencia,  measuring  Daniel  with  a  contemptuous  glance 
from  head  to  foot. 

His  self-esteem,  his  honor,  his  loyalty,  protested. 

"I  demand,  or  I  ask,  as  you  choose,  but,  do  you  under- 
stand, senorita,  I  will  have  an  explanation  of  this  scene/' 
he  returned. 

"Be  calm,  senor,  be  calm;  you  should  not  tire  your  voice 
by  raising  it  so  much.    You  are  speaking  to  a  woman." 

Daniel  trembled. 

"My  God!  I  am  mad,  I  must  be  mad!"  he  exclaimed. 
"Florencia,  your  behavior  is  unjust,  unparalleled;  v/ill  you 
deny  me  an  explanation  ?" 

"An  explanation!  And  of  what,  seiior?  Of  my  unjust 
behavior  ?" 

"Yes." 

"Bah!  It  is  folly  to  ask  that.  In  these  times  no  one 
thinks  of  asking  an  explanation  of  injustice." 

"In  political  matters,  yes — that  may  be  very  true,  but  we 
are  not  discussing  politics." 

"You  are  mistaken." 

"I  am  mistaken!" 

"Yes,  with  me  they  are  the  only  matters  which  it  suits 
you  to  treat  of;  the  only  ones  for  which  you  have  need 
of  me." 

Daniel  understood  that  she  was  referring  to  the  service 
he  had  asked  of  her. 

"I  supposed,"  he  said,  coldly,  "that  Sefiorita  Florencia 
Dupasquier  cared  enough  for  Daniel  Bello  to  take  a  little 
trouble  on  his  account  if  the  lives  of  his  friends,  his  own 
life,  perhaps,  were  threatened." 


FLORENCIA  AND  DANIEL  129 

"Senorita  Dupasquier  knows  perfectly  well  that  if  any 
danger  threatens  Seiior  Bello,  he  will  not  be  without  a 
safe  and  happy  retreat  in  which  he  can  conceal  himself 
and  escape  it." 

"I !  a  happy  retreat  in  which  I  can  conceal  myself,"  re- 
peated Daniel,  more  and  more  bewildered. 

'That  is  what  I  have  said,  a  happy  retreat,  a  grotto  of 
Armida,  an  island  of  Calypso,  a  fairy  palace.  Do  you  not 
know  where  it  is,  Senor  Bello?" 

'This  is  unendurable." 

"On  the  contrary,  it  is  delightful." 

**ln  the  name  of  Heaven,  or  of  hell,  where  is  this 
retreat?" 

''In  Barracas,  for  instance." 

"In  Barracas!"  exclaimed  Daniel  taking  a  few  hurried 
steps  toward  Florencia. 

"Well,  would  you  not  be  happy  there?"  said  the  young 
girl,  facing  Daniel.  "Besides,"  she  went  on,  with  a  nod 
and  a  disdainful  smile,  "you  would  take  good  care  not  to 
allow  yourself  to  be  wounded — especially  in  the  thigh,  with 
an  enormous  saber." 

"My  God !  they  are  lost !"  exclaimed  Daniel,  covering  his 
face  with  his  hands. 

There  was  a  moment's  silence;  then,  without  giving 
Florencia  time  to  avoid  him,  Daniel  threw  himself  at  her 
feet  and  clasped  his  arms  around  her. 

"In  the  name  of  Heaven,  Florencia,"  he  cried,  raising 
an  ashen  face  to  hers,  "in  your  own  name,  you,  who  are 
my  heaven,  my  God,  my  all  on  earth,  explain  to  me  the 
meaning  of  your  words.  I  love  you.  You  are  my  first, 
my  only  love.  There  is  not  a  woman  on  earth  more  dearly 
loved.  But  God  knows  it  is  not  love  that  should  occupy 
us  now  when  death  is  impending  over  so  many  innocent 


130  AIMALIA 

heads,  perhaps  mine  among  them,  soul  of  my  soul!  It 
is  not  even  my  own  life  that  concerns  me,  no;  I  have  risked 
that  every  hour,  every  minute  of  the  day;  it  is  the  life 
of — .  Listen,  Florencia,  for  your  soul  and  mine  are  one, 
and  I  confide  my  secrets  to  you  as  I  would  to  God ;  listen — 
it  is  Eduardo's  life  and  the  life  of  Amalia  that  are  now 
in  danger;  but  the  dagger  that  pierces  Eduardo's  breast 
will  pierce  mine  too." 

"Daniel !"  cried  Florencia,  bending  over  her  lover. 
Sincerity,  passion,  truth,  were  reflected  in  his  countenance 
and  his  words. 

*'Yes,"  he  continued,  still  clasping  Florencia's  waist, 
''Eduardo  was  marked  for  assassination  last  night;  I  saved 
him,  but  dying,  I  feared.  I  had  to  conceal  him,  for  the 
assassins  were  Rosas'  men.  But  neither  his  house  nor 
mine  was  safe.'' 

^'Eduardo  assassinated!  My  God!  But  he  will  not  die, 
say  he  will  not  die!" 

"No,  he  is  saved.  I  took  him  to  the  house  of  Amalia — 
Amalia,  who  is  the  only  member  of  my  mother's  family 
left  me.  Amalia,  the  woman  whom,  next  to'  you,  I  love 
best  in  the  world,  as  one  loves  a  sister.  Great  God!  I 
may  have  precipitated  her  ruin,  Amalia's,  who  was  so  tran- 
quil and  happy." 

"Her  ruin!   But  why,  Daniel?  Why?" 

She  shook  him  by  the  shoulders  for  his  pallor  filled  her 
heart  with  terror. 

"Because  to  Rosas  mercy  is  a  crime.  Eduardo  is  in  Bar- 
racas,  and  you  mentioned  Barracas;  Eduardo  is  wounded 
in  the  left  thigh,  and " 

"They  know  nothing,  they  know  nothing!"  cried  Floren- 
cia; "they  know  nothing,  but  they  may  learn  everything. 
Listen!" 


FLORENCIA  AND  DANIEL  131 

She  made  her  lover  rise,  and  drawing  him  to  a  chair 
repeated  briefly  her  conversation  with  Dona  Maria  Josefa. 

Daniel  heard  her  to  the  end  without  interruption. 

"Wretches!"  he  exclaimed  when  she  paused.  "It  is  a 
brood  of  demons.  Venom,  not  blood,  flows  in  their  veins, 
and  when  the  dagger  fails  they  slay  honor  with  their 
breath !  Vile  woman !  to  take  pleasure  in  torturing  the  heart 
of  a  child.  Florencia,  it  would  be  an  insult  to  you  to 
suppose  that  you  could  believe  her  instead  of  me.  She 
tortured  you  with  calumny.  Do  you  doubt  me  now, 
Florencia  ?" 

"No,  but  I  wish  to  see  Amalia  with  my  own  eyes." 

"You  shall." 

"I  wish  to  see  her  often." 

"Very  well." 

"At  once " 

"Very  well;  is  there  anything  more  you  wish?"  asked 
Daniel  gravely. 

"Nothing  more,"  answered  Florencia,  holding  out  her 
hand,  to  Daniel,  who  took  it  in  both  of  his.  "Go,  and  take 
care  of  Eduardo;  that  is  all  I  have  to  say  to  you  now." 


CHAPTER  XII 


PRESIDENT  SALOMON 


Facing  the  side  wall  of  the  little  church  of  San  Nicolas, 
at  the  intersection  of  the  Calle  de  Corrientes  and  the  Calle 
del  Cerrito,  there  stood,  at  the  time  of  our  story,  an  old 
house,  with  small,  projecting  windows  and  a  street  door 
with  a  wooden  threshold  a  foot  and  a  half  above  the  level 
of  the  ground.  The  street  outside  this  house,  which  was 
that  of  Don  Julian  Gonzalez  Salomon,  President  of  the 
Sociedad  Popular  Restauradora,  Colonel  of  Militia,  and 
grocer  by  occupation,  was  obstructed  for  the  length  of  the 
block,  at  four  o'clock  on  the  afternoon  of  the  same  day  on 
which  the  events  already  related  took  place,  by  horses  wear- 
ing the  Federal  colors;  bright  red  saddle-cloths,  headpieces 
of  pink  feathers  or  wool,  and  cruppers  with  tassels  of  the 
same  color,  while  their  headstalls,  reins  and  bridles  glittered 
vnth  silver. 

The  parlor  of  Colonel  Salomon's  house  was  crowded 
with  the  riders  of  these  horses,  all  of  them  dressed  alike 
in  the  principal  parts  of  their  attire,  that  is  to  say,  all 
wearing  a  black  hat  adorned  with  a  red  band  four  inches 
in  width,  a  dark  blue  jacket  with  its  corresponding  badge 
half  a  yard  in  length,  a  red  waistcoat,  and  an  enormous 
dagger  at  the  waist.  And,  like  their  dress,  the  faces  of 
these  men  seemed  to  be  in  uniform — a  heavy  mustache, 
whiskers  ending  at  the  chin,  and  an  expression  such  as 
is  to  be  met  with  only  in  the  calamitous  times  of  popular 

132 


PRESIDENT  SALOMON  133 

revolutions,  and  which  one  does  not  remember  ever  having 
seen  at  any  other  time  in  any  part  of  the  world. 

Sitting,  some  on  the  wooden  and  cane  chairs  that  stood 
in  disorder  around  the  room,  others  in  the  window  seats 
and  others  on  the  pine  table  covered  with  a  red  baize  cloth, 
on  which  President  Salomon  was  accustomed  to  write  his 
signature,  previously  sending  to  the  grocery  contiguous  to 
his  house,  for  a  pomade  pot  which  there  served  as  an  ink- 
stand, each  of  these  gentlemen  was  a  tobacco  censer  send- 
ing forth  dense  clouds  of  smoke  through  which  could  be 
discerned  their  sunburned  and  repulsive  faces.  But  their 
illustrious  president  was  not  among  them.  He  was  in  the 
room  adjoining  the  parlor,  seated  at  the  foot  of  a  large 
cot  which  served  him  as  a  bed,  learning  by  heart  a  short 
address  which  a  man  who  was  his  complete  antithesis  in 
mind  and  person  was  repeating  to  him  for  the  twentieth 
time.  This  man  was  Daniel,  and  their  conversation  was  as 
follows : 

*'Do  you  think  I  know  it  now?" 

''Perfectly,  Colonel.     You  have  a  prodigious  memory." 

"But  see — do  me  the  favor  to  sit  beside  me  and  if  I 
should  forget  the  v/ords  whisper  them  to  me  softly." 

*T  was  just  going  to  suggest  that  very  thing.  But  re- 
member on  your  side.  Colonel,  that  you  are  to  present  me 
to  our  friends  and  to  tell  them  what  I  have  told  you." 

'T  v/ill  take  care  of  that.    Let  us  go  in  now." 

''Wait  a  moment.  As  soon  as  you  take  your  seat,  have 
the  secretary  read  the  list  of  those  present;  for  it  is  neces- 
sary. Colonel,  that  we  should  proceed  with  the  same  order 
in  our  Federal  Society  as  they  do  in  the  Chamber  of  Repre- 
sentatives." 

"I  have  already  told  Boneo  to  do  so,  but  he  is  a  lazy 
fellow  who  can  do  nothing  but  talk." 


134  AMALIA 

"No  matter;  tell  him  again,  and  he  will  do  it." 

*'Very  well ;  let  us  go  in  now." 

And  President  Salomon  and  Daniel  Bello,  the  latter 
attired  in  a  black  coat  and  wearing  a  long  Federal  badge, 
entered  the  assembly-room. 

"Good-afternoon,  gentlemen,"  said  Salomon,  in  the  most 
serious  and  dignified  tone  imaginable,  walking  toward  the 
chair  that  stood  before  the  pine  table. 

"Good  afternoon.  President,  Colonel,  gossip,  etc.,"  an- 
swered each  of  those  present,  according  to  the  title  which 
he  was  accustomed  to  give  Don  Julian  Salomon,  all  at  the 
same  time  glancing  keenly  at  the  man  who  accompanied 
the  president,  from  whose  dress  they  missed  the  principal 
Federal  attributes  and  whose  face  and  hands  they  thought, 
besides,  too  refined  in  appearance. 

"Gentlemen,"  said  Salomon,  "this  gentleman  is  Don 
Daniel  Bello,  son  of  Don  Antonio  Bello,  the  planter,  a 
Federal  patriot  to  whom  I  am  indebted  for  many  favors. 
The  gentleman,  who  is  as  good  a  Federal  as  his  father, 
desires  to  join  our  society  and  is  only  waiting  for  the 
arrival  of  his  father  in  the  city  to  do  so,  but  meantime, 
he  wishes  to  come  occasionally  to  participate  in  our  Federal 
enthusiasm.  Long  live  the  Federation!  Long  live  the 
Illustrious  Restorer  of  the  Laws !  Death  to  the  filthy  and 
loathsome  French !  Death  to  the  swineherd  Louis  Philippe ! 
Death  to  the  filthy  Unitarian  savages  bought  by  filthy 
French  gold!    Death  to  the  turncoat  Rivera!" 

And  these  exclamations,  uttered  in  a  voice  of  thunder 
by  President  Salomon,  were  repeated  in  chorus  by  all 
present  who,  while  they  shouted,  brandished  above  their 
heads  the  daggers  which  they  had  unsheathed  at  the  first 
cry  of  their  president. 


PRESIDENT  SALOMON  «      135 

When  the  storm  had  subsided,  Salomon  sat  down,  his 
secretary  Boneo  on  his  left  hand,  and  Daniel  on  his  right. 

''Seiior  Secretary,"  Salomon  then  said,  throwing  himself 
back  in  his  chair,  "read  the  hst  of  those  present." 

Boneo  took  from  some  papers  that  were  lying  on  the 
table  the  one  nearest  to  him,  and  read  aloud  the  following 
names  which  he  had  just  written  down  in  pencil: 

'Tresent:  the  Senor  President,  Seiiores  Cuitino,  Parra, 
Parra,  jr.,  Maestre,  Alen,  Alvarado,  Moreno,  Gaetano, 
Larrazabal,  Merlo,  Moreira,  Diaz,  Amoroso,  Viera,  Amores, 
Maciel,  Romero,  Boneo." 

*'Are  those  all?"  asked  Salomon. 

''Those  are  all  the  memibers  present." 

"Read  the  list  of  the  absent  members." 

"Of  the  whole  Society?" 

"Yes,  certainly.  Are  we  of  less  consequence  than  the 
representatives?  We  are  as  good  Federals  as  they  are  and 
we  ought  to  know  who  are  present  and  who  are  absent, 
as  they  do  in  the  Chamber  of  Representatives.  Read  the 
list." 

"Absent  members,"  began  Boneo;  and  he  proceeded  to 
read  the  names  of  the  remaining  members  of  the  Sociedad 
Popular  Restauradora,  which  consisted  of  175  individuals 
of  all  classes  of  society. 

"Bravo !  Now  we  all  know  one  another ;  although  some 
of  the  names  in  that  list  may  be  there  through  compulsion," 
said  Daniel  to  himself,  when  the  secretary  had  finished 
reading  the  names  of  the  members ;  and  he  gave  Salomon's 
wide  trousers  a  gentle  pull. 

"Gentlemen,"  then  said  the  President  of  the  Sociedad 
Popular,  "the  Illustrious  Restorer  of  the  Laws  is  the 
Federation;  we  ought  therefore  to  be  ready  to  sacrifice 


136  AMALIA 

our  lives  for  our  Illustrious  Restorer,  for  we  are  the  pillars 
of  the  holy  cause  of  the  Federation." 

*'Long-  live  the  Illustrious  Restorer  of  the  Laws !"  cried 
one  of  the  members  whose  words  all  the  others  echoed  in 
chorus. 

"Long  live  his  illustrious  daughter,  Senorita  Manuelita 
de  Rosas  y  Ezcurra !" 

''Long  live  the  Hero  of  the  Desert,  the  Restorer  of  the 
Laws,  our  Father  and  the  Father  of  the  Federation." 

''Death  to  the  filthy  French  and  the  swineherd  King!" 

"Gentlemen,"  continued  the  president,  "in  order  that  our 
Illustrious  Restorer  may  be  able  to  save  the  Federation 
from — may  be  able  to  save  the  Federation  from^ — in  order 
that  our  Illustrious  Restorer  may  be  able  to  save  the 
Federation  from " 

"From  the  imminent  danger,"  whispered  Daniel,  almost 
in  his  ear. 

"From  the  imminent  danger  which  threatens  it,  we  must 
pursue  the  Unitarians  to  the  death,  so  that  every  Unitarian 
must  be  pursued  by  us  to  the  death." 

"Death  to  the  filthy,  disgusting  Unitarian  savages!" 
shouted  another  member  of  the  Society,  named  Juan  Manuel 
Larrazabal,  v^hose  words  were  repeated  in  chorus  by  all 
the  other  members,  dagger  in  hand. 

"Gentlemen,  we  must  pursue  them  all  without  pity." 

"Both  men  and  women,"  shouted  Juan  Manuel  Lar- 
razabal, who  appeared  to  be  the  most  enthusiastic  of  the 
assembled  members. 

"Our  Illustrious  Restorer  is  not  satisfied  with  us,  because 
we  do  not  serve  him  as  we  ought,"  continued  Salomon. 

"Now  comes  in  the  occurrence  of  last  night,"  whispered 
Daniel  to  the  president  behind  his  handkerchief,  with  which 
he  pretended  to  be  wiping  his  face. 


PRESIDENT  SALOMON  137 

"Now  comes  in  the  occurrence  of  last  night,"  repeated 
Salomon  as  if  this  reminder  were  a  part  of  his  discourse. 

Daniel  gave  the  president's  trousers  a  vigorous  pull. 

"Gentlemen,"  continued  Salomon,  ''we  are  all  aware  that 
a  number  of  Unitarian  savages  attempted  to  fly  the  country 
last  night  and  that  they  did  not  all  succeed  in  doing  so 
because  Commandant  Cuitino  behaved  like  a  good  Federal. 
One  however,  escaped  and  is  now  in  hiding;  and  the  'same 
thing  must  continue  to  happen  every  day  unless  we  act 
like  defenders  of  the  sacred  cause  of  the  Federation.  I 
have  called  you  together  in  order  that  we  may  once  more 
swear  to  pursue  the  filthy  Unitarian  savages  who  attempt 
to  escape  to  Montevideo  to  join  the  turncoat  Rivera  and 
sell  themselves  for  filthy  French  gold.  This  is  v/hat  our 
Illustrious  Restorer  of  the  Laws  desires!  I  have  ended, 
and  long  live  the  Illustrious  Restorer  of  the  Laws  and 
death  to  all  the  enemies  of  the  holy  cause  of  the 
Federation !" 

"Death  by  the  dagger  to  the  filthy  Unitarian  savages!" 
cried  another  enthusiastic  Federal,  and  this  cry  and  all  the 
usual  ones  were  repeated  for  fully  ten  minutes,  not  only 
in  the  parlor  but  also  in  the  street,  where  a  crowd  as  en- 
thusiastic and  respectable  as  that  which  was  shouting  and 
yelling  in  Colonel  Salomon's  house  had  gathered  around 
the  windows. 

The  storm  of  cries  and  yells  having  at  last  subsided 
Daniel  asked  the  president  v/ith  the  most  self-possessed  air 
in  the  v/orld  for  permission  to  speak,  which  being  granted, 
he  said: 

"Gentlemen :  I  have  not  yet  the  honor  of  belonging  to  this 
illustrious  and  patriotic  Society,  although  I  hope  shortly  to 
join  it;  but  my  opinions  and  my  associations  are  known 
to  everyone,  and  I  hope  in  time  to  be  able  to  lend  the 


138  AMALIA 

Federation  and  the  Illustrious  Restorer  of  the  Laws  services 
as  important  as  those  rendered  them  by  the  members  of 
the  Sociedad  Popular  Restauradora,  which  is  now  famous 
not  only  in  the  Republic  but  throughout  America." 

Fresh  applause  and  fresh  cries  greeted  this  flattering 
exordium. 

"But,  gentlemen,"  continued  Daniel,  ''it  is  to  the  mem- 
bers now  present  that  I  must  offer  the  congratulations 
which  every  good  Federal  owes  them;  for  while  I  do  not 
wish  to  deny  the  zeal  of  the  other  members  for  our  holy 
cause  I  see  that  it  is  you  who  come  forward  to  support 
the  Illustrious  Restorer  of  the  Laws,  while  the  others 
absent  themselves  from  the  Federal  meetings.  The  Federa- 
tion recognizes  no  privileged  class.  Lawyers,  merchants, 
employees,  we  are  all  equal  here,  and  whenever  a  meeting 
is  held,  whenever  there  is  anything  to  be  done  for  the 
advantage  of  his  Excellency  or  wherever  danger  threatens, 
all  should  assemble  at  the  call  of  the  president,  instead 
of  leaving  the  labor  and  the  risk  to  a  few.  They  may  all 
be  very  good  Federals,  but  it  seems  to  me  that  those  who 
are  here  this  afternoon  are  not  Unitarians,  that  the  others 
should  disdain  to  assemble  with  them.  I  say  this  because 
I  think  such  must  be  the  opinion  of  his  Excellency  the 
Illustrious  Restorer,  which  we  should  cause  to  be  more 
respected  for  the  future." 

Daniel  did  not  fail  in  his  purpose.  The  enthusiasm 
produced  by  this  discourse  surpassed  his  utmost  expecta- 
tions. All  the  members  of  the  Society  who  were  present 
shouted,  swore  and  blasphemed  against  those  who  had 
absented  themselves  from  the  meeting  and  whose  names  the 
secretary,  Boneo,  had  read.  Names  of  absent  members  be- 
gan to  circulate,  not  now  as  such,  but  as  Unitarians  in 


PRESIDENT  SALOMON  139 

disguise;  and  Daniel  nodded  a  malicious  approval  of  these 
demonstrations,  saying  to  himself : 

**So,  so;  I  will  set  you  against  one  another  still  more 
in  the  future,  my  bloodhounds,  so  that  you  may  yourselves 
destroy  one  another." 

President  Salomon  again  addressed  the  meeting,  urging 
all  to  v^atch  the  Unitarians  closely,  and  especially  to  watch 
those  points  on  the  coast  at  which  it  was  probable  they 
would  attempt  to  embark;  and  after  fresh  manifestations 
of  enthusiasm  and  fresh  cries,  he  declared  the  session 
closed  at  half-past  five  o'clock. 

Daniel  left  the  house  of  President  Salomon  well  pleased 
— they  knew  nothing  about  Eduardo.  At  the  corner  of 
the  Calle  de  Cuyo  he  found  Fermin  w^aiting  for  him,  hold- 
ing his  horse  by  the  bridle.  The  street  was  full  of  people 
and  without  looking  at  his  servant  Daniel  said  to  him  as 
he  mounted: 

"At  nine." 

"At  the  appointed  place?" 

"Yes." 

"And  turning  his  horse's  head  in  the  direction  of  Bar- 
racas,  Daniel  rode  at  a  quick  pace  across  the  Plaza  de  las 
Artes,  and  down  the  Calle  del  Buen  Order,  reaching  the 
Barranca  de  Balcarce  as  the  last  rays  of  the  setting  sun 
were  fading  in  the  sky.  As  he  was  about  to  descend  the 
barranca  he  heard  a  voice  behind  him  calling  him  by  name ; 
and  turning  his  horse  around  he  sav/,  twenty  paces  away, 
running  after  him,  visibly  exhausted  and  panting  for  breath, 
his  worthy  writing  master,  holding  his  bamboo  cane  in  one 
hand  and  his  hat  in  the  other.  Coming  up  with  Daniel, 
he  caught  hold  of  his  pupil  by  the  thigh,  to  which  he 
clung  in  silence  for  two  or  three  minutes,  unable  to  recover 
his  breath  sufficiently  to  speak. 


140  AMALIA 

"What  is  the  matter,  what  has  happened,  Senor  Don 
Candido?"  asked  Daniel  at  last,  alarmed  at  the  ex-school- 
master's pallor. 

"Something  horrible,  barbarous,  atrocious,  unparalleled 
in  the  annals  of  crime." 

"We  are  in  a  public  road,  senor;  say  what  you  have  to 
say,  but  let  it  be  without  delay." 

"Do  you  remember  my  old  and  industrious  servant's 
noble  and  generous  son?" 

"Yes." 

"Do  you  remember  that  he  came  to  my  house  last  night 
and " 

"Yes,  yes,  what  has  happened  to  him?" 

"They  have  shot  him,  my  dear  and  esteemed  Daniel, 
they  have  shot  him." 

"When  did  they  shoot  him  ?" 

"At  seven  o'clock  this  morning;  they  were  on  the  watch 
for  him  when  he  left  the  Governor's  house  last  night.  They 
were  doubtless  afraid " 

"That  he  would  reveal  or  that  he  had  already  revealed 
what  he  knew;  I  will  spare  you  the  words." 

"But  I  am  lost,  doomed.  What  shall  I  do,  my  dear 
Daniel,  what  shall  I  do  ?" 

"Get  your  pens  ready  to  enter  to-morrow  upon  your 
duties  as  private  amanuensis  of  the  Minister  of  Foreign 
Affairs." 

"I,  Daniel?"  And  in  an  ecstasy  of  joy  Don  Candido 
covered  his  pupil's  hand  with  kisses. 

"Now  take  any  other  road  but  the  one  you  came  by  and 
return  home." 

"I  will.  I  arrived  at  your  house  just  as  Fermin  was 
leaving  it  with  your  horse :  I  followed  him ;  then  I  followed 
you,  and " 


PRESIDENT  SALOMON  141 

"Very  well;  one  thing  more — have  you  any  intimate 
friend,  man  or  woman,  at  whose  house  you  occasionally 
spend  the  night?" 

"Yes." 

"Go  at  once,  then,  and  settle  it  with  that  person  that 
you  spent  last  night  in  his  company,  so  as  to  be  prepared 
for  anything  that  may  happen.     Good-bye,  senor." 

And  Daniel  put  spurs  to  his  horse,  and  at  the  risk  of  a 
dangerous  fall,  galloped  down  the  Barranca  de  Balcarce 
and  entered  the  Calle  Larga,  dark  already  from  the  shadows 
cast  by  the  houses  and  the  trees,  on  whose  tops  the  last 
gleams  of  the  setting  sun  were  fading. 

This  was  the  same  road  which  he  had  traversed  eighteen 
hours  before,  carrying  the  almost  lifeless  body  of  his  friend, 
and  it  was  to  Amalia's  house,  in  which  Eduardo  had  re- 
ceived hospitality  and  been  restored  to  Hfe,  that  Daniel 
was  now  directing  his  course. 


CHAPTER  XIII 


THE   WHITE   ROSE 


We  will  now  ask  the  reader  to  accompany  us  to  the 
villa  at  Barracas,  where,  on  the  morning  of  the  24th  of 
May,  twenty  days  after  the  day  on  which  we  first  entered 
it,  Amalia  and  Eduardo  are  sitting  side  by  side  upon  a 
sofa  in  the  salon  conversing  together,  the  former  with 
heightened  color,  her  eyes  fixed  on  a  beautiful  white  rose 
which  she  holds  in  her  hand,  the  latter,  pale  as  marble, 
with  purple  shadows  under  his  large  melancholy  black  eyes 
— his  eyes,  his  hair  and  his  beard  seeming  blacker  from 
the  contrast  which  they  present  to  the  pallor  of  his 
countenance. 

But  before  following  them  in  their  conversation  we  will 
acquaint  the  reader  in  a  few  words  with  the  chief  facts 
of  Amalia's  history,  up  to  the  period  at  which  our  story 
opens. 

Born  in  the  province  of  Tucuman  she  had  lost  her  father 
at  the  age  of  six,  and  at  seventeen,  in  accordance  with  the 
wishes  of  her  mother,  who  desired  to  give  her  a  protector, 
she  had  married  Sefior  Olabarrieta,  an  old  friend  of  the 
family,  who  left  her  a  widow  within  a  year  after  their 
marriage.  Three  months  afterward  her  mother  died.  Left 
alone  in  her  native  place,  where  everything  served  to  re- 
mind her  of  her  losses,  she  resolved  to  abandon  it  forever 
and  established  herself  permanently  in  the  city  of  Buenos 
Ayres,  to  which  her  mother's  family  had  belonged;  and 

142 


THE  WHITE  ROSE  143 

here  she  had  been  living  for  eight  months,  tranquil,  if  not 
happy,  when  the  events  of  the  night  of  the  4th  of  May 
made  us  "acquainted  with  her. 

"Well,  seiiora?"  Eduardo  was  saying. 

''Well,  sefior,  you  do  not  know  me,  you  confound  me 
with  the  generality  of  my  sex,  if  you  think  that  my  lips 
could  utter  v/hat  my  heart  did  not  feel,  or  rather,  for  w^e 
are  not  now  speaking  of  the  heart,  what  I  did  not  really 
mean.'* 

"But,  senora,  I  ought  not '' 

"I  am  not  speaking  of  what  you  ought  not  to  do,"  in- 
terrupted Amalia,  with  an  enchanting  smile,  "I  am  speaking 
of  what  I  ought  to  do.  I  have  fulfilled  toward  you  a 
sacred  obligation,  imposed  upon  me  by  humanity,  and 
rendered  easy  to  me  by  my  character  and  disposition.  You 
sought  an  asylum,  and  I  opened  my  doors  to  you.  You 
entered  them  dying,  and  I  succored  you.  You  needed  care 
and  consolation  and  I  lavished  them  upon  you." 

"For  which  I  thank  you,  senora " 

"Allow  me;  I  have  not  yet  finished.  In  all  this  I  have 
done  nothing  but  fulfill  a  duty  imposed  upon  me  by  religion 
and  humanity.  But  I  should  only  partially  fulfill  that  duty 
if  I  consented  to  your  leaving  my  house  now.  Should 
you  do  so  your  wounds  would  reopen,  and  with  fatal  con- 
sequences, for  the  hand  that  made  them  will  strike  again 
the  moment  the  secret  is  discovered  which  chance  and  the 
vigilance  of  Daniel  have  thus  far  kept  concealed." 

"You  know,  Amalia,  that  they  have  been  unable  to  obtain 
any  clue  to  the  identity  of  the  fugitive  of  that  fatal  night." 

"But  they  will  obtain  it.  You  must  not  leave  my  house 
until  you  are  entirely  v/ell.  Perhaps  it  may  even  be  neces- 
sary for  you  to  emigrate,"  added  Amalia,  lowering  her  eyes 
as  she  uttered  the  last  words.    "Well,"  she  resumed,  look- 


144  AMALIA 

ing  up  again,  after  a  moment's  silence,  "I  am  independent, 
entirely  independent ;  there  is  no  one  to  whom  I  am  obliged 
to  render  an  account  of  my  actions;  I  know  that  I  am 
fulfilling  a  duty  dictated  to  me  by  my  conscience  and, 
without  attempting  to  impose  my  will  upon  you,  for  this 
I  have  not  the  right  to  do,  I  repeat  that  it  will  be  altogether 
against  my  wishes  if  you  leave  my  house,  as  you  desire 
to  do,  before  you  are  entirely  well  and  can  do  so  with 
safety." 

''As  I  desire  to  do!  Oh,  no,  Amalia,  not  that!"  ex- 
claimed Eduardo,  drawing  nearer  to  the  adorable  woman 
who  thus  sought  to  detain  him;  ''no,  I  could  spend  a  life- 
time, an  eternity,  in  this  house.  In  the  twenty-seven  years 
of  my  existence,  I  have  lived  truly  only  when  I  thought 
I  was  dying;  my  heart  has  experienced  joy  only  when  my 
body  v/as  racked  with  pain;  in  short,  I  have  been  happy 
only  vvhen  I  was  surrounded  on  all  sides  by  misfortune.  I 
love  the  air,  the  light,  the  very  dust  of  this  house,  but  I 
tremble  at  the  danger  you  incur.  Though  Providence  has 
thus  far  watched  over  me  the  sanguinary  demon  who  per- 
secutes us  all  may  at  last  discover  my  hiding-place  and 
then — Oh!  Amalia,  I  wish  to  purchase  your  tranquillity 
at  the  sacrifice  of  my  happiness  as  I  would  purchase 
your  peace  of  mind  at  the  price  of  my  blood !" 

"And  what  would  there  be  great  or  noble  in  the  soul 
of  the  woman  who,  on  her  side,  would  not  brave  a  danger 
to  save  the  man  whom — whom  she  has  called  her  friend?" 

'"Amalia!"  exclaimed  Eduardo,  rapturously,  seizing  her 
hand. 

"Do  you  think,  Eduardo,  that  under  the  sky  which  covers 
us  there  are  not  women  also  who  would  identify  their 
lives  and  their  destinies  with  the  lives  and  the  destinies 
of  their  countrymen?     If  I  had  a  brother,  a  husband,  a 


THE  WHITE  ROSE  145 

lover,  and  he  were  obliged  to  fly  his  country,  I  would 
accompany  him  into  exile;  if  he  were  in  danger  in  it,  I 
would  interpose  my  breast  between  his  breast  and  the 
dagger  of  the  assassin;  and  if  it  were  necessary  that  he 
should  mount  the  scaffold  for  liberty's  sake  in  the  land 
which  saw  its  birth  in  America,  I  would  still  accompany 
my  husband,  my  brother,  or  my  lover;  I  would  mount  the 
scaffold  with  him/' 

"Amalia !  Amalia !  I  shall  become  a  blasphemer — I  will 
bless  the  misfortunes  of  our  country  since  they  inspire 
words  Hke  those  you  have  just  uttered,"  exclaimed 
Eduardo,  pressing  Amalia's  hands  between  both  of  his. 
"Forgive  me,  I  have  deceived  you;  a  thousand  times,  for- 
give me.  I  had  divined  the  nobility  and  the  generosity  of 
your  heart;  I  knew  that  no  vulgar  fear  could  find  a  place 
in  it.  But  my  departure  is  dictated  by  another  motive, 
by  honor.  Amalia,  do  you  guess  nothing  of  v/hat  is  passing 
in  the  heart  of  the  man  on  whom  you  have  bestov/ed  life 
to  maintain  it  in  a  celestial  delirium  v/hich  he  had  never 
felt  before?" 

"Never?" 

"Never!  never!" 

"Oh !  say  that  again,  Eduardo,"  exclaimed  Amalia,  press- 
ing, in  her  turn,  Belgrano's  hand  between  her  hands  while 
her  eyes  exchanged  with  his  those  indescribable  magnetic 
glances  in  which  two  congenial  souls,  tempered  in  the  same 
divine  fire,  mingle  their  being. 

"It  is  true,  Amalia,  it  is  true.  I  had  never  before  lived 
the  life  of  the  heart,  and  now " 

"And  now?"  repeated  AmaHa,  pressing  Eduardo's  hand 
again  between  hers  with  an  agitation  which  she  could  not 
conceal. 

"Now,  I  live  in  it;  now  I  love,  Amalia."    And  Eduardo, 


146  AMALIA 

pale  and  tremulous  with  blissful  emotion,  raised  to  his  lips 
the  beautiful  hand  of  the  woman  in  whose  heart  he  had 
just  planted,  with  its  first  love,  the  first  hope  of  happiness 
that  had  stirred  her  existence;  and  during  this  hurried 
action,  the  white  rose  dropped  from  Amalia's  hands  and 
fell  at  Eduardo's  feet.  Lifting  to  his  her  eyes  full  of 
tenderness,  while  a  fugitive  smile  curved  her  rosy  lips, 
Amalia  pointed  silently  to  the  rose  lying  on  the  floor. 

*'Ah !"  Eduardo  cried,  taking  up  the  rose  and  pressing 
it  to  his  lips,  "I  will  treasure  forever  this  rose,  the  divine 
bond  of  my  happiness  on  earth,  as  I  shall  treasure  in  my 
heart  the  image  of  her  I  love." 

*'Not  yet,"  said  Amalia,  taking  the  rose  hastily  from 
Eduardo's  hand.  "To-day  I  have  need  of  this  flower; 
to-morrow  it  shall  be  yours." 

"But  that  flower  is  my  life,  Amalia;  why  do  you  take 
it  from  me?" 

"Your  Hfe,  Eduardo?  Enough,  not  another  word,  for 
God's  sake,"  cried  Amalia,  drawing  away  from  the  young 
man's  side.  "I  am  unhappy,"  she  continued;  "this  flower, 
fallen  at  the  moment  in  which  you  spoke  to  me  of  love, 
has  been  interpreted.  And  it  has  been  truly  interpreted; 
but  a  horrible  thought  has  just  crossed  my  foreboding 
mind.     Enough,  enough  now." 

"And  what  could  now  prevent  our  happiness  in  this 
world " 

"Any  foolish  act,  a  thing  very  easy  for  certain  persons 
to  commit  in  certain  situations  in  life,  in  this  world,  the 
best  of  all  possible  worlds,  as  somebody  has  called  it,"  said 
Daniel  Bello,  who  at  this  moment  entered  the  salon  from 
the  inner  rooms,  through  which  he  had  passed  unheard. 

"There  is  no  need  to  disturb  yourselves,"  he  continued, 
observing  the  movement   which   Eduardo  made  to   draw. 


THE  WHITE  ROSE  147 

away  from  the  place  which  he  had  occupied  on  the  sofa 
beside  AmaHa.  ''But  since  you  have  made  room  for  me 
I  will  sit  down  between  you." 

And  Daniel,  seating  himself  on  the  sofa  between  his 
cousin  and  his  friend,  and  taking  a  hand  of  each,  continued : 

"I  will  begin  by  confessing  to  you  that  I  heard  nothing 
but  Eduardo's  last  words,  which  I  might  just  as  well  not 
have  heard,  for  I  have  been  imagining  them  for  many  days 
past.  I  have  finished."  And  he  bowed  with  ironical  gravity 
to  his  cousin,  whose  face  was  suffused  with  blushes,  and 
to  Eduardo,  who  v/as  frowning. 

"Ah !  since  neither  of  you  wishes  to  answer  me,"  con- 
tinued Daniel,  "I  must  carry  on  the  conversation  alone. 
Which  do  you  prefer,  cousin?  Shall  Seiiora  Dupasquier's 
carriage  come  for  you  here,  or  will  you  go  in  yours  to 
Seiiora  Dupasquier's  house?" 

"I  will  go  there,"  said  Amalia,  forcing  a  smile. 

"Thank  Heaven  that  I  see  a  smile !  Ah !  and  you  too, 
Seilor  Don  Eduardo?  Praised  be  Bacchus,  god  of  joy! 
I  was  beginning  to  think  that  you  were  both  really  angry, 
because  I  had  overheard  a  little  of  the  much  that  you 
must  naturally  have  to  say  to  each  other  in  this  solitary, 
enchanted  palace,  which  I  must  one  day,  although  it 
may  not  be  before  a  year  from  now,  come  to  live  in  with  my 
Florencia.  Will  you  give  me  your  promise  to  lend  it  to 
me,  Amalia?" 

"You  have  it." 

"A  thousand  thanks!  Now,  then,  about  to-night;  let 
us  fix  an  hour,  like  the  English,  who  are  never  unpunctual 
except  in  America — ten,  will  that  hour  suit  you?" 

"I  should  prefer  to  go  later?" 

"Eleven?" 

"Later  still,"  answered  Amalia. 


148  AMALIA 

"Twelve?'*  . 

"Very  well,  twelve." 

"Good.  At  twelve  o'clock  to-night,  then,  you  will  be 
at  Florencia's  house,  to  accompany  her  to  the  ball;  since 
on  that  condition  only  will  Senora  Dupasquier  consent  to 
her  daughter's  going." 

"Yes." 

"Who  will  be  your  escort?" 

"I,"  said  Eduardo,  hastily. 

"Gently,  gently,  my  friend.  You  will  take  good  care 
not  to  be  anybody's  escort  at  twelve  o'clock  to-night." 

"But  how  is  she  to  go  alone?" 

"But  how  are  you  to  go  with  her,  on  the  night  of  the 
twenty-fourth  of  May,"  answered  Daniel,  looking  fixedly 
at  Eduardo,  and  accentuating  the  words  twenty- fourth. 

Eduardo  lowered  his  eyes ;  but  Amalia,  who,  with  the 
instinct  of  affection  had  comprehended  that  these  words  con- 
cealed some  mystery,  turned  to  her  cousin  quickly  and  said : 

"May  I  know  how  the  night  of  the  twenty-fourth  of 
May  differs  from  any  other  night,  that  this  gentleman 
should  not  do  me  the  honor  to  accompany  me?" 

"Your  question  is  very  just,  my  dear  Amalia,  but  there 
are  certain  things  that  we  are  compelled  to  keep  from  the 
ladies." 

"Then  there  is  something  political  in  this,  is  there  not  ?" 

"Perhaps." 

*'I  have  no  right  to  demand  from  this  gentleman  that 
he  shall  accompany  me,  but  I  think  that  I  have  at  least 
the  right  over  both  of  you  to  recommend  you  to  be  a  little 
prudent." 

"I  will  answer  to  you  for  Eduardo." 

"For  both  of  you,"  Amalia  hastened  to  say. 

"Very  well,  for  both  of  us.    It  is  agreed,  then,  that  you 


THE  WHITE  ROSE  149 

will  be  at  Florencia's  at  twelve.  Pedro  will  drive  you 
and  Eduardo's  servant  will  be  your  footman.  At  Madame 
Dupasquier's  you  will  take  her  carriage  and  go  with 
Florencia  to  the  ball;  your  own  will  return  for  you  at 
four  in  the  morning." 

*'Oh,  that  is  too  much !     Four  hours !     One  is  enough." 

''One  is  too  Httle." 

"I  think,  considering  the  sacrifice  I  make,  that  it  is  too 
much." 

"I  know  that,  Amalia;  but  it  is  a  sacrifice  you  make  for 
the  security  of  your  house,  and  consequenly,  for  Eduardo's 
undisturbed  continuance  in  it.  I  have  told  you  a  dozen 
times  over  that  to  absent  yourself  from  this  ball  given  to 
Manuela  for  which  she  has  sent  you  an  invitation  at 
Agustina's  request  would  be  to  run  the  risk  of  giving 
offense;  and  then  we  should  be  badly  off.  To  go  to  this 
ball  and  to  leave  it  before  any  other  lady,  would  be  to 
draw  upon  yourself  the  unfavorable  notice  of  everybody." 

"And  what  do  those  people  matter  to  me?"  said  Amalia, 
in  a  tone  of  marked  contempt. 

"Very  true ;  this  lady  should  care  nothing  for  the  resent- 
ment of  those  people;  nor  have  I  ever  thought  with  you, 
Daniel,  that  she  should  do  them  the  honor  to  attend  their 
ball,"  observed  Eduardo. 

"Bravo  !  Excellent !"  cried  Daniel,  bowing  first  to  Amalia 
and  then  to  Eduardo.  "You  talk  like  a  pair  of  sages," 
he  continued,  "and  you  have  convinced  me  that  it  is  a  piece 
of  folly  for  my  dear  cousin  to  go  to  the  ball.  Let  her  not 
go,  then.  But  in  that  case  she  would  do  well  to  begin 
at  once  to  burn  her  blue  hangings  so  that  they  may  not 
offend  the  sensitive  eyes  of  the  Mashorca,*  when  she  has 

*  Mas-horca  (more  gallows)  pronounced  like  mazorca,  an  ear  of  corn,  the 
emblem  of  the  Sociedad  Popular  RestSLmsLdoia,.— Translator's  note. 


150  (AMALIA^ 

the  honor  of   receiving  a  visit   from  them  within  a  few 
days.'' 

"That  canaille  in  my  house  !'*  exclaimed  AmaHa,  her  eyes 
flashing  haughtily  as  she  lifted  up  her  queenly  head.  "Well, 
then,"  she  continued,  "my  servants  will  treat  them  as  they 
would  dogs — they  w^ill  turn  them  into  the  street." 

"Excellent !  Magnificent !"  exclaimed  Daniel,  rubbing  his 
hands  together;  then,  leaning  his  head  against  the  back  of 
the  sofa  and  looking  up  at  the  ceiling  he  asked  with  freez- 
ing calmness: 

"And  how  are  your  wounds  to-day,  Eduardo?'* 

A  sudden  thrill,  as  if  she  had  received  an  electric  shock, 
ran  through  Amalia's  frame.  Eduardo  did  not  answer. 
They  had  both  comprehended  on  the  instant  all  the  horrible 
recollections  which  Daniel  meant  to  bring  to  their  minds 
by  his  question  and  at  the  same  time  the  warning  which 
he  intended  to  convey  to  them  by  it. 

"I  will  go  to  the  ball,  Daniel,"  said  Amalia,  while  tears 
of  wounded  pride  started  to  her  eyes. 

"But  it  is  terrible  that  I  should  be  the  cause  of  your 
having  to  do  so !"  cried  Eduardo,  rising  and  walking  hastily 
up  and  down  the  room,  unmindful  of  the  exquisite  pain 
which  his  agitated  steps  caused  in  the  wounded  limb,  on 
which  he  could  hardly  yet  stand  without  support. 

"Come!  for  the  love  of  Heaven!"  said  Daniel,  rising, 
taking  Eduardo  by  the  arm,  and  leading  him  back  to  the 
sofa;  "come,  I  must  treat  you  as  if  you  were  a  pair  of 
children.  Can  I  have  any  other  object  in  all  I  do  than  your 
own  safety?  Have  I  not  done  the  same,  have  I  not  made 
the  same  efforts  to  persuade  Madame  Dupasquier  to  attend 
this  ball  with  my  Florencia?  And  why,  Amalia?  Why, 
Eduardo?  To  keep  the  future  of  all  of  us  free,  in  some 
degree,  from  the  prejudices,  the  suspicions  which  are  now 


THE  WHITE  ROSE  151 

forging  the  thunderbolt  for  the  head  over  v/hich  they 
gather.  Death  hovers  over  the  heads  of  all  of  us;  the 
sword  and  the  thunderbolt  are  in  the  air;  and  all  must 
be  saved.  In  exchange  for  these  small  sacrifices  I  procure 
for  all  the  only  guarantee  possible;  and  in  their  security 
I  have  the  guarantee  of  my  own  security  also,  I,  who  to-day 
need  the  confidence,  the  protection,  the  esteem,  I  may  say, 
of  those  people  in  order  later  to  be  able,  at  the  moment 
least  expected,  to  tear  the  mask  from  my  face  and — .  But 
it  is  agreed,  is  it  not?"  said  Daniel,  interrupting  himself, 
and  by  an  admirable  effort  of  self-control  forcing  a  smile 
to  his  countenance,  a  moment  before  troubled  and  serious, 
in  order  to  reveal  to  his  cousin  no  more  than  he  had  already 
done  of  the  mysteries  of  his  political  life. 

"It  is  agreed,  yes,"  said  Amalia.  "At  twelve  I  will  be 
at  the  house  of  Madame  Dupasquier — of  those  new  friends 
whom  you  have  given  me  and  to  whom  you  seem  de- 
termined that  I  shall  so  soon  become  troublesome." 

"Bah !  Seiiora  Dupasquier  is  a  saint  and  Florencia  thinks 
you  charming,  now  that  she  knows  you  are  not  her 
rival " 

"And  Agustina,  Agustina,  what  motive,  what  interest  has 
she  in  wishing  to  know  me.    Is  it  jealousy,  also?" 

"Also." 

"Of  you?" 

"Unfortunately  no." 

"Of  whom,  then?" 

"Of  you." 

"Of  me?" 

"Yes,  of  you ;  she  has  heard  your  beauty,  your  exquisite 
furniture  and  your  gowns  talked  about,  and  the  Queen  of 
Beauty  and  Fashion  wishes  to  know  her  rival  in  them ;  that 
is  all." 


152  AMALIA 

''Bah.    But  Eduardo,  how  about  him?" 

"I  will  take  him  with  me." 

"You  will  take  him  with  you?" 

"Yes.  Was  it  not  agreed  that  you  were  to  lend  him 
to  me  for  to-day?" 

"But  to  go  out  in  the  daytime!  You  spoke  of  taking 
him  to  your  house  for  a  few  hours  to-night." 

"True,  but  I  cannot  return  here  until  to-morrow." 

"But  he  will  be  seen." 

"No,  senora,  he  will  not  be  seen;  my  carriage  is  at 
the  door." 

"Ah!  I  did  not  hear  it  stop,"  said  Amaha. 

"I  knew  that  already." 

"But  it  is  still  early,"  said  Eduardo. 

"No  senor,  on  the  contrary,  it  is  late." 

"He  is  irresistible,  senora,"  said  Eduardo,  rising  and 
taking  the  hand  which  Amalia  extended  to  him. 

"Oh,  that  is  a  characteristic  of  my  family,"  said  Daniel, 
crossing  over  to  one  of  the  windows,  while  Eduardo  and 
Amalia  took  leave  of  each  other  with  a  lingering  hand- 
clasp. 

"My  Amalia,"  said  Daniel,  when  Eduardo  had  left  the 
room,  "no  one  in  the  world  could  watch  over  Eduardo 
more  faithfully  than  I  will.  Nor  is  there  anyone  in  the 
world  who  desires  your  happiness  more  earnestly  than  I 
do.  I  guess  everything  and  I  approve  of  everything.  Leave 
me  to  act  as  I  think  best.    Are  you  content?" 

"Yes,"  answered  Amalia,  her  eyes  filling  with  tears. 


CHAPTER  XIV 

SCENES  IN  A  BALLROOM 

The  sun  of  the  24th  of  May,  1840,  had  just  set,  pre- 
cipitating into  eternity  the  day  remembered  in  Buenos 
Ayres  as  the  eve  of  the  anniversary  of  her  great  revolu- 
tion. On  that  day,  thirty  years  before,  when  it  set  it  had 
seen  disappear  forever  the  regal  authority  of  the  last  of 
our  Viceroys,  whom  on  the  same  day  in  18 10,  the  Town 
Council  had  constituted  President  of  a  Board  of  Adminis- 
tration, and  whose  authority  declined  still  further  a  few 
hours  later,  against  the  will  of  the  Council,  but  by  the 
will  of  the  people. 

Night  had  thrown  her  starry  mantle  over  the  sky,  and 
from  the  Palace  of  the  ancient  Delegates  of  the  King  of 
Spain  streamed  a  flood  of  light  which  surprised  the  eyes 
of  the  people  of  Buenos  Ayres,  accustomed  as  they  had 
been  for  some  years  past  to  see  dark  and  gloomy  the 
fortress  of  their  good  city,  the  residence  of  her  former 
governors  both  before  and  after  the  revolution,  but  which 
had  been  converted  into  barracks  and  stables  at  the  acces- 
sion to  power  of  Don  Juan  Manuel  Rosas. 

The  vast  salons  in  which  the  Marchioness  of  Sobre- 
Monte  had  given  her  splendid  balls  and  card-parties, 
magnificently  luxurious  in  the  time  of  the  Presidency,  and 
the  scenes  of  amorous  intrigues  and  domestic  dissensions 
in  the  time  of  Governor  Dorrego,  ruined  and  sacked  in  the 
time  of  the  Restorer  of  the  Laws,  had  been  swept,  carpeted 

153 


154  AMALIA 

with  the  carpets  of  San  Francisco  and  furnished  with 
chairs  lent  by  good  Federals  for  the  ball  to  be  given  for 
the  Governor's  daughter  by  his  infantry  guard,  but  which 
his  Excellency  could  not  attend,  as  on  this  day  he  honored 
with  his  presence  the  table  of  the  English  Minister,  who 
was  celebrating  in  his  house  his  Sovereign's  birthday.  And 
his  Excellency's  health  might  suffer  by  going  incautiously 
from  a  banquet  to  a  ball,  for  which  reason  it  had  been 
decided  that  the  Senorita  his  daughter  should  represent 
him  at  the  entertainment. 

The  lanterns  in  the  Plaza  de  la  Victoria,  the  illumination 
of  the  interior  of  the  palace,  from  whose  long  glazed 
galleries  streamed  a  flood  of  light  that  extended  as  far 
as  the  Plaza  of  the  25th  of  May,  the  public  raffle,  the 
merry-go-rounds,  and  above  all  the  approach  of  that  25th 
of  May  which  never  fails  to  exercise  its  magic  influence 
over  the  spirits  of  her  sons,  drew  the  people  of  Buenos 
Ayres,  ever  ready  to  pass  from  tears  to  laughter,  from 
grave  to  gay,  from  the  great  to  the  little,  to  the  two  great 
plazas. 

Meanwhile  the  invited  guests  had  begun  to  arrive  at  the 
palace,  and  by  eleven  o'clock  the  salons  were  filled  and 
the  first  quadrille  had  ended. 

The  grand  salon  was  resplendent.  The  gold  of  the 
military  uniforms  and  the  diamonds  of  the  ladies  glittered 
in  the  light  of  hundreds  of  candles,  very  badly  arranged, 
but  which  nevertheless  shed  an  abundance  of  light. 

There  was  something  there,  however,  foreign  both  to 
the  place  in  which  the  entertainment  was  given  and  to 
the  entertainment  itself;  that  is  to  say,  there  was  a  pre- 
ponderance of  new  faces,  of  those  men,  rude,  stiff  and 
silent,  who  show  plainly  that  they  are  out  of  their  element 
when  they  find  themselves  in  a  social  circle  to  which  they 


SCENES  IN  A  BALLROOM  155 

do  not  belong,  and  those  women  who  do  nothhig  but  fan 
themselves,  keep  their  mouths  shut,  hold  their  heads  erect 
and  look  very  serious,  wishing  to  give  it  to  be  understood 
that  they  are  quite  accustomed  to  mingle  in  high  society 
but  feeling  the  contrary  of  what  they  wish  to  show. 

The  dancing  proceeded  in  silence. 

The  soldiers  of  the  new  epoch,  suffocating  in  their 
tightly  buttoned  uniforms,  their  hands  cramped  by  their 
gloves,  and  perspiring  with  the  pain  caused  by  their  lately 
adopted  boots,  could  not  imagine  that  anyone  could  be 
anything  else  than  very  stiff  and  very  serious  at  a  ball. 

The  ladies,  some  because  they  had  come  at  the  urgent 
request  of  their  husbands — and  these  were  the  Unitarian 
ladies ;  others,  because  they  were  angry  at  not  finding  them- 
selves among  persons  of  their  own  class  exclusively,  and 
these  were  the  Federal  ladies,  v/ere  all  in  a  very  bad  humor 
— the  former  disdainful,  the  latter  jealous. 

The  daughter  of  the  Governor  had  just  arrived,  and  the 
noisy  applause  of  the  Federals  accompanied  her  as  she 
passed  through  the  galleries  and  salons. 

Attired  in  a  gown  of  white  tulle  over  a  pink  slip,  she 
was  not  magnificent  as  many  of  the  other  women  were,  but 
she  w^as  elegant  and  graceful. 

A  few  minutes  after  Manuela's  arrival  Senora  Dona 
Agustina  Rosas  de  ]\Iancilla  made  her  appearance  and  every 
eye  was  turned  toward  her.  Here  it  was  neither  fear  nor 
adulation,  it  was  the  frank  admiration  of  beauty  which 
inspired  the  enthusiasm  of  the  men  and  the  praises  of  the 
women. 

At  the  period  of  which  vv^e  w^rite  the  younger  sister  of 
Rosas,  wife  of  General  Don  Lucio  Mancilla,  was  not  of 
the  slightest  political  importance,  nor  did  she  concern  her- 
self in  the  least  about  either  Unitarians  or  Federals.  Nor  had 


156  AMALIA 

her  intellect  at  this  period,  whether  from  want  of  oppor- 
tunity or  because  of  a  tardy  development,  manifested  that 
activity  and  scope  for  which  it  was  afterward  remarkable. 

The  importance  of  this  woman  in  1840  was  derived 
neither  from  her  husband,  her  brother,  nor  any  other 
human  being;  it  had  been  conferred  upon  her  by  God. 

In  1840  she  was  barely  twenty-five  years  of  age.  Prodi- 
gal nature,  in  love  with  her  own  handiwork,  had  lavished 
upon  her  all  her  richest  gifts,  and  under  her  influence 
the  flower  of  youth  had  bloomed  into  radiant  beauty — a 
beauty  which  might  have  served  as  a  model  for  the  sculptor 
or  the  painter  but  to  which  neither  could  do  full  justice. 
The  chisel  would  strive  in  vain  to  give  the  statue  the  pure 
outlines  of  her  shoulders  and  throat;  and  the  brush  to 
combine  in  its  hues  the  indescribable  color  of  her  eyes,  at 
times  of  a  brilliant  and  velvety  black,  at  times  softly  veiled 
by  dusky  shadows;  the  carmine  of  her  lips,  the  pearly 
whiteness  of  her  teeth,  the  milk  and  roses  of  her  skin. 
Overflowing  with  life  and  health,  and  gloriously  beautiful, 
this  Flower  of  the  Plata  was  now  in  the  splendor  of  her 
first  youth  and  was,  as  she  had  a  right  to  be,  the  delight 
of  the  eyes  of  the  men  and  even  of  the  women  who,  with 
their  keen,  and  in  this  instance,  prejudiced  sight,  could 
discover  no  other  defects  in  Agustina  than  that  her  arms 
were  a  trifle  too  plump  and  her  waist  not  perfectly  rounded. 

But  the  beauty  of  Agustina,  who  would  have  served  the 
sculptor  as  a  model  for  a  magnificent  Diana,  the  painter 
as  a  model  for  a  splendid  Rebecca,  was  yet  not  in  harmony 
with  the  poetic  beau  ideal  of  the  XlXth  century;  there 
jA^as  too  much  boldness,  it  may  be  said,  in  the  outlines  of 
her  form,  and  there  were  too  few  of  those  sentimental 
lines,  those  indefinable  contours,  that  vague,  sweet,  tender 
and   spiritual   expression   which   constitutes    the    type   of 


SCENES  IN  A  BALLROOM  157 

beauty  peculiar  to  our  century,  in  which  mind  and  feeHng 
have  so  large  a  part  in  taste  and  art:  such  was  Dona 
Agustina  Rosas  de  Mancilla  in  1840,  as  she  entered  the 
ballroom  we  have  described,  radiantly  beautiful  and 
magnificently  attired.  Her  arms,  her  neck,  and  her  head 
wxre  covered  with  diamonds,  and  the  compression  of  her 
waist  lent  the  rosy  hue  of  her  cheeks  a  brightness  which 
appeared  too  vivid  only  to  the  Unitarians  of  her  own  sex. 
But  accustomed  as  were  most  of  those  present,  especially 
the  men,  to  regard  Agustina  as  the  queen  of  the  beauties 
of  Buenos  Ayres  they  thought  that  to-night  she  had  won 
this  title  to  retain  it  undisputed  forever. 

Her  dress  was  of  white  lace  over  satin  of  the  same  color, 
and  her  Greek  coiffure  showed  to  advantage,  not  the 
rounded  contours  of  her  beautiful  head,  but  a  diamond  knot 
which  confined  her  Federal  coil. 

The  enchantress  walked  through  the  salons,  before  seat- 
ing herself,  leaning  on  the  arm  of  her  husband,  General 
Mancilla,  who  seemed  to  have  recovered  something  of  his 
lost  youth,  together  with  the  well-bred  and  graceful  bearing 
which  this  gentleman  of  a  former  epoch  had  acquired  and 
displayed  in  the  cultured  society  which  he  frequented  when 
he  belonged,  heart  and  soul,  to  the  Unitarian  party. 

Every  eye  followed  Agustina  with  eager  admiration.  But 
suddenly  a  low  murmur  arose  at  once  from  every  corner 
of  the  ballroom.  All  eyes  were  now  turned  toward  the 
door,  and  Agustina  herself,  moved  by  the  general  impulse, 
directed  her  beautiful  eyes  toward  the  center  of  universal 
observation.  Two  young  w^omen  had  just  entered  the  ball- 
room arm  in  arm — Sefiora  Amalia  Saenz  de  Olabarrieta 
and  Senorita  Florencia  Dupasquier. 

The  former,  observing  the  rigorous  etiquette  of  widow- 
hood, wore  a  gown  of  pale  lilac  satin,  under  another  of 


158  AMALIA 

black  lace,  shorter  than  the  first.  Her  waist,  round  and 
delicate  as  that  of  a  Greek  statue,  was  encircled  by  a 
ribbon  of  the  same  color  as  the  under  dress,  whose  ends 
fell  to  the  bottom  of  the  black  skirt.  Her  tucker  was  also 
of  lace,  and  a  small  bow  of  ribbon,  of  the  same  color  as 
the  ribbon  which  encircled  her  waist,  set  in  the  front  of 
the  corsage,  completed  the  adornment  of  her  simple  and 
elegant  costume.  On  either  side  of  her  face  her  hair  fell 
in  glossy  curls  down  to  her  alabaster  neck  and  among  them, 
above  the  right  temple  was  placed  a  beautiful  white  rose. 
The  rest  of  her  luxuriant  chestnut  hair  was  wound  around 
her  head  in  a  double  braid  that  seemed  to  be  fastened  only 
by  a  gold  pin,  of  which  the  head  was  a  magnificent  pearl; 
and  under  the  braid,  on  the  left  side  of  the  head,  peeped 
out  the  end  of  a  red  ribbon,  the  official  adornment  imposed, 
under  terrible  penalties,  by  the  Restorer  of  Argentine 
liberty. 

Florencia  wore  a  gown  of  white  crape  with  a  tucked 
skirt  adorned  with  two  garlands  of  rosebuds,  which, 
descending  from  the  waist  in  the  form  of  an  apron  to 
the  top  of  the  lowest  tuck,  passed  around  the  bottom  of 
the  skirt.  The  sleeves  were  very  short  and  a  tucker  of  the 
finest  lace  was  fastened  in  front  by  a  red  rose. 

Her  hair,  parted  in  the  middle,  fell,  like  Amalia's,  in 
silky  curls  down  either  side  of  her  face,  a  triple  braid, 
intertwined  with  strings  of  pearls,  crowning  her  head; 
while  two  rows  of  pearls,  escaping  from  the  braid,  adorned 
the  white  and  chaste  forehead  of  the  young  girl.  A  bunch 
of  rosebuds,  similar  to  those  on  the  dress,  was  set  grace- 
fully and  artfully  on  the  left  side  of  the  head,  so  that 
nature's  lovely  adornment  might  serve  as  the  repulsive 
symbol  of  the  Federation. 

Agustina's  reign  was  over.     She  had  just  been  deposed 


^SCENES  IN  A  BALLROOM  159 

from  her  throne  by  a  revolution  effected  in  the  universal 
admiration  by  the  beauty  of  Amalia. 

Senorita  Dupasquier  was  enchanting,  but  hers  v/as  a 
beauty  already  known  while  this  was  the  first  time  that 
Amalia  had  appeared  in  "public.  And  novelty,  that  despotic 
sovereign  of  society,  allied  itself  with  the  radiant  beauty 
of  Amalia  to  captivate  the  glances  and  the  admiration  of 
everyone. 

Agustina  herself  could  not  refrain  from  allowing  her 
admiring  gaze  to  dwell  upon  her  for  a  long  time. 

Several  young  men  hastened  to  offer  their  arms  to  the 
newcomers  to  conduct  them  to  their  seats,  for  in  this  ball 
no  lady  received  the  guests. 

But  whether  from  chance,  or  led  by  that  instinct,  seldom 
at  fault,  by  which  people  recognize  their  social  equals 
without  knowing  who  they  are,  Amalia  and  Florencia 
crossed  the  ballroom  and  seated  themselves  in  a  corner 
where  the  Unitarian  ladies  were  sitting  together. 

Florencia  was  at  once  invited  by  a  young  friend  of 
DanieFs  for  the  quadrilles  which  were  forming,  but  Amalia, 
who  knew  no  one,  remained  sitting  at  the  side  of  an  old 
lady,  who  had  all  the  air  of  an  old  marchioness  of  the 
time  of  Louis  XIII  in  France,  or  of  the  Viceroy  Pezuela 
in  the  city  of  the  Incas. 

"You  have  come  very  late,  senorita,"  said  the  old  lady 
to  Amalia,  with  an  almost  imperceptible  but  graceful  in- 
clination of  the  head. 

*True,  but  it  was  not  possible  for  me  to  come  earlier," 
answered  Amalia,  returning  the  salutation  of  her  neighbor 
whom,  from  her  countenance  and  dress,  she  at  once  recog- 
nized to  be  a  person  of  distinction,  as  she  at  the  same 
time  recognized  how  slight  was  her  enthusiasm  for  the 
Federal  cause  by  the  small  knot  which  she  wore,  almost 


160  A  MALTA 

hidden  among  the  lace  of  her  black  headdress,  for  at  this 
period  one's  Federalism  was  estimated  by  the  size  of  the 
badge  worn,  and  two  persons  meeting  knew  perfectly  well 
each  other's  political  opinions  merely  by  looking  at  the 
button-hole  of  the  coat,  if  they  were  men,  or  at  the  head, 
if  they  were  women. 

"I  believe  this  is  the  first  time  I  have  had  the  honor  of 
meeting  you.     Perhaps  you  have  come  from  Montevideo?" 

''No,  seiiora,  I  have  been  living  in  Buenos  Ayres  for 
several  months  past.  My  name  is  Amalia  Saenz  de  Olabar- 
rieta,"  responded  Amalia,  hastening  to  satisfy  the  curiosity 
of  her  companion,  whom  she  had  already  discovered  to  be 
of  a  talkative  and  inquisitive  disposition. 

"Ah !  you  are  the  widowed  Sefiora  de  Olabarrieta  ?  I  am 
very  glad  to  know  you.  I  have  often  heard  you  spoken 
of,  and  certainly  there  was  no  exaggeration  in  what  I 
heard." 

"May  I  know,  senora,  if  it  is  not  indiscreet  to  ask,  to 
whom  I  have  the  honor  of  speaking?" 

"I  am  Seiiora  de  N " 

"Ah,  I   congratulate  myself  on  having  this  opportunity 

of  paying  my  respects  to  Senora  de  N .  For  myself, 

I  am  as  much  a  stranger  here  as  I  would  be  in  Con- 
stantinople." 

In  the  conversation  which  followed,  in  which  Senora  de 

N bore  the  principal  part,  the  latter  related  to  Amalia 

in  satirical  and  incisive  phrases  the  histories  of  most  of 
the  personages  present. 

"And  can  you  tell  me,"  said  Amalia,  after  an  interval 
of  silence,  "who  that  gentleman  is  who  is  twirling  a  white 
kid  glove,  and  who  is  noticeable  for  the  exaggerated  size 
of  his  red  badge." 

"What!    Don't  you  read  the  Gacetaf" 


SCENES  IN  A  BALLROOM  161 

The  Gacetar 

'Yes,  the  Gaceta  MercantiV* 

1  never  read  it,  but  even  if  I  did '* 


"If  you  did  you  would  have  known  that  that  gentleman 
could  be  no  one  but  the  editor  of  the  Gaceta.  His  name 
is  Nicolas  Marino.  It  is  he  who  preaches  the  slaughter 
of  the  Unitarians.  What  eyes!  Have  you  noticed  his 
eyes?" 

"Yes,  seiiora,"  answered  Amalia,  laughing. 

"And  do  you  know  one  thing?"  continued  Senora  de 
N ." 

"What  is  that,  senora?" 

"That  I  observe  that  Nicolas  Marino  is  looking  at  you 
a  great  deal  more  than  he  ought  to  do  with  those  eyes 
of  his,  which  is  the  very  worst  thing  that  could  happen  to 
a  girl  of  your  beauty." 

"Thanks,  senora." 

"And  above  all  of  your  principles;  for  you  would  not 
do  that  man  the  honor  to  receive  him  in  your  house,  is 
it  not  so?" 

"I  have  already  form.ed  my  circle  of  acquaintances,  and 
it  would  be  difficult  for  me  to  add  new  ones  to  it," 
responded  Amalia,  avoiding  a  direct  answer. 

"And  especially  a  man  like  that,"  continued  Senora  de 

N .      "And  he  is  looking  at  you,  he  is  looking  at  you; 

there  is  not  a  doubt  of  it.  Oh,  and  that  is  an  honor! 
The  editor  of  the  Gaceta!  The  Commandant  of  the  illus- 
trious body  of  night-watchmen  !  But  there !  at  last  his  wife 
is  diverting  him  from  his  melancholy  contemplation." 

"That  lady  with  the  red  satin  gown  trimmed  with  yellow 
and  black,  and  a  headdress  of  gold  fringe,  is  the  wife  of 
Senor  Marifio?" 

"Yes." 


162  AMALIA 

"Ah!  Do  you  know,  senora,"  resumed  Amalia,  after  a 
moment's  silence,  "that,  without  denying  that  the  bio- 
graphical sketches  you  have  given  me  are  interesting,  it 
would  interest  me  even  more  to  know  which  of  those  ladies 
is  Manuelita  and  which  Agustina?" 

"They  are  both  at  this  moment  dancing  in  the  next  room. 
You  may  have  heard  that  Agustina  is  a  beauty?" 

"Certainly,  that  is  the  universal  opinion.  Is  it  not  your 
opinion,  also?" 

"Assuredly  it  is ;  she  is  a  beautiful  country  girl,  but  still 
a  country  girl;  that  is  to  say,  her  complexion  is  too  red; 
her  hands  and  arms  are  too  large;  she  is  too  rustic  for 
polished,  and  too  frivolous  for  intellectual  society." 

"It  would  be  unfortunate  for  you,  seiiora,"  said  Amalia, 
"if  Agustina  were  to  know  in  what  terms  you  speak  of 
her  beauty;  for,  in  general,  persons  of  our  sex  do  not 
readily  forgive  a  slight  of  that  kind." 

"Bah !  do  you  suppose  she  does  not  know  it  ?  Do  you 
suppose  that  all  those  people  do  not  know  how  w^e  regard 
them?" 

"We?" 

"Yes,  we.  They  know  that  if  we  come  to  their  enter- 
tainments it  is  only  for  the  sake  of  our  sons  or  our 
husbands." 

"It  is  dangerous,  however." 

"That  is  our  only  revenge — let  them  know  it;  let  them 
understand  the  difference  there  is  between  them  and  us. 
For  the  rest,  the  risk  is  not  great,  for  what  can  they  do 
to  us?    Besides,  we  talk  only  among  ourselves." 

"Always?"  asked  Amalia,  with  the  most  malicious  smile 
imaginable. 

"Always,  as  now,  for  instance,"  answered  Sefiora  de 
N with  perfect  composure. 


SCENES  IN  A  BALLROOM  163 

"I  beg  your  pardon,  senora,  I  have  not  had  the  honor 
of  telling  you  what  my  opinions  are." 

"What  an  idea!  The  moment  you  sat  down  beside  me 
you  told  them  to  me?" 

'1?" 

"Yes,  you,  senora;  you.  Faces  like  yours,  manners  like 
yours,  language  like  yours,  dresses  like  yours,  the  ladies 
of  the  present  Federation  neither  have,  nor  use,  nor  wear. 
You  are  one  of  us,  even  if  you  did  not  wish  to  be  so." 

"Thanks,  senora,  thanks,"  said  Amalia,  with  her  habitual 
smile. 


CHAPTER  XV 


DANIEL  BELLO 


Daniel  entered  the  ba];room  at  half-past  twelve;  but 
before  following  him  in  it  let  us  go  back  three  hours,  in 
our  story,  and  enter  with  him  a  house  in  the  Calle  de 
Cochebamba,  into  which,  for  half-an-hour  previously,  men 
muffled  in  their  cloaks  had  been  entering  in  twos  and  threes, 
none  of  them  knocking  at  the  door  to  ask  admittance,  but 
one  of  the  party,  in  each  case,  putting  his  mouth  to  the 
keyhole  and  pronouncing  the  word  "Twenty-four,"  the 
door  opening  instantly  at  this  password  and  closing  in- 
stantly after  admitting  the  party  giving  it. 

The  house  is  Doha  Marcelina's  and  the  parlor,  whose 
windows  look  out  upon  the  street,  had  been  converted  on 
this  night  into  a  general  encampment.  The  double  bed  an(! 
the  canvas  cots  of  her  distinguished  nieces  had  been  trans- 
ferred to  it  from  the  bedroom,  around  which  all  the  parlor 
chairs,  those  of  the  dining-room,  three  trunks  and  a  bench 
had  been  ranged,  the  bedroom  having  been  converted  hastily 
into  an  assembly-room  for  this  evening,  a  pine  table  on 
which  stood  two  tallow  candles,  in  candlesticks,  being 
placed  at  one  end  of  the  apartment,  with  a  chair  in  front 
of  it,  which  was  evidently  the  presidential  chair. 

Some  standing,  others  sitting,  others  reclining  comfor- 
tably on  the  cots  and  the  bed,  a  numerous  party  of  men 
occupied  Dona  Marcelina's  parlor,  which  was  dark  save 

164 


DANIEL  BELLO  165 

for  the  faint  light  of  the  stars  that  entered  through  the 
small,  dim  window  panes. 

Conversation  was  carried  on  in  whispers,  and  from  time 
to  time  some  member  of  the  party  would  approach  one 
of  the  windows  and  look  cautiously  up  and  down  the  dark 
and  deserted  Calle  de  Cochebamba. 

The  metallic  vibrations  of  the  clock  of  the  Town  Hall, 
striking  the  hour,  reached  this  mysterious  meeting. 

*Tt  is  half-past  nine,  gentlemen,  and  no  one  could  make 
a  mistake  of  an  hour  when  an  important  appointment  is 
in  question.  Those  who  have  not  come  now  will  not  come 
at  all.    Let  us  call  the  meeting  to  order." 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  address,  pronounced  by  a  voice 
well  known  to  us,  the  shutters  of  the  windows  were  closed 
and  the  door  of  the  room  adjoining  the  bedroom  was  partly 
opened,  allowing  the  light  to  enter  from  it. 

A  moment  later  Daniel  Bello  seated  himself  in  the  chair 
standing  in  front  of  the  pine  table,  Eduardo  Belgrano  sit- 
ting at  his  right,  the  remaining  seats  being  occupied  by 
twenty-one  men,  the  eldest  of  whom  could  not  be  more 
than  twenty-five  or  twenty-six  years  of  age,  and  whose  fea- 
tures and  dress  showed  that  they  belonged  to  the  cultured 
and  intelligent  class. 

"My  friends,"  said  Daniel,  looking  around  the  assemb- 
lage, "thirty- four  men  were  to  have  met  here  to-night, 
yet  there  are  only  twenty-three  of  us  present.  But  what- 
ever may  be  the  causes  for  which  our  friends  have  deserted 
us  let  us  not  insult  any  of  them  by  thinking  him  a  traitor 
or  entertain  the  slightest  suspicion  regarding  his  secret. 
Thirty-two  men  were  selected  by  me;  each  received  timely 
notice  to  be  here  to-night,  and  I  know  well,  gentlemen, 
who  are  the  men  in  Buenos  Ayres  whose  honor  is  to  be 
relied  upon.    Now,  a  few  words  to  inspire  you  with  perfect 


166  AMALIA 

confidence  in  this  house.     Should  we  be  surprised  in  it  by 
the  tyrant's  assassins  our  doom  would  be  instantly  sealed. 
But  if  he  has  power  I  have  understanding  and  prevision. 
1  his  house  overlooks  the  barranca  on  the  coast.    The  water 
is  within  less  than  two  hundred  yards  from  it,  and  there 
are  at  this  moment  two  boats  at  the  river's  edge  waiting 
to  take  us  on  board.   Should  we  be  surprised,  we  can  escape 
to  the  barranca  through  the  window  of  a  room  in  the 
rear,   which  looks  out  upon  it;  and  even  should  we  be 
attacked  there,   I   think  that   twenty-three   men,   more  or 
less  well  armed,  might  without  any  difficulty  make  their 
way  to  the  shore.     Once  in  the  boats,  those  of  us  who 
desire  to  return  to  the  city  will  have  several  leagues  of 
coast  from  which  to  choose  a  landing  place;  and  those 
who  wish  to  leave  the  country  have  the  eastern  bank  within 
a  few  hours'  sail.     Guarding  the  street  door  is  my  faithful 
Fermin.     At  the  window  overlooking  the  barranca  is  Bel- 
grano's  servant,  of  whose  fidelity  we  have  had  repeated 
proofs;  and,  finally,  on  the  roof  is  a  person  in  whom  I 
have  every  confidence  and  whose  want  of  courage  is  our 
best  guarantee ;  for  if  fear  should  prevent  him  from  calling 
out  to  warn  us  it  will  not  prevent  him  from  making  the 
roof  over  this  room  tremble  under  his  steps  when  he  is 
running  away;  he  is  a  former  teacher  of  most  of  us;  he 
does  not  know  who  are  here  to-night,  but  he  knows  that 
I    am    here;    and    that    is    sufficient    for    himx.      Are   you 
satisfied?" 

"The  exordium  has  been  somewhat  lengthy,  but  now 
that  it  is  ended,  I  do  not  believe  there  is  anyone  here  who 
after  having  heard  it  does  not  think  himself  as  safe  as 
if  he  were  in  Paris,"  said  a  young  man  with  black  eyes 
and  a  cheerful  and  open  cast  of  countenance  who,  during 


DANIEL  BELLO  167 

Daniel's  discourse,  had  occupied  himself  in  playing  with  his 
watch  chain. 

"I  know  the  ground  I  am  plowing,  my  dear  friends; 
I  know  that  you  are  all  uneasy,  and  I  know,  besides,  that 
I  am  responsible  for  whatever  may  happen  to  you.  Now, 
let  us  proceed  to  the  object  of  our  meeting. 

''Here,  gentlemen,'*  continued  Daniel,  producing  a  pocket- 
book  filled  with  papers,  from  which  he  selected  one,  "is 
the  first  document  concerning  which  I  wish  to  speak  to 
you;  it  is  a  list  of  the  persons  who,  during  the  month 
of  April  and  the  first  half  of  the  present  month  of  May 
have  emigrated  to  the  Oriental  Republic.  They  number 
one  hundred  and  sixty  men,  all  young,  patriotic  and  en- 
thusiastic. I  have  reasons  for  assuring  you  that  those 
engaged  in  the  business  of  taking  emigrants  to  the  Banda 
Oriental  have  had  applications  for  more  than  three  hundred 
passages,  and  this  since  the  assassinations  of  the  4th  of 
May. 

"Now,  hear  what  is  the  condition  of  the  Liberating  Army 
and  of  the  interior  provinces  in  order  that  you  may  the 
better  understand  the  significance  of  the  fact  I  have  just 
stated. 

"Since  the  action  of  Don  Cristobal,  in  which  the  battle 
was  won  and  the  victory  lost,  the  Liberating  Army  has  been 
encamped  on  the  heights  of  Arroyo  Grande  besieging  the 
troops  of  Echagiie,  shut  up  in  Las  Piedras,  and  all  this 
at  a  few  leagues'  distance  from  the  Bajada;  and  all  the 
probabilities  seem  to  be  in  favor  of  General  Lavalle  in 
case  of  another  battle.  If  he  gains  it,  the  passage  of  the 
Parana  will  be  the  immediate  result,  and  the  campaign 
will  then  begin  by  an  attack  on  Buenos  Ayres.  If  he  is 
defeated,  the  remnant  of  his  army  will  reorganize  on  the 
north  of  our  province,  since  they  have  the  blockading  vessels 


168i  AMALIA 

m  which  to  cross  the  river;  you  see  then  that  in  either 
case  the  Province  of  Buenos  Ayres  is  waiting  for  General 
Lavalle. 

"In  the  provinces  the  league  has  spread  like  a  con- 
flagration. Tucuman  and  Salta,  La  Rioja,  Catamarca  and 
Jujuy  no  longer  belong  to  the  tyrant;  they  have  declared 
against  him  and  they  are  preparing  their  armies.  The 
friar  Aldao  is  not  strong  enough  to  put  down  the  revolu- 
tion, and  Cordova  will  submit  to  the  first  invader.  Rosas 
has  fixed  his  hopes  on  La-Madrid ;  La-Madrid  has  deserted 
him." 

"What!"  cried  his  hearers  in  chorus,  all  rising  to  their 
feet  with  the  exception  of  Eduardo,  v/ho  seemed  absorbed 
in  tender  meditation. 

"It  is  true.  General  La-Madrid,  commissioned  by  Rosas 
to  seize  the  park  of  artillery  at  Tucuman,  has  allowed  the 
revolution  to  seize  him;  and  on  the  7th  of  April  he  put 
upon  his  breast  the  blue-and-white  ribbon  of  Liberty  and 
trampled  under  his  foot  the  shameful  symbol  of  the  Federa- 
toin  of  Rosas." 

"Bravo !    Bravo !" 

"Silence,  silence,  gentlemen;  here  is  another  document; 
hear  it." 


"General  Order  of  April  9,  1840. 

"By  order  of  the  Government  General  Gregorio  Araoz 
de  La-Madrid  has  been  appointed  General-in-Chief  of  all 
the  troops  of  the  line  and  the  militia  of  the  Province; 
Colonel  Lorenzo  Lugones,  Chief  of  StafT,  and  Colonel 
Mariano  Acha,  Chief  of  Cuirassiers." 

A  spontaneous  burst  of  emotion  followed  these  words. 
There  were  no  shouts,  no  huzzas,  but  every  face  was  elo- 


DANIEL  BELLO 

quent,  and  embraces  and  hand-clasps  pronounced  discourses 
and  registered  vows.  Daniel  surveyed  the  scene  with  his 
eagle  glance;  he  manifested  no  enthusiasm;  he  was  studying 
the  complex  book  of  human  nature. 

"You  see,  gentlemen,"  he  continued  with  his  usual  im- 
perturbable calmness,  "that  on  all  sides  the  revolution  rises 
gigantic,  but  the  revolution  is  aimed  at  an  object.  Why 
should  we  not  believe  that  the  revolution  will  be  logical 
and  that  it  will  seek  that  object  in  the  place  in  which  it 
hides  itself?  That  object  is  a  head  and  that  head  is  in 
Buenos  Ayres.  If  the  efforts  of  all  are  to  be  directed  to 
this  point,  is  it  not  true,  gentlemen,  that  we  too  ought  to 
contribute  to  the  triumph  that  is  approaching?" 

"Yes,  yes,"  cried  his  hearers  in  chorus. 

"Now,  count  the  patriots  who  have  left  Buenos  Ayres; 
calculate  the  number  that  will  leave  it  in  the  future  unless 
we  can  succeed  in  stemming  this  torrent  of  emigration, 
and  then  tell  me  if  the  same  number  of  men  would  not 
be  sufficient  to  cooperate  effectually  in  the  city  with  the 
revolution  which  the  arms  of  General  Lavalle,  or  the  arms 
of  the  Coalition  of  Cuyo  w^ill  effect  in  the  province. 

"Emigration  leaves  Buenos  Ayres,  that  is  to  say,  gentle- 
men, the  center  whence  radiates  the  power  of  Rosas,  in 
the  possession  of  women,  cowards  and  the  Mashorqueros. 

"Would  three  or  four  hundred  men  who  should  enroll 
themselves  in  the  ranks  of  his  army  assure  the  triumph 
of  General  Lavalle?  Well,  gentlemen,  three  or  four  hun- 
dred brave  men  will  be  sufficient  to  raise  the  city  in  revolt 
and  hang  Rosas  and  his  Mashorca  from  the  lamp  posts 
in  the  streets  the  day  on  which  they  are  surprised  by  the 
news  of  the  approach  of  any  one  of  the  armies  of  freedom. 

"Is  there  danger  in  remaining  in  Buenos  Ayres?  Will 
there  be  danger  and  bloodshed  the  day  on  which  we  give 


170^  AMALIA 

the  first  cry  of  freedom?  But  gentlemen,  are  there  not 
danger  and  bloodshed  in  the  field?  Are  there  not  misery 
and  humiliation  in  exile? 

"Believe  me,  my  friends;  I  am  nearer  to  Rosas  than 
any  of  you;  I  risk  more  than  my  life,  for  I  expose  my 
honor  to  the  suspicion  of  my  compatriots.  Believe  me,  then, 
that  the  worst  course  the  youth  of  Buenos  Ay  res  could 
pursue  in  the  desire  which  animates  them  to  free  their 
country  would  be  to  absent  themselves  from  it." 

*'That  is  my  opinion ;  that  is  my  belief ;"  said  one  of  the 
young  men  present.  "1  would  die  by  the  dagger  of  the 
Mashorca  rather  than  quit  the  city.  Rosas  is  in  it,  and 
it  is  Rosas  whom  we  must  seek  on  the  day  in  which  one 
of  our  armies  enters  the  province,  Rosas  dead,  we  should 
look  around  us  in  vain  to  find  a  single  enemy." 

"Are  you  of  that  opinion,  also,  my  friends?"  asked 
Daniel. 

"Yes,  yes,  we  must  remain,"  responded  all  en- 
thusiastically. 

"Gentlemen,"  said  Eduardo  Belgrano,  when  silence  was 
restored,  "there  is  not  a  word  which  Seiior  Bello  has  uttered 
that  is  not  entirely  in  accordance  with  my  opinions;  and 
yet  I  was  one  of  those  who  had  resolved  to  emigrate  from 
the  country  and  I  do  not  know  yet  but  that  I  may  at  any 
moment  again  resolve  to  do  so.  There  is,  then,  an  apparent 
contradiction  between  my  opinions  and  my  conduct,  and 
consequently  I  owe  you  an  explanation,  which  I  am  now 
going  to  give  you. 

"Senor  Bello  has  said  that  three  or  four  hundred  men 
would  be  sufficient  to  destroy  the  power  of  Rosas  in  the 
city  and  I  would  willingly  believe  this  to  be  the  case.  But 
suppose  there  were  even  three  or   four  thousand  of  us 


DANIEL  BELLO  171 

hostile  to  Rosas,  do  you  know,  gentlemen,  what  that  num- 
ber represents  in  Buenos  Ayres  ?    It  represents  one  man. 

*'A  party  is  not  powerful  through  numbers,  but  through 
union.  A  million  unassociated  men  are  worth  no  more 
than  two  or  three  men  united  in  their  ideas,  in  their  will 
and  in  their  acts. 

"Let  us  study  carefully  the  political  system  of  Rosas 
and  we  shall  find  the  secret  of  his  power  to  lie  in  the 
disassociation  of  the  citizens.  Rosas  is  not  the  Dictator  of 
a  people;  that  would  be  too  vulgar  a  tyranny  for  men  like 
us  to  submit  to.  Rosas  tyrannizes  over  every  family  in 
its  house,  every  individual  in  his  room;  and  to  effect  this 
miracle  he  only  needs,  in  fact,  a  few  dozen  assassins. 

"Small  states  without  social  distinctions  or  a  titled  class, 
in  which  neither  virtue,  knowledge  nor  patriotism  confers 
prestige  on  its  possessor,  at  once  ignorant  and  vain,  sen- 
sitive and  jealous,  the  countries  of  South  America  have 
as  their  only  elements  of  union  with  one  another  and  within 
them.selves,  Catholicism  and  political  independence. 

"Without  comprehending  yet  the  advantages  of  associa- 
tion of  any  kind  it  is  in  political  parties  that  it  exists  least. 

"A  spirit  of  constitutional  indolence,  natural  to  the  race, 
serves  to  complete  the  work  of  our  moral  disorganization 
and  we  meet,  we  talk,  we  agree  to-day,  and  to-morrow  we 
separate,  we  betray  each  other,  or  at  least  v/e  neglect  to 
meet  together  again. 

"Without  association,  without  the  spirit  of  association, 
without  the  hope  of  being  able  to  improvise  that  lever  of 
European  power  and  European  progress  called  association, 
on  what  can  we  count  for  the  work  we  propose  to  accom- 
plish? On  public  opinion?  Ah,  gentlemen,  that  opinion 
has  existed  for  many  years  in  our  country,  and  yet  the 
Mashorca,  that  is  to  say,  a  hundred  ruffians,  take  us  one 


172  AMALIA 

by  one,  and  do  with  us  whatever  they  wish.  This  is  the 
simple  fact,  and  I  prefer  to  die  on  the  field  of  battle  to 
dying  in  my  house,  waiting  for  a  revolution  which  all  the 
people  of  our  city  together  could  never  effect,  for  all  to- 
gether we  represent  only  the  value  of  one  man. 

"Meanwhile,  what  my  friend  has  said  is  an  indisputable 
truth;  that  is  to  say,  it  would  be  more  opportune  and 
efficacious  to  exterminate  tyranny  in  the  single  person  of 
Rosas.  Tell  me  if  it  be  possible  to  establish  association 
and  I  will  be  the  first  to  cast  aside  all  idea  of  abandoning 
the  country." 

A  general  silence  followed  this  discourse. 

All  the  young  men  kept  their  eyes  fixed  upon  the  ground. 
Daniel  alone  held  his  head  erect,  while  his  looks  studied 
their  countenances  one  by  one. 

''Gentlemen,"  he  said  at  last,  *'my  friend  Belgrano  has 
expressed  my  sentiments,  in  so  far  as  the  spirit  of  in- 
dividualism which,  to  the  misfortune  of  our  country,  has 
always  characterized  the  Argentines,  is  concerned.  But  the 
evils  resulting  from  this  defect  of  our  education  in  the  past 
are  the  best  hope  we  have  that  we  will  correct  ourselves 
of  it;  and  to  urge  upon  you  the  benefits  of  association 
after  persuading  you  of  the  necessity  of  remaining  in 
Buenos  Ayres  was  the  second  part  of  the  purpose  that 
brought  me  here  to-night.  You  have  agreed  with  me  that 
we  should  await  events  in  Buenos  Ayres;  you  must  agree 
with  me  also,  that  if  those  events  find  us  disunited  we 
shall  profit  but  little  by  them. 

''United,  our  defense  systematized,  all  banded  together 
to  avenge  the  first  who  falls,  we  shall  either  stay  the  hand 
of  the  assassin ;  or  provoke  the  revolution ;  or  we  may 
emigrate  in  a  body,  when  all  hope  of  exterminating  tyranny 
is  at  an  end ;  or,  finally,  we  can  die  in  the  streets  of  our  city, 


DANIEL  BELLO  173 

leaving  behind  us  an  honorable  example  to  future 
generations. 

"I,  who  purchase  at  the  price  of  my  peace  and  my 
reputation  the  secrets  of  our  enemies;  I,  V\^ho,  with  my 
heart  throbbing  with  rage,  take  in  my  hand  the  bloody 
hands  of  the  assassins  of  our  country,  will  incite  their 
envenomed  hearts  to  crime  by  my  words  whenever  I  believe 
that  that  crime  will  arouse  against  them  the  vengeance  of 
the  oppressed.  For  the  moment  in  which  the  hand  of  a 
brave  man,  in  the  light  of  day,  plunges  a  dagger  in  the 
breast  of  one  of  the  assassins,  that  moment,  gentlemen,  will 
be  the  last  of  the  tyrant;  for  oppressed  peoples  need  only 
a  man,  a  battle  cry,  an  instant's  time,  to  pass  amid  the  din 
of  arms  from  slavery  to  liberty,  from  paralysis  to  action." 

Daniel's  countenance  glowed,  his  eyes  flashed  fire.  The 
glances  of  all  were  fixed  upon  him.  Eduardo  alone,  who 
was  of  a  contemplative  and  philosophic  cast  of  mind,  and 
of  a  haughty,  frank  and  courageous  temper,  remained  with 
his  elbow  resting  on  the  table  and  his  forehead  leaning  on 
the  palm  of  his  hand. 

"Yes,  association,"  cried  one  of  the  young  men ;  "associa- 
tion to-day,  to  defend  ourselves  against  the  Mashorca,  to 
await  the  revolution,  to  hang  Rosas." 

"Association  to-morrow,"  said  Daniel,  raising  his  voice 
for  the  first  time  and  throwing  back  his  haughty,  beautiful 
and  intellectual  head,  "association  to-morrow,  to  organize 
the  society  of  our  country. 

"Association  in  politics  to  give  her  liberty  and  laws. 

"Association  in  commerce,  in  industry,  in  literature  and 
in  science  to  give  her  learning  and  progress. 

"Association  in  religion  to  cultivate  the  morality  and 
the  virtues  which  we  lack. 

"Would  you  have  a  country,  would  you  have  liberty, 


174)  AMALIA 

Would  you  have  free  institutions,  unite  together  against  the 
enemy  of  our  social  reformation — ignorance!  against  the 
instigator  of  our  savage  passions — political  fanaticism! 
against  the  propagator  of  our  disunion,  of  our  vices,  of  our 
rancorous  passions,  of  our  vain  and  stubborn  spirit — 
religious  skepticism.  For  believe  me — we  have  neither 
religion,  virtue  nor  knowledge;  and  we  have  nothing  of 
civilization  but  its  vices." 

*'Yes,  yes,  we  will  unite  together,"  cried  several  voices 
in  chorus. 

"Yes,  my  friends,  we  will  unite  together,"  continued 
Daniel;  "and  while  we  are  still  filled  with  the  enthusiasm 
inspired  by  this  thought  we  should  separate.  I  will  draw 
up  our  constitution.  It  will  be  simple,  the  expression  of 
a  very  simple  requirement— that  of  being  able  to  assemble 
together  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  whenever  it  may  be  neces- 
sary to  do  so  for  the  support  or  the  initiation  of  the  revolu- 
tion that  is  to  overthrow  the  tyrant. 

"To-day  is  the  24th  of  May.  On  the  24th  of  June  we 
will  meet  again  in  this  house  at  the  same  hour  as  to-night. 

"One  word  more;  let  each  one  of  you  use  all  his  influence 
to  prevent  our  friends  from  emigrating;  but  if  they  desire 
positively  to  do  so,  let  them  come  to  me;  I  will  answer 
for  their  safe  embarkation.  But  seek  me  only  in  that  case. 
Otherwise  shun  me;  censure  my  conduct  among  the  in- 
different; tarnish  my  name  with  your  censure,  for  the  time 
will  come  when  I  will  purify  it  in  the  crucible  of  our  coun- 
try's liberty.  Are  you  satisfied?  Have  you  complete  con- 
fidence in  me?" 

The  young  men  all  crowded  around  Daniel,  and  a  hearty 
embrace  was  the  answer  he  received  from  each. 

Then  the  door  leading  into  the  parlor  was  opened,  after 
that  the  street  door ;  and  ten  minutes  later  the  meeting  had 
dispersed. 


CHAPTER  XVI 

SCENES  IN  A  BALLROOM — Continued 

Daniel  entered  the  ballroom,  as  we  saw  at  the  beginning 
of  Chapter  XIV,  at  half-past  twelve  o'clock. 

As  Florencia  was  promenading  through  the  room  he 
crossed  over  to  his  cousin,  who  was  sitting  beside  the  un- 
compromising lady  who  seemed  to  know  by  heart  the  his- 
tory of  everyone  present. 

Sefiora  de  N responded  to  Daniel's  salutation  some- 
what coldly,  and  the  latter,  giving  Amalia  his  arm,  said 
to  her  as  they  walked  through  the  room: 

"Have  you  been  talking  much  to  that  lady?" 

"No;  but  she  has  been  talking  a  great  deal  to  me." 

"Do  you  know  who  she  is?" 

"Seiiora  de  N ^ 

"The  most  uncompromising  Unitarian  in  Buenos  Ayres. 
But  there  is  Manuela;  I  am  going  to  present  you  to  her." 

"Tell  me,  must  I  cry,  Long  live  the  Federation!  when 
I  salute  her  ?"  said  Amalia,  with  an  ironical  smile. 

"Manuela  is  the  only  good  one  of  the-  whole  Rosas 
family;  they  may  succeed  in  perverting  her  in  the  end,  but 
nature  made  her  excellent,"  said  Daniel,  almost  in  a 
whisper,  for  they  were  now  within  a  few  steps  of  the 
daughter  of  the  Argentine  Dictator. 

"My  cousin,  Senora  Amalia  Saenz  de  Olabarrieta,  de- 
sires to  have  the  pleasure  of  paying  her  respects  to  you," 

175 


176  AMALIA 

said  Daniel  to  Manuela,  offering  her  his  hand  with  a  grace- 
ful bow.  ' 

Manuela  rose  from  her  seat,  exchanged  the  customary 
compliments  with  Amalia  in  the  most  well-bred  manner 
possible,  and  offered  her  a  seat  beside  her. 

Daniel,  asking  Amalia's  permission  to  leave  her  for  a 
moment,  then  went  to  look  for  Florencia,  who  had  dis- 
appeared among  the  innumerable  couples  that  crowded  the 
salons. 

However  prejudiced  Amalia's  mind  might  be  against  the 
name  of  the  young  girl  at  her  side,  Manuela's  amiability 
and  simplicity  produced  their  natural  effect  on  her  good 
and  generous  heart.  Manuela,  on  her  side,  impressed  by 
the  beauty  of  Amalia,  by  the  softness  of  her  voice,  and 
by  her  high-bred  ease  of  manner,  allowed  herself  to  be 
drawn  unresistingly  by  her  sympathies  toward  the  beautiful 
cousin  of  Daniel,  who  had  managed  to  win  for  himself  the 
good  will  of  everyone  around  Rosas,  the  women  regarding 
him  as  merely  frivolous  and  susceptible,  points  of  great 
importance  with  them,  and  the  men  as  a  young  man  who 
was  cultivating  his  intelligence  to  be  useful  one  day  to  the 
holy  cause  of  the  Federation. 

Both  girls,  then,  were  engaged  in  an  animated  if  not 
friendly  conversation  when  Daniel  approached  his  cousin, 
and  Colonel  Don  Mariano  Maza,  Sefiorita  Manuela,  while, 
at  the  same  time,  Don  Nicolas  Marino,  Editor  of  the  Gaceta 
and  Commandant  of  the  Night-Watchmen,  stopped  in 
front  of  the  young  girls. 

A  waltz  was  just  beginning. 

Colonel  Maza  offered  his  hand  to  the  daughter  of  his 
Governor,  who  took  it  and  rose  from  her  seat;  she  was 
engaged  to  him  for  this  waltz. 

The  editor  of  the  Gaceta  wished  to  imitate  the  pantomime 


EST  A  BALLROOM— CONTINUED  177 

of  Maza;  he  held  out  his  hand  to  Amaha,  stammering  a 
few  unintelHgible  words. 

Daniel,  without  a  word,  gave  his  cousin  his  hand  for 
the  dance,  and  turning  to  Marino,  as  she  rose  said,  with 
the  politest  smile  possible : 

"She  is  engaged  for  this  dance,  Senor  Marino." 

And  as  this  announcement  admitted  of  no  reply,  the 
editor  remained  standing  where  he  was,  while  the  cousins 
took  their  places  among  the  dancers. 

When  the  dance  was  over  Amalia  and  Florencia  sat  down 
together  in  a  corner  of  the  ballroom,  and  a  few  moments 
afterward  Manuela,  arm-in-arm  with  Agustina,  approached 
them. 

Daniel  rem.ained  standing  in  front  of  Florencia  and  his 
cousin. 

Manuela  presented  Agustina,  who  with  her  lips  addressed 
Amalia,  v/hile  her  eyes  were  fixed  on  the  beautiful  pearl 
of  the  pin  which  fastened  the  magnificent  hair  of  the  young 
w^idow. 

The  four  girls  sat  down  together  and  while  Manuela 
conversed  with  Florencia,  Agustina  occupied  herself  in  put- 
ting question  after  question  to  Amalia  about  her  dress,  her 
ribbons,  laces,  etc. 

Amalia  was  astounded  at  the  frankness  of  the  beautiful 
Agustina,  and  from  time  to  time  questioned  Daniel  witR 
her  eyes  as  to  what  manner  of  woman  this  was.  Agustina, 
however,  observed  none  of  these  glances.  Hers  were  ex- 
amining even  to  the  stitches  of  Amalia's  gown. 

"I  hope  that  we  shall  be  very  good  friends,"  said  Agus- 
tina to  Amalia,  after  asking  her  if  she  knew  where  she 
could  find  a  pearl  like  the  one  in  her  hair,  in  order  that 
she  might  buy  it. 


178  AMALIA 

"It  will  be  a  great  honor  for  me,  sefiora,  to  enjoy  your 
friendship,"  answered  Amalia. 

"I  have  long  desired  this  opportunity,"  continued  Agus- 
tina;  ''and  I  had  already  thought  of  going  to  your  house, 
without  waiting  for  an  introduction  to  you ;  for  I  am  like 
that — I  am  very  frank  with  my  friends.  And  you  will 
show  me  all  your  things,  will  3^ou  not?" 

"With  the  greatest  pleasure." 

At  this  moment  a  short,  thickset  man  with  a  dark  com- 
plexion, and  a  tall,  fair,  stout  lady,  who  were  no  other 
than  Sefior  Rivera,  doctor  of  medicine  and  surgery,  and 
his  wife,  Dofia  Mercedes  Rosas,  also  a  sister  of  his  Ex- 
cellency the  Governor,  joined  the  group. 

More  noticeable  even  than  this  lady's  gown  of  blood- 
colored  satin,  trimmed  with  black  velvet,  her  large  topaz 
earrings,  or  the  strings  of  coral  which  encircled  her  neck, 
were  several  red  moles  on  her  face  that  contrasted  vividly 
with  the  extreme  fairness  of  her  skin  and  that  were 
especially  exuberant  on  her  round,  full  chin. 

"I  have  been  looking  for  you  everywhere,"  she  said  to 
her  sister  Agustina. 

"Well,  now  that  you  have  found  me,  what  do  you  want 
with  me?" 

"I  am  dripping  with  perspiration,  child;  let  us  go  and 
eat  something." 

"Already?" 

"Yes,  already.     How  are  you,  Senor  Bello?" 

"Sefiora,  I  am  at  your  service." 

"And  what  have  you  been  doing  with  yourself  of  late 
that  you  are  to  be  seen  nowhere?  Making  love  to  all  the 
women?    Is  this  your  cousin?" 

"Yes,  sefiora;  Sefiora  Amalia  Saenz  de  Olabarrieta, 
whom  I  have  the  honor  to  present  to  you." 


IN  A  BALLROOM— CONTINUED  17D 

"I  am  very  glad  to  know  you,"  said  Dona  Mercedes, 
giving  her  hand  to  Amalia,  who  had  risen  from  her  seat 
at  Daniel's  introduction.  "I  hope  we  shall  be  very  good 
friends,"  she  continued.  ''Don't  wait  for  Bello  to  take 
you  to  my  house;  come  and  dine  with  me  whenever  you 
please.  If  you  wish,  my  husband  will  go  for  you,  for  I 
am  not  as  jealous  as  he  is;  this  is  my  husband,  Rivera, 
Dr.  Rivera.     Have  you  not  met  him  before?" 

"I  have  not  had  that  honor,  sehora." 

"Yes,  a  great  honor.  If  you  only  knew  what  he  is!  He 
doesn't  give  me  a  chance  to  breathe;  I  say  it  to  his  face 
so  that  he  may  be  ashamed  of  himself.     Do  you  hear?" 

"I  hear,  Mercedes;  but  you  are  only  joking." 

"Shameless  fellow!  Well,  now  you  know;  whenever 
you  please  he  will  go  for  you." 

Amalia  did  not  knov/  what  to  answer.  Fortunately, 
Commandant  Maza,  who  seemed  to  be  Manuela's  escort 
to-night,  now  presented  himself  to  take  the  latter  to  supper 
and  a  diversion  was  thus  effected. 

The  moment  Manuela  stood  up  everyone  else  stood  also. 

The  Federal  ladies  made  haste  to  follow,  like  satellites, 
the  radiant  star  of  the  Federation  of  1840.  Each  one  en- 
deavored to  get  as  near  to  her  as  possible  in  order  to  sit 
beside  her  at  table. 

The  Unitarian  ladies,  on  the  contrary,  either  remained  in 
their  seats  or  withdrew  as  far  as  possible  from  the  others; 
exchanging  with  one  another  at  the  same  time  eloquent  and 
significant  glances. 

The  moment  Manuela  and  Agustina  stood  up  Daniel 
made  a  sign  to  one  of  his  friends,  who,  in  response  to  a 
few  whispered  v/ords  from  him  offered  his  arm  to  Amalia, 
while  Florencia  took  that  of  Daniel. 

They  were  proceeding  in  this  order  to  the  grand  dining- 


180  AMALIA 

room   of   the   palace   through   salons   and  galleries,   when 

Senora  de  N accompanied  by  a  young  man,  approached 

Amalia  and  whispered  to  her : 

"I  congratulate  you  on  your  new  friends." 

Amalia  responded  with  a  smile. 

"I  understand  that  smile.  We  are  of  the  same  mind. 
But  I  have  something  serious  to  tell  you." 

''Something  serious?"  said  Amalia,  stopping  with  a  sud- 
den throb  of  the  heart,  for  everything  here,  if  it  did  not 
alarm  her,  made  her  uneasy. 

"Yes." 

"And  what  is  it?" 

"It  concerns  Marino." 

"The  man  with  the  eyes?" 

"The  man  with  the  eyes." 

"Well,  and  what  is  it?" 

"That  he  follows  you  everywhere  with  his  gaze,  that 
he  devours  you  with  his  eyes,  and  that  he  has  just  said  to 
a  friend  of  mine  that  the  devil  may  take  him  if  he  does 
not  win  your  favor." 

"Ah!  then  let  us  congratulate  ourselves,  senora,  and  let 
us  go  to  supper,"  said  Amalia,  taking  her  companion's  arm 
again. 

"No,  no,  softly;"  said  Senora  de  N ,  "you  do  not 

know  that  man,  my  dear." 

"That  man!  That  man  is  a  madman  and  nothing  more, 
senora,"  answered  Amalia,  shrugging  her  shoulders  slightly 

and  taking  leave  of  Seiiora  de  N with  an  enchanting 

smile. 


CHAPTER  XVII 


AFTER  THE  BALL 


A  FEW  minutes  after  Amalia,  Florencia  and  Daniel  had 
left  the  palace,  the  carriage  stopped  at  Madame  Dupas- 
quier's  house  in  the  Calle  de  la  Reconquista,  and  after  leav- 
ing Florencia  there  drove  on  some  fifty  paces  further  in 
the  same  direction  and  then  stopped  again  beside  another 
carriage  which  had  been  waiting  for  it,  apparently,  and 
from  which  Eduardo  Belgrano  alighted  at  the  same  moment 
in  which  Daniel  alighted  from  Amalia's  carriage.  The 
young  men  exchanged  a  fev/  words  and  Daniel  then  en- 
tered the  carriage  which  Eduardo  had  just  left,  and  which 
was  his  own  carriage,  and  the  latter  took  his  friend's  place 
at  Amalia's  side. 

Amalia's  carriage,  with  old  Pedro  as  coachman  and  Bel- 
grano's  servant  as  footman,  then  drove  rapidly  down  the 
Calle  de  la  Reconquista  in  the  direction  of  Barracas. 

As  the  carriage  was  approching  the  chapel  of  Santa 
Lucia,  before  turning  into  the  Calle  Larga,  and  while 
Amalia  was  relating  to  Eduardo  the  events  of  the  ball,  it 
was  overtaken  by  three  horsemen  who  at  a  gallop  had 
descended  the  Barranca  of  General  Brown  and  followed 
the  carriage. 

The  intention  of  these  men  very  soon  became  apparent; 
two  of  them  placed  themselves  one  on  either  side  of  the 
horses  of  the  carriage,  passing  so  suddenly  in  front  of 
these  that  Pedro  was  obliged  to  pull  them  up. 

The  third  horseman  approached  the  carriage  door  and 

181  '' 


182  AMALIA' 

in  a  yoice  bland,  but  somewhat  tremulous  from  the  haste 
with  which  he  had  ridden,  said: 

''We  are  friends,  senora ;  I  know  that  you  have  an  excel- 
lent escort  in  Seiior  Bello,  but  the  roads  are  lonely  and 
I  have  hastened  after  your  carriage  to  offer  you  my  com- 
pany as  far  as  your  house." 

The  carriage  had  now  stopped. 

Pedro  leaned  forward  as  far  as  he  could  from  his  seat 
on  the  box  to  take  a  good  aim  at  the  head  of  one  of  the 
two  men  who  rode  beside  the  carriage  horses,  in  order  to 
send  into  it  an  ounce  of  lead,  in  the  shape  of  a  bullet, 
which  he  carried  in  the  barrel  of  a  cavalry  pistol  that  had 
played  its  part  meritoriously  in  half-a-dozen  dramas  repre- 
sented twenty  years  before. 

Eduardo's  servant  was  preparing  to  jump  down  from  the 
back  of  the  carriage  to  take  the  measure  of  the  first  who 
should  come  within  his  reach  with  a  thick  stick,  which  he 
had  prudently  placed  between  the  straps  of  the  foot-board 
of  the  carriage  and  which  he  had  taken  from  them  the 
moment  the  carriage  had  stopped. 

Eduardo  had  no  other  weapon  than  the  small  sword  in 
his  cane. 

The  individual  who  had  spoken  was  wrapped  in  a  dark 
poncho,  and  as  he  sat  facing  the  carriage  lamps  his  face 
remained  in  the  shadow. 

Neither  Amalia  nor  Eduardo  recognized  the  voice  of  the 
man  who  had  spoken.  But  women  have  a  wonderful 
faculty  of  divination  that  enables  them  to  tell  among  a 
hundred  men  which  is  the  one  on  whom  their  beauty  has 
made  an  impression ;  and  in  the  most  difficult  and  the  most 
unfamiliar  circumstances  a  woman  can  at  once  divine 
whether  she  has  any  part  in,  and  where  to  seek  the  clue 
to,  what  for  everyone  else  is  a  profound  mystery. 


AFTER  THE  BALL  183 

So  that  the  unknown  had  scarcely  finished  speaking  when 
Amaha,  leaning  toward  Eduardo,  whispered: 

"It  is  Marino." 

"Marino!"  exclaimed  Eduardo. 

"Yes,  Marino ;  he  is  a  madman." 

"No,  he  is  a  scoundrel.  Seiior,"  continued  Eduardo,  rais- 
ing his  voice,  "this  lady  has  already  a  sufficient  escort,  and 
I  request  that  you  will  have  the  goodness  to  retire  and 
to  order  the  men  who  have  stopped  our  horses  to  do  the 
same." 

"It  was  not  to  you  I  addressed  myself,  Sefior  Bello." 

"There  is  no  one  here  of  that  name;  there  is  no  one 
here " 

"Silence,  for  Heaven's  sake ! — Senor,"  continued  Amaha, 
addressing  INIarino,  "I  thank  you  for  your  attention,  but 
I  repeat  what  this  gentleman  has  said  and  I  request  that 
you  will  have  the  goodness  to  retire." 

"This  is  too  much.  The  word  request  has  been  used 
twice  already,"  said  Eduardo,  putting  his  hand  through  the 
window  to  open  the  carriage  door;  but  Amalia  caught  him 
by  the  arm,  and  by  a  superhuman  effort  drew  him  back 
to  his  seat. 

"It  appears  to  me  that  that  individual  is  little  accustomed 
to  deal  with  gentlemen,"  said  Marino. 

"Gentlemen  who  stop  carriages  at  midnight  may  very 
justly  be  dealt  with  like  highwaymen.  Drive  on,  Pedro," 
cried  Eduardo,  in  so  stern  and  so  resolute  a  voice  that 
the  two  men  who  were  beside  the  horses  did  not  dare  to 
stop  them  without  an  order  to  do  so  from  the  man  who 
seemed  to  be  their  leader  when  Pedro  gave  the  animals 
a  cut  with  his  whip,  ready  to  use  his  pistol  if  anyone 
should  still  attempt  to  oppose  the  progress  of  his  mistress's 
carriage. 


184  AMALIA 

Commandant  Marino,  for  it  was  no  other  than  he,  put 
spurs  to  his  horse  as  the  carriage  started,  and  riding  beside 
it  said  to  AmaHa: 

"Know,  seiiora,  that  it  was  not  my  intention  to  do  you 
any  injury,  but  I  have  been  vilely  treated;  and  the  man 
who  has  received  such  an  insult  does  not  easily  forget  it.'* 

Having  spoken  thus,  Marino,  wheeling  his  horse  around, 
rode  back  to  the  city,  by  way  of  the  Barranca  of  Balcarce; 
while  Amalia,  five  minutes  later,  entered  her  parlor,  leaning 
on  Eduardo's  arm,  looking  a  little  paler  than  usual  and 
somewhat  disturbed  by  the  scene  which  had  just  taken 
place. 


CHAPTER  XVIII 

DONA    MARIA    JOSEFA    EZCURRA 

We  will  now  ask  the  reader  to  accompany  us  to  a  house 
which  he  has  once  before  entered  with  us  in  the  Calle  del 
Restaurador. 

The  sister-in-law  of  his  Excellency  the  Restorer  of  the 
Laws  is  giving  audience  in  her  bedroom,  and  the  parlor 
adjoining,  with  its  handsome  black-and-white  matting, 
which  serves  as  a  reception  room,  is  crowded  with  the 
petitioners  of  the  day. 

An  old  mulatto  woman  is  acting  as  aid-de-camp,  mistress 
of  ceremonies  and  usher. 

Standing  in  front  of  the  door  opening  into  the  bedroom 
she  holds  the  latch  with  one  hand  as  a  sign  that  no  one 
may  pass  through  it  without  her  permission,  while  with 
the  other  she  takes  the  coppers  or  the  bank-notes  given  to 
her,  according  to  their  station,  by  those  who  approach  her 
to  solicit  the  preference  in  obtaining  early  admittance  to 
the  presence  of  Senora  Dofia  Maria  Josefa  Ezcurra.  And 
never  was  audience  composed  of  a  greater  variety  of  shades 
in  class,  color  and  race,  than  the  audience  here  assembled. 
Mingled  together  indiscriminately  are  negroes  and  mulattos, 
Indians  and  whites,  the  lowest  class  and  the  middle  class, 
the  good  and  the  bad — differing  also  in  their  passions,  their 
habits,  their  prejudices  and  their  hopes. 

The  latch  is  moved  from  the  inside  and  the  old  mulatto 
woman  opens  the  door  to  give  exit  to  a  young  negress  of 

185 


186  AMALIA 

from  sixteen  to  eighteen  years  of  age,  who  crosses  the 
parlor  holding  her  head  as  high  as  a  court  lady  might  do 
who  has  just  been  favored  for  the  first  time  by  the  smiles 
of  her  Queen  in  the  privacy  of  the  Royal  dressing-room. 

Immediately  the  mulatto  woman  beckons  to  a  white  man, 
dressed  in  a  blue  jacket  and  blue  trousers  and  a  red  waist- 
coat, who  is  standing  beside  one  of  the  windows  of  the 
parlor  holding  his  cloth  cap  in  his  hand. 

The  man  makes  his  way  slowly  through  the  crowd  to  the 
mulatto  woman,  exchanges  a  few  words  with  her  and  then 
enters  the  bedroom,  the  door  of  which  is  immediately  closed 
behind  him. 

Dona  Maria  Josefa,  wrapped  in  a  large  white  merino 
shawl  with  a  red  border,  was  seated  on  a  small  bamboo 
sofa  standing  at  the  head  of  her  bed,  drinking  a  mate  of 
milk  which  a  young  negro  girl  had  just  brought  to  her 
from  an  inner  room. 

"Come  in,  countryman;  sit  down;"  she  said  to  the  man 
with  the  cloth  cap,  who  seated  himself,  greatly  embarrassed, 
in  one  of  the  wooden  chairs  standing  in  front  of  the  sofa. 

*'Will  you  have  bitter  or  sweet  mate?" 

"Whichever  your  Ladyship  wishes,"  answered  the  man, 
who  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  chair,  turning  his  cap  around 
between  his  hands. 

"Don't  call  me  your  Ladyship.  Address  me  as  you 
would  anyone  else.  Now  we  are  all  equal.  The  times  of 
the  Unitarian  savages  are  over  when  the  poor  man  had 
to  go  about  giving  titles  to  the  man  who  wore  a  frock- 
coat  or  a  new  hat.  Now  we  are  all  equal  because  we  are 
all  Federals.     Are  you  in  the  army  now,  countryman?" 

"No,  seiiora.  Five  years  ago  General  Pinedo  gave  me 
my  discharge,  on  account  of  sickness,  and  after  I  got  well 
I  worked  as  a  coachman." 


DONA  MARI'A  JOSEFA  EZCURRA  187 

''You  served  under  Pinedo?" 

"Yes,  senora;  I  was  wounded  in  action  and  they  gave 
me  my  discharge." 

''Well,  Juan  Manuel  is  going  to  call  everyone  to  the 
service  now." 

"Yes,  senora,  so  I  have  heard." 

'They  say  Lavalle  is  going  to  invade  the  country  and 
every  one  must  defend  the  Federation  because  we  are  all 
its  children.  Juan  Manuel  will  be  the  first  to  mount  his 
horse,  because  he  is  the  father  of  all  the  good  defenders 
of  the  Federation.  But  exceptions  will  be  made  in  the 
service,  for  it  is  not  just  that  those  should  go  to  suffer 
the  hardships  of  war  who  can  serve  the  cause  in  other 
ways." 

"No,  indeed!" 

"I  have  a  list  of  more  than  fifty  to  whom  I  am  going 
to  have  exemption  papers  given  on  account  of  the  services 
they  are  rendering.  For  you  must  know,  countryman,  that 
the  true  servants  of  the  cause  are  those  who  disclose  the 
intrigues  and  the  maneuvers  of  the  Unitarian  savages  here 
in  the  city,  who  are  the  worst  of  all;  isn't  that  so?" 

"So  they  say,  senora,"  answered  the  ex-soldier,  returning 
the  mate  to  the  negro  girl  who  had  brought  it  to  him. 

"They  are  the  worst  of  all;  depend  upon  it.  On  their 
account  it  is,  on  account  of  their  intrigues  it  is,  that  we 
have  no  peace  and  that  men  cannot  work  and  stay  at  home 
with  their  families,  which  is  what  Juan  Manuel  desires. 
Don't  you  think  that  is  the  true  Federation?" 

"Of  course,  senora." 

"To    live    without    anyone    troubling    them    about    the 
vice." 
'Just  so/' 


188  AMALIA 

"And  to  be  all  equal,  poor  and  rich,  that  is  Federation, 
isn't  it?" 

''Yes,  seiiora." 

''Well,  that  is  what  the  Unitarian  savages  don't  want; 
and  for  that  reason  everyone  who  discovers  their 
maneuvers  is  a  true  Federal  and  always  has  Juan  Manuel's 
house  and  mine  open  to  him  to  come  in  and  ask  whatever 
he  wants;  for  Juan  Manuel  denies  nothing  to  those  who 
serve  the  country,  which  is  the  Federation;  do  you  under- 
stand, countryman?" 

"Yes,  seiiora,  and  I  have  always  been  a  Federal." 

"I  know  it,  and  Juan  Manuel  knovx^s  it  too;  and  that 
is  why  I  have  sent  for  you,  certain  that  you  would  not 
conceal  the  truth  from  me,  if  you  knew  anything  that  might 
be  useful  to  the  cause." 

"And  what  should  I  know,  senora,  when  I  live  among 
Federals  only?" 

"Who  can  tell !  You  honest  men  allow  yourselves  to 
be  easily  imposed  upon.  Tell  me,  where  have  you  been 
serving  lately?" 

"I  am  at  present  employed  in  the  livery-stable  of  the 
Englishman." 

"I  know  that,  but  before  going  there  where  did  you 
serve  ?" 

"In  Barracas,  in  the  house  of  a  widow-lady." 

"Who  is  called  Dona  Amalia,  no?" 

"Yes,  seiiora." 

"Oh,  we  know  everything  here,  countryman!  Woe  to 
anyone  who  tries  to  deceive  Juan  Manuel  or  me!"  said 
Doiia  Maria  Josefa,  fixing  her  small  viper-like  eyes  on  the 
face  of  the  poor  man,  who  was  on  thorns,  not  knowing 
what  he  was  going  to  be  asked. 

"Of  course,"  he  answered. 


DOiSfA  MARIA  JOSEFA  EZCURRA  189 

"When  did  you  enter  the  lady's  service?" 

"In  November  of  last  year.'* 

"And  you  left   it?" 

"In  May,  of  the  present  year,  senora." 

"On  what  day,  do  you  remember?" 

"Yes,  sefiora,  I  left  it  on  the  5th  of  May." 

"The  5th  of  I^vlay,  eh?"  said  the  old  woman,  emphasizing 
each  word  with  a  nod.  "And  why  did  you  leave  that 
place?" 

"The  mistress  told  me  that  she  wished  to  reduce  her 
expenses  a  little  and  that  for  that  reason  she  was  going 
to  discharge  me  as  well  as  the  cook,  a  young  Spaniard. 
But  before  leaving,  she  gave  each  of  us  an  ounce  in  gold, 
saying  that  perhaps  she  would  send  for  us  again  and  that 
we  were  to  go  to  her  if  we  should  ever  find  ourselves 
in  need." 

"What  a  kind  lady!  She  wanted  to  economize  and  she 
made  presents  of  gold  ounces!"  said  Dona  Maria  Josefa, 
sarcastically. 

"Yes,  senora.  Dona  Amalia  is  the  best  lady  I  know, 
present  company  excepted." 

Doiia  Maria  Josefa  did  not  hear  these  words;  her  spirit 
was  holding  close  converse  with  the  devil. 

"Tell  me,  countryman,"  she  said,  suddenly,  "at  what  hour 
did  Dona  Amalia  discharge  you?" 

"Between  seven  and  eight  in  the  morning." 

"And  she  was  always  up  at  that  hour?" 

"No,  senora,  she  usually  rose  very  late." 

"And  did  you  notice  anything  strange  going  on  in  the 
house  ?" 

"No,  senora,  nothing." 

"Which  of  the  servants  remained  with  her  when  you 
and  the  cook  left?" 


190  AMALIA 

"Don  Pedro.'' 

"Who  is  he?" 

"He  is  an  old  soldier  who  served  in  the  former  wars 
and  who  has  known  the  mistress  ever  since  she  was  born." 

"Who  else?" 

"A  servant  maid  whom  the  mistress  brought  from 
Tucuman — a  young  girl;  and  two  old  negroes  who  take 
care  of  the  villa." 

"Very  good;  in  all  that  you  have  told  me  you  have 
spoken  the  truth;  but,  take  care;  now  I  am  going  to  ask 
you  something  of  great  importance  to  the  Federation  and 
to  Juan  Manuel ;  do  you  hear  ?" 

"I  always  speak  the  truth,  sefiora,"  answered  the  man, 
lowering  his  eyes  before  the  threatening  look  with  which 
Dona  Maria  Josefa  accompanied  her  words. 

"And  tell  me,  during  the  five  months  you  remained  in 
Dona  Amalia's  house,  what  men  were  in  the  habit  of  visit- 
ing her  in  the  evenings." 

"No  one  visited  her  in  the  evenings,  seiiora." 

"How,  no  one?" 

"No  one,  senora.  In  all  the  time  I  was  in  her  house 
I  never  saw  anyone  come  to  visit  her  in  the  evening." 

"She  spent  the  time  praying,  perhaps?" 

"I  don't  know,  seiiora,  but  no  one  came  to  the  house," 
answered  Amalia's  former  coachman  who,  in  spite  of  his 
devotion  to  the  sacred  cause,  was  beginning  to  comprehend 
that  the  honor  or  the  safety  of  Amalia  was  here  concerned 
and  he  was  annoyed  that  he  should  be  thought  capable  of 
compromising  her,  when  he  was  persuaded  that  there  was 
not  in  the  world  a  better  or  a  more  generous  woman 
than  she. 

Doiia  Maria  Josefa  reflected  for  a  moment. 

"This  upsets  all  my  calculations,"  she  said  to  herself. 


DONA  MARIA  JOSEFA  EZCURRA  191 

"And  tell  me,  did  no  one  enter  the  house  by  day,  either  ?" 
she  said  aloud. 

"Some  ladies  went  there  occasionally." 

"No,  men,  I  am  asking  you." 

"Sefior  Don  Daniel,  a  cousin  of  the  mistress,  used  to 
go  there."  ^ 

"Every  day?" 

"No,  sefiora,  once  or  twice  a  week." 

"And  since  you  left  the  house,  have  you  seen  the  lady 
again  ?" 

"I  have  gone  there  three  or  four  times." 

"And  tell  me,  when  you  went  there  whom  did  you  see 
besides  your  mistress?" 

"No  one." 

"Was  there  no  one  sick  in  the  house?" 

"No,  sefiora,  they  were  all  well." 

"Very  good,  countryman,"  said  Dona  Maria  Josefa,  after 
a  moment's  reflection ;  "Juan  Manuel  had  some  information 
about  that  house,  but  I  will  tell  him  what  you  have  said 
and  if  it  is  true  you  will  have  done  a  service  to  your 
mistress  but  if  you  have  concealed  anything  from  me  you 
know  what  Juan  Manuel  is  with  those  who  don't  serve  the 
Federation." 

"I  am  a  Federal,  sefiora,  I  always  speak  the  truth." 

"I  believe  it ;  you  may  retire  now." 

The  moment  Amalia's  ex-coachman  had  left  the  room 
Dona  Maria  Josefa  called  the  mulatto  woman  who  guarded 
the  door  and  said  to  her: 

"Is  the  girl  who  came  from  Barracas  yesterday  there?" 

"She  is,  sefiora." 

"Let  her  come  in." 

A  moment  later  a  young  negress,  about  twenty  years  of 
age,  entered  the  room. 


192  AMALIA 

Dona  Maria  Josefa  looked  at  her  in  silence  for  a  moment 
and  then  said: 

*'You  have  not  told  me  the  truth;  there  is  no  man  living 
in  the  house  of  the  lady  you  have  denounced,  and  no  one 
has  been  sick  there." 

"Yes,  senora,  I  swear  to  your  Ladyship  that  I  have  told 
you  the  truth.  I  am  employed  in  a  grocery  near  the  house 
of  that  Unitarian;  and  from  the  rear  of  the  house  I  have 
several  times  seen  a  young  man,  v^ho  never  wears  a  badge, 
walking  in  the  Unitarian's  garden,  in  the  morning,  cutting 
flowers.  Then,  I  often  see  them  both  walking  arm-in-arm 
in  the  garden;  and  in  the  afternoons  they  generally  sit 
under  a  large  willow,  which  is  in  it,  and  take  their  coffee 
there." 

"And  from  where  do  you  see  that,  you  say?" 

"The  rear  of  the  house  I  am  in  looks  on  the  rear  of 
the  villa  of  the  Unitarian,  and  I  watch  them  from  behind 
the  fence  because  I  hate  them." 

"Why  do  you  hate  them?" 

"Because  they  are  Unitarians." 

"How  do  you  know  that?" 

"Because  Dofia  Amalia  never  salutes  either  the  master 
or  the  mistress  or  me  when  she  passes  the  shop;  because 
her  servants  never  come  to  the  grocery  to  buy  anything, 
when  they  know  that  the  master  and  all  of  us  are  Federals ; 
and  because  I  have  often  seen  her  walking  in  the  garden 
of  the  villa  with  a  blue  gown  on.  And  when  I  saw  Seiior 
Marino's  orderly  and  two  other  men  watching  the  house 
these  past  few  nights,  and  making  inquiries  at  the  grocery. 
I  came  to  tell  your  Ladyship  what  I  knew,  because  I 
am  a  good  Federal.     She  is  a  Unitarian;  yes,  seiiora." 

"And  what  more  did  you  see  in  that  house?" 

"I  told  your  Ladyship  yesterday  all  I  saw.     A  young 


DONA  MARIA  JOSEFA  EZCURRA  193 

man,  who  they  say  is  the  Unitarian  woman's  cousin,  is  there 
almost  all  the  time,  and  lately  Dr.  Alcorta  has  gone  there 
almost  every  day ;  and  that  is  why  I  said  to  your  Ladyship 
that  there  must  be  someone  sick  in  the  house." 

"And  do  you  remember  anything  else  you  said  to  me?" 

"Ah,  yes,  seiiora;  I  said  to  your  Ladyship  that  the  sick 
person  must  be  the  young  man  who  cuts  the  flowers,  be- 
cause in  the  beginning  I  saw  that  he  limped  badly." 

"And  when  was  in  the  beginning?  How  many  months 
ago  is  that?" 

"About  two  months  ago,  seiiora;  he  hasn't  limped  since 
that  time;  and  the  doctor  doesn't  go  there  now.  Now  he 
walks  for  hours  at  a  time  with  Dona  Amalia,  without 
limping." 

"Very  good ;  you  must  keep  a  close  watch  on  all  that 
goes  on  in  that  house  and  tell  me  of  it,  for  in  that  way 
you  do  a  great  service  to  the  cause,  which  is  the  cause 
of  the  poor,  because  in  the  Federation  there  are  neither 
blacks  nor  whites;  we  are  all  equal;  do  you  understand?" 

"Yes,  seiiora;  and  for  that  reason  I  am  a  Federal;  and 
all  I  find  out  I  will  come  and  tell  your  Ladyship." 

"Very  well,  you  may  go  now." 

And  the  negress  left  the  room  very  well  pleased  at 
having  done  a  service  to  the  sacred  cause  of  the  blacks  and 
the  whites,  and  at  having  spoken  to  the  sister-in-law  of  his 
Excellency,  the  Father  of  the  Federation. 


CHAPTER  XIX 


TWO  OF  A  KIND 


Dona  Maria  Josefa  Ezcurra  was  just  about  to  leave 
her  house  to  pay  her  dear  Juan  Manuel  the  second  of  the 
three  visits  which  she  made  him  daily,  when  Commandant 
Marino,  editor  of  the  Gaceta  Mercantil,  entered  it  very 
familiarly. 

Dona  Maria  Josefa  did  not  keep  her  worthy  visitor  wait- 
ing long  but  went  at  once  to  the  parlor  to  receive  him, 
saying,  as  she  entered  the  room: 

"You  are  the  only  person  I  would  have  seen,  for  I  was 
just  going  to  Juan  ManueFs;  and  I  will  tell  you  in  the 
beginning  that  I  am  very  angry." 

"And  so  am  I,"  answered  Marino,  seating  himself  beside 
her  on  the  sofa. 

"Yes,  but  you  have  not  as  good  reason  to  be  angry  as  I 
have." 

"I  think  I  have;  begin  with  your  reason  and  I  will  tell 
you  mine  afterwards;"  answered  the  editor,  a  man  on 
whom  nature  had  had  the  caprice  to  bestow  a  soul  darkened 
by  the  blackest  passions  of  which  humanity  is  capable  but 
in  which  shone  at  the  same  time  some  sparks  of  imagination 
and  genius. 

"Well,  then,  I  have  reason  to  complain  of  you  because 
you  are  only  serving  us  by  halves." 

"Serving  us?  Serving  whom,  Senora  Dofia  Maria 
Josefa?" 

.  194 


TWO  OF  A  KIND  195 

"Whom?    Juan  Manuel,  the  cause,  me,  all  of  us." 

"Ah!" 

"Just  so !  And  that  cannot  be  pleasing  to  Juan  Manuel." 

"With  respect  to  that,  I  will  settle  with  the  Governor 
myself,"  answered  Marino,  looking  straight  at  the  old 
woman,  although  no  one  would  have  thought  so ;  for  his 
eyes  always  looked  obliquely.  "But  tell  me,  how  is  it  that 
I  serve  only  by  halves?" 

"In  this  way;  that  while  you  preach  in  the  Gaceta  the 
slaughter  of  the  Unitarian  men  you  forget  the  Unitarian 
women,  who  are  worse  than  the  men." 

"But  it  is  necessary  to  begin  with  the  men." 

"It  is  necessary  to  begin  and  to  end  with  them  all,  men 
and  women  alike ;  and  I  would  begin  with  the  women,  who 
are  the  v.^orst." 

"Well,  we  shall  deal  with  the  Unitarian  women  when 
the  time  com.es ;  but  now  I  want  to  tell  you  that  there  are 
some  ladies  also  who  are  not  loyal  friends." 

"No?     Well,  as  far  as  I  am  concerned ** 

"It  is  precisely  to  you  that  I  refer." 

"Come !    You  are  joking." 

"No,  senora;  I  am  in  earnest;  I  confided  a  secret  to 
you  a  couple  of  weeks  ago — do  you  remember?" 

"About  Barracas  ?" 

"Yes,  about  Barracas ;  and  you  have  gone  and  told  every 
word  of  it  to  my  wife." 

"Why!   I  was  only  joking  with  her." 

"Well,  it  was  a  joke  that  has  cost  me  dear,  for  my  wife 
is  ready  to  tear  my  eyes  out." 

"Bah !" 

"There  is  no  bah  about  it;  the  matter  is  serious." 

"What !" 

"Very  serious." 


19G  AMALIA 

''Don't  say  that." 

*'Yes,  I  do  say  it ;  very  serious.  And  there  was  no  reason 
why  you  should  make  this  trouble  between  my  wife 
and  me." 

"Why,  what  an  idea,  Marino !  As  she  would  have  heard 
it  through  some  other  channel  I  told  her  that  you  thought 
the  widow  of  Barracas  very  handsome,  but  nothing  more. 
What  an  idea!  How  can  you  think  I  would  want  to  sow 
discord  between  your  wife  and  you?" 

"Well,  the  harm  is  done  now  and  let  us  forget  it,"  said 
Marino,  looking  away,  determining  to  turn  to  his  profit 
the  treachery  of  this  woman,  for  whom  there  were  in  truth 
neither  Unitarian  men  nor  Unitarian  women,  but  only  men 
and  women  whom  she  desired  to  injure. 

"Well,  suppose  the  harm  is  done,  Mariiio,  you  must  know 
that  some  good  has  been  done,  also." 

"How  so?" 

"Why!   What  did  you  tell  me?" 

"I  told  you  that  I  should  like  to  learn  something  about 
a  certain  lady  who  lived  in  Barracas;  the  sort  of  life  she 
led;  who  visited  her;  who  a  man  was  who  lived  with  her, 
and  who  appeared  to  be  in  hiding,  as  he  never  left  the 
house  or  even  appeared  at  any  of  the  windows ;  and  I  also 
told  you  that  in  all  this  I  had  only  a  political  interest ;  that 
is  to  say,  the  interest  of  our  cause." 

"Just  so,  a  political  interest !" 

"Why,  do  you  doubt  it?    You  smile  ironically." 

"Why,  that  is  my  way." 

"Yes,  senora,  I  know  that  is  your  way." 

"You  see,  I  am  as  I  am." 

"I  know  what  you  are." 

"And  I,  what  you  are." 

"That  is  to  say  that  we  know  each  other." 

"Well,  go  on,  Marino." 


TWO  OF  A  KIND  197 

"That  was  all  I  told  you,  thinking  you  would  not  refuse 
me  that  service;  you  who  know  everything  and  can  do 
everything." 

''Well,  then;  you  shall  now  hear  all  I  have  done  and 
you  will  see  whether  I  am  your  friend  or  not.  I  have 
known  for  a  long  time  past  that  that  woman  at  Barracas 
leads  a  very  retired  life,  and  that  consequently  she  must 
be  a  Unitarian." 

"Oh,  perhaps  not!" 

"Yes,  a  Unitarian  without  a  doubt." 

"Well,  go  on." 

"You  told  me  you  thought  there  was  a  man  in  hiding 
there." 

"I  only  suspected  it." 

"No;  plainly,  in  hiding;  I  know  what  I  am  saying." 

"Go  on." 

"I  sent  one  of  my  servants  to  make  inquiries  in  the  neigh- 
borhood. Near  the  house  there  is  a  grocery,  and  in  the 
grocery  there  is  a  young  negro  girl;  my  emissary  talked 
with  her;  told  her  that  the  widow's  house  was  suspected; 
to  observe,  and  she  would  see  that  the  house  was  watched 
at  night." 

"And  how  did  your  emissary  know  that  ?" 

"Because  I  told  him  so." 

"But  how  did  you  know  it?" 

"Bah!  Because  I  know  you;  and  since  I  saw  that  you 
had  a  political  interest  in  this  business,"  said  Dona  Maria 
Josefa,  ironically  emphasizing  the  last  words,  "I  supposed 
that  you  would  not  let  the  matter  rest." 

"Go  on,"  said  Marino,  secretly  admiring  the  astuteness 
of  this  woman. 

"My  emissary  told  the  young  negress,  then,  that  the 
house  was  suspected;  that  it  was  watched,  and  that  if  she 
was  wise  she  would  ingratiate  herself  with  me  by  coming 


198  AMALIA 

to  tell  me  of  it;  which  would  enable  her  to  say  afterward 
that  she  was  a  better  Federal  than  many  whites  are  who 
try  to  humiliate  the  poor  colored  people  without  rendering 
any  service  to  the  Federation.  The  negress  did  not  keep 
me  waiting;  she  came  at  once  to  see  me;  and  as  if  the 
idea  had  originated  with  herself  she  told  me  all  she  knew." 

''And  what  does  she  know?" 

"That  there  is  a  young  and  handsome  man  there,"  an- 
swered Dona  Maria  Josefa,  adding  these  quaHties  on  her 
own  account  in  order  not  to  lose  the  opportunity  of  mortify- 
ing a  fellow  creature. 

"Well?" 

"That  he  is  very  handsome  and  that  he  walks  about  the 
garden  with  his  arm  around  the  widow's  waist." 

"With  his  arm  around  her  waist,  or  arm-in-arm 
with  her?" 

"With  his  arm  around  her  waist  or  arm-in-arm  with 
her,  I  don't  remember  which  it  was  the  negress  said.  That 
they  take  coffee  together  under  a  willow  tree ;  that  he  holds 
the  cup  for  her  while  she  is  drinking,  and  that  there  they 
remain  until  night  falls,  and  then " 

"And  then,  what?"  said  Marino,  his  blood  on  fire  and 
his  squinting  eyes  bloodshot. 

"And  then  she  sees  them  no  more,"  said  Dona  Maria 
Josefa,  with  an  indescribable  expression  of  satisfaction. 

"Well,  but,"  said  Marifio,  "so  far  there  is  nothing  certain 
in  all  this  but  that  there  is  a  man  in  that  house,  which  is 
what  I  told  you  two  weeks  ago." 

"What  you  say  about  there  being  nothing  certain  in 
it  is  not  altogether  true.  Two  weeks  ago  you  desired  to 
learn  something  about  that  house  and  who  that  man  was; 
you  were  the  only  person  interested  in  the  matter  then; 
but  since  yesterday  the  affair  concerns  us  both  equally." 

"Since  yesterday?    And  why?" 


TWO  OF  A  KIND  199 

"Because  since  yesterday  I  have  been  making  inquiries, 
and  I  have  got  an  idea  into  my  head;  I  don't  know  why 
it  is  but  I  fancy  I  am  going  to  discover  a  certain  person. 
In  short,  this  is  my  affair  and  by  myself,  by  myself  alone, 
I  will  settle  it;  and  that  before  long." 

"But  it  interests  me  even  more  to  learn  what  relations 
this  man  has  with  the  widow  than  who  he  is;  and  this 
is  the  service  I  expect  from  you;  for  you  must  know  that 
that  house  is  a  convent ;  neither  the  doors  nor  the  windows 
are  ever  seen  open ;  and,  to  add  to  the  mystery  the  servants 
all  seem  to  be  dumb.  In  three  weeks  the  only  persons  who 
have  entered  it  are  Senorita  Dupasquier,  three  times ;  Bello, 
the  widow's  cousin,  almost  every  afternoon;  and  Agustina 
four  times." 

"And  why  have  you  not  made  friends  with  Bello?" 

"He  is  a  good  Federal,  but  he  is  very  overbearing.  I 
don't  like  him." 

"And  why  have  you  not  asked  Agustina  to  take  you  to 
the  house?" 

"I  don't  wish  to  give  so  much  publicity  to  the  matter. 
It  is  a  political  advantage  that  I  wish  to  gain  with  your 
help  alone." 

"Political,  eh  ?    Ah,  rascal !     But  go  on." 

"My  friend,"  said  Marino,  in  a  tone  full  of  amiabiUty, 
"all  I  wanted  from  you  was  that  with  your  powerful  in- 
fluence and  with  your  unrivaled  ability,  you  should  make 
yourself  necessary  to  that  lady,  and  it  seems  that  you  have 
divined  my  wishes.  To-day  for  me,  to-morrow  for  thee, 
as  the  saying  is." 

"No ;  look  you,  Marino,  in  this  matter  I  think  I  am  going 
to  do  less  for  you  than  for  myself;  if  what  I  suspect  proves 
true,  I  think  I  am  going  to  give  a  death-blow  to  Victorica 
in  the  estimation  of  Juan  Manuel." 


200  AMALIA 

"So  there  Is  something  serious,  then?"  said  Marino,  a 
Uttle  perplexed. 

"Perhaps;  but  have  no  fear  for  the  Httle  widow;  we 
shall  get  her  out  of  the  business  triumphant." 

"One  thing  more;  do  me  the  favor,  senora,  not  to  say 
a  word  about  these  matters  to  my  wife." 

"Don't  be  a  child !  It  was  only  a  joke  of  mine,"  and 
the  old  woman  burst  into  a  demoniac  laugh  of  satisfaction 
in  the  mischief  she  was  making. 

"Well,  joke  or  no  joke,  it  is  better  to  say  nothing  about 
them;  I  entreat  you  not  to  do  so,"  said  Marino,  who,  al- 
though he  stood  high  in  the  favor  of  the  Dictator,  thought 
it  very  advisable  to  entreat  this  woman,  whose  weapons, 
he  knew,  were  generally  irresistible. 

"Don't  be  afraid.  Well,  then,  if  I  discover  a  certain 
thing  which  Victorica  has  not  been  able  to  discover,  I  will 
send  it  to  your  barracks.  And  you  will  take  charge  of  it, 
do  you  understand?" 

"I  understand,"  answered  Marino,  with  an  undefinable 
smile,  comprehending  that  some  victim  was  in  question ;  for 
the  man  who  once  entered  the  barracks  of  the  Night- Watch- 
men, left  it  only  for  eternity. 

"Didn't  I  say  so?  We  are  going  to  be  great  friends, 
Marino." 

"We  have  been  so  for  a  long  time  past,"  answered  the 
latter  rising. 

"Yes,  cordial  friends.  So  you  are  going?  Good-bye, 
then;  remember  me  to  your  wife;  and  pay  no  attention  to 
any  nonsense  she  may  tell  you." 

"Good-bye,  seiiora,"  returned  the  editor,  surprised,  al- 
most, to  hear  issue  from  those  lips  only  words  steeped  each 
in  venom  of  a  different  kind. 


CHAPTER  XX 

PROLOGUE  OF  A  DRAMA 

It  was  five  o'clock  on  a  cold  and  foggy  afternoon  and 
Eduardo  was  sitting  before  the  fire  on  a  stool  at  Amalia's 
feet  in  the  parlor  of  the  villa  at  Barracas,  when  suddenly 
a  carriage  was  heard  to  stop  at  the  door  of  the  villa  and 
a  moment  later  Madame  Dupasquier,  her  daughter  and 
Daniel  entered  the  room. 

Amalia  and  Eduardo  had  recognized  the  carriage  through 
the  blinds;  and  as  they  had  no  secrets  from  those  who 
were  coming  Eduardo  remained  in  the  room,  a  thing  which 
he  had  not  done  on  the  occasion  of  any  of  Agustina's  visits. 

''Coffee,  cousin,  coffee,  for  we  are  perishing  with  cold," 
cried  Daniel ;  "we  left  the  table  to  come  and  take  it  with 
you  but  the  idea  was  mine;  you  have  neither  the  mother 
nor  the  daughter  to  thank  for  this  visit;  only  me," 

"Don't  believe  him,  Amalia;  it  was  I  who  suggested  the 
visit ;  the  lazy  fellow  would  have  stayed  by  the  fire  till  morn- 
ing," said  Madame  Dupasquier,  a  lady  of  some  forty  years 
of  age,  with  high-bred  features  and  a  distinguished  bearing, 
but  on  whose  countenance  there  was  an  expression  of  mor- 
bid melancholy,  an  expression  very  generally  to  be  seen 
during  that  reign  of  terror  on  the  faces  of  ladies  of  distinc- 
tion, whose  health  was  perceptibly  affected  by  the  almost 
absolute  seclusion  in  which  they  lived,  as  well  as  by  their 
unceasing  anxiety  about  the  fate  of  their  families  or  their 
friends. 

201 


S02  AMALIA 

"Very  well;  Madame  Diipasquier  may  be  right  and  I 
wrong;  but  there  is  no  human  logic  that  can  deduce  from 
that  that  I  ought  not  to  take  coffee  on  a  Friday." 

"Yes,  Amalia;  give  him  coffee;  give  him  anything  he 
asks,  to  see  if  it  will  make  him  stop  talking;  for  he  is 
insufferable  to-day,"  said  Florencia. 

Amalia  had  meanwhile  pulled  the  bell-rope  and  given 
orders  to  Eduardo's  servant  to  bring  coffee;  which  was 
quickly  served  in  the  library,  which  adjoined  the  parlor, 
into  which  they  passed. 

The  servant  after  bringing  the  coffee  had  placed  a  lamp 
on  the  round  table  in  the  library  and  closed  the  blinds 
of  the  windovv^s  that  looked  out  on  the  Calle  Larga,  for 
it  was  now  beginning  to  grow  dark. 

After  a  time  the  conversation  turned  to  the  tragic  event 
which  had  caused  Daniel  to  seek  Amalia's  hospitality  for 
his  friend. 

"It  has  always  been  a  mystery  to  us,"  said  Amalia  to 
Daniel,  "how  it  was  that  you  happened  to  appear  so  oppor- 
tunely beside  your  friend  on  that  terrible  night." 

"Well,  I  am  in  a  good  humor  to-day,  and  I  will  tell  you, 
my  child.     It  was  very  simple." 

Everyone  assumed  a  listening  attitude  and  Daniel 
continued : 

"On  the  4th  day  of  May,  at  five  o'clock  in  the  afternoon,  I 
received  a  letter  from  this  gentleman,"  indicating  Eduardo, 
"in  which  he  informed  me  that  he  was  going  to  leave 
Buenos  Ayres  that  night.  He  is  following  the  fashion,  I 
said  to  myself;  but  as  I  am  something  of  a  prophet  I 
began  to  fear  some  misfortune.  I  went  to  his  house  hoping 
to  find  him;  in  vain;  it  was  shut  up;  I  went  to  the  houses 
of  ten  or  twelve  of  our  friends,  one  after  another;  in  vain, 
also.     At  half -past  nine  I  found  it  impossible  to  remai'fl 


PROLOGUE  OF  A  DRAMA  203 

longer  in  this  lady's  house,"  indicating  Mme.  Dupasquier, 
**the  first  time  in  my  life  in  which  I  have  sinned  in  that 
way  against  good  taste.  I  left  it,  then,  exposing  myself— 
exposing  myself — this  young  lady  here,"  indicating  Floren- 
cia,  ''will  finish  the  sentence.  I  left  it,  then,  and  directed 
my  steps  to  the  barrancas  of  the  Residencia,  where  a  cer- 
tain Scotchman,  a  friend  of  mine,  lives,  who  seems  to  have 
entered  into  a  partnership  with  Rosas  to  leave  us  without 
men  in  Buenos  Ayres — he  taking  some  to  Montevideo  and 
Rosas  sending  others  somewhere  else.  But  my  Scotchman 
w^as  sleeping  as  profoundly  as  if  he  were  on  his  native 
mountains  waiting  for  Walter  Scott  to  come  back  to  earth 
to  describe  him.  What  was  to  be  done?  I  called  logic 
to  my  aid;  no  one  embarks  in  a  boat  except  at  the  river; 
Eduardo  is  going  to  embark  in  a  boat,  consequently  he  is 
to  be  found  down  by  the  river ;  and  after  constructing  this 
syllogism  I  descended  the  barranca  and  began  to  walk  along 
the  shore." 

*'And  alone!"  exclaimed  Florencia,  turning  pale. 

"There !    I  will  say  no  more,  then." 

"No,  no;  go  on,"  said  the  young  girl,  making  an  effort 
to  smile. 

"Well,  then,  I  began  to  walk  toward  the  Retiro,  and  after 
I  had  walked  a  few  hundred  yards,  when  the  silence  and 
the  solitude  were  beginning  to  make  me  grow  desperate, 
I  heard,  first,  a  clashing  of  weapons  and,  proceeding  in  the 
direction  whence  the  sound  came,  I  heard  and  recognized 
the  voice  of  the  man  I  was  seeking.  After  that — after  that 
there  is  no  more  to  tell,"  said  Daniel,  seeing  that  both 
Amalia  and  Florencia  had  become  excessively  pale. 

Eduardo  was  thinking  of  something  to  say  to  give  an- 
other turn  to  the  conversation  when  a  noise  at  the  dooi: 
of  the  parlor  caused  everyone  to  look  in  that  direction; 


204  AMALIA 

and  through  the  glazed  partition  which  separated  it  from 
the  library  they  saw  entering  the  room,  Dona  Agustina 
Rosas  de  Mancilla  and  Dona  Maria  Josefa  Ezcurra,  the 
sound  of  whose  carriage  wheels,  rolling  over  the  gravel 
walk,  they  had  not  heard,  absorbed  as  they  had  been  in 
Daniel's  narration. 

Eduardo  therefore  had  not  had  time  to  retire  to  the 
interior  of  the  house,  as  he  was  in  the  habit  of  doing  on 
the  arrival  of  any  visitor  who  was  not  one  of  those  now 
present. 

Of  all  who  were  there  Amalia  was  the  only  one  who 
was  not  acquainted  with  Dona  Maria  Josefa  Ezcurra;  but 
when,  going  into  the  parlor  she  observed  the  narrow, 
shriveled  and  repulsive  countenance  of  the  woman,  the  low 
forehead,  on  the  tangled  hair  above  which  was  set  an  im- 
mense red  bow,  in  diabolical  harmony  with  the  color  of 
almost  all  of  her  attire,  she  could  not  avoid  feeling  a  vague 
disquiet,  a  certain  mistrust  and  fear  which  made  her  give 
only  the  tips  of  her  fingers  to  the  old  woman  when  the 
latter  held  out  her  hand.     But  when  Agustina  said  to  her: 

"I  have  the  pleasure  of  presenting  to  you  Senora  Dona 
Maria  Josefa  Ezcurra,"  a  nervous  shudder  passed  like  an 
electric  shock  through  Amalia's  frame  and  without  know- 
ing why  her  eyes  sought  those  of  Eduardo. 

"You  did  not  expect  me  in  this  bad  weather,  I  suppose," 
continued  Agustina,  addressing  Amalia,  while  they  all 
seated  themselves  around  the  fire. 

But  whether  by  chance  or  intentionally  Dofia  ]\Iaria 
Josefa  took  a  seat  at  the  left  of  Eduardo,  whom  Amalia 
took  good  care  not  to  present.  All  the  others  had  long 
been  acquainted  with  her  visitors. 

''Your  visit  is  indeed  a  pleasant  surprise,"  answered 
Amalia. 


PROLOGUE  OF  A  DRAMA  205 

"Misia  Maria  Josefa  was  determined  upon  our  going  out, 
and  as  she  knows  what  pleasure  it  gives  me  to  be  in  this 
house,  she  herself  ordered  the  coachman  to  drive  us  here." 

Daniel  began  to  scratch  the  tip  of  his  ear,  looking  at 
the  fire  as  if  all  his  attention  was  engrossed  by  it. 

"But  I  see,"  continued  Agustina,  ''that  we  are  not  the 
only  ones  who  think  of  you;  here  is  Madame  Dupasquier 
who  has  not  been  to  see  me  for  more  than  a  year;  here 
is  Florencia,  who  behaves  like  an  ingrate  toward  me,  and 
consequently  here  is  Sefior  Bello.  Besides  which,  I  have  the 
pleasure  of  seeing  Seiior  Belgrano  here,  also,  whom  no 
one  has  seen  anywhere  for  an  age,"  added  Agustina,  who 
was  acquainted  with  all  the  young  men  of  Buenos  Ayres. 

Dona  Maria  Josefa  eyed  Eduardo  from  head  to  foot. 

'It  is  by  chance;  my  friends  come  to  see  me  very  sel- 
dom," responded  Amalia. 

"And  if  I  do  not  go  to  see  you,  Agustina,  you  cannot 
deny  that  my  daughter  goes  very  often  in  my  stead,"  said 
Madame  Dupasquier. 

"I  have  only  seen  her  twice  since  the  ball." 

"But  you  live  here  so  comfortably  that  your  solitude  is 
almost  enviable,"  said  Doiia  Maria  Josefa  to  Amalia. 

"I  am  tolerably  comfortable,  senora." 

"Oh,  Barracas  is  a  delightful  place!"  continued  the  old 
woman,  "especially  for  the  health ;"  and  indicating  Eduardo 
by  a  gesture,  she  said  to  Amalia: 

"This  gentleman  is  convalescing  from  some  illness,  is 
he  not?" 

Amalia  turned  scarlet. 

"Seiiora,  I  am  perfectly  well,"  answered  Eduardo. 

"Ah!  excuse  me.     You  look  so  pale." 

"That  is  my  natural  color." 

"Besides,  as  I  saw  you  without  any  badge  and  with  that 


206  AMALIA 

necktie  with  a  single  fold,  on  a  day  so  cold  as  this,  I 
thought  that  you  lived  in  this  house." 

**You  see,  senora,"  said  Daniel  hastily,  desiring  to 
prevent  an  answer  that  of  necessity  must  be  either  a  false- 
hood or  too  frank  a  declaration,  both  of  which  it  was 
advisable  to  avoid,  "in  the  matter  of  cold  it  is  very  much 
as  one  accustoms  one's  self;  the  Scotch  live  in  a  freezing 
climate  and  they  go  with  their  legs  bare  half  v/ay  up 
the  thigh." 

''That  may  do  for  gringos;  but  as  we  are  in  Buenos 
Ayres  here — "  replied  Dona  Maria  Josefa. 

''And  in  Buenos  Ayres,  where  the  winters  are  so  severe," 
added  Madame  Dupasquier. 

"Have  you  had  a  fireplace  made  in  your  house,  Misia 
Maria  Josefa?"  asked  Fk)rencia,  who,  like  all  the  others, 
seemed  bent  upon  diverting  the  old  woman's  attention  from 
Eduardo,  and  whose  suspicions  concerning  him  they  all 
seemed  to  divine. 

"I  have  too  much  to  do,  child,  to  occupy  myself  with 
those  things;  when  there  are  no  longer  any  Unitarians  to 
give  us  all  the  trouble  they  are  giving  us,  we  can  think 
a  little  of  our  comfort." 

"Well,  I  have  not  had  a  fireplace  made  in  every  room 
in  my  house  only  because  Mancilla  takes  cold  when  he 
leaves  the  fireside,"  said  Agustina. 

"Mancilla  must  be  hot  enough  to-day,"  returned  Dona 
Maria  Josefa. 

"Why!  is  the  General  ill?"  asked  Amaha. 

"He  is  never  very  well,"  returned  Agustina,  "but  I  have 
not  heard  him  complain  to-day." 

"No,  he  is  not  hot  from  sickness,"  responded  the  old 
woman,  "but  from  enthusiasm.  Don't  you  know  that  for 
the  past  three  days  they  have  been  celebrating  the  defeat 


PROLOGUE  OF  A  DRAMA  207 

of  the  filthy  Unitarians  in  Entre  Rios?  There  is  not  a 
single  Federal  who  does  not  know  that." 

"That  is  precisely  what  we  were  talking  about  when  you 
entered,"  said  Daniel.    *Tt  was  a  terrible  battle." 

"In  which  they  got  what  they  well  deserved !" 

"Oh,  I  will  answer  for  that !"  said  Daniel. 

"And  I  also,"  added  Eduardo;  "and  if  it  had  not  been 
that  the  night " 

"How,  the  night?  Why,  the  battle  took  place  in  the 
daytime,  Sefior  Belgrano,"  interrupted  Dona  Maria  Josefa. 

"Just  so;  it  was  in  the  daytime;  but  my  friend  wishes 
to  say  that  if  it  had  not  been  that  the  night  came  on 
and  put  an  end  to  the  combat  not  a  single  Unitarian  would 
have  escaped." 

"Ah!  of  course  not.  And  did  you  assist  at  any  of  the 
celebrations,  Seiior  Belgrano?" 

"We  spent  three  days  walking  through  the  streets,  ad- 
miring the  decorations,"  answered  Daniel,  who  trembled 
lest  Edurado  should  speak. 

"And  how  beautiful  the  banners  are!  Where  do  they 
get  so  many  of  them,  senora?"  said  the  artful  Florencia, 
addressing  Dofia  Maria  Josefa. 

"They  buy  them,  child,  or  the  good  Federal  women  make 
them." 

"Yes;  well,  I  am  a  good  Federal,  and  I  shall  take  good 
care  not  to  put  my  hands  to  that  use,"  said  Agustina. 
"When  Mancilla  asked  me  to  make  some  last  year  I  sent 
and  borrowed  Senor  Mandeville's  and  I  have  kept  them 
ever  since  and  they  are  the  ones  I  am  using  now  and 
I  shall  never  return  them.  And  have  you  put  out  any, 
Amalia?" 

"No,  Agustina,  this  house  is  so  retired!" 

"And  very  right !  Those  detestable  banners  make  such  a 


208  AMALIA 

noise !  And  then,  the  children !  Eduardita  almost  fell  from 
the  roof  to-day,  reaching  out  to  catch  one." 

*'Oh!  this  house  is  not  so  far  away!"  said  Dona  Maria 
Josefa. 

"But  the  most  beautiful  banners  are  those  in  the  theater; 
have  you  been  to  the  theater,  Dofia  Maria  Josefa?" 

"No,  Florencia,  I  never  go  to  the  theater.  But  I  have 
heard  that  there  has  been  a  great  deal  of  enthusiasm  there. 
Have  you  been  to  the  theater,  Sefior  Belgrano?" 

"Well,  then,"  interposed  Florencia,  "the  day  on  which 
I  go  I  will  call  for  you  and  we  will  go  together,  shall 
we  not?" 

"Don't  trouble  yourself,  child ;  I  never  go  to  the  theater," 
answered  the  old  woman  with  a  gesture  of  vexation  seeing 
that  no  one,  and  especially  Florencia,  wanted  to  allow  her 
to  talk  to  Eduardo. 

"The  theater  is  the  most  appropriate  place  for  the  ex- 
pression of  a  people's  enthusiasm,"  said  Daniel. 

"Yes,  but  with  so  much  shouting  they  prevent  one  from 
hearing  the  music,"  responded  Agustina. 

"Those  shouts  are  the  finest  music  of  our  sacred  cause," 
said  Daniel,  with  the  most  serious  face  in  the  world. 

"Right;  that  is  the  way  to  talk,"  said  the  old  woman. 

"Florencia,  why  don't  you  play  us  something?" 

"A  good  idea,  Amalia.  Florencia,  go  play  something," 
said  Madame  Dupasquier. 

"Very  well,  mamma.    What  shall  I  play,  Dona  Josefa?" 

"Anything  you  like." 

"Very  well;  come  with  me  to  the  piano.  I  sing  very 
badly,  but  to  please  you,  I  will  sing  for  you  my  favorite 
song,  The  Birthday  of  the  Restorer/  Come  with  me,"  and 
Florencia  went  over  to  Dona  Maria  Josefa,  to  give  greater 
weight  to  her  invitation. 


PROLOGUE  OF  A  DRAMA  £09 

"But,  child,  it  costs  me  such  an  effort  to  rise  when  once 
I  am  seated!" 

"Nonsense.    I  know  that  isn't  so.    Come." 

"What  a  girl,"  said  the  old  woman,  with  a  Satanic  smile. 
"Well,  then,  come.  Excuse  me,  Seiior  Belgrano,"  and  with 
these  words  the  old  woman,  pretending  to  seek  a  support 
in  rising,  placed  her  thin  and  bony  hand  on  Eduardo's  left 
thigh,  leaning  so  heavily  upon  it,  that  the  young  man, 
transfixed  with  pain,  for  the  hand  pressed  precisely  on  the 
most  sensitive  part  of  the  wound,  leaned  back  in  his  chair 
and  involuntarily  exclaimed:  "Oh,  senora!"  becoming  at 
the  same  time  almost  unconscious  and  as  pale  as  death. 

Daniel  covered  his  eyes  with  his  hand. 

Everyone,  with  the  exception  of  Agustina,  comprehended 
on  the  instant  that  in  Doiia  Maria  Josefa's  action  there 
had  probably  been  something  of  sinister  premeditation,  and 
they  all  remained  irresolute  and  perplexed. 

"Have  I  hurt  you?  Excuse  me,  senor.  If  I  had  known 
that  your  thigh  was  so  sensitive  I  should  have  asked  you 
to  give  me  your  arm  to  help  me  to  rise.  See  what  it  is 
to  be  an  old  woman !  If  it  had  been  a  girl,  now,  your  thigh 
would  not  have  hurt  you  so  much.  Excuse  me,  my  hand- 
some youth,"  she  ended,  and  regarding  Eduardo  with  an 
expression  of  satisfaction  impossible  to  describe,  she 
crossed  the  room  and  sat  down  beside  the  piano  at  which 
Florencia  was  already  seated. 

By  a  reaction  natural  in  one  of  her  haughty  temper, 
Amalia  on  the  instant  cast  aside  all  fear,  all  thought  of 
temporizing  with  the  epoch,  or  with  those  of  the  family 
of  Rosas  who  were  present ;  she  rose,  wet  her  handkerchief 
with  Cologne-water  and  handed  it  to  Eduardo,  who  was 
beginning  to  recover  from  the  faintness  that  had  for  a 
moment  overcome  him;  and,  drawing  away  brusquely  the 


210  AIMALIA 

chair  In  which  Dofia  Maria  Josefa  had  been  sitting,  she 
took  another  and  sat  down  in  the  place  which  the  former 
had  occupied  at  her  lover's  side,  regardless  of  the  fact  that 
she  thus  turned  her  back  on  the  sister-in-law  and  friend  of 
the  tyrant. 

Agustina,  who  had  observed  nothing,  continued  con- 
versing with  Madame  Dupasquier  about  the  indifferent  and 
puerile  matters  which  usually  formed  the  subjects  of  her 
conversation. 

Florencia  sang  and  played,  without  knowing  what  she 
was  doing. 

Dona  Maria  Josefa  looked  alternately  at  Eduardo  and 
at  Amalia  and  smiled  and  nodded. 

Daniel  stood  with  his  back  to  the  fire,  all  the  faculties 
of  his  soul  in  action. 

"It  is  nothing;  it  is  past;  it  is  nothing;"  whispered 
Eduardo  to  Amalia,  when  he  had  in  some  degree  recovered 
himself. 

"But  that  woman  is  a  demon!  From  the  moment  she 
came  into  the  room  she  has  done  nothing  but  make  us 
suffer,"  returned  Amalia,  while  her  eyes  rested  tenderly 
on  Eduardo's  countenance. 

"The  fire  is  very  pleasant,"  said  Daniel  aloud,  glancing 
with  something  of  severity  at  Amalia. 

"Very,"  assented  Madame  Dupasquier,  "but " 

"But,  you  would  say,  seilora,  we  shall  be  able  to  enjoy 
it  only  an  hour  or  two  longer,"  interrupted  Daniel,  com- 
prehending that  Madame  Dupasquier  was  about  to  speak 
of  retiring,  at  the  same  time  giving  her  a  glance  which 
she  had  no  difficulty  in  interpreting. 

"Precisely;  that  is  what  I  was  going  to  observe,"  she 
responded;  "we  must  enjoy  the  pleasure  of  our  visit  as 
long  as  possible,  since  it  is  one  we  so  seldom  give  ourselves.'* 


PROLOGUE  OF  A  DRAjVIA  211 

"Thanks,  senora,"  said  Amalia. 

"You  are  right,"  said  Agustina;  "and  I  would  stay  too, 
if  I  were  not  obUged  to  go  somewhere  else." 

"You  are  perfectly  excusable,"  said  Amalia,  exchanging 
a  glance  of  intelligence  with  Madame  Dupasquier  at  the 
somewhat  impertinent  excuse  given  by  Agustina. 

"Well,  how  was  the  song?  Did  I  sing  it  well?"  said 
Florencia  to  Dona  IMaria  Josefa,  rising  from  the  piano. 

"Oh,  very  well !   Is  the  pain  gone,  Senor  Belgrano  ?" 

"Yes,  seiiora,  it  is  gone  now,"  answered  Amalia, 
promptly,  without  turning  her  head  to  look  at  Dona  Maria 
Josefa. 

"You  won't  bear  me  any  ill-v/ill,  eh?" 

"Oh,  there  is  no  cause  for  that,  senora,"  responded 
Eduardo,  speaking  to  her  with  an  effort. 

"What  I  promise  you  is  that  I  will  tell  no  one  that  your 
left  thigh  is  so  sensitive — at  least  none  of  the  girls,  for  if 
they  were  to  know  it  they  would  all  want  to  pinch  you 
there  to  see  you  turn  faint." 

''Will  you  be  seated,  senora,"  said  Amalia,  turning  her 
head  toward  Doiia  Maria  Josefa,  but  without  raising  her 
eyes,  and  pointing  to  a  chair  at  one  end  of  the  semicircle 
which  they  formed  around  the  fire. 

"No,  no;"  said  Agustina,  "we  are  going  now;  I  have 
another  visit  to  make  yet,  and  I  must  be  home  before 
nine." 

And  General  Mancilla's  beautiful  wife  rose  from  her 
seat,  arranging  the  strings  of  her  black  velvet  bonnet  which 
set  off  admirably  the  fair  beauty  of  her  face. 

In  vain  Amalia  tried  to  divest  her  mind  of  the  prejudice 
against  Doiia  IMaria  Josefa  Ezcurra  that  had  taken  posses- 
sion of  it;  she  did  not  yet  comprehend  the  evil  intention 
which  had  prompted  her  actions,  but  their  unmistakable 


212  AMALIA 

rudeness  was  sufficient  to  render  her  presence  repugnant  to 
her;  and  never  was  a  more  frigid  leave  taken  of  this 
woman,  all-powerful  at  that  time,  than  was  now  taken  of 
her  by  Amalia.  She  gave  her  barely  the  tips  of  her  fingers 
and  neither  thanked  her  for  her  visit  nor  asked  her  to 
repeat  it. 

Agustina  perceived  nothing  of  all  this,  occupied  as  she 
was  in  taking  leave  of  the  others  and  in  looking  at  herself 
furtively  in  the  large  mirror  over  the  chimney-piece.  Her 
adieus  made,  she  took  the  arm  of  Daniel,  who  conducted 
her  and  Dona  Maria  Josefa  to  their  carriage.  But  even 
at  the  parlor  door  the  latter  turned  round  and  said  to 
Eduardo : 

"Don't  bear  me  any  ill-will,  eh?  But  don't  go  and  put 
Cologne-water  on  your  thigh  for  that  would  make  it 
smart." 

The  silence  which  followed  the  departure  of  Agustina 
and  her  companion  continued  for  some  minutes  after  their 
carriage  had  driven  away. 

Amalia  was  the  first  to  break  it,  saying,  as  she  looked 
at  the  others  with  genuine  astonishment : 

"But  what  sort  of  a  woman  is  that?" 

"She  is  a  woman  who  resembles  no  one  but  herself," 
said  Madame  Dupasquier. 

"But  what  have  we  ever  done  to  her?"  asked  Amalia. 
"What  could  have  made  her  come  to  this  house  when  all 
she  did  while  she  was  here  was  to  mortify  everyone  in 
it;  and  that,  when  she  knew  neither  me  nor  Eduardo?" 

"Ah,  cousin!  all  our  labor  has  been  in  vain;  that  woman 
came  with  a  purpose  to  your  house ;  she  must  have  received 
some  information;  she  must  have  had  some  suspicion  re- 
garding Eduardo,  and  unhappily  she  has  just  discovered 
everything !" 


PROLOGUE  OF  A  DRAMA  213 

"But  what  has  she  discovered?" 

"Everything,  AmaHa.  Do  you  suppose  that  her  leaning 
her  hand  on  Eduardo's  left  thigh  was  accidental?" 

"Ah !"  exclaimed  Florencia ;  "yes,  yes ;  she  knew  some- 
thing about  a  wound  in  the  left  thigh!" 

The  ladies  and  Eduardo  looked  at  one  another  in 
amazement. 

Daniel  continued  calmly  and  with  the  same  seriousness 
as  before: 

"True;  that  was  the  only  sign  she  had  of  the  man  who 
escaped  from  the  assassins  on  the  night  of  the  4th  of  May. 
She  cannot  have  come  to  this  house  without  some  sinister 
purpose.  The  moment  she  arrived  she  eyed  Eduardo  from 
head  to  foot ;  she  addressed  no  one  but  him ;  and  when  she 
saw  that  we  all  tried  to  prevent  her  from  conversing  with 
him  she  sought  by  a  single  coup  to  discover  the  truth  and 
she  leaned  on  the  wounded  limb  in  order  to  read  in 
Eduardo's  countenance  the  result  of  the  pressure  of  her 
hand.  Only  the  devil  himself  could  have  suggested  such 
a  thought  to  her  and  she  has  gone  away  perfectly  convinced 
that  nothing  but  pressure  on  a  freshly  healed  wound  would 
have  caused  Eduardo  the  pain  which  she  saw  she  caused 
him,  and  which  she  observed  with  delight." 

"But  who  could  have  told  her  of  it  ?" 

"Let  us  not  talk  of  that  now,  my  poor  Amalia.  I  am 
perfectly  convinced  of  the  truth  of  what  I  say,  and  I  know 
that  we  are  all  standing  now  on  the  brink  of  a  precipice. 
Meanwhile,  there  is  one  thing  that  must  be  done  imme- 
diately." ! 

"What  is  that?"  exclaimed  the  ladies,  who  were  hanging 
on  Daniel's  words. 

"Eduardo  must  leave  this  house  at  once  and  come 
with  me." 


214  AMALIA 

•  "Oh,  no/'  exclaimed  Eduardo,  rising  to  his  feet,  his  eyes 
flashing  haughtily,  and  placing  himself  at  his  friend's  side 
by  the  chimney-piece. 

''No,"  he  continued.  ''Now  I  comprehend  all  the 
malignity  of  that  woman's  actions;  but  it  is  for  the  very 
reason  that  I  believe  that  I  have  been  discovered  that  1 
think  I  ought  to  remain  in  this  house." 

"Not  one  minute  longer,"  answered  Daniel,  with  the 
calmness  which  was  habitual  with  him  in  difficult 
circumstances. 

"And  she,  Daniel?"  replied  Eduardo,  nervously. 

"She  cannot  save  you." 

"No;  but  I  may  be  able  to  save  her  from  some  insult." 

"And  so  saving  her,  ruin  you  both." 

"No ;  I  will  ruin  myself  only." 

"I  will  take  care  of  her." 

"But  will  they  come  here?"  asked  Amalia  looking 
anxiously  at  Daniel. 

"Within  a  couple  of  hours,  within  an  hour,  perhaps." 

"Ah,  my  God!  Yes,  Eduardo,  go  away  instantly;  I  en- 
treat you  to  do  so,"  cried  Amalia,  rising  and  approaching 
the  young  man;  an  action  instinctively  imitated  by 
Florencia. 

"Yes,  with  us,  you  will  come  with  us,  Eduardo,"  said 
the  beautiful  and  generous-hearted  girl. 

"Aly  house  is  yours,  Eduardo,  my  daughter  has  spoken 
for  me,"  added  Madame  Dupasquier. 

"In  Heaven's  nam.e,  sefiora,  no,  no.  If  only  for  the  sake 
of  my  honor.  Honor  commands  me  to  remain  at  Amaha's 
side." 

"I  cannot  say  with  certainty  that  anything  will  happen 
to-night,"  said  Daniel,  "but  I  fear  it;  and  should  that  be 
the  case  Amalia  will  not  be  alone;  for  within  an  hour  I 
will  return  here  to  remain  with  her.'* 


PROLOGUE  OF  A  DRAMA  215 

"But  Amalia  can  come  with  us/'  said  Florencla. 

"No,  she  must  remain  here  and  I  with  her,"  answered 
Daniel  "If  the  night  passes  without  incident  to-morrow 
I  will  work  hard,  since  Seilora  Dona  Maria  Josefa  has 
worked  so  hard  to-day.  At  all  events  let  us  lose  no  time. 
Get  your  hat  and  cloak,  Eduardo,  and  come  with  us." 

"No." 

"Eduardo!  This  is  the  first  favor  I  have  ever  asked 
from  you.  Allow  yourself  to  be  guided  by  Daniel  to-night, 
and  to-morrow — to-morrow  we  shall  see  each  other  again, 
whatever  may  be  the  fate  that  Heaven  has  in  store  for  us." 

As  she  uttered  these  words  there  was  in  Amalia's  eyes, 
humid  with  sensibility,  so  tender,  so  melancholy  an  expres- 
sion of  entreaty  that  Eduardo's  resolution  gave  way  before 
it  and  his  lips  could  only  frame  the  words : 

"Very  well,  I  will  go." 

Florencia  clapped  her  hands  joyfully  and  ran  into  the 
adjoining  room  to  get  her  hat  and  shawl,  saying,  as  she 
returned : 

"Home,  home,  Eduardo." 

Daniel  gazed  at  her,  enchanted  by  her  generosity  of 
spirit,  and  with  a  smile  full  of  affection  and  sweetness, 
he  said: 

"No,  angel  of  goodness,  neither  to  your  house  nor  to  his 
own.  In  either  of  them  he  might  be  sought.  He  will  go 
somewhere  else;  that  shall  be  my  affair." 

"But  within  an  hour  you  will  be  with  Amalia  again?" 
asked  Eduardo. 

"Yes,  within  an  hour." 

"Amalia,  this  is  the  first  sacrifice  I  have  ever  made 
for  you  but  I  ask  you  to  believe,  by  the  memory  of  my 
mother,  that  it  is  the  greatest  I  could  ever  make." 

"Thanks,  thanks,  Eduardo !  Who  could  ever  believe  that 
fear  could  find  a  place  in  your  heart  ?    Besides,  if  I  should 


ai6  AMALIA 

need  an  arm  to  defend  me  you  cannot  doubt  that  Daniel 
would  take  your  place.'* 

Happily  Florencia  did  not  hear  these  words,  as  she  had 
gone  into  the  adjoining  room  for  her  mother's  cloak. 

A  few  minutes  later  the  hall  door  of  Amalia's  house  had 
been  securely  fastened,  and  old  Pedro,  to  whom  Daniel 
had  given  some  instructions  before  leaving  the  house,  was 
pacing  back  and  forth  between  the  hall  and  the  courtyard 
against  one  of  the  walls  of  which  rested  Eduardo's  double- 
barreled  gun  and  a  cavalry  carbine,  while  from  the  belt 
of  the  veteran  of  the  War  of  Independence  hung  a  hand- 
some dagger. 

Eduardo's  servant,  meantime,  was  seated  on  the 
threshold  of  one  of  the  doors  opening  into  the  yard,  await- 
ing the  orders  of  the  soldier  who,  in  accordance  witR 
Daniel's  instructions,  was  not  to  open  the  hall  door  to 
anyone  until  his  return. 


CHAPTER  XXI 

A  RESTLESS  NIGHT 

In  Spite  of  all  Daniel's  efforts,  he  found  it  impossible 
to  return  to  Barracas  within  an  hour,  having  had  to  accom- 
pany Madame  Dupasquier  and  her  daughter  home  in  their 
carriage;  to  take  Eduardo  to  a  considerable  distance  from 
the  Calle  de  la  Reconquista,  and  on  foot,  in  order  not  to 
betray  to  the  coachman  the  secret  of  his  place  of  hiding; 
to  go  back  to  his  own  house,  give  some  orders  to  his 
servant,  and  have  his  horse  saddled,  before  returning. 

So  that  it  was  half-past  nine,  that  is  to  say,  an  hour 
and  a  half  after  he  had  left  his  cousin's  house,  when  he 
descended  the  Barranca  of  Balcarce,  absorbed  in  thought, 
and  almost  convinced  that  Dona  Maria  Josefa's  visit  had 
been  the  result  of  information  received  by  her  regarding 
the  secret  they  had  so  long  succeeded  in  keeping  unsus- 
pected, and  that  the  old  woman,  the  spy  of  her  brother-in- 
law,  had  now  acquired  the  certainty  of  the  truth  of  the 
mformation  she  had  received. 

"How  avert  the  storm,  my  God!"  said  Daniel  to  himself, 
anxious  and  afraid,  for  the  first  time  in  his  life,  at  the 
thought  of  the  dangers  that  menaced  the  beings  dearest 
to  his  heart. 

As  he  reached  the  road  leading  from  the  Boca  to  Santa 
Lucia,  he  saw  a  party  of  six  men  on  horseback  turn  into 
the  Calle  Larga  and  gallop  rapidly  up  the  street. 

217 


218  AMALIA 

A  secret  presentiment  seemed  to  warn  him  that  these 
men  were  in  some  way  connected  with  his  affairs;  and, 
acting  on  a  sudden  impulse,  he  reined  in  his  horse  just 
as  they  came  up  with  him,  and  waited  until  they  had 
passed  him.  But  when  they  were  some  fifty  paces  in  ad- 
vance he  again  put  spurs  to  his  horse,  and  followed  them 
at  a  gallop,  always  keeping  the  same  distance  behind  them. 

"Ah!  I  was  not  mistaken,"  he  cried,  as  he  saw  the  six 
horsemen  ride  up  to  Amalia's  door,  dismount  and  knock 
loudly  on  it,  first  with  the  knocker  and  then  with  the 
handles  of  their  whips. 

Before  they  had  time  to  repeat  the  knocks  Daniel  had 
pushed  his  horse  among  the  group  and  in  a  firm  and  resolute 
voice  asked: 

*'What  is  the  matter,  gentlemen?" 

"What  is  the  matter?    And  who  are  you?" 

"It  is  I  who  have  the  right  to  ask  you  that  question. 
You  are  here  with  a  warrant,  are  you  not?" 

"Yes,  sefior,  with  a  warrant,"  said  one  of  the  men, 
approaching  Daniel  and  e3^eing  him  from  head  to  foot,  as 
the  young  man  dismounted  with  a  resolute  air  from  his 
horse  and  called  out  in  an  imperious  voice: 

"Open,  Pedro." 

The  six  men  had  gathered  around  Daniel,  not  knowing 
what  to  do,  each  waiting  for  one  of  the  others  to  take 
the  initiative. 

The  door  was  opened  on  the  instant  and  Daniel,  thrust- 
ing aside  the  two  men  who  were  in  front  of  it,  entered 
resolutely,  saying: 

"Come  in,  gentlemen." 

They  all  followed  him  quickly  into  the  house. 

Daniel  then  opened  the  door  of  the  parlor  and  entered  it. 

The  six  men  followed  him  into  the  room,  dragging  their 


A  RESTLESS  NIGHT  219 

sabers  over  the  rich  carpet,  in  which  the  rowels  of  their 
spurs  made  furrows. 

AmaHa,  who  was  standing  with  a  pale  face  beside  the 
round  table  when  the  door  opened,  turned  suddenly 
crimson  when  she  saw  the  men  who  followed  Daniel  ap- 
proach her  with  their  hats  on  and  the  repulsive  stamp 
of  plebeian  insolence  on  their  countenances.  But  a  swift 
glance  from  her  cousin  made  her  comprehend  that  she 
must  maintain  absolute  silence. 

The  young  man  took  off  his  poncho  and  threw  it  on  a 
chair,  displaying  ostentatiously  the  red  waistcoat  which  at 
this  time  began  to  be  used  by  the  most  enthusiastic  among 
the  Federals,  and  the  large  badge  which  he  wore  on  his 
breast,  and  turning  to  the  six  men,  who  had  not  yet  been 
able  to  form  a  clear  idea  of  what  they  were  to  do,  said: 

"Who  is  the  leader  of  this  party?" 

"I  am,"  said  one  of  them,  approaching  Daniel. 

"You  are  an  officer?" 

"An  orderly  of  Commandant  Cuitino's." 

"You  have  come  to  arrest  a  man  in  this  house?" 

"Yes,  sefior,  we  have  come  to  search  the  house  and  to 
take  him  away  with  us." 

"Very  well ;  read  that,"  said  Daniel  to  Cuitino's  orderly, 
handing  him  a  paper  which  he  had  taken  from  his  pocket. 

The  soldier  unfolded  the  paper,  looked  at  it,  examined 
on  all  sides  a  seal  which  was  affixed  to  it,  and  handing  it 
to  another  of  the  soldiers,  said  to  him: 

"Read  it,  you  who  know  how." 

The  soldier  approached  the  lamp  and  spelling  out  the 
words,  syllable  by  syllable,  at  last  read: 

"Long  live  the  Federation! 

"Long  live  the  Illustrious  Restorer  of  the  Laws! 

"Death  to  the  filthy,  loathsome  Unitarians! 


220  AMALIA 

"Death  to  the  turncoat  Rivera  and  the  filthy  French! 

"SociEDAD  Popular  Restauradora. 
"The  bearer,  Daniel  Belle,  is  in  the  service  of  the  Socie- 
dad  Popular  Restauradora;  and   whatever  he  does   must 
be  to  the  advantage  of  the  Sacred  Cause  of  the  Federation, 
because  he  is  one  of  its  best  servants. 

"Julian  Gonzalez  Salomon,  President. 

"BoNEO,  Secretary. 
"Buenos  Ayres,  June  lo,  1840." 

"Now  then,"  said  Daniel,  looking  at  Cuitifio's  soldiers, 
who  were  now  in  a  state  of  the  greatest  perplexity,  "who 
is  the  man  you  are  seeking  in  this  house,  which  is  the 
same  as  if  it  were  my  own  house,  and  in  which  Unitarian 
savages  have  never  been  concealed?" 

Cuitifio's  orderly  was  about  to  answer  when  suddenly 
all  eyes  were  turned  toward  the  door  at  the  noise  made 
by  the  hoofs  of  five  or  six  horses  entering  the  tiled  hall 
and  by  the  clanking  of  the  sabers  and  spurs  of  their  riders, 
as  they  dismounted  and  entered  the  parlor  tumultuously. 

Mechanically  Amalia  placed  herself  at  Daniel's  side, 
while  her  little  maid  Luisa,  who  was  standing  beside  her, 
clung  to  the  arm  of  her  mistress. 

"Dead  or  alive !"  cried  their  leader,  entering  the  parlor. 

"Neither  dead  nor  alive,  Commandant  Cuitino,"  said 
Daniel. 

"Has  he  fled?" 

"No,  those  who  flee,  Sefior  Commandant,"  answered 
Daniel,  "are  the  Unitarians  who  not  being  able  to  meet  us 
face  to  face  are  working  in  secret  to  mislead  us  and  to 
sow  discord  among  us.  With  their  tricks  and  the 
maneuvers  they  are  learning  from  the  gringos,  the  house 
of  a  Federal  is  no  longer  safe;  and  at  the  rate  at  which 


A  RESTLESS  NIGHT  221 

we  are  going,  to-morrow  they  will  inform  the  Restorer 
that  in  the  house  of  Commandant  Cuitino,  the  best  sword 
of  the  Federation,  some  Unitarian  savage  is  concealed  also. 
This  is  my  house,  Commandant,  and  this  lady  is  my  cousin. 
I  live  here  most  of  the  time,  and  I  have  no  need  to  declare 
it  upon  oath,  to  be  believed,  when  I  say  that  where  I 
am  no  Unitarian  can  be  hidden.  Pedro,  take  these  gentle- 
men through  the  house,  and  let  them  search  wherever  they 
choose." 

"Let  no  one  stir  from  here,"  cried  Cuitino  to  the  soldiers, 
who  were  preparing  to  follow  Pedro.  "The  house  of  a 
Federal  must  not  be  searched,"  he  continued;  "you  are  as 
good  a  Federal  as  I  am,  Sefior  Don  Daniel.  But  tell  me 
how  it  is  that  Dona  Maria  Josef  a  has  deceived  me?" 

"Dona  Maria  Josef  a?"  said  Daniel,  with  well-feigned 
surprise. 

"Yes,  Dona  Maria  Josefa." 

"But  what  has  she  told  you.  Commandant?" 

"She  has  just  told  me  that  the  Unitarian  who  escaped 
from  us  that  night  was  hidden  here;  that  she  herself  saw 
him  this  evening,  and  that  his  name  is  Belgrano." 

"Belgrano !" 

"Yes,  Eduardo  Belgrano." 

"It  is  true  that  Eduardo  Belgrano  was  here  this  evening; 
he  came  to  pay  a  visit  to  my  cousin,  as  he  occasionally  does. 
But  I  have  seen  that  young  man,  whom  I  know  very  well, 
all  this  time  in  the  city,  whole  and  sound;  and  the  man 
who  escaped  that  night  cannot  be  in  a  condition  to  go  about 
amusing  himself,"  said  Daniel,  looking  with  a  significant 
smile  at  Cuitino. 

"What  the  devil  does  this  mean,  then?  Am  I  the  sort 
of  man  to  be  trifled  with  in  this  way?" 

"It  is  the  Unitarians,  Commandant,  who  want  to  sow 


222  AMALIA 

discord  among  the  Federals;  they  must  have  told  some 
story  to  Dona  Maria  Josefa,  for  the  women  do  not  know 
them  as  well  as  we  do  who  have  to  be  fighting  with  them 
every  day.  But  no  matter;  search  for  that  young  man, 
who  lives  in  the  Calle  del  Cabildo,  and  if  he  is  the  Unitarian 
who  escaped  that  night  you  will  have  no  difficulty  in  recog- 
nizing him.  Meanwhile,  I  am  going  to  see  Dona  Maria 
Josefa  and  Don  Juan  Manuel  himself,  to  know  if  we  are 
to  go  about  now  searching  one  another's  houses." 

"No,  Don  Daniel,  take  no  step  in  the  matter.  It  is  the 
Unitarians,  as  you  say,"  answered  Cuitifio,  who  believed 
Daniel  to  have  great  influence  with  the  Rosas  family. 

"What  will  you  take.  Commandant?" 

"Nothing,  Don  Daniel ;  all  I  want  is  that  this  lady  should 
not  be  angry  with  me;  but  we  didn't  know  whose  house 
this  was." 

Amalia  acknowledged  the  apology  only  by  a  slight  move- 
ment of  the  head;  for  she  was  completely  confounded,  less 
by  the  presence  of  Cuitiiio  than  by  Daniel's  extraordinary 
audacity. 

"You  are  going  then,  Commandant?" 

"Yes,  Don  Daniel,  and  I  won't  even  take  back  any  answer 
to  Dofia  Maria  Josefa." 

"You  are  right;  those  are  women's  notions;  nothing 
more." 

"Good-night,  sefiora,"  said  Cuitino,  bowing  to  Amalia 
and  leaving  the  room,  followed  by  his  whole  party  and 
accompanied  by  Daniel,  to  mount  horse  again. 


CHAPTER  XXII 

CONTINUATION  OF  THE  PRECEDING 

Amalia  was  Still  standing  beside  the  table  when  Daniel, 
after  Cuitino's  departure,  returned  to  the  parlor,  laughing 
like  a  boy,  and  going  up  to  his  cousin,  embraced  her  with 
the  affection  of  a  brother. 

''Forgive  me,  Amalia,"  he  said;  ''these  are  acts  of  moral 
and  political  heresy  which  I  am  obliged  to  commit  at  every 
step  in  this  time  of  universal  acting,  in  which  I  play  one 
of  the  most  extraordinary  roles.  Poor  creatures!  They 
have  the  strength  of  the  brute  but  I  have  the  intelligence 
of  the  man.  Now  they  are  thrown  off  the  scent,  my 
Amalia;  and  above  all,  now  they  are  in  a  state  of  anarchy. 
Cuitino  will  now  pay  no  attention  to  what  Dona  Maria 
Josef  a  may  say  about  this  matter;  and  the  old  woman  will 
be  enraged  with  Cuitino." 

"But  where  is  Eduardo?" 

"In  a  perfectly  safe  place." 

"But  will  they  go  to  his  house?" 

"Of  course  they  will  go  to  his  house." 

"Has  he  any  papers  ?" 

"None." 

"And  you  and  I,  how  do  we  stand?" 

"Badly." 

"Badly?" 

"Badly;  we  have  been  in  a  very  bad  position  ever  since 
this  evening.     But  there  is  nothing  to  be  done  but  to  let 

223 


224  AMALIA 

events  take  their  course,  and  try  to  find  in  them  the  means 
of  protecting  ourselves  against  whatever  dangers  may 
threaten  us." 

''Well,  but  when  shall  I  see  Eduardo?" 

'Within  a  few  days." 

"A  few  days!  But  was  it  not  agreed  that  we  were  to 
see  each  other  to-morrow?" 

"Yes,  but  it  was  not  agreed  that  Cuitino  was  to  visit 
us  to-night." 

"No  matter;  if  he  does  not  come  here  I  will  go  to  him." 

"Softly.  I  can  neither  promise  nor  deny  you  anything. 
Everything  will  depend  on  the  results  of  the  visit  of  the 
demon  we  had  here  this  evening.  Don't  imagine  that  the 
old  woman  will  be  satisfied  to  let  matters  stand  as  Cuitino 
has  left  them;  on  the  contrary,  she  will  be  more  enraged 
now  than  ever,  and  will  give  us  all  trouble.  There  is  one 
thing,  however,  which  tranquilizes  me." 

"What  is  that,  Daniel  ?" 

"That  Rosas  and  his  friends  have  a  great  deal  to  think 
about  just  now." 

"What  has  happened  ?     Finish  for  Heaven's  sake !" 

"Nothing;  a  trifle,  my  dear  Amalia,"  said  Daniel,  smooth- 
ing the  hair  over  the  forehead  of  his  cousin,  who  was  sitting 
beside  him  by  the  fire. 

"But  what  is  it?    You  are  insufferable." 

"Thanks," 

"It  is  true;  you  are  laughing." 

"That  is  because  I  am  happy." 

"Happy?" 

"Yes." 

"And  you  have  the  courage  to  tell  me  so?" 

"Yes." 

"But  why  are  you  happy?  Because  we  are  all  standing 
over  a  volcano?" 


CONTINUATION  OF  THE  PRECEDING      225 

"No;  I  am  happy — listen  well  to  what  I  am  going  to 
say  to  you." 

"I  am  listening." 

"Very  well;  but  first,  Luisa,  tell  Eduardo's  servant  that 
as  his  master  is  not  here  I  will  take  a  cup  of  tea  in  his 
place." 

"I  repeat  it,  you  are  insufferable,"  said  Amalia,  when 
Luisa  had  left  the  room. 

"I  know  it,  but  I  told  you  that  I  was  happy  and  that 
I  would  tell  you  why.     Did  I  not?" 

"I  don't  know,"  said  Amalia,  with  a  pout. 

"Well,  then,  I  am  happy,  in  the  first  place  because 
Eduardo  is  concealed  in  a  safe  house;  and  in  the  second 
because  Lavalle  is,  with  the  knowledge  and  consent  of 
everybody,  in  the  good  city  of  San  Pedro." 

"Already !"  exclaimed  Amalia,  her  eyes  radiant  with  joy, 
taking  her  cousin's  hand  in  hers. 

"Yes,  already.  The  army  of  the  Liberators  has  already 
entered  the  Province  of  Buenos  Ayres.  It  is  only  thirty 
leagues  distant  from  the  tyrant,  and  it  seems  to  me  that 
that  is  too  important  a  matter  not  to  engage  the  attention 
of  our  Restorer." 

"Oh !  but  if  that  is  the  case  we  shall  be  free !"  exclaimed 
Amalia,  pressing  her  cousin's  hand. 

"Who  knows,  child,  who  knows !  That  will  depend  upon 
the  manner  in  which  operations  are  conducted." 

"Oh,  my  God !  To  think  that  within  a  few  days  Eduardo 
will  be  free  from  danger.  Can  it  be  true,  Daniel,  that  in 
three  days  Lavalle  may  be  in  the  city  of  Buenos  Ayres?" 

"No,  not  so  soon.  But  he  may  be  here  in  a  week  or 
even  in  six  days.    But  he  may  also  never  be  here,  Amalia." 

"Oh,  do  not  say  that,  for  Heaven's  sake!" 

"Yes,  Amalia,  yes.  If  they  take  advantage  of  the  popular 
feeling  at  the  present  moment  and  invade  the  city  at  any 


226  AMALIA 

point  Rosas  will  not  take  the  field  at  the  head  of  the 
insignificant  forces  which  support  him.  No;  if  the  city 
is  attacked  Rosas  will  go  on  board  one  of  the  vessels  in 
the  harbor  and  fly  the  country.  But  if  General  Lavalle 
delays  to  fight  in  the  province  then  fortune  may  prove 
adverse  to  him.  In  this  paper,  which  is  a  copy  of  the 
order  of  the  army,"  continued  Daniel,  taking  a  paper  from 
his  pocketbook,  "Lavalle  declares  that  within  a  very  few 
days  the  fate  of  the  republic  will  be  decided." 

"And  tell  me,  imprudent  boy,  how  is  it  that  you  come 
to  have  that  paper  in  your  pocket?"  cried  Amalia. 

"I  have  just  received  it  in  the  house  where  I  left 
Eduardo." 

"And  what  house  is  that?" 

"Oh,  nothing  less  than  the  house  of  a  Government 
official." 

"Good  Heavens !  You  have  placed  Eduardo  in  the  house 
of  an  employee  of  Rosas?" 

"No,  senora,  in  the  house  of  an  employee  of  mine." 

"Of  yours?" 

"Yes — but  silence — a  horse  has  just  stopped  at  the  door 
— Pedro!"  cried  Daniel,  going  out  into  the  hall. 

"Senor?"  answered  the  faithful  veteran  of  the  War  of 
Independence. 

"There  is  someone  at  the  door." 

"Shall  I  open,  senor?" 

"Yes ;  they  are  knocking  now ;  open,"  and  Daniel  seated 
himself  again  beside  his  cousin. 

Amalia  had  grown  very  pale. 

Daniel  awaited,  tranquil  and  self-reliant  as  usual,  the 
new  event  which  seemed  to  have  come  to  complicate  the 
situation  of  his  friends  and  his  own ;  for  at  this  hour,  near 
twelve  o'clock  at  night,  no  one  would  come  to  this  solitary 


CONTINUATION  OF  THE  PRECEDING      227 

house,  except  in  connection   with  the  events  which  pre- 
occupied him. 

Pedro  entered  the  parlor  with  a  letter  in  his  hand. 

*'A  soldier  has  brought  this  letter  for  the  senora/*  he 
said. 

"Is  he  alone?"  asked  Daniel. 

"Yes,  senor." 

"Did  you  look  up  and  down  the  street  to  see  if  anyone 
was  in  sight?'' 

"There  is  no  one  in  sight.'' 

"Very  well ;  go  back  and  be  on  the  watch." 

"Open  it,"  said  Amalia,  handing  the  letter  to  her  cousin. 

"Ah!"  exclaimed  Daniel,  when  he  had  opened  the  letter. 
"Look  at  this  signature;  it  is  that  of  a  great  personage, 
an  acquaintance  of  yours." 

"Marino !"  exclaimed  Amalia,  turning  crimson. 

"Yes,  Marino.     Am  I  still  to  read  it?" 

"Read  it;  read  it." 

Daniel  read  as  follows: 
"Sefiora : 

"I  have  just  learned  that  you  have  become  involved  in 
a  very  disagreeable  affair,  and  one  in  some  degree  danger- 
ous to  your  tranquillity.  The  authorities  have  received  in- 
formation that  you  had,  concealed  in  your  house  for  a 
long  time,  an  enemy  of  the  Government,  a  fugitive  from 
justice. 

"It  is  known  that  this  person  is  no  longer  in  your  house ; 
but  as  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  you  are  aware  of  his 
hiding-place  I  do  not  doubt  but  that  you  will  be  subjected 
to  a  rigorous  examination  by  the  authorities. 

"In  so  difficult  a  situation  I  do  not  doubt  but  that  you 
will  need  a  friend;  and  as,  awing  to  my  position,  I  have 
some  influence,  I  hasten  to  offer  you  my  services  in  the 


228  AMALIA 

entire  confidence  that  should  you  accept  them  you  will 
thenceforward  be  free  from  every  danger. 

"To  obtain  this  result  it  will  only  be  necessary  for  you 
to  place  your  confidence  in  me,  deigning  to  inform  me  at 
what  hour  to-morrow  you  will  grant  me  the  honor  of  an 
interview  in  order  that  we  may  agree  upon  the  course  to 
be  taken  in  the  present  emergency.  Advising  you  that  your 
letter  as  well  as  my  visit  and  the  visits  which  I  may  in  the 
future  make  you  will  be  enveloped  in  the  most  profound 
secrecy " 

*'0h !  enough,  enough !"  exclaimed  Amalia,  making  a 
movement  as  if  to  snatch  the  letter  from  her  cousin's  hands. 

**No,  no,  wait.    There  is  something  more." 

Daniel  continued: 

"For  some  time  past  powerful  motives,  which  perhaps 
with  your  intelligence  you  will  have  already  divined,  have 
made  me  seek,  but  in  vain,  the  opportunity  which  now 
presents  itself  to  me,  of  being  able  to  offer  you  my  services 
with  the  most  profound  submission  and  respect  and  with 
the  friendship  with  which  your  obedient  servant  salutes  you. 

"Nicolas  Marino." 

"That  is  all,"  said  Daniel,  looking  at  his  cousin  with 
the  most  quizzical  expression  that  it  would  be  possible  for 
the  human  countenance  to  wear. 

"But  it  is  more  than  enough  to  show  that  that  man  is  an 
insolent  scoundrel !" 

"That  may  be  so.  But  as  every  letter  requires  an  answer, 
it  will  be  well  to  know  what  answer  the  letter  of  this  man 
is  to  receive." 

"What  answer?     Here,  give  me  the  letter." 

"No." 

"Oh,  give  it  to  me !" 

"And  what  for?" 

"To  answer  it  with  its  fragments." 


CONTINUATION  OF  THE  PREDECING      229 

"Bah !" 

"Oh,  my  God!  To  be  insulted  too!  To  ask  letters 
and  secret  interviews  from  me!"  exclaimed  Amalia,  cover- 
ing her  face  with  her  hands. 

Daniel  rose,  went  into  the  library,  and  a  few  minutes 
later  returned  to  Amalia,  saying: 

"This  is  the  answer  we  are  to  give  him.    Listen: 

"Senor: 

"Authorized  by  my  cousin,  Sefiora  Dona  Amalia  Saenz 
de  Olabarrieta,  to  answer  your  letter,  it  gives  me  pleasure 
to  inform  you  that  you  need  no  longer  allow  your  fears 
regarding  my  cousin's  safety  to  disturb  you,  as  she  is 
entirely  ignorant  of  everything  that  is  attributed  to  her 
and  perfectly  tranquil  in  regard  to  the  justice  of  his  Ex- 
cellency the  Governor,  whom  I  shall  have  the  honor  of 
acquainting  to-morrow  with  all  that  has  taken  place  to- 
night, concealing  nothing  from  him,  in  case  thio  disagree- 
able affair  should  proceed  any  further. 

"With  which  I  remain  yours  respectfully, 

"etc.  etc." 

"But  that  letter — -" 

"This  letter  will  keep  him  awake  for  the  rest  of  the 
night,  trembling  lest  to-morrow  it  should  fall  into  the  hands 
of  Rosas,  to  avoid  which  he  will  do  all  in  his  power  to- 
morrow to  have  this  matter  dropped.  And  thus  it  is  that 
I  convert  our  enemies  into  our  servants." 

"Oh,  yes,  send  that  letter." 

Daniel  folded  the  letter  and  sent  it  to  the  soldier  who 
was  waiting  at  the  street  door. 

Half  an  hour  later  Daniel  was  lying  down,  without  hav- 
ing undressed,  in  Eduardo's  bedroom,  and  Amalia  was 
kneeling  before  her  gold-inlaid  ebony  crucifix,  praying  for 
the  safety  of  those  she  loved  and  for  her  country's  freedom. 


CHAPTER  XXIII 

Oli'  HOW  THINGS  ARE  READ  THAT  ARE  NOT  WRITTEN 

On  the  morning  of  the  day  following  the  night  on  which 
the  events  that  we  have  just  related  took  place,  that  is  to 
say,  on  the  morning  of  the  6th  of  August,  the  Dictator's 
house  was  besieged  by  innumerable  messengers  from  the 
field,  who  succeeded  one  another  without  intermission. 

None  of  them  was  detained  in  the  office,  General  Cor- 
valan  having  received  orders  to  conduct  them  at  once  to 
the  study  of  Rosas.  And  his  Excellency's  aid-de-camp, 
with  his  sash  falling  over  his  abdomen,  his  epaulets  hanging 
down  his  back  and  his  sword  dangling  between  his  legs, 
went  ceaselessly  back  and  forth  through  the  courtyard, 
ready  to  drop  with  sleep  and  fatigue. 

The  countenance  of  the  Dictator  reflected  the  gloom  that 
was  in  his  soul.  He  read  the  dispatches  of  his  chiefs  in 
the  field,  informing  him  of  General  Lavalle's  disembarka- 
tion and  of  his  enthusiastic  reception  by  the  planters,  and 
he  gave  the  orders  which  he  deemed  expedient,  for  the 
campaign,  for  the  general  encampment  at  Santos  Lugares, 
and  for  the  city.  But  suspicion,  that  viper  that  unceasingly 
gnaws  the  heart  of  the  tyrant,  infused  doubt  and  fear  into 
all  his  arrangements,  into  every  hour  and  moment  of  the 
day  and  night. 

He  despatched  an  order  to  General  Pacheco  to  retreat 
toward  the  south,  and  half  an  hour  later  he  sent  after  the 
messenger  in  hot  haste  to  countermand  the  order. 

He  ordered  Maza  to  march  with  his  battalion  to  rein- 

230 


HOW  THINGS  ARE  READ  231 

force  Pacheco,  and  ten  minutes  later  he  ordered  Maza  to 
prepare  to  march  with  all  the  artillery  to  Santos  Lugares. 

He  appointed  officers  of  the  day  for  the  command  of  the 
city  troops,  and  each  appointment  was  revoked  and  another 
substituted  for  it  twenty  times  in  the  course  of  the  day; 
and  so  it  was  with  everything. 

His  poor  daughter  who  had  passed  the  whole  night  in 
vigil  would  put  her  head  in  at  the  door  of  her  father's 
study  from  time  to  time,  to  see  if  she  could  divine  in  his 
countenance  some  anticipated  success  that  might  chase 
away  the  gloom  that  had  shadowed  it  for  so  many  hours 
past. 

Vigua  had  twice  put  his  deformed  head  in  at  the  study 
door,  but  his  Excellency's  buffoon  had  seen  in  the  coun- 
tenances of  the  clerks  that  this  was  not  a  day  for  jesting 
with  the  m.aster;  and  he  contented  himself  with  sitting 
down  in  the  hall  and  eating  the  grains  of  Indian  corn  that 
from  time  to  time  fell  around  him  from  the  great  mortar 
in  which  the  Dictator's  mulatto  cook  was  grinding  the  corn 
for  her  master's  breakfast. 

Rosas  was  engaged  in  writing  a  letter,  and  the  clerks 
were  writing  others  when  Corvalan  entered  and  said: 

''Will  your  Excellency  receive  Sefior  Mandeville?" 

"Yes,  let  him  come  in." 

A  moment  later  her  Britannic  Majesty's  Minister  en- 
tered, bowing  profoundly  to  the  Dictator  of  Buenos  Ayres, 
who,  without  taking  the  trouble  to  return  his  salutation, 
rose  and  passing  from  the  study  into  his  bedroom,  said: 

"Come  this  way." 

Rosas  sat  down  on  his  bed  and  the  minister  took  a 
chair  to  his  left. 

"Your  Excellency  is  in  good  health?"  asked  the  minister. 

"I  am  in  no  mood  to  talk  of  health,  Senor  Mandeville." 


232  AMALIA 

"Yet  that  is  what  is  of  most  importance,"  answered  the 
diplomat,  smoothing  the  nap  of  his  hat. 

"No,  Senor  Mandeville;  what  is  of  most  importance  is 
that  Governments  and  their  Ministers  should  fulfill  their 
promises." 

"Doubtless." 

"Doubtless?  Well,  your  Government  and  you,  or  you 
and  your  Government,  have  done  nothing  but  lie  to  me  and 
compromise  my  cause." 

"Oh,  your  Excellency,  that  is  very  strong  language!" 

"It  is  what  you  deserve,  Senor  Mandeville." 

"I  ?" 

"Yes,  senor,  you.  You  have  been  promising  me  for  a 
year  and  a  half  past,  in  the  name  of  your  Government,  to 
mediate  or  intervene  in  this  cursed  French  Question.  And 
which  is  it  you  or  your  Government  that  has  deceived  me?" 

"Your  Excellency,  I  have  shown  you  the  original  letters 
which  I  have  received  from  my  Government." 

"Then  it  is  your  Government  that  has  lied.  The  fact  of 
the  matter  is  that  devil  a  thing  either  of  you  has  done 
for  my  cause,  and  that,  owing  to  the  French,  Lavalle  is 
to-day  within  twenty  leagues  of  the  city,  and  the  whole 
republic  is  in  arms  against  my  Government," 

"Oh!  the  conduct  of  the  French  is  unparalleled!" 

"Don't  be  a  fool.  The  French  do  as  they  ought  to  do, 
because  they  are  at  war  with  me.  It  is  you  English  who 
have  behaved  with  treachery  toward  me.  What  are  you 
the  enemies  of  the  French  for?  What  have  you  so  many 
ships  and  so  much  money  for,  if  when  the  occasion  arrives 
to  help  a  friend,  you  are  afraid  of  them?" 

"Afraid,  no,  your  Excellency.  But  the  peace  of  Europe, 
the  balance  of  power  on  the  Continent " 

"The  balance   of   power   be   damned!     You   and   your 


HOW  THINGS  ARE  READ  233 

countrymen  destroy  the  balance  of  power  often  enough 
and  no  one  says  anything  to  you  about  it.  Treachery,  and 
nothing  but  treachery ;  because  you  are  all  aHke.  Or  per- 
haps you  and  your  countrymen  are  Unitarians  also,  like 
the  French?" 

"Not  that,  not  that,  your  Excellency.  I  am  a  loyal 
friend  to  your  Excellency  and  to  your  cause.  And  your 
Excellency  has  the  proof  of  it  in  my  conduct." 

"In  your  conduct  when,  Sefior  Mandeville?" 

"In  my  conduct  now." 

"And  what  is  your  conduct  now?" 

"I  am  here  now  to  offer  your  Excellency  my  personal 
services,  in  whatever  you  may  wish  to  command  me." 

"And  what  would  you  do  for  me  if  my  cause  should 
chance  to  be  lost?" 

"I  would  have  troops  disembark  from  her  Majesty's 
ships  to  protect  the  persons  of  your  Excellency  and  of 
your  Excellency's  family." 

"Bah !  and  do  you  suppose  that  the  thirty  or  forty  Eng- 
lishmen who  should  land  would  be  respected  by  the  people, 
if  they  were  to  rise  against  me?" 

"But  if  the  troops  were  not  respected  by  the  people  the 
consequences  would  be  terrible  for  them." 

"Yes.  And  a  great  deal  of  good  it  would  do  me  for 
the  English  to  bombard  the  city  after  I  had  been  shot! 
That  is  not  the  way  to  help  a  friend,  Senor  Mandeville." 

"Nevertheless " 

"Nevertheless,  if  I  were  the  English  Minister,  if  I  were 
Mandeville,  and  you  Juan  Manuel  Rosas,  what  I  would 
do  would  be  to  have  a  boat  lying  ready  at  the  foot  of 
the  barranca  on  which  I  lived,  so  that  when  my  friend 
Rosas  came  to  my  house  I  could  easily  put  him  on  board 
a  vessel." 


234  AMALIA 

"Oh,  very  good,  very  good ;  I  will  do  so." 
"No,  I  am  not  telling  you  to  do  so.     I  have  no  need 
whatever  of  you.     I  only  say  what  I  would  do  if  I  were 
in  your  place." 

"Very  well,  your  Excellency.  Your  Excellency's  friends 
will  guard  your  safety  while  your  Excellency's  genius  and 
valor  guard  the  destinies  of  this  beautiful  land  and  the 
righteous  cause  which  you  support.  Has  your  Excellency 
had  news  from  the  provinces  of  the  interior?" 

"And  what  do  the  provinces  matter  to  me,  Senor 
Mandeville  ?" 

"The  events  taking  place  in  them,  however " 

"The  events  taking  place  in  them  do  not  matter  to  me 
a  damn.  Do  you  suppose  if  I  conquer  Lavalle  and  force 
him  to  retire  to  the  provinces  that  I  have  a  great  deal  to 
fear  from  the  Unitarians  who  have  risen  against  me  there  ?" 

"To  fear,  no;  but  the  prolongation  of  the  war! " 

"That  is  what  would  assure  my  victory,  Senor  Mande- 
ville; the  only  dangers  that  threaten  my  Government  are 
those  close  beside  me;  the  dangers  that  are  at  a  distance 
and  are  of  long  continuance  far  from  doing  me  harm,  are 
of  advantage  to  me." 

"Your  Excellency  is  a  genius." 

"At  least  I  have  more  understanding  than  the  diplomats 
of  Europe.  A  pity  for  the  Federation  if  it  had  to  be 
defended  by  men  like  you !  Do  you  know  why  the  Uni- 
tarians went  to  the  devil?" 

"I  think  so,  your  Excellency." 

"No,  senor,  you  do  not  know." 

"Perhaps  I  may  be  mistaken." 

"Yes,  senor,  you  are  mistaken.  They  went  to  the  devil 
because  they  had  become  Frenchmen  and  Englishmen." 

"Oh!  the  internecine  wars!" 


HOW  THINGS  ARE  READ  235 

*'Our  wars,  say." 

*'Well,  then,  the  American  wars." 

"No,  the  Argentine  wars." 

"The  Argentine  wars,  then." 

"Those  require  men  like  me." 

"Undoubtedly." 

"If  I  triumph  over  Lavalle  here,  I  can  afford  to  laugh 
at  the  rest  of  the  republic." 

"Your  Excellency  knows  that  General  Paz  has  marched 
against  Corrientes  ?" 

"You  see!     You  see  what  fools  the  Unitarians  are!" 

"True;  General  Paz  will  be  able  to  do  nothing." 

"No;  it  is  not  that  he  will  be  able  to  do  nothing.  He 
will  be  able  to  do  a  great  deal.  It  is  for  another  reason 
that  they  are  fools.  They  are  fools  because  one  goes  in 
one  direction  and  another  in  another;  and  they  quarrel  and 
disagree  among  themselves,  instead  of  all  uniting  together 
and  coming  down  upon  me,  as  Lavalle  has  done." 

"Providence,  your  Excellency." 

"Or  the  devil.  But  you  were  going  to  say  something 
about  the  provinces." 

"True,  your  Excellency." 

"And  what  is  it?" 

"Has  your  Excellency  had  any  news  of  La-Madrid  or 
of  Brizuela?" 

"None  of  recent  date." 

"I  have  received  some  news  of  a  late  date  from 
Montevideo." 

"When?" 

"Last  night." 

"And  you  come  at  twelve  o'clock  to-day  to  tell  me  of  it  ?" 

"No,  senor.    It  is  ten." 

"Well,  then,  at  ten." 


236  AMALIA 

"I  am  always  tardy  where  your  Excellency's  welfare 
is  not  concerned." 

''Your  news  is  bad,  then?" 

"Exaggerations  of  the  Unitarians." 

"And  what  is  it?  Finish,"  said  Rosas  with  ill-concealed 
uneasiness. 

"One  of  my  private  letters  contains  this  passage,"  said 
the  minister,  taking  some  papers  from  his  pocket  and  select- 
ing one  which  he  prepared  to  read — "But  first,  does  your 
Excellency  wish  me  to  read  it?" 

"Read,  read." 

"  'At  the  beginning  of  July  General  La-Madrid  entered 
Cordoba  at  the  head  of  three  thousand  five  hundred  men 
and  ten  pieces  of  artillery.  Santa  Catahna  and  Rio  Seco 
are  in  arms  and  the  Governor  and  Captain  General  of 
Rioja  has  issued  a  proclamation  to  his  compatriots  inciting 
them  to  fight  like  heroes  in  defense  of  Argentine  liberty.' " 

"Have  you  heard  anything  else?" 

"The  dissensions  between  Rivera  and  the  Argentine 
emigrants,  between  Rivera  and  Lavalle;  between  the 
friends  of  the  Deputy  Governor  and  Rivera,  and  between 
everyone  in  general  continue  to  produce  prodigious  results 
in  the  neighboring  republic." 

"I  know  it.    And  from  Europe?" 

"From  Europe?" 

"Yes;  I  am  not  talking  Greek." 

"I  believe,  your  Excellency,  that  the  Eastern  Question 
has  become  more  complicated  than  ever  and  that  the  efforts 
of  my  Sovereign's  Government  will  soon  bring  about  a 
satisfactory  termination  to  the  unjust  quarrel  provoked  by 
the  French  with  your  Excellency's  Government." 

"That  is  just  what  you  told  me  a  year  ago." 

"But  now  I  have  positive  facts." 


HOW  THINGS  ARE  READ  237 

"The  same  as  always." 

*The  Eastern  Question " 

"Don't  talk  to  me  any  more  about  the  Eastern  Question, 
Senor  Mandeville." 

"Very  well,  your  Excellency." 

"That  the  devil  may  take  them  all  is  what  I  wish." 

"Affairs  are  very  gravely  complicated." 

"Are  they?  Very  good;  and  have  you  heard  anything 
else?" 

"For  the  present,  nothing  else,  your  Excellency.  I  am 
expecting  the  packet  daily." 

"Then  you  will  excuse  me,  for  I  have  something  to  do," 
said  Rosas  rising. 

"I  would  not  have  your  Excellency  lose  a  moment  of 
your  precious  time." 

"Yes,  Senor  Mandeville,  I  have  a  great  deal  to  do,  for 
my  friends  don't  know  how  to  help  me  in  anything." 

And  Rosas  left  the  room,  followed  by  the  minister. 

Rather  from  absent-mindedness  than  civility  Rosas  ac- 
companied the  minister  to  the  door  of  the  antechamber 
which  opened  into  the  hall  where  they  found  Manuela  giv- 
ing some  orders  to  the  mulatto  woman  who  was  still  busy 
at  her  task  of  pounding  the  corn. 

At  this  moment  Dona  Maria  Josefa  appeared  upon 
the  scene. 

"Manuela,"  said  Rosas,  after  salutations  had  been  ex- 
changed, "accompany  Senor  Mandeville  to  the  door;  or 
take  him  to  the  salon  if  he  wishes.  Good-bye,  then,  for 
the  present,  my  friend.  I  am  very  busy,  as  you  know, 
but  I  am  always  your  friend." 

"I  am  greatly  honored  in  believing  so,  your  Excellency; 
and  I  will  not  forget  what  your  Excellency  would  do  if 
you  were  in  my  place,  and  I  in  your  Excellency's,"  said 


238  AMALIA 

the  minister,  emphasizing  the  last  words  to  show  Rosas 
that  he  bore  in  mind  his  project  about  the  boat. 

**Do  as  you  hke.    Good  day." 

And  Rosas  returned  to  his  study  accompanied  by  his 
sister-in-law,  while  the  minister  gave  his  arm  to  Manuela 
and  proceeded  with  her  to  the  salon. 

"Good  news,"  said  Dona  Maria  Josefa  to  Rosas  as  they 
entered  the  room. 

"About  what?" 

"About  the  man  who  escaped  us  on  the  4th  of  May." 

"Have  they  caught  him?"  asked  Rosas  with  flashing  eyes. 

"No." 

"No?" 

"But  we  shall  catch  him;  Cuitino  is  an  ass." 

"But  where  is  he?" 

"Let  us  go  and  sit  down  first,"  said  the  old  woman, 
passing  with  Rosas  from  the  study  into  the  bedroom. 


CHAPTER  XXIV 

HOW  WE  DISCOVER  THAT  DON  CANDIDO  RODRIGUEZ  RESEMBLES 
DON  JUAN   MANUEL  ROSAS 

On  the  same  morning  on  which  the  events  recorded  in 
our  last  chapter  took  place,  our  old  friend  Don  Candido 
Rodriguez  was  walking  up  and  down  the  hall  of  his  house 
near  the  Plaza  Nueva  enveloped  in  a  raisin-colored  great 
coat  which  had  been  his  companion  in  his  frights  of  the 
year  1820;  with  a  cotton  cap  pulled  down  over  his  ears; 
two  large  orange  leaves  stuck  to  his  temples  with  tallow; 
a  pair  of  old  cloth  shoes,  which  served  him  as  slippers,  on 
his  feet;  and  his  hands  thrust  into  the  pockets  of  his 
great  coat. 

The  irregularity  of  his  steps,  the  dark  rings  around  his 
eyes,  and  the  swift  changes  of  his  countenance  gave  evidence 
that  he  had  spent  a  sleepless  night  and  that  he  was  just 
now  carrying  on  an  animated  dialogue  with  himself. 

A  double  knock  at  the  door  caused  him  to  stop  suddenly 
in  his  walk. 

He  approached  the  door,  looked  through  the  keyhole 
before  inquiring  who  had  knocked,  and  seeing  only  the 
torso  of  a  man  he  ventured  to  ask  in  a  perceptibly  tremulous 
voice : 

"Who  is  there?" 

*T,  my  dear  master." 

"Daniel?" 

"Yes,  Daniel;  open." 

"Open?" 


240  AMALIA 

"Yes,  in  the  name  of  all  the  saints;  that  is  what  I  have 
said." 

**Is  it  indeed  you,  Daniel?" 

"I  think  so;  do  me  the  favor  to  open  and  you  will 
see  me." 

"Listen ;  place  your  face  in  a  direct  line  with  the  keyhole ; 
but  at  the  distance  of  a  foot  or  two  from  it,  so  that  I 
may  be  able  to  look  at  you  and  recognize  you." 

Daniel  thought  for  an  instant  of  giving  the  door  a  kick, 
and  breaking  open  the  lock,  but  for  an  instant,  only,  and 
did  as  his  uncompromising  master  directed. 

"Ah !  it  is  indeed  you !"  said  Don  Candido,  and  he  opened 
the  door. 

"Yes,  sefior;  it  is  I;  I  who  have  a  great  deal  too  much 
patience  with  you." 

"Wait,  stop,  Daniel;  go  no  further,"  exclaimed  Don 
Candido,  taking  his  pupil  by  the  hand. 

"What  the  devil  does  this  mean,  Sefior  Don  Candido? 
Why  must  I  go  no  further?" 

"Because  I  have  something  very  serious  to  say  to  you, 
Daniel.  Who  is  this  man  whom  you  have  introduced  into 
my  house?" 

"Is  that  what  you  are  going  to  talk  about  now!  Don't 
you  know  him  already?" 

"I  knew  him  when  he  was  a  boy,  as  I  knew  you  and  so 
many  others;  when  he  was  a  child,  tender  and  innocent, 
like  every  child.  But  how  do  I  know  what  his  present 
life  is;  what  his  opinions,  what  his  associations  are?  Can 
I  believe  that  he  is  an  innocent  man  when  you  bring  him 
here  to  my  house,  in  the  silence  and  darkness  of  the  night, 
and  order  me  to  allow  no  one  to  see  him  and  to  speak  to 
no  one  about  him?  Can  I  believe  that  he  is  a  friend  of 
the  Government  when  I  see  him  without  a  single  Federal 


DON  CANDIDO  RESEMBLES  DON  JUAN    241 

badge  and  wearing  a  blue  and  white  cravat?  Ought  I 
not  to  deduce  conclusively  from  all  this  that  there  is  here 
some  political  intrigue,  some  conspiracy,  some  plot,  in  which 
I  am  taking  part  without  knowing  it  and  without  desiring 
it ;  I,  a  quiet,  tranquil  and  peaceable  man ;  I,  who  on  account 
of  my  present  important  and  delicate  position  as  secretary 
of  his  Excellency,  Minister  Arana,  a  most  excellent  person, 
as  are  his  lady  and  every  one  of  his  respectable  family 
and  even  of  his  servants,  ought,  perforce,  of  necessity,  to 
be  circumspect  and  faithful  to  my  official  duties.  Do  you 
think " 

"I  think  you  have  lost  your  senses,  Seiior  Don  Candido ; 
and  as  I  do  not  wish  to  lose  mine,  or  to  lose  any  more 
of  my  time,  we  will  now  consider  our  conference  at  an  end 
and  you  will  permit  me  to  go  see  Eduardo." 

"But  how  long  is  he  to  be  in  my  house?" 

"As  long  as  God  wills." 

"But  that  cannot  be." 

"It  will  be,  however." 

"Daniel !" 

"Sefior  Don  Candido,  my  distinguished  master,  let  us 
state,  in  a  few  words,  the  position  of  everyone." 

"Yes,  let  us  do  so." 

"Listen  to  me.  To  shield  you  from  the  dangers  to  which 
you  might  be  exposed  from  the  Federation  in  these  days, 
I  obtained  for  you  the  position  of  private  secretary  to 
Sefior  Arana;  is  not  that  true?" 

"Perfectly  true." 

"Very  well,  then;  it  is  very  probable  that  Senor  Arana, 
together  with  all  his  secretaries,  will  some  day  or  other  be 
hanged,  not  by  order  of  the  authorities,  but  by  order  of 
the  people,  who  may  rise  in  rebellion  against  Rosas  at  any 


242  AMALIA 

"Oh !"  exclaimed  Don  Candido,  opening  wide  his  eyes. 

''Hanged,  yes,  senor,"  repeated  Daniel. 

'The  secretaries  also?" 

"The  secretaries  also." 

"That  would  be  frightful" 

"The  secretaries  and  the  minister,  all  together." 

"So  that  if  I  resign  my  position  as  secretary,  the 
Mashorca  will  assassinate  me;  and  if  I  do  not  resign  it, 
the  people  will  hang  me;  and  in  addition  to  that,  in  either 
case,  a  misfortune  may  happen  to  me  by  mistake." 

"Exactly;  that  is  sound  logic." 

"Diabolical  logic,  Daniel;  logic  that  will  cost  me  my  life 
on  your  account!" 

"No,  senor,  it  will  cost  you  nothing  if  you  will  do  what 
I  tell  you." 

"And  what  am  I  to  do?     Speak." 

"I  am  going  to  state  the  question  in  another  way.  We 
have  now  arrived  at  the  critical  moment  of  the  war,  in 
which  Rosas  must  conquer  Lavalle  or  Lavalle  must  con- 
quer Rosas;  is  not  that  true?" 

"Certainly,  that  is  true." 

"Well,  then,  in  the  former  case  you  have  in  Don  Felipe 
Arana  a  support  that  will  enable  you  to  continue  in  your 
present  state  of  prosperity;  and  in  the  latter,  you  have  in 
Eduardo  the  best  shears  with  which  to  cut  the  rope  of  the 
people." 

"In  Eduardo?" 

"Yes,  and  there  is  no  need  to  say  any  more  about  the 
matter  now,  nor  to  return  to  it  again." 

-So  that " 

"So  that  you  must  keep  Eduardo  in  your  house  until  I 
determine  otherwise." 

"But " 


DON  CANDIDO  RESEMBLES  DON  JUAN    243 

"A   less   generous   man   than   I   would  purchase  your 
secrecy  saying  to  you,  Sefior  Don  Candido,  the  order  of 
the  army  of  Lavalle,  which  you  gave  me  last  night,  copied 
in  your  own  handwriting,  was  most  important;  and  at  the 
slightest  indiscretion  you  commit  this  document  will  pass 
into  the  hands  of  Rosas,  Senor  Don  Candido — — " 
"Enough,  enough,  Daniel!" 
"Very  good,  enough.    We  are  agreed,  then?" 
"Agreed.     But  do  you  think  I  run  any  risk  at  present, 
Daniel?" 

"None  whatever." 

"Will  Eduardo  be  here  much  longer?" 

"Have  you  entire  confidence  in  Nicolasa?" 

"As  much  as   in  myself.     She   hates   all  those  people 

because  they  killed  her  son,  her  good,  loyal,  afifectionate 

son;  and  since  she  has  begun  to  suspect  that  Eduardo  is 

in  hiding  she  waits  on  him  with  more  care,  more  zeal,  more 

punctuality,  more " 

"Let  us  go  to  Eduardo's  room,  Senor  Don  Candido." 
"Let  us  go,  my  dear  and  esteemed  Daniel;  he  is  in  my 
study<" 


CHAPTER  XXV 

THE  TWO  FRIENDS 

"Let  us  go,  but  leave  me  at  the  door/*  said  Daniel, 
"I  wish  to  speak  with  Eduardo  alone." 

"Ah,  Daniel." 

"What  is  the  matter,   sefior?" 

"Nothing;  enter;  go  in;  I  will  go  to  the  parlor,"  said 
Don  Candido,  turning  back  as  Daniel  entered  the  room 
which  the  schoolmaster  called  his  study. 

"Good  day,  my  dear  Eduardo,"  said  Daniel  to  his  friend, 
who  was  sitting  in  Don  Candido's  old  armchair,  writing. 

"And  Amalia?"  cried  Eduardo. 

"Amalia  is  well,  thank  Heaven." 

"Daniel,  I  must  return  at  once  to  Barracas." 

"I  understand  that  you  should  desire  to  do  so,  but  I  must 
warn  you  that  if  you  do  you  will  find  yourself  alone  in 
the  house  when  you  arrive  there,  for  my  cousin  will  not 
be  in  it." 

"For  Heaven's  sake,  Daniel,  for  Heaven's  sake  don't 
make  my  situation  harder  to  bear  than  it  is !  You  do 
not  know  the  tortures  I  am  suffering  on  her  account." 

"Listen  to  what  I  have  to  tell  you,  Eduardo,  and  after 
you  have  heard  it  you  will  be  able  to  take  a  more  rational 
view  of  the  situation." 

And  Daniel  proceeded  to  inform  Eduardo  in  a  few  words 
of  the  events  of  the  preceding  night,  as  well  as  of  General 
Lavalle's  intended  invasion. 

"You  are  right,  you  are  right.     I  could  not  return  to 

244 


THE  TWO  FRIENDS  245 

Barracas  without  compromising  her,"  said  Eduardo,  when 
Daniel  had  ended,  leaning  his  elbow  on  the  table  and  rest- 
ing his  forehead  on  the  palm  of  his  hand. 

'That  is  talking  sensibly,  Eduardo.  There  is  now  no 
other  way  of  saving  Amalia  than  to  place  yourself  beyond 
the  power  of  Rosas;  for  even  if  I  could  save  her  from 
the  insults  of  the  Mashorca,  or  from  some  despotic  act  of 
the  tyrant,  I  should  be  unable  to  save  her  from  the  tyranny 
of  her  own  organization,  if  any  misfortune  should  befall 
you.  Amalia  loves  you  passionately.  Her  sensitive  nature 
and  her  exalted  imagination  would  make  the  knowledge 
fatal  to  her  life  or  to  her  health  were  she  to  know  that 
but  a  single  drop  of  your  blood  had  been  shed." 

"And  what  must  I  do,  Daniel,  what  must  I  do?" 

*ln  the  first  place,  give  up  the  thought  of  seeing  Amalia 
for  a  few  days." 

*'Very  well." 

"If  political  events  take  the  turn  we  desire,  then  you 
have  nothing  more  to  fear." 

"True." 

"If,  on  the  contrary,  they  do  not  take  that  turn,  then 
it  will  be  necessary  for  you  to  emigrate." 

"Alone?" 

"No,  you  will  not  go  alone." 

"Will  Amalia  go  with  me?  Do  you  think  AmaUa  will 
be  willing  to  accompany  me?" 

"Yes,  I  am  certain  she  will.  But  in  addition  to  Amalia, 
there  are  others  of  your  friends  who  will  go  with  you." 

"Oh,  yes,  let  us  go  to  another  land,  Daniel;  the  air  of 
our  country  is  fatal  to-day  to  her  children;  it  stifles  us." 

"No  matter;  we  must  breathe  it  as  best  we  can  until  all 
hope  is  lost." 

"But  what  if  the  issue  should  be  long  delayed?" 


246  AMALIA 

"That  would  be  impossible.'* 

*'It  might  easily  happen,  however.  Some  unlooked-for 
occurrence  may  interrupt  the  operations  of  Lavalle,  and 
then " 

"Then  everything  will  be  lost;  for  delay  in  the  present 
condition  of  affairs  would  be  ruin  for  Lavalle.'' 

"May  I  come  in  for  a  moment,  my  dear  and  esteemed 
pupil?"  said  Don  Candido,  putting  the  tassel  of  his  white 
cap  in  at  the  study  door,  which  he  had  partly  opened. 

"Come  in,  my  dear  and  esteemed  master,"  returned 
Daniel. 

"Something  has  happened,  Daniel;  an  event,  an  occur- 
rence  " 

"Will  you  do  me  the  favor  to  tell  me  at  once  what  it 
is,  Senor  Don  Candido?" 

"You  must  know,  then,  that  I  was  walking  up  and 
down  the  hall  just  now — for  when  I  have  a  headache,  as 
I  have  at  present,  it  relieves  me  to  walk  up  and  down, 
and  also  to  apply  a  poultice  of  orange  leaves  to  the  temples. 
For  you  must  know,  my  sons,  that  orange  leaves  smeared 
with  tallow,  have  on  my  organization  the  specific 
virtue " 

"Of  making  you  well  and  everybody  else  ill.  What  has 
happened?"  asked  the  impatient  Daniel. 

"I  am  coming  to  that." 

"Come  to  it  at  once,  then.  In  the  name  of  all  the  saints !" 

"I  am  coming  to  it,  hothead,  I  am  coming  to  it.  I  was 
walking  up  and  down  the  hall  just  now,  as  I  said,  when 
I  heard  someone  stop  outside  the  street  door.  I  approached 
it,  undecided,  hesitating,  doubtful.  I  asked  who  was  there. 
I  assured  myself  of  the  identity  of  the  person  who  an- 
swered me,  and  then  I  opened  the  door,  and  who  do  you 
suppose  it  was,  Daniel?" 


THE  TWO  FRIENDS  247 

•I  don't  know,  but  I  should  be  glad  if  it  had  been  the 
devil,  Senor  Don  Candido,"  said  Daniel,  controlling  his 
impatience  by  an  effort. 

''No,  it  was  not  the  devil,  for  he  seems  to  have  been 
holding  me  by  the  coattail  for  a  long  time  past,  Daniel. 
It  was  Fermin,  your  loyal,  your  faithful,  your " 

"Fermin  is  outside?" 

**Yes,  he  is  in  the  hall;  he  says  he  wishes  to  speak 
to  you." 

"Will  you  finish,  in  the  devil's  name !"  exclaimed  Daniel, 
starting  to  his  feet  and  hurrying  out  of  the  room. 

"What  a  temper !  It  will  be  his  ruin  yet.  Listen, 
Eduardo,  you  who  seem  to  be  more  circumspect — although 
since  you  left  school,  where  you  were  peaceable,  quiet  and 
studious,  I  have  not  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting  you  often 
— it  is  necessary  for  you  to  exercise  a  great  deal  of  caution 
in  the  present  situation.  Tell  me,  why  do  you  not  go  this 
very  day  to  study  with  the  Jesuits,  and  devote  yourself  to 
the  ecclesiastical  career?" 

"Senor,  will  you  do  me  the  favor  to  leave  me  in  peace?" 

"Ah,  wicked  man !  So  you  too  are  like  your  friend  ? 
And  what  is  it  you  seek,  misguided  youths,  in  the  tortuous 
path,  on  the  steep  descent  on  which  you  have  launched 
yourselves?    What  do  you  desire " 

"We  desire  that  you  shall  leave  us  alone  for  a  moment, 
Don  Candido,"  said  Daniel,  who  had  entered  the  room  just 
as  his  worthy  master  was  beginning  the  valiant  apostrophe 
he  had  interrupted. 

"Does  any  danger  threaten  us,  Daniel?"  asked  Don  Can- 
dido, looking  timidly  at  his  pupil  ? 

"None  whatever.  They  are  matters  that  concern  no  one 
but  Eduardo  and  me." 

"But  we  three  form  to-day  a  single  and  indivisible  body." 


248  AMALIA 

"No  matter,  we  will  divide  it  temporarily.  Do  us  the 
favor  to  leave  us  alone." 

"Remain  alone,"  said  Don  Candido,  extending  his  hand 
toward  the  two  young  men  and  slowly  leaving  the  room. 

"The  affair  is  becoming  more  serious,  Eduardo." 

"What  is  it?" 

"Something  about  Amalia." 

"Oh!" 

"Yes,  about  Amalia.  She  has  just  been  notified  that 
within  an  hour  the  police  will  make  her  a  domiciliary  visit ; 
and  she  has  sent  me  word  of  it  by  Fermin,  whom  I  sent 
to  Barracas  before  coming  here." 

"What  are  we  to  do,  Daniel?  But  oh,  how  can  I  ask 
what  we  are  to  do !    Daniel,  I  am  going  to  Barracas." 

"Eduardo,  this  is  no  time  for  follies.  I  love  my  cousin 
too  well  to  allow  anyone  to  bring  misfortune  upon  her," 
said  Daniel,  in  a  tone  and  with  a  look  so  serious  that  they 
impressed  Eduardo's  mind  strongly. 

"But  I  am  the  cause  of  the  insults  to  which  that  lady 
finds  herself  exposed,  and  it  is  I  who  ought  to  protect  her," 
answered  Eduardo  coldly. 

"Eduardo,  let  us  not  act  foolishly,"  repeated  Daniel, 
resuming  the  affectionate  manner  with  which  he  was  accus- 
tomed to  treat  his  friend;  "let  us  not  act  foolishly.  If 
the  question  were  to  defend  her  against  a  man,  against  any 
number  of  men,  sword  in  hand,  I  would  leave  to  you  with 
a  tranquil  mind  the  pleasure  of  fighting  them.  But  it  is 
against  the  tyrant  and  all  his  followers  that  we  must  defend 
her;  and  against  them  your  valor  is  powerless;  your 
presence  would  furnish  them  with  stronger  weapons  against 
Amalia,  and  you  would  be  able  neither  to  secure  my  cousin's 
tranquillity  nor  to  save  your  own  head." 

"You  are  right." 


THE  TWO  FRIENDS  249 

"Leave  me  to  act.  I  will  go  to  Barracas  at  once;  and 
to  force  I  will  oppose  strategy;  with  the  intelligence  of 
the  man  I  will  endeavor  to  throw  the  instinct  of  the  beast 
off  the  scent." 

"Very  well,  go:  go  quickly." 

"It  will  take  me  ten  minutes  to  go  home  for  my  horse, 
and  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  more  I  will  be  in  Barracas." 

"Very  well;  and  you  will  return? " 

"To-night." 

"Tell  her " 

"That  you  will  be  prudent  for  her  sake." 

"Tell  her  whatever  you  wish,  Daniel,"  said  Eduardo, 
walking  to  the  other  end  of  the  room,  perhaps  because  there 
was  something  in  his  eyes  which  he  did  not  wish  his  friend 
to  see.     When  he  turned  round  Daniel  had  left  the  room. 

It  was  now  eleven  o'clock  and  Don  Candido  began  to 
dress  to  go  to  Don  Felipe's  private  office. 


CHAPTER  XXVI 

AMALIA    IN    PRESENCE    OF    THE    POLICE 

On  reaching  his  house  Daniel  mounted  his  spirited  sorrel 
and  set  out  for  Barracas,  taking  the  shortest  road  and 
riding  at  full  speed  all  the  way;  but  his  efforts  were  in 
vain,  for  he  was  destined  to  arrive  late  at  the  villa. 

Shortly  after  his  departure  from  Barracas  that  morning 
Amalia  had  received  a  letter  announcing  a  visit  from  the 
police,  and  she  had  at  once  sent  Daniel  word  of  this  occur- 
rence by  Fermin,  distrusting  her  own  prudence  in  face 
of  the  insult  which  was  to  be  offered  to  her  house.  Five 
or  six  minutes  after  Fermin's  departure,  and  much  earlier, 
consequently,  than  Amalia  had  expected,  the  noise  of  horses 
stopping  at  the  door  of  the  villa  reached  her  ears. 

Alone  and  surrounded  by  dangers  which  menaced  also 
the  beloved  of  her  heart,  Amalia  gave  frank  expression 
to  the  feelings  natural  to  her  sex;  she  threw  herself,  pale 
and  trembling,  into  an  armchair,  struggling  however,  to 
master  her  emotion. 

Don  Bernardo  Victorica,  a  police  officer,  and  Nicolas 
Marino  presented  themselves  in  the  parlor,  ushered  in  by 
Pedro. 

Victorica,  that  man  abhorred  and  feared  by  all  who  did 
not  share  in  the  degradation  of  the  epoch,  was  less  vile, 
however,  than  was  generally  supposed.  And,  without  ever 
failing  in  the  severity  prescribed  to  him  by  the  Dictator's 
orders,  he  behaved,  whenever  he  could  do  so  without  com- 

250 


m  PRESENCE  OF  THE  POLICE  251 

promising  himself,  with  a  certain  civiUty,  a  sort  of  semi- 
tolerance,  which  would  have  been  criminal  in  the  eyes 
of  Rosas,  had  he  known  it,  but  which  was  manifested, 
nevertheless,  by  the  chief  of  police,  more  especially,  in  the 
exercise  of  his  functions  toward  persons  whom  he  believed 
to  be  compromised  by  information  prompted  by  self-interest 
or  by  the  excessive  rigor  of  the  Government. 

Holding  his  hat  in  his  hand  he  said  to  Amalia  with 
a  profound  bow: 

"Seiiora,  I  am  the  Chief  of  Police;  I  have  to  perform 
the  painful  duty  of  making  a  rigorous  search  of  this  house; 
it  is  the  Governor's  express  order.'' 

"And  have  these  other  gentlemen  also  come  to  search 
the  house?"  asked  Amalia,  pointing  to  Marifio  and  the 
police  officer. 

"Not  this  gentleman,"  answered  Victorica,  indicating 
Marino  by  a  gesture;  "the  other  gentleman  is  a  police 
officer." 

"And  may  I  know  whom  or  what  it  is  that  you  have 
come  to  seek  in  my  house,  by  the  Governor's  orders  ?" 

"I  will  tell  you  that  in  a  moment,"  answered  Victorica, 
with  a  very  serious  countenance ;  for  he  and  his  companions 
were  still  standing,  not  having  received  from  Amalia  any 
invitation  to  be  seated. 

Amalia  pulled  the  bell  and  said  to  Luisa,  who  appeared 
on  the  instant: 

"Go  with  this  gentleman  and  open  for  him  all  the  doors 
he  may  indicate  to  you." 

Victorica  with  a  bow  to  Amalia  followed  Luisa  through 
the  interior  apartments. 

As  soon  as  Victorica  and  the  police  officer  had  left  the 
room  Amalia,  without  deigning  to  raise  her  eyes  to  Marino's 
face,  said  to  him : 


252  AMALIA 

"You  may  be  seated  if  it  is  your  intention  to  wait  for 
Senor  Victorica." 

Amalia  was  not  rosy,  she  was  scarlet  at  this  moment. 
Marino  on  the  contrary  was  pale  and  ill  at  ease  in  the 
presence  of  this  woman  whose  beauty  fascinated  him  and 
whose  imperious  and  aristocratic  manners,  it  might  be  said, 
awed  him. 

**My  intention,"  said  Marino,  seating  himself  a  few  steps 
away  from  Amalia,  "my  intention  was  to  render  you  a 
service,  senora — a  great  service  in  the  present  circum- 
stances." 

"A  thousand  thanks,"  answered  Amalia,  drily. 

"Did  you  receive  my  letter  this  morning?" 

"I  received  a  paper  signed  by  Nicolas  Marino,  whom  I 
suppose  to  be  you." 

"Well,"  answered  the  Chief  of  the  Night-Watchmen, 
controlling  by  an  effort  the  displeasure  which  the  young 
woman's  scornful  reply  caused  him,  "in  that  letter,  that 
paper,  as  you  call  it,  I  hastened  to  inform  you  of  what 
was  going  to  take  place." 

"And  may  I  know  with  what  object  you  took  that  trouble, 
senor?" 

"In  order  that  you  might  take  such  measures  as  a  regard 
for  your  safety  might  suggest  to  you." 

"You  are  very  good  to  me ;  but  very  bad  to  your  political 
friends,  since  you  act  with  treachery  toward  them." 

"Treachery !" 

"So  I  think." 

"That  is  a  very  hard  word,  senora." 

"That  is  the  word,  however." 

"I  always  try  to  do  all  the  good  I  can.  Besides,  I  know 
that  there  could  be  no  man  in  this  house,  after  Cuithio's 
visit  last  night.     But  Dona  Maria  Josefa  Ezcurra,  who  is 


IN  PRESENCE  OF  THE  POLICE  253 

resolved  to  persecute  this  house,  while  I  am  equally  resolved 
to  protect  it,  went  this  morning  to  inform  the  Governor 
that  a  person  was  concealed  here  for  whom  the  authorities 
have  been  looking  for  a  long  time  past.  His  Excellency 
sent  for  Senor  Victorica  and  gave  him  the  order  which 
he  is  now  executing,  and  as  I  had  the  good  fortune  to  know 
what  was  passing  I  did  not  lose  an  instant  in  informing 
you  of  it,  determining,  at  the  same  time,  to  accompany 
Seiior  Victorica,  thinking  I  might  be  so  fortunate  as  to 
be  able  to  save  you  from  some  danger.  That  is  my  conduct, 
senora,  and  if  I  act  treacherously  toward  my  friends  the 
motive  which  I  have  for  doing  so  is  my  justification.  That 
motive  is  a  sacred  one;  it  springs  from  an  instantaneous 
sympathy  which  I  conceived  for  you  when  I  first  had  the 
happiness  of  seeing  you.  Since  that  time,  my  whole  life 
has  been  devoted  to  the  task  of  finding  a  means  of  ap- 
proaching this  house;  and  my  position,  my  fortune,  my 
influence " 

^'Neither  your  position  nor  your  influence  will  prevent 
me  from  leaving  you  alone,  however,  since  you  cannot  com- 
prehend that  your  presence  annoys  me,"  said  Amalia,  ris- 
ing and  drawing  away  her  chair  from  Marino's  and  then 
passing  through  the  library  into  her  bedroom,  where  she 
sat  down  on  the  sofa,  her  beautiful  face  glowing  with  out- 
raged pride. 

*'Ah !  I  will  have  my  revenge,  Unitarian !"  exclaimed 
Marino,  pale  with  anger. 

The  haughty  chatelaine  had  been  only  a  few  moments 
in  her  room  when  Victorica,  returning  with  Luisa  from 
his  investigation,  found  himself  once  more  in  Amalia's 
presence. 

''Senora,"  he  said  to  her,  "I  have  now  fulfilled  the  first 
part  of  my  orders;  and  fortunately  for  you  I  can  say  to 


^54  AMALIA 

his  Excellency  that  I  have  not  found  here  the  person  I 
came  to  seek." 

"And  may  I  know  who  that  person  is,  Senor  Chief  of 
Police?  May  I  know  why  I  am  insulted  by  having  my 
house  searched?" 

"Will  you  order  that  child  to  leave  the  room?" 

Amalia  made  a  sign  to  Luisa,  who  left  the  room,  but 
not  before  darting  an  angry  glance  at  Victorica. 

"Senora,  I  am  obliged  to  take  your  declaration,  but  I 
desire  to  avoid  in  your  case  all  the  customary  formalities, 
and  that  it  shall  be  rather  a  loyal  and  frank  conference." 

"Speak,  senor." 

"Do  you  know  Don  Eduardo  Belgrano?" 

"Yes,  I  know  him." 

"How  long  have  you  known  him?" 

"Two  or  three  weeks,"  answered  Amalia,  red  as  a  newly- 
blown  rose,  and  lowering  her  eyes,  ashamed  of  having,  for 
the  first  time  in  her  life,  to  tell  an  untruth. 

"He  was  seen  in  this  house  before  that  time,  however." 

"I  have  given  you  my  answer,  sefior." 

"Ca'n  you  prove  that  Don  Eduardo  Belgrano  has  not 
been  concealed  in  this  house  from  last  May  up  to  the 
present  time?" 

"I  shall  not  attempt  to  prove  anything  of  the  kind." 

"Then  it  is  true." 

"I  have  not  said  that." 

"But  you  say  that  you  will  not  attempt  to  prove  that 
he  was  not  here." 

"Because  it  is  your  place,  seiior,  to  prove  the  contrary." 

"And  do  you  know  where  he  is  at  present?" 

"I  do  not  know,  senor ;  but  if  I  did  I  would  not  tell  you," 
answered  Amalia,  lifting  up  her  head,  happy  and  proud 


IN  PRESENCE  OF  THE  POLICE  Q55 

that  an  opportunity  had  presented  itself  to  her  to  speak  the 
truth  frankly. 

"Are  you  aware  that  I  am  executing  an  order  of  the 
Governor's/*  asked  Victorica,  beginning  to  repent  of  his 
indulgence  toward  Amalia. 

"You  have  already  told  me  so." 

"Then  you  should  be  more  respectful  in  your  answers, 
sefiora." 

"Sefior,  I  know  very  well  the  respect  I  owe  to  others, 
and  also  the  respect  that  others  owe  to  me.  And  if  the 
Governor  or  Sefior  Victorica  desires  informers,  it  is  not 
in  this  house,  assuredly,  that  they  will  find  them." 

"You  do  not  betray  others  but  you  betray  yourself." 

"What  do  you  mean?" 

"You  forget  that  you  are  talking  with  the  Chief  of  Police 
and  you  are  very  frankly  revealing  your  Unitarian  zeal." 

"Ah,  sefior,  there  would  be  nothing  very  strange  in  my 
being  a  Unitarian  in  a  country  where  there  are  so  many 
thousands  of  them." 

"To  the  misfortune  of  their  country  and  their  own,"  said 
Victorica,  rising  to  his  feet,  furious;  "but  the  day  will 
come  when  there  will  not  be  so  many  of  them,  I  swear 
it  to  you." 

"Or  when  there  v/ill  be  more." 

"Sefiora!"  exclaimed  Victorica,  looking  menacingly  at 
Amalia. 

"What  is  the  matter,  sefior?" 

"You  take  advantage  of  your  sex." 

"As  you  do  of  your  position." 

"Are  you  not  afraid  to  speak  as  you  are  doing,  setiora?" 

"No,  senor.  In  Buenos  Ayres  only  the  men  are  afraid; 
the  women  know  how  to  defend  a  dignity  which  the  men 
have  forgotten." 


256  AMALIA 

"True ;  the  women  are  the  worst,"  said  Victorica  to  him- 
self. "Come,  let  us  finish,"  he  continued,  addressing 
Amalia;  "have  the  goodness  to  open  this  writing-desk." 

"What  for,  senor?" 

"I  must  comply  with  this  final  formality;  open." 

"With  what  formality?" 

"I  have  received  orders  to  examine  your  papers." 

"Oh,  this  is  too  much,  seiior ;  you  have  come  to  my  house 
in  search  of  a  man;  that  man  is  not  here;  and  I  must  tell 
you  that  I  will  consent  to  your  doing  nothing  further  in  it." 

Victorica  smiled  and  said:  "Open,  seiiora,  open  of  your 
own  accord." 

"No." 

"You  will  not  open?" 

"No,  no." 

Victorica  was  walking  toward  the  writing-desk,  the  key 
of  which  was  in  the  lock,  when  Marino,  who  had  heard 
the  interrogatory  from  the  library,  hurried  into  the  room, 
in  the  hope  of  conquering,  by  a  coup  de  theater,  the  heart 
of  the  haughty  Amalia. 

"My  dear  friend,"  he  said  to  Victorica,  "I  will  guarantee 
that  there  is  nothing  among  the  papers  of  this  lady  which 
compromises  our  cause." 

Victorica  was  drawing  away  his  hand  from  the  key  of 
the  desk,  and  Marino  thought  he  had  won  the  right  to 
the  gratitude  of  this  heart,  rebellious  to  his  tenderness, 
when  Amalia  hurried  to  the  desk,  opened  it  noisily,  took 
from  it  four  small  drawers  containing  letters,  jewels,  and 
money,  and  with  a  marked  expression  of  displeasure,  con- 
fronted Victorica,  turning  her  back  on  Marino,  and  said 
to  him: 

"Here  are  the  contents  of  that  desk;  examine  them  all." 

Marino  bit  his  lip  till  the  blood  came. 


m  PRESENCE  OF  THE  POLICE  257 

Victorica  glanced  at  the  objects  which  Amaha  showed 
him,  and  without  touching  any  of  them  said:  "I  have 
finished,  senora." 

Amaha  answered  only  by  a  sHght  incHnation  of  the  head 
and  returned  to  her  seat  on  the  sofa;  for  after  the  violent 
effort  she  had  just  made  she  felt  dizzy  and  faint. 

Victorica  and  Marino,  bowing  profoundly,  left  the  room 
and  went  to  join  the  police  officer,  who  was  waiting  for 
them  outside  the  house. 

And  it  was  just  as  they  were  remounting  their  horses  that 
Daniel  dismounted  from  his,  and,  after  a  polite  salutation 
to  Victorica  and  Marino,  entered  his  cousin's  house,  saying 
to  himself: 

"Bad ;  I  begin  to  arrive  late ;  that  is  a  bad  omen." 

Victorica,  on  his  part,  said  to  Marino: 

*That  man  must  know  all  about  it.  That  man  is  a 
Unitarian,  in  spite  of  his  father  and  of  all  he  is  doing." 

"Yes;  it  will  be  necessary  to  keep  a  watch  upon  him." 

"And  the  dagger  ready  to  strike,"  added  Marino;  and 
they  set  off  at  a  gallop  for  the  city. 


CHAPTER  XXVII 


MANUELA  ROSAS 


Next  to  her  father  Manuela  Rosas  is  the  most  striking 
figure  in  the  grand  historical  picture  of  the  Argentine 
dictatorship. 

In  1840  she  was  not  even  the  shadow  of  what  she  became 
later,  but  at  this  period  she  began  to  be  her  father's  chief 
victim  and  the  best  instrument,  without  knowing  it  and 
without  desiring  it,  of  his  diabolical  plans. 

Manuela  was  now  in  the  most  smiling  period  of  life — 
she  was  not  more  than  twenty-two  or  twenty-three  years 
of  age.  Tall  and  slender,  with  a  rounded  figure  and  grace- 
ful and  delicately  outlined  proportions,  an  American  type 
of  countenance,  pale,  with  dark  shadows  under  the  eyes, 
which  were  light  gray;  an  animated  and  intelligent  expres- 
sion; a  forehead  not  high,  but  well  shaped;  dark  chestnut 
hair,  abundant  and  fine;  a  straight  nose;  a  mouth  large 
but  fresh  and  piquant — such  was  Manuela  in  1840. 

In  disposition  she  was  gay,  easy  and  communicative. 
But  for  some  time  past  there  had  been  noticeable  in  her 
a  tinge  of  sadness,  of  melancholy,  of  discontent,  and  her 
sparkling  eyes  were  at  times  veiled  by  reddened  lids;  she 
wept,  but  she  wept  in  secret,  like  all  who  truly  suffer. 

Her  education  had  been  neglected  but  her  natural  en- 
dowments made  up  for  her  want  of  culture. 

Her  mother,  a  woman  of  ability  but  of  an  intriguing 
and    vulgar    disposition,    had    done    nothing    to    improve 

258 


MANUELA  ROSAS  259 

Manuela's  natural  gifts;  and,  left  motherless  two  years 
before  the  period  at  which  our  story  opens,  there  was  no 
human  being  to  take  an  interest  in  her  but  her  father,  for 
her  brother  was  an  ignorant  and  evil-disposed  churl;  and 
her  relatives  paid  a  great  deal  of  attention  to  Juan  Manuel, 
but  none  at  all  to  Manuela. 

Twice  already  had  her  heart  heard  at  its  closed  doors 
the  tender  serenade  of  love,  but  on  each  occasion  her 
father's  hand  had  drawn  the  bolts  upon  them,  and  the 
unhappy  girl  had  to  see  only  in  the  mirror  of  her  imagina- 
tion the  fairest  charms  of  a  woman's  life. 

Her  father  had  doomed  this  girl,  who  was  acquainted 
with  all  his  baseness,  all  his  intrigues  and  all  his  crimes, 
to  eternal  celibacy,  for,  with  the  young  girl's  heart,  he  would 
have  had  to  deliver  up  all  these  important  secrets. 

She  was,  besides,  his  guardian  angel ;  she  took  note  even 
of  the  movements  of  the  eyelids  of  those  who  approached 
her  father;  she  watched  over  the  house,  the  doors,  and 
even  the  food.  We  approach  this  unfortunate  woman  at 
the  hour,  after  the  candles  are  lighted,  when  her  salon  is 
thronged  with  people;  and  she  is  there  the  empress  of  that 
strange  court. 

The  principal  members  of  the  Sociedad  Popular  make 
their  customary  visit  at  this  time.  And  they  smoke,  swear, 
blaspheme  and  stain  the  carpet  with  their  muddy  boots 
and  with  the  water  that  drips  from  their  wet  ponchos. 

Here  the  democracy  of  the  Federation — Gaetan,  Moreira, 
Merlo,  Salomon,  Cuitiiio,  Parra,  smoke  and  converse  side 
by  side  with  the  deputies  Garcia,  Balaustegui,  Garrigos, 
Lahitte,  Medrano,  and  with  Generals  Mancilla,  Rolon  and 
Soler.  In  a  group  apart  Larrazabal,  Marino,  Irigoyen  and 
Gonzalez  Pena  are  conversing  together,  while  their  wives, 
enthusiastic  Federals,  their  sisters  and  their  other  female 


AMALIA 

relatives  and  friends  surround  Manuela  and  Dona  Maria 
Josefa  Ezcurra. 

Larrazabal  had  just  declared  loudly  that  he  is  waiting 
only  for  the  authorization  of  His  Excellency  to  be  the 
first  to  wet  his  dagger  in  the  blood  of  the  Unitarians. 

"This  is  to  speak  like  a  good  Federal,"  responded  Dona 
Maria  Josefa,  in  the  same  tone.  "It  was  owing  to  the 
tolerance  of  Juan  Manuel  that  the  Unitarians,  who  are 
now  coming  back  with  Lavalle,  were  able  to  leave  the 
country." 

"They  are  coming  to  their  death,  senora,"  answered  a 
Federal  brother,  "and  we  should  congratulate  ourselves 
upon  their  having  gone  away." 

"No,  seiior;  no,"  replied  Dona  Maria  Josefa.  "They 
will  only  be  imprisoned ;  it  would  have  been  better  to  have 
killed  them  before  they  went  away." 

"Just  so!"  cried  Salomon. 

"Yes,  sefior;  just  so,"  continued  the  old  woman.  "And 
Juan  Manuel's  clemency  is  not  the  worst  of  it;  for  when 
he  gives  an  order  to  arrest  some  Unitarian,  the  police  stand 
gaping  like  idiots  and  let  the  Unitarian  escape." 

The  old  woman's  eyes,  small,  red  and  piercing,  were 
fixed  on  Cuitifio,  who,  standing  within  two  paces  of  her, 
was  sending  a  volume  of  smoke  from  between  his  lips. 

"And  the  worst  of  it  is  not  that  they  let  the  Unitarians 
escape,"  she  continued ;  "for  when  the  good  servants  of  the 
Federation  tell  the  police  where  some  Unitarian  is  concealed, 
they  go  there  and  the  Unitarians  themselves  hoodwink  them 
as  if  they  were  children." 

Cuitifio  turned  his  back  upon  her. 

"Are  you  going,  Commandant  Cuitifio?" 

"No,  Sefiora  Doiia  Maria  Josefa;  but  I  know  what  I 
am  about." 


MANUELA  ROSAS  261 

"Not  always." 

"Yes,  senora,  always.  I  know  how  to  kill  Unitarians, 
and  I  have  given  proofs  of  it.  Because  the  Unitarians 
are  worse  than  dogs,  and  I  am  never  happy  except  when 
I  see  their  blood.     But  you  are  making  insinuations." 

"I  am  glad  that  you  have  understood  me." 

"I  know  what  I  am  about." 

"Commandant  Cuitifio  is  our  best  sword,"  said  Garrigos. 

"But  this  is  not  a  time  for  swords,"  returned  Dona 
Maria  Josefa,  "but  for  the  dagger.  It  is  by  the  dagger 
that  all  the  filthy  Unitarian  savages,  traitors  to  God  and 
to  the  Federation,  ought  to  die." 

"Just  so,"  assented  several  voices  in  chorus. 

"Apropos  of  dying,"  said  Marino,  in  an  undertone  to 
Soler,  "do  you  know.  General,  that  we  are  going  to  lose 
the  Rector  of  La  Piedad?" 

"I  heard  that  he  was  very  ill." 

"He  was  a  good  Federal." 

"And  a  better  drunkard." 

"In  any  case,  if  Lavalle  should  triumph  the  devil  would 
have  the  friar  within  a  couple  of  hours." 

"And  a  great  many  others  with  him." 

"You  and  me,  for  instance." 

"Possibly." 

"Everything  is  possible." 

"What  do  you  mean,  General?" 

"I  mean  that  the  worst  of  the  matter  is  that  we  cannot 
be  certain  that  he  will  not  triumph." 

"True." 

"Lavalle  is  brave  to  rashness." 

"But  we  have  three  times  as  many  men  as  he  has." 

"I  took  the  hill  of  Victoria  with  a  third  of  the  forces 
that  defended  it." 


262  AMALIA 

"But  they  were  Spaniards.'* 

"Just  so!  They  were  Spaniards,  which  means,  Senor 
Marino,  that  they  knew  how  to  fight  and  how  to  die 
fighting." 

"Our  soldiers  are  as  brave  as  they  are." 

"I  know  it.  And  they  may  be  conquered,  as  the  Spaniards 
were,  in  spite  of  their  bravery." 

"But  justice  is  on  our  side." 

"On  the  battlefield  there  is  no  such  thing  as  justice, 
Senor  Marino." 

"We  have  enthusiasm." 

"So  have  they.'' 

"So  that " 

"So  that  there  is  going  to  be  a  battle  and  the  devil  only 
knows  who  will  win  it." 

"General,  we  are  of  the  same  opinion." 

"I  know  it." 

"I  am  not  surprised  at  your  perspicacity,  General;  you 
have  had  a  great  deal  of  experience  in  revolutions." 

"I  have  grown  up  among  them." 

"But  none  of  them  could  ever  have  resulted  in  a  greater 
catastrophe  than  that  which  would  overwhelm  vis  Federals 
if  Lavalle  should  triumph." 

"It  would  be  all  over  with  us." 

"With  all  of  us." 

"Especially  with  you  and  me,  Senor  Marino." 

"Especially?" 

"Yes." 

"And  why  so,  General  ?" 

"Frankly?" 

"Yes,  frankly." 

"Because  they  hate  me,  why  I  do  not  knew,  and  you, 
because  you  are  a  Mashorquero." 


MANUELA  ROSAS  263 

**I  know  they  have  no  reason  to  love  me." 

"And  I  know  that  I  am  not  a  Mashorquero,  in  the  real 
meaning  of  the  word." 

"That  may  be,  but  as  we  are  not  going  to  be  judged 
by  a  tribunal  we  must  either  let  ourselves  be  killed  or  go 
into  exile." 

"And  exile  must  be  a  terrible  thing,  General  Solerl" 
exclaimed  Marino,  shaking  his  head. 

"That  is  precisely  the  word ;  I  have  gone  into  exile  several 
times  and  I  know  that  it  is  terrible." 

"We  must  all  resist  to  the  death,  then." 

"Who  knows  whether  all  are  to  be  relied  upon." 

"I  too  have  my  doubts  as  to  that." 

"Defections  are  to  be  looked  for  in  all  revolutions." 

"Ah!  secret  enemies  are  the  worst!" 

"The  hardest  to  contend  against." 

"But  they  don't  deceive  me.  There  you  have  one  of 
them." 

"Who?" 

"That  man  who  is  coming  in." 

"Why,  he  is  only  a  boy." 

"Yes,  a  boy  of  twenty-five.  Everyone  believes  him  to 
be  the  best  of  Federals,  but  my  opinion  is  that  he  is  noth- 
ing but  a  Unitarian  in  disguise." 

"He  is  of  no  consequence." 

"I  know  it,  but  he  is  a  Unitarian." 

"What  is  his  name?" 

"Bello;  Daniel  Bello;  he  is  the  son  of  a  true  Federal; 
a  planter;  a  partner  of  the  Anchorenas  and  a  man  of  great 
prestige  in  the  plains." 

"Then  he  is  well  protected." 


264  AMALIA 

"The  young  man  is,  besides,  a  great  protege  of  Salomon's, 
and  comes  and  goes  when  and  where  he  chooses." 

"Then,  my  friend,  we  must  salute  him,"  said  General 
Soler. 

"Yes,  but  he  is  a  marked  man,"  answered  Marino,  as 
they  went  to  join  the  others. 


CHAPTER  XXVIII 

CONTINUATION  OF  THE  PRECEDING 

It  was,  in  fact,  Daniel  Bello  who  had,  a  moment  before, 
entered  the  salon,  and  was  now  making  his  way  through 
the  crowd,  giving  handshakes  to  right  and  left,  to  pay  his 
respects  to  Manuela  and  the  Federal  ladies  of  her  court. 

Manuela  was  leaning  her  arm  on  one  of  the  elbows  of 
the  sofa  and  Daniel,  who  had  taken  the  chair  beside  the 
corner  in  which  she  was  seated,  by  bending  slightly  toward 
her  could  talk  to  her  without  being  heard  by  the  others. 

Beginning  with  a  few  complimentary  phrases,  to  which 
Manuela  responded  with  the  amiability  and  the  simplicity 
that  were  natural  to  her,  Daniel  adroitly  led  the  conversa- 
tion to  the  subject  which  he  had  come  to  speak  to  her 
about;  and  Manuela  herself  opened  the  way  directly  to  it, 
saying,  in  answer  to  a  remark  of  Bello's  concerning  the 
Federal  enthusiasm  displayed  by  her  court  and  their  devo- 
tion to  herself: 

"They  weary  me,  Senor  Bello.  I  lead  the  most  tiresome 
life  in  the  world.  I  hear  all  these  men  and  women  speak 
only  of  bloodshed  and  death.  I  know  that  the  Unitarians 
are  our  enemies.  But  what  need  is  there  to  keep  constantly 
repeating  it,  with  those  maledictions  that  sicken  me,  and 
above  all  with  the  expression  of  a  hatred  in  which  I  do 
not  believe,  for  these  people  are  incapable  of  real  passion. 
Besides,  what  necessity  is  there  for  them  to  come  here 
to  torment  my  mind  with  these  things,  keeping  away  from 

265 


me  AMALIA 

me  persons  of  my  own  sex  and  the  men  friends  whom 
I  should  like  to  have?" 

'True,  seiiorita/*  said  Daniel,  in  the  most  natural  tone 
in  the  world.  "True;  you  need  the  companionship  of  girls 
of  your  own  class,  with  tastes  congenial  to  your  own  to 
divert  your  mind  and  make  you  forget  for  a  time  the 
terrors  amidst  which  you  live  in  these  days,  terrible  for  all." 

*'Ah,  how  happy  I  should  be  then !" 

"I  know  a  woman  whose  disposition  v/ould  agree  per- 
fectly with  yours;  she  would  understand  you  and  love  you." 

"Yes?" 

"A  woman  who  sympathized  with  you  from  the  first 
moment  she  saw  you." 

"Truly?" 

"Who  does  not  let  a  day  pass  without  asking  me  some 
question  about  you." 

"Oh!  who  is  she?" 

"A  woman  who  is  as  unfortunate  as  yourself,  if  not 
more  so." 

"As  unfortunate?" 

"Yes." 

"No,  there  is  no  woman  in  the  world  as  unfortunate  as 
I  am,"  said  Manuela,  with  a  sigh,  lowering  her  eyes,  to 
which  the  tears  had  started. 

"You  at  least  are  not  calumniated." 

"I  am  not  calumniated!"  exclaimed  Manuela,  raising  her 
head  and  fixing  her  sparkling  eyes  on  Daniel.  "That  is 
the  only  thing  which  I  cannot  forgive  my  father's  enemies ; 
they  have  pulled  my  reputation  to  pieces,  through  a  spirit 
of  political  revenge.  And  what  calumny,  my  God !"  ex- 
claimed the  young  girl,  covering  her  eyes  with  her  hand. 

The  conversation  carried  on  in  the  various  groups 
around  them  was  so  animated  that  the  dialogue  between  the 


CONTINUATION  OF  THE  PRECEDING      267 

two  young  people  was  not  heard  by  Dona  Maria  Josefa 
and  Marino,  but  it  was  followed  by  their  watchful  glances. 

"Time  will  rectify  all  that,  my  friend,"  said  Daniel,  in 
so  gentle  and  sympathetic  a  tone  that  Manuela  could  not 
refrain  from  thanking  him  with  a  sweet  glance.  ''But  time 
is  perhaps  the  worst  enemy  of  the  person  of  whom  we 
were  speaking." 

"How  is  that?    Explain  yourself." 

"Time  is  her  worst  enemy  because  every  moment  that 
passes  aggravates  her  situation." 

"But  what  is  the  matter?  Who  is  she?"  asked  the  young 
girl,  with  the  frankness  and  impetuosity  which  were  natural 
to  her. 

"They  calumniate  her  politically.  They  make  her  appear 
to  be  a  Unitarian  and  they  persecute  her." 

"But  who  is  she?" 

"Amalia." 

"Your  cousin?" 

"Yes." 

"And  they  persecute  her?" 

"Yes." 

"By  papa's  orders?" 

"No." 

"By  those  of  the  police?" 

"No." 

"And  by  whose,  then?" 

"By  the  orders  of  a  man  who  is  in  love  with  her  and 
whom  she  scorns." 

"And " 

"Pardon  me — and  they  employ  the  Federation  and  the 
respected  name  of  the  Restorer  of  the  Laws  as  the  instru- 
ments of  an  ignoble  and  personal  revenge." 

"Ah!  who  is  he,  who  is  the  man  who  persecutes  her?" 


268  AMALIA 

*Torgive  me,  senorita,  but  I  cannot  tell  you  that  yet." 

"But  I  wish  to  know  it  in  order  to  tell  it  to  papa." 

"You  will  know  it  one  day.  But  I  must  tell  you  that 
he  is  a  person  of  great  influence." 

"He  is  all  the  more  criminal  then,  Senor  Bello." 

"I  know  it." 

"Listen  to  me." 

"Speak,  senorita." 

"I  wish  you  to  bring  Amalia  here." 

"Here?" 

"Yes." 

"She  would  not  come." 

"She  would  not  come  to  my  house  ?" 

"She  is  a  little  eccentric;  and  she  would  find  herself 
very  ill  at  ease  in  so  numerous  a  company  as  that  which 
surrounds  you,  senorita." 

"I  will  receive  her  alone — ^but  no,  I  am  not  free  to  be 
alone." 

"Besides,  since  her  house  has  been  searched  she  is  afraid 
of  receiving  some  further  insult." 

"But  it  is  unheard  of !" 

"In  addition,  she  has  had  to  abandon  for  the  time  her 
beautiful  villa  at  Barracas;  and  although  she  lives  in  the 
greatest  retirement  she  is  in  constant  terror." 

"Poor  girl !" 

"You  might  render  her  a  great  service,  however." 

"I?     Name  it,  Bello." 

"You  might  write  her  a  letter  which  she  could  show 
to  anyone  who  should  present  himself  in  her  house  without 
an  order  from  the  Governor." 

"And  is  there  anyone  who  would  dare  do  that  without 
an  order  from  papa?" 

"Someone  has  already  done  it." 


CONXmUATION  OF  THE  PRECEDING      269 

"Very  well,  I  will  write  the  letter  to-morrow." 

"I  will  venture  to  ask  you,  when  you  are  writing  it,  to 
make  it  understood  that  no  one  shall  use  the  name  of 
General  Rosas  or  the  Federation  as  a  shield  for  the  com- 
mission of  injustice,  or  the  gratification  of  private  revenge." 

"Very  well,  very  well ;  I  understand,"  returned  Manuela, 
radiant  at  having  an  opportunity  of  wounding  the  pride 
of  those  who  annoyed  her  unceasingly.  ''Our  conversa- 
tion," she  continued,  "in  which  I  have  taken  so  much 
pleasure,  has  lasted  too  long  already  not  to  have  awakened 
the  jealousy  of  these  people,  to  all  of  whom,  without  dis- 
tinction, I  am  obliged  to  show  the  same  attention,  in  ac- 
cordance with  papa's  desire." 

"Your  wishes  are  for  me  commands.  But  you  will 
promise  me  not  to  forget  the  letter?" 

"Yes ;  to-morrow  you  shall  have  it." 

"Very  well.    Thanks." 


CHAPTER  XXIX 


THE  SOLITARY  HOUSE 


To  the  left  of  the  road  following  the  course  of  the  river, 
going  from  Buenos  Ayres  to  San  Isidro,  and  about  three 
leagues  distant  from  the  city,  there  stands,  crowning  a 
small  eminence,  a  group  of  some  forty  or  fifty  olive  trees, 
the  remains  of  an  ancient  wood,  from  v/hich  the  place  takes 
its  name  of  Los  Olivos.  Fronting  this  grove,  to  the  right 
of  the  road,  stood,  in  1840,  on  the  barranca  overlooking 
the  river,  a  small  and  solitary  house,  long  uninhabited,  and 
in  part  fallen  into  decay.  It  was  in  this  house,  transformed, 
as  if  by  magic,  in  the  space  of  a  few  days,  into  a  com- 
fortable, and  even  elegant  abode,  inside,  while  outside  it 
presented  the  same  ruinous  appearance  as  before,  that 
Amalia  had  taken  refuge  from  the  persecution  of  which 
she  had  been  the  object  at  Barracas ;  and  here,  at  about  nine 
o'clock  on  a  bright  moonlight  night  a  few  weeks  after 
the  domiciliary  visit  of  the  police,  she  and  Eduardo,  who 
had  arrived  about  half  an  hour  before,  were  sitting  in 
the  little  parlor,  in  the  center  of  which  stood  a  table  laid 
for  three  persons,  waiting  for  Daniel's  arrival  to  sit  down 
to  dinner. 

In  accordance  with  Amalia's  orders  the  windows  were 
all  darkened  and  the  doors  of  all  the  rooms  closed,  with 
the  exception  of  those  facing  the  river,  as  on  that  side  no 
one  ever  passed  at  night. 

Eduardo  and  Amalia  were  discussing  with  mingled  hope 

270 


THE  SOLITARY  HOUSE  271 

and  anxiety  their  plans  for  the  future,  when  Pedro,  who 
had  been  standing  at  the  window  of  his  room,  watching 
the  road,  put  his  head  in  at  the  door  and  said: 

"They  are  coming  now." 

"Who  are  coming?"  asked  AmaUa  with  a  start, 

"Sefior  Don  Daniel  and  Fermin." 

"Ah!  very  well;  see  to  their  horses/' 

Animated,  gay  and  careless  as  usual,  Daniel  entered  his 
cousin's  parlor,  a  few  mom.ents  later,  enveloped  in  a  short 
poncho,  with  the  points  of  his  collar  turned  down  over  a 
black  necktie,  leaving  bare  his  v/ell-shaped  throat. 

"We  have  been  waiting  for  you,"  said  the  young  woman, 
with  a  smile. 

"For  me  ?  Ah,  many  thanks  !  You  are  the  most  amiable 
creatures  in  the  world.  And  how  tired  you  must  have 
been  waiting  for  me !  How  heavy  the  time  must  have  hung 
on  your  hands." 

"Oh,  very  heavy !"  answered  Eduardo,  nodding. 

"Naturally!  You  tire  so  soon  of  each  other's  company. 
Pedro !" 

"What  do  you  want,  madcap?" 

"Dinner,  Pedro,"  said  Daniel,  taking  off  his  poncho  and 
his  beaver  gloves,  seating  himself  at  the  table  and  pouring 
out  a  glass  of  wine. 

"Have  you  heard  from  Barracas,  Daniel?"  asked  Anialia 
later,  when,  dinner  over,  the  conversation  took  a  more 
serious  turn. 

"Yes ;  they  have  not  yet  made  an  attack  upon  the  house, 
which  is  something  wonderful  in  these  times  of  the  sacred 
Federal  cause." 

"Have  they  ceased  to  watch  it?" 

"For  three  nights  past  no  one  has  been  there,  which  is 
strange  also.    I  went  to  the  villa  this  morning.    Everything 


27^  AMALIA 

is  just  as  we  left  it  two  weeks  ago.  I  have  had  a  new 
lock  put  on  the  door  of  the  grating,  and  your  faithful 
negroes  who  are  taking  care  of  the  villa  sleep  a  great  deal 
in  the  daytime  in  order  to  keep  watch  at  night;  if  anyone 
goes  there  they  pretend  to  be  asleep;  but  they  both  hear 
and  see,  which  is  what  I  wish." 

"Oh,  my  old  servants!  I  will  recompense  them  some 
day!" 

**  Yesterday  Dona  Maria  Jose  fa  sent  for  them ;  they  were 
with  her  this  morning  early,  but  the  poor  creatures  could 
tell  her  only  what  they  knew  themselves — that  is  to  say, 
that  you  were  not  at  home,  and  that  they  did  not  know 
where  you  were." 

"Oh,  what  a  woman,  what  a  woman,  Eduardo!" 

"No;  she  is  not  the  one  who  is  to  be  held  responsible." 

"There  is  one  thing,  however,  in  our  favor." 

"What  is  that?"  they  both  asked  eagerly. 

"The  situation  of  affairs.  The  Liberating  Army  is  still 
encamped  at  Lujan,  but  to-morrow,  the  ist  of  September, 
it  will  resume  its  march;  Rosas  can  give  his  attention  only 
to  great  dangers,  and  no  one  will  venture  to  annoy  him 
now  with  personal  gossip;  the  persecution  of  which  you 
are  the  object  and  which  still  continues  in  the  case  of 
Eduardo,  is  a  private  affair  entirely,  and  comes  from  a 
low  quarter.  Rosas  has  given  no  orders  for  it;  and  the 
Mashorca  and  the  leaders  of  the  Federation  do  not  wish 
to  assume  a  more  decided  attitude  until  they  know  the 
result  of  the  invasion;  so  that  in  the  past  fortnight  no 
event  of  any  importance  has  occurred.  But  when  these 
terrible  times  are  past,"  he  continued,  "and  you  and 
Eduardo,  my  Florencia  and  I  are  living  all  together  I  will 
tell  you  horrible  things,  my  noble  cousin,  which  have  taken 
place  very  near  you  and  of  which  you  are  utterly  ignorant. 


THE  SOLITARY  HOUSE  273 

It  is  true  that  we  shall  then  be  so  happy  that  we  may  not 
care  to  speak  of  past  misfortunes.  Let  us  drink  to  that 
moment." 

'Tes,  let  us  drink  to  our  future  happiness,"  responded 
Eduardo  and  Amalia,  raising  their  glasses  to  drink  with 
Daniel. 

"You  have  scarcely  tasted  your  wine,  Amalia,  but 
Eduardo  and  I  have  drunk  for  you;  and  we  have  done 
well,  for  wine  strengthens  and  we  have  a  ride  of  three 
leagues  along  the  shore  before  us." 

"My  God!  That  ride  terrifies  me!"  exclaimed  Amalia; 
"at  this  hour " 

"Thus  far  no  harm  has  come  to  us;  nor  will  there  in 
the  future,"  said  Eduardo. 

"But  what  if  you  should  prove  to  be  mistaken  in  your 
confidence?" 

"No,  my  friend,  no.  The  soldiers  of  Rosas  never  go 
alone,  it  is  true,  but  their  parties  never  exceed  six  or  eight 
in  number." 

"But  you  are  only  three." 

"Precisely,  Amalia;  and  it  is  because  we  are  three  that 
the  Mashorqueros  would  need  to  be  at  least  twelve — four 
to  one;  then  the  matter  might  be  doubtful,"  answered 
Eduardo,  with  so  much  confidence  in  his  manner  that  he 
almost  succeeded  in  inspiring  Amalia  with  confidence  also ; 
but  only  for  the  moment — a  woman  in  love  never  doubts 
the  courage  of  her  iover,  but  neither  does  she  ever  wish 
to  see  it  put  to  the  test;  and  Amalia  said  quickly: 

"You  will  avoid  any  encounter,  however,  will  you  not?" 

"Yes,  unless  Eduardo's  old  passion  for  fencing  should 
return.  Rather  than  bear  the  weight  of  the  sword  he  wears 
every  night  I  would  take  my  chance  of  being  wounded  by 
one  like  it." 


274  AMALIA 

"I  do  not  use  mysterious  weapons,  senor,"  answered 
Eduardo  smiling. 

'That  may  be  so;  but  they  are  the  most  effectual  ones; 
and  above  all,  the  most  convenient  to  carry." 

''Ah!  I  know  what  you  are  alluding  to.  What  is  that 
weapon  which  you  use,  Daniel,  and  with  which  you  have 
at  times  done  so  much  harm?" 

"And  so  much  good,  you  might  add,  cousin." 

'True,  true,  forgive  me.  But  answer  my  question;  it  is 
one  that  I  have  often  before  desired  to  ask  you." 

"Wait;  let  me  finish  this  jam  first." 

"I  shall  not  let  you  leave  the  house  to-night  until  you 
tell  me  what  I  wish  to  know." 

"I  am  almost  inclined  to  refuse  to  tell  it  to  you,  then." 

"Tease!" 

"Well,  then,  here  is  the  mysterious  weapon,  as  Eduardo 
calls  it." 

And  Daniel  took  from  his  coat  pocket  and  laid  on  the 
table  a  slender  osier  wand  a  foot  in  length,  with  an  iron 
ball,  weighing  at  least  six  ounces  and  covered  by  a  fine 
close  network  of  Russia  leather  at  either  extremity;  a 
weapon  w^hich,  held  by  one  of  the  balls,  could  be  wielded 
without  breaking  the  osier,  the  other  ball  acquiring  triple 
weight  and  force  from  the  slightest  movement  of  the  hand. 

Amalia  took  the  weapon  in  her  hand,  as  if  it  were  a 
toy,  but  as  soon  as  she  comprehended  its  deadly  power, 
she  laid  it  down  again. 

"Have  you  examined  it  already,  Amalia?" 

"Yes,  yes ;  put  it  away.  A  blow  given  with  one  of  those 
balls  must  be  terrible." 

"It  would  be  fatal  if  given  with  full  force  either  on 
the  head  or  the  chest.  Now  I  will  tell  you  its  name.  In 
English  it  is  called  Life-preserver;  in  French  casse-tete; 


THE  SOLITARY  HOUSE  275 

in  Spanish  it  has  no  special  name,  but  we  call  it  by  the 
French  name,  which  is  the  most  expressive,  for  it  means, 
as  you  know,  head-breaker.  In  England  this  weapon  is 
very  common;  it  is  used  also  in  one  of  the  provinces  of 
France;  and  Napoleon  caused  it  to  be  carried  by  several 
cavalry  regiments.  It  has  for  me  two  recommendations 
— one  that  it  saved  Eduardo's  life,  the  other  that  it  is  ready 
to  save  his  life  again,  if  the  occasion  should  arise.'* 

"Oh,  it  will  not  arise!  Is  it  not  true  that  you  will  not 
expose  yourself  again  to  danger,  Eduardo?" 

"No,  I  will  not  expose  myself  to  danger;  I  should  be 
too  much  afraid  of  being  unable  to  return  here.'* 

"And  you  are  right,  for  it  is  the  only  place  that  you  are 
not  turned  out  of,"  said  Daniel. 

"He?" 

"Why,  did  you  not  know  that,  my  dear  cousin?  Our 
respected  schoolmaster  did  not  put  him  out  of  his  house, 
but  he  talked  him  out  of  it.  My  Florencia  gave  him 
shelter  for  a  night,  but  I  turned  him  out  of  that  house. 
A  friend  of  ours  wished  to  keep  him  for  a  couple  of  days, 
but  his  worthy  father  would  consent  to  shelter  him  for 
only  a  day  and  a  half;  and  finally,  I  have  been  willing 
to  keep  him  for  only  tw^o  days,  or,  counting  to-night,  three." 

"But  I  spent  one  night  in  my  own  house,"  said  Eduardo, 
with  a  certain  emphasis. 

"Yes,  senor,  and  that  was  enough." 

Amalia  tried  to  smile,  but  her  eyes  filled  with  tears. 
Daniel  perceived  them  and  taking  out  his  watch,  said: 

"Half-past  eleven;  we  must  return  to  the  city  now." 

They  all  stood  up. 

"Your  poncho  and  your  sword,  Eduardo  ?" 

"I  gave  them  to  Luisa  when  I  came;  I  believe  that  she 
took  them  to  one  of  the  inner  rooms." 


276  AMALIA 

Amalia  passed  through  the  adjoining  apartment  into  a 
room  beyond  it;  both  of  which  were  dark,  except  for  the 
moonUght  which  entered  through  the  windows  that  looked 
out  on  the  road  lying  between  The  Olives  and  the  solitary 
house. 

Eduardo  and  Daniel  were  talking  together  when  they 
heard  a  cry  from  Amalia  and  then  the  sound  of  her  foot- 
steps hurrying  toward  the  parlor. 

The  two  young  men  were  about  to  go  into  the  adjoining 
room  when  Amalia  stopped  them  at  the  threshold. 

"What  is  the  matter?"  asked  the  two  friends  simul- 
taneously. 

"Nothing — don't  go  away  yet — don't  go  away  to-night," 
answered  Amalia,  with  an  excessively  pale  and  troubled 
countenance. 

"For  God's  sake,  Amalia!  what  is  the  matter?"  asked 
Daniel,  with  the  impetuousity  natural  to  him,  while  Eduardo 
endeavored  to  force  his  way  into  the  room,  the  door  leading 
into  which  Amalia  had  closed,  and  before  which  she  now 
stood,  saying: 

"I  will  tell  you ;  I  will  tell  you,  but  do  not  go  in." 

"Is  there  someone  in  there,  then?" 

"No,  there  is  no  one  there." 

"But  cousin,  why  did  you  give  that  cry?  Why  are  you 
so  pale?" 

"I  saw  a  man  looking  in  at  the  window  of  Luisa's  room, 
which  looks  out  on  the  road;  I  thought  at  first  that  it 
might  be  Pedro  or  Fermin;  I  went  to  the  window  to  see 
who  it  was ;  the  man  saw  me,  turned  round  quickly,  covered 
his  face  with  his  poncho,  and  hurried  away,  almost  running; 
but,  as  he  turned  from  the  window  the  moonlight  fell  upon 
his  face  and  I  recognized  him." 

"And  who  was  he,  Amalia?"  asked  both  young  men 
simultaneously. 


THE  SOLITARY  HOUSE  277 

"Mariiio/' 

"Marino !"  exclaimed  Daniel,  while  Eduardo  clenched  his 
hands. 

"Yes,  it  was  he;  I  am  sure  of  it.  I  could  not  control 
myself  and  I  gave  a  cry." 

"All  our  labor  is  lost !"  exclaimed  Eduardo,  walking  with 
agitated  steps  up  and  down  the  room. 

"There  is  not  a  doubt  of  it,  he  followed  me  here,"  said 
Daniel,  thoughtfully. 

The  young  man  then  went  to  the  door  facing  the  river 
and  called  to  Pedro,  who  had  just  finished  removing  the 
dinner  dishes. 

The  veteran  immediately  appeared. 

"Pedro,  where  was  Fermin  while  we  were  at  dinner?" 

"He  has  not  stirred  from  the  kitchen  since  we  took  the 
horses  to  the  stable." 

"And  neither  you  nor  he  heard  anything  on  the  road 
or  near  the  house?" 

"Nothing,  sefior." 

"It  seems,  hov/ever,  that  a  man  was  standing  for  a  long 
time  at  Luisa's  window,  looking  into  her  room." 

The  soldier  raised  his  hand  to  his  gray  mustache  and, 
pretending  to  twist  it,  gave  it  a  sharp  pull. 

"You  did  not  hear  him,  Pedro.  That  might  very  well 
have  happened,  but  it  is  necessary  to  be  more  vigilant  for 
the  future.  Call  Fermin,  and,  meanwhile,  saddle  the  horse 
he  rides." 

Pedro  left  the  room  without  answering  a  word  and  a 
moment  afterward  Daniel's  servant  appeared. 

"Fermin,  I  wish  to  know  if  there  is  a  party  of  horsemen 
among  the  olives;  and  if  they  are  not  there  I  desire  to 
know  what  direction  they  have  taken  and  how  many  there 
are.  If  they  have  left  the  grove  it  cannot  have  been  more 
than  a  few  minutes  ago." 


278  AMALIA 

Fermin  retired,  and  Daniel,  Amalia  and  Eduardo  went 
immediately  into  Luisa's  room  where  Daniel  opened  the 
window,  from  which  they  could  see  the  road  and  the  group 
of  trees,  three  hundred  yards  from  the  house,  that  looked 
like  so  many  ghosts  revisiting  this  solitary  scene. 

They  had  been  watching  the  road  skirting  the  grove  for 
a  few  moments  when  Amaha  said: 

"But  why  does  Fermin  delay  so  long  in  leaving  the 
house?" 

"Oh,  he  is  already  several  hundred  yards  away  from  it, 
Amaha." 

"But  he  has  not  passed  by,  and  this  is  the  only  way  to 
the  road." 

"No,  child,  no;  Fermin  is  a  good  gaucho,  and  he  knows 
that  the  runaway  horse  is  not  to  be  overtaken  from  behind. 
I  am  sure  that  he  has  descended  the  barranca  and  ascended 
it  again,  three  or  four  hundred  yards  farther  on,  to  return 
to  The  Olives  by  the  upper  road.  There  he  is,  do  you 
see  him?" 

And  in  fact,  a  couple  of  hundred  yards  from  the  solitary 
house,  keeping  well  to  the  right  and  leaving  The  Olives  a 
little  to  the  left,  a  man  mounted  on  a  dark  horse  was  seen 
galloping  up  the  road,  and  a  moment  afterward  the  man's 
voice  was  heard  singing  one  of  the  melancholy  and  expres- 
sive songs  of  our  gauchos,  all  differing  in  words  but  re- 
sembling one  another  in  air. 

Shortly  afterward  they  saw  him  halt  and  return  at  a 
trot  toward  The  Olives,  still  singing.  Then  he  disappeared 
among  the  trees  and  a  few  moments  later  they  saw  him 
issue  from  the  grove  like  an  exhalation  and  retrace  in  a 
minute  the  road  he  had  traversed. 

"They  are  pursuing  Fermin,  Daniel." 

"No,  Amalia." 


THE  SOLITARY  HOUSE  279 

"But  look;  he  is  no  longer  to  be  seen." 

"I  understand  it  all." 

"But  what  do  you  understand?"  asked  Eduardo,  who 
lacked  that  genius  for  observation  which  Daniel  possessed 
in  so  remarkable  a  degree,  and  by  means  of  which  he 
had  acquired  the  learning  of  the  gaucho  as  well  as  the 
learning  of  civilization. 

"What  I  understand  is  that  Fermin  found  no  one  among 
the  olives;  that  he  descended  the  barranca  in  search  of  a 
clue;  that  he  found  tracks  leading  him  to  believe  that 
horses  had  passed  recently  along  the  road  that  he  has  taken 
and  that  he  is  following  it  to  ascertain  if  his  supposition 
is  correct." 

They  then  returned  to  the  parlor,  and  before  they  had 
been  ten  minutes  standing  at  the  door  facing  the  river,  they 
descried  Fermin  galloping  rapidly  toward  them  along  the 
beach.  He  ascended  the  barranca  at  a  slow  trot,  rode  up 
to  the  door,  and  dismounted. 

"There  they  go,  sefior,"  he  said  with  the  indolence  which 
is  characteristic  of  the  gaucho. 

"How  many?" 

"Three." 

"By  what  road?" 

"The  upper  road." 

"Did  you  observe  the  horses?" 

"Yes,  seiior." 

"Did  you  recognize  any  of  them?" 

"Yes,  senor." 

"Which?" 

"The  one  in  the  lead  is  the  horse  with  the  two  white 
forefeet  of  Commandant  Marino." 

Amalia  looked  with  surprise  at  Eduardo  and  Daniel. 

"Good;  take  the  horses  down  to  the  shore." 


280  AMALIA 

Fermin  went  away,  leading  his  own  horse  by  the  bridle. 

"Are  you  going,  then?"  asked  Amalia. 

"Without  losing  an  instant,"  answered  her  cousin. 

"But  how  can  we  leave  her  alone,  Daniel  ?" 

"Fermin  will  remain,  and  he  and  Pedro  will  answer  to 
us  for  her  safety.  I  am  to  accompany  the  officer  of  the 
day  on  his  rounds  to-night  and  you  will  sleep  in  my  house.'* 

"My  God !  Fresh  troubles !"  exclaimed  Amalia,  covering 
her  face  with  her  hands. 

"Yes,  fresh  troubles,  my  Amalia.  This  house  is  no 
longer  safe,  and  we  must  seek  another." 

"Come  quickly,  Daniel,"  said  Eduardo  with  such  marked 
impatience  and  so  stern  an  expression  in  his  brilliant  black 
eyes,  that  Amalia  fancied  she  divined  his  intention  and 
catching  him  by  the  hand  she  said: 

"For  my  sake,  Eduardo,  for  my  sake,"  with  so  much 
sweetness,  so  much  tenderness  in  her  glance  and  in  her 
voice,  that  Eduardo,  for  the  first  time,  was  obliged  to  turn 
away  his  eyes  from  hers,  lest  his  resolution  should  give 
way  before  their  soft  enchantment. 

"Leave  everything  to  me,  my  Amalia,"  said  Daniel,  kiss- 
ing her  on  the  forehead,  as  his  custom  was  when  parting 
from  her. 

As  Eduardo  pressed  Amalia's  hand  Pedro  gave  him  his 
poncho  and  his  sword,  swearing  inwardly  because  he  had 
not  been  able  to  salute  with  his  carbine  the  man  who  had 
come  to  spy  into  the  windows  of  the  house  of  his  Colonel's 
daughter. 

At  the  foot  of  the  barranca  Daniel  and  Eduardo  vaulted 
upon  their  horses,  Fermin  having  received  orders  to  remain 
with  Amalia  until  six  on  the  following  morning. 


CHAPTER  XXX 

THE   OFFICER   OF   THE   DAY 

"It  is  useless,  Ediiardo;  we  shall  only  kill  the  horses 
without  succeeding  in  what  you  desire,"  said  Daniel,  while 
the  horses  flew  along  the  road. 

"And  do  you  know  what  it  is  that  I  desire?" 

"Yes." 

"What?" 

"To  overtake  Marino." 

"Yes." 

"But  you  will  not  do  it." 

"No?" 

"You  will  not  succeed  in  doing  It ;  and  that  Is  the  reason 
why  I  have  humored  your  caprice  that  we  should  fly  along 
this  road  like  two  demons,  as  we  are  doing,  at  the  risk 
of  stumbling  and  breaking  our  necks." 

"We  shall  see  whether  I  will  succeed  in  overtaking  him 
or  not." 

"He  has  twenty  minutes  the  start  of  us." 

"Not  so  many." 

"More." 

"We  have  made  up  two  of  them,  at  least,  already." 

"And  how  if  we  should  overtake  him^" 

"All  roads  lead  to  Rome." 

"What  do  you  mean  by  that?" 

"That  I  will  provoke  a  quarrel  with  him  and  run  him 
through  the  body." 

"A  magnificent  idea." 

281 


282  AMALIA 

*'If  it  is  not  magnificent  it  is  at  least  conclusive." 

*'Do  you  forget  that  there  are  four  to  fight  against?" 

"Even  if  there  were  five.  But  there  are  only  three — 
he  and  his  two  orderlies." 

"There  are  four—Marino,  his  two  orderlies  and  I." 

"You?" 

"I." 

"You  against  me?" 

"I  against  you." 

"Very  good." 

Such  was  the  dialogue  that  took  place  between  the  two 
young  men  as  they  made  their  gallant  steeds  fly  along 
the  road  like  the  wind;  and  they  had  already  traversed  a 
league  and  a  half  of  the  three  leagues  they  had  to  cover 
when  Daniel,  who  w^as  beginning  to  fear  that  Eduardo 
would  carry  out  his  mad  idea,  a  thing  which  must  at  all 
costs  be  prevented,  availing  himself  of  the  appearance  of 
two  men  on  horseback,  whom  he  perceived  riding  along 
the  road,  to  the  right,  in  the  same  direction  as  themselves, 
said: 

"Look  there,  Eduardo,  there  go  three  men — to  the  right 
— about  two  hundred  yards  away — do  you  see  them?" 

"But  there  are  not  three,  there  are  only  two." 

"No,  I  saw  three — it  is  that  they  are  in  line  with  us." 

Eduardo  waited  to  hear  no  more,  but,  crossing  the  road, 
galloped  after  the  horsemen,  who  were  now  about  five 
hundred  paces  away,  thus  losing  some  minutes,  w^hich  was 
all  that  Daniel,  who  kept  at  his  side  of  the  road,  desired. 

The  strangers,  seeing  two  men  riding  after  them  at  full 
speed,  reined  in  their  horses  and  waited  for  what  was  to 
follow. 

The  young  men  halted  at  a  few  paces'  distance  from  them 
and  Eduardo  bit  his  lip  vexed  to  see  that  it  was  a  poor 


THE  OFFICER  OF  THE  DAY  283 

old  man  and  a  boy  who  had  taken  them  out  of  their  course 
and  made  them  lose  five  or  six  minutes;  more  especially 
when  he  comprehended  that  it  had  been  a  ruse  of  Daniel's. 

To  perceive  his  mistake,  turn  his  horse's  head,  and  gallop 
on  again,  was  the  work  of  a  second. 

Daniel,  certain  that  Eduardo  could  not  now  overtake 
Marino,  allowed  him  to  urge  on  his  horse  without  further 
remonstrance,  persuaded  that  the  only  risk  they  now  ran 
was  that  of  a  fall,  as  he  had  said.  But  the  poor  beasts, 
powerful  and  swift  as  they  were,  could  not  keep  up.  the 
rate  of  speed  at  which  they  had  been  going  for  three 
leagues  and  they  were  beginning  to  falter  and  refuse  to 
obey  the  spur  when  suddenly,  to  Daniel's  great  relief,  the 
''Who  goes  there !"  of  a  sentinel  fell  upon  their  ears.  They 
were  at  the  foot  of  the  Barrancas  del  Retiro,  where  General 
Rolon  was  quartered,  with  a  picket  of  cavalry  and  half  a 
company  of  the  naval  battalion  commanded  by  IMaza,  which 
was  guarding  the  barracks,  as  the  troops  had  marched  to 
Santos  Lugares  whither  the  Dictator  had  preceded  them  by 
a  few  hours,  on  the  i6th  of  August. 

"Thank  Heaven!"  said  Daniel  to  himself.  "Our  coun- 
try!" he  said  aloud,  in  answer  to  the  sentinel's  challenge, 
stopping  his  own  horse  and  the  horse  of  Eduardo,  which 
he  reined  in  with  such  force  as  almost  to  unseat  its  rider. 

"Who  goes  there?"  demanded  the  sentinel. 

"Good  Federals,"  responded  Daniel. 

"Pass  on." 

Eduardo  was  about  to  put  his  horse  to  a  gallop  again 
when  a  deep,  resonant  voice  cried  out: 

"Halt!" 

The  young  men  stopped. 

A  party  of  ten  horsemen  were  descending  the  barranca 
from  Maza's  quarters. 


284  AlVIALIA 

Three  of  the  horsemen  rode  forward  to  examine  the  men 
who  were  riding  up  the  Bajo  road;  and  they  were  observ- 
ing them  attentively  w^hen  the  rest  of  the  party  joined  them. 

''You  owe  me  a  horse,  General,"  said  Daniel,  with  that 
confident  manner  which  he  knew  how  to  assume  in  the 
most  difficult  circumstances  and  with  which  he  disarmed 
the  most  clear-sighted  and  suspicious,  as  he  recognized 
in  the  leader  of  the  party.  General  Mancilla,  who,  as  officer 
of  the  day,  was  now  making  the  nightly  rounds. 

"You  here,  Bello?"  ansv/ered  the  general. 

"Yes,  seiior,  I  am  here,  after  riding  for  more  than  a 
league  along  the  coast  in  the  hope  of  meeting  you,  as  I 
could  not  find  you  at  any  of  the  barracks  in  the  city.  There 
is  not  a  word  to  be  said — you  owe  me  a  horse,  for  mine 
is  done  up  from  all  he  has  galloped  in  search  of  you." 

"But  you  agreed  to  be  at  my  house  at  eleven,  and  I  did 
not  leave  it  until  a  quarter  past." 

"Then  it  is  I  who  am  to  blame?" 

"Of  course." 

"Well,  I  confess  my  fault,  then,  and  I  will  not  claim 
the  horse." 

"Agreed." 

"And  is  there  nothing  new.  General?" 

"Nothing." 

"But  I  told  you  that  I  desired  to  see  our  soldiers  in  their 
barracks." 

"I  began  with  those  of  the  Retiro ;  all  the  others  are  yet 
to  be  inspected." 

"And  you  are  going  now " 

"To  the  fortress." 

"I  wager  they  are  all  asleep  there." 

"Well,  what  can  you  expect !  Alcaldes  and  justices  of 
the  peace!    What  sort  of  soldiers  are  they?" 


THE  OFFICER  OF  THE  DAY  285 

"Well,  General,  what  road  are  you  going  to  take?" 

"The  Bajo,  as  I  am  going  first  to  the  battery." 

"Weil,  then,  I  will  meet  you  at  the  fortress." 

"But  are  we  not  going  together?" 

"No,  General ;  I  am  going  to  accompany  my  friend  here 
to  the  city  first;  he  had  intended  to  spend  the  night  with 
us,  but  he  has  been  taken  suddenly  ill." 

"That's  the  way  with  you!  Deuce  a  thing  you  young 
men  of  the  present  day  are  good  for." 

"That  is  just  what  I  was  saying  to  you  this  morning." 

"You  can't  pass  a  bad  night  without  suffering  for  it." 

"So  you  see." 

"Well,  go  quickly,  and  me&t  me  at  the  fortress  and  we 
will  take  supper  there." 

"Good-bye  for  a  while,  General." 

"Make  no  delay." 

Eduardo,  bowing  slightly  to  General  Mancilla,  rode  with 
his  friend  up  the  Barranca  del  Retiro. 

Ten  minutes  later  Daniel  opened  the  door  of  his  house 
and  entered  it  with  Eduardo;  a  few  moments  afterward 
he  left  it  again,  alone,  closed  the  door  behind  him,  and 
mounted  his  horse — a  fresh  and  spirited  horse,  the  best 
of  the  many  in  his  father's  stables. 

Passing  the  grand  arch  of  the  Recova,  he  saw  the  officer 
of  the  day  and  his  party  riding  toward  him  across  the 
Plaza-  of  the  25th  of  May,  and  the  general  and  Daniel 
exchanged  salutations  again,  beside  the  moat  of  the  fortress 
which,  after  the  customary  military  formalities,  they  en- 
tered together. 

The  night  continued  beautiful  and  calm  and  in  the  large 
courtyard  of  the  fortress  and  the  corridors  of  what  had 
formerly  been  the  Ministerial  Departments  were  crowded 
together,  smoking  and  talking,  all  the  alcaldes  and  justices 


286  AMALIA 

of  the  peace  of  the  city,  with  their  heutenants  and  orderUes, 
half  of  the  corps  of  Night-Watchmen  and  a  large  part  of 
the  staff;  amounting  in  all  to  between  four  hundred  and 
fifty  and  five  hundred  men. 

This  heterogeneous  garrison  was  commanded  on  this 
night  by  Marino,  in  accordance  with  the  orders  of  General 
Pinedo,  inspector  of  arms. 

It  would  be  impossible  to  describe  the  amazement  of  the 
Commandant  of  the  Night-Watchmen  on  seeing  Daniel  in 
the  company  of  General  Mancilla,  believing  him,  as  he  did, 
to  be  in  the  solitary  house,  three  leagues  distant  from  the 
city. 

Daniel  had  not  known  that  Marino  was  on  this  night 
in  charge  of  the  fortress  but  he  showed  no  surprise  in 
his  countenance,  and  comprehending  the  surprise  that 
Marino  must  feel  at  seeing  him  he  said  to  the  officer  of 
the  day: 

"This  is  what  may  be  called  serving  the  state,  general. 
Sefior  Marino  lays  down  the  pen  to  take  up  the  sword." 

"That  is  only  fulfilling  my  duty,  Sefior  Bello,"  answered 
Marino,  who  had  not  yet  recovered  from  his  surprise. 

"And  this  is  what  may  be  called  vigilance.  Everybody 
is  awake  here,"  said  the  officer  of  the  day. 

"A  thing  we  have  seen  nowhere  else,"  added  Daniel, 
completing  the  perplexity  of  Marino,  for  if  Daniel  had  been 
accompanying  the  officer  of  the  day  in  his  rounds  it  could 
not  have  been  he  whom  the  editor  had  followed  to  the 
solitary  house,  three  hours  before ;  and  perhaps  the  woman 
who  had  uttered  a  cry  in  a  dark  room  of  that  house 
was  not  Amalia,  either.  Thus  Marino  lost  himself  in  con- 
jectures, and  when  the  general  had  gone  upstairs  to  one  of 
the  rooms  in  which  a  table  was  spread  with  cold  meats 
and  wine,  to  talk  with  some  of  the  justices  of  the  peace, 


THE  OFFICER  OF  THE  DAY  287 

Marino  could  not  refrain  from  asking  Daniel,  with  that 
indiscretion  into  which  one  is  apt  to  be  betrayed  by  a  sud- 
den surprise: 

'Then  you  were  not  riding  alone  this  evening?" 

*'I  was  for  a  while/' 

"Ah !" 

*'I  was  in  the  house  of  the  Deputy  Governor  until  seven, 
and  before  going  to  meet  General  Mancilla  I  took  a  turn 
through  that  part  of  the  Retiro." 

^'Through  the  Retiro,  toward  San  Isidro?'* 

"Yes,  tovv^ard  San  Isidro.  But  I  suddenly  remembered 
that  I  had  some  business  to  attend  to  near  El  Socorro,  and 
I  gave  up  my  ride,  envying  a  man  who  was  riding  in  front 
of  me  and  who  continued  on  his  way  without  having  any 
business  to  attend  to." 

"Riding  in  front  of  you?" 

"Yes,  toward  San  Isidro,  on  the  upper  road,"  returned 
Daniel,  with  such  naturalness  that  Marino  was  completely 
bewildered  and  began  to  think  that  after  all  he  had  been 
deceiving  himself. 

"What  would  you  have?"  continued  Daniel;  "we  have 
not  a  moment  that  we  can  call  our  own." 

"That  is  true." 

"Oh,  but  if  I  had  your  genius,  Senor  Mariiio,  if  I  could 
only  write  like  you,  my  vigils  might  then  be  of  some  service 
to  our  cause;  but  I  go  about  all  day  and  all  night,  and 
devil  a  thing  I  do  to  serve  the  Restorer." 

"Everyone  does  what  he  can,  Senor  Bello,"  answered 
Marino,  on  whose  soul,  more  distorted  than  his  eyes,  not 
even  flattery  could  make  any  impression. 

"When  shall  we  be  at  peace  and  see  those  brilliant 
Federal  principles  established  which  you  are  disseminating 
in  the  Gacetar 


288  AMALIA 

"When  there  is  not  a  single  Unitarian  left,  either  open 
or  concealed,"  responded  the  Federal  writer. 

"That  is  exactly  what  I  was  saying  this  evening  to  the 
Deputy  Governor." 

At  this  moment  an  adjutant  of  the  officer  of  the  day 
came  for  Bello  and  Marino  and  they  went  upstairs  together. 

Standing  around  the  table  of  the  room  in  which  Mancilla 
was  awaiting  them  were  thirteen  or  fourteen  men  drinking 
with  the  officer  of  the  day.  But  strange  to  say,  though 
they  were  now  emptying  their  glasses  for  the  third  or 
fourth  time,  no  enthusiastic  Federal  toast  had  yet  re- 
sounded under  the  vaulted  roof  of  this  Palace,  which  in 
other  days  had  rung  with  toasts  to  liberty  and  country! 
Marino  arrived  in  time  to  drink  with  them,  but  he  too 
drank  in  silence. 

"Come,  Bello,  what  will  you  have?"  said  General 
Mancilla. 

"Nothing,  senor,  nothing  to  eat;  but  I  will  drink  a  glass 
to  the  speedy  triumph  of  our  arms." 

"And  the  eternal  glory  of  the  Restorer  of  the  Laws," 
added  Mancilla;  and  all  present  emptied  their  glasses,  but 
in  silence. 

"Commandant  Marino !" 

"At  your  service,  senor,"  answered  Marifio,  approaching 
General  Mancilla,  who  said  to  him  aside: 

"Let  all  these  people  go  to  bed;  the  affair  may  be  long, 
and  it  is  not  well  for  them  to  fatigue  themselves  so  much." 

"Shall  I  order  the  drawbridge  to  be  raised?" 

"There  is  no  occasion." 

"Do  you  think.  General,  there  will  be  any  trouble 
to-night  ?" 

"None." 

"Are  you  going  now?" 


THE  OFFICER  OF_THE  DAY  289 

"Yes;  I  am  going  to  visit  some  of  the  other  barracks, 
and  after  that  I  am  going  to  bed." 

"You  have  a  good  companion." 

"Who?" 

"Bello." 

"Ah,  that  boy  is  a  jewel!" 

"Of  v^hat  metal,  General  ?" 

"I  don't  know  whether  it  is  of  gold  or  of  gilded  brass, 
but  it  shines,"  said  Mancilla,  smiling  and  giving  his  hand  to 
Marino. 

Then  they  descended  the  great  staircase  together,  and 
while  Mancilla  went  to  mount  horse  again  with  his  party 
Daniel  went  over  to  Marino  and  said  to  him : 

"I  envy  you,  Commandant — I  should  like  to  have  some 
position,  too,  in  which  I  could  distinguish  myself." 

"And  would  you  suffer  the  anxieties  that  I  suffer  for  the 
Federation?" 

"Everything;  even  to  the  calumnies." 

"Calumnies  ?" 

"Yes.  Only  just  now  I  heard  some  persons  here  criticiz- 
ing you." 

"Me?" 

"They  were  saying  that  you  did  not  come  to  the  fortress 
until  eleven  when  you  ought  to  have  come  at  seven." 

Marino  looked  away,  turning  as  red  as  a  tomato. 

"And  who  said  that,  Senor  Bello?"  he  asked,  in  a  voice 
trembling  with  rage. 

"That  is  not  to  be  told,  Senor  Marino;  the  miracle  is 
related  without  mentioning  the  saint ;  but  they  were  talking 
about  it,  and  it  would  be  very  disagreeable  if  this  should 
reach  the  Restorer's  ears." 

Marino  turned  pale. 

"Gossip,"  he  said.  .     ' 


290  AMALIA 

"Gossip,  of  course." 

"Don't  repeat  it  to  anyone,  however,  Sefior  Bello." 

"I  give  you  my  word  of  honor,  Seilor  Marino.  I  am 
one  of  the  most  ardent  admirers  of  your  genius,  and  I 
have  special  reasons  for  being  grateful  to  you  for  the 
service  you  wished  to  render  my  cousin." 

"And  is  your  cousin  well?" 

"Very  well,  thanks." 

"Have  you  seen  her  lately?" 

"I  was  with  her  this  afternoon." 

"I  hear  that  she  has  left  Barracas." 

"No.  She  has  come  to  the  city  for  a  few  days,  but 
she  will  return  soon  to  Barracas." 

"Ah,  she  is  going  back  to  Barracas?" 

"She  may  do  so  at  any  time." 

"Come,  Bello,"  cried  General  Mancilla,  who  had  already 
mounted  his  horse. 

"I  will  be  with  you  in  a  moment.  General.  Good-night, 
Sefior  Marino." 

"I  recommend  you  to  forget  that  gossip,  Senor  Bello." 

"I  have  already  forgotten  it;  good-night." 

And  Daniel  vaulted  on  his  horse  and  rode  out  of  the 
fortress  with  the  officer  of  the  day,  leaving  Marino  full 
of  perplexity  and  disquietude  and  unable  to  classify  rightly 
this  young  man  who  everywhere  eluded  him  and  who  was 
forever  interfering  in  his  private  affairs;  whom  he  hated 
by  instinct,  but  in  regard  to  whom  he  could  not  discover 
a  single  piece  of  evidence,  a  single  indiscretion,  by  means 
of  which  to  ruin  him. 


CHAPTER  XXXI 

CONTINUATION   OF  THE   PRECEDING   CHAPTER 

The  party  of  the  officer  of  the  day  turned  into  the  Calle 
de  la  Reconquista,  which  led  to  the  quarters  of  Colonel 
Ravelo. 

Although  it  was  only  twelve  o'clock,  the  streets  were 
already  deserted;  not  a  soul  was  to  be  seen  but  the  night- 
v/atchmen  standing  at  their  posts,  ready  to  march  to  the 
fortress  to  join  their  chief  at  the  signal  of  alarm.  Of  gay 
and  noisy  Buenos  Ayres  whose  young  men  in  former  times 
waited  impatiently  for  the  night  to  give  expansion  to  their 
spirits,  avid  of  adventures  and  pleasures,  there  now  re- 
mained not  a  single  vestige.  Every  house  was  closed  at 
nightfall,  and  the  simple  act  of  walking  through  the  streets 
of  Buenos  Ayres,  in  this  reign  of  terror,  after  eight  o'clock 
at  night,  was  of  itself  sufficient  to  prove  that  the  person 
doing  so  had  in  his  Federalism  the  assurance  of  his  security. 
A  terrible  school  in  which  for  two  years  past  the  young 
men  who  remained  in  Buenos  Ayres  had  been  learning 
effeminate  habits,  taught  by  the  absence  of  personal 
security,  which  made  those  who  feared  at  every  step,  the 
dagger  or  the  rope  of  the  Mashorca,  seek  within  the  walls 
of  their  houses  the  only  guarantee  possible. 

But  did  sleep,  at  least,  come  to  the  relief  of  the  anxious 
and  heavy  hearts  of  the  inhabitants  of  this  unhappy  city? 

291 


Q92  AMALIA 

Their  desires  were  too  intense  and  their  feeUngs  at  this 
critical  period  too  poignant  to  make  it  possible  for  them 
to  find  forgetfulness  in  sleep.  And  no  sooner  did  the  hoofs 
of  the  horses  of  the  cavalcade  of  the  officer  of  the  day 
resound  on  the  pavement  of  the  streets  than  some  shadow 
would  be  projected  from  a  roof,  or  the  shutter  of  some 
darkened  room  would  be  cautiously  opened  to  give  passage 
to  an  uneasy  and  searching  glance. 

"Our  good  city  does  not  sleep,  General,"  observed  Daniel, 
who  was  riding  at  Mancilla's  side;  ''have  you  not  noticed 
that  this  is  the  case?" 

"They  are  all  waiting,  my  friend,"  answered  General 
Mancilla,  from  whose  lips  a  word  rarely  fell  that  v/as  not 
either  malicious,  satirical,  or  ambiguous  in  its  meaning. 

"But  are  they  all  waiting  for  the  same  thing,  General?" 

"All." 

"It  is  amazing  what  unanimity  of  opinion  there  is  under 
our  Federal  Government!" 

Mancilla  turned  round  and  glanced  furtively  at  the  jewel 
at  his  side,  as  he  had  called  him,  and  then  answered : 

"Especially  in  one  thing.     Can  you  guess  what  that  is?" 

"Upon  my  honor  I  cannot." 

"There  is  a  wonderful  unanimity  in  the  desire  which 
there  is  that  this  should  end  as  soon  as  possible." 

"This  ?    And  what  is  this.  General  ?" 

Mancilla  glanced  again  at  Daniel,  for  the  question  was  a 
direct  attack  upon  his  confidence. 

"The  situation,  I  mean." 

"Ah,  the  situation !  But  the  political  situation  will  never 
end  for  you.  General  Mancilla?" 

"What  do  you  mean?" 

"You  are  not  the  man  to  lead  a  domestic  life;  it  is  a 
necessity  with  you  to  engage  in  public  aft'airs,  and  whether 


CONTINUATION  OF  THE  PRECEDING      293 

in  support  of  or  in  opposition  to  the  Government,  you  will 
always  play  a  prominent  part  in  our  country." 

**Even  if  the  Unitarians  should  come  into  power?" 

"Even  so.  There  are  many  of  our  Federals  who  will 
figure  among  them." 

"Yes;  and  some  in  very  eminent  positions — on  the  gal- 
lows, for  instance;  but  in  any  case  we  should  always  be 
on  the  side  of  the  Restorer." 

The  equivocal  meaning  of  the  phrase  did  not  escape 
Daniel's  observation,  but  he  continued  with  infantile 
naturalness  : 

"Yes,  he  deserves  that  we  should  all  stand  by  him  in 
this  emergency." 

"Do  you  not  think  that  man's  good  fortune  is 
wonderful  ?" 

"That  is  because  he  represents  the  Federal  cause." 

"Which  is  the  best  of  causes,  is  it  not?"  said  Mancilla, 
looking  fixedly  at  Daniel. 

"So  I  learned  in  the  sessions  of  the  Constituent 
Assembly." 

Mancilla  bit  his  lip;  he  had  been  a  Unitarian  in  the 
Assembly,  but  the  expression  on  Daniel's  countenance  was 
so  candid  that  the  astute  old  man  could  not  be  sure  whether 
the  words  were  a  sarcasm  or  not. 

"A  cause,"  continued  Daniel,  "that  will  never  be  ruined 
by  the  Unitarians.  We  must  make  no  mistake — it  is  only 
the  Federals  who  can  destroy  General  Rosas." 

"One  v/ould  think  you  were  fifty,  Sefior  Bello." 

"That  is  because  I  pay  a  great  deal  of  attention  to  what 
I  hear  talked  about." 

"And  what  do  you  hear  talked  about?" 

"The  popularity  which  some  of  the  Federals  enjoy;  you, 
for  instance,  General." 


294  AMALH 

"I?'* 

''Yes,  you.  If  it  were  not  for  the  family  ties  which 
unite  you  to  the  Governor  he  would  keep  a  close  watch 
upon  you,  for  he  cannot  be  ignorant  of  the  popularity  that 
you  enjoy,  and  especially  of  your  ability  and  your  valor. 
Although  I  have  heard  it  said  that,  speaking  on  one  occa- 
sion of  this  last,  in  1835,  he  said  you  were  good  for  nothing 
but  twopenny  riots." 

Mancilla,  pushing  his  horse  close  to  Daniel's,  said  in  an 
angry  voice : 

"That  is  just  like  what  that  brutal  gaucho  would  say. 
But  do  you  know  why  he  said  it?" 

"Perhaps  he  said  it  in  jest,  General,"  answered  Daniel, 
with  the  utmost  composure. 

"He  said  it  because  he  fears  me,"  replied  Mancilla,  press- 
ing Daniel's  arm  and  muttering  the  name  of  Rosas,  coupled 
with  an  epithet  not  to  be  uttered  in  polite  society. 

This  brusque  declaration  was  in  keeping  with  Mancilla's 
character,  a  mixture  of  courage  and  petulance,  of  daring 
and  indiscretion.  But  the  situation  was  so  serious  that  he 
at  once  became  conscious  that  he  had  gone  too  far  in  his 
confidences  with  Daniel;  but  it  was  now  too  late  to  retreat 
and  thinking  his  best  course  would  be  to  draw  similar  con- 
fidences, if  possible,  from  his  companion,  he  said  to  him 
with  his  natural  astuteness: 

*T  know  that  if  I  were  to  call  upon  them,  I  should  have 
all  the  young  men  on  my  side,  for  there  is  not  one  of 
you  who  likes  the  present  order  of  things." 

"Do  you  know.  General,  that.  I  think  so  too,"  answered 
Daniel,  as  if  the  idea  had  now  occurred  to  him  for  the 
first  time  in  his  life. 

"And  you  would  be  the  first  to  be  on  my  side  ?'" 

"In  a  revolution?" 


CONTINUATION  OF  THE  PRECEDING      295 

"In — in  anything/'  said  Mancilla,  not  venturing  to  pro- 
nounce that  word. 

"I  think  you  would  have  many  to  join  you." 

"But  would  you  be  one  of  them?"  asked  Mancilla,  per- 
sisting in  his  attempt  to  draw  some  confidential  expression 
from  this  young  man,  who  had  just  become  the  depositary 
of  an  enormous  indiscretion  of  his. 

"I  ?  Well,  you  see,  General,  I  could  not  be  one  of  them, 
for  a  very  simple  reason." 

"And  what  is  that?" 

"Because  I  have  sworn  never  to  join  the  young  men 
of  my  age  in  anything,  since  most  of  them  have  become 
Unitarians,  while  I  follow  and  profess  the  principles  of 
the  Federation." 

"Bah!  bah!  bah!" 

And  Mancilla  drew  his  horse  away  from  Daniel's,  trying 
to  persuade  himself  that  the  latter  was  only  a  talkative 
boy,  whose  ideas  were  of  no  importance  whatever,  since 
a  vain  scruple  like  this  could  not  find  place  in  a  superior 
mind. 

"Besides,  General,"  continued  Daniel,  as  if  he  had  ob- 
served nothing,  "I  have  a  horror  of  politics ;  my  tastes  lean 
more  to  literature  and  the  ladies,  as  I  told  Agustinita  this 
afternoon,  when  she  asked  me  to  accompany  you  to-night." 

"So  I  believe,"  answered  Mancilla  drily. 

"What  would  you  have?  I  wish  to  be  as  true  a  son 
of  Buenos  Ayres  as  General  Mancilla  is." 

"How  so?" 

"I  mean  that  I  wish  to  stand  as  high  in  the  favor  of  the 
ladies  as  he  does." 

The  tender  passion  had  always  been  the  weak  point  of 
General  Mancilla,  as  his  strong  point  had  been  an  aptitude 
for  political  intrigues;  and  Daniel  proceeded  td  humor  it. 


296  AMALIA 

"But  those  days  are  over,"  said  Mancilla,  smiling. 

"Not  for  history." 

"Bah,  history!     And  what  do  we  gain  by  that?" 

"Nor  for  the  present  time,  if  you  choose." 

"That  is  not  true." 

"It  is  true.  There  are  a  thousand  Unitarians  who  hate 
General  Mancilla  because  they  envy  him  his  wife." 

"My  wife  is  beautiful,  is  she  not?"  said  Mancilla,  almost 
coming  to  a  halt  and  looking  at  his  companion  with  a  face 
beaming  with  gratified  vanity. 

"She  is  the  queen  of  beauty;  even  the  Unitarians  them- 
selves confess  that;  and  I  think  if  that  has  been  your 
latest  conquest  it  is  worth  all  the  rest  put  together." 

"As  for  being  the  latest " 

"There,  I  wish  to  know  nothing.  General ;  I  am  very  fond 
of  Agustinita  and  I  do  not  desire  to  hear  about  your 
infidelities  to  her." 

"Ah,  my  friend,  if  you  have  as  cajoling  a  way  with  the 
women  as  you  have  with  the  men  you  will  have  more 
adventures  in  the  course  of  your  hfe  than  ever  I  had." 

"I  don't  understand  you.  General,"  answered  Daniel, 
feigning  the  utmost  surprise. 

"Let  us  drop  the  subject ;  we  are  at  Ravelo's  quarters." 

They  had,  in  fact,  arrived  at  the  barracks,  where  a 
hundred  aged  negro  soldiers,  under  the  command  of  Colonel 
Ravelo,  were  asleep ;  and  having  made  the  prescribed  in- 
spection they  proceeded  to  the  quarters  of  the  fourth  bat- 
talion of  patricians,  commanded  by  Ximeno;  and  those  of 
some  other  reserves. 

But,  strange  to  say,  the  champagne  of  the  Federation  did 
not  now  seem  to  effervesce  in  the  bosoms  of  its  enthusiastic 
sons ;  for  the  questions,  the  answers  and  the  remarks  which 
passed  between  the  officer  of  the  day  and  the  chiefs  whom 


CONTINUATION  OF  THE  PRECEDING      297 

he  visited,  were  without  spirit.  And  what  happened  there 
was  happening  everywhere  and  among  all  classes.  A  cause 
without  faith,  without  conscience,  without  genuine  en- 
thusiasm, which  trembled  and  grew  faint  at  the  first  menace 
of  its  poUtical  adversaries;  priests  without  religion  who 
prostrated  themselves  before  an  idol  that  was  already  tot- 
tering to  its  fall  upon  its  altar  of  skulls. 

Daniel  saw  and  noted  all  this  and  he  said  to  himself  at 
every  step: 

"With  two  hundred  men  at  my  back  I  would  deliver  all 
these  people  bound  hand  and  foot  to  General  Lavalle." 

It  was  three  in  the  morning  before  General  Mancilla 
turned  his  horse's  head  in  the  direction  of  his  house,  in 
the  Calle  del  Potosi. 

Daniel  accompanied  him  to  the  door.  But  he  did  not 
wish  that  the  brother-in-law  of  Rosas  should  go  to  sleep 
uneasy  on  account  of  his  confidences  and  he  said  to  him 
on  reaching  the  house : 

"General,  you  have  doubted  me  and  I  am  sorry  for  it!'* 

"I,  Senor  Bello !" 

"Yes;  knowing  that  all  our  young  men  have  allowed 
themselves  to  be  led  away  by  the  madmen  of  Montevideo, 
you  wished  to  sound  me,  saying  things  you  did  not  mean; 
for  I  know  well  that  the  Restorer  has  no  better  friend 
than  General  Mancilla;  but  happily  you  have  discovered 
nothing  in  me  but  Federal  patriotism.  Is  not  that  true?'* 
asked  Daniel,  assuming  the  most  anxious  expression  in 
the  world. 

"Perfectly  true,"  answered  Mancilla,  shaking  hands  with 
him  and  smiling  at  the  poor  simple  boy,  as  he  called  him 
in  his  own  mind  at  that  moment. 

"So  that  I  may  count  upon  your  protection.  General?" 

"Always  and  at  all  times,  Bello." 


298  AMALIA 

"Very  well;  good-bye  until  to-morrow/' 

''Until  to-morrow ;  thanks  for  your  company." 

And  Daniel  turned  his  horse  around,  inwardly  laughing 

and  saying  to  himself: 

"I  would  not  have  given  a  straw  for  my  life  so  long 

as  you  believed  I  possessed  your  secret;  now  you  have 

allowed  me  to  redeem  it  and  I  have  not  returned  you  your 

pledge.    Good-night,  General  Mancilla." 


CHAPTER  XXXII 

COUNTRY,   LOVE   AND   FRIENDSHIP 

When  Daniel,  reached  his  house  he  took  his  horse  to 
the  stable  himself^  as  the  faithful  Fermin  was  not  expecting 
him  and  the  other  servants  knew  nothing  of  their  master's 
nocturnal  excursion.  He  called  one  of  them,  however,  and 
desired  him  to  hold  himself  in  readiness  to  receive  his 
orders. 

Then,  lighting  a  candle,  after  visiting  the  bedroom  in 
which  Eduardo  was  asleep  and  which  adjoined  his  own, 
Daniel  entered  his  study  and  threw  himself  into  a  chair. 

But  suddenly,  pushing  back  his  disordered  hair  from  his 
forehead,  he  rose  and  going  to  his  desk  seated  himself 
before  it,  took  several  letters  from  a  secret  drawer,  read 
them,  one  after  another,  made  a  note  of  the  date  of  one 
of  them,  and  then  wrote  the  following  letter,  which  he  read 
over  afterward  with  perfect  composure: 

Senor  Bouchet  Martigny,  etc.,  etc. 

Buenos  Ayres,  September  i,  1840. 
At  four  o'clock  in  the  morning. 
"My  dear  Seno*-  Martigny: 

"I  have  received  your  letters  of  the  22nd  and  the  24th 
ult.  and  that  of  the  latter  date  confirms  me  in  the  flattering 
belief  that  the  righteous  cause  of  my  country  is  finding 
proselytes,  not  only  among  her  sons,  but  also  among  men 
of  heart,  whatever  the  land  of  their  birth ;  and  the  solicita- 
tions which,  as  you  inform  me,  have  been  addressed  by 

299 


300  AMALIA 

compatriots  of  yours  to  the  French  Government  concern- 
ing the  affairs  of  the  Plata,  and  in  favor  of  the  Argentine 
cause,  are  so  many  titles  to  our  gratitude  to  those  noble 
exceptions  among  the  peoples  of  Europe,  v^ho  understand 
us  so  little  and  who  love  us  even  less. 

*'But  in  acquitting  myself  of  my  share  of  this  debt  of 
gratitude,  I  must  say  to  you  frankly  that  in  the  extremity 
at  which  matters  have  arrived,  any  intervention  that  might 
come  from  Europe,  v/hether  favorable  or  adverse  to  our 
cause,  would  come  too  late  to  influence  the  issue  of  events, 
for  the  question  between  the  two  political  parties  will  soon 
be  decided  by  force  of  arms, 

"To  my  mind,  the  situation  involves  a  plain  and  con- 
clusive dilemma  in  this  respect — either  the  city  will  be 
taken  before  a  fortnight  is  over,  and  the  power  of  Rosas 
will  be  forever  destroyed,  or  the  Liberating  Army  will 
retreat,  and  then  all  will  be  lost  for  years  to  come,  and 
so  utterly  lost  as  to  preclude  all  possibility  of  recovery, 
even  with  the  aid  of  a  foreign  power. 

"To  give  General  Lavalle  all  the  aid  possible,  is  the  only 
advisable  course  in  the  present  situation;  but  to  give  it  to 
him  without  loss  of  time;  for  otherwise,  from  the  moral 
effect  which  a  sudden  invasion  of  the  city  rather  than  an 
attack  on  the  redoubts  of  Santos  Lugares  would  produce, 
there  might  result  only  the  triumph  of  an  army  which  does 
not  number  three  thousand  men  of  whom  two-thirds  are 
cavalry,  which  has  to  fight  against  a  force  numerically 
twice  as  strong  as  itself,  and  which  cannot  and  ought  not  to 
count  upon  the  slightest  cooperation  from  the  inhabitants 
of  Buenos  Ayres,  until  the  din  of  its  arms  and  its  vivas 
for  the  country  resound  in  the  streets  of  the  city  itself. 

"This  apparent  contradiction  in  a  people  the  majority  of 
whom  execrate  the  chains  that  bind  them  and  who  ardently 


COUNTRY,  LOVE  AND  FRIENDSHIP        301 

long  for  the  rebirth  of  their  country's  hberty,  the  Unita- 
rians, I  am  well  aware,  are  resolved  to  take  no  account  of ; 
because  they  will  not  acknoweldge  that  the  people  of 
Buenos  Ayres  are  not  in  1840  what  they  were  in  1810.  This 
is  an  error  that  does  them  honor;  but  it  is,  after  all,  an 
error,  and  since  the  events,  now  become  a  part  of  history, 
that  have  occurred  in  the  northern  part  of  the  province, 
have  destroyed  half  the  hopes  of  the  Unitarians,  and  argue 
strongly  against  those  which  they  have  founded  on  the 
city,  I  believe  it  to  be  undeniably  expedient  to  count  upon 
no  other  resources  than  those  which  the  army  has  in  itself. 

"It  is  a  material  impossibility  to  establish  to-day  an 
association  of  ten  men  in  Buenos  Ayres;  individualism  is 
the  cancer  that  is  eating  away  the  vitals  of  this  people. 
This  phenomenon  is  explicable,  is  even  justifiable,  I  might 
say,  but  this  is  not  the  time  for  philosophical  disquisitions, 
but  to  take  facts  as  they  are,  good  and  bad  together,  and 
make  them  a  basis  of  calculation  for  fixed  operations.  And 
it  is  upon  the  fact  of  non-revolution  in  Buenos  Ayres,  that 
the  Liberating  Army  must  calculate  its  operations. 

"Without  any  other  resources  than  his  own  ought 
General  Lavalle  to  proceed  against  Rosas  or  not? 

"Before  answering  this  question,  however,  I  should  like 
to  make  General  Lavalle,  and  all  the  world,  understand 
that  the  power  of  Rosas  is  not  in  the  marshes,  the  trenches, 
the  cannons  and  the  soldiers  of  Santos  Lugares ;  that  it  is 
in  the  capital;  that  it  is  in  the  fortress.  Buenos  Ayres, 
I  might  say,  is  the  head;  the  rest  of  the  country  only 
subordinate  members.  It  is  in  Buenos  Ayres  that  the  re- 
action must  set  in,  in  the  revolutionary  current  which  is  to 
flow  thence  throughout  the  whole  republic.  And  in  this 
case  the  problem  to  be  solved  is  simply  whether  it  is  ex- 
pedient or  not  to  march  upon  the  capital,  flanking  the  camp 


302  AMALIA 

of  Rosas,  and  take  possession  of  It,  leaving  him  master 
of  the  plains. 

''Were  I  in  General  Lavalle's  position  I  would  not 
hesita'3  to  decide  upon  the  former  course;  for  I  have  the 
firm  conviction  that  if  the  army  retreats,  both  the  cause 
and  the  army  are  lost ;  and  at  this  juncture  I  should  prefer 
to  risk  this  immense  loss  on  the  only  ground  which  offers 
a  possibility  of  victory. 

''In  this  city  there  can  be  no  resistance;  the  Federals 
are  depressed  by  the  mere  uncertainty  of  events;  and  half 
of  them,  at  least,  would  willingly  desert  to  General  Lavalle, 
to  seek  in  their  treachery  to  Rosas  a  guarantee  for  the 
future. 

"In  the  letter  preceding  this  I  gave  you  all  particulars 
in  regard  to  the  barracks,  troops  of  the  line,  etc.,  in  the 
city;  and  if  the  present  one  will  contribute  to  induce  you 
to  consider  the  plan  I  advise,  I  shall  have  attained  my 
object,  for  I  do  not  doubt  but  that  on  examination  it  will 
meet  with  your  approval. 

"Accept,  Senor  Martigny,  the  assurance  of  my  profound 
consideration. 

Daniel  sealed  this  letter  with  a  special  seal;  and  then, 
writing  an  address  upon  it  for  Mr.  Douglas,  put  it  into 
a  secret  drawer  of  his  desk. 

Then  he  wrote  the  following  letter: 

"Amalia:  The  apparition  was  no  other  than  Mariiio.  I 
have  succeeded  in  mystifying  him  completely.  He  does 
not  know  whether  or  not  to  believe  that  he  followed  me 
and  discovered  your  abode.  But  that  very  doubt  will 
irritate  him  all  the  more  and  he  will  endeavor  to  set  it 
at  rest. 


COUNTRY,  LOVE  AND  FRIENDSHIP       303 

'Trom  this  day  forth  my  footsteps  will  be  dogged  more 
persistently  than  even 

'There  is  no  help  for  it ;  in  the  difficulties  that  surround 
us  the  only  course  is  boldness,  which,  in  difficult  situations, 
is  prudence. 

''You  must  return  to  Barracas,  and  that  soon. 

"Make  all  your  arrangements  and  hold  yourself  in  readi- 
ness to  do  so  at  any  moment. 

"Events  are  hastening  to  a  crisis,  and  everything  must 
be  swift,  as  will  be  the  collision  between  our  good  and  our 
evil  fortune. 

"God  guard  the  right  !'*  This  letter  finished,  the  young 
man  wrote,  finally,  to  his  Florencia,  as  follows: 

"Soul  of  my  soul:  I  may  still  count  myself  fortunate, 
very  fortunate,  since,  depressed  and  exhausted  as  I  am, 
by  a  barren  though  terrible  struggle,  of  which  you  as  yet 
know  nothing,  I  have  your  heart  as  a  refuge  for  my  spirit, 
your  name,  to  draw  me  nearer  to  God  and  the  angels,  as 
I  write. 

"To-day  I  have  suffered  a  great  deal,  and  my  only  con- 
solation is  the  hope  I  have  that  you  will  lend  me  your 
aid  to  attain  my  desire — you  must  persuade  your  dear 
mother  to  make  the  journey  to  Montevideo;  but  soon — 
to-morrow,  if  possible.  And  if  it  be  necessary  for  your 
tranquillity  that  you  should  be  my  wife  before  your  depar- 
ture to-morrow,  the  church  will  unite  us,  as  God  has  already 
united  our  hearts,  forever. 

"In  the  sky  above  us,  in  the  air  we  breathe,  there  is 
to-day  misfortune  and  perhaps — Who  can  tell! — All  is 
to-day  ominous.  I  do  not  desire  your  hand,  that  is  to 
say,  my  happiness,  my  pride,  my  paradise,  in  these  moments, 
but  I  will  claim  it  if  it  be  necessary  to  your  departure. 

"Ask  me  nothing.     All  I  can  tell  you  is  that  I  would 


304  AMALIA 

like  to  lift  you  above  the  stars  that  the  air  of  these  times 
might  not  blow  upon  your  brow.  Do  not  ask  me  to  follow 
you.  I  cannot — Fixed  as  doom,  my  fate  is  already  decided. 
I  am  bound  to  Buenos  Ayres,  and — But  we  shall  soon  see 
each  other — within  a  week,  within  a  fortnight,  at  farthest. 
It  is  a  century,  is  it  not?  No  matter;  in  the  clouds,  in 
the  air,  in  the  light,  you  will  speak  to  me,  Florencia,  and 
I  will  treasure  your  words  in  the  shrine  which  holds  your 
image  in  my  soul. 

''Will  you  please  me  in  this? 

"Madame  Dupasquier  will  refuse  you  nothing. 

"And  I  have  never  asked  anything  from  you,  that  was 
not  for  your  happiness  and  mine. 

"Daniel." 

The  young  man  closed  this  last  letter,  placed  It  in  his 
breast  and  waited  for  the  morning  to  address  it  with  the 
others. 


CHAPTER  XXXIII 

DON    CANDIDO    RODRIGUEZ    APPEARS    AS    HE   ALWAYS   APPEARS 

At  ten  o'clock,  on  the  morning  of  the  3rd  of  September, 
Don  Candido  Rodriguez,  with  his  inseparable  bamboo  cane, 
was  walking  down  the  Calle  de  la  Victoria  with  a  sur- 
prisingly firm  gait,  while  the  saffron  hue  of  his  countenance 
and  the  vagueness  of  his  gaze  might  make  one  beheve  for 
a  moment  that  he  wore  a  false  face,  seeing  portrayed  in 
his  countenance  a  feeling  exactly  the  reverse  of  the  feeling 
expressed  in  his  walk. 

Arrived  at  his  destination,  which  was  the  house  in  which 
our  readers  first  made  his  acquaintance  and  which,  as  may 
be  remembered,  was  Daniel's  house,  he  stopped  and 
knocked  for  admittance. 

A  few  moments  later  our  luckless  secretary  was  entering 
the  parlor  of  his  former  pupil,  whom  he  found  seated  in  a 
comfortable  rocking-chair,  tranquilly  reading  the  Gaceta 
Mercantil. 

"Daniel !" 

"Senor?" 

"Daniel!    Daniel!" 

"Senor!     Senorl" 

"We  are  on  the  brink  of  destruction/' 

"I  know  it." 

"You  know  it  and  you  will  not  save  us." 

"That  is  what  I  am  trying  to  do." 

"No,  Daniel,  no;  there  will  not  be  time." 

"So  much  the  better.'' 

305 


306  AMALIA 

*'What  do  you  mean?"  asked  Don  Candido,  opening  wide 
his  eyes  and  seating  himself  on  a  sofa  near  Daniel. 

"I  say,  sefior,  that  in  difficult  situations  the  best  thing 
to  do  is  to  end  them  quickly." 

"But  to  end  them  well,  you  mean?" 

"Or  end  them  ill." 

"111?" 

"Yes;  for,  well  or  ill,  it  is  always  better  than  to  live 
one  day  anticipating  good  and  the  next  day  evil  fortune." 

"And  the  evil  would  be " 

"That  they  should  cut  off  our  heads,  for  instance." 

"Let  them  cut  off  your  head,  and  that  of  every  other 
conspirator,  if  they  like,  but  not  mine.  I  am  a  peaceable, 
innocent,  quiet  man,  incapable  of  doing  wrong  designedly, 
with  premeditation,  with " 

"Sit  down,  my  dear  master,"  said  Daniel,  cutting  short 
the  discourse  of  the  schoolmaster  who,  as  he  spoke,  had 
been  gradually  rising  from  his  seat  on  the  sofa  and  was 
now  standing  erect. 

"What  have  I  done  or  what  have  I  ever  thought  of  doing 
that  I  should  find  myself  now,  as  I  do,  like  a  frail  bark 
tossed  about  on  the  waves  of  a  tempestuous  sea?" 

"What  have  you  done?" 

"Yes,  what  have  I  done?" 

"Oh!  what  you  have  done  is  a  trifle;  a  mere  nothing." 

"I  have  done  nothing,  Senor  Don  Daniel;  and  it  is  time 
now  that  our  partnership  should  cease,  should  come  to  an 
end,  should  be  dissolved  forever.  I  am  an  ardent  defender 
of  the  most  Illustrious  Restorer  in  the  world.  I  love  every 
member  of  the  respectable  family  of  his  Excellency,  as 
I  love  and  am  the  defender  of  the  other  governor,  Dr. 
Don  Felipe,  of  his  ancestors  and  of  all  his  children.  I 
have  desired " 


DON  CANDIDO  APPEARS  307 

"You  have  desired  to  emigrate,  Seilor  Don  Candido." 

"You;  and  that  is  a  crime  of  lese  Federation  which  is 
paid  for  witli  the  head." 

"The  proofs." 

"Senor  Don  Candido,  you  are  determined  that  someone 
shall  hang  you." 

"I  ?" 

"And  I  am  only  waiting  for  you  to  tell  me  whether 
you  wish  to  be  hanged  by  the  hand  of  Rosas  or  by  the 
hand  of  Lavalle.  If  the  former,  I  will  oblige  you  on  the 
instant,  by  paying  a  visit  to  Colonel  Salomon.  If  the  latter, 
I  will  wait  for  three  or  four  days  until  Lavalle  enters  the 
city,  and  at  the  first  opportunity  I  will  speak  to  him  of 
Don  Felipe's  secretary." 

"I  am  a  drowning  man,  then?" 

"No,  senor,  a  hanging  man,  if  you  will  persist  in  talking 
the  nonsense  you  have  been  talking." 

"But  Daniel,  my  son,  do  you  not  see  my  face?" 

"Yes,  senor." 

"And  what  do  you  read  in  it?" 

"Fear." 

"No,  not  fear;  distrust,  the  effect  of  the  terrific  sensa- 
tions by  which  I  have  been  just  overcome." 

"And  what  is  the  matter?" 

"On  my  way  here  from  the  Governor's  I  met  twice  those 

men  who  look  like — who  look  like " 

'     "What?" 

"Who  look  hke  devils  dressed  as  men." 

"Or  men  dressed  as  devils,  is  it  not  so  ?" 

"What  countenances,  Daniel ;  what  countenances !  And 
above  all,  those  knives  they  carry!  Do  you  believe  that 
one  of  those  men  would  be  capable  of  killing  me,  Daniel  ?" 


308  AMALIA 

"No,  I  do  not  think  so.  What  have  you  ever  done  to 
them?" 

"Nothing,  nothing.  But,  fancy,  if  they  should  mistake 
me  for  someone  else,  and " 

"Bah,  let  us  drop  the  subject,  my  dear  friend.  You  told 
me  that  you  left  Arana's  house  to  come  here,  did  you  not?" 

"Yes,  yes,  Daniel." 

"Consequently,  you  had  some  object  in  coming  here?" 

"Yes." 

"And  what  was  it,  my  friend?'* 

"I  don't  know;  I  don't  wish  to  mention  it  now.  I  want 
no  more  politics,  nor  confidences." 

"Ah,  then  it  is  a  political  secret  you  have  come  to  confide 
to  me?" 

"I  have  not  said  so." 

"And  I  wager  that  yoti  have  some  important  document 
in  your  coat  pocket." 

"I  have  nothing." 

"And  I  wager  that  if  some  Federal  brother  should  take 
it  into  his  head  to  search  you  when  3^ou  leave  this  house, 
to  see  if  you  carry  arms,  and  should  find  that  document 
on  your  person,  that  he  would  despatch  you  in  the  twinkling 
of  an  eye." 

"Daniel !" 

"Sefior,  will  you  give  me  the  documents  you  have  brought 
me  or  not  ?" 

"On  one  condition." 

"What  is  it?" 

"That  you  will  not  require  from  me  that  I  shall  continue 
longer  to  be  false  to  my  duties." 

"That  would  be  so  much  the  worse  for  you;  for  before 
four  days  are  over  Lavalle  will  be  in  Buenos  Ayres." 


DON  CANDIDO  APPEARS  309 

''Well,  and  would  you  not  in  that  case  bear  witness  to 
the  immense  services  I  have  rendered  to  liberty?" 

"Not  if  you  stop  halfway  on  the  road." 

"And  do  you  think  that  Lavalle  will  enter  the  city?" 

"That  is  what  he  has  come  for." 

"Well,  now,  between  ourselves,  I  think  so  too;  and  it 
is  for  that  reason  that  I  have  come  to  see  you.  There  has 
been  an  encounter." 

"Where?"  asked  Daniel,  quickly,  a  flush  mounting  to  his 
face,  in  which  the  various  emotions  that  had  shaken  his 
soul  during  the  last  few  days  had  made  notable  ravages. 

"Read  this." 

Daniel,  unfolding  the  paper  which  Don  Candido  had 
given  him  read  as  follows: 

"San  Pedro,  September  i. 

"Two  days  ago  Mascarilla,  with  a  thousand  men,  as- 
saulted the  town,  which  displayed  extraordinary  valor, 
repulsing  him  vigorously.  He  had  with  him  a  piece  of 
ordnance,  one  hundred  and  fifty  foot  soldiers  and  about 
six  hundred  horsemen.  He  made  the  attack  from  two  sides 
simultaneously.  They  penetrated  at  one  time  as  far  as 
the  plaza,  but  they  were  repulsed  by  a  hot  fire  from  us. 
The  loss  exceeds  one  hundred  men. 

"I  enclose  copies  of  the  communication  which  I  received 
from  the  general. 

"To-morrow  I  will  write  to  you  in  detail. 

"Juan  Cameling." 

"Senor  D." 

"Let  me  see  the  document  to  which  he  refers,"  said 
Daniel,  after  a  silence  of  more  than  ten  minutes,  during 
which  he  kept  his  eyes  fixed  on  the  paper  he  held  in  his 


310  AMALIA 

hand,  while  his  expressive  countenance  was  clouded  by 
sorrow  and  dejection. 

''Here  it  is,"  said  Don  Candido.  ''They  are  both  docu- 
ments of  importance,  which  were  found  in  a  boat  taken 
last  night.     I  copied  them  hastily  to  bring  them  to  you." 

Daniel  took  the  paper,  without  hearing  Don  Candido's 
words  and  read  what  follows: 

"Liberating  Army,  General's  Quarters,  on  the  march. 

"August  29,  1840. 
*'Senor  Don  Juan  Camelino,  Military  Commandant  of  San 
Pedro. 

"The  General-in-Chief  has  the  satisfaction  of  informing 
you,  in  order  that  you  may  communicate  the  news  to  the 
troops  under  your  command,  that  through  communications 
which  have  been  intercepted  from  Don  Felix  Aldao  to  the 
tyrant  Rosas,  it  has  become  known  that  the  feeling  of 
the  towns  of  the  interior  is  most  favorable  to  the  cause  of 
liberty.  The  Provinces  of  Cordoba,  San  Luis  and  San 
Juan  have  refused  to  give  Aldao  the  aid  which  he  solicited. 
The  Province  of  Rioja  has  risen  en  masse  against  the 
tyranny  of  Rosas  and  has  armed  a  force  of  cavalry  and 
eight  hundred  infantry.  General  La-Madrid,  who  entered 
the  territory  of  Cordoba  at  the  head  of  an  army  of  the 
brave  friends  of  liberty,  will  soon  come  to  support  the 
operations  of  the  Liberating  Army. 

"The  Vega  division  routed  completely  at  Navarro  the 
militia  which  Chirino  had  assembled.  The  army  counts 
upon  a  squadron  of  this  militia. 

"The  General-in-Chief  has  learned  that  the  militia  of 
Magdalena  have  revolted,  abandoning  their  leaders  on  re- 
ceiving from  them  the  order  to  join  the  army  of  Rosas. 
The  cause  of   liberty  is  making  rapid  progress,  and  the 


DON  CANDIDO  APPEARS  311 

General-in-Chief  hopes  that  victory  will  soon  crown  the 
efforts  of  the  soldiers  of  the  country,  among  whom  the 
brave  defenders  of  San  Pedro  will  occupy  a  distinguished 
place. 

"You  will  inform  the  troops  under  your  command  of 
the  news  which  I  communicate  to  you,  with  the  assurance 
that  the  Liberating  Army  does  not  imitate  the  systematic 
lying  by  which  the  tyrant  endeavors  to  conceal  his  critical 
situation, 

**You  will  send  a  copy  of  this  communication  to  the 
Justice  of  the  Peace  of  Baradero. 

"God  guard  you. 

"Juan  Lavalle." 

"What  do  you  think  of  it?"  asked  Don  Candido  when 
Daniel  had  finished  reading  the  document. 

The  young  man  did  not  answer. 

"They  are  coming,  Daniel;  they  are  coming." 

"No,  seiior,  they  are  going,"  responded  the  young  man; 
and  crushing  the  paper  between  his  hands  he  rose  and 
began  to  pace  die  floor,  impatience  and  disgust  stamped 
upon  his  countenance. 

"Have  you  lost  your  senses,  Daniel?" 

"It  is  others  who  have  lost  their  senses,  not  I." 

"But  if  they  have  defeated  Lopez,  my  dear  and  esteemed 
Daniel !" 

"That  is  of  no  consequence." 

"If  they  are  already  in  Lujan!" 

"That  is  of  no  consequence." 

"Do  you  not  see  by  what  ardent,  fiery,  tremendous  en- 
thusiasm they  are  animated?" 

"That  is  of  no  consequence." 

"Are  you  in  your  senses,  Daniel  ?" 


312  AMALIA 

**Yes,  senor;  those  who  are  not  in  their  senses  are  those 
who  are  thinking  about  the  provinces,  showing  thereby  that 
they  do  not  confide  in  their  own  resources,  nor  see  the 
opportunity  that  presents  itself  to  them,  two  steps  away. 
Strange  fatahty,  that  which  pursues  this  party  and  with  it 
our  country!"  exclaimed  the  young  man,  who  continued 
pacing  the  floor  with  agitated  steps,  while  Don  Candido 
looked  at  him  in  amazement. 

"Then  we  Federals  were  right  in  saying " 

"That  the  Unitarians  are  not  worth  a  rush ;  you  are  right, 
Senor  Don  Candido!" 

At  this  moment  a  loud  double  knock  was  heard  at  the 
street  door. 


CHAPTER  XXXIV 

PYLADES  ANGRY 

Don  Candido  trembled. 

Daniel's  countenance  changed  as  suddenly  and  as  com- 
pletely as  if  another  face  had  been  substituted  for  his  own ; 
before,  visibly  altered  and  disturbed,  it  was  now  tranquil 
and  almost  smiling. 

A  servant  appeared  to  announce  a  lady. 

Daniel  gave  orders  to  show  her  in. 

"Shall  I  retire,  my  son?"  asked  Don  Candido. 

"There  is  no  need,  sefior.'* 

*Tt  is  true  that  I  do  not  wish  to  do  so ;  I  would  prefer 
to  wait  until  you  are  going  out  and  go  in  your  company.'* 

Daniel  smiled.  And  at  this  moment  a  woman  whose 
skirts  rustled  as  if  they  were  made  of  tissue  paper,  with  a 
Federal  topknot  half  a  yard  long,  and  stiff,  brown,  glossy 
curls  falling  down  either  side  of  a  round,  plump,  swarthy 
face,  appeared  at  the  parlor  door. 

"Come  in,  Misia  Marcelina,"  said  Daniel,  rising;  *'you 
have  something  to  say  to  me;  let  us  go  into  my  study;" 
and  he  led  the  way  into  his  study,  followed  by  Dona 
Marcelina. 

"Douglas  has  arrived,"  said  the  latter,  after  closing  the 
study  door  behind  her. 

"When  did  he  arrive?" 

"This  morning.'' 

"And  he  left?" 

313 


314  AMALIA 

*The  day  before  yesterday.     Here  is  the  letter." 

Daniel,  seating  himself  at  his  study  table,  read  the  letter 
handed  to  him  by  Dofia  Marcelina — one  of  his  private 
couriers,  as  the  reader  already  knows — and  then  rem.ained 
sunk  in  thought  for  more  than  ten  minutes ;  a  period  em- 
ployed by  Dofia  Marcelina  in  examining  the  titles  of  the 
books  on  the  shelves,  smiling  and  nodding,  as  if  she  were 
saluting  old  friends. 

''Could  you  find  Douglas  before  three  in  the  afternoon  ?" 

"Yes." 

''With  certainty  ?" 

"At  this  moment  the  intrepid  mariner  is  sleeping." 

"Well,  then,  I  wish  you  to  go  to  his  house." 

"I  will  go  on  the  instant." 

"And  tell  him  that  I  wish  to  see  him  before  night." 

"Here?" 

"Yes,  here." 

"I  will  do  so." 

"Let  us  fix  an  hour — I  will  expect  him  between  five  and 
six  in  the  afternoon." 

"Very  good." 

"Lose  no  time,  Dona  Marcelina." 

"I  will  fly  on  the  wings  of  fate." 

"No,  walk ;  nothing  more ;  it  is  not  well  to  make  one's 
self  conspicuous  in  these  times,  by  going  either  very  fast 
or  very  slow." 

"I  will  follow  the  flight  of  your  thoughts." 

"Good-bye,  then.  Dona  Marcelina." 

"The  gods  be  with  you,  senor." 

"Ah!  and  how  is  Gaete?" 

"Destiny  has  spared  him." 

"Is  he  up?" 

"He  still  remains  in  bed." 


PYLADES  ANGRY  S15 

"So  much  the  better  for  my  friend  Don  Candido.  Good- 
bye, then,  Dona  MarceHna." 

And  while  the  latter  left  the  study  by  the  door  leading 
to  the  parlor,  Daniel  left  it  by  another  door  leading  to  his 
bedroom,  carrying  in  his  hand  the  letter  which  Dona  Mar- 
ceHna had  brought  him  from  Douglas  and  which  he  gave  to 
Dr.  Alcorta,  who  was  there  with  Eduardo,  saying: 

*'I  have  just  received  this  by  way  of  Montevideo." 

Dr.  Alcorta  took  the  letter  and  read: 

'Taris,  July  ii,  1840. 

*'Vice-Admiral  Mackau  has  been  named  to  command  the 
expedition  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata,  in  place  of  Vice- Admiral 
Baudin.  He  will  sail  immediately.  Senor  Mackau,  who 
belongs  to  a  distinguished  French  family,  has  the  honor 
of  having  terminated  satisfactorily  the  questions  which 
France  had  with  Santo  Domingo  and  Cartagena. 

"He  is  noted  for  his  bravery,  and  those  who  are  familiar 
with  the  naval  history  of  France  will  remember  his  glorious 
fight  with  the  Critie,  an  English  man-of-war.  In  the  recent 
unfortunate  v.^ar  between  France  and  England  Senor 
jMackau,  at  that  time  barely  seventeen  years  of  age,  was 
serving  on  a  French  brigantine  in  the  capacity  of  mid- 
shipman. A  pestilence  had  decimated  the  crew  of  the 
French  vessel  and  the  only  officer  who  survived  its  ravages 
was  Midshipman  Mackau.  Filled  with  noble  pride  at  find- 
ing himself  in  command  of  a  French  warship  he  resolved 
to  justify  the  selection  which  fate  had  made  by  some  daring 
feat  of  arms.  Shortly  afterward  he  fell  in  with  an  English 
man-of-war — it  was  the  Critie.  After  a  desperate  conflict 
Mackau  took  the  enemy's  vessel,  which  w^as  commanded 
by  a  veteran  naval  lieutenant.  When  this  honest  sailor 
entered  the  presence  of  his  conqueror,  seeing  that  the  latter 


816  AMALIA 

was  a  midshipman  of  seventeen,  in  command  of  a  crew 
decimated  by  pestilence,  his  grief  was  so  intense  that  it 
killed  him. 

"Cordially  yours,  etc." 

^'Everything  combines  to  hurry  events  to  an  end,  my 
friends,"  said  Dr.  Alcorta,  after  reading  the  letter. 

''Yes,  to  an  end,  but  what  will  that  end  be?" 

"Have  you  not  heard  that  an  expedition  is  coming, 
Daniel?" 

"Which  will  arrive  too  late,  and  which  meantime  inspires 
the  letters  that  are  written  to  General  Lavalle  from  Mon- 
tevideo not  to  expose  his  army  but  to  wait  for  the  ex- 
pedition, which  will  either  not  come  at  all,  or,  if  it  comes, 
will  make  Rosas  compromise  with  the  French  before  the 
troops  arrive  at  Rio  Janeiro." 

"But  that  would  be  infamous  on  the  part  of  France!" 
responded  Eduardo. 

"Political  actions  are  not  measured  by  the  same  standard 
as  personal  morality,  Eduardo." 

"And  is  it  certain  that  such  counsels  are  given  to  General 
Lavalle?"  asked  Dr.  Alcorta. 

"Yes,  sefior;  they  are  given  by  the  greater  number  of 
the  Argentine  commissioners,  who  will  see  no  hope  except 
from  a  large  army." 

"Ah!  if  I  were  Lavalle!"  exclaimed  Eduardo. 

"If  you  were  Lavalle  you  would  be  insane  by  this  time. 
The  General  is  thwarted  by  everyone  and  everything.  The 
refusal  of  Commandant  Penau  to  land  the  army  in  El 
Baradero,  instead  of  taking  it  to  San  Pedro,  has  caused 
the  General  to  lose  not  only  time  but  the  horses  that  were 
waiting  for  him  at  the  former  point.  Rivera's  hostility  has 
hampered  all  his  movements  for  a  year  past.    The  illusions 


PYLADES  ANGRY  317 

of  the  Unitarian  wiseacres  make  him  conceive  a  world  of 
flattering  hopes,  of  briUiant  anticipations  in  regard  to  the 
ready  support  which  he  will  find  in  the  provinces,  and  the 
General  comes  and  sees  the  actual  state  of  things,  and 
finds  no  such  support.  A  hundred  contradictory  letters 
come  every  day  from  Montevideo  to  him,  to  his  chiefs,  to 
his  officers,  advising  him  to  advance  and  not  to  advance, 
to  wait  and  not  to  wait.  There  are  not  ten  men  who  are 
of  the  same  opinion.  And  the  General  doubts  and  hesitates ; 
he  fears  to  march,  contrary  to  the  advice  of  men  worthy 
of  respect  from  the  names  they  bear;  and  he  marches 
slowly,  dissipating  his  forces,  pursuing  to-day  one  insig- 
nificant leader,  to-morrow  another;  and  it  is  now  the  3rd 
of  September,  and  he  is  less  than  a  league  distant  from 
Lujan,  and  meantime  Rosas  is  recovering  himself,  morally; 
his  men  are  recovering  from  their  first  fright;  and  he  will 
approach  the  city  to  take  a  look  at  it,  perhaps,  and  go 
away  again;  or,  perhaps,  that  there  may  be  a  great  deal 
of  bloodshed  which  a  fortnight  ago,  a  week  ago,  might 
have  been  avoided,"  said  Daniel,  in  melancholy  and  de- 
jected accents  which  visibly  impressed  his  friends. 

'That  is  all  true,  and  the  city  will  feel  the  full  weight 
of  the  anger  of  Rosas,  as  it  has  already  begun  to  feel  it," 
responded  Dr.  Alcorta. 

''Yes,  the  city,  senor,  the  city,  the  accomplice,  up  to  a 
certain  point,  of  the  barbarous  tyranny  that  oppresses  it, 
will  pay  with  its  blood,  with  its  liberty  and  with  its  reputa- 
tion for  its  fear  of  the  armed  enemies  of  the  tyrant  and 
for  the  egotism  of  its  citizens,  indifferent  alike  to  their 
country's  fate  and  to  their  own.  Much  blood  will  flow  if 
Lavalle  retreats,  and  all  thought  of  the  fall  of  Rosas  must 
be  abandoned  for  years  to  come." 

"But    we    are    reasoning    on    conjectures,"    responded 


318  AMALIA 

Eduardo.  *'Up  to  this,  the  army  continues  to  advance. 
To-morrow,  or  the  day  after,  at  farthest,  we  shall  have 
some  certain  knowledge.  Meantime,  Dr.  Alcorta  thinks 
with  you  and  me  that  our  private  plan  is  excellent.  Is 
not  that  true  ?" 

"Yes,  at  least  I  think  it  is  very  prudent,"  answered  Dr. 
Alcorta. 

"There  was  another  project  which  you  were  to  com- 
municate to  him." 

'T  know  it  already.    Regarding  that  I  have  some  doubts." 

"No,  sefior;  have  no  doubts;  it  is  true  that  we  are  few; 
I  have  been  able  to  assemble  only  fifteen  men,  but  we 
shall  be  fifteen  determined  men.  The  roof  we  are  to 
occupy,  at  the  same  time  that  it  will  serve  as  a  place  of 
meeting,  will  also  be  an  admirable  position  from  which 
to  keep  the  Calle  del  Colegio  free  from  obstructions,  if 
the  General  invades  the  city  on  the  side  of  Barracas,  as 
I  have  urged  him  to  do  and  leads  his  troops  up  the  Bar- 
ranca de  Marco,  which  is  the  most  important  point.  The 
place  which  I  have  chosen  is  the  best  in  all  that  long, 
straight  street ;  and  with  twenty-five  men  more,  whom  the 
General  should  leave  me,  I  would  answer  for  the  retreat, 
should  the  necessity  for  a  retreat  arrive." 

"Arms?" 

"I  have  forty-six  muskets  and  three  thousand  cartridges 
which  I  purchased  in  Montevideo,  and  which  are  now 
safe  in  Buenos  Ayres." 

"The  signal?" 

"That  which  they  shall  communicate  to  me  from  the 
army,  if  they  decide  upon  the  attack." 

"The  communications  are  safe?" 

"Perfectly  safe?" 

"Well,  then,  I  approve  with  all  the  more  reason  of  th^ 


PYLADES  ANGRY  S19 

second  plan,  as  it  will  be  necessary  that  you  should  be 
disembarrassed  of  domestic  affairs  to  be  ready  for  what- 
ever may  occur.  The  only  thing  I  fear  is  the  moment  of 
embarkation." 

*That  is  what  is  least  to  be  feared,  Doctor;  there  will 
be  no  risk.  I  have  just  sent  for  one  of  my  agents,  in 
order  to  send  a  letter  by  him  to  the  commander  of  one 
of  the  blockading  vessels  informing  him  of  our  purpose, 
and  asking  him  for  an  armed  boat,  for  the  only  danger 
would  be  in  meeting  one  of  the  government  boats  that 
patrol  the  coast." 

"Well  thought  of.'' 

"I  will  tell  the  commander  also  to  name  himself  the 
night,  and  the  hour,  and  the  signal  which  he  will  give  me 
from  on  board." 

'The  embarkation  will  be  at  San  Isidro?" 

*'Yes,  seiior.  Eduardo  will  have  already  given  you  all  the 
particulars  concerning  it." 

"He  has  done  so." 

"And   do  you  think  that  Madame   Dupasquier  will  be, 
able  to  bear  the  journey?" 

"What  I  think  is  that  she  will  not  be  able  to  bear  a 
fortnight  more  of  Buenos  Ayres.  Hers  is  one  of  those 
maladies  that  reside  in  no  one  of  the  organs  but  are  diffused 
through  the  springs  of  life  itself  which  they  rapidly  ex- 
haust and  dry  up.  The  moral  malady  of  that  lady  is  so 
deep-seated  that  it  has  already  affected  the  heart  and  lungs, 
and  her  life  is  wasting  away.  But  the  air  of  freedom  v/ill 
restore  her  to  health  with  the  same  rapidity  with  which 
the  want  of  it  is  killing  her  in  Buenos  Ayres." 

"And  is  she  entirely  willing  to  go?"  asked  Eduardo. 

"Last  night  she  agreed  to  everything,"  answered  Daniel. 

"And    to-day   she   eagerly   desires   to   go,"    added   Dr. 


320  AMALIA^ 

Alcorta ;  "and  she  is  willing  that  Daniel  shall  remain.  She 
loves  you  already,  my  friend,  as  if  you  were  her  son." 

"1  will  be  so,  senor;  and  if  I  do  not  become  so  to-morrow, 
to-day,  it  is  because  she  refuses  to  consent.  She  is  super- 
stitious, like  every  woman  of  heart,  and  she  would  fear 
for  a  marriage  contracted  in  these  most  sorrowful 
moments. '* 

"Yes,  yes,  it  is  better  as  it  is.  Who  knows  what  fate 
may  await  us!  Let  the  women  at  least  escape,"  said  Dr. 
Alcorta. 

"With  the  exception  of  my  cousin,  sefior.  There  is  no 
one  who  can  persuade  her  to  do  so." 

"Not  even  Belgrano?" 

"No  one,  sefior,"  answered  the  latter,  into  whose  heart 
Dr.  Alcorta's  question  had  sunk  deeply. 

"It  is  two  o'clock,  my  friends.  Are  you  going  to  San 
Isidro  to-day?" 

"Yes,  sefior,  this  evening;  and  we  will  be  back  before 
daybreak." 

"Be  cautious,  be  very  cautious,  for  Heaven's  sake !" 

"This  is  almost  our  last  journey  there,  senor,"  said 
Eduardo.  "As  soon  as  Madame  Dupasquier  sails  for  Mon- 
tevideo the  house  at  The  Olives  will  be  left  vacant." 

"Until  to-morrow,  then." 

"Until  to-morrow,  sefior." 

"Until  to-morrow,  my  dear  friend." 

And  the  two  young  men  embraced  their  former  professor 
of  philosophy,  whom  Daniel  accompanied  to  the  street  door. 


CHAPTER  XXXV 

THE  SMUGGLER  OF  MEN 

Dr.  Alcorta  had  hardly  left  the  room  when  a  double 
knock  was  heard  at  the  door  of  Daniel's  study,  which,  as 
the  reader  knows,  adjoined  the  parlor. 

"Wait  here,"  said  Daniel  to  Eduardo.  And  he  entered 
the  study,  a  little  surprised  to  hear  a  knock  at  the  door 
of  a  room  which  no  one  entered  without  his  express  orders. 

''Ah,  it  is  you,  my  dear  master?"  said  the  young  man, 
finding  himself  face  to  face  with  Don  Candido. 

"It  is  I,  Daniel,  I.  Forgive  me,  but,  the  fact  is,  that 
seeing  that  you  delayed  so  long  I  began  to  fear  that  you 
might  have  left  the  house  by  some  secret  door,  some  private 
passage  which  was  unknown  to  me ;  and,  as  for  some  time 
past  I  shun  solitude —  For  you  must  know,  my  esteemed 
Daniel,  that  solitude  affects  the  imagination,  a  faculty, 
which  according  to  what  philosophers  say,  works  both  for 
good  and  for  evil;  for  which  reason  I  prefer  the  faculty 
of  memory  which,  according  to  the  opinion  of  Quintil- 
lian " 

"Eduardo !" 

"What  is  the  matter?"  asked  the  latter,  entering. 

"How!     Belgrano  here?" 

"Yes,  seiior,  and  I  have  called  him  in  to  listen  to  your 
disquisition." 

"So  that  this  house  is  a  nest  of  dangers  for  me?" 

321  "^ 


322  AMALIA 

"How  is  that,  my  worthy  master?'*  asked  Eduardo,  sit- 
ting down  beside  him. 

''What  does  this  mean,  Daniel?  I  desire  a  frank,  con- 
clusive and  clear  explanation,"  continued  Don  Candido, 
addressing  Daniel,  and  drawing  away  his  chair  from 
Eduardo's.  '1  wish  to  learn  one  thing  that  shall  fix, 
determine  and  establish  my  position;  I  wish  to  know  what 
sort  of  house  this  is?" 

"What  sort  of  house  this  is?" 

"Yes." 

"Why,  a  house  like  any  other  house,  my  dear  master." 

"That  is  no  answer.  This  house  is  not  like  any  other 
house.  For  here  Unitarians  conspire  and  Federals  con- 
spire." 

"How  is  that,  senor?" 

A  quarter  of  an  hour  ago  you  received  in  your  house 
a  woman  whom  I  have  urgent  reasons  for  believing  to  be 
a  spy  of  the  Federals;  and  now  I  behold  in  your  private, 
your  innermost  apartments  this  mysterious  young  man  who 
has  fled  from  his  home  and  who  goes  from  one  house 
to  another  with  all  the  appearance  of  a  masked  and  secret 
conspirator." 

"Have  you  finished,  my  dear  master?" 

"No,  I  will  not  finish  without  telling  you  once,  twice, 
and  three  times  that  in  the  exalted  and  delicate  official  posi- 
tion which  I  occupy,  I  cannot  continue  to  maintain  relations 
with  a  house  for  which  I  can  find  no  perfect  grammatical 
definition.  And  since  I  do  not  know  what  sort  of  house 
this  is  I  wish  to  abstain  from  all  association  and  connection 
with  it." 

"Bui  the  thing  is,  Seilor  Don  Candido,"  responded  Daniel, 
"that  5^ou  have  called  my  friend  a  conspirator,  and  that 
does  not  seem  to  me  very  courteous  among  colleagues." 


THE  SMUGGLER  OF  MEN  323 

"Colleagues !  I  was  this  gentleman's  teacher  when  he 
was  an  innocent  and  tender  child.    But  since  that  time " 

"Since  that  time  you  have  had  him  concealed  in  your 
house,  my  dear  master." 

"That  was  an  act  in  which  my  will  had  no  part/' 

"No  matter." 

"But  I  have  never  been  his  colleague  in  anything,"  said 
Don  Candido. 

"But  you  are  so  now,  Sefior  Don  Candido,"  replied 
Daniel.     "Are  you  not  the  secretary  of  Senor  Arana?" 

"I  am." 

"Very  well;  this  gentleman  is  the  secretary  of  General 
Lavalle." 

"Secretary  of  General  Lavalle  1"  exclaimed  Don  Candido, 
rising  slowly  to  his  feet  and  staring  at  Eduardo  with  eyes 
that  seemed  starting  from  their  sockets. 

"Just  so,"  continued  Daniel ;  "and  as  you  are  the  secre- 
tary of  Arana  and  this  gentleman  is  the  secretary  of 
Lavalle,  it  follows  that  you  are  colleagues." 

"Secretary  of  Lavalle!     And  conversing  with  mel" 

"And  your  guest  a  few^  days  ago." 

"And  my  guest! " 

"And  very  grateful  to  you,  besides,  for  your  hospitality,'* 
added  Eduardo.  "So  much  so  that  the  first  visit  I  make, 
which  will  be  within  two  or  three  days,  will  be  to  you, 
my  dear  colleague." 

"You  in  my  house?  No,  seiior,  I  will  not,  I  cannot  be 
at  home  to  you." 

"Ah,  that  is  another  matter.  I  had  intended  to  go  visit 
my  old  master,  in  company  with  some  of  his  former  pupils 
who  are  coming  here  in  the  Liberating  Army  and  who  might 
serve  him  as  a  guarantee  in  the  just  reprisals  which  we 
intend  to  take  on  all  the  supporters  of  Rosas  and  Arana. 


324  AMALIA 

But  if  you  object,  why,  everyone  is  free  to  let  himself  be 
hanged  if  he  chooses." 

"But,  Senor  Secretary,"  responded  Don  Candido,  who  in 
truth  found  himself  in  a  state  of  pitiable  perplexity,  "I  do 
not  say  this  in  case  the  brave  and  intrepid  defenders  of 
his  Excellency  General  Lavalle  should  come  here;  but — 
Daniel — speak  for  me,  my  son — my  head  is  like  an  oven." 

"There  is  nothing  to  say,  senor,"  responded  the  other; 
"your  colleague  has  understood  you  perfectly.  We  all 
understand  one  another,  or  rather  we  shall  understand  one 
another." 

"Except  me,  my  dear  Daniel,  who  will  go  down  to  my 
grave  without  understanding,  without  comprehending,  with- 
out knowing  either  what  I  have  done  or  what  I  have  been, 
in  these  calamities  and  abominable " 

A  double  knock  at  the  street  door  arrested  the  words 
on  Don  Candido's  lips,  and  while  the  two  secretaries  re- 
mained in  the  study  Daniel  went  into  the  parlor  and  himself 
opened  the  door  leading  into  the  courtyard,  to  see  who 
his  visitor  was,  unable  yet  to  master  in  his  mind  or  in  his 
countenance  the  impression  produced  by  Don  Candido's 
news. 

"Ah !  it  is  you,  Mr.  Douglas !"  said  the  young  man  to 
an  individual  who  was  already  in  the  courtyard. 

"Yes,  senor,"  answered  the  latter.  "Dona  Marcelina  has 
just  spoken  to  me " 

"And  she  told  you  that  I  wished  to  see  you?" 

"Yes,  senor." 

"It  is  true.  Come  in,  Douglas.  You  left  Montevideo 
the  day  before  yesterday?" 

"Yes,  senor,  the  night  before  last." 

"Great  excitement  there,  eh?" 

"There  everybody  is  preparing  to  come  here,  and  here 


THE  SMUGGLER  OF  MEN  S25 

everybody  wants  to  get  away,"  answered  the  Scotchman, 
with  a  shrug. 

"So  that  you  are  making  money?" 

*'Not  much.  Last  month  I  made  seven  trips  and  I  took 
over  sixty-two  persons,  at  ten  ounces  each.'* 

"Ah,  that  is  not  bad." 

"Bah!    My  head  is  worth  more,  Senor  Don  Daniel." 

"Yes,  of  course.  But  it  would  be  easier  to  catch  Satan 
himself  than  to  catch  you.'' 

The  Scotchman  laughed. 

"Well,  seiior,"  he  said,  "do  you  know  that  I  often  wish 
that  they  might  catch  me  to  see  if  I  should  be  frightened. 
For  all  this  is  a  diversion  for  me.  In  Spain  I  smuggled 
tobacco:  here  I  smuggle  men." 

And  the  Scotchman  laughed  like  a  boy. 

"But  they  don't  pay  much,"  he  continued.  "You  gave 
me  more  for  the  boxes  I  brought  from  Montevideo  than 
others  have  given  me  for  saving  their  lives." 

"Well,  Mr.  Douglas,"  said  Daniel,  "I  need  your  services 
again." 

"At  your  orders,  Senor  Don  Daniel — my  boat,  four  men 
who  know  how  to  shoot  and  to  row,  and  I,  who  am  worth 
all  four  together!" 

"Thanks." 

"If  there  is  anyone  to  be  taken  over  I  have  discovered 
another  spot,  so  safe  that  not  even  the  devil  himself  would 
be  able  to  find  anyone  concealed  there." 

"No ;  there  is  no  one  to  be  taken  over.  But  first,  when 
do  you  intend  to  return  to  Montevideo  ?" 

"The  day  after  to-morrow,  if  I  complete  the  number."* 

"Well,  don't  go  until  you  hear  from  me." 

"Very  good." 


Sm  AMALIA 

"To-night  you  will  take  a  letter  for  me  to  the  blockading 
squadron." 

"Very  well." 

"You  will  bring  me  the  answer  by  ten  to-morrow 
morning." 

"And  before  that,  if  you  wish." 

"To-morrow  at  dusk  you  will  be  in  your  house  to  receive 
two  small  trunks  which  you  will  put  in  the  cellar  in 
which  the  two  boxes  of  arms  are.  Those  trunks  will  con- 
tain jewels  and  articles  of  ladies'  apparel,  and  you  yourself 
will  take  them  on  board  the  vessel  which  I  shall  designate 
to  you  when  you  have  brought  me  the  answer  to  my  letter." 

"Everything  shall  be  done  as  you  wish." 

"Do  you  know  the  coast  at  Los  Olivos?" 

"As  well  as  I  know  this,"  answered  the  smuggler,  open- 
ing his  large  hand  and  showing  the  palm  to  Daniel. 

"Could  a  boat  put  in  there  easily?" 

"That  would  depend  upon  the  state  of  the  river.  But 
there  is  a  little  creek  called  El  Sauce,  where  a  boat  could 
put  in,  even  v/hen  the  water  is  low,  and  lie  hidden  among 
the  rocks,  without  any  risk  whatever.  But  that  is  a  mile 
beyond  Los  Olivos." 

"And  at  Los  Olivos?" 

"If  the  river  is  high.     But  there  is  one  danger  there." 

"And  what  is  that?" 

"That  the  two  government  boats  patrol  the  coast  after 
ten  at  night." 

"Both  together?" 

"No.    Generally  they  go  separately." 

"What  crews  have  they?" 

"One  has  eight,  the  other  ten  men;  and  they  are  swift 
boats." 


THE  SMUGGLER  OF  MEN  327 

"Very  good,  Mr.  Douglas.  It  was  important  that  I 
should  know  all  this.    Let  us  recapitulate: 

"You  are  not  to  sail  until  you  hear  from  me. 

"You  are  to  go  to  the  squadron  to-night,  and  to  bring 
me  back  an  answer  to  the  letter  which  I  will  give  you 
presently,  between  eight  and  ten  o'clock  to-morrow  morning. 

"You  will  receive  two  trunks  to-morrow  evening,  which 
you  are  yourself  to  take  on  board  one  of  the  vessels  of 
the  squadron,  when  I  send  you  word  to  do  so. 

"The  price,  whatever  you  name." 

"That  is  the  best  of  all,"  answered  the  Scotchman,  rub- 
bing his  hands  together,  "that  is  the  best  of  all.  That  is 
the  way  a  man  should  speak.    Now  all  I  want  is  the  letter." 

"You  shall  have  it  at  once,"  returned  Daniel,  rising  and 
going  into  his  study;  while  the  smuggler  of  tobacco  in 
Spain  and  of  men  in  Buenos  Ayres  remained  calculating 
the  price  he  should  set  upon  his  services. 

And  he  was  not  the  only  smuggler  of  men.  There  were 
many  who  carried  on  this  business  between  1838  and  1842 
in  Buenos  Ayres.  And  although  it  is  very  possible  that 
they  may  have  been  actuated  chiefly  by  the  reward  which 
their  daring  brought  them,  it  Is  none  the  less  true  that 
hundreds  of  good  and  patriotic  citizens  owed  to  them  their 
lives,  who,  without  the  assistance  of  this  novel  species  of 
smuggler,  would  have  fallen  by  the  bullet  or  the  dagger 
of  Rosas. 

The  most  distinguished  of  the  refugees  from  Buenos 
Ayres  escaped  in  contrabandist  boats;  and  almost  all  the 
young  men  who  left  the  country  left  it  in  the  same  way 
as  did  Paz,  Agrelo,  Belgrano,  and  others,  that  is  to  say, 
under  the  protection  of  men  like  Mr.  Douglas.  And  one 
fact,  which  goes  far  to  explain  this  circumstance,  must 
be  borne  in  mind,  and  that  is,  that  when  denunciations  were 


328  AJVIALIA 

so  lavishly  rewarded,  and  when  not  a  day  passed  in  which 
the  poHce  of  Rosas  did  not  receive  such  denunciations  from 
natives  of  the  country,  among  all  the  foreigners — Italians, 
Englishmen  and  North  Americans — who  had  in  their  power 
the  secrets  and  the  persons  of  the  refugees,  and  knowing, 
as  they  did,  the  high  rank  of  many  of  them  which  would 
have  ensured  them  a  large  reward  from  Rosas,  there  was 
not  a  single  one  who  betrayed  the  secret  or  the  confidence 
reposed  in  him. 


CHAPTER  XXXVI 

THE  CHIEF  OF  THE  NIGHT-WATCHMEN 

Two  days  after  that  on  which  the  events  recorded  in 
our  last  chapter  took  place,  that  is  to  say,  on  the  5th  of 
September,  all  was  confusion  and  anarchy  in  Buenos  Ayres, 
in  its  ideas,  its  fears  and  its  hopes.  Silence  and  reserve 
prevailed  everywhere  among  the  enemies  of  the  dictator- 
ship; while  the  Federals  were  in  a  state  of  nervous  excite- 
ment that  kept  them  in  continual  movement — for  since 
eleven  in  the  morning  it  had  been  known  that  the  Liberating 
Army  was  within  a  league  of  La  Capilla  de  Merlo,  and 
consequently,  that  on  the  following  day  it  might  be  before 
Santos  Lugares,  or  in  the  city  itself. 

The  whole  of  the  block  on  which  the  house  of  Rosas 
was  situated  was  obstructed  by  the  horses  of  the  Federals, 
their  tails  adorned  with  red  ribbons,  their  heads  with 
feathers  which  waved  in  the  breeze. 

The  courtyard,  the  inner  yards,  the  office,  the  whole 
house,  with  the  exception  of  the  dictator's  rooms,  were 
like  a  veritable  ant  hill. 

The  whole  Federal  world  kept  passing  in  and  out  of  the 
house  all  day.  What  for?  Anything.  There  the  triumph 
or  the  defeat  of  Lavalle  would  be  known  sooner  than  any- 
where else. 

There  was,  however,  one  class  of  persons  who  entered 
the  house  of  Rosas  and  sought  the  presence  of  Manuela 

329 


330  AMALIA 

with  an  avowed  and  express  object;  these  were  the 
negresses. 

One  of  the  social  phenomena  most  worthy  of  study  in 
these  times  of  terror  was  that  presented  by  the  African 
race — African  in  its  origin,  but  notably  modified  by  the 
language,  the  climate,  and  the  habits  of  America.  Africans 
in  color;  populace  of  Buenos  Ayres  in  everything  else. 

At  the  very  beginning  of  our  revolution  the  great  law 
decreeing  the  freedom  of  all  born  after  its  enactment  was 
passed  in  protection  of  that  unfortunate  portion  of 
humanity  that  had  been  brought  to  the  vice-royalty  of 
Buenos  Ayres,  also,  by  the  cupidity  and  the  cruelty  of  the 
European. 

Buenos  Ayres  was  the  first  country  on  the  continent  of 
Columbus  which  covered  with  the  segis  of  liberty  the  brow 
of  the  African ;  for  where  the  waters  of  baptism  had  been 
she  did  not  wish  to  see  stamped  the  degradation  of  the 
human  species.  And  liberty  which  thus  regenerated  and 
which  struck  from  his  wrists  the  fetters  of  the  slave  had 
in  the  reign  of  terror  no  more  bitter  nor  more  open  enemy 
than  this  very  African  race. 

That  the  negroes  should  be  the  partisans  of  Rosas  was 
not  strange;  it  was  even  natural  that  they  should  endure 
all  manner  of  privations  and  make  all  manner  of  sacrifices 
for  his  sake;  since  he,  more  than  anyone  else,  flattered 
their  instincts  and  encouraged  in  them  sentiments  of  vanity 
hitherto  unknown  to  this  class,  which  occupied  from  its 
condition  and  from  its  very  nature  the  lowest  round  on 
the  social  ladder. 

To  promises  and  flatteries  Rosas  added  acts;  and  the 
members  of  his  family,  the  chief  men  of  his  party,  his 
daughter  herself,  mingled  as  fellow-Federals,  and  even 
danced  with  the  negroes. 


CHIEF  OF  THE  NIGHT-WATCHMEN        331 

It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at,  then,  that  this  part  of  the 
populace  of  Buenos  Ayres  should  manifest  enthusiasm, 
fanaticism,  even,  for  the  government  vv^hich  thus  favored  it. 

But  what  is  to  be  wondered  at,  what  is  matter  for  serious 
reflection,  and  what  ought,  later,  to  engage  the  attention 
of  the  regenerators  of  this  unhappy  land,  are  the  perverse 
instincts  which  revealed  themselves  in  this  class  with 
extraordinary  rapidity  and  frankness. 

The  negroes,  and  especially  the  women  of  that  race,  were 
the  principal  organs  of  information,  the  chief  spies  of 
Rosas. 

The  sentiment  of  gratitude  seemed  to  have  withered  in 
their  hearts,  without  taking  root  in  them. 

To  the  houses  in  w^hich  their  children  were  supported, 
where  they  themselves  had  received  their  wages  and  the 
lavish  gifts  of  a  class  who  err,  it  may  be  said,  on  the 
side  of  generosity,  indulgence,  and  familiarity  toward  their 
domestics,  they  brought  calumny,  misfortune  and  death. 

An  insignificant  letter,  a  gown  or  a  ribbon  with  a  thread 
of  blue  in  it  was  a  weapon  for  future  use;  and  a  cross 
look,  a  reprimand  of  the  master  or  mistress  of  the  house, 
or  of  one  of  their  children  was  cause  sufficient  to  use 
that  v/eapon.  The  police,  Dofia  Maria  Josef  a,  any  justice 
of  the  peace,  or  agent  or  leader  of  the  Mashorca  could  re- 
ceive a  denunciation  in  which  communications  with  Lavalle 
or  something  of  the  kind,  figured,  that  meant  ruin  and 
mourning  to  a  whole  family;  for  to  be  classified  as  a 
Unitarian  in  Buenos  Ayres  was  to  be  placed  beyond  the 
pale  of  the  lav/,  to  be  exposed  to  every  indignity,  every 
outrage,  every  crime. 

Since  the  departure  for  Santos  Lugares  of  the  Dictator 
and  with  him  of  the  negro  troops  who  had  occupied  the 
fortress,  the  negresses  too  had  begun  to  go  to  the  camp 


332  AMALIA 

on  their  own  account,  leaving  the  famiUes  with  whom  they 
had  been  at  service  to  depend  ahogether  upon  their  own 
resources. 

But  before  leaving  the  city  they  presented  themselves  in 
bands  at  Manuela's  or  Dofia  Maria  Josefa  Ezcurra's,  an- 
nouncing that  they  too  were  going  to  fight  for  the  Restorer 
of  the  Laws.  And  on  the  day  of  which  we  speak  a  large 
number  of  them  crowded  the  courtyards  and  halls  of  the 
house  of  Rosas,  noisily  taking  leave  of  Manuela  and  of 
everyone  present. 

It  was  a  day  of  jubilee  in  this  house,  so  famous  in  the 
annals  of  tyranny. 

Doiia  Maria  Josefa  had  arrived  at  eleven  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  now  at  eight  in  the  evening  she  was  still  there, 
waiting  for  some  messenger  from  Santos  Lugares  bringing 
word  whether  Lavalle  had  passed  Merlo  and  was  advancing 
on  the  city  or  whether  the  Federal  army  had  gone  to  meet 
him  and  had  utterly  annihilated  him  by  the  irresistible 
power  of  its  arms  and  by  the  brilhancy  of  its  genius. 

Suddenly  the  distant  report  of  a  cannon  thrilled  every 
heart. 

Manuela  changed  countenance.  It  was  not  fear  for  the 
political  cause,  it  was  fear  for  her  father's  life  that  op- 
pressed her  heart  with  a  weight  of  painful  emotions. 

For  a  long  time  all  listened  with  every  faculty  concen- 
trated in  the  sense  of  hearing,  but  in  vain. 

Manuela  sought  with  her  gaze  someone  from  whom  she 
might  learn  the  truth.  But  she  knew  so  well  those  who 
surrounded  her  that  she  did  not  dare  to  question  any 
of  them. 

Suddenly  a  movement  which  had  begun  in  the  courtyard 
reached  the  parlor,  and  all  eyes  were  turned  toward  the 
door  where  through  the  dense  clouds  of  tobacco  smoke  that 


CHIEF  OF  THE  NIGHT-WATCHMEN        333 

filled  the  room,  appeared  the  face  of  the  Chief  of  Police, 
while  his  voice  was  heard  saying,  in  answer  to  the  questions 
of  those  around  him: 

"It  is  nothing,  it  is  nothing;  it  is  only  the  cannon  fired 
at  eight  o'clock  by  the  French." 

Manuela  relieved  with  a  sigh  her  oppressed  heart  and 
impatiently  asked  Victorica,  who  had  approached  to  salute 
her: 

''Has  no  one  come?" 

"No  one,  senorita." 

*Tor  pity's  sake!  and  since  eleven  o'clock  I  have  not 
heard  a  word!" 

"But  it  is  probable  that  within  an  hour  we  shall  know 
everything." 

"Within  an  hour?" 

"Yes." 

"And  why  within  an  hour,  Victorica?" 

"Because  at  six  I  sent  a  police  officer  with  the  despatch 
of  the  day  to  the  Governor." 

"Very  well;  thank  you." 

"He  will  be  here  at  nine,  at  the  latest." 

"Heaven  grant  it !  And  do  you  think  they  are  now  very 
near  Santos  Lugares?" 

"It  is  not  likely.  Last  night  Lavalle  encamped  at  Bravo's 
farm.  At  half -past  ten  this  morning  they  were  within 
three  leagues  of  Merlo;  and  at  this  hour  they  will  be 
at  the  most  a  league  from  that  place;  that  is  to  say,  two 
leagues  distant  from  our  camp." 

"And  to-night?" 

"What  do  you  mean?" 

"How  if  they  do  not  march  to-night?'*  responded 
Manuela,  hanging  on  Victorica's  words. 

"Oh!  they  will  not  march  to-night,"  ansv/ered  the  latter; 


334  AMALIA 

"nor  perhaps  to-morrow  either;  Lavalle  has  only  a  small 
force,  sefiorita,  and  he  will  have  to  prepare  it  very  well." 

"And  how  large  is  Lavalle's  force?  Tell  me  the  truth, 
I  entreat  you,"  continued  Manuela,  who  spoke  to  the  Chief 
of  Police  almost  in  a  whisper. 

"The  truth?" 

"Yes,  yes;  the  truth." 

"The  thing  is  that  the  truth  is  not  to  be  had  for  the 
asking  in  that  way,  sefiora ;  in  these  times  it  is  very  difficult 
to  discover  it.  But,  according  to  what  appears  to  be  the 
most  reliable  information,  Lavalle  has  three  thousand  men," 

"Three  thousand  men!  and  they  told  me  he  had  hardly 
a  thousand !"  exclaimed  the  young  girl. 

"Did  I  not  tell  you  that  you  could  not  discover  the 
truth?" 

"Oh,  it  is  terrible !" 

"They  deceive  you  in  a  great  many  things." 

"I  know  it.     In  everything;  and  everyone  deceives  me." 

"Everyone?" 

"Except  you,  Victorica." 

"And  why  should  I  deceive  you  now?"  responded  the 
Chief  of  Police  with  a  brusque  shrug  that  seemed  to  say: 
We  are  staking  our  all ;  the  decisive  moment  has  come, 
and  there  is  no  one  to  deceive  now,  unless  it  be  ourselves. 

"And  papa,  what  force  has  he?    The  truth  also." 

"Oh,  that  is  easy  to  answer!  The  Governor  has  in 
Santos  Lugares  from  seven  to  eight  thousand  men." 

"And  here?" 

"Here?" 

"Yes,  here  in  the  city." 

"Everyone  and  no  one." 

"What  do  you  mean?" 

"That  according  to  the  news  that  reaches  us  from  the 


CHIEF  OF  THE  NIGHT-WATCHMEN        335 

camp  to-morrow  or  the  day  after,  we  shall  either  have 
a  world  of  soldiers  or  we  shall  find  ourselves  without  one." 

'*Ah !  yes,  yes ;  I  know  it,"  responded  Manuela  quickly, 
as  she  caught  the  meaning  of  what  had  at  first  seemed  a 
paradox  of  Victorica's.  She  knew  better  than  anyone  how 
little  faith  was  to  be  placed  in  the  words  of  the  vile  beings 
who  surrounded  her,  who  were  brave  only  when  they  held 
the  dagger  at  the  throat  of  the  defenseless  victim. 

"And  you  will  bring  me  the  news  to-night,"  she  con- 
tinued, "as  soon  as  you  have  received  it,  if  papa  does  not 
write  to  me?" 

"I  cannot  promise,  sefiorita,  for  I  am  going  now  to  the 
Boca,  and  I  have  left  orders  for  the  commissary  to  follow 
me  there." 

"To  the  Boca !  And  are  you  not  needed  more  in  the 
city?" 

"I  think,  sefiorita,  that  I  am  needed  nowhere,"  answered 
Victorica,  with  an  expression  on  his  countenance  that 
would  have  resembled  a  smile,  and  that  was  doubtless  in- 
tended for  one,  if  those  stern  and  rigid  muscles  that  lent 
themselves  only  to  the  expression  of  violent  and  profound 
passions  had  allowed  it. 

"What  do  you  mean  by  that,  Sefior  Don  Bernardo," 
asked  Manuela  with  some  seriousness,  for  the  young  girl's 
character  had  naturally  begun  to  be  affected  by  the  regal 
authority  exercised  by  her  father,  and  she  was  displeased 
at  seeing  symptoms  of  discontent  in  one  of  his  servants. 

"I  mean  to  say,"  answered  Victorica,  "and  it  is  better 
to  say  it  frankly,  that  formerly  I  received  my  orders 
directly  from  the  Governor,  and  for  some  time  past  I  have 
been  receiving  them  from  others,  in  his  Excellency's  name." 

"And  do  you  think  that  anyone  w^ould  dare  to  make  an 
unauthorized  use  of  my  father's  name?" 


336  AMALIA 

"What  I  think,  senorita,  is,  that  one  cannot  go  to  Santos 
Lugares  and  return  in  half  an  hour." 

'Well?" 

"And  this  afternoon,  for  example,  I  received  in  his 
Excellency's  name  an  order  to  watch  the  coast  at  San 
Isidro  to-night;  and  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour  later 
I  received  a  counter-order,  also  in  the  Restorer's  name,  to 
patrol  the  Boca." 

"Ah !" 

"And  you  see,  Manuelita,  that  one  of  the  two  orders 
is  not  from  the  Governor." 

"Certainly.     This  is  very  strange!" 

"For  me  there  have  never  been  either  good  or  bad  epochs 
in  the  service  of  General  Rosas,  nor  shall  there  ever  be. 
But  I  am  not  equally  willing  to  serve  other  people,  who 
are  acting  for  private  interests  and  not  for  the  cause." 

"Believe  me,  Victorica,  I  will  speak  to  papa  about  this 
at  the  first  opportunity." 

"That  lady  gives  me  more  to  do  than  the  Governor." 

"That  lady!     What  lady?" 

"Have  you  not  understood  that  I  am  referring  to  Dona 
Maria  Josef  a?" 

"Ah,  yes;"  and  yet  Manuela  had  understood  nothing  of 
tlie  kind;  for  she  had  in  truth  paid  little  attention  to  any- 
thing that  did  not  concern  her  father's  situation  at  the 
present  moment. 

"That  lady,"  continued  Victorica,  "has  a  particular  in- 
terest in  having  the  coast  watched  to  prevent  the  Unitarians 
from  going  away,  but  if  I  had  anything  to  say  in  the  matter, 
I  would  let  them  all  go." 

"And  so  would  I,"  said  Manuela,  quickly. 

"To-day  she  sent  me  an  order  to  have  a  house  watched 
for  the  second  time  in  which  I  know  very  well  that  even 


CHIEF  OF  THE  NIGHT-WATCHMEN        337 

the  walls  are  Unitarian.  But  what  do  we  gain  by  watching 
it  ?  They  neither  tell  me  what  I  am  to  watch  for  nor  what 
I  am  to  do  in  case  I  should  discover  such  or  such  a  thing." 

"I  see." 

"And  immediately  afterward  another  order  in  his  Ex- 
cellency's name  to  keep  a  watch  upon  the  movements  of 
a  hare-brained  boy." 

"What  an  idea !" 

"A  boy  who  goes  hither  and  thither,  like  a  mountebank; 
and  who  in  reality  is  known  to  have  only  Federal 
associations." 

"And  who  is  he,  Sefior  Victorica?" 

"Someone  who  often  comes  here." 

"Here  ?    And  you  have  received  an  order  to  watch  him  ?" 

"Yes,  sefiorita." 

"But  who  is  he?" 

"Bello !" 

"Bello !"  exclaimed  Manuela,  who  had  a  sincere  friend- 
ship for  the  young  man. 

"Yes,  in  the  name  of  the  Governor,"  continued  Victorica. 

"Oh,  that  cannot  be." 

"Nevertheless,  Dona  Maria  Josefa  herself  told  me  to 
do  so." 

"To  arrest  Bello,"  responded  Manuela;  "why,  I  repeat 
that  it  is  impossible.  Papa  can  have  given  no  such  order. 
Bello  is  an  excellent  young  man;  he  is  a  good  Federal, 
and  his  father  is  one  of  my  father's  oldest  friends." 

"I  was  not  told  to  arrest  him,  but  to  watch  him." 

"He  is  perhaps  one  of  the  few  sincere  men  around  us,'* 
added  Manuela. 

"He  does  not  seem  to  me  to  be  bad.  But  I  must  say 
that  he  has  either  a  great  many  enemies,  or  some  very 
powerful  ones." 


338  AMALIA 

"Senor  Victorica,  take  no  step  whatever  against  that 
gentleman,  except  by  papa's  express  orders." 

"If  you  desire  it " 

"I  desire  it,  unless  the  order  be  given  by  Corvalan." 

"Very  well." 

"I  know  something  about  this  matter.  Let  us  not  allow 
papa's  name  to  be  used  as  a  screen." 

"Very  well,  very  well,"  returned  Victorica,  delighted  to 
have  revenged  himself  on  Dona  Maria  Josef  a;  and,  as  if 
he  desired  to  reward  Manuela  for  the  satisfaction  she  had 
just  given  him,  he  promised  to  send  the  police  officer  to 
her  immediately  on  his  arrival  with  the  news  from  the 
camp. 

"But  I  request,'*  he  added,  "that  whether  the  news  he 
brings  be  good  or  bad,  you  will  not  tell  it  to  anyone  until 
I  report  it  to  you  myself,  as  is  my  duty." 

"I  give  you  my  prom.ise."  , 

"Good-night  then,  Manuelita." 

And  the  Chief  of  Police  made  his  way  again  through  the 
groups  that  crowded  the  parlor  and  the  courtyard  without 
anyone  venturing  to  stop  him  to  ask  him  the  news,  as  they 
always  did  with  one  another. 

The  seat  he  left  did  not  remain  vacant  for  an  instant, 
for  a  new  personage  of  the  epoch  came  to  congratulate  the 
young  girl  in  advance  on  the  approaching  Federal  triumph. 

And  while  Manuela  was  requesting  her  new  interlocutor 
to  go  ask  the  negresses  in  the  courtyard  to  make  less  noise 
and  to  tell  them  that  her  father  would  receive  them  with 
a  great  deal  of  pleasure  in  the  camp,  Dona  Maria  Josef  a 
was  shaking  hands  with  a  well-built  man  of  about  thirty- 
eight  or  forty  years  of  age,  with  fine  eyes,  a  dark  com- 
plexion and  a  heavy  black  mustache,  attired  in  a  red  cloth 
jacket,  black  trousers  with  a  scarlet  stripe,  and  a  waistcoat 


CHIEF  OF  THE  NIGHT-WATCHMEN        339 

and  cravat  of  the  same  color,  and  who  displayed  an 
enormous  badge  and  a  no  less  enormous  dagger  in  his  belt. 

"Well,  then,  early,"  Rosas'  sister-in-law  was  saying  to 
him. 

*'Yes,  sefiora,  before  seven  I  will  be  at  your  house  to 
report  to  you." 

"But  if  there  should  be  any  news  before  that  time  you 
will  send  at  once  to  let  me  know?'' 

"Yes,  senora." 

"I  will  remain  here  all  night,  or  at  least  until  w^e  hear 
from  Juan  Manuel.  But,  remember,  give  no  quarter.  You 
know  that  all  who  escape  will  go  to  Lavalle." 

"No  fear  of  that,"  answered  the  other,  with  a  slight 
smile  which  seemed  to  say:  I  do  not  require  that  recom- 
mendation. 

"Victorica  is  going  to  patrol  the  coast  from  the  fortress 
to  the  Boca,"  continued  Maria  Josefa. 

"I  know  it,  sefiora;  and  I  am  going  to  relieve  Cuitiiio, 
who  is  patrolling  from  the  Bateria  to  San  Isidro." 

"Good.  There  is  a  rat  that  escaped  once  before  from 
the  trap,  but  I  fancy  we  shall  catch  him  again  sooner  or 
later.  Go  at  once.  You  know  that  in  these  matters  I  act 
for  Juan  Manuel.  Go  take  your  leave  of  Manuelita,  and 
good-bye  until  to-morrow." 

And  the  personage  who  was  going  to  relieve  Cuitino 
took  his  leave  of  the  Dictator's  sister-in-law.  This  in- 
dividual was  Martin  Santa  Coloma,  one  of  the  chief  leaders 
of  the  Mashorca,  whose  hands  were  in  1840  imbrued  in 
the  blood  of  his  defenseless  compatriots. 


CHAPTER  XXXVII 


THE    LAUNCH 


The  night  was  foggy  but  mild;  the  river  calm;  a  fresh, 
but  gentle  breeze  curled  the  surface  of  the  water,  which 
now  at  high  tide  covered  the  rocks  on  the  coast  and  flowed 
noiselessly  into  the  little  inlets  bordering  it.  Occasionally 
a  star  could  be  seen  shining  through  the  gray  clouds  that 
veiled  the  firmament. 

At  nine  o'clock  on  this  evening  a  boat  had  put  off  from 
one  of  the  blockading  corvettes,  v/ith  a  young  French 
officer,  the  coxswain  and  eight  sailors  on  board. 

For  an  hour  the  boat  sped  along,  standing  far  out  from 
shore,  her  prow  west-by-north,  with  swelling  sail,  light  and 
graceful  as  a  vision  of  the  night  borne  on  the  wings  of 
the  breeze;  while  the  young  officer,  wrapped  in  his  cloak 
and  stretched  on  the  stern  bench,  with  that  indolence  which 
is  characteristic  of  the  sailor,  lowered  his  eyes  from  time 
to  time  to  look  at  a  small  chart  spread  out  at  his  feet,  on 
which  fell  the  light  from  a  lantern  by  which  he  examined 
from  time  to  time  a  small  mariner's  compass,  which  kept 
the  chart  in  place,  indicating  afterwards  by  a  gesture  of 
the  hand,  without  uttering  a  word,  the  direction  which  the 
coxswain,  who  was  steering,  was  to  give  the  boat.  And  by 
the  light  of  the  lantern  placed  at  the  bottom  of  the  boat 

340 


THE  LAUNCH  341 

could  be  distinguished  also  the  muskets  of  the  sailors,  laid 
athwart  it. 

At  the  end  of  about  an  hour  the  officer  looked  at  his 
watch  and  then  examined  again,  more  attentively  than 
before,  the  compass,  the  chart  and  the  course  taken  by  the 
boat,  after  which  he  gave  orders  to  lower  the  sail  and 
row  in  the  direction  which  he  indicated,  after  placing  the 
lantern  under  a  bench  in  the  stern.  The  upper  part  of 
the  oars  was  wrapped  in  canvas,  and  the  faint  noise  made 
by  the  blade  cutting  the  water  was  scarcely  perceptible. 

The  lights  of  the  city  were  now  completely  lost  to  view, 
and  on  the  left  appeared,  vaguely  distinguishable,  the  dark 
outlines  of  the  coast  rising  higher  and  higher  as  the  boat 
advanced  more  rapidly  at  the  impulse  of  the  oars  than  she 
had  done  before  under  sail. 

At  last  the  officer  gave  an  order  to  the  helmsman,  and 
the  boat  veered  three  points  around  toward  the  land,  and, 
at  another  order  from  the  coxswain,  the  sailors  began  to 
row  gently,  hardly  touching  the  surface  of  the  water  with 
the  tips  of  their  oars,  and  the  boat  decreased  its  speed  by 
more  than  one-half. 

The  officer  then  seated  himself  on  the  floor,  in  the  stern 
of  the  boat,  took  the  lantern  in  his  hand,  examined  atten- 
tively the  compass  and  the  indications  of  the  chart,  and 
after  a  few  moments  raised  his  arm,  without  removing 
his  eyes  from  the  compass  or  the  chart. 

At  this  action  the  sailors  gave  a  single  back  stroke  with 
their  oars  and  the  boat  stopped  suddenly,  remaining  as  if 
riveted  to  the  surface  of  the  water,  in  the  midst  of  the 
silence  and  darkness  of  the  night. 

They  were  now  within  a  hundred  yards  of  the  shore. 

The  officer  then  obtaining  from  two  of  the  sailors  their 
oilcloth  caps  placed  the  lantern  between  these  so  that  the 


842  AMALIA 

light  should  be  projected  in  a  straight  line,  leaving  the 
surrounding  space  in  darkness,  and  rising  to  his  feet,  lifted 
the  lantern  thus  protected,  to  a  level  with  his  face,  with 
the  light  shining  in  the  direction  of  the  shore. 

He  remained  thus  for  some  minutes,  while  the  eyes  of 
all  sought  on  the  land  the  answer  to  this  mysterious  signal. 
But  in  vain. 

The  young  man  shook  his  head,  and  putting  the  lantern 
back  in  its  former  place  gave  orders  to  row  on  again. 

Five  minutes  later  the  same  operation  was  repeated  with 
the  same  precautions.    But  this  time  also  in  vain. 

The  officer,  now  with  something  of  ill-humor,  again 
examined  the  course  taken  by  the  boat,  and  having  ascer- 
tained that  it  was  in  the  place  and  following  the  direction 
marked  on  the  chart,  he  gave  orders  to  put  a  little  further 
off  from  shore  so  as  to  get  out  of  the  shadow  cast  by  the 
neighboring  barranca. 

After  a  few  minutes'  progress  the  boat  passed  in  front 
of  a  small  headland,  and  about  two  hundred  yards  from 
its  last  station  the  signal  was  again  repeated  by  the  officer. 

The  floating  light  had  been  sending  its  mysterious  rays 
toward  the  land  for  less  than  a  minute  when  a  light  ap- 
peared on  the  neighboring  barranca  somewhat  brighter  than 
seemed  to  be  called  for  by  the  light  on  the  river,  which 
was  surrounded  by  so  many  precautions. 

"There  it  is,"  exclaimed  all  in  the  boat,  but  in  a  voice 
scarcely  audible  even  to  themselves. 

The  lantern  was  then  raised  and  lowered  twice  in  succes- 
sion by  the  officer,  and  the  light  on  the  land  was  imme- 
diately extinguished. 

It  was  now  eleven  o'clock. 


THE  LAUNCH  343 


n 


At  about  seven  o'clock  on  the  same  evening  a  carriage, 
driven  by  Fermin,  had  stopped  at  the  door  of  Madame 
Dupasquier's  house,  and  that  noble  lady,  looking  pale  and 
thin,  had  entered  it  shortly  afterward,  followed  by  her 
daughter. 

The  carriage  had  driven  off  at  once,  taking  the  direction 
of  the  fortress,  reaching  which  it  had  crossed  the  Plaza 
del  25  de  Mayo,  and  descending  to  the  Bajo  proceeded 
rapidly  northv/ard. 

As  they  were  passing  the  Recoleta  a  little  after  nightfall, 
two  horsemen  overtook  the  carriage  and  after  examining 
it  attentively  followed  it  at  the  distance  of  a  fev/  paces. 

From  time  to  time,  disregarding  the  night  air,  Madame 
Dupasquier  herself  directed  her  daughter  to  open  one  of 
the  carriage  windows  to  see  if  their  friends  were  follow- 
ing them.  And  each  time  the  young  girl  complied  with 
this  order,  not  a  very  disagreeable  one  for  her,  as  may 
be  imagined,  a  pair  of  watchful  and  loving  eyes  descried 
her  beautiful  head  and  in  an  instant  one  of  the  two  horse- 
men was  at  the  carriage  door,  and  a  brief  colloquy  of 
the  most  tender  character  took  place  between  the  young 
girl  and  the  young  man,  between  the  mother  and  her  son, 
for  the  young  man,  as  will  be  easily  understood,  was  no 
other  than  Daniel,  the  affianced  husband  of  Florencia. 

Returning  from  one  of  these  journeys  to  the  carriage 
door  Daniel,  riding  close  to  his  companion's  side,  in  whom 
the  reader  will  have  recognized  Eduardo,  and  putting  his 
hand  on  his  shoulder  said  to  him : 

"Do  you  wish  me  to  make  a  confession  which  perhaps 
another  man  would  be  ashamed  to  make  ?'' 


344  AMALIA 

"Perhaps  you  are  going  to  tell  me  that  you  are  in  love? 
Well !  I  too  am  in  love,  and  I  would  not  be  ashamed  to 
say  so." 

"No,  it  is  not  that." 

"What  is  it,  then?" 

"That  I  am  afraid." 

"Afraid." 

"Yes,  Eduardo,  afraid.  But  only  at  this  moment,  on 
this  solitary  journey,  in  view  of  the  dangerous  step  that 
we  are  about  to  take.  I,  who  risk  my  life  every  hour  of 
the  day;  who  from  a  child  have  loved  darkness  and  peril 
and  adventure,  who  learned  to  break  in  the  colt  for  the 
pleasure  of  running  a  danger,  who  have  traversed  the 
waters  of  our  river,  angrier  and  more  mighty  than  those 
of  the  ocean,  in  a  frail  boat,  without  any  other  aim  or 
object  than  the  pleasure  of  coming  face  to  face  with  nature 
in  her  wildest  and  most  savage  moods,  I  who  have  a  strong 
heart  and  a  skillful  arm,  would  tremble  like  a  child  if  at 
this  moment  any  accident  should  occur  that  would  place  us 
in  danger." 

"Well,  that  is  a  pretty  way  to  be  valiant !  When  do  you 
want  courage  for  if  not  for  the  time  of  danger?" 

"Yes,  but  danger  for  me ;  not  for  Florencia,  not  for 
her  mother.  It  is  not  fear  of  losing  my  life,  it  is  fear 
of  causing  her  to  shed  a  tear,  of  making  her  suffer  the 
horrible  tortures  that  she  would  suffer  if  we  should  sud- 
denly find  ourselves  in  the  midst  of  a  conflict.  It  is  fear 
that  she  should  be  left  alone,  her  father  absent,  her  mother 
almost  expiring,  and  without  my  protection,  in  this  tempest 
of  crime  which  is  gathering  above  our  heads.  Do  you 
understand  me  now?" 

"Yes,  and  the  worst  of  it  is  that  you  have  inoculated 
me  with  the  fear  which  had  not  occurred  to  me,  by  my 


THE  LAUNCH  345 

faith— the  fear  of  death,  not  for  its  own  sake,  but  because 
of  those  who  remain  behind.  But  we  are  near  our  destina- 
tion now,  Daniel;  in  ten  minutes  more  we  shall  be  there. 
My  poor  girl!  Your  Florencia  at  least  has  our  company; 
but  she,  she  has  been  alone  since  yesterday.  Ah !  to  think 
that  the  day  after  to-morrow,  to-morrow,  perhaps,  this 
horrible  life  that  we  are  leading  may  cease!  Fugitives, 
pariahs  in  our  own  country,  in  our  own  houses !  See  Daniel, 
I  think  that  when  I  smell  the  powder,  when  I  hear  the 
advance  guard  of  Lavalle  approaching,  and  we  twenty 
men,  as  we  are  now,  sally  out  with  our  muskets  to  meet 
them,  I  think,  I  say,  that  I  shall  begin  to  fire  in  the  air 
solely  for  the  pleasure  of  smelling  powder,  if  that  canaille 
of  Rosas  does  not  give  us  the  chance  to  fire  at  their  breasts. 
Do  you  think  that  they  will  be  here  the  day  after 
to-morrow  ?'^ 

''Yes,"  returned  Daniel,  "that  is  the  order  of  march. 
The  attack  may  begin  the  day  after  to-morrow,  and  it 
is  for  that  reason  that  I  have  so  strongly  urged  the  journey 
which  is  to  take  place  to-night.  I  know  myself.  With 
Florencia  here  I  should  not  be  worth  half  what  I  shall  be 
worth  alone  in  that  fateful  moment." 

"And  to  think  that  Amalia  should  refuse  to  accompany 
them!"  exclaimed  Eduardo. 

"Amalia  is  more  courageous  than  Florencia,  and  besides, 
her  nature  is  different.  No  human  power  could  make  her 
separate  her  fate  from  yours.  Here  you  are  and  here 
she  will  remain.    She  is  your  shadow." 

"No,  she  is  my  light,  she  is  the  star  of  my  life!"  an- 
swered Eduardo  with  an  accent  of  pride  that  seemed  to  say : 
That  is  what  I  desire  the  woman  I  love  to  be! 

"There  is  the  house,"  said  Daniel,  and  riding  a  little  in 
advance  he  gave  orders  to  Fermin  to  take  the  carriage 


346  ,AMALIA 

around  to  the  other  side  of  the  building  as  soon  as  the 
ladies  should  have  alighted. 

A  minute  later  he  was  at  the  door  of  the  solitary  house. 
Not  a  light  was  to  be  seen;  not  a  sound  was  to  be  heard 
but  the  murmur  of  the  wind  among  the  trees. 

No  sooner  had  the  carriage  and  the  horsemen  stopped 
at  the  door,  however,  than  this  was  opened,  and  the  eyes 
of  the  travelers,  habituated  to  the  darkness  for  the  past 
two  hours,  were  able  to  distinguish  clearly  the  forms  of 
Amalia  and  Luisa  standing  at  it,  while,  looking  through 
the  slats  of  one  of  the  windowbiinds  they  saw  old  Pedro, 
the  veteran  soldier  who  guarded  the  daughter  of  his  Colonel 
with  the  same  vigilance  with  which,  twenty  years  before, 
in  the  vanguard  of  the  armies  of  his  country,  he  had 
guarded  his  post  and  his  watchword. 

Madame  Dupasquier  alighted  from  the  carriage  greatly 
exhausted  by  the  fatigue  of  the  journey.  But  every 
preparation  had  been  made  by  the  thoughtful  and  hospitable 
Amalia,  and,  after  taking  a  glass  of  cordial  and  resting 
for  a  little  the  invalid  recovered  her  usual  strength.  Be- 
sides, the  thought  that  she  should  soon  cease  to  breathe  this 
air  that  was  stifling  her,  and  save  her  daughter,  was  the 
best  tonic  for  her  present  debility. 

In  accordance  with  Daniel's  instructions  only  Amalia's 
bedroom,  whose  one  window  looked  out  on  the  small  court- 
yard of  the  house,  had  been  lighted.  The  parlor  and  the 
dining-room,  whose  windows  faced  the  river  and  whose 
doors  faced  the  road,  were  completely  dark. 

Daniel  left  the  room  to  give  some  orders  to  Fermin, 
and  a  few  minutes  later  returned,  saying: 

"It  is  almost  ten.  We  must  go  to  the  dining-room  to 
await  there  the  signal  from  the  boat,  which  cannot  now 
delay.     But  Luisa  must  remain  here  to  bring  the  light  to 


THE  LAUNCH  347 

the  parlor  the  instant  I  ask  for  it.  Do  you  understand, 
Luisa?" 

"Yes,  yes,  seiior,"  answered  the  little  girl,  with  ready 
comprehension. 

''Come,  then,  mamma,"  said  Daniel,  taking  Madame 
Dupasquier's  hand.  *'You  too  will  help  us  to  watch  the 
river." 

"Yes,  let  us  go,"  answered  Florencia's  mother,  with  a 
smile  which  sat  ill  upon  her  wasted  features.  "And  here 
is  something  that  could  never  have  occurred  to  me." 

"What  is  that,  mamma?"  asked  Florencia,  quickly. 

"That  I  should  ever  have  to  become  a  Federal  even  for 
a  moment,  using  my  eyes  to  spy  in  the  dark.  And  above 
all,  it  could  never  have  occurred  to  me  that  I  should  one 
day  have  to  embark  upon  a  journey  in  such  a  way  as  this 
and  at  such  an  hour." 

"But  you  will  disembark  to  return  home  in  your  carriage 
within  a  week,  sefiora." 

"A  week!  And  will  it  take  as  long  as  that  to  expel 
that  rabble  from  Buenos  Ayres?" 

"No,  senora,"  answered  Eduardo;  "but  you  will  not 
return  from  Montevideo  until  we  all  go  there  to  escort 
you  back." 

"And  that  will  be  the  day  on  which  the  power  of  Rosas 
shall  be  ended,"  added  Daniel,  who  was  rewarded  by  a 
slight  pressure  of  Florencia's  hand,  that  had  remained  in 
his  since  they  had  left  Amalia's  room;  for  they  were  now 
in  the  dining-room,  which  was  dark,  save  for  the  light  that 
entered  through  the  windows  facing  the  river,  toward 
which  the  eyes  of  all  were  turned. 

As  the  minutes  passed  the  conversation  became  more 
and  more  difficult  to  sustain,  for  the  same  thought  occupied 
the  minds  of  all — the  hour  had  arrived  and  the  boat  did 


848  AMALIA 

not  appear.  Madame  Dupasquier  could  not  remain  here. 
The  battle  might  take  place  on  the  following  day;  and 
it  would  take  three  days  at  least  to  make  a  new  arrange- 
ment with  the  French  squadron. 

Suddenly  Amalia,  who  was  standing  beside  Eduardo, 
exclaimed,  pointing  to  the  river: 

"There  it  is !" 

Daniel  opened  the  window,  mentally  calculated  the 
distance  from  the  house  to  the  edge  of  the  water,  guided 
by  the  noise  of  the  waves,  and  assuring  himself  that  the 
light  was  on  the  river,  he  closed  the  window,  and  cried: 

"Luisa!" 

The  hearts  of  all  beat  with  violence. 

Luisa,  who  had  been  standing  with  her  hand  on  the 
candlestick  ever  since  she  had  received  the  order,  brought 
the  light  before  the  sound  of  her  name  had  died  away 
in  the  room. 

Daniel  placed  the  candle  in  front  of  the  window  and 
after  seeing  the  light  on  the  water  move  twice  up  and 
down,  as  had  been  agreed  upon,  he  closed  the  blinds  and 
said: 

"Come.*' 

Florencia  was  as  pale  as  marble  and  trembled  in  every 
limb;  Madame  Dupasquier  was  tranquil  and  serene. 

Outside  the  house  Daniel  made  them  stop  for  a  moment. 

"What  are  we  waiting  for?"  asked  Eduardo,  who  had 
given  his  arm  to  Florencia,  while  Madame  Dupasquier 
leaned  on  that  of  Daniel. 

"This,"  replied  Daniel,  pointing  to  a  figure  which  was 
seen  ascending  the  barranca. 

Daniel    dropped    Madame    Dupasquier's    arm   and   went 
forward. 
,     "Is  there  anyone  in  sight,  Fermin?" 


THE  LAUNCH  349 

''No  one,  scfior.** 

"What  is  the  distance?" 

**About  four  hundred  yards  from  side  to  side." 

"Is  the  boat  visible  from  the  shore?" 

"It  is  now,  senor;  for  it  has  just  put  in  among  the  rocks; 
the  river  is  very  high,  and  you  can  go  on  board  without 
getting  wet." 

"Very  well,  then.    You  remember  everything?" 

"Yes,  senor." 

"Take  my  horse  to  the  White  Rock,  which  is  about  three- 
quarters  of  a  league  from  here.  Keep  well  in  the  w^ater, 
so  as  to  remain  concealed  from  view  by  the  large  rock. 
I  will  land  there  vv^ithin  two  hours.  But  for  greater  security, 
mount  your  horse  at  once  and  go  there  to  wait  for  me." 

"V^ery  well,  senor." 

The  others  were  now  beginning  to  be  impatient,  and  a 
little  puzzled  at  Daniel's  delay.  But  he  soon  tranquilized 
them  and  they  all  began  to  descend  the  barranca. 

The  night  air  seemed  to  invigorate  the  invalid,  who 
walked  with  notable  serenity  leaning  on  the  arm  of  her 
future  son. 

In  front  of  them  v/alked  Florencia  with  Eduardo;  and 
Amalia,  holding  little  Luisa  by  the  hand,  headed  the  party. 

Twice  Eduardo  had  begged  her  to  take  his  other  arm, 
but  wishing  to  inspire  the  others  with  courage  she  had 
each  time  refused,  saying  she  was  the  chatelaine  of  the 
place  and  it  was  proper  that  she  should  lead  the  way. 

In  a  few  minutes  they  reached  the  shore,  where  the 
boat  had  put  in  and  was  being  held  in  place  by  two  robust 
sailors,  who  had  jumped  on  land  for  the  purpose. 

When  the  ladies  appeared  the  French  officer  sprang  on 
shore  with  all  the  gallantry  of  his  nation  to  assist  them 
on  board. 


S50  AlVIALIA 

There  was  something  indescribably  solemn  in  this  part- 
ing, amid  the  silence  and  darkness  of  the  night,  and  on 
these  desert  and  solitary  shores. 

Madame  Dupasquier  took  leave  of  Amalia,  saying  only: 

''Good-bye  for  a  little,  Amalia." ^ 

But  Florencia,  who  rarely  sought  relief  from  her  sor- 
rows in  tears,  at  last  felt  the  fountains  of  her  heart  un- 
sealed and  wept  freely  on  the  shoulder  of  her  friend. 

Amalia  wept  inwardly,  while  the  most  gloomy  and 
sinister  images  tortured  her  vivid  and  unhappy  imagination. 

''Come,''  said  Daniel  at  last,  and  taking  Florencia  by  the 
hand  he  separated  her  from  Luisa,  who  was  crying  also, 
and  lifting  her  by  the  waist,  he  placed  her  at  a  bound 
in  the  boat,  where  Madame  Dupasquier  was  already  seated 
beside  the  officer. 

Once  more  Florencia  exchanged  adieus,  with  Amalia 
and  Eduardo,  and  at  a  command  from  the  officer  the 
boat  put  off  from  shore,  then  tacked  south  and  ran  along 
the  coast  with  its  sail  unfurled  and  without  any  of  the 
precautions  with  which  it  had  approached  the  land  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  before. 

Amalia,  Eduardo  and  Luisa  followed  it  with  their  eyes 
until  it  disappeared  from  view  in  the  darkness. 

Eight  minutes  might  have  elapsed  when  a  sudden  flash 
of  light  and  the  detonation  of  a  volley  of  musketry  on  the 
shore,  from  the  direction  which  the  boat  had  taken,  thrilled 
like  an  electric  shock  the  hearts  of  all  there. 


CHAPTER  XXXVIII 

THE  FEDERAL   PATROL 

Eduardo's  head  was  still  turned  in  the  direction  from 
which  the  sound  of  the  firing  had  proceeded,  and  his  hands 
were  instinctively  seeking  the  pockets  in  which  he  carried 
his  pistols,  when  AmaUa's  voice  broke  the  silence  of  the 
melancholy  region  crying: 

"Come  up !  come  up !  for  Heaven's  sake,"  while  she 
caught  her  lover  by  the  arm  and  tried  to  drag  him  away 
with  all  the  force  of  her  feeble  hands.  Eduardo,  com- 
prehending everything  and  understanding  the  danger  which 
Amalia  incurred  by  remaining  a  moment  longer  in  this 
place,  clasped  her  tightly  around  the  waist,  saying: 

'*Yes,  quick,  there  is  not  a  moment  to  be  lost;"  while 
Luisa,  pulling  her  mistress  by  the  skirt,  endeavored  also 
to  hurry  her  up  the  ascent. 

They  had  been  walking  for  about  two  minutes  when 
a  second  report  caused  them  to  stop  mechanically  and 
turn  their  eyes  in  the  direction  whence  the  sound  had 
proceeded,  and  then  they  saw  distinctly,  although  at  a  con- 
siderable distance,  a  sudden  flash  of  light  on  the  river, 
which  was  followed  by  another  report. 

*'My  God !"  exclaimed  Amalia. 

"No ;  that  last  is  from  the  boat  which  is  answering  them," 
responded  Eduardo,  with  a  smile  of  mingled  rage  and 
satisfaction. 

"But  they  may  have  wounded  them,  Eduardo?" 

351 


S52  AMALIA 

''No,  no;  that  is  hardly  possible.  Come  up,  there  is 
another  danger  to  be  avoided." 

"Another?" 

"Come  up;  come  up." 

They  were  within  a  few  steps  of  the  house  when  they 
saw  Pedro  coming  toward  them,  ramming  a  bullet  into  his 
carbine,  while  he  held  his  saber  under  his  arm. 

"Ah,  here  you  are  at  last,"  he  said,  when  he  saw  them. 

"Is  that  you,  Pedro?" 

"Yes,  senora;  it  is  I.  But  this  is  no  hour  for  you  to  be 
walking  here."  This  was  perhaps  the  first  time  that  the 
good  old  man  had  ever  addressed  a  reproach  to  his  Colonel's 
daughter. 

"Did  you  hear,  Pedro?"  asked  Eduardo. 

"Yes,  seiior;  I  heard  everything.  But  this  is  no  hour 
for  the  senora " 

"Well,  well,  it  is  the  last  time,  Pedro,"  said  Amalia; 
who  understood  how  deep  an  interest  this  faithful  servant 
of  her  family  had  in  her  welfare. 

"I  want  to  ask  you,  Pedro,"  continued  Eduardo,  as  they 
entered  the  house,  "if  you  were  able  to  distinguish  with 
what  arms  the  first  and  second  shots  were  fired." 

"Bah!"  exclaimed  the  veteran  with  a  smile,  closing  the 
door. 

"Let  us  hear,  then." 

"The  first  and  second  were  with  a  carbine,  and  the  third 
with  a  musket." 

"That  is  my  opinion,  also." 

"Anyone  who  has  ears  could  tell  that,"  answered  Pedro, 
who  seemed  to  be  in  a  very  bad  humor  with  everyone, 
on  account  of  the  danger  to  which  his  mistress  had  just 
been  exposed;  and,  as  if  to  escape  further  questions,  he 
went  to  put  a  light  in  the  room  in  which  Eduardo  and 


THE  FEDERAL  PATROL  353 

Daniel  slept  when  they  remained  overnight  in  the  solitary 
house,  and  which  was  at  the  other  end  of  the  building  from 
that  in  which  Amalia's  rooms  were  situated. 

When  the  latter  entered  the  parlor  and  took  off  the  silk 
handkerchief  which  covered  her  head,  Eduardo  was  sur- 
prised by  the  extreme  pallor  of  her  face. 

The  young  woman  sat  down  in  a  chair  and  resting  her 
elbow  on  the  table  leaned  her  forehead  on  her  hand,  while 
Eduardo  went  into  the  unlighted  dining-room  and,  opening 
the  window,  listened  intently,  for  the  increasing  darkness 
of  the  night  rendered  it  impossible  for  him  to  see  anything. 

Not  a  sound  was  to  be  heard. 

When  he  returned  to  the  parlor  Amalia  was  still  sitting 
in  the  same  attitude. 

'There,  my  Amalia,  there,  it  is  all  over  now,  and  Daniel 
will  be  going  on  his  way  laughing,  at  this  moment,"  he 
said,  sitting  down  beside  her  and  smoothing  the  glossy 
tresses  of  his  beloved,  which  the  pressure  of  her  hand  had 
disordered. 

*'But  so  many  bullets !  It  is  impossible  that  they  should 
not  have  wounded  someone." 

"On  the  contrary,  what  is  impossible  is  that  a  bullet  from 
a  carbine  could  have  gone  within  fifty  yards  of  the  boat. 
They  saw  its  shadow  on  the  water,  and  fired  at  random." 

"But  the  whole  coast  must  be  watched,  then?  And 
Daniel  ?    How  will  Daniel  disembark  ?    My  God !" 

"He  will  disembark  at  daybreak  when  the  patrol  have 
retired." 

"And  has  Fermin  taken  his  horse  to  him?" 

"Yes,  seiiora,"  answered  Luisa,  w^ho  just  then  entered 
the  room  with  a  cup  of  tea  for  Amalia. 

At  this  moment  Eduardo  rose  from  his  seat  and  went 
again  to  the  dining-room  to  listen  once  more  at  the  window. 


S54  AlVIALIA 

For  some  time  past  one  thought — the  only  one  that  now 
troubled  him — had  been  tormenting  his  mind. 

He  had  been  leaning  for  about  three  minutes  against 
the  window  bars  when  he  fancied  that  he  heard  a  noise 
coming  from  the  direction  of  the  Bajo. 

A  moment  later  this  noise  was  clearly  audible  and  there 
could  not  be  a  doubt  that  it  was  made  by  the  tramp  of 
many  horses. 

Suddenly  the  sound  of  the  march  of  the  cavalcade  ceased, 
but  the  confused  noise  of  voices  conversing  at  the  foot  of 
the  barranca  could  be  distinguished.  Then  the  tramp  of 
the  horses  could  be  heard  again. 

'There  is  not  a  doubt  of  it,"  said  Eduardo  to  himself; 
''that  is  the  patrol  that  fired.  They  have  stopped  at  the 
foot  of  the  barranca  and  they  have  probably  been  talking 
about  this  house.  There  is  not  a  doubt  of  it;  they  are 
going  to  make  a  detour  and  come  here  by  the  upper  road. 
What  a  fatality!  What  a  fatality!"  and  the  young  man 
bit  his  lip  until  the  blood  came. 

When  he  returned  to  the  parlor  Amalia,  who  could 
interpret  so  well  every  change  in  her  lover's  countenance, 
comprehended  that  he  was  agitated  by  some  profound  emo- 
tion and  she  herself  opened  the  way  for  him  to  speak, 
saying : 

"Tell  me  what  it  is,  Eduardo ;  I  am  always  resigned, 
for  I  am  always  expecting  misfortune." 

"No;  misfortune,  no,"  responded  Eduardo,  as  if  ashamed 
that  his  beloved  should  have  perceived  in  his  face  even 
a  transitory  expression  of  fear. 

"And  what  is  it,  then?" 

"Perhaps — perhaps  nothing — a  foolish  thought  of  mine," 
said  the  young  man,  smiling. 

"No,  no;  something  is  the  matter  and  I  desire  to  know 
what  it  is." 


THE  FEDERAL  PATROL  355 

"Well,  then,  the  matter  is  this — that  a  patrol  has  just 
passed  by  at  the  foot  of  the  barranca  and  that  it  is  prob- 
ably the  same  patrol  which  fired  on  the  boat.    That  is  all." 

"All?  Well,  you  shall  see  that  I  have  understood  what 
you  have  not  wished  to  tell  me.    Luisa,  call  Pedro." 

"And  what  for?"  asked  Eduardo. 

"You  shall  hear  presently." 

The  veteran  appeared. 

"Pedro,"  said  Amalia,  "it  is  possible  that  an  attack  may 
be  made  upon  the  house  to-night;  they  may  attempt  to 
search  it,  or  something  of  the  kind;  make  all  the  doors 
secure  and  prepare  your  arms." 

Eduardo  was  astonished  at  the  valor  and  serenity  of  his 
beloved;  admiring  her  in  his  inmost  soul,  knowing  that 
this  was  not  constitutional  courage,  but  the  courage  of  love, 
exalted  to  the  height  of  self-sacrifice.  For  at  this  time 
armed  resistance,  any  resistance,  indeed,  to  a  command  of 
the  agents  of  Rosas  was  a  certain  sentence  of  death,  or 
of  misfortune  of  all  kinds,  and  Amalia  dared  to  brave  this, 
in  the  attempt  to  save  the  beloved  of  her  heart. 

"Everything  is  ready,  senora ;  I  have  twenty  charges,  and 
my  saber,"  answered  Pedro. 

"And  I  four  and  mine,"  said  Eduardo,  suddenly  rising 
to  his  feet;  but  still  more  suddenly,  as  if  he  had  been 
transformed  into  another  m.an,  he  sat  down  again  saying: 

"No ;  here  no  blood  shall  be  shed." 

"What  do  you  mean?" 

"I  mean,  Amalia,  that  if  the  worst  should  come  my  life 
is  not  worth  your  witnessing  a  scene  like  the  one  which 
we  have  imprudently  desired  to  prepare,  and  which  would 
result  only  in  the  ruin  of  everyone." 

"Pedro,  do  as  I  have  ordered  you,"  responded  Amalia. 

"Amalia!"  cried  Eduardo,  seizing  her  hand. 

"Eduardo,"  replied  the  young  woman,  "I  have  no  life 


356  AMALIA 

apart  from  the  life  of  him  I  love;  and  if  his  destiny  should 
hurry  him  on  to  disaster,  I  would  join  my  fate  to  his  so 
that  we  might  both  share  it  together." 

While  she  was  still  speaking  a  sound  of  horses  galloping 
toward  them  came  from  the  upper  road. 

Eduardo  rose  calmly,  went  out  to  the  courtyard,  where 
Pedro  was  walking  up  and  down,  and  crossing  it,  entered 
his  room.  Here,  without  haste,  he  took  off  his  poncho, 
which  he  had  not  before  removed,  took  his  double-barreled 
pistols  from  his  trousers'  pockets,  examined  the  priming 
and  then,  unsheathing  his  sword,  returned  to  the  courtyard 
and  placed  it  in  a  corner. 

At  this  moment  Amalia  also  appeared  in  the  courtyard, 
with  Luisa  clinging  to  her  skirts. 

Amalia  had  hardly  exchanged  a  few  words  with  Eduardo 
and  Pedro  when  the  sound  of  voices  outside  the  door  was 
heard  and  shortly  afterward  the  clanking  of  the  swords 
and  spurs  of  men  dismounting;  then  all  four  entered  the 
parlor,  the  door  of  which  opened  into  the  hall. 

A  moment  later  a  dozen  loud  knocks  sounded  in  quick 
succession  on  the  street  door. 

"Pedro  and  I  have  already  formed  our  plan,"  said 
Eduardo  to  Amalia;  "we  will  neither  open  the  door  nor 
answer.  If  they  get  tired  and  go  away  so  much  the  better. 
If  they  try  to  break  down  the  door,  they  will  find  it  a 
difficult  task,  for  it  is  stout  and  strongly  barred,  and  even 
if  they  should  succeed  in  doing  so,  they  will  be  already 
fatigued  when  we  receive  them." 

The  knocking  at  the  door  was  repeated,  and  was  soon 
followed  by  knocks  at  the  windows  of  the  parlor  and 
dining-room. 

"Break  it  down!"  cried  a  loud,  harsh  voice,  that  had 
already  made  itself  heard  several  times  above  the  voices 


THE  FEDERAL  PATROL  357 

of  those  who  accompanied  with  oaths  and  obscene  words 
the  blows  which  they  showered  in  vain  on  the  doors  and 
windows. 

"Shoot  away  the  lock!''  continued  the  same  voice,  all 
the  efforts  of  the  men  to  break  down  the  door  having 
proved  unavailing. 

Pedro  looked  round  with  a  smile  at  Eduardo,  who  was 
standing  with  Amalia,  holding  her  hand  clasped  in  his,  in 
the  middle  of  the  room. 

At  the  same  instant,  four  shots  were  fired  from  the 
outside,  and  the  lock  fell  at  the  feet  of  Pedro,  who  with 
admirable  coolness  walked  over  to  Amalia,  and  said  to  her : 

"Those  rascals  may  fire  through  the  windows;  it  is  not 
well  for  you  to  be  here." 

"True,"  said  Eduardo;  "go  into  Luisa's  room." 

"No,  I  will  stay  where  you  are." 

"Senorita,  if  you  don't  go  in,  I  will  take  you  in  my 
arms  and  carry  you  in,"  said  Pedro,  in  so  quiet  but  so 
determined  a  voice  that  Amalia,  although  she  was  sur- 
prised, did  not  venture  to  answer  him,  but  went  into  the 
bedroom  with  Luisa;  while  Pedro  and  Eduardo  placed 
themselves  between  the  two  windows  in  the  shelter  of 
the  wall. 

These  precautions  were  not  useless,  for  they  had  scarcely 
taken  this  position  when  the  windows  were  shattered  into 
a  thousand  fragments,  and  several  bullets  whizzed  through 
the  room. 

Suddenly  a  tremendous  blow,  an  almost  irresistible 
shock,  made  the  hinges  of  the  door  grate  and  its  frame- 
work creak;  it  seemed  as  if  the  door  was  about  to  fall 
in  entire  for  even  the  walls  trembled  as  if  they  had  been 
shaken  by  an  earthquake. 

"Ah,  I  know  now  what  it  is,  and  for  this  there  is  no 


358  AMALIA 

remedy !"  said  Pedro,  leaving  the  shelter  of  the  wall,  cock- 
ing his  carbine  and  going  toward  the  hall,  while  Eduardo, 
who  had  also  got  his  pistols  ready,  walked  beside  him 
with  flashing  eyes  and  parted  lips,  convulsively  grasping  his 
weapons. 

A  second  dull  but  powerful  blow  given  full  on  the  door 
shook  the  house  again,  and  a  shower  of  splinters  and  frag- 
ments of  mortar  fell  from  the  framework  of  the  door. 

*'It  will  not  stand  another,"  said  Pedro. 

"But  what  the  devil  are  they  battering  it  with?"  asked 
Eduardo,  trembling  with  rage,  and  wishing  that  the  door 
might  fall  in  at  once. 

"With  the  haunches  of  two  or  three  horses  simul- 
taneously," answered  Pedro;  "we  broke  down  the  door  of 
a  barrack  in  Peru  in  the  same  way." 

At  this  moment,  for  the  vv^hole  scene  had  passed  as 
quickly  as  thought,  Luisa,  who  was  clinging  to  Amalia's 
knees,  trying  to  prevent  her  from  leaving  the  room,  said 
to  her  mistress: 

"Senora,  the  Virgin  has  reminded  me  of  something — 
the  letter ;  I  know  where  it  is ;  with  that  we  shall  be  safe, 
seiiora." 

"What  letter,  Luisa?" 

"The  letter  that " 

"Ah,  yes;  Divine  Providence!  It  is  the  only  means  of 
saving  him.     Bring  it,  bring  it." 

Luisa  flew  to  a  table,  took  a  letter  from  a  little  box  which 
stood  upon  it,  and  returning  to  Amalia  handed  it  to  her. 

Amalia  then  ran  to  the  parlor  door  and  said  to  Eduardo 
and  Pedro,  who  were  in  the  hall  expecting  every  moment 
to  see  the  door  fall  in: 

"Don't  stir,  for  God's  sake;  listen  to  everything,  but  do 
not  speak  nor  come  into  the  parlor;"  and  without  waiting 


THE  FEDERAL  PATROL  359 

for  an  answer  she  closed  the  door,  and,  flying  to  one  of 
the  windows,  she  drew  the  bolt  and  opened  it. 

At  this  noise  ten  or  twelve  of  the  men  who  had  dis- 
mounted, leaving  the  door,  rushed  to  the  window  and  in- 
stinctively took  aim  with  their  carbines  at  the  grating. 

Amalia  did  not  retreat;  she  did  not  even  change  coun- 
tenance but  in  a  firm  and  dignified  voice  said  to  them: 

"Why  do  you  attack  a  woman's  house  in  this  way,  gentle- 
men?   Here  there  are  neither  men  nor  treasures." 

"Eh,  we  are  not  thieves !"  answered  one  of  the  men  who 
pushed  his  way  through  the  others  to  the  window. 

"Well,  if  this  is  a  military  patrol,  it  ought  not  to  try  to 
break  down  the  doors  of  this  house/' 

"And  to  whom  does  this  house  belong?"  asked  the  man 
who  had  approached  the  window,  parodying  the  emphasis 
which  Amalia  had  laid  on  the  italicized  words. 

"Read  this,  and  you  will  know.    Luisa,  bring  a  light." 

Amalia's  voice,  her  youth,  her  beauty,  and  the  mysterious 
confidence  and  menace  involved  in  her  last  words  together 
with  the  paper  which  she  handed  the  man  to  whom  she 
spoke,  at  this  epoch  in  which  everyone  feared  to  incur, 
through  a  mistake  or  through  any  trifle,  the  anger  of  Rosas, 
naturally  perplexed  these  men  who  had  never  suspected 
that  in  this  house,  abandoned  for  so  many  years,  there 
could  be  a  woman  like  the  one  they  saw  before  them. 

"But,  senora,  open  the  door,"  said  the  person  who  had 
taken  the  letter,  with  embarrassment,  and  who  was  no  other 
than  Martin  Santa  Coloma  at  the  head  of  his  band. 

"Read  first  and  I  will  open  afterwards  if  you  wish," 
responded  Amalia  in  more  assured  tones,  into  which  she 
had  infused  a  tinge  of  reproach;  while  Luisa,  feigning 
courage  like  her  mistress,  held  the  light,  protected  by  a 
glass  shade,  close  to  the  window  bars. 


360  AMALIA 

Santa  Coloma  unfolded  the  letter  without  taking  his  eyes 
off  this  woman  who  seen  by  the  light  of  the  candle,  and 
in  this  melancholy  and  deserted  spot,  exercised  a  sort  of 
spell  over  his  imagination.  Then  he  looked  at  the  signature 
of  the  letter  and  surprise  was  depicted  on  his  countenance, 
which  had  in  it  something  manly  and  interesting. 

"Have  the  goodness  to  read  aloud  so  that  all  may  hear," 
said  Amalia. 

"Sefiora,  I  am  the  leader  of  this  party,  and  it  will  be 
enough  for  me  to  read  it,"  he  answered,  acquainting  him- 
self with  the  contents  of  the  letter  which  it  is  proper  that 
the  reader  should  know  also,  and  which  were  as  follows: 

'**Senora  Dona  Amalia  Saenz  de  Olabarrieta. 
*'My  distinguished  compatriot: 

"I  have  learned  with  great  displeasure  that  certain  per- 
sons have  dared  to  annoy  you  in  your  solitude,  without 
cause  and  without  any  order  from  papa,  which  is  a  great 
abuse  and  one  that  he  would  censure  if  he  were  to  know 
of  it.  The  life  you  lead  can  excite  the  suspicions  of  none 
but  those  who  use  the  Governor's  name  for  their  own 
private  ends.  You  are  one  of  those  whom  I  esteem  most 
highly,  and  I  request  you  as  a  friend  to  send  me  word 
if  you  should  be  again  annoyed;  for  if  it  be  without  an 
order  from  papa,  as  I  do  not  doubt,  I  will  inform  him 
of  it  immediately,  so  that  the  use  of  his  name  may  not 
be  again  abused. 

"Believe  that  the  moment  in  which  I  can  be  useful  to 
you  will  be  a  happy  one  for 

"Your  obedient  servant  and  friend, 
"Manuela  Rosas." 

"August  23,  1840." 


THE  FEDERAL  PATROL  S61 

"Senora/'  said  Santa  Coloma,  taking  off  his  hat,  "I  had 
no  intention  of  doing  you  any  injury,  nor  did  I  know 
who  Hved  here.  I  supposed  that  some  of  the  persons  who 
embarked  from  this  coast  a  short  time  ago  might  have  left 
this  house,  for  I  have  just  had  a  fight  with  one  of  the 
enemy's  boats  not  far  from  here,  and  as  there  is  no  other 
house  but  this " 

"You  came  to  break  down  my  doors,  is  it  not  so?"  in- 
terrupted AmaHa,  to  complete  the  subjugation  of  Santa 
Coloma's  mind. 

"Sefiora,  as  no  one  opened  the  door  and  I  saw  a  light — 
but  excuse  me.  I  did  not  know  that  it  was  a  friend  of 
Dona  Manuelita's  who  lived  here." 

''Very  good;  will  you  come  in  now  and  search  the 
house?"  and  Amalia  made  a  movement  as  if  to  go  and 
open  the  door. 

"No,  senora,  no.  I  v/ill  only  ask  you  the  favor  of  allow- 
ing me  to  send  to-morrow  to  repair  the  door,  which  has 
perhaps  been  injured." 

"A  thousand  thanks,  senor.  To-morrow  I  intend  to  go 
to  my  country  house  and  this  is  a  matter  of  no  con- 
sequence." 

"I  will  go  in  person,"  resumed  Santa  Coloma,  "to  present 
my  excuses  to  Dona  Manuelita.  Believe  me,  this  was  un- 
intentional." 

"I  believe  everything  you  say,  and  there  is  no  need  for 
excuses,  for  no  one  shall  ever  learn  from  me  of  what 
has  taken  place;  you  made  a  mistake,  and  that  is  all  there 
is  to  be  said  about  it,"  responded  Amalia,  speaking  as 
sweetly  as  it  was  possible  for  her,  in  the  circumstances, 
to  do. 

"Gentlemen,  to  horse;  this  is  a  Federal  house,"  cried 
Santa  Coloma  to  his  followers.     "I  ask  your  pardon  once 


S6^  AMALIA 

more,"  he  continued,  turning  to  Amalia.  "Good-night, 
senora." 

"Will  you  not  rest  a  moment?" 

"No,  seiiora,  a  thousand  thanks;  it  is  you  who  require 
to  rest  after  the  disagreeable  moments  I  have  made  you 
spend." 

And  Santa  Coloma  retreated  from  the  window  without 
having  yet  put  on  his  hat. 

"Good-night,"  said  Amalia,  closing  the  window. 

A  moment  later  she  was  lying  in  a  swoon  upon  the  sofa. 


CHAPTER  XXXIX 

OF    FORTY   ONLY   TEN 

On  the  night  succeeding  that  of  the  attack  on  the  solitary 
house,  a  number  of  men,  who  had  been  arriving  one  by 
one  for  two  hours  previously,  were  assembled  in  a  large 
wholesale  warehouse  adjoining  a  handsome  two-story 
dwelling-house  which  commanded  a  view  of  almost  the 
whole  length  of  the  Calle  de  la  Universidad.* 

Each  one  on  arriving  had  knocked  in  a  particular  manner 
at  the  door  of  the  warehouse,  which  opened  immediately 
to  close  behind  him  the  instant  he  had  entered. 

At  the  further  end  of  the  warehouse  could  be  dis- 
tinguished the  dim  light  of  a  candle  that  stood  behind  a 
pile  of  wine  boxes,  around  which  the  men  gathered  as  they 
arrived. 

"Ten  o'clock,"  said  one  of  the  number,  holding  his  watch 
to  the  light. 

"So  much  the  better,"  responded  another,  rising  and 
taking  a  few  turns  up  and  down  the  room. 

"Yes,  true,"  added  a  third,  "if  anything  had  happened 
we  should  have  known  it  before  this." 

"I  think  the  entry  will  not  take  place  before  daybreak,"" 
observed  another,  rising  also;  for  they  had  all  been  sitting 
on  boxes  around  the  candle. 

"But  how  is  it  that  the  others  do  not  come?" 

♦Throughout  this  work,  the  names  which  the  streets  had  in  1840,  when 
the  events  related  in  our  story  took  place,  have  naturally  been  retained. 

363 


S64  AMALIA 

"But  we  do  not  know  how  many  of  us  there  are." 

"Did  not  Belgrano  tell  you?" 

"No." 

"Nor  did  Bello  tell  me  how  many  of  us  were  to  meet 
here." 

"And  what  does  the  number  signify?" 

"Of  course  it  signifies.  Do  you  suppose  that  with  those 
who  are  here  now  we  could  do  a  great  deal?"  responded 
a  man  of  military  bearing,  who  seemed  to  be  the  oldest 
of  the  party,  although  he  appeared  to  be  hardly  thirty-five, 

"But " 

A  knock  at  the  door  interrupted  the  answer,  holding  the 
attention  of  all  while  the  door  was  being  opened;  for  the 
knock  had  been  given  in  the  manner  agreed  upon. 

An  instant  later  Daniel  and  Eduardo  were  surrounded 
by  the  ten  men  who  were  present. 

The  two  young  men  wore  ponchos  and  had  large  Federal 
badges  in  their  hats.  But  the  faces  of  both,  and  especially 
Daniel's,  expressed  the  deepest  grief  and  disappointment. 

"The  face  of  each  of  you  is  a  bulletin  of  Rosas  in  which 
he  informs  us  of  the  defeat  of  Lavalle;"  said  one  of  the 
party. 

"No,"  answered  Daniel,  "no;  Lavalle  has  not  been  de- 
feated.    It  is  worse  than  that." 

"The  devil !  It  had  never  occurred  to  me  until  now  that 
there  could  be  worse  than  that." 

"And  yet  so  it  is,"  replied  Daniel. 

"But  explain  yourself,  in  the  name  of  all  the  saints," 
cried  another. 

"Nothing  is  easier,  my  friend,"  answered  Daniel;  and 
he  continued: 

"Lavalle  began  his  retreat  from  Merlo  at  six  o'clock 
this  evening.     And  in  my  opinion  that  means  the  defeat 


OF  FORTY  ONLY  TEN  365 

of  our  cause  for  many  years  to  come;  a  thing  which  is 
undoubtedly  of  more  importance  than  the  defeat  of  an 
army." 

A  long  silence  followed  this  announcement.  An  icy  chill 
froze  the  blood  in  the  hearts  of  all.  This  news  was  pre- 
cisely what  they  had  least  expected  to  hear. 

Eduardo  at  last  broke  the  silence. 

"However/'  he  said,  "Bello  has  not  told  all.  It  is  true 
that  Lavalle  has  retreated.  But  I  understand,  according 
to  Daniel's  own  information,  that  he  has  done  so  in  order 
to  give  a  blow  to  Lopez,  who  is  molesting  his  rear;  and 
to  return  afterward,  free  from  that  annoyance,  to  direct 
his  operations  against  Rosas." 

"Of  course,"  responded  another.  ''Now  I  understand. 
That  is  to  say  that  what  Bello  has  just  told  us  means 
nothing  more  than  the  delay  of  our  triumph  for  a  few 
days." 

"Undoubtedly,"  they  all  responded. 

"Think  as  you  choose,  gentlemen,"  replied  Daniel.  "For 
me  this  is  ended.  General  Lavalle's  enterprise,  to  be  suc- 
cessful, should  be  directed  rather  against  the  moral  than 
the  material  strength  of  Rosas.  The  moment  has  been  lost. 
A  reaction  will  take  place  in  the  minds  of  the  Federal 
party  and,  once  recovered  from  their  first  fright,  they  will 
be  ten  times  stronger  than  we.  Within  two  hours,  now, 
General  Lavalle  could  take  Buenos  Ayres.  To-morrow  he 
will  be  powerless.  Lopez  will  draw  him  out  of  the  province. 
And  meantime  Rosas  will  raise  another  army  at  his  rear." 

"But  how  do  we  know  that  he  has  retreated?"  asked 
one  of  the  party. 

"Do  you  believe  me  or  do  you  not?  If  you  believe  me 
then  refrain  from  asking  questions  whose  answer  would 
lead  to  nothing,"  answered  Daniel  drily.     "Let  it  suffice 


366  AMALIA 

you  to  know  that  to-day,  the  6th  of  September,  he  has 
begun  his  retreat,  after  having  advanced  as  far  as  Merlo; 
and  that  I  received  the  news  of  his  retreat  half  an 
hour  ago." 

"Well,  we  must  communicate  this  news  to  the  others." 

"To  what  others  ?"  asked  Eduardo. 

"Why !  is  there  not  in  the  neighborhood  another  meeting 
of  our  friends  ?" 

Daniel  smiled  bitterly  and  a  look  of  scorn  and  contempt 
crossed  his  expressive  countenance. 

"No,  gentlemen,"  he  answered;  "there  is  no  other  meet- 
ing than  the  present  one.  A  fortnight  ago  I  had  the 
promise  of  forty  men  for  this  event.  Afterwards  they 
were  reduced  to  thirty.  Yesterday  to  twenty.  I  count  you 
now  and  I  find  only  ten.  And  do  you  know  the  explanation 
of  this?  The  philosophy  of  the  dictatorship  of  Rosas.  The 
habits  of  disunion  among  our  cultured  class;  our  want  of 
association  everywhere  and  in  everything;  our  life  of  in- 
dividualism; our  apathy;  our  neglect;  our  selfishness;  our 
ignorance  regarding  the  value  of  the  collective  strength  of 
men — these  keep  Rosas  in  power,  and  will  enable  him 
to-morrow  to  cut  off  our  heads  one  by  one,  without  there 
being  four  men  to  join  hands  for  mutual  protection. 
Liberty  will  always  be  a  lie;  justice  a  lie;  human  dignity 
a  lie;  and  progress  and  civilization  lies  also,  where  men 
do  not  unite  in  purpose  and  in  will  to  become  all  sharers 
in  the  misfortunes  of  each,  to  rejoice  all  in  the  good  of 
each;  to  live  all,  in  a  word,  in  the  liberty  and  in  the 
rights  of  each.  But  where  there  are  not  twenty  men 
who  will  united  give  their  lives  and  their  fortunes  the 
day  on  which  the  liberties  and  the  destinies  of  their  country, 
their  own  liberties  and  their  own  destinies  are  at  stake, 
there  must  of  necessity  be  a  government  like  that  of  Rosas ; 


OF  FORTY  ONLY  TEN  367 

and  there  such  a  government  is  fitting  and  proper.  Thanks, 
my  friends,  honorable  exceptions  among  our  puny  genera- 
tion who  have  all  the  faults  v/ithout  any  of  the  virtues 
of  their  fathers.  Thanks,  once  more.  Now  we  shall  not 
have  a  country  to-morrow,  as  we  had  hoped.  But  we 
must  have  a  country  within  a  year,  within  two  years,  within 
ten — who  can  tell !  We  must  have  a  country,  if  only  for 
our  children.  And  for  this  we  must  begin  from  to-day 
with  another  programme  of  incessant  and  laborious  work 
and  of  slow  results,  but  work  which  will  bear  its  fruits 
in  time.  The  work  of  emigration.  The  work  of  the  propa- 
ganda everywhere  and  at  all  times,  without  cessation.  The 
work  of  the  sword  in  military  movements.  The  work  of 
speech  and  of  the  pen,  wherever  there  are  half  a  dozen 
men  to  listen  to  us  in  another  land;  for  some  one  of  our 
words  will  return  to  our  country,  in  the  air,  in  the  light, 
in  the  waves.  My  presence  is  necessary  in  Buenos  Ayres 
for  a  few  weeks  longer,  but  not  yours.  Up  to  this  I  have 
tried  to  be  the  dyke  of  emigration.  Now  circumstances 
have  changed  and  I  will  be  its  bridge.  Emigrate,  then. 
But  always  haunting  our  country's  doors ;  always  knocking 
at  them;  always  making  the  tyrant  feel  that  the  name  of 
liberty  still  has  an  echo  in  our  souls;  always  harassing 
him,  to  exhaust  his  strength,  his  resources,  even  his  terror. 
This  must  be  our  programme  for  many  years  to  come.  It 
is  a  war  of  blood,  of  mind,  of  life  on  which  we  are  about 
to  enter.  Let  him  who  survives  among  us  when  liberty 
has  been  won  teach  our  children  that  this  liberty  will  last 
for  a  very  short  time  if  the  nation  does  not  unite  as 
one  man  to  defend  it ;  that  they  will  have  neither  a  country 
nor  liberty,  nor  laws,  nor  religion,  nor  public  virtue  until 
the  spirit  of  association  shall  have  destroyed  the  cancer 
of  individualism  which  has  made  and  which  still  makes 


868  AMALIA 

the  misfortune  of  our  generation.  Let  us  now  embrace 
one  another  and  bid  one  another  good-bye  until  we  meet 
in  a  foreign  land/' 

Tears  coursed  down  the  cheeks  of  those  who  a  few 
moments  before  had  been  so  full  of  hopes  and  dreams  of 
liberty  and  triumph ;  and  a  moment  later  there  remained  on 
the  scene  of  so  bitter  a  disillusion  only  the  man  who  was 
entrusted  with  the  task  of  closing  the  doors  and  concealing 
the  arms. 


CHAPTER  XL 

ENGLISH  SANCTUARY 

A  FEW  days  after  the  meeting  which  we  have  just 
described  had  taken  place  a  carriage  drawn  by  two  spirited 
horses  drove  at  a  quick  pace  down  the  Calle  de  la  Recon- 
quista  in  the  direction  of  Barracas,  until  it  reached  the 
villa  of  Sir  John  Henry  Mandeville,  her  Britannic 
Majesty's  Minister,  at  the  door  of  which  it  stopped. 

The  coachman  opened  the  door  of  the  carriage  and  two 
men  alighted  from  it. 

One  of  them,  however,  with  his  foot  still  on  the  carriage- 
step  turned  round,  and  putting  his  head  in  at  the  door  said 
to  another  individual  who  had  not  moved  from  the  front 
seat  which  he  had  occupied  during  the  journey: 

'*Are  you  sure  that  you  remember  everything,  my  dear 
master?" 

"Yes,  Daniel,  but " 

"But  what?" 

"Would  it  not  be  better  to  inquire  if  the  minister  is  at 
home  before  I  set  out  on  this  solitary  and  lonely  journey 
through  these  lugubrious  streets,  at  this  hour  and  shut  up 
in  this  vehicle?" 

"That  does  not  matter — if  he  is  not  at  home  we  will 
wait  for  him,  and  when  you  return  you  will  find  us  here." 

"And  if  the  Prior  should  ask  me " 

"I  have  already  told  you  a  hundred  times — you  are  not 


370  AMALIA 

to  give  a  direct  answer  to  any  question.  Whether  they 
will  consent  or  not  to  what  you  ask,  cost  what  money  it 
may — that  is  all." 

"And  it  is  necessary  that  he  should  be  my  nephew?" 

"Or  your  son." 

"I,  sons,  Daniel!" 

"Or  your  cousin." 

"What  an  idea!" 

"Or  your  godson,  or  whatever  else  you  choose.  You 
can  be  back  within  an  hour." 

"Farewell,  Daniel.     Farewell." 

"Good-bye  for  a  little,  my  dear  friend,"  and  the  young 
man  shut  the  carriage  door  and  made  a  sign  to  the  coach- 
man, who  was  no  other  than  Fermin,  and  who  drove  off 
immediately. 

The  minister  was  at  home,  and  Daniel  and  his  companion, 
in  whom  the  reader  will  have  already  recognized  Eduardo, 
were  shown  into  the  drawing-room  where  the  candles  were 
just  being  lighted. 

Sir  John  Henry  Mandeville  did  not  keep  his  visitors 
waiting  long,  for  Buenos  Ayres  never  had  a  European 
Minister  more  affable  and  democratic  than  he  to  all  who 
came  to  his  house  with  the  insignia  of  the  epoch. 

The  minister  entered  the  room,  his  distinguished  coun- 
tenance, fresh  looking  still,  notv/ithstanding  his  years,  his 
coat  closely  buttoned,  his  linen  cuffs  falling  over  his  white 
and  well  cared- for  hands;  and  with  that  polished  ease  of 
manner  which  is  acquired  only  by  constant  contact  with 
the  best  society,  he  gave  his  hand  to  Daniel  and  exclaimed : 

"Ah,  what  a  pleasure!  You  cannot  imagine,  Senor 
Bello,  what  an  honor  and  what  a  happiness  it  is  for  me 
to  see  you  in  my  house." 

"Senor  Mandeville,"  answered  the  young  man,  shaking 
the  hand  which  the  diplomat  extended  to  him,  "the  honor 


ENGLISH  SANCTUARY  371 

and  happiness  I  have  in  being  here  are  infinitely  greater 
than  any  I  could  confer.  I  have  the  pleasure  of  presenting 
to  you  my  intimate  friend,  Senor  Belgrano." 

"Ah!  Senor  Belgrano.  I  have  long  desired  the  pleasure 
of  knowing  this  gentleman." 

"It  is  a  happiness  for  me,"  responded  Eduardo,  "that 
my  name  should  be  known  to  Senor  Mandeville." 

"What  would  you  have,  my  young  friend?  I  am  an  old 
man  and  I  enjoy  so  much  of  the  society  of  the  beautiful 
ladies  of  Buenos  Ay  res  that  I  have  learned  in  it  by  heart 
the  names  of  her  distinguished  young  men." 

"Every  word  of  yours  is  a  compliment,  Senor  Mande- 
ville," answered  Eduardo,  who,  sought  in  vain  to  join  in 
this  exquisite  fencing  with  words  which  is  one  of  the 
special  attributes  of  cultured  society  and  of  European 
diplomacy,  and  which  was  not  in  consonance  either  with 
the  young  man's  character  or  his  habits. 

"No,  no,  justice,  nothing  more,  Senor  Belgrano —  And 
tell  me,  have  you  seen  Manuelita  lately,  Senor  Bello?" 

"Not  to-day,  Senor  Mandeville." 

"Ah,  what  an  enchanting  creature!  I  never  weary  of 
talking  to  her  and  admiring  her.  Many  people  think  that 
my  visits  to  his  Excellency  have  a  political  object,  but  noth- 
ing could  be  further  from  the  truth.  I  go  to  his  house 
to  find  in  the  society  of  that  spirituelle  creature  something 
to  cheer  my  spirit,  fatigued  with  affairs.  In  London,  Misia 
Manuelita  would  make  a  furore." 

"And  her  father?"  asked  Eduardo,  upon  whom  a  look 
from  Daniel  fell  like  a  blow. 

"Her  father — General  Rosas — well,  you  see,  in  Lon- 
don  " 

"In  London  the  Governor  would  not  enjoy  good  health;" 
interposed  Daniel,  to  extricate  the  minister  from  the 
dilemma  in  which  his  friend  had  just  placed  him. 


872  AMALIA 

"Oh,  the  climate  of  London  is  detestable.  Have  you 
ever  been  in  Europe,  Senor  Belgrano  ?" 

*'No,  senor,  but  I  intend  to  spend  a  few  years  traveling 
there." 

''And  is  your  journey  a  sudden  one?'* 

"Not  so  sudden  as  Seiior  de  Mackau's  journey  here," 
returned  Daniel,  desiring  now  to  give  another  turn  to  this 
insubstantial  conversation. 

"What !    Has  Vice-Admiral  Mackau  arrived  already  ?" 

"Did  you  not  know  it,  Senor  Mandeville?" 

"No,  indeed." 

"Well,  he  has  arrived." 

"Here?" 

"No;  at  Montevideo.  He  arrived  the  day  before  yester- 
day, at  one  o'clock." 

"And  does  his  Excellency  know  it?'* 

"And  how  do  you  suppose  that  I  could  know  it  and 
his  Excellency  the  Governor  not  know  it  ?" 

"True;  true.  But  it  is  strange  that  the  Commodore 
should  have  said  nothing  to  me  about  it." 

"An  English  brig  was  in  sight  at  dusk." 

"Ah !" 

"The  wind  has  been  unfavorable,  Sefior  Mandeville," 
observed  Eduardo,  "and  it  was  only  at  five  this  afternoon 
that  the  news  was  brought  by  a  sailboat." 

"So  that  the  crisis  has  now  arrived,"  said  Mandeville, 
playing  with  his  nails,  as  was  his  habit  when  he  was  pre- 
occupied with  anything. 

"And  that  is  not  the  best  part  of  the  news." 

"Is  there  more?" 

"A  trifle,  Sefior  Mandeville!  You  know  that  up  to  this 
we  all  expected  the  French  envoy  to  arrive  in  a  hostile 
attitude,  did  we  not?" 


ENGLISH  SANCTUARY  373 

"Yes,  yes;  well?" 

"Well,  he  comes  with  the  soundest  and  most  pacific  in- 
tentions possible." 

"Ah,  what  happiness!" 

"For  us." 

"For  everyone,  Sefior  Bello." 

"Except  in  so  far  as  regards  the  Eastern  Question." 

"Yes,  there  may  be  something  in  that." 

"A  difficulty  the  less  for  France  is  an  obstacle  the  more 
to  the  peace  of  Europe  at  this  juncture.  Fortunately,  the 
relations  existing  at  present  between  England  and  France 
guarantee  us,  to  a  certain  extent,  the  result  of  the  Mackau 
mission." 

"The  British  Government  would  not  hesitate,"  observed 
the  minister,  "to  offer  its  good  offices  in  that  question." 

"That  is  not  what  I  meant  to  say,"  replied  Bello.  "I 
meant  to  say  that  if  England  had  any  interest  in  diverting 
for  a  moment  the  attention  of  France  from  the  question 
of  the  Plata,  the  present  is  a  brilliant  opportunity.  Sefior 
Belgrano  and  I  were  talking  of  that  just  now  as  we  were 
coming  here." 

"Nevertheless — if  Baron  de  Mackau's  instructions  are  to 
arrange  this  affair  at  all  costs,  I  confess  that  I  do  not  see 
how  England  could  well  interfere  with  that  arrangement, 
in  the  supposition,  which  is  an  entirely  imaginary  one,  that 
she  had  any  interest  in  doing  so." 

"Here,  no;  but  in  France  she  might  interfere  with  the 
ratification  of  the  treaty,  since  there  will  be  in  it  a  defect 
which  fortunately  will  not  be  perceived  in  France,  but 
which  would  ruin  everything  if  the  English  Ministry  should 
take  the  trouble  to  draw  the  attention  of  the  French  Op- 
position to  it.  Of  that  danger  precisely  Bello  and  I  were 
talking  as  we  came  here,"  said  Eduardo,  while  Sir  John 


S74  AMALIA 

Henry  Mandeville  turned  his  keen  eyes  from  one  to  the 
other  of  the  young  men,  whose  real  thoughts  he  constantly 
endeavored  to  grasp,  and  which  as  constantly  eluded  him. 

"And  in  what  would  that  defect  consist?"  he  asked,  in- 
genuously. 

''In  nothing  less  than  the  signature  of  the  Governor," 
answered  Daniel. 

''What  do  you  mean?" 

"That  the  Unitarians  who  are  in  Montevideo  have  pre- 
pared a  representation  to  Senor  Mackau,  which,  to  a  certain 
extent,  is  a  rather  strong  argument." 

"And  that  is,  Senor  Bello?" 

"That  the  signature  of  the  Governor  is  invalid,  my  dear 
Senor  Mandeville.  Imagine  that  they  reason  in  this  way 
— that  even  if  Senor  Mackau  brings  instructions  to  make 
a  treaty  at  any  cost,  there  is  no  power  with  whom  to 
treat  in  the  Argentine  Republic;  for  General  Rosas  has 
no  power  or  authority  whatsoever  to  conclude  treaties  in 
the  name  of  the  Argentine  people." 

"But  he  is  a  power  in  fact,"  replied  the  minister;  "and 
the  Plenipotentiary  is  not  to  question  his  legitimacy  but 
to  recognize  and  to  treat  with  him." 

"But  to  that  argument  the  Unitarians  ansv/er,"  continued 
Bello,  "that  if  the  admiral  had  come  to  treat  with  General 
Rosas,  as  Governor  of  Buenos  Ayres  simply,  and  with 
relation  to  this  province  alone,  he  might  then  treat  wnth 
him,  as  Admiral  Le  Blanc  and  Senor  Martigny  treated 
with  the  Government  of  Corrientes.  But  that,  coming  to 
treat  with  a  Government  representing  abroad  the  National 
Sovereignty,  no  such  Government  was  found  to  exist." 

"There  is  something  in  that,  indeed,"  answered  the 
minister,  with  an  abstracted  air. 

"The  Unitarians  maintain,"  continued  Daniel,  "that  the 


ENGLISH  SANCTUARY  375 

Argentine  Provinces  never  delegated  the  power  of  treating 
of  foreign  affairs,  making  treaties,  etc.,  to  the  Govern- 
ment of  Buenos  Ayres  in  perpetuity,  but  specially  to  the 
Governor,  at  each  legal  gubernatorial  election.  That 
General  Rosas,  appointed  Governor  for  five  years,  on 
March  7,  1835,  entered  into  office  on  April  13,  and  that 
his  term  expired  on  the  same  day  of  1840,  and  that  with 
it  expired  also  the  powers  delegated  to  him  by  the 
Provinces;  that,  re-elected  for  an  equal  period,  he  accepted 
office  only  for  six  months;  but  that  his  re-election  did  not 
produce  ipso  jitri  the  continuation  of  that  special  trust, 
and  therefore  that  it  was  indispensable  that  it  should  be 
renewed.  But  far  from  this  being  the  case,  it  was  with- 
drawn from  him  explicitly  by  those  who  had  conferred 
it  upon  him." 

"I  have  read  something  of  that  in  the  Montevidean  news- 
papers," replied  the  minister,  growing  more  and  more 
thoughtful. 

"That  is  to  say  that  you  have  read  in  the  newspapers 
the  official  documents." 

"Not  precisely  the  documents;  at  least  my  memory  is 
not  very  clear  in  the  matter." 

"Nor  mine  either;  but  I  believe  that  the  Chamber  of 
Representatives  of  Tucuman  issued,  on  April  7,  a  decree 
by  which  it  withdrew  the  authorization  that  it  had  con- 
ferred on  General  Rosas,  on  the  part  of  the  Province,  to 
maintain  and  preserve  relations  with  foreign  powers.  The 
legislature  of  Salta  issued  a  similar  decree  on  April  13. 
On  May  5,  the  Province  of  Rioja  revoked  by  a  decree  the 
authority  which  it  had  conferred  on  General  Rosas  to 
intervene  in  the  relations  with  foreign  powers.  The 
Province  of  Catamarca  issued  a  similar  decree  on  May  7. 
The   Province  of  Jujui   declared   itself   in  terms   equally 


876  AMALIA 

positive  on  April  i8.  And  as  for  the  Province  of  Cor- 
rientes,  no  other  evidence  is  needed  than  the  stand  it  has 
taken.  Thus,  then,  the  Unitarians  show  that  out  of  the 
fourteen  provinces  which  form  the  repubhc,  seven  have 
withdrawn  from  General  Rosas  the  power  to  treat  in  their 
name." 

*'And  Admiral  Mackau  is  in  possession  of  these  facts?" 

''How  is  it  possible  to  doubt  it?  And  if  his  instructions 
lead  him  to  the  extreme  of  treating  with  General  Rosas, 
notwithstanding  his  legal  incapacity,  it  is  easy  to  foresee 
that,  this  radical  defect  in  the  negotiation  being  brought 
to  the  knowledge  of  the  French  Opposition,  either  the  treaty 
would  be  rejected,  or  the  minister  would  find  himself  in 
a  very  embarrassing  position.  And  I  am  certain  that,  even 
if  the  frank  policy  of  the  British  Government  could  admit 
of  the  sacrifice  of  a  friendly  power,  like  the  Argentine 
Republic,  for  the  sake  of  embarrassing  the  action  of  the 
French  Government,  we  should  gain  little,  Sefior  Mande- 
ville,  by  the  treaty  which  Baron  de  IMackau  will  probably 
eventually  conclude.  But  I  am  sure  that  the  British  Gov- 
ernment will  not  sacrifice  the  friendship  of  the  Argentines, 
either  to  hostilize  the  French  Government  or  to  correspond 
to  the  reaction  in  favor  of  England  which  is  about  to  take 
place  in  the  Eastern  Republic." 

"What,  what !    Senor  Bello !" 

"I  mean  to  say  that  if  the  Eastern  Republic,  with  the 
large  number  of  Argentine  emigrants  who  are  in  it,  should 
be  abandoned  by  France  after  her  former  solemn  promises, 
it  is  very  probable  that,  a  reaction  unfavorable  to  French 
influence  taking  place  in  public  sentiment  in  those  coun- 
tries, as  a  logical  consequence  public  sympathy  would  turn 
toward  England,  which  labored  so  loyally  in  another  epoch 
for  Eastern  independence." 


ENGLISH  SANCTUARY  ST7 

*'Ah,  yes;  true.  The  independence  of  the  Eastern  Re- 
pubHc  is  due,  to  a  certain  extent,  to  the  good  offices  of 
England." 

''So  that,"  continued  Daniel,  "French  influence  being 
destroyed  in  these  countries,  should  the  independence  of 
the  Eastern  Republic  be  in  danger  the  action  of  England 
would  not  only  be  efficacious,  but  would  also  be  a  master 
stroke  to  win  for  herself  all  the  ground  lost  by  France 
in  countries  with  so  promising  a  future  as  those  of  the 
Plata." 

"Senor  Bello,  you  would  be  a  dangerous  ambassador 
for  General  Rosas,"  said  the  minister,  who  had  not  lost 
a  single  word  that  his  interlocutor  had  uttered. 

"I  think  that  my  friend  has  not  given  expression  to  his 
own  opinions,  nor  has  such  been  his  intention,"  observed 
Eduardo  with  a  smile. 

"And  so  true  is  it  that  I  have  not  spoken  in  my  own 
name  that  I  am  inclined  to  believe  that  I  have  talked  a 
great  deal  of  nonsense,  repeating  from  memory  what  they 
say  in  Montevideo  and  what  I  read  in  the  newspapers." 

''Senor  Bello,"  said  the  astute  Englishman,  "I  am  not  so 
much  obliged  to  you  now  for  your  visit  as  I  was  before; 
for  it  will  keep  me  from  my  sleep  for  a  couple  of  hours 
to-night,  while  I  make  some  private  memoranda  for  my 
own  use.  And  to  begin  to  drive  away  sleep  let  us  take  a 
little  wine."  And  going  over  to  the  sideboard  he  poured 
out  some  sherry  from  a  decanter,  and  the  three  men,  after 
taking  a  little  of  the  wine,  continued  the  conversation,  walk- 
ing up  and  down  the  room  with  the  respectful  familiarity 
of  well-bred  men  which  neither  goes  beyond  nor  falls  short 
of  the  proper  limits. 

*T  accept  the  wine,  but  not  the  memoranda,"  Daniel 
answered. 


378  AMALIA 

''Will  you  explain  to  me  what  you  mean  by  that,  my 
dear  Senor  Bello?" 

''Nothing  more  easy,  Senor  Mandeville —  In  these  times, 
only  the  foreign  ministers  can  make  memoranda.  No  one 
is  safe  from  an  enemy,  a  calumny,  an  accident.  Happy 
you,  Senor  Mandeville!  To  live  in  this  house  is  the  same 
as  to  be  in  England." 

"These  immunities  are  reciprocal.  The  Argentine  Lega- 
tion in  London  is  the  Argentine  Republic. '* 

"And  do  you  know  that  there  is  one  thing  that  surprises 
me,  Senor  Mandeville?"  said  Daniel,  stopping  short  and 
looking  at  the  minister  with  an  expression  of  well-feigned 
surprise. 

"What  is  that,  Senor  Bello  ?' 

"That  England  being  in  Buenos  Ayres,  and  there  being 
so  many  here  who  would  walk  a  thousand  leagues  to  get 
away  from  this  country  at  the  present  moment,  they  have 
not  walked  a  few  hundred  yards  and  come  to  this  house.'" 

"Ah  yes,  but " 

"I  beg  your  pardon;  I  wish  to  know  nothing.  If  there 
are  some  unfortunates  protected  by  the  English  flag  in 
this  house  it  is  a  duty  and  an  act  of  humanity  on  your 
part,  Senor  Mandeville,  to  have  received  them ;  and  I  would 
not  be  guilty  of  the  indiscretion  of  wishing  to  know  it." 

"There  is  no  one ;  I  give  you  my  word  of  honor,  there 
is  no  one  sheltered  in  my  house.  My  position  is  excep- 
tional. My  instructions  are  decisive  to  act  with  the  utmost 
circumspection.  With  the  best  will  in  the  world  I  could 
not  disobey  my  instructions." 

"Then  this  house  is  neither  more  nor  less  than  any  other 
house?"  said  Eduardo  in  a  tone  so  impertinent  that  Daniel 
hastily  interposed: 

"We  all  understand  your  position,  Senor  Mandeville.    In 


ENGLISH  SANCTUARY  379 

these  moments  of  popular  excitement  our  own  Government 
could  not  render  the  immunity  of  this  house  effective; 
and  you  wish  to  avoid  the  diplomatic  difficulties  which 
would  necessarily  arise  if  the  people  should  forget  the 
respect  due  to  the  Legation." 

"Exactly  so/'  answered  the  minister,  sincerely  rejoiced 
that  his  interlocutor  should  himself  have  extricated  him 
from  the  embarrassing  position  in  which  Eduardo's  abrupt 
inquiry  had  placed  him;  "exactly  so,  and  I  have  found 
myself  in  the  necessity,  the  harsh  necessity,  of  refusing 
the  shelter  of  my  house  to  several  persons  who  have 
solicited  it;  for  I  could  neither  answ^er  to  them  for  its 
safety,  nor  is  it  permitted  to  m.e  to  act  in  a  manner  that 
might  entail  further  difficulties  on  this  country,  for  whose 
people  I  have  the  sincerest  regard  and  with  which  my 
Government  is  solicitous  to  maintain  the  most  friendly 
relations." 

"I  think,  Daniel,  that  I  have  just  heard  the  carriage 
stop  at  the  door  and  that  it  is  time  for  us  now  to  take 
our  leave  of  Sefior  Mandeville,  who  must  wish  to  go  make 
his  usual  visits,"  said  Eduardo,  whose  ears  were  burning. 

"There  is  no  pleasure  comparable,  Senor  Belgrano,  to 
that  which  I  have  in  being  with  you." 

"My  friend  is  right,  however,  and  we  must  make  the 
sacrifice  of  leaving  Senor  Mandeville  and  his  excellent 
sherry,"  said  Daniel,  filling  two  glasses  with  wine,  one  of 
which  he  handed  to  the  minister,  whom  he  saluted  with 
the  most  polite  bmile  in  the  world  as  he  drank  with  him. 

A  moment  later  the  two  young  men  were  bowing  them- 
selves out  in  the  ante-chamber,  leaving  the  Englishman 
unable  to  decide  in  his  own  mind  what  they  had  come 
for,  to  which  party  they  really  belonged,  or  what  was  their 
opinion  of  him,  as  they  went  away. 


CHAPTER  XLI 


MR.    SLADE 


Although  Eduardo's  ill-humor  had  mastered  him  so 
completely  that  his  farewell  bow  to  Sir  John  Henry  Mande- 
ville  was  rather  an  impertinence  than  a  salutation,  his  ear 
had  not  deceived  him  when  he  announced  to  his  friend 
the  arrival  of  the  carriage. 

It  was  at  the  door,  in  fact,  and  in  it  was  our  Don 
Candido  Rodriguez,  who  drew  a  deep  breath  of  relief  at 
seeing  himself  once  more  in  the  company  of  Daniel  and 
Eduardo  when  the  carriage  drove  off  again,  taking  the 
same  road  as  that  by  which  it  had  come,  in  accordance 
with  the  orders  which  Daniel  had  given  his  faithful  servant 
on  entering  it. 

And  no  sooner  had  the  carriage  begun  to  jolt  over  the 
rough  paving  stones  of  the  Calle  de  la  Reconquista  than 
Daniel  said  to  Don  Candido: 

"To  which  of  the  two?" 

*'What  do  you  mean,  Daniel?" 

"To  Santo  Domingo  or  to  San  Francisco?" 

"I  must  first  inform  you  of  everything,  deliberately,  with 
every  detail,  with " 

"I  desire  to  know  everything;  but  we  must  begin  at  the 
end,  in  order  to  give  directions  to  the  driver." 

"You  positively  desire  it?" 

"Yes." 

"Well,  then — But  you  will  not  get  angry?" 

380 


MR.  SLADE  S81 

"Finish,  or  we  will  throw  you  out  of  the  carriage/'  said 
Eduardo,  with  a  look  which  terrified  Don  Candido. 

''What  tempers,!  what  tempers!  Well,  then,  hot-headed 
youths,  my  diplomatic  mission  has  failed!" 

"You  mean  to  say,"  returned  Daniel,  "that  they  will 
receive  him  neither  in  Santo  Domingo  nor  in  San 
Francisco  ?" 

"In  neither." 

Daniel  leaned  forward,  opened  the  front  window  and 
said  a  few  words  to  Fermin,  who  put  his  horses  to  a 
quick  trot,  driving  still  through  the  Calle  de  la  Recon- 
quista,  in  the  direction  of  the  fortress. 

"To  continue,"  resumed  Don  Candido;  "I  ordered  the 
carriage  to  stop  at  Santo  Domingo,  alighted,  entered  the 
monastery,  crossed  myself,  and  walked  to  the  end  of  the 
dark  and  solitary  cloister;  there  I  stopped  and  clapped 
my  hands,  and  a  lay  brother,  who  was  lighting  a  lantern, 
came  to  meet  me.  I  inquired  after  everybody's  health  and 
then  asked  for  the  reverend  father  whom  you  told  me  to 
ask  for.  The  brother  took  me  to  his  cell,  and,  after  the 
usual  salutations  and  compliments  had  passed  between  us, 
I  could  not  but  congratulate  him  on  the  tranquil,  happy 
and  holy  life  which  he  led  in  that  mansion  of  rest  and 
peace;  for  you  must  know  that  from  my  earliest  years 
I  have  had  a  taste,  an  inclination,  a  vocation  for  the 
cloister;  and  when  I  think  that  I  might  have  been  living 
tranquilly  to-day  under  the  sacred  roof  of  a  convent,  free 
from  political  agitations,  and  with  the  doors  closed  at 
dusk,  I  cannot  forgive  myself  for  my  want  of  prevision, 
my  negligence.     In  brief " 

"Yes,  my  dear  master ;  and  let  it  be  as  brief  as  possible." 

"I  was  about  to  say  then,  that  I  at  once  formulated  my 
first  propositions." 


382  AIMALIA 

"In  which  you  did  wrong.'* 

"Why,  was  not  that  what  I  went  there  for?" 

"Yes,  but  you  should  never  begin  with  what  you  wish 
to  obtain/' 

"Let  him  speak,"  interrupted  Eduardo,  settling  himself 
comfortably  in  a  corner  of  the  carriage  as  if  he  were 
preparing  to  go  to  sleep. 

"Proceed,"  said  Daniel. 

"I  will  proceed.  I  explained  to  him  In  clear  and  precise 
terms  the  position  of  a  nephew  of  mine  who,  although 
an  excellent  Federal,  was  persecuted  through  personal  spite, 
through  the  envy  and  jealousy  of  certain  bad  supporters 
of  the  cause,  who  did  not  respect,  as  they  should,  the 
exalted  fame  and  honor  of  the  patriarchal  Government  of 
our  Illustrious  Restorer  of  the  Laws,  and  his  respectable 
family.  I  narrated  with  eloquence  and  enthusiasm  the 
biography  of  all  the  members  of  the  illustrious  families  of 
his  Excellency  the  Governor  and  of  his  Excellency  the 
Deputy  Governor;  concluding  that  for  the  honor  of  these 
illustrious  branches  of  the  Federal  trunk  religion  and 
politics  alike  were  interested  in  preventing  an  outrage  to 
the  nephew  of  an  uncle  like  me,  who  had  given  notable 
proofs  of  valor  and  constancy  in  the  Federal  cause;  and 
that  in  order  not  to  distract  the  attention  of  the  Illustrious 
Governors  and  the  other  exalted  and  distinguished  per- 
sonages at  present  occupied  in  preserving  the  independence 
of  America,  I  asked  from  the  convent  of  Santo  Domingo 
sanctuary,  protection  and  shelter  for  my  innocent  nephew, 
offering  to  donate  to  it  for  charitable  purposes  a  large  sum 
of  money,  either  in  bank  notes  or  in  gold,  as  the  Reverend 
Fathers  should  determine.  Such,  in  brief,  was  the  dis- 
course with  which  I  opened  my  conference.    But,  contrary 


MR.  SLADE;  383 

to  all  my  expectations  and  preconceived  ideas  the  Reverend 
Father  said  to  me: 

"  'Sefior,  I  should  be  glad  to  be  of  service  to  you,  but  we 
cannot  mix  ourselves  up  with  political  affairs;  and  some- 
thing there  must  be  when  your  nephev/  is  persecuted.' 

"  'I  protest  once,  twice  and  three  times,'  I  answered, 
'against  whatever  may  be  said  against  my  innocent 
nephew.' 

"  'No  matter,'  he  replied.  'We  cannot  run  any  risk  with 
Seiior  Don  Juan  Manuel;  and  the  only  thing  we  can  do 
for  you  is  to  pray  that  God  Vv^ill  protect  your  innocent 
nephew,  if  he  be  indeed  innocent.' " 

'*Amen,"  said  Eduardo. 

"So  I  answered  too,"  continued  Don  Candido,  ''rising 
and  begging  a  thousand  pardons  for  having  taken  up  so 
much  of  his  Reverence's  time.  And  now  I  will  pass  on 
to  my  conference  in  San  Francisco." 

"No,  no,  no;  enough  of  friars,  for  Heaven's  sake;  and 
enough  of  everything,  and  enough  of  life,  for  this  is  not 
life,  but  a  hell!"  cried  Eduardo,  striking  his  forehead 
violently  with  the  palm  of  his  hand. 

"All  this,  my  dear  friend,"  said  Daniel,  "is  only  one 
act,  one  scene  in  the  drama  of  life;  of  this  Ufe  of  ours 
and  of  our  epoch,  which  is  a  drama  unique  on  earth.  But 
only  cowardly  hearts  give  way  to  despair  in  the  difficult 
crises  of  fate.  Remember  that  those  were  Amaha's  last 
words  to  you.  She  is  a  woman,  but  by  Heaven!  she  has 
more  courage  than  you." 

"Courage  to  die  is  what  is  easiest.  But  this  is  worse 
than  death,  for  it  is  humiliation.  Since  yesterday  morning 
I  have  been  refused  admittance  everywhere.  My  servants 
fly  from  me;  my  few  relations  disown  me,  other  lands, 
and  even  the  house  of  God,  close  their  doors  against  me; 


384  AMALIA 

and  that  is  a  thousand,  a  milHon  times  worse  than  the 
stab  of  a  dagger." 

"But  love  and  friendship  still  watch  over  you,  and  it  is 
not  everyone  who  can  count  upon  these  in  Buenos  Ayres. 
Three  days  ago  you  lost  your  house,  you  lost  everything 
you  had.  They  have  destroyed,  sacked,  confiscated  all  your 
possessions,  as  they  believe.  And  yet  I  have  been  able 
to  save  more  than  a  million  dollars  for  you.  And  with 
a  bride  as  beautiful  as  the  day,  a  friend  like  me,  and  a 
handsome  fortune,  you  have  no  reason  yet  to  complain 
so  greatly  of  fate." 

"But  I  go  about  from  door  to  door  like  a  beggar." 

"Let  us  stop  talking  nonsense,  Eduardo." 

"Where  are  we  going,  Daniel?  I  perceive  that  we  are 
approaching  the  Retiro." 

"Precisely,  my  dear  master." 

"But  are  you  in  your  senses?" 

"Yes,  senor." 

"Do  you  not  know  that  General  Rolon's  regiment  and 
a  part  of  the  troops  of  Maza  are  in  the  Retiro?" 

"I  know  it." 

"Well,  then,  do  you  wish  them  to  arrest  us?" 

"As  you  wish." 

"Daniel,  what  I  wish  is  that  we  should  not  sacrifice  our- 
selves so  soon.  Who  knows  what  happy  days  may  await 
us  in  the  future.  Let  us  turn  back,  my  son;  let  us  turn 
back.  Observe  that  we  are  now  approaching  the  barracks. 
Let  us  turn  back." 

Daniel  again  put  his  head  out  of  the  front  window,  spoke 
a  few  words  to  Fermin,  and  the  carriage  turned  to  the 
right,  and  in  two  minutes  more  stopped  at  the  door  of 
the  handsome  house  occupied  by  Mr.  Slade,  the  United 
States  Consul.     The  great  iron  gate  was  closed,  and  the 


MR.  SLADE  385 

building,  which  stood  back  about  a  hundred  paces  from 
the  railing,  was  entirely  dark,  with  the  exception  of  the 
rooms  on  the  ground  floor. 

Daniel  gave  a  loud  double  knock  with  the  knocker  at 
the  gate  and  waited  for  someone  to  appear,  but  in  vain; 
while  Don  Candido  kept  calling  to  him  at  every  moment, 
"Let  us  go,  Daniel;  let  us  go" — without  alighting  from 
the  carriage  or  taking  his  eyes  off  the  barracks,  which 
at  this  hour — near  ten  o'clock — was  buried  in  profound 
repose. 

Daniel  knocked  again,  this  time  more  loudly;  and  a  few 
minutes  later  a  man  appeared  coming  slowly  toward  the 
gate.  The  man  approached  him,  examined  him  coolly  and 
then  asked  in  English : 

*'What  do  you  want?" 

With  equal  conciseness  Daniel  answered: 

"Mr.  Slade." 

The  servant  took  a  key  from  his  pocket  and  opened  the 
gate  without  uttering  a  word. 

Don  Candido  immediately  alighted  and  placing  himself 
between  Daniel  and  Eduardo,  followed  the  footsteps  of  the 
servant  with  them. 

The  latter  introduced  them  into  a  small  ante-chamber 
and,  motioning  to  them  to  wait  went  into  an  adjoining 
room. 

Two  minutes  later  he  returned  and  employing  the  same 
language  of  signs  as  before,  invited  them  to  enter  the  apart- 
ment he  had  just  left. 

The  room  was  lighted  only  by  two  tallow  candles. 

Mr.  Slade  was  lying  on  a  horsehair  sofa,  in  his  shirt- 
sleeves, without  waistcoat,  cravat  or  boots;  and  standing 
on  a  chair  beside  the  sofa  were  a  decanter  of  cognac,  a 
carafe  of  water  and  a  glass. 


386  AMALIA 

Daniel  knew  the  United  States  Consul  by  sight  only,  but 
he  knew  his  country  very  well. 

Mr.  Slade  sat  up,  without  showing  the  slightest  em- 
barrassment, bade  his  visitors  good-evening,  motioned  to 
the  servant  to  place  chairs,  and  then  put  on  his  boots  and 
his  coat,  precisely  as  if  he  had  been  alone  in  his  bedroom. 

''Our  visit  will  not  be  long,  citizen  Slade,"  said  Daniel 
to  him  in  English. 

"You  are  Argentines?"  asked  the  consul,  a  man  about 
fifty  years  of  age,  above  the  medium  height,  with  an  open 
and  honest  countenance  and  of  an  ordinary  rather  than 
a  distinguished  type. 

"Yes,  sefior,  all  three  of  us,"  answered  Daniel. 

"Good.  I  am  very  fond  of  the  Argentines,"  and  he 
signed  to  the  servant  to  help  them  to  some  brandy. 

"I  believe  it,  senor;  and  I  have  come  to  give  you  an 
opportunity  of  manifesting  your  good-will  toward  us." 

"I  know  it." 

"You  know  what  we  have  come  for,  Sefior  Slade?" 

"Yes;  you  have  come  to  seek  an  asylum  in  the  Legation 
of  the  United  States,  have  you  not?" 

Daniel  was  perplexed  by  this  strange  frankness,  but 
comprehending  that  he  ought  to  follow  the  lead  given  him 
he  answered  quietly,  after  drinking  half  a  glass  of  brandy- 
and- water : 

"Yes,  that  is  what  we  have  come  for." 

"Well,  you  are  here  now." 

"But  Senor  Slade  does  not  yet  know  our  names,"  inter- 
posed Eduardo. 

"What  does  it  signify  to  me  what  your  names  are?  The 
flag  of  the  United  States  is  here  and  here  every  man,  no 
matter  how  he  may  be  called,  receives  protection,"  an- 
swered the  consul,  lying  down  again  very  unceremoniously 


MR.  SLADE  1S87 

on  the  sofa,  without  troubling  himself  to  move  when  Daniel 
rose  from  his  seat,  approached  him  and  taking  his  hand 
and  pressing  it  warmly,  said: 

*'You  are  the  most  perfect  type  of  the  freest  and  most 
democratic  nation  of  the  nineteenth  century." 

''And  the  strongest,"  added  Slade. 

'''Yes,  and  the  strongest,"  repeated  Eduardo,  "for  it  could 
not  be  otherwise  with  citizens  like  hers,"  and  the  young 
man  crossed  over  to  the  window  that  looked  out  upon  the 
river  to  conceal  the  emotion  which  he  could  no  longer 
control. 

"Well,  Mr.  Slade,"  continued  Daniel,  "we  have  not  all 
three  come  to  ask  an  asylum  from  you,  but  only  the 
gentleman  who  has  just  left  his  seat,  who  is  one  of  the 
most  distinguished  young  men  of  our  country  and  who  is 
at  present  pursued  by  the  police.  I  do  not  know  whether 
I  may  not  myself  have  to  seek  the  protection  of  this  house, 
later,  but  for  the  present  we  ask  it  only  for  Sefior  Belgrano, 
the  nephew  of  one  of  the  leaders  in  our  War  of  In- 
dependence." 

"Ah,  very  good.     This  is  the  United  States." 

"And  will  they  not  dare  to  enter  here?"  asked  Don 
Candido. 

"Who?"  and  as  he  asked  this  question  Mr.  Slade 
frowned,  looked  at  Don  Candido,  and  then  laughed.  "I 
am  a  great  friend  of  General  Rosas,"  he  continued.  "If 
he  asks  me  who  are  here  I  shall  tell  him.  But  if  he  orders 
them  to  be  taken  away  by  force,  I  have  those,"  and  he 
pointed  to  a  table  on  which  lay  a  rifle,  two  revolvers  and 
a  large  knife,  "and  up  there  is  the  flag  of  the  United 
States,"  and  he  raised  his  hand  and  pointed  to  the  ceiling. 

"And  me  to  help  you,"  said  Eduardo,  returning  from  the 
window. 


388  AMALIA 

"Good ;  thanks.    You  make  twenty." 

"You  have  twenty  men  in  this  house  ?" 

"Yes,  twenty  refugees." 

"Here?" 

"Yes;  in  the  other  rooms  on  this  floor  and  upstairs,  and 
I  have  been  spoken  to  for  more  than  a  hundred." 

"Ah !" 

"Let  them  all  come.  I  have  neither  beds  nor  the  means 
of  providing  for  so  many  people  but  here  are  the  house 
and  the  flag  of  the  United  States." 

"Good;  we  shall  want  for  nothing,  nothing.  Your  pro- 
tection will  be  sufficient  for  us,  noble,  frank,  and  loyal  com- 
patriot of  Washington,  for  I  too  will  remain  here,"  said 
Don  Candido,  holding  his  head  erect  and  striking  the  floor 
with  his  cane  with  so  serious  and  determined  an  air  that 
Daniel  and  Eduardo  looked  at  each  other  and  then  burst 
out  laughing,  which  obliged  Daniel  to  give  Mr.  Slade  in 
English  some  idea  of  his  ex-master's  character  and 
peculiarities.  And  this  slight  account  put  the  simple  Mr. 
Slade  into  so  good  a  humor  that  he  could  not  refrain  from 
pouring  out  some  brandy  and  drinking  with  Don  Candido, 
saying  to  him: 

"From  this  day  forth  you  are  under  the  protection  of 
the  United  States;  and  if  they  kill  you  I  will  burn  down 
Buenos  Ayres." 

"I  do  not  accept  that  hypothesis,  Sefior  Consul.  I  would 
prefer  that  Buenos  Ayres  should  be  burned  down  before 
I  had  been  killed,  rather  than  that  I  should  be  killed  first 
and  Buenos  Ayres  burned  down  after." 

"Come,"  said  Daniel,  "all  this  is  only  a  jest,  my  dear 
Don  Candido,  and  you  must  return  with  me." 

"No ;  I  shall  not  go  with  you,  nor  have  you  now  any 
rights  over  me,   since   I   am   in   foreign  territory.     Here 


MR.  SLADE  389 

I  will  pass  my  life  watching  over  the  precious  health  of 
this  worthy  man,  whom  I  already  love  devotedly." 

"No,  Senor  Don  Candido;  you  must  go  with  Daniel," 
said  Eduardo.  ''Remember  you  have  something  to  do  to- 
morrow." 

"It  is  useless  to  talk.  I  will  not  go.  And  from  this 
moment  all  relations  are  at  an  end  between  us." 

Daniel  rose,  and  calling  Don  Candido  aside,  held  a  brief 
but  animated  conversation  with  him,  in  the  course  of  which 
he  employed  every  argument  he  could  think  of  to  persuade 
the  ex-schoolmaster  to  return  with  him  to  the  carriage. 
But  all  his  arguments  v/ould  have  been  in  vain  had  he  not 
added  to  them  the  promise  of  leaving  Don  Candido  ab- 
solutely free  to  return  to  the  United  States,  as  soon  as  he 
should  have  brought  him  from  the  Deputy  Governor's  office 
some  information  which  he  desired  to  have. 

"Finally,"  said  Don  Candido,  "it  shall  be  an  express 
condition  that  I  am  to  sleep  to-night  at  your  house,  and 
to-morrow  night  also  if  I  do  not  return  to-morrow  to 
this  hospitable  and  secure  abode." 

"Agreed." 

"Senor  Consul,"  said  Don  Candido,  turning  to  Mr.  Slade, 
"I  cannot  have  to-night  the  honor,  the  pleasure,  the  satis- 
faction of  seeing  wave  above  my  head  the  glorious  North 
American  banner.  But  I  will  do  all  in  my  power  to  be 
here  to-morrow." 

"Very  good,"  answered  Slade.  "I  will  never  give  you 
up  alive." 

"How  diabolically  frank  this  man  is !"  said  Don  Candido, 
looking  at  Eduardo. 

"Come,  my  friend,"  said  Daniel. 

"Come,  Daniel." 


390  AMALIA 

Mr.  Slade  rose  lazily,  bade  Daniel  good-bye  in  English, 
and  shaking  hands  with  Don  Candido,  said  to  him : 

"If  we  do  not  see  each  other  again  here,  I  hope  we 
shall  meet  in  the  other  world." 

"Yes?  AVell,  then,  I  will  not  stir  from  here,  Senor 
Consul;"  and  Don  Candido  made  a  movement  as  if  to  sit 
down  again. 

"It  is  only  a  jest,  my  dear  master,"  said  Eduardo. 

"Come,  come;  it  is  already  late." 

"Yes,  but  it  is  a  jest  that " 

"Come.    Good-bye  until  to-morrow,  Eduardo." 

And  the  two  young  men  separated  with  an  eloquent 
embrace. 

The  same  servant  who  had  admitted  them  conducted 
them  to  the  street  door  and  as  he  opened  it  Don  Candido 
asked  him : 

"Is  this  door  always  closed?" 

"Yes,"  answered  the  servant. 

"And  would  it  not  be  better  to  leave  it  open  ?" 

"No." 

"What  diabolical  conciseness!  Look  at  me  well,  my 
friend.    Would  you  know  me  again?" 

"Yes." 

"Come,  Senor  Don  Candido,"  said  Daniel,  entering  the 
carriage. 

"I  am  going.  Good-night,  honest  servant  of  the  most 
illustrious  of  consuls," 

"Good-night,"  answered  the  servant,  closing  the  gate. 


CHAPTER  XLII 

HOW  DON   CANDIDO   WAS  A  RELATION   OF   CUITINO 

At  eight  o'clock  one  morning  toward  the  close  of  Sep- 
tember, Daniel's  former  master  was  drinking  deep  draughts 
of  hot  and  foaming  chocolate  from  an  enormous  china 
cup  while  his  pupil  was  occupied  in  reading,  folding  and 
sealing  papers,  both  men  bearing  traces  in  their  coun- 
tenances of  having  spent  the  night  in  vigil. 

"Daniel,  my  son,  would  it  not  be  well  for  us  to  lie  down 
to   rest   for  a  little,   a  brief  period,  a   few  moments?" 

"Not  yet,  senor;  later.  I  need  you  for  a  few  minutes 
longer," 

"But  this  must  be  the  last  time,  Daniel;  for  I  am  resolved 
upon  going  to-day  to  the  United  States.  Do  you  know 
that  it  is  five  days  since  I  gave  my  word  to  that  honorable 
and  worthy  consul  to  go  and  reside  in  his  territory?" 

"That  is  because  you  do  not  know  what  has  happened/' 
said  Daniel,  sealing  a  package  of  papers. 

"And  Vvliat  has  happened?" 

"Or  what  may  happen,  in  that  territory." 

"No,  no,  you  cannot  deceive  me.  Last  night,  while  you 
were  writing,  I  read  five  treatises  on  international  law 
and  the  chapters  in  two  diplom.atic  manuals  which  treat  of 
the  immunities  of  public  agents  and  the  houses  in  which 
they  reside.  And  do  you  know,  Daniel,  that  even  their 
carriages  are  inviolable,  from  which  I  deduce  that  I  may 

391 


392  AMALIA 

drive  about  in  the  worthy  consul's  carriage  without  fear, 

without  anxiety,  without  risk,  without '* 

"Let  me  have  the  Hst  of  dead  which  you  have  brought 

me,"  said  Daniel,   folding  the  paper  which  he  had  just 

finished  reading,  and  taking  up  another. 

*'Stay,  wait,  my  dear  and  esteemed  Daniel;  let  us  leave 

the  dead  in  peace." 

"No,  it  is  only  the  number  I  wish  to  see." 

"The  number  is  here,  Daniel — fifty-eight  in  twenty-two 

days." 

"That  is  it — fifty-eight  in  twenty-two  days." 

And  Daniel  folded  these  papers  as  he  had  folded  the 

others,  and  put  his  seal  upon  them. 

"Don't  forget  the  marches  of  the  army  in  Santa  Fe." 
"This  is  what  I  shall  do  with  them,  my  dear  master," 

and  Daniel  held  the  paper  to  the  candle  and  burned  it. 

Then  he  put  away  all  the  packages  in  a  secret  drawer  of 

his  desk. 

Presently  he  took  his  pen  and  wrote : 

'*'My  dear  Eduardo: 

"Last  night  I  remained  with  Amalia  from  dusk  until 
eleven  o'clock.  She  is  ill.  The  surprise  of  our  visit  the 
night  before  last,  and  her  anxiety  after  we  left  her,  have 
made  her  ill.  And  when  I  reflect  on  my  complacency 
toward  you  I  confess  that  I  reproach  myself. 

"The  Mashorca  continues  to  perpetrate  its  atrocities.  The 
prison,  the  barracks  and  the  camp  are  scenes  of  bloodshed 
which  increases  every  moment ;  and  I  have  reason  to  believe 
that  all  this  is  only  a  preparation  for  the  greater  crimes 
which  are  in  contemplation  for  October. 

"Everyone  is  talking  of  the  house  in  which  you  are,  and 
it  is  whispered  that  it  is  to  be  attacked.     I  do  not  believe 


HOW  DON  CANDIDO  WAS  A  RELATION 

this ;  but  it  is  necessary  to  be  prepared  for  everything.  The 
rumor  has  reached  AmaHa's  ears.  She  desired  earnestly 
that  the  marriage  should  take  place  on  the  first  of  October, 
since  you  are  resolved  not  to  leave  the  country  until  you 
are  united  to  her;  but  I  have  shown  her  that  Mr.  Douglas 
cannot  be  here  before  the  5th,  and  she  has  had  to  resign 
herself  to  wait. 

"Everything  is  ended,  my  dear  friend.  The  result  of  the 
conferences  with  Mackau  will  be  peace.  I  will  wait,  how- 
ever, until  the  last  moment,  and  then  I  will  take  your 
Amalia  to  you,  as  wq  have  agreed. 

*T  have  concluded  all  my  arrangements  and  I  am 
momently  expecting  my  dear  father. 

"I  shall  not  go  to  see  you  before  the  day  after  to-morrow. 

"This  letter  will  be  taken  to  you  by  our  dear  master, 
who  is  resolved  not  to  stir  again  from  that  house;  let  him 
remain  with  you. 

"Your 

"Daniel." 

"You  are  to  deliver  this  letter,  Sefior  Don  Candido," 
said  the  young  man,  sealing  the  letter  w^hich  the  reader 
has  just  read,  and  handing  it  to  his  master. 

"This  letter  has  no  direction,  Daniel?" 

"No  matter.     It  is  for  Eduardo;  take  good  care  of  it." 

"Shall  I  take  it  now?" 

"Take  it  whenever  you  please.  But  you  are  to  go  in  my 
carriage,  and  that  is  not  ready  yet." 

"Ah,  good!     A  good  idea!" 

Daniel  was  about  to  ring,  when  a  knock  was  heard  at 
the  street  door,  and  a  moment  afterward  a  servant  ap- 
peared, saying  in  a  disturbed  voice: 

"Commandant  Cuitifio." 


394  AMALIA 

Don  Candido  leaned  back  in  his  chair  and  closed  his 
eyes. 

"Show  him  in,"  said  Daniel.  ''Courage,  my  dear  master," 
he  continued,  ''this  is  nothing." 

"I  am  a  dead  man,  Daniel,"  answered  Don  Candido, 
without  opening  his  eyes. 

"Come  in,  Commandant,"  said  Daniel,  rising  and  going 
forward  to  receive  Cuitiiio,  while  Don  Candido,  hearing 
him  enter  the  room,  by  a  reaction  purely  mechanical  rose, 
opened  his  lips  in  a  convulsive  smile,  and  extended  both  his 
hands  to  take  the  hand  of  Cuitifio,  who  sat  down  at  a 
corner  of  the  table  at  which  master  and  pupil  had  just 
spent  so  many  hours  in  vigil. 

"When  did  you  receive  my  message.  Commandant?" 

"About  two  hours  ago,  Senor  Don  Daniel." 

"And  were  you  ill,  that  you  delayed  so  long  in  coming?" 

"No,  sefior,  I  was  on  duty." 

"Ah !  I  thought  so !  When  it  is  a  question  of  serving 
the  cause  I  wish  that  everyone  was  like  you.  And  that 
is  what  I  was  saying  yesterday  to  the  president;  for  if 
we  mean  to  go  creeping  along  like  the  chief  of  police,  it 
would  be  better  to  say  so  at  once  and  not  to  go  on  deceiving 
the  Restorer.  For  my  part,  Commandant,  I  don't  even 
know  now  what  it  is  to  sleep.  I  have  spent  the  whole 
night  with  this  man  folding  Gacetas  to  send  them  every- 
where; for  the  Restorer  wishes  that  the  enthusiasm  of  the 
Federals  should  be  known  everywhere.  And  a  little  while 
ago  this  gentleman"  (and  Daniel  pointed  to  Don  Candido, 
who  was  gradually  returning  to  himself  on  learning  that 
Cuitifio  had  come  at  a  summons  from  Daniel),  "called  my 
attention  to  something  which  you  must  have  already  no- 
ticed, Commandant." 

"What  is  that,  Don  Daniel?" 


HOW  DON  CANDIDO  WAS  A  RELATION    395 

'That  the  Gaceta  does  not  mention  a  word  of  you  or 
of  the  Federals  who  hourly  risk  their  lives  in  support  of 
the  cause." 

''Why,  they  do  not  even  publish  the  despatches!'* 
'To  whom  do  you  send  them,  Commandant?" 
"I  send  them  now  to  the  chief  of  police,  as  the  Restorer 
is  in  the  camp.     I  have  observed  what  you  say  only  too 
well,  Seiior  Don  Daniel;  and  this  man  is  quite  right." 

"Oh,  Senor  Commandant,"  said  Don  Candido,  "who 
would  not  be  surprised  at  the  silence  that  is  observed  re- 
garding a  man  of  your  antecedents?" 

"And  antecedents  that  are  of  no  recent  date,  either." 
"Of  course  they  are  not  of  recent  date!"  returned  Don 
Candido.  "Before  you  were  born  you  were  already  deserv- 
ing of  public  consideration,  for  Senor  de  Cuitino,  your 
honored  father,  belongs  to  a  branch  of  one  of  our  oldest 
families.  One  of  your  illustrious  uncles,  Senor  Com- 
mandant, married,  as  I  have  heard  my  elders  say,  one  of 
my  mother's  cousins;  for  which  reason  I  have  always  had 
for  you  the  sympathy  of  a  relation,  at  the  same  time  that 
we  are  bound  together  by  the  close  and  Federal  bonds 
of  our  common  cause." 

"Then  you  are  a  relation  of  mine?'*  asked  Cuitino. 
"A  relation,  and  a  near  one,"  answered  Don  Candido. 
"The   same  blood  flows   through   our  veins   and  we  owe 
each  other  affection,  esteem  and  mutual  protection,  for  the 
preservation  of  our  race." 

"Well,  if  I  can  be  in  any  way  useful  to  you " 

"So  then,  Commandant,"  interrupted  Daniel,  in  order 
that  Don  Candido  might  not  end  by  betraying  himself,  "so 
then,  they  do  not  even  publish  the  despatches  ?" 

"No,  seiior.     Just  now  I  sent  the  despatch  about  the 


396  AMALIA 

Unitarian  savage  Salces,  and  you'll  see  they  won't  pub- 
lish it." 

"Salces?" 

"Yes,  old  Salces.    We  have  just  put  him  to  death." 

Don  Candido  closed  his  eyes. 

"He  was  in  bed/'  continued  Cuitino,  "but  we  soon 
dragged  him  out  of  bed  and  killed  him  in  the  street.  The 
other  day  I  sent  another  despatch,  when  we  put  La-Madrid, 
of  Tucuman,  to  death.  Last  Saturday  we  killed  Zanudo 
and  seven  more  and  they  have  not  published  those  des- 
patches either.  As  far  as  I  am  concerned,  my  Cousin — 
what  is  your  name?" 

"Candido,"  answered  Daniel,  seeing  that  the  owner  of 
that  name  did  not  appear  to  be  in  possession  of  his  faculties. 

"Well,  my  Cousin  Candido,  as  I  was  saying,  is  quite 
right;  and  now  that  the  thing  is  going  to  begin  in  earnest, 
I  don't  intend  to  render  an  account  to  anybody." 

"What!  is  it  only  going  to  begin  now?"  asked  Don  Can- 
dido in  a  voice  that  seemed  to  proceed,  not  from  a  human 
breast,  but  from  a  sepulchre. 

"Yes.  The  best  of  the  business  is  going  to  begin  now. 
We  have  received  the  order  already." 

"Did  you  receive  it  direct.  Commandant?" 

"Yes,  Seiior  Don  Daniel.  I  communicate  now  with  no 
one  but  the  Restorer.  I  wish  to  have  no  more  dealings 
with  Dona  Maria  Josefa." 

"She  has  given  you  trouble  enough  already!" 

"Now  she  has  got  hold  of  Gaetan  and  Badia  and  Tron- 
coso;  and  she  still  keeps  harping  on  Barracas,  and  still 
talking  about  that  savage  who  escaped,  as  if  he  were  not 
already  with  Lavalle." 

"Why,  that  lady  hates  even  me!" 


HOW  DON  CANDIDO  WAS  A  RELATION    397 

"No,  she  has  said  nothing  to  me  about  you.  It  is  your 
cousin  she  disHkes." 

"I  will  tell  you  why  some  day,  Commandant." 

"To-day  she  was  shut  up  a  long  time  with  Troncoso  and 
a  young  negress  from  the  neighborhood  of  the  villa." 

"While  you,  Commandant,  occupy  yourself  in  rendering 
real  services  to  the  Federation  see  how  Dona  Maria  Josefa 
occupies  herself!" 

"Yes !  in  setting  spies  on  women." 

"Of  course.  The  negro  girl  must  be  a  spy.  What  will 
you  take,  Commandant?" 

"Nothing,  Don  Daniel,  I  have  just  breakfasted." 

"And  tell  me,  have  you  heard  nothing?" 

"What  about?" 

"Have  you  not  received  a  certain  order  yet?" 

"I  don't  know  what  order  you  refer  to." 

"About  the  Retiro?" 

"The  Retiro?" 

"Yes,  the  big  house,  you  know." 

"The  consul's?" 

"Yes." 

"Ah,  no.  An  order,  no;  but  we  know  what  we  are 
to  do." 

"So!"  and  Daniel  clenched  his  right  hand  and  raised 
it  to  a  level  with  Cuitiiio's  eyes;  while  Don  Candido's  hair 
stood  on  end  and  his  eyes  seemed  about  to  start  from  their 
sockets ;  for  he  thought  he  saw  before  him  in  Daniel  Judas 
himself. 

"I  know,"  answered  Cuitino. 

"But  there  is  no  order?" 

"None." 

"So  much  the  better,  Commandant." 

"How,  so  much  the  better  ?" 


398  AMALIA] 

"Yes,  I  know  what  I  am  saying;  and  it  was  to  say  it 
to  you  that  I  sent  for  you.  Your  cousin  is  to  be  trusted 
and  he  is  in  all  these  secrets." 

"But,  what  is  it  you  mean,  then?" 

"That  it  is  not  yet  expedient." 

"Ah!" 

"There  are  not  enough  yet.  By  the  time  the  thing  begins 
in  earnest  the  house  will  be  full.  So  that  about  the  8th 
or  the  9th — do  you  understand  ?" 

"Yes,  Don  Daniel,"  answered  Cuitifio,  whose  face  shone 
with  ferocious  joy  as  he  grasped  Daniel's  meaning. 

"Just  so!    All  of  them  together." 

Don  Candido  thought  that  he  must  have  lost  his  senses, 
for  he  could  not  believe  that  he  had  heard  aright. 

"Precisely !"  answered  Cuitino,  "that  would  be  the  best 
way.    But  we  have  no  order,  Don  Daniel." 

"Ah,  yes,  without  an  order,  God  forbid !  But  I  am  taking 
steps  in  the  matter." 

"And  Santa  Colom.a?" 

"Yes,  I  know." 

"He  has  a  strong  hankering  after  the  gringo." 

"I  know  it.  Commandant." 

"He  has  probably  had  some  dispute  or  other  with  him." 

"Just  so.  So  that  if  I  obtain  the  order,  you  know  what 
you  are  to  do." 

"With  all  my  men,  Don  Daniel." 

"And  if  Santa  Coloma  obtains  it  you  will  let  me  know?" 

"Of  course." 

"For  there  is  this.  It  will  be  necessary  for  me  to  be 
there  to  prevent  them,  in  the  ardor  of  their  Federal  en- 
thusiasm, from  touching  the  papers  of  the  consulate." 

"Ah !" 

"For  in  that  case  the  Restorer  would  be  angry  on  account 


HOW  DON  CANDIDO  WAS  A  RELATION   399 

of  the  difficulties  In  which  that  might  involve  the  country; 
you  understand?" 

"Yes,  Don  Daniel." 

*'But  even  if  Santa  Coloma  should  receive  the  order, 
I  am  of  opinion  that  we  ought  to  wait  until  there  are 
more;  until  the  8th  or  9th,  say." 

*'You  are  right,  that  would  be  better." 

"What  a  stroke,  Commandant!" 

"So  they  all  know  about  it?" 

"All ;  but  so  long  as  there  is  no  order,  we  will  not  venture 
to  do  anything." 

"You  are  right;  that  is  to  be  a  Federal.  But  do  you 
know  what  we  have  thought  of  doing?" 

"Tell  me.  Commandant." 

"We  are  going  to  set  a  watch  upon  the  house,  from 
to-night  on." 

"A  good  idea;  but  take  care  of  one  thing." 

"What  is  that?" 

"Take  care  not  to  stop  any  carriage.  Stop  only  those 
who  go  on  foot." 

"And  why  not  the  carriages?" 

"Because  they  might  be  the  consul's,  and  those  cannot 
be  touched." 

"And  why  not?" 

"Because  they  are  his,  and  everything  belonging  to  the 
consul  is  under  the  protection  of  the  Restorer." 

"Ah!" 

"So  that  to  touch  his  carriage  is  the  same  as  to  touch 
the  consul  himself." 

"I  did  not  know  that." 

"You  see!  It  Is  always  well  to  talk  about  things. 
Imagine  how  angry  the  Restorer  would  be  If  we  should 


400  AMALIAl 

commit  any  act  of  rashness  that  should  involve  him  in 
new  wars." 

"I  will  go  at  once  and  warn  my  comrades." 

"Yes,  lose  no  time;  these  matters  are  very  delicate." 

''Of  course." 

"So  then,  nothing  without  an  order." 

"Heaven  forbid,  Senor  Don  Daniel." 

"And  when  the  order  comes,  we  will  manage  to  delay 
until  there  are  more  assembled?" 

"Just  so." 

"We  understand  each  other,  then,  Commandant  ?" 

"Perfectly,  Don  Daniel.  And  I  will  go  now,  lest  they 
should  stop  some  carriage." 

"Yes,  see  them  all." 

"Well,  Don  Candido,  if  I  can  serve  you  in  any  way, 
remember  I  am  your  cousin." 

"Thanks,  my  dear  and  esteemed  cousin,"  answered  Don 
Candido,  more  dead  than  alive,  rising  mechanically,  and 
taking  the  hand  which  Cuitino  held  out  to  him. 

"Where  do  you  live?" 

"I  live— I  live  here." 

"Well,  I  will  come  to  see  you  sometime." 

"Thanks,  thanks." 

"Good-bye,  then." 

And  Cuitiiio  left  the  room  with  Daniel,  who,  as  he  was 
bidding  his  visitor  good-bye  in  the  parlor,  took  a  roll  of 
bank-notes  from  his  pocket,  and  said : 

"This  is  for  you.  Commandant ;  it  is  five  thousand  dollars 
which  my  father  has  sent  me  to  distribute  among  the  poor 
Federals,  and  I  will  ask  you  to  do  it  for  me." 

"Very  good,  Don  Daniel.  And  when  is  Senor  Don 
Antonio  coming  to  the  city?" 

"I  expect  him  from  one  moment  to  another." 


HOW  DON  CANDIDO  WAS  A  RELATION    401 

"Send  to  let  me  know  as  soon  as  he  arrives.** 
"1  will  do  so,  Commandant.     Good-bye,  and  serve  the 
cause." 

And  Daniel  returned  to  his  study,  took  a  sheet  of  paper 
without  noticing  Don  Candido,  who  was  looking  at  him 
fixedly  with  eyes  in  which  there  was  an  indescribable  mix- 
ture of  anger  and  stupefaction,  and  v/rote  these  lines: 

"Eduardo,  I  know  positively  that  the  rumors  regarding 
an  immediate  attack  on  Mr.  Slade's  house  are  unfounded; 
no  order  whatever  has  been  given  to  that  effect.  But  it 
is  necessary  for  the  consul  to  warn  those  who  have  solicited 
an  asylum  in  it  on  no  account  to  go  there  on  foot,  as  the 
house  is  going  to  be  watched;  they  may  go,  however,  in  a 
carriage  without  any  risk,  and  it  would  be  best  for  them 
to  go  in  Mr.  Slade's  own  carriage. 

"Adieu." 

"Now  my  dear  master,  instead  of  one  letter  you  will 
have  two  to  take,"  said  Daniel,  holding  out  the  note  to  Don 
Candido.    But  the  latter  answered: 

"No.  Or  perhaps  you  wish  to  involve  me  too  in  your 
base  treachery  ?" 

"What  is  the  matter  now!  Have  you  lost  your  senses, 
my  respectable  cousin  of  Cuitiilo?" 

"The  cousin  of  Satan,  that  cutthroat  must  be !" 
"But  you  told  him  you  were  his  cousin." 
"How  do  I  know  what  I  am  saying?  I  think  I  must 
have  lost  my  senses,  in  this  labyrinth  in  which  I  find  myself, 
surrounded  on  all  sides  by  crime,  by  treachery,  by  deceit. 
Tell  me  who  you  are.  Define  your  position.  How  is  it 
that  you  speak  in  my  presence  of  attacking  the  house  in 
which  I  am  going  to  seek  an  asylum,  in  which  that  young 
man  is  sheltered  whom  you  call  your  friend,  in  which " 


402  AMALIA 

'Tor  the  love  of  Heaven,  Senor  Don  Candido!  I  must 
explain  everything  to  you,  then,  it  seems!" 

"But  what  explanation  can  there  be  of  what  I  myself 
have  heard." 

'This,"  said  Daniel,  opening  the  last  of  the  two  notes 
which  he  had  written  and  which  he  had  not  sealed,  and 
giving  it  to  Don  Candido,  in  whose  face  and  eyes  there 
was  an  expression  that  was  in  truth,  appalling. 

"Ah!"  he  exclaimed,  after  reading  it  over  twice. 

"This,  Senor  Don  Candido,  is  to  build  upon  the  founda- 
tion laid  by  others ;  it  is  to  catch  men  in  their  own  traps ; 
it  is  to  destroy  them  by  their  own  machinations;  it  is  to 
make  our  enemies  serve  us ;  it  is,  in  short,  the  whole  science 
of  Richelieu,  applied  to  little  things,  for  there  is  neither 
a  Rochelle  nor  an  England  here,  and  even  if  there  were, 
it  would  still  apply.  Now  go  and  repose  tranquilly  in 
North  American  territory." 

"Come  to  my  arms,  admirable  youth,  who  have  just  made 
me  pass  the  most  cruel  moment  of  my  life!" 

"Embrace  me,  and  then  depart  in  my  carriage,  illustrious 
cousin  of  Cuitino." 

"Do  not  insult  me,  Daniel." 

"Very  well ;  good-bye  until  to-morrow — no,  until  the  day 
after  to-morrow.    The  carriage  is  at  the  door." 

"Good-bye,  Daniel." 

And  poor  Don  Candido  again  embraced  his  pupil  who, 
half  an  hour  later  was  courting  sleep,  while  Don  Candido 
walked  about  with  head  erect  in  the  territory  of  the  United 
States,  as  he  said,  and  while  Eduardo  read  his  friend's 
letters. 


CHAPTER  XLIII 

THE  WARNING  OF  THE  SOUL 

On  the  evening  of  the  5th  of  October  a  carriage  might 
have  been  seen  to  stop  at  the  door  of  a  modest  looking 
house  in  the  Calle  de  Corrientes,  from  which  issued  at 
the  same  moment  a  venerable  priest,  who  entered  the 
vehicle  saluting,  as  he  did  so,  two  men  who  were  in  it. 
The  carriage  drove  off  again  at  once,  entered  the  Calle 
de  Suipacha  and  turned  south.  Crossing  the  Calle  de  la 
Federation,  the  driver  was  obliged  to  pull  up  his  horses 
to  avoid  a  collision  with  three  horsemen  who  were  coming 
from  the  plains,  their  horses  unshod  and  with  all  the 
appearance  of  having  traveled  many  leagues.  One  of  the 
horsemen  seemed  advanced  in  years  and  was  apparently 
the  leader  or  the  master  of  the  others,  to  judge  by  the 
r-espectful  distance  at  which  they  kept  from  him,  and  by 
the  costly  trappings  of  his  horse. 

Eight  o'clock  had  just  struck. 

The  Calle  Larga  of  Barracas  was  deserted. 

But  in  the  midst  of  this  solitude  there  was  a  hidden 
animation,  and  amid  the  obscurity  a  torrent  of  light,  con- 
cealed within  the  walls  of  Amalia's  villa. 

In  the  salon  the  light  of  fifty  tapers  was  reflected  from 
the  mirrors,  from  the  polished  surface  of  the  furniture  and 
from  the  facets  of  the  cut  glass  vases  filled  with  flowers. 

Radiant  with  beauty,  youth  and  health  Amalia,  standing 
before  the  mirror  in  her  dressing-room  was  putting  the 

403 


404  AMALIA 

last  touches  to  her  toilette,  while  Luisa  gazed  at  her  in  an 
ecstasy  of  admiration. 

A  clock  struck  eight,  and  from  the  first  stroke  every 
succeeding  one  might  have  been  counted  in  the  palpitation 
of  Amalia's  heart,  beneath  the  lace  which  covered  her 
bosom,  and  suddenly  the  pomegranate  of  her  lips  and  the 
May  rose  of  her  cheeks  took  the  hues  of  the  pearl  and 
the  jasmine. 

"You  have  turned  pale  again,  senora;  and  just  now,  too, 
when  the  clock  struck  eight,"  said  Luisa. 

**It  is  precisely  for  that  reason,"  answered  Amalia,  pass- 
ing her  hand  over  her  forehead  and  sinking  into  a  chair. 

"Because  it  is  eight  o'clock?" 

"Yes;  I  don't  know  why  it  is,  but  since  six  this  evening 
every  time  I  hear  the  clock  strike  I  suffer  horribly." 

"Yes,  I  have  noticed  it  three  times  since  six  o'clock ;  and 
do  you  know  what  I  am  going  to  do?" 

"Wliat,  Luisa?" 

"I  am  going  to  stop  the  clock,  so  that  when  it  is  nine 
you  may  not  become  ill  again." 

"No,  Luisa,  no ;  it  is  over  now ;  it  was  nothing,"  returned 
Amalia,  rising,  while  the  color  returned  slowly  to  her  cheeks. 

"It  is  true,  it  is  true;  now  you  are  as  beautiful  as  ever; 
more  beautiful  than  I  have  ever  seen  you  before,  senora." 

"Hold  your  tongue,  silly  child;  go  and  call  Pedro." 

A  few  moments  later  Luisa  returned  with  Pedro,  so 
carefully  shaved  and  combed,  with  his  coat  buttoned  up 
to  the  chin  and  with  so  martial  an  air  that  he  seemed  to 
have  grown  twenty  years  younger  on  this  day  on  which 
his  Colonel's  daughter  was  to  be  married. 

"Pedro,  my  good  friend,"  said  Amalia,  "nothing  will 
be  changed  in  this  house;  I  wish  to  be  for  you  always 
what  I  have  been  up  to  this  day;  I  wish  you  to  care  for 


THE  WARNING  OF  THE  SOUL  405 

me  always  as  for  a  daughter;  and  the  first  proof  of  affec- 
tion which  I  desire  to  receive  from  you,  in  my  new  state, 
is  your  promise  that  you  will  never  leave  me." 

''Sefiora,  I^ — I  cannot  speak,  sefiora/'  said  the  old  man, 
shaking  his  head,  as  if  with  rage,  or  as  if  he  wished  by 
this  movement  to  restrain  the  tears  which  filled  his  eyes 
and  paralyzed  his  tongue. 

"Very  well;  all  you  need  say  is  yes.  I  wish  you  to 
accompany  me  next  week  to  Montevideo;  for  he  who  is 
to  be  my  husband  must  leave  Buenos  Ayres  to-night  and 
it  is  my  duty  to  share  his  fate.    Will  you  come,  Pedro?'* 

"Yes,  senora;  yes,  of  course,"  answered  the  old  man, 
affecting  to  be  perfectly  self-possessed  and  capable  of  utter- 
ing any  number  of  words. 

Amalia  went  over  to  a  table,  opened  an  ebony  casket 
which  stood  upon  it,  took  from  this  a  ring,  and  returned 
to  her  father's  old  companion  in  arms. 

"This  ring,"  she  said,  "was  made  from  my  hair  when 
I  was  a  child.  That  is  its  only  value,  and  it  is  for  that 
reason  that  I  give  it  to  you  to  keep  forever.  My  father 
wore  it  when  he  was  in  the  army." 

"Yes;  this  is  it,  I  know  it;  I  know  it  well!"  said  the 
soldier,  stooping  down  and  kissing  the  ring  which  his 
Colonel  had  worn,  as  if  it  were  a  holy  reHc. 

"One  thing  more,  Pedro,"  continued  Amalia,  whose  eyes 
were  moist  with  tears. 

"What  is  that,  senora?" 

"I  wish  you  to  be  one  of  the  witnesses  to  my  marriage. 
No  one  will  be  present  but  you  and  Daniel." 

The  soldier  for  sole  answer  approached  Amalia,  took  her 
hand  in  both  of  his,  that  trembled  with  emotion,  and  im- 
printed a  respectful  kiss  upon  it. 

"Have  the  two  men  servants  left  the  villa  already?" 


406  AMALIA 

"I  sent  them  away  at  dusk,  as  you  directed  me  to  do." 

"You  are  alone  then?" 

"Alone/* 

"Good.  To-morrow  you  will  distribute  this  among  the 
servants,  without  telling  them  why;"  and  Amalia  took  a 
roll  of  bank-notes  from  the  table  and  gave  it  to  Pedro. 

"Senora,"  said  Luisa,  "I  think  I  hear  a  noise  on  the 
road." 

"Is  everything  closed,  Pedro?" 

"Yes,  sefiora.  But  the  iron  door  leading  to  the  street — 
I  don't  know  how  it  is,  but  I  have  twice  found  it  open 
in  the  morning,  as  I  have  already  told  you,  although  I 
close  it  every  night  myself  and  keep  the  key  under  my 
pillow." 

"Well,  let  us  not  speak  of  that  to-night." 

"Sefiora,"  repeated  Luisa,  "I  hear  a  noise  and  I  think 
it  is  a  carriage." 

"Yes,  I  hear  it  too." 

"And  it  has  stopped,"  added  Luisa. 

"Yes,  it  must  be  they.  Go,  Pedro,  but  do  not  open  until 
you  learn  who  it  is." 

"Have  no  fear,  sefiora.  I  am  alone,  but — have  no  fear," 
repeated  the  veteran  as  he  left  the  room. 


CHAPTER  XLIV 


THE  BRIDAL  VEIL 


Am  ALIA  had  not  been  mistaken,  for  the  persons  who  had 
just  arrived  were  in  fact  those  whom  she  had  been  await- 
ing for  so  many  hours  and  with  so  much  anxiety. 

From  her  dressing-room  she  heard  the  door  of  the  salon 
open  and  at  once  recognized  Daniel's  step  approaching 
through  the  outer  rooms. 

''Ah,  senora,"  said  the  young  man,  standing  still  at  the 
door  of  the  dressing-room  and  regarding  Amalia,  "I  ex- 
pected to  have  the  pleasure  of  finding  here  a  beautiful 
woman,  and  I  have  the  delightful  surprise  of  finding  a 
goddess !" 

'Truly  ?"  answered  AmaHa,  with  an  enchanting  smile, 
as  she  finished  drawing  on  a  white  kid  glove  that  fitted  her 
beautiful  hand  to  perfection. 

''Yes,  truly,"  replied  Daniel,  approaching  his  cousin  with 
a  look  of  genuine  admiration,  and  pressing  a  kiss  upon  her 
forehead —  "But  come ;  Eduardo  and  the  priest  are  outside ; 
and  the  latter  must  not  remain  even  ten  minutes." 

"And  why  not  ?" 

"Because  while  he  is  here  the  carriage  must  remain  at 
the  door." 

"Well?" 

"Well,  a  party  of  soldiers  might  pass  by;  the  carriage 
would  attract  their  attention;  they  would  watch,  and " 

"Ah,    yes,    yes — I    understand    you — Come,    Daniel — ■ 

407 


408  AMALIA 

but "  and  Amalia  leaned  her  hand  on  the  table  beside 

her  and  was  silent. 

"But  what?" 

"I  don't  know — I  should  like  to  laugh  at  myself,  but  I 
cannot  do  that  either — I  don't  know  what  it  is  that  op- 
presses my  heart — but " 

*'Come,  Amalia." 

And  the  young  man  took  his  cousin's  hand  and  passing 
It  through  his  arm  led  her  through  the  bedroom  and  the 
ante-chamber  into  the  salon  where  the  priest  and  Eduardo 
were  awaiting  them. 

The  latter  was  dressed  entirely  in  black  and  wore  white 
gloves.  His  hair,  black  as  ebony,  seemed  blacker  from 
the  contrast  it  formed  with  the  pallor  of  his  face,  and 
the  velvety  shadows  under  his  fine  eyes  imparted  a  ting^ 
of  romantic  sadness  to  his  manly  countenance. 

He  and  Amalia  exchanged  volumes  in  their  first  glance. 

And  the  priest,  who  had  been  informed  by  Daniel  of 
the  necessity  of  concluding  briefly  the  ceremony  that  was 
about  to  take  place,  all  the  arrangements  for  which  had 
been  made  beforehand  by  Bello,  prepared  himself  at  once 
for  the  most  solemn  act,  perhaps,  of  his  mission  on  earth 
— that  which  unites  two  lives  and  two  souls. 

The  priest  offered  up  a  prayer,  asked  that  question  the 
response  to  which  influences  for  time  and  for  eternity  the 
fate  of  the  man  and  the  woman  who  pronounce  it,  and 
which  no  human  lips  can  pronounce  without  the  heart  beat- 
ing more  quickly,  and  then,  in  the  name  of  the  Trinity, 
Indivisible  and  Eternal,  Eduardo  and  Amalia  were  united 
for  earth  and  for  heaven. 

No  sooner  was  the  ceremony  ended  than  Daniel  an- 
proached  Pedro  and  whispered  to  him : 

"Is  your  horse  in  the  stable?" 


THE  BRIDAL  VEIL  409 

"He  is." 

"I  shall  need  him  for  an  hour." 

"Very  well." 

Then,  taking  Amalia  by  the  hand  and  leading  her  to  a 
sofa  in  the  ante-chamber,  while  Eduardo  was  thanking  the 
priest,  he  said  to  her: 

"The  priest  is  going  now  and  I  am  going  also." 

"You?" 

"Yes,  Madame  Belgrano;  I;  because  it  is  my  fate  to  be 
at  rest  nowhere,  in  order  that  your  husband  may  be  at 
rest  at  last  in  Montevideo." 

"But  what  has  happened  ?  My  God !  what  has  happened  ? 
Did  you  not  tell  us  that  you  would  stay  with  us  until  the 
moment  of  embarkation?" 

"Yes,  and  it  is  for  that  reason  that  I  must  leave  you 
for  a  short  time  now.  Listen  to  me;  you  know  that  the 
place  of  embarkation  is  the  Boca,  for  the  reason  that  no 
one  will  think  of  it;  but  Douglas  and  I  agreed  to  meet 
to-night  between  nine  and  ten  o'clock  at  one  of  the  little 
frame  houses  in  the  port,  lest  anything  should  in  the  mean- 
time have  occurred  to  render  necessary  any  change  in  our 
plans;  and  as  the  Englishman  is  even  more  punctual  than 
an  Englishman  I  am  certain  that  before  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  he  will  be  at  the  place  of  meeting,  for  it  is  now  on 
the  stroke  of  nine.  I  will  be  back  within  an  hour;  and 
meanwhile,  Fermin,  who  is  acting  as  coachman,  will  drive 
the  priest  to  his  house  and  will  come  back  here  on  horse- 
back, bringing  my  horse  with  him  for  me  to  return  to 
the  city." 

"And  to  go  to  the  Boca?"  asked  Amalia,  who  was  hang- 
ing on  Daniers  words. 

"No,  when  I  go  with  Eduardo  we  will  go  on  foot." 

"On  foot?" 


410  AMALIA 

**Yes;  for  our  way  lies  between  the  villas  of  SomelK.ra 
and  Brown,  and  then  by  the  bathing  ground,  and  we  shall 
be  as  safe  as  if  we  were  in  London." 

"Yes,  yes ;  I  think  that  is  better,"  answered  Amalia ;  "but 
Fermin  and  Pedro  will  go  with  you  ?" 

"No,  we  two  will  go  alone;  leave  all  to  me.  Now  we 
must  part,  for  I  shall  not  be  easy  in  my  mind  until  the 
carriage  has  driven  away  from  your  door." 

"Do  you  carry  arms?" 

"Yes;  come  and  say  good-bye  to  the  priest." 

They  returned  to  the  salon  and  a  moment  afterward 
Amalia  and  Eduardo  accompanied  to  the  hall-door  the 
minister  of  the  church  who  exposed  himself  in  the  fulfill- 
ment of  the  duties  of  his  ministry  to  all  the  dangers  of 
the  place  and  the  hour  in  those  times. 

And  at  the  same  moment  in  v/hich  the  carriage  started 
for  the  city  and  Eduardo  closed  the  street  door,  Daniel 
rode  slowly  through  the  gate  of  the  villa,  enveloped  in  his 
poncho,  humming  one  of  the  melancholy  songs  of  the 
plains,  like  the  best  and  most  careless  of  gauchos. 


CHAPTER  XLV 


THE   NUPTIAL   COUCH 


As  the  clock  of  the  villa  was  striking  ten,  Pedro  opened 
the  gate  to  admit  Daniel,  whose  voice  he  had  heard  and 
recognized  singing  in  the  dark  and  solitary  Calle  Larga. 

''Heaven  protects  us,  my  child,''  said  Daniel  to  Amalia, 
joining  Eduardo  and  his  cousin  in  the  salon.  "All  the 
arrangements  are  completed  and  everything  is  now  ready. 
Only,  that  instead  of  waiting  for  daybreak,  Douglas  has 
fixed  the  hour  of  embarkation  for  twelve  o'clock;  that  is, 
within  two  hours." 

"And  why  this  change?"  asked  Amalia. 

"That  is  what  I  cannot  tell  you ;  but  I  have  so  much 
confidence  in  the  foresight  and  sagacity  of  my  famous 
smuggler,  that  when  he  named  that  hour  I  asked  him  no 
questions,  because  I  was  certain  that  it  must  be  the  hour 
most  suitable  for  the  embarkation." 

Eduardo  took  Amalia's  hand  in  his  and  it  seemed  as 
if  he  wished  to  transmit  his  soul  to  her  in  the  contact. 

Daniel  regarded  them  tenderly  for  a  moment  and  then 
said: 

"Fate  has  not  granted  my  most  ardent  desire — I  had 
wished  to  behold  your  happiness  in  the  light  of  mine. 
Involved  in  the  same  misfortunes,  I  had  wished  that  at 
the  same  hour  we  might  snatch  from  fate  a  moment  for 
our  common  happiness;  and  if  Florencia  were  now  at  my 
side,  I  should  be  the  happiest  of  mortals.     But  at  least  I 

411 


412  AMALIA 

have  obtained  already  half  of  my  desires.  As  to  the  other 
half — God  will  dispose — .  But  come,  let  us  be  satisfied  with 
these  moments  which  are  ours,  and  think  only  of  the  days 
which  we  shall  soon  spend  together  in  Montevideo,  and 
speak  only  of  them." 

A  few  moments  afterwards  Pedro  entered  with  the  tea- 
tray  and  placed  it  on  a  table  in  the  library  which,  as  we 
know,  was  between  the  salon  and  Amalia's  bedroom,  and 
into  which  Amalia  now  passed  with  her  husband  and  her 
cousin,  having  first  told  Pedro  to  retire,  for  she  would 
never  allow  the  old  man  to  wait  on  her. 

Before  ten  minutes  were  over  Daniel  had  brought  cheer- 
fulness back  to  his  friends. 

But  suddenly  a  cry  from  Luisa  fell  like  a  thunderclap 
on  the  ears  of  all  three. 

It  was  a  shrill,  horrible,  strident  cry,  while  at  the  same 
instant  they  saw  the  terrified  girl  running  toward  them 
from  the  inner  room  and  at  the  same  instant,  also,  a  shot 
sounded  in  the  courtyard,  accompanied  by  a  loud  and  con- 
fused noise  of  cries  and  hurried  steps. 

And  before  Luisa  had  had  the  time  to  utter  a  word, 
before  anyone  had  asked  her  a  question,  they  all  divined 
what  had  happened  and,  simultaneously  with  this  instinctive 
divination,  the  reality  appeared  before  them,  through  the 
glass  door  of  the  library,  at  the  further  end  of  the  room 
from  which  the  girl  had  run;  for  a  number  of  sinister 
figures  were  precipitating  themselves  through  Luisa's  room 
into  Amalia's  dressing-room.  And  all  this,  from  the  girl's 
cry  to  the  appearance  of  those  men,  passed  in  a  space  of 
time  as  brief  as  the  duration  of  a  flash  of  lightning. 

But  with  the  same  swiftness,  also,  Eduardo  drew  his 
bride  to  the  salon  and  took  his  pistol  from  the  mantelpiece. 

And  at  the  same  instant,  for  all  was  simultaneous,  and 


THE  NUPTL4L  COUCH  41S 

swift  as  light,  Daniel  dragged  the  table  to  the  door  leading 
from  the  library  into  the  bedroom  and  overturned  it  with 
the  lamp,  teatray,  and  everything  else  upon  it,  in  the 
doorway. 

"Save  us,  Daniel!"  cried  Amalia,  throwing  herself  upon 
Eduardo  as  he  was  taking  his  pistols. 

*'Yes,  my  Amalia,  but  it  must  be  by  fighting;  there  is 
no  time  now  for  talking." 

These  last  words  were  lost  in  the  report  of  the  pistols 
of  Eduardo  who  fired  at  a  number  of  the  ruffians  who  were 
already  in  the  bedroom,  while  Daniel  piled  up  chairs  in 
the  doorway,  and  another  shot  sounded  in  the  courtyard 
and  a  roar  like  that  of  a  lion  rose  above  the  cries  and  the 
detonations. 

*'My  God !  they  have  killed  Pedro !"  cried  Amalia,  cling- 
ing to  the  left  arm  of  Eduardo,  who  tried  in  vain  to  free 
himself  from  her  clasp. 

*'Not  yet,"  cried  the  soldier,  entering  the  salon  through 
the  door  that  opened  into  the  hall,  his  face  and  breast 
bathed  in  the  blood  that  streamed  from  a  wound  which 
he  had  received  in  the  head,  and  throwing  into  the  library, 
as  he  spoke,  Eduardo's  sword,  that  fell  beside  them  where 
they  stood  together  behind  the  barricade  improvised  by 
Daniel.  And  while  with  his  left  arm  he  wiped  the  blood 
from  his  eyes,  with  his  right,  in  which  he  held  his  saber, 
he  tried  to  push  into  its  place  the  bolt  of  the  door  of 
the  salon. 

The  voice  of  Eduardo  saying  to  his  bride,  who  was  cling- 
ing to  him  "You  will  ruin  us,  Amalia;  leave  us;  go  into 
the  salon,"  was  lost  in  the  noise  of  the  demoniac  shouts 
of  the  men  in  the  courtyard  and  the  dressing-room,  and 
of  those  who  were  entering  the  bedroom,  one  of  whom  had 
already  fallen,  killed  by  a  shot  from  Eduardo^s  pistol. 


414  AMALIA 

The  glass  of  the  mirrors  in  the  dressing-room  was  shat- 
tered into  a  thousand  fragments  by  the  saber-strokes 
showered  upon  them  as  well  as  upon  the  furniture,  the 
window-panes,  the  china  on  the  washstand,  upon  every- 
thing in  the  room,  each  stroke  being  accompanied  by  savage 
cries  which  rendered  still  more  frightful  this  scene  of 
terror  and  death. 

When  Eduardo  had  fired  some  of  the  men  who  had 
invaded  the  bedroom  had  retreated  a  few  paces  while  others 
had  stopped  suddenly,  not  venturing  to  advance  toward  the 
barricade  in  front  of  the  door.  But  at  this  instant  two 
men  precipitated  themselves  into  the  bedroom. 

*'Ah,  Trancoso  and  Badia !"  cried  Daniel,  throwing  down 
another  chair,  placing  himself  with  his  back  against  the 
jamb  of  the  door,  and  drawing  from  his  bosom  the  weapon 
with  which  he  had  saved  his  friend's  life  on  the  night  of 
the  4th  of  May,  the  only  one  he  carried  and  which  could 
be  of  little  avail  in  the  unequal  struggle  that  was  about 
to  begin. 

And  as  these  two  men  rushed  into  the  room,  like  two 
demons,  the  one  with  a  pistol  in  his  hand,  the  other  with 
a  sword,  Eduardo  threw  his  arm  around  Amalia,  lifted 
her  up  and  carrying  her  into  the  salon,  placed  her  upon 
a  sofa,  and  returning  to  the  library,  took  up  the  sword 
which  Pedro  had  thrown  in.  And  the  latter,  who  had  just 
succeeded  in  bolting  the  door  of  the  salon,  attempted  to 
follow  Eduardo  into  the  library,  but  he  had  hardly  taken 
two  steps  before  his  strength  failed  him,  his  knees  bent 
beneath  him,  and  he  fell,  trembling  with  rage,  beside  the 
sofa  on  which  his  mistress  lay.  There  he  clung  to  her 
feet,  bathing  with  his  generous  blood  this  young  creature 
whom  he  still  endeavored  to  save,  holding  her  tightly  in 
order  to  prevent  her  from  moving. 


THE  NUPTIAL  COUCH  415 

Meanwhile,  swift  and  fatal  as  the  lightning,  Eduardo*s 
saber  fell  on  the  head  of  the  nearest  of  the  ten  or  twelve 
ruffians  who,  at  the  command  of  their  leader,  had  attacked 
the  frail  barrier  opposed  to  their  further  progress  by  the 
overturned  table  and  chairs.  And  at  the  same  instant, 
Daniel,  reaching  across  it,  struck  another  of  them  a  power- 
ful blow  with  his  casse-tete  on  the  shoulder,  dislocating 
his  arm. 

"Take  his  saber!"  cried  Eduardo,  while  Pedro,  who  had 
attempted  in  vain  to  rise,  for  he  had  received  a  wound 
in  the  breast  and  another  in  the  head,  either  of  which  of 
itself  would  have  proved  fatal,  had  only  strength  sufficient 
to  clasp  Amalia's  feet,  and  voice  to  keep  repeating  to  Luisa, 
who  was  also  clinging  to  her  mistress : 

"The  lights,  extinguish  the  lights,  for  God's  sake!" 

But  Luisa  either  did  not  hear  him,  or  if  she  heard  would 
not  obey  him,  fearing  no  doubt  to  be  left  in  the  dark — 
if  it  were  possible  for  her  to  be  more  afraid  than  she 
already  was. 

But  the  well-aimed  blows  of  Daniel  and  Eduardo  only 
served  to  draw  the  assassins  upon  them  in  greater  numbers ; 
for,  at  the  command  of  one  of  their  leaders  the  men  who 
were  pillaging  and  smashing  furniture  in  the  dressing-room 
came  to  the  assistance  of  their  companions.  As  they  rushed 
toward  the  barricade  Eduardo  himself,  impatient  at  the 
obstacles  which  impeded  the  sweep  of  his  sword,  en- 
deavored with  his  feet  to  push  aside  the  chairs;  and  a 
passage  had  been  almost  cleared  from  the  one  room  to  the 
other  when  Daniel  brought  down  his  terrible  weapon  upon 
the  back  of  one  of  the  men  who  was  stooping  in  the 
bedroom,  to  push  aside  a  chair,  and  the  body  of  the  ruffian 
filled  up  the  space  which  Eduardo  had  cleared. 

"Save  Amalia,  Daniel,  save  her;  leave  me  to  myself; 


416  AMALIA 

save  her !"  cried  Eduardo,  trembling  with  rage,  less  because 
of  the  unequal  struggle  he  was  maintaining  than  because 
of  the  obstacles  which  he  was  unable  to  remove  with  his 
hands,  obliged  as  he  was  to  defend  himself  with  his  sword 
against  the  daggers  and  sabers  on  the  other  side  of  them, 
while  he  feared  to  stumble  and  fall  if  he  should  try  to 
push  them  aside  with  his  feet. 

All  this  might  have  lasted  some  ten  minutes,  when  six 
or  eight  of  the  ruffians  left  the  bedroom  and  retreated 
through  the  dressing-room  while  the  others  continued,  at 
the  command  of  their  leader,  who  remained  with  them,  to 
endeavor  to  drag  away  the  overturned  articles  of  furniture, 
but  so  timorously  that  they  had  succeeded  only  in  removing 
two  or  three  chairs  that  were  out  of  the  reach  of  Eduardo's 
sword. 

Neither  of  the  two  young  men  had  been  wounded  and 
Eduardo,  while  he  was  resting  his  arm  for  a  moment, 
turned  his  head  to  look  through  the  glass  door  of  the  library 
at  Amalia,  guarded  by  a  dying  man  and  a  child,  and  then, 
turning  to  his  friend,  he  said  to  him  in  French: 

"Escape  with  her  through  the  door  of  the  salon  to  the 
road;  gain  the  ditch  on  the  opposite  side;  and  in  five 
minutes  I  shall  have  broken  all  the  lamps,  and  I  will  cut 
my  way  through  this  rabble  and  join  you." 

"Yes,'*  said  Daniel,  *'it  is  the  only  way;  but  I  did  not 
wish  to  leave  you  alone  nor  do  I  wish  to  do  so  now. 
I  will  try  to  take  her  out  and  be  back  with  you  in  a  few 
minutes;  but  meanwhile,  do  not  cross  the  barricade." 

And  Daniel  passed,  swift,  as  lightning,  into  the  salon; 
but  just  as  he  threw  down  one  of  the  lamps  and  one  of 
the  two  candelabra  that  were  burning  there,  a  tremendous 
blow  delivered  on  the  door  of  the  room  forced  the  bolt, 


THE  NUPTIAL  COUCH  41V 

the  door  flew  open,  and  a  band  of  the  ruffians  rushed  into 
the  room. 

A  terrible  cry,  a  cry  that  seemed  to  tear  with  it  the 
fibers  of  her  heart,  issued  from  the  breast  of  the  unhappy 
AmaHa,  who,  releasing  herself  from  the  cold  hands  of 
Pedro  and  from  the  weak  arms  of  little  Luisa,  ran  to 
shield  Eduardo  with  her  body,  while  Daniel  took  his  sword 
from  the  now  expiring  Pedro  and  ran  also  into  the  library. 

But  the  assassins  entered  it  with  him,  and  when  Eduardo 
pressed  Amalia  to  his  heart,  to  make  a  last  rampart  for 
her  with  his  body,  all  were  confounded  together;  Daniel 
received  a  cut  from  a  knife  in  his  right  arm  and  a  dagger 
pierced  the  breast  of  Eduardo,  who,  by  a  superhuman 
effort,  still  maintained  himself  upon  his  feet,  and  at  this 
mom.ent  in  which  Amalia's  arm  supported  him  with  dif- 
ficulty, in  a  corner  of  the  library,  while  his  right  hand 
was  raised  at  the  impulse  of  the  blood  to  strike  his 
assailants,  and  while  Daniel,  in  the  opposite  corner,  with 
a  saber  in  his  left  hand,  was  defending  himself  like  a  hero, 
a  succession  of  tremendous  blows  fell  upon  the  street  door. 
Luisa,  who  had  run  terrified  into  the  hall,  recognized  Fer- 
min's  voice,  drew  the  bolt  and  opened  the  door. 

Then  a  man  of  venerable  aspect,  enveloped  in  a  dark 
poncho,  rushed  in,  crying  in  a  voice  of  thunder,  but  full  of 
anguish,  like  the  cry  which  nature  tears  from  the  heart: 

"Hold !  hold !  in  the  name  of  the  Restorer !" 

And  all  heard  this  voice  but  Eduardo,  whose  soul  had 
at  that  instant  taken  its  flight  to  God;  his  head  dropped 
on  the  breast  of  his  Amalia,  who,  sinking  with  him  un- 
conscious, as  he  fell,  lay  bathed  in  blood,  beside  the  body 
of  her  husband,  of  her  Eduardo. 

At  that  instant  the  clock  struck  eleven, 


418  AMALIA 

"Here,  father,  here;  save  Amalia,"  cried  Daniel,  who 
had  heard  and  recognized  his  father's  voice. 

And  at  the  same  instant  the  young  man,  who  had  received 
another  wound,  a  deep  wound  in  the  head,  fell  into  the 
arms  of  his  father,  who  by  a  single  word  had  suspended 
the  dagger  which  the  same  word  had  raised  to  be  the 
instrument  of  so  much  misfortune  and  so  many 
crimes ! 


EPILOGUE 

History,  which  has  much  of  interest  to  say  later  regard- 
ing the  fortunes  of  certain  personages  who  have  figured 
in  this  long  narration,  relates  only,  for  the  present,  that 
on  the  day  succeeding  that  on  which  this  bloody  drama 
was  enacted  those  of  the  neighbors  who  through  curiosity 
entered  the  villa  at  Barracas  that  had  been  attacked  by 
the  Federal  soldiers,  found  there  only  four  dead  bodies — 
that  of  Pedro,  and  those  of  three  members  of  the  Sociedad 
Popular  Restauradora ;  all  of  which  remained  there  until 
the  evening  of  the  same  day,  when  they  were  taken  away 
in  a  police  wagon,  at  which  time  also  the  articles  that  still 
remained  in  the  presses,  on  the  tables,  and  in  the  wardrobes 
were  carried  off. 

It  is  related  also  that  Don  Candido  Rodriguez,  on  the 
death  of  Mr.  Slade,  which  occurred  a  few  weeks  after 
the  events  just  narrated,  was  compelled  by  a  justice  of  the 
peace  to  leave  the  consul's  house,  for  he  had  positively 
refused  to  quit  the  territory  of  the  United  States,  even 
after  the  consul's  death  and  when  the  house  was  no  longer 
a  consulate. 

Of  Dofia  Marcelina  it  is  only  known  that  one  day  she 
went  to  offer  her  hand  to  Don  Candido,  as  a  living  reminder 
of  the  dangers  they  had  together  passed  through,  which 
Don  Candido  rejected  with  horror. 

THE  END 

419 


FROHearx  of 


Franz  C.  Feger 
70  Fifth  Avenue      New  York 


