Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


1 


AMERICAN 
ANTHROPOLOGIST 


NEW  SERIES 

ORGAN  OF  THE  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION, 
THE  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  SOCIETY  OF  WASHINGTON. 
AND  THE  AMERICAN  ETHNOLOGICAL 
SOCIETY  OF  NEW  YORK 


PUBLICATION    COMMITTEE 

F.  W.    PUTNAM,  Chairman  tx-officio ;  F.  W.  HODCJE,  Secretary  ex-officio  ;  JUAN 
B.   AMBROSETTI,  FRANK  BAKER.  FRANZ  BOAS,  DAVID  BOYLE, 
ALEXANDER  F.    CHAMBERLAIN,    ALFREDO  CHAVERO, 
STEWART  CULIN,  GEORGE  A.  DORSEY,  J.  WALTER 
FEWKES,    ALICE  C.    FLETCHER,    W.    H. 
HOLMES,    H.   VON   IHERING,   A.    L. 
KROEBER,    RODOLFO   LENZ, 
W  J   McGEE,    CHARLES 
PEABODY. 

F.  W.  HODGE,  Editor,  Washington,  D.j:. 


VOLUME  7 


LANCASTER,  PA.,  U.  S.  A. 

I'l'IlLlSHKlJ    FOR 

THE    AMERICAN   ANTHROPOLOGICAL   ASSOCIATION 

1905 


Prvw  of 
Hm  nnr  Uu  PmNniw 


iv  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

The  Eolithic  Problem  —  Evidences  of  a  Rude  Industry  Antedating 
the  Paleolithic.  George  Grant  MacCurdy.  (plates  xxv- 
XXIX) 425 

Notes  on    the  San    Carlos  Apache.     Ale§  Hrdlicka.     (plates 

xxx-xxxii) 480 

A  Pawnee  Personal  Medicine  Shrine.     George  A.  Dorsey.         .  496 

Dress  and  Ornaments  of  the  New  England  Indians.     Charles  C. 

WiLLOUGHBY 499 

The  Splayed  or  So-called  '*  Casco  Foot  "  in  the  Filipino.     Albert 

Ernest  Jenks.  (plates  xxxiii-xxxiv)  ....  509 
InMemoriam:  Washington  Matthews,  (plate  xxxv).  .  .514 
Some  More  About  Virginia  Names.  William  Wallace  Tooker.  524 
Systematic  Nomenclature  in  Ethnology.  A.  L.  Kroeber  .  -579 
The  Indian  Population  of  California.  C.  Hart  Merriam.  .  .  594 
The  Mythology  of  the  Shasta- Achomawi.  Roland  B.  Dixon  .  607 
Mechanical  Aids  to  the  Study  and  Recording  of  Language.     P.  E. 

GODDARD.       (plate    XXXVI ) 613 

Religious  Ceremonies  and  Myths  of  the  Mission  Indians.  Con- 
stance GoDDARD  Dubois 620 

The  Naming  of  Specimens  in  American  Archeology.  Charles  Pea- 
body  and  Warren  K.    Moorehead     .....  630 

A   Few   Ethnological   Specimens  Collected  by  Lewis  and  Clark. 

Charles  C.  Willoughby.     (plates  xxxvii-xxxviii)    .         .  633 

Maya  Dates.     J.  T.  Goodman 642 

Basket  Designs  of  the  Pomo  Indians.     S.  E.  Barrett,     (plates 

xxxix-xl) 648 

A  New  Method  of  Preserving  Specimens  of  Shell  and  other  Perish- 
able Materials.     Philip  Mills  Jones 654 

Sketch  of  the  Grammar  of  the  Luisefio  Language  of  California. 

P.  S.  Sparkman 656 

The  Social  Organization  of  American  Tribes.     John  R.  S wanton  .  663 

Some  Features  of  the  Language  and  Culture  of  the  Salish.     Charles 

Hill-Tout 674 

The  Obsidian  Blades  of  California.    Horatio  N.  Rust,     (plate  xli)  688 

BOOK  REVIEWS 

Ferrand:  Basis  of  American  History  (/r£7//w^x)    .  .         .         .114 

Metcalf  :  Outline  of  the  Theory  of  Organic  Evolution  (  Ward')     .   117 
Thorndike:  Introduction   to   the   Theory   of  Mental   and   Social 

Measurements  (^Wissler)      .         .         .         .  .         .118 


CONTENTS  OF  VOLUME  7  V 

DoiGNEAU  :  Notes  d'arch^ologie  pr6historique  —  Nos  anc^tres  primi- 

tifs  (^MacCurdy)  .  .  .  .120 

Nelson  :  Personal  Names  of  Indians  of  New  Jersey  (^Mooney)  .  123 
Dorsey:  The    Mythology  of  the  Wichita  (J/^^w/y)      .  .123 

Trifkovic:  Vier  Lustspiele  (^Mooney)  .         .  .         .126 

Krause:  Anthropophyteia  (Mooney)  .  .  .         .  .127 

MObiijs:    Beitrage  zur  Lehre  von  den  Geschlechts-Unterschieden 

{Chamberlain)  •         .  .  .129 

Folkmar:  Album  of  Philippine  Types  (5/tfrr)  .  .  .  -131 
Reports  of  the  Cambridge  Anthropological  Expedition  to  Torres 

Straits,  Vol.  V  {Starr) 132 

BoGORAS :  The  Chuckchee  {Sternberg)  .  .         .         .         .320 

Le6n  :   \jO(s  Vo^loczs  {Chamberlain)  .  .         .  •   324 

I.£HMANN-NiTSCHE :  La  Colecciou  Boggiani  de  Tipos  Indigenas  de 

Sudamerica  Central  ( CAa/«^^r/j/«)  .         .  •  3*5 

Zeitschrift  fUr  Demographie  und  Statistik  der  Juden  (  Casanowicz)  326 
Krause  :  Romanische  Meistererzahler,  unter  Mitwirkung  {Mooney)  327 
Hubbard:  Neolithic  Dew-ponds  and  Cattle-ways  (il/arC«rd^)  .  529 
Livi :  Antropometria  Militare  {HrdlUka)      .  .         -531 

Jenks  :  The  Bontoc  Igorot  ( Chamberlain)  .....  696 
Machado:  a  Universidade  e  a  Na^io  ( C4tf»i^^rAw«)  .  .701 

ANTHROPOLOGIC   MISCELLANEA 

LoaisUna  Purchase  Exposition  awards,  157.     Preservation  of  antiquities,  164.     Archaeo- 
logical  Institute  of  America,   166.     A  form  of  urn-burial  on   Mobile   bay,    167. 
Facial   casts,    169.     Marquis  de   Nadaillac,    169.     The  Wisconsin  Archeological 
Society,  170.     The  Justin  Winsor  Prire,  171.     Thomas  Varker  Keam,  171.     An 
interesting  broadside,  172.     Tlingit  method  of  collecting  herring-eggs,  172.     Bon- 
toc-Igorot  clothing,  173.     Minor  notes,  173.     American  Anthropological  Associa- 
tion, 354.     Fifteenth  International  Congress  of  Americanists,  355.      Congr^s  Pr6- 
historiqne  de  France,  356.     Congr^  International  d' Expansion  ficonomique  Mon- 
diale,  357.     The   Jews  of  Mzab,   357.     Columbia   University  courses  in  anthro- 
pology, 358.     Head  deformation  among  the  Klamath,  360.     Maricopa  weaving, 
361.     A  Cora  cradle,  361.     Jacob  Vradenburg  Brower,  362.     Minnesota  Historical 
Society,  363.     Minor  notes,   363.     Recent  work  of  the  Wisconsin  Archeological 
Society,  556.     Explorations  at   Cavetown,   Maryland,   568.     Preservation  of  an- 
tiquities, 569.     Supposed  Shoshoneans  in  Lower  California,  570.     Ponce  de  Le6n 
and  the  "  Fountain  of  Youth,''  572.     Recent  Folk-lore  meetings  in  California,  573. 
Moskwaki  Indians  of  Iowa,  575.     Inlaid  objects,  575.      The  so-called   **  oldest 
bouse"   in    Santa    F*,    576.     El   Morro   inscriptions,   576.     Missouri    Historical 
Society,   577.      Minor    notes,    577.     American   Anthropological   Association,  728. 
International   Congress  of  Americanists,   729.     Congr^s   International   d'Anthro- 
pologie  et  d*  Arch^ologie  Pr^historiques,  729.     Jay  feathers  in  Cora  ceremony,  730. 
Minor  notes,  730. 


American  Anthropologist 


NEW  SERIES 


Vol.  7  January-March,  1905  No.  i 

ETHNIC  FACTORS  IN  EDUCATION ' 
By  EDGAR  L.  HEWETT 

The  eminent  place  accorded  education  in  our  social  organiza- 
tion makes  imperative  the  closest  investigation  of  every  factor  in 
educational  practice.  Instruction  is  a  scientific  work  of  the  highest 
order.  Pedagogy  has  no  special  body  of  facts  or  phenomena  of  its 
own  as  material  for  investigation  ;  it  depends  for  its  structure  on  the 
conclusions  of  contributory  sciences.  Its  "sphere  of  influence** 
being  coextensive  with  all  human  welfare,  no  necessity  exists  for 
examining  limits,  but  emphasis  must  constantly  be  placed  on  organi- 
zation. On  the  clear  apprehension  of  the  relation  of  the  contribu- 
tory sciences  of  biology,  psychology,  sociology,  and  anthropology 
to  pedagogy  depends  the  efficiency  of  the  educational  system. 

Before  proceeding  to  the  direct  investigation  of  the  subject  an- 
nounced in  the  title,  it  will  be  necessary  to  consider  briefly  the  results 
of  the  long  discussion  of  the  aims  of  education.  The  keen  analysis 
to  which  this  question  has  been  subjected  in  recent  years  does  not 
disclose  any  real  antagonism  between  the  individual  and  the  social 
aims.  In  practice  in  American  schools  the  individualistic  ideal  is 
unquestionably  predominant,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  in  the 
great  majority  of  our  schools  for  the  training  of  teachers,  empha- 
sis is  placed  on  the  interest  of  society,  and  the  normal  school  that 
gives  no  place  to  the  social  sciences  in  pedagogical  training  is  not 
in  the  professional  class.  A  just  conception  of  the  relation  between 
the  individual  and  society  affords  no  ground  for  placing  especial 
emphasis  on  the  interests  of  either. 

*  Read  before  the  Section  of  Social  and  Economic  Sciences,  A.  A.  A.  S.,  at  the 
PhiUde]pbia  meeting,  December,  1904-January,  1905. 

▲M.  AKTM..  K.  S.,  7 — I  ' 


2  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

In  every  normal  individual  of  any  stage  of  culture  there  exists 
a  feeling  that  the  activities  which  yield  him  the  greatest  satisfaction 
are  those  which  involve  the  interests  of  his  fellow  men.  He  finds 
no  happiness  in  habitual  isolation.  For  the  pleasure  of  association 
with  his  kind  he  submits  to  the  social  will.  In  primitive  stages  of 
culture  he  unconsciously  accepts  the  esthetic,  the  economic,  the 
social,  the  religious  traditions  of  his  tribe.  In  civilized  society  he 
does  not  surrender  his  consciousness  to  the  group.  He  examines 
and  criticizes  social  conditions ;  seeks  to  accelerate  or  retard  social 
progress  ;  strives  to  establish,  annul,  or  modify  customs  and  beliefs ; 
pits  his  individual  reasonings  against  public  motives,  opinions,  and 
acts  ;  yet  withal  submits  to  what  society  sanctions.  But  while  appa- 
rently emphasizing  the  interests  of  society,  he  knows  that  society  is 
the  great  efficient  agent  for  benefitting,  developing,  perfecting  him- 
self. Its  interests  are  his  interests.  In  the  self-renunciation  inci- 
dent to  social  service  he  realizes  his  highest  happiness  and  highest 
individual  perfection.  His  individualization  and  his  socialization 
proceed  simultaneously  by  like  processes.  Antagonism  to  the 
social  order  carried  to  the  extent  of  destructiveness  is  an  aberrant 
condition.  On  the  general  acceptance  of  this  fact  of  the  identity 
of  individual  and  social  interests  depends  the  happy  adjustments  of 
most  of  our  social,  economic,  political,  and  educational  problems. 

Since  an  individual  aim  in  education,  standing  for  the  highest 
development  of  the  powers  of  the  one,  and  a  social  aim,  emphasiz- 
ing the  interests  of  the  many,  proceed  by  simultaneous  and  similar 
processes  to  a  common  end,  it  is  not  necessary  to  accept  any  dictum 
as  to  the  educational  aim.  It  is  individual,  social,  ethnical.  A 
sound,  commonplace  aim  to  keep  in  view  in  educating  Americans 
is  to  make  better  Americans ;  in  educating  Indians  to  make  better 
Indians ;  in  educating  Filipinos  to  make  better  Filipinos;  and  it 
should  especially  be  noted  that  when  the  term  is  applied  to  the 
process  of  improving  any  race  or  group  or  individual  that  is  not 
formally  praying  to  be  absorbed  into  the  citizenship  of  the  United 
States,  it  in  no  sense  implies  to  Americanise. 

The  phenomena  of  the  four  sciences  previously  mentioned  as 
contributing  data  for  the  scientific  study  of  education  are  so  inter- 
dependent that  they  cannot  be  definitely  separated.     The  purpose 


HEWETT]  ETHNIC  FACTORS  IN  EDUCATION  3 

of  this  paper  is  to  examine  anthropological  facts  and  conditions 
which  are  vital  in  the  development  of  the  American  system  of  public 
education.  But  I  am  aware  that  some  of  the  material  chosen  for  con- 
sideration may  justly  be  claimed  to  be  in  the  domain  of  psychology, 
and  all  of  it  in  sociology.  This  delightful  elasticity  and  inclusiveness 
of  our  several  sciences  is  not  altogether  regrettable.  The  cross-fire 
to  which  a  proposition  that  falls  within  these  overlapping  spheres  of 
influence  is  subjected,  compels  a  certain  agility  and  alertness  not 
incident  to  the  study  of  closely  isolated  and  definitely  limited 
sciences. 

It  is  possible  that  the  use  made  in  this  paper  of  the  term  "  ethnic 
mind  **  may  not  be  acceptable  to  experimental  psychologists.  While 
not  in  accord  with  the  extreme  views  of  many  European  scholars 
on  this  subject,  I  accept  the  opinions  of  Wundt  and  Brinton  that 
ethnic  psychology  is  a  valid  science  —  a  branch  of  the  great  un- 
mapped field  of  anthropology  that  awaits  close  investigation.  The 
hypothesis  of  an  ethnic  mind  is  most  serviceable  in  the  study  of 
culture  history,  constructive  sociology,  and  race  pedagogy.  Any 
needed  justification  of  its  use  will,  I  hope,  be  accomplished  as  we 
examine  causes  and  conditions  of  ethnic  development 

It  is  a  trite  saying  that  "  the  teacher  must  understand  human 
nature,"  but  we  do  not  always  consider  the  vast  significance  of  that 
requirement.  It  presupposes  all  the  usually  expected  knowledge  of 
man  as  an  individual,  with  all  his  physiologic  and  psychic  characters 
and  the  immediate  effect  thereon  of  meteorologic  and  dietetic  in- 
fluences. It  demands  an  understanding  of  the  modifications  affected 
by  society  on  individual  psychic  states.  Furthermore,  it  requires  a 
comprehension  of  the  environmental  influences  that  have  worked 
through  the  ages  to  affect  man's  distribution  over  the  globe,  to  con- 
trol his  occupations  and  social  organization,  and  to  compel  the 
thoughts  which  dominated  his  primitive  life  and  fixed  in  every  group 
of  savage  men  a  unified,  collective,  psychic  state.  The  individual 
was  a  cipher.  He  lived,  worked,  thought,  prayed  as  did  his  tribe. 
Nature  was  as  regardless  of  the  individual  in  humanity  as  in  the  lower 
life  forms.  An  ethnic  mind,  an  ethnic  character,  a  race  of  men  was 
the  goal.  Fixed  environmental  conditions  compelled  men  to  certain 
activities,  to  certain  beliefs  and  customs,  equally  coercive  whether 


4  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

true  or  false,  good  or  bad.  Such  was  the  fatalistic  yet  effective 
discipline  by  which  nature  shaped  men  into  ethnic  groups,  by  virtue 
of  which  we  have  Hun  or  Gaul,  or  Apache  or  Hopi.  Such  was  the 
origin  of  ethnic  mind —  "a  blind,  unreasoning,  natural  force"  that 
rules  primitive  men  absolutely  and  to  a  marked  degree  dominates 
the  acts  of  civilized  nations.  The  investigation  of  these  phenomena 
is  the  province  of  anthropology;  the  determination  of  their  use  in 
education  is  the  province  of  pedagogy. 

The  teaching  of  forty  children  of  a  single  race  is  a  compara- 
tively simple  problem.  But  the  teacher  in  an  American  city  school 
may  have  under  her  instruction  representatives  of  half  a  score  of 
ethnic  divisions  with  ethno-psychic  characteristics  that  are  as  distinc- 
tive as  are  their  physical  differences.  The  work  of  the  teacher  is  to 
Americanize  all  these  elements ;  to  inculcate  our  best  ideals  of  per- 
sonal and  civic  righteousness ;  to  eradicate  as  far  as  possible  ideals 
that  are  foreign  or  adverse  to  our  own.  This  is  a  complex  process. 
The  street  does  its  part.  The  general  exercises  of  school  and  class 
advance  the  unifying  process.  That  day  is  lost  in  which  the  teacher 
finds  no  occasion  for  upholding  some  ideal  of  lofty  patriotism,  of 
civic  virtue,  of  family  life,  of  personal  honor.  But  daily  the  neces- 
sity arises  for  dealing  directly  with  individuals  who  fail  to  come  under 
the  influence  of  the  collective  spirit,  with  whom  lawlessness  (which 
may  be  a  misunderstanding  of  our  social  order),  or  incipient  crime 
(which  may  be  but  lack  of  comprehension  of  our  ideals  of  decency) 
and  the  disasters  incident  to  conflict  with  law  or  prevailing  ethical 
sense,  seem  inevitable.  The  teacher  must  know  that  Italian  and 
Bohemian,  and  Celt  and  Hebrew,  and  Anglo-Saxon  and  African 
look  upon  questions  of  honor,  morality,  and  decency  out  of  separate 
ethnic  minds  under  the  coercion  of  centuries  of  fixed  racial  customs 
and  ideals.  What  is  to  us  criminal  tendency  may  be  but  a  survival 
of  a  custom  which,  in  the  view  of  a  more  primitive  race,  was  a  strictly 
moral  act.  Much  that  we  call  evil,  malevolent,  was  in  primitive 
mind  altogether  beneficent.  What  is  to  us  an  indecent  act  is  often 
in  primitive  practice  a  religious  rite.  A  case  of  stubborn  resistance 
to  a  necessary  truth  may  be  a  matter  of  racial  difference  of  opinion. 
So  countless  perplexing  problems  of  the  teacher  root  in  ethnic  mind 
and  can  be  solved  only  when  the  ethnic  factors  in  the  equation  are 


HEWETT]  ^.THNIC  FACTORS  IN  EDUCATION  5 

duly  considered  and  the  inheritance  from  savagery  or  foreign  national 
life  is  given  its  proper  value. 

Before  considering  further  the  educational  aspects  of  the  sub- 
ject, let  us  inquire  into  some  fundamental  causes  of  static  racial  con- 
ditions. As  previously  indicated  in  this  paper  this  must  be  primarily 
an  inquiry  into  the  influence  of  physiographic  environment  on  the 
human  mind. 

Dr  Edwin  G.  Dexter  has  shown,  in  an  eminent  contribution  to 
psychological  knowledge,  the  influence  of  definite  meteorological  con- 
ditions on  mental  states.  These  researches  pertain  to  the  immediate 
psychic  response  to  weather  influences,  and  the  results  are  such  as 
to  suggest  an  important  application  in  the  study  of  racial  character 
development  under  the  influence  of  fixed  climatic  conditions.  I 
believe  that  Dexter's  method  might  be  extended  to  the  field  of  racial 
psychology  with  excellent  results. 

Ample  facilities  exist  for  the  study  of  this  subject  by  direct  ob- 
servational methods.  We  may  select  one  element  of  human  nature 
that  is  practically  universal,  namely,  the  religious  element,  and  see 
how  science  accounts  for  its  variations.  Race  religion  is  almost  as 
persistent  as  race  physiology.  All  people  have  beliefs  concerning 
the  supernormal.  Speaking  in  a  very  general  sense,  these  beliefs 
constitute  their  religion.  It  is  a  peculiarly  fruitful  field  of.  study, 
with  abundance  of  material  for  investigation.  The  religious  ideas 
of  primitive  men  are  preserved  in  myths,  in  symbolic  ornament,  in 
pictography  in  its  various  forms,  in  games,  the  interpretation  of  which 
calls  for  the  keenest  insight  of  which  the  anthropologist  is  capable. 
The  system  of  religious  thought  of  every  primitive  tribe  is  embodied 
in  ritual  which  can  be  studied  by  direct  observation. 

A  remarkable  series  of  field  studies  on  the  Hopi  Indians  of  Ari- 
zona by  Dr  J.  Walter  Fewkes  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnol- 
ogy, extending  over  a  period  of  twelve  years,  the  results  of  which 
are  embraced  in  numerous  contributions,  afford  such  a  comprehen- 
sive exposition  of  the  evolution  of  the  religion  of  one  primitive 
tribe  in  response  to  climatic  influences  that,  with  his  kind  permis- 
sion, I  quote  here  at  some  length  his  own  words  on  the  subject } 

'*  In  physical  features  this  province  [Tusayan]  is  a  part  of  the  great 
arid  zone  of  the  Rocky  mountains.     On  all  sides  it  is  isolated  by  a  dreary 

*  A  Study  of  Tnsayan  Ritual,  Smithsonian  Report^  J^S* 


6  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

extent  of  mountains,  mesas,  and  arid  plains  about  6,000  feet  above  the 
level  of  the  sea.  No  permanent  streams  of  water  refresh  these  parched 
canyons  or  fields,  and  the  surroundings  of  this  isolated  tribe,  organic  and 
inorganic,  belong  to  those  characteristic  of  desert  environment.  The  rains 
are  limited  in  quantity — ^liable  to  fail  at  planting  time.  Springs  of  perma- 
ent  water  are  small  and  weak.  .  .  .  Uncompromising  as  was  the  soil  for 
agriculture,  the  resources  of  the  hunter  were  much  less,  and  in  this  region 
man  was  forced  to  become  an  agriculturist.  .  .  .  He  adopted  the  life 
which  environment  dictated,  and  accepting  things  as  they  were,  worked 
out  his  culture  on  the  only  possible  lines  of  development. 

'*  Accepting  the  inevitable,  man's  ritual  became  a  mirror  of  that  part 
of  his  environment  which  most  intimately  affected  his  necessities.  The 
irregularity  of  the  rains,  and  the  possibility  that  the  corn  may  not  grow, 
developed  the  ritual  in  the  direction  indicated.  In  a  bountiful  soil  which 
never  fails  the  farmer,  where  the  seed  dropped  in  the  ground  is  sure  to 
germinate,  and  the  rains  are  constant,  no  ritual  would  originate  to  bring 
about  what  was  sure  to  come.  But  let  natural  processes  be  capricious, 
awake  in  a  primitive  mind  the  fear  that  these  processes  may  not  recur,  let 
him  become  conscious  that  the  rains  may  not  come,  and  he  evolves  a 
ritual  to  prevent  its  failure.  .  .  .  The  cults  of  a  primitive  people  are 
products  of  their  necessities.  .  .  .  The  two  needs  which  sorely  pressed 
the  Hopi  farmer  were  rain  to  water  his  crops  and  the  growth  and  matur- 
ity of  his  corn.  My  problem,  therefore,  is  to  show  by  illustrations  that 
the  two  components,  rain  making  and  growth  ceremonials,  characterize 
the  Tusayan  ritual,  as  aridity  is  the  epitome  of  the  distinctive  climatic 
features  of  the  region  in  which  it  has  been  developed.  .  .  . 

**  In  Tusayan  the  Great  Plumed  Serpent  is  a  powerful  deity  to  bring 
the  rain,  and  is  associated  with  lightning,  his  symbol.  By  simple  obser- 
vation the  untutored  mind  recognizes  that  rain  follows  lightning,  and 
what  more  natural  than  that  it  should  be  looked  upon  as  the  effect. 
He  therefore  warships  lightning  because  of  this  power.  The  course  of 
the  lightning  in  the  sky  is  zigzag  as  that  of  the  snake,  both  kill  when 
they  strike.  The  lightning  comes  from  the  sky,  the  abode  of  the  sun  and 
rain  god,  and  the  simple  reasoning  of  the  Tusayan  Indian  supposes  some 
connection  between  the  lightning,  snake  and  rain.  The  sustenance  of 
the  primitive  agriculturist  comes  from  the  earth,  and  if  the  soil  is  non- 
productive the  sun  and  rain  are  of  no  avail.  The  Tusayan  Indian  thus 
recognizes  the  potency  of  the  earth  and  symbolically  deifies  it  as  the 
mother.  Consequently  earth  goddesses  play  important  rdles  in  his  mythol- 
ogy. ...     No  better  ceremony  could  be  chosen  to  illustrate  the  effect 


HEWETT]  ETHNIC  FACTORS  IN  EDUCATION  7 

of  the  arid  environment  than  the  well-known  Snake  Dance,  the  most 
weird  rite  in  the  Tusayan  calendar.  This  dance  occurs  every  summer  on 
alternate  years  in  five  of  the  Tusayan  villages,  and  although  a  dramatiza- 
tion of  an  elaborate  sun-serpent  myth,  is  so  permeated  by  rain  ceremonials 
that  it  has  come  to  be  an  elaborate  prayer  for  rain.  .  .  . 

*'  The  reptiles  are  believed  to  be  elder  brothers  of  the  priests,  and 
they  are  gathered  from  the  fields  on  four  successive  days  to  participate  in 
the  ceremonies.  It  is  believed  that  these  reptiles  have  more  power  to  in- 
fluence supematiual  beings  than  man,  and  as  the  acme  of  the  whole  series 
of  nine  da]rs'  observances  they  are  thrown  in  a  heap  on  the  ground  in  a 
circle  of  sacred  meal,  and  the  chief  of  the  Antelopes  says  a  prayer  to  the 
struggling  mass,  after  which  they  are  seized  by  the  priests  and  carried. to 
the  fields  commissioned  to  intercede  with  rain  gods  to  send  the  desired 
rains.  In  fact,  the  whole  series  of  rites  which  make  up  the  snake  cele- 
bration is  one  long  prayer  of  nine  days'  duration.   .  .   . 

"Another  component  of  the  Tusayan  ritual  which  occurs  each  year 
in  the  month  following  that  in  which  the  Snake  Dance  occurs,  is  the 
ceremony  of  the  women  priests  for  the  maturation  of  the  com.  I  refer 
to  the  September  rites  called  the  Lalakonti,  celebrated  by  a  priesthood 
of  the  same  name. 

"The  ceremony  for  growth  of  the  crops,  which  is  practically  for 
the  harvest  of  maize,  is  directly  the  outgrowth  of  those  climatic  conditions 
which  have  made  the  Tusayan  people  agriculturists.  A  ^lure  of  this  crop 
means  starvation,  and  maize  is  far  from  a  spontaneous  growth  in  those 
desert  sands.  Hence  the  elaborate  nature  of  the  appeals  to  the  supernat- 
ural beings  which  control  this  function.  This  great  ceremony  is  natur- 
ally of  special  concern  to  women,  the  providers.  .   .  . 

"  The  influence  of  arid  climatic  conditions  is  shown  in  the  character 
and  intent  of  s3anbols.  The  conventional  figure  of  the  rain  clouds  and 
£dling  rain  is  depicted  more  than  any  other  on  various  paraphernalia  of 
worship.  It  is  painted  on  the  altars,  drawn  in  sacred  meal  on  the  floor  of 
his  sacred  rooms,  or  kivas,  embroidered  on  ceremonial  kilts.  ...  By  a 
natural  connection  it  is  often  replaced  by  figures  of  animals  or  plants  as- 
sociated with  water.  The  frog  and  tadpole  appear  when  the  rain  is  abun- 
dant, and  for  that  reason  the  priest  paints  the  figures  of  these  animals  on 
his  medicine  bowl,  or  places  effigies  of  it  on  the  altar.  .  .  .  The  dragon- 
fly which  hovers  over  the  springs,  the  cotton  wood  which  grows  near  the 
springs,  the  flag  which  loves  the  moist  places,  becomes  a  symbol  of  water. 
Water  itself  from  the  ocean  or  from  some  distant  spring,  in  his  concep- 
tion, are  all  powerful  agents  to  bring  moisture.     There  can  be  but  one 


8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

reason  for  this  —  the  aridity  of  his  surroundings.  The  clouds  from  which 
rain  falls  are  symbolized  by  the  smoke  from  the  pipe  in  his  ceremony,  and 
he  so  regards  them.  He  pours  water  on  the  heads  of  participants  in  cer- 
tain ceremonials,  hoping  that  in  the  same  way  rain  will  fall  on  his  parched 
fields.  Even  in  his  games  he  is  influenced  by  the  same  thought,  and  in 
certain  races  the  young  men  run  along  the  arroyos,  as  they  wish  the  water 
to  go  filled  to  their  banks.  .  .  . 

**  The  necessities  of  life  have  driven  man  into  the  agricultural  condi- 
tion and  the  aridity  of  the  climate  has  forced  him  to  devise  all  possible 
means  at  his  control  to  so  influence  his  gods  as  to  force  them  to  send  the 
rains  to  aid  him.  Wherever  we  turn  in  an  intimate  study  of  the  cere- 
monials of  the  Tusayan  Indians  we  see  the  imprint  of  the  arid  deserts  by 
which  they  are  surrounded,  always  the  prayer  for  abundant  crops  and 
rains  for  his  parched  fields. ' ' 

In  thus  attempting  to  epitomize  briefly  some  results  of  this 
investigation,  I  have  done  scant  justice  to  the  eminent  student 
who  conducted  it.  In  this  series  of  researches  principles  are  de- 
rived which  are  capable  of  wide  application.  There  is  no  reason 
to  doubt  that  the  same  method  will  show  that  primitive  social  organ- 
ization, economic  systems,  and  esthetic  life  are  in  great  measure 
results  of  definite  physiographic  environment. 

Everything  in  human  nature  must  be  regarded  as  a  product  of 
growth.  Ideas  and  ideals  that  have  been  rooted  for  ages  in  the 
ethnic  mind  can  not  and  should  not  be  eradicated  in  a  generation. 
Biology  has  demonstrated  that  no  appreciable  increment  of  brain 
power  can  be  effected  in  the  lifetime  of  an  individual.  Ethnology 
has  shown  how  ideals  of  religion,  of  welfare,  of  morals  that  have 
become  ingrained  in  racial  character,  along  with  color  of  skin  and 
shape  of  skull,  are  likewise  persistent  under  the  artificial  environ- 
ment of  civilization.  With  a  race  a  thousand  years  are  as  yester- 
day with  an  individual.     Nature  will  not  be  hurried. 

There  are  facts  that  are  particularly  applicable  to  the  great  task 
to  which  we  have  set  ourselves  in  the  education  of  alien  races. 
The  education  of  the  Indian  is  a  work  that  we  have  had  on  hand 
for  many  years,  and  much  diversity  of  opinion  exists  as  to  the  val- 
ue of  our  results.  Apparently  the  idea  of  educating  the  Indian 
away  from  his  native  environment  is  losing  ground.     The  trans- 


HEWITT]  ETHNIC  FACTORS  IN  EDUCATION  g 

planting  of  isolated  spedmens  of  primitive  races  to  a  totally  new  en- 
vironment has  never  been  productive  of  happy  results.  The  reser- 
vation Indian  school  is  successful  so  far  as  its  ideal  is  to  make  of  the 
Indians  better  Indians.  Unhappily,  Americanization  is  often  thought 
to  be  education. 

Probably  no  one  will  be  considered  better  qualified  to  express 
the  ideals  that  have  dominated  our  Indian  educational  policy  and  to 
speak  of  the  difficulties  which  have  beset  it  than  Dr  W.  H.  Hail- 
mann,  for  some  years  national  superintendent  of  Indian  schools. 
Dr  Hailmann  says^  (italics  are  mine)  : 

"There  can  be  no  doubt  that  an  education  which  inculcates  the  tastes 
and  establishes  the  ideals  of  current  civilization  constitutes  the  proper  first 
step  in  the  work  of  introducing  the  Indians  into  American  citizenship.  It 
is  equally  evident  that  the  cultivation  of  these  tastes  and  ideals  is  well  nigh 
impossible  under  the  conditions  and  influences  of  tribal  life  on  Indian 
reservations. 

"  The  mere  recital  of  a  few  of  the  leading  differences  between  the  two 
civilizations  will  sufficiendy  emphasize  these  difficulties.  The  Indian 
civilization  looks  upon  the  tribe  or  family  as  a  unit ;  with  us  it  is  the  indi- 
vidual. With  the  Indian  he  is  richest  who  gives  most ;  with  us  it  is  he 
who  keeps  most.  The  Indian  claims  hospitality  as  a  right  until  the  means 
of  the  host  are  exhausted  ;  and  this  hospitality  is  freely  granted.  To  the 
Indian  land  is  as  free  as  the  water  he  drinks ;  proprietorship  continues 
only  so  long  as  the  land  is  dlled  or  otherwise  in  use.  The  Indian  prizes 
the  worthless  pony,  whilom  his  companion  and  friend  in  the  lost  occupa- 
tions of  the  chase  and  war.  The  cow  is  to  him  only  a  poor  substitute  for 
the  buffalo ;  he  knows  nothing  of  her  value  as  a  giver  of  milk  and  a 
breeder  of  cattle.  Woman  in  Indian  civilization  is  a  producer  and  pos- 
sesses in  full  Indian  life  an  economic  7falue  and  independence  to  which  in 
our  ciinlization  she  is  largely  a  stranger.  His  religious  rights  and  cere- 
monies afford  the  Indian,  in  addition  to  a  certain  degree  of  spiritual  eleva- 
tion, opportunities  for  intense  social  enjoyment  for  which  he  looks  in  vain 
in  the  mw  civilization.  Add  to  this  that  the  wants  of  the  Indian  are  few 
and  easily  gratified  by  simple  forms  of  homely  skill  in  which  the  industries 
and  other  acquirements  of  the  Indian  school  find  little  application ;  that 
chiefs  and  medicine-men  in  the  very  nature  of  things  look  with  distrust 

*  Education  of  the  Indian  ;  Monographs  on  Education  in  the  United  States,  No. 
19.  by  W.  H.  Hailmann. 


lO  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  r90S 

and  disdain  upon  a  civilization  which  robs  them  of  power  and  influence  ; 
that  time-honored  tradition  imposes  upon  the  young  Indian  silence  and 
obedience, —  and  you  have  an  array  of  adverse  conditions  which  is 
appalling. 

**  Against  these  odds  the  Indian  schools  are  pitted.** 

Might  it  not  have  been  better  if  the  Indian  schools  had  never 
been  pitted  against  these  conditions  at  all,  but  rather,  devoted  to 
the  cultivation  of  just  what  could  be  found  in  the  Indian  that  was 
worthy  of  stimulation  ?  Like  ourselves,  the  Indian  possesses  many 
traits  that  are  worthy  of  the  highest  nurture  and,  like  ourselves, 
many  for  which  the  world  would  be  better  if  eradicated.  A  system 
of  practical  education  must  recognize  in  the  subjects  to  be  educated, 
potentialities  worthy  of  development.  If  such  potentialities  do  not 
exist,  then  education  will  be  futile.  That  the  Indian  is  a  worthy 
subject  for  education,  all  will  agree,  but  that  his  potentialities  are 
along  the  lines  of  our  peculiar  culture  is  not  disclosed  by  history  or 
ethnology.  He  takes  rather  kindly  to  education,  but  resists  the 
overthrow  of  his  religious  and  social  customs.  The  need  for  the 
overthrow  of  these  (with  few  exceptions)  is  not  apparent. 

I  know  of  no  persistent  attempt  on  the  part  of  government  or 
philanthropy  to  develop  the  inherent  Indian  character  by  stimulating 
him  to  the  perfection  of  his  own  arts,  his  own  social  institutions,  his 
own  religion,  his  own  literature.  When  the  Indian  wants  citizen- 
ship and  prays  for  absorption  into  the  body  politic,  then  will  be  time 
to  Americanize.  After  centuries  of  contact  with  us  he  chooses  to 
remain  an  Indian.  Candid  investigation  from  his  point  of  view  as 
well  as  ours  might  lead  us  to  approve  his  choice.  At  great  cost  to 
childhood  we  have  learned  that  about  all  we  can  do  for  the  young 
mind  is  to  stimulate,  direct,  accelerate,  or  retard  its  unfoldment. 
All  that  we  attempt  to  impose  on  it  that  is  foreign  to  its  nature  can 
only  work  to  its  detriment.  It  is  likewise  with  a  race  that  is  in  its 
childhood.  Its  development  must  be  from  within.  An  ethno-edu- 
cational  experimental  station  on  the  reservation  of  one  of  our  most 
isolated  tribes,  which  should  have  for  its  task  the  development  of 
Indian  character  (which  is  inherently  noble)  along  strictly  Indian 
lines  ought  in  a  few  generations  to  yield  us  definite  knowledge  on  the 
subject  of  educating  and  governing  primitive  races. 


hewett]  ethnic  factors  IN  EDUCATION  1 1 

We  are  now  attacking  an  ethno-educational  problem  of  enor- 
mous proportions,  the  education  of  some  millions  of  subjects  in 
the  Philippine  islands.  In  the  evolution  of  our  national  life,  our 
frontier  has  moved  westward  to  the  other  side  of  the  earth.  We 
are  in  possession  of  a  new  domain,  peopled  mainly  by  the  Malay 
race,  consisting  of  numerous  tribes,  in  every  stage  of  culture  from 
absolute  savagery  to  semi-civilization.  Of  these  ethnic  groups, 
none  of  which  approaches  the  Caucasian  race,  we  know  but  little. 
With  their  customs,  morals,  ideals,  religious  beliefs,  modes  of  rea- 
soning, which  have  arisen  and  become  ingrained  through  ages  of 
relation  to  definite  conditions,  we  are  just  beginning  to  become 
acquainted.  We  are  carrying  to  them  an  exotic  civilization,  devel- 
oped under  environment  as  different  from  theirs  as  it  is  possible  for 
this  planet  to  aflTord.  We  propose  to  prepare  them  for  self-govern- 
ment, and  to  that  end  have  placed  over  them,  in  slightly  modified 
form,  our  highly  specialized  American  public  school  system,  our 
only  guide  to  the  efficacy  of  this,  when  imposed  upon  other  races, 
being  the  results  of  our  experience  with  the  American  Indians. 

The  purposes  and  expectations  of  the  government  in  this  respect 
are  officially  set  forth  in  the  report  *  of  Dr  David  P.  Barrows,  Gen- 
eral Superintendent  of  Education  for  the  Philippine  islands,  under 
date  of  September  15,  1903. 

"The  definite  purposes  in  introducing  this  educational  system  are 
unique  in  the  history  of  colonial  administration.  Professedly,  openly, 
and  with  resolute  expectation  of  success,  the  American  Government 
avowed  its  intention  through  public  schools  to  give  to  every  inhabitant  of 
the  Philippine  islands  a  primary,  but  thoroughly  modem  education,  to 
thereby  fit  the  race  for  participation  in  self-government  and  for  every 
sphere  of  activity  offered  by  the  life  of  the  Far  East,  and  to  supplant  the 
Spanish  language  by  the  introduction  of  English  as  a  basis  of  education 
and  the  means  of  intercourse  and  communication.*' 

In  justification  of  this  purpose  Dr  Barrows  says  : 

*'  Such  an  educational  plan  would  never  have  been  practicable  had 
it  not  been  in  fact  the  demand  of  the  Filipino  people  themselves. 
Thoroughly  American  as  our  school  system  is,  it  represents  the  ideas 

*  Report  of  the  Philippine  Commiaion,  I903»  P^rt  III,  p.  694. 


12  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

which  theoretically  command  the  desires  of  the  Filipino.  His  request 
was  for  free,  secular  schools,  open  to  all  inhabitants  and  teaching  the 
English  tongue  and  the  elementary  branches  of  modern  knowledge." 
Again  we  are  told  that  the  Filipino  father  is  desirous  that  the  intellectual 
advance  of  his  child  ''  should  be  unaffected  by  ecclesiastical  control,  and 
that  the  instruction  of  the  church  shall  be  separate  from  that  of  the 
school.  .  .  .  For  common  intercourse,  as  well  as  for  education,  the  Fili- 
pino demands  a  foreign  speech.  To  confine  him  to  his  native  dialect 
would  be  simply  to  perpetuate  that  isolation  which  he  has  so  long  suf- 
fered and  against  which  his  insurrection  was  a  protest.  Opponents  of 
English  education  find  no  sympathizer  among  the  Filipino  people." 

These  desires,  if  accurately  portrayed,  reveal  on  the  part  of  the 
Filipino  people  a  profound  insight  into  the  causes  and  conditions  of 
both  individual  and  national  progress  —  an  intelligence  already 
equal  to  that  of  the  most  enlightened  nations,  and  diflficult  to  recon- 
cile with  other  statements  made  in  the  same  discussion,  of  which 
the  following  are  examples  : 

**  The  race  lends  itself  naturally  and  without  protest  to  the  blind  leader- 
ship and  cruel  oppression  of  its  aristocracy.  ...  It  is  in  these  rural 
spots  that  the  great  mass  of  the  population  finds  its  home.  These  are  the 
centers  of  ignorance,  the  resorts  and  recruiting  ground  for  the  ladrones, 
and  they  perpetuate  the  ignorance  and  poverty  of  the  race,  which  has  re- 
mained constant  for  three  hundred  years. '  * 

It  is  somewhat  difficult,  too,  to  share  the  buoyant  enthusiasm  of 
Dr  Barrows  for  the  value  of  the  English  language  to  the  Filipino  : 

"  It  is  without  rival  the  most  useful  language  which  a  man  can  know. 
It  will  be  more  used  within  the  next  ten  years,  and  to  the  Filipino  the 
possession  of  English  is  the  gateway  into  that  busy  and  fervid  life  of 
commerce,  of  modern  science,  of  diplomacy  and  politics  in  which  he 
aspires  to  shine.  Knowledge  of  English  is  more  than  this  —  it  is  a  pos- 
session as  valuable  to  the  humble  peasant  for  his  social  protection  as  it  is 
to  the  man  of  wealth  for  his  social  distinction.  If  we  can  give  the 
Filipino  husbandman  a  knowledge  of  the  English  language,  and  even  the 
most  elemental  acquaintance  with  English  writings,  we  will  free  him  from 
that  degraded  dependence  upon  the  man  of  influence  of  his  own  race 
which  made  possible  not  only  insurrection  but  that  fairly  unparalleled 
epidemic  of  crime  which  we  have  seen  in  these  islands  during  the  past 
few  years.  *  * 


HEWETT]  ETHNIC  FACTORS  IN  EDUCATION  1 3 

The  above  statement  of  occupations  in  which  the  Filipino  aspires 
to  shine  should  be  considered  in  connection  with  the  following  state- 
ments as  pointing  to  some  obvious  conclusions  concerning  him  as  a 
subject  for  education : 

''  American  investors  and  promoters  in  the  Philippines  at  the  present 
moment  are  deeply  disgusted  with  the  Filipino  as  a  laborer  and  are  clam- 
orous for  the  introduction  of  Chinese  coolies.  They  claim  that  the  Fili- 
pino hates  and  despises  labor  for  itself,  will  not  keep  a  laboring  contract, 
and  cannot  be  procured  on  any  reasonable  terms  for  various  enterprises  in 
which  Americans  desire  to  invest  effort  and  money.  When,  however,  we 
looked  a  litde  more  closely  into  the  demands  of  these  men,  it  is  apparent 
that  what  they  really  want  here  is  a  great  body  of  unskilled  labor,  depen- 
dent for  living  upon  its  daily  wage,  willing  to  work  in  great  gangs,  submis- 
sive to  the  rough  handling  of  a  boss,  and  ready  to  leave  home  and  family 
and  go  anywhere  in  the  islands  and  to  labor  at  day  wages  under  condi- 
tions of  hours  and  methods  of  labor  set  by  their  foreign  employers  .  .  . 
Now,  the  Filipino  detests  labor  under  these  conditions.  It  is  probably 
true  that  he  will  not  work  in  a  gang  under  a  <  boss,'  subjected  to  condi- 
tions of  labor  which  appear  to  him  unnecessarily  harsh  and  onerous. ' ' 

These  are  interesting  conditions,  pointing  to  entirely  different 
lines  of  development  from  those  possible  to  the  Chinese  and 
Japanese  and  to  a  commercial  civilization,  with  a  leaning  to  science, 
diplomacy,  and  politics,  yet  unsupported  by  any  sturdy  laboring 
class  comparable  to  our  Irish  and  Italian  citizens  who  have  made 
possible  our  vast  mining,  railroad  building,  and  other  great  con- 
structive enterprises. 

It  must  be  admitted  that  our  present  knowledge  of  the  Filipino 
does  not  warrant  very  deep  convictions  with  reference  to  his  future 
possibilities.  His  habitat  is  the  zone  that  has  not  produced  sturdy 
civilized  races.  Climate  and  physiography  are  decidedly  against 
him.  He  is  of  a  race,  the  Malay,  that  has  as  yet  produced  no 
strong  ascendant  ethnic  groups.  Ethnology  has  little  to  promise 
in  his  favor. 

There  is  really  much  in  science  and  history  to  guide  us  in  this 
matter  —  enough  to  teach  us  that  it  is  questionable  whether  we  can 
prepare  any  primitive  people  for  self-government  by  placing  them 
under  our  institutions.     Every  nation  on  the  globe  that  is  fit  for 


14  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

self-government  prepared  itself  for  it  by  centuries  of  racial  experi- 
ence. 

I  do  not  wish  to  be  understood  as  being  opposed  to  an  educa- 
tional policy  for  the  Philippine  islands,  but  I  do  regard  it  as  prema- 
ture and  wasteful  to  establish-  there  a  public  school  system  in  ad- 
vance of  any  considerable  scientific  knowledge  of  the  mind  and 
character  of  the  Malay  race.  A  number  of  educational  experi- 
ment stations  there,  where  for  some  years  educational  policy,  based 
on  the  ascertained  capability  and  desires  of  the  people,  could  be 
carefully  wrought  out  and  the  best  of  their  young  people  stimu- 
lated to  lead  in  their  intellectual  and  social  life,  thus  developing 
such  inherent  qualities  of  leadership  as  may  exist,  would  be  eco- 
nomical and  sensible,  would  determine  if  there  are  any  strong 
ascendant  ethnic  groups  and  develop  the  methods  by  which 
the  racial  potentialities  could  be  brought  out.  Such  a  policy  is 
fraught  with  no  possibility  of  injustice  to  our  subjects.  These 
people  have  waited  some  thousands  of  years  for  Americanism. 
Let  us  not  inaugurate  another  "  century  of  dishonor"  by  malprac- 
tice on  another  alien  race.  There  is  really  no  cause  for  haste.  It 
is  hardly  time  to  put  the  Filipinos  to  school  to  us.  Let  us  go  to 
school  to  them  for  a  while.  We  can  learn  much  from  them  that 
will  be  for  their  good  and  ours.  We  should  study  the  social  order, 
the  religious  beliefs,  the  ethnic  mind  of  these  subjects,  and  accept 
the  fact  tliat  we  have  here  a  problem  in  which  we  must  count  re- 
sults by  generations  and  not  by  years. 

These  are  conditions  which  suggest  a  wide  extension  of  the  func- 
tions of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology  and  of  the  Bureau  of  Edu- 
cation. Our  vast  educational  interests  call  for  some  constructive 
statesmanship.  The  present  system  is  wasteful  and  inefficient.  Edu- 
cation in  the  Philippines  was  organized  by  the  War  Department  and 
is  conducted  by  the  Philippine  Commission.  The  Office  of  Indian 
Affairs  shapes  a  policy  of  Indian  education.  The  Bureau  of  Edu- 
cation takes  care  of  all  educational  interests  not  otherwise  let  out. 
It  is  difficult  to  understand  how,  under  any  consideration  of  effi- 
ciency, economy,  or  businesslike  management,  such  a  system 
should  be  tolerated.  This  condition  is  best  known  to  those  who 
have  been  intimately  connected  with  it.  I  quote  again  from  Dr 
Hailmann's  monograph  on  Indian  Education  : 


HEWETT]  ETHNIC  FACTORS  IN  EDUCATION  1 5 

"The  direction  and  supervision  of  the  Indian  schools  rest  with  the 
Indian  office  which,  in  its  turn,  is  under  the  direction  and  supervision  of 
the  Secretary  of  the  Interior.  In  the  Indian  office  the  details  of  the  work 
are  intrusted  to  the  education  division,  now  probably  the  most  important 
division  under  its  control.  The  education  division  consists  of  a  chief 
clerk,  with  a  corps  of  subordinate  clerks,  stenographers  and  copyists.  To 
this  division  all  reports  are  made ;  by  it  all  directions  and  orders  are 
drafted  and  issued. 

"  The  education  division  is  aided  in  its  work  by  the  superintendent 
of  Indian  schools  and  by  five  supervisors,  assigned  in  their  work  to  five 
districts  respectively.  These  officials  constitute  a  branch  of  the  Indian 
school  service  which  occupies  a  very  uncertain  position,  which  can  be 
designated  neither  as  subordinate  nor  as  coordinate,  and  which  in  its 
effectiveness  depends  wholly  on  the  force  of  character  of  the  incumbents 
and  the  good  will  of  the  commissioner.  They  have  duties,  but  no  rights ; 
and  even  their  efforts  to  perform  these  duties  may  be  rendered  practically 
nugatory  by  the  ill-will  of  the  education  division  or  of  the  commissioner. '  * 

This  is  a  statement  of  the  condition  in  one  of  our  several  great 
uncorrelated  departments  of  education.  The  American  people 
claim  to  have  supreme  confidence  in  our  democratic  educational 
system.  They  would  look  with  favor  upon  a  more  definite  recog- 
nition of  education  by  the  national  government,  and  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  educational  system  upon  an  equal  footing  with  commerce, 
agriculture,  and  war.  No  executive  department  of  government  has 
in  its  care  interests  more  vast  and  important  than  our  combined 
educational  interests  would  be.  The  organization  of  these  interests 
demands  the  elevation  of  the  Bureau  of  Education  to  the  status  of 
an  executive  department. 

The  conclusions  of  this  paper  may  be  summarized  as  follows  : 

1 .  Ethnic  mind,  character,  ideals,  and  motives  are  developed  pri- 
marily by  definite  physiographic  conditions  of  age-long  duration. 
Ethnic  traits  persist  through  generations  of  new  influences.  This 
fact  is  of  vital  importance  to  teachers  in  the  management  of  indi- 
vidual cases. 

2.  The  development  of  a  race  must  be  from  within.  A  civiliza- 
tion imposed  from  without  is  usually  harmful,  often  destructive, 
and  always  undesirable.  This  fact  is  the  keynote  to  all  that  should 
be  attempted  by  way  of  educating  alien  races. 


l6  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

3.  Normal  schools  and  other  institutions  for  the  training  of 
teachers  should  give  a  prominent  place  to  anthropological  sciences. 

4.  A  rational  educational  policy  for  the  various  primitive  races 
now  under  our  care  must  be  based  on  specific  scientific  knowledge 
of  racial  mind  and  character.  This  suggests  a  wide  extension  of  the 
functions  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology  and  the  establish- 
ment of  ethno-educational  experiment  stations. 

5.  Our  national  educational  interests  have  been  greatly  increased 
and  complicated  by  the  acquisition  of  new  races.  The  system  of 
distributing  these  interests  among  unrelated  departments  is  wasteful 
and  inefficient  and  calls  for  the  organization  of  an  executive  Depart- 
ment of  Education. 


PREHISTORIC   SURGERY  — A  NEOLITHIC  SURVIVAL 

By  GEORGE  GRANT  MACCURDY 

Our  knowledge  of  prehistoric  surgery  is  limited  to  operations  tha 
afiected  the  bony  tissue.  One  of  the  best  known  and  most  remark- 
able operations  performed  by  our  neolithic  ancestors  is  without 
question  that  df  trepanation,  the  evidence  of  their  skill  and  success 
in  the  use  of  rude  instruments  being  nothing  short  of  marvelous. 

The  object  of  this  paper  is  to  call  attention  to  a  peculiar  type  of 
prehistoric  surgery  having  certain  points  in  common  with  trepan- 
ning, and  which  have  been  brought  to  light  during  the  last  decade. 
So  far  as  at  present  known,  this  type  occurs  in  France  over  a  limited 
area  lying  to  the  north  of  Paris,  between  the  Seine  and  the  Oise. 
The  history  of  the  series  of  discoveries,  as  well  as  of  Prof.  L.  Man- 
ouvrier's  successive  observations  and  attempts  at  an  explanation  until 
finally  the  correct  solution  was  reached,  forms  an  interesting  chapter 
in  methods  of  arriving  at  scientific  facts. 

The  crania  bearing  marks  of  the  operation  in  question  are  not 
only  from  a  limited  area,  but  are  also  from  dolmens  belonging  to 
the  neolithic  period.  The  Dolmen  de  la  Justice  at  Epone,  near 
Mantes  (Seine-et-Oise),  had  been  known  since  1833 — in  fact  so 
long  that,  owing  to  its  dilapidated  condition,  it  was  supposed  to  have 
been  already  robbed  of  its  contents.  However,  M.  Perrier  du 
Came,  of  Mantes,  thought  it  worth  while,  in  188 1,  to  obtain  from 
the  owner,  Madame  Piot,  a  permit  to  excavate,  and  was  very  much 
surprised  to  find  the  sepulture  intact.  In  addition  to  pottery,  stone 
implements,  and  ornaments,  he  obtained  portions  of  about  sixty  skele- 
tons, including  twelve  crania.  Professor  Manouvrier,  to  whom  the 
human  bones  were  referred  for  examination,  observed  that  three  of 
the  female  crania  were  marked  by  curious  and  similar  mutilations  in 
the  region  of  the  vertex.  In  every  case  the  cicatrice  is  T-shaped. 
The  antero-posterior  branch  begins  just  above  the  anterior  curve  of 
the  frontal,  extends  along  the  sagittal  suture,  and  terminates  near 
the  obelion    where  the  transverse  branch  is  encountered.      The 

AM.  AKTM^  n.  s.,  7 — a. 


? 

I 


1 8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

latter  descends  on  either  side  to  a  point  back  of  the  parietal  pro- 
tuberances. The  scars  are  evidently  the  result  of  lesions  of  the 
scalp  made  during  life,  and  deep  enough  to  affect,  directly  or  indi- 
rectly, the  periosteum. 

Searching  through  the  Broca  collection,  Manouvrier  found  three 
other  examples  of  the  cicatrice  in  T,  and  all  three  on  feminine  subjects. 
They  came  from  three  dolmens  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  dolmen 
of  Epone,  namely,  Vaureal,  Conflans-Sainte-Honorine,  and  Feigneux, 
all  in  the  department  of  Seine-et-Oise.  In  one  of  these  three  cases 
the  cicatrice  was  very  slight,  in  another  the  diploe  was  uncovered 
by  either  the  wound  or  the  suppuration. 

In  every  instance  the  lines  forming  the  T  were  broken  at  inter- 
vals, giving  the  appearance  of  successive  operations.  The  operation 
on  the  scalp,  however,  may  have  been  performed  at  one  time  and 
in  a  continuous  line  without  affecting  the  skull  at  all  points.  None 
of  the  crania  presents  pathological  characters.  As  to  the  meaning 
of  these  marks,  Manouvrier  suggested  that  an  explanation  might  be 
found  in  practices  connected  with  religion,  war,  penal  justice,  mourn- 
ing, therapeutics,  or  coiffure.  While  admitting  that  the  peculiar 
shape  of  the  scar  might  be  due  to  the  hieratic  value  attributed  to 
T,  he  expresses  preference  for  a  simpler  and  more  rational  explana- 
tion. What  could  be  more  simple,  for  instance,  than  to  suppose  that 
a  surgical  operation  on  the  scalp  should  follow  the  natural  partings 
of  the  hair.  One  of  these  is  the  median  line  from  the  forehead  to 
the  whorl  at  the  crown  ;  the  other  descends  laterally  from  the  crown 
on  either  side,  and  they  account  for  a  feminine  fashion  of  combing 
the  hair  which  is  still  in  use. 

Dolmens  to  the  north  of  Paris  and  within  a  radius  of  50  kilo- 
meters were  searched  for  further  examples,  and  they  were  soon 
forthcoming.  Of  eighteen  crania  found  by  M.  Fouju  in  the  dolmen 
of  Menouville,  near  Tlsle  d'Adam  (Seine-et-Oise),  one  bore  the 
antero-posterior  branch  of  the  lesion  in  question,  one  was  marked 
by  an  enigmatical  oval  scar  in  the  region  of  the  bregma  (evidently 
to  be  classed  as  a  variation  of  the  same  general  type  of  operation), 
and  three  were  unquestioned  cases  of  trepanation  —  a  large  per- 
centage for  a  sepulture  containing  not  more  than  forty  skeletons. 
The  reduction  of  the  so-called  "sincipital  T"  to  a  line  in  the  one 


MACCCiLDY]  PREHISTORIC  SURGERY  19 

instance  and  to  an  oval  in  the  other  led  Manouvrier  to  substitute 
for  the  name  first  chosen  that  of  "  sincipital  marks  "  ;  and  the  pres- 
ence in  the  same  dolmen  of  crania  thus  scarred,  in  juxtaposition 
with  trepanned  crania,  supported  his  favorite  hypothesis  that  the 
sincipital  marks  were,  like  trepanation,  the  result  of  therapeutic 
treatment. 

Vemeau's  description^  of  certain  skull  fragments  from  the 
Dolmen  des  Mureaux,  published  five  years  before  the  discovery  of 
the  Epone  specimens,  when  viewed  in  the  light  of  Manouvrier's 
contributions,  is  invested  with  a  new  interest.  The  fact  that  the 
fragments  of  a  right  parietal  and  a  left  parietal  were  "  trepanned  " 
along  the  line  of  the  sagittal  suture,  points  to  the  most  persistent 
feature  of  the  sincipital  markings  in  question.  One  operation  would 
account  for  both,  in  case  the  two  pieces  could  be  referred  to  the  same 
skull.  The  strength  of  the  supposition  would  not  be  impaired  even 
if  they  belonged  to  different  skulls.  It  might  be  worth  while  to 
reexamine  these  fragments,  particularly  as  the  allee  couverte  des  Mu- 
reaux is  situated  near  the  dolmens  that  furnished  all  the  specimens 
described  by  Manouvrier  in  a  series  of  papers  the  titles  of  which 
appear  in  the  appended  list  of  references. 

As  regards  the  methods  employed  in  the  operation,  Manouvrier 
had  this  to  say  in  1902  : 

"L'hypoth^se  d'une  cauterisation  par  brfilure  ou  autrement  me 
parait  fttre  la  plus  satisfaisante  et  corrobor^e  par  T existence  non  douteuse 
chez  la  peuplade  n^olithique  qui  v^cut  entre  la  Seine  et  TOise,  de  chirur- 
giens  dont  les  ressources  th^rapeutiques  ne  debaient  pas  Stre  bom^es  a  la 
terrible  trepanation.** 

The  oval  scar  in  the  region  of  the  bregma  cited  above  recalls 
precisely  similar  ones  observed  by  von  Luschan,^  of  Berlin,  on 
ancient  Guanche  crania  from  the  island  of  Teneriffe.  Of  the  210 
Teneriffe  crania  in  the  museums  of  Berlin,  Leipzig,  and  Braunschweig, 
25  have  suffered  scarification  in  the  region  of  the  grand  fontanelle, 
two  of  these  being  completely  perforated  by  the  operation  or  as  a 
result  of  it.  Von  Luschan  regarded  the  operation  as  surgical  and 
related  to  trepanning  proper.     In  his  opinion  the  bone  was  removed 

I  R.  Vcmeau.  L'allee  couverte  des  Mureaux  ;  V anthropologies  1890,  i,  I57- 
'  Vtrhandl,  Berliner  Ges.  f.  Anthr.y  1896,  p.  65. 


20  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

by  scraping.  To  show  that  similar  results  could  be  obtained  by  the 
use  of  a  counter-irritant,  Virchow  produced  the  skull  of  a  patient 
who  was  treated  about  the  year  1846  at  the  Charity  Hospital  (in- 
sane ward),  Berlin.  When,  as  a  young  man,  Virchow  ^  was  assis- 
tant at  the  Hospital,  Professor  Ideler,  the  physican  in  charge,  often 
applied  tartar-emetic  ointment  (Brechweinsiein-Salbe)  to  the  scalp  of 
demented  patients  in  order  to  drive  out  supposed  inflammation. 
The  unguent  caused  suppuration  that  occasionally  attacked  the 
skull  even  to  the  extent  of  producing  a  perforation. 

Von  Luschan  was  the  first  to  point  out  the  analogy  between 
the  oval  lesions  on  the  crania  from  the  Canary  islands  and  the 
T-shaped  lesions  on  neolithic  crania.  This  analogy  became  all  the 
more  evident  with  Manouvrier's  description  of  the  two  Menouville 
crania,  calling  forth  a  timely  article  by  Lehmann-Nitsche  ^  in  which 
he  quotes  from  the  ancient  chroniclers  of  the  Canaries  as  cited  by 
Chil  y  Naranjo.^    The  passage  describing  the  operation  is  as  follows  : 

"They  made  large  scarifications  with  their  stone  knives  on  the  skin  of 
the  part  affected,  and  then  cauterized  the  wound  with  roots  of  Malacca 
cane  {Jonc)  dipped  in  boiling  grease ;  preference  being  given  to  the 
use  of  goat's  grease." 

Almost  coincident  with  the  appearance  of  Lehmann-Nitsche's 
paper,  Manouvrier  had  the  good  fortune  to  find  in  a  recent  work 
by  M.  Auguste  Brachet,*  quotations  from  ancient  books  on  surgery 
that  not  only  serve  as  an  explanation  of  the  sincipital  marks  on 
neolithic  crania,  but  also  prove  that  similar  operations  were  per- 
formed during  the  Dark  Ages  by  the  successors  of  Galen. 

The  texts  are : 

(i)  Under  the  title  **  Purgatio  capitis";  Avicenna.  Canon  I, 
III,  tr.  4.  cap.  X  (T.  i,  p.  485,  col.  i):  "  De  cura  Melancholiae  et 
quandoque  opportet  ut  caput  ejus  secundum  crucem  cauterizetur  si  nihil 
aliud  confert.  * ' 


^VirhLy  etc.,  p.  327. 

'  Notes  sur  des  lesions  de  cr&nes  des  lies  Canaries  analogues  2L  celles  du  cr&ne  de 
Menouville  et  leur  interprttation  probable  ;  Bull,  et  mini,  de  la  Soc,  d^anthr,  de  PariSy 

1903.  P-  492. 

'  M6moire  sur  I'origine  des  Guanches  ou  habitants  primitifs  des  lies  Canaries  ;  Con^r. 
itttem.  des  Sciences  anthropologiques  tenu  d  Paris  du  16  au  21  aoHty  iSySy  pp.  167-220. 

^ Pathologie  mentale  des  rois  de  France:  Louis  XI  et  ses  ascendants ;  Paris, 
Hachette,  1903. 


22  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Manouvrier  on  the  occasion  of  his  recent  visit  to  America,  is  from 
the  dolmen  of  ChampignoUes  (Seine-et-Oise).  Like  all  but  one  or 
two  of  the  seven  or  eight  previously  noted,  it  is  that  of  a  female.  The 
character  of  the  lesions  indicate  that  they  were  made  in  early  life. 
In  the  first  place  there  is  the  sincipital  T  with  a  medial  branch  13 
centimeters  long,  not  perfectly  straight  but  continuous.  It  is  narrow, 
and  suggests  an  incision  of  the  periosteum  rather  than  a  cauteriza- 
tion. The  short  transverse  groove  terminates  at  either  extremity  in 
an  oval  pit  large  enough  to  hold  the  ball  of  the  thumb.  The  one 
on  the  right  actually  penetrates  the  skull,  forming  a  perforation  3  to 
4  millimeters  in  diameter  with  sharp  margins.  Near  the  latter,  and 
in  a  line  with  the  transverse  groove,  is  an  extensive  lesion,  6  centi- 
meters in  diameter,  with  irregular,  oval  contour.  The  central  per- 
foration is  of  the  same  shape,  and  fully  3  centimeters  in  diameter. 
In  aspect,  whatever  the  intention  of  the  operator  may  have  been,  it 
is  a  veritable  trepanation.  Of  the  bony  area  attacked,  almost  one- 
half  was  completely  destroyed.  The  perforation  is  surrounded  by 
a  zone  of  practically  uniform  width,  composed  of  the  inner  compact 
layer  of  the  skull  wall ;  and  beyond  this  zone  rises  the  surrounding 
rim  measured  in  height  by  the  thickness  of  the  external  compact 
layer.  The  irregular  outlines  are  not  such  as  would  be  produced 
by  cutting,  sawing,  or  scraping.  There  is  still  another  oval  cicatrice 
to  be  noted.  It  is  sufficient  in  size  to  lodge  the  tip  of  the  little  fin- 
ger ;  is  on  the  frontal  bone  3  centimeters  to  the  right  of  the  medial 
incision,  and  does  not  amount  to  a  perforation. 

That  these  oval  lesions  are  the  result  of  cauterization  would  be 
evident  even  without  the  support  of  the  ancient  authors  whose 
documentary  evidence  must  have  come  as  an  agreeable  surprise  to 
the  finder  —  all  the  more  so  because  it  was  unexpected.  It  would 
seem  incredible  were  it  not  for  the  fact  that  any  primitive  art  is  apt 
to  remain  unchanged  until  transformed  by  the  growth  of  its  com- 
plementary science.  When  we  consider  what  scientific  limitations 
are  imposed  on  the  twentieth  century  art  of  healing  nervous  and 
mental  diseases,  there  is  little  wonder  that  Avicenna,  Albucasis,  et 
al.  should  have  made  so  little  progress  over  the  neolithic  surgeons. 
Rather  do  the  latter  command  anew  our  admiration  because  of  their 
skill   and  courage.     Their  success,  too,  may  be  measured  by  the 


PRBHISrORlC  SURGER  Y 


23 


that  survived  treatment,  even  if  they  were  not  cured. 
•f  had  courage  in  daring  to  operate  on  cases  that  would  now 
led  as  hopeless  seems  to  be  abundantly  attested  by  the 
Tiolles  example,  where  the  hardihood  of  the  surgeon  was 
equaled  by  the  fortitude  of  the  patient, 
t  could  better  explain  the  marks  on  these  skulls,  espe- 
e  one  from  ChampignoUes,  than  Avicenna's  prescription 
inchoUa :  "  When  nothing  else  avails,  the  head  is  to  be 
■A  in  the  form  of  a  cross" ;  or  that  of  Albucasis  for  the 
lease,  which  is  even  more  explicit :  "  When  there  is  a  ten- 
ward  hypochondria,  the  cautery  is  to  be  applied  lightly  but 
rous  points.  .  .  .  This  kind  of  cauterization  restores  to  the 
normal  humidity."  For  epilepsy,  the  same  authority  says 
:erize  on  the  vertex,  on  the  occiput,  and  on  the  frontal  pro- 
es"  (forehead).  Cephalalgia  being  caused,  as  he  thought, 
:ces3  of  cold  and  humidity  in  the  brain,  the  proper  corrcc- 
Id  be  found  in  heat,  and  the  resulting  noisome  vapors  would 
exhalation  through  the  points  cauterized.  Such  was  the 
of  Albucasis,  and  it  tallies  perfectly  with  neolithic  practice. 

Tke  Htt  of  papers  by  Professor  Matwuvrier. 
It  T  sincipital  —  Curieuse  mutilation  crinienne  neolithique. 
c.  d'antkr.  de  Paris.  1895,  4*  ser.,  vi,  357  (see  also  p.  273). 
onjectures   sur   le   T   sincipital,    mutilation   prehistorique. 
'anf.  p.  I'av.  des  sciences,  Bordeaux,  1895,  p.  712. 
[ouvelle  mutilation  cranienne  neolithique.     Le  T  sincipital. 
nsuelle  de  I'Mcole  d'anthr.  de  Paris,  1896,  vi,  57. 
tote  sur  un  cas  de  T  sincipital  incomplet  et  sur  une  autre 
ligmadque  du  crane.     Bxdl.  et  mem.,  Soc.  d'anthr.  de  Paris, 
'  ser..  Ill,  601. 

<s  marques  sindpitales  des  cranes  neolithiques  considerees 

reliant  la  chirurgie  classique  ancienne  a  la  chirurgie  pr^his- 

Ibid.,  1903,  5'  ser.,  iv,  494.     (See  also  Revue  de  I'^ole 

'pologie  de  Paris,  1903,  xii,  431,  and  I'Assoc.  fran^aise  p. 


THE  SEX-COMPOSITION  OF  HUMAN  FAMILIES 

By  JOHN  BENJAMIN  NICHOLS 

It  is  the  purpose  of  this  paper  to  present  the  results  of  a  study 
of  the  sex-composition,  that  is,  the  number  of  sons  and  daughters, 
respectively,  of  3,000  human  families  of  six  or  more  children  each. 

The  data  for  this  study  were  obtained  from  the  genealogical 
records  presented  in  the  History  of  Hingham^  Massachusetts ^  pub- 
lished by  the  town  ;  in  S.  Judd's  History  of  Hadley^  Massachusetts ; 
in  D.  M.  Hoyt's  Old  Families  of  Salisbury  and  Amesbury^  Massa- 
chusetts;  in  J.  O.  Austin's  Genealogical  Dictionary  of  RJiode  Island ; 
in  W.  W.  Ingraham's  History  of  the  Castle  Family  ;  from  manuscript 
genealogical  and  other  data  in  my  possession ;  and  a  few  data 
(enough  to  complete  the  3,000  familes)  from  James  Savage's  Getu- 
alogical  Dictionary  of  First  Settlers  of  New  England. 

In  order  to  avoid  the  disturbing  numerical  influences  in  small 
families,  the  study  was  confined  to  large  families,  of  six  or  more 
children  each.  Only  those  families  derived  from  a  single  pair  of 
parents  aie  included  in  the  enumerations :  for  instance,  if  a  man 
were  married  more  than  once  and  had  six  (or  more)  children  by  one 
wife  and  fewer  than  six  by  another  wife,  the  six  bom  to  the  one 
couple  were  counted  in  as  a  complete  family,  and  the  others  were 
disregarded.  In  a  few  instances  where  a  man  or  a  woman  had 
more  than  five  children  by  each  of  two  wives  or  husbands,  the  two 
sets  of  children  were  taken  as  two  separate  families.  Each  family 
in  this  series  therefore  represents  the  progeny  of  the  same  father  and 
mother.  The  families  were  taken  as  they  came,  without  any  selec- 
tion whatever. 

The  vast  majority  of  the  families  enumerated  —  probably  more 
than  95  per  cent.  — were  of  Anglo-Saxon  race  and  located  in  New 
England.  An  insignificant  proportion  were  of  Irish,  Scotch,  or 
other  origin ;  no  colored  families  were  knowingly  included.  The 
period  of  time  embraced  by  these  families  covers  more  than  three 
hundred  years,  from  the  year  1600  (and  even  earlier)  to  the  present 

24 


26 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7.  1905 


daughters.  The  proportion  of  males  to  females  was  as  108.3  to 
100.  This  proportion  of  males  is  somewhat  higher  than  the  usual 
general  ratio  at  birth,  which  is  ordinarily  in  the  neighborhood  of  105 
or  ro6 ;  thus,  in  59,350,000  births  in  Europe  there  was  a  ratio  of 
106.3  boys  to  100  girls;  and  of  2,063,386  births  in  the  United 
Table  I.     StatiitUs  af  Stx-compasiHati  0/3,000  Famttiei 


NunlwiD 

-— 

i 

Nambtfin 

" 

S 

_.. 

1 

Nambfliii 

— 

1 

Fimily. 

\ 

II 

F.n,il)-. 

ll 

II 

^1 

iJ 

1*3 

FsniUr. 

^i 

15 

. 

1     . 

. 

k| 

1 

1 

1 

P 

si 

\\\ 

1 

JJ 

J'' 

.B 

1 
i 

1 

13 

i 

1 
1 

1 

|3 

a 

£ 

§■ 

LI. 

H 

S 

£ 

1 

1 

^ 

0 

,1 

i? 

0 

~^ 

^ 

4 

1 

77 

»5 

39 

10 

4  14 

3 

71 

66 

It 

10 

3 

& 

)4 

9 

5     14 

i 

•J4 

111 

i 

37 

38 

3 

9 

9 

4 

s 

6    U 

4 

3 

1S6 

3 

79 

8a 

10 

7 

7    14 

4 

u8 

I_10 

4 

iiS 

114 

ao7 

ao7 

£ 

S 

14 

5 

5 

1 

45 

48 

s 

94 

los 

5 

9 

14 

4 

6 

i 

8 

7 

7 

8 

ji 

6 

9 

1 
3 

13 

la 

13 

_; 

i 

4 
3 

10 

!J 

1 

6^ 

5?3 



7 

0 

7 

5 

7 

9 

0 

' 

S 

4 

11 

'7 

17 

^ 

— 

— 

— 

6 

7 

43 

<i 

44S 

44S 

7 

i 

23 

iS 

10 

5 

IS 

a 

S 

% 

7 

119 

'1* 

~~' 

6 

6 

13 

3' 

17 

6 

IS 

a 

4 

3 

7 

iSi 

to 

5 

S 

5 

7 

II 

8 

7 

iS 

3 

3 

4 

7 

161 

168 

27 

'9 

4 

S 

11 

7 

S 

■s 

a 

1 

7 

78 

93 

3 

10 

40 

47 

3 

9 

13 

S 

$ 

6 

9 

IS 

7 

3« 

39 

4 

10 

Si 

75 

2 

|] 

5 

10 

15 

" 

7 

7 

_5_ 

4 

1 

lo 

10 

69 
7« 

S 

ViT 

i*L 

10 

7 

34 

H 

13 

0 

13 

* 

5 

16 

t 

8 

0 

8 

3 

3 

13 

13 

8 

S 

■6 

a 

7 

S 

34 

31 

9 

10 

_3_ 

3 

10 

3 

.3 

3 

2 

— ■ 

6 

3 

« 

70 

70 

343 

343 

4 

4 

13 

4 

i 

5 

3 

1 

ti4 

«3o 

8 

S 

'3 

4 

10 

» 

iS 

, 

4 

S 

154 

150 

10 

I 

a 

7 

6 

13 

9 

10 

3 

5 

J 

138 

■II 

a 

1 

7 

6 

7 

13 

9 

9 

10 

6 

1 

4S 

5- 

J 

30 

m 

i 

8    '3 

6 

£ 

7 

% 

13 

14 

4 

4> 

37 

4 

9;>3 

3 

3 

5 

t6 

% 

a 

1 

5 

43 

48 

3 

10    13 

3 

SS3 

S53 

* 

" 

46 

45 

1 

11    13 

i 
46 

^6 

States  during  the  census  5'ear  1900  there  were  104.9  niales  to  every 
100  females.  The  figures  of  Janse  and  of  Geissler*  both  show 
that  in  lai^e  families  the  proportion  of  sons  at  birth  is  greater  than  j^ 
in  small  families,  and  the  high  rate  of  sons  found  in  my  series  is 
probably  due,  in  part  at  least,  to  the  fact  that  this  series  is  based  on 
lai^e  families. 

'  5e«  TcfCRDces  at  Ihe  close  of  tbe  uticle. 


28  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

chances  of  a  child  being  a  son  are  taken  as  108  :  208,  and  of  being 
a  daughter  as  100 :  208.  Each  permutation  of  m  sons  and  n  daugh- 
ters would,  then,  have  a  chance  of  occurring  108"*  x  100"  times  in 
208*+*  families.  This  ratio  makes  the  calculations  more  cumber- 
some, but  gives  a  more  accurate  result.  In  Table  I,  along  with  the 
number  of  families  of  each  combination  as  actually  observed  is 
given,  in  the  fifth  column,  the  number  called  for  by  the  theory  of 
probabilities,  calculated  on  the  basis  of  108  :  100.  Thus,  out  of 
603  families  of  6  children,  1 1  consisting  entirely  of  sons  actually 
occurred,  while  the  theory  of  chances  called  for  12  ;  186  families 
actually  consisted  of  3  sons  and  3  daughters,  while  the  probable 
number  was  188  ;  and  so  on. 

It  will  be  immediately  seen  on  examination  of  Table  I  that  there 
is  throughout  a  very  close  correspondence  between  the  number  of 
families  actually  observed  and  the  number  called  for  by  the  theory 
of  probabilities.  In  other  words,  the  sex-composition  of  families 
practically  agrees  with  the  laws  of  chance. 

After  completing  this  enumeration  and  arriving  at  the  results 
stated,  I  found  on  searching  the  literature  two  and  only  two  other 
studies  of  the  same  subject,  those  of  Janse  and  of  Geissler. 

Janse  gives  statistics  of  2,412  families  of  Middelburg,  Holland, 
of  I  to  16  children  each,  aggregating  8,818  children.  He  gives 
(pages  125-142)  the  numbers  of  families  not  only  of  each  combina- 
tion of  sexes  but  also  of  each  permutation  or  order  of  birth  of  sons 
and  daughters ;  he  does  not,  however,  apply  the  theory  of  proba- 
bilities to  the  subject. 

Geissler,  having  at  his  command  the  unexampled  facilities  and 
data  of  the  vital  registry  bureau  of  Saxony,  has  presented  an  analysis 
of  the  statistics  of  no  fewer  than  4,794,304  children,  of  998,761 
families,  bom  in  Saxony,  1876-1885.  In  a  careful  comparison  of 
the  various  sex-combinations  in  his  families  of  2  to  1 2  children  each 
he  found  an  extremely  exact  correspondence  of  the  actual  numbers 
with  the  numbers  called  for  by  the  theory  of  probabilities,  except 
that  in  the  case  of  families  entirely  of  the  same  sex  the  actual  num- 
bers slightly  exceeded  the  probable.  He  also  gives  an  exhaustive 
study  of  the  actuality  and  probability  of  the  sex  of  children  born 
after  given  sex-combinations  already  exist,  and  concludes  that  in 
general  there  is  a  tendency  toward  the  equalization  of  the  number 


30  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

determination  of  the  sex  of  his  or  her  offspring,  the  sex-composition 
of  any  family  bom  to  a  single  pair  of  parents  would  be  the  resultant 
from  the  fusion  of  the  sex-determining  powers  of  the  two  parents. 
Opposite  sex-determining  influences  in  the  two  parents  would  tend 
to  neutralize  each  other,  while  similar  influences  would  be  strength- 
ened. With  a  single  pair  of  parents  it  is  not  possible  to  form  a 
judgment  as  to  the  special  sex-determining  power,  arrhenogenic  or 
thelygenic,  of  either  parent.  A  study  of  families  resulting  from 
multiple  marriages,  in  which  one  parent  was  married  more  than 
once,  might  reveal  a  constant  sex-determining  influence  on  the  part 
of  the  parent  multiply  married  that  would  be  manifest  in  the  off- 
spring by  different  consorts.  It  is  not  often  that  a  father  has  six  or 
more  children  by  each  of  two  wives,  so  that  in  this  study  there  are 
too  few  families  of  this  sort  from  which  to  draw  any  satisfactory  con- 
clusions. The  data  obtained,  so  far  as  they  go,  are  as  follows : 
Fourteen  fathers  who  had  more  than  five  children  by  each  of  two 
wives,  and  each  of  whom  by  the  first  marriage  had  more  sons  than 
daughters,  had  by  the  first  marriages  a  total  of  79  sons  and  34 
daughters,  and  by  the  second  marriages  66  sons  and  42  daughters ; 
if  in  this  series  the  predominance  of  sons  in  the  first  marriages  can 
be  interpreted  as  due  to  a  dominant  arrhenogenic  power  in  the 
fathers,  then  the  same  dominant  tendency  to  the  generation  of  males 
is  in  general  observable  in  the  second  marriages.  On  the  contrary, 
7  fathers,  each  of  whom  by  his  first  marriage  had  more  daughters 
than  sons,  had  by  the  first  marriages  16  sons  and  37  daughters,  and 
by  the  second  marriages  33  sons  and  29  daughters  ;  the  dominant 
thelygenic  tendency  in  the  first  unions  in  this  series  was  not  main- 
tained in  the  second  unions.  These  data  are  insufficient  for  general- 
ization ;  but  a  study  of  larger  series,  embracing  mothers  as  well  as 
fathers  and  not  limited  to  large  families,  might  yield  some  reliable 
conclusions  as  to  the  possession  of  special  sex-determining  powers 
by  individuals. 

If  there  is  any  special  sex-determining  influence,  in  either  an 
arrhenogenic  or  thelygenic  direction,  inherent  in  individuals,  and 
this  tendency  is  transmissible  to  the  offspring,  then  a  study  of  the 
different  families  or  generations  descended  from  the  same  common 
ancestors  might  reveal  traces  of  the  existence  of  such  tendency. 


32  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

sons  and  31  daughters,  a  ratio  of  177  sons  to  100  daughters;  and 
so  with  the  others.  The  total  number  of  families  enumerated  is 
878,  i^ith  a  total  of  7,376  individuals,  and  an  average  ratio  of  108.5 
males  to  100  females,  practically  the  same  ratio  as  in  my  entire 
series  of  3,000  families.  The  different  families  are  arranged  in  the 
order  of  the  ratios  of  sons  to  daughters,  and  range  from  the  Leavitt 
families,  averaging  177  sons,  to  the  Wilder  families,  averaging  only 
72  sons,  to  every  100  daughters.  These  statistics  are  perhaps  too 
limited  to  warrant  any  very  positive  conclusions  ;  but  they  serve  as 
a  contribution  to  the  subject,  and  in  some  of  the  cases,  as  the  47 
Gushing  families  with  a  ratio  of  153  sons,  or  the  37  Beal  families 
with  a  ratio  of  83  sons,  the  number  of  families  appears  sufficiently 
large  and  the  departure  from  the  average  ratio  of  the  sexes  suffi- 
ciently marked  to  eliminate  chance  and  show  that  in  some  individ- 
uals and  families  there  is  a  hereditary  tendency  to  the  production  of 
sons,  and  in  others  of  daughters.  This  table  necessarily  presents 
the  influence  of  only  one  line,  the  male ;  the  female  lines  coming 
in  at  each  marriage  of  course  affect  the  sex-determining  tendency, 
but  both  parental  influences  can  not  be  exhibited  in  this  method  of 
presentation,  and  a  markedly  predominant  tendency  to  produce  all 
children  of  one  sex  even  if  on  one  side  only  ought  to  be  brought 
out  by  this  method.  On  the  whole,  the  data  exhibited  in  Table  II 
would  seem  to  show  that  in  different  families  there  are  marked 
hereditary  differences  in  the  sex-determining  tendencies.  Other 
observers  (von  Lenhossek,  Lorenz)  also  have  expressed  a  belief 
that  in  some  families  there  are  hereditary  tendencies  to  a  predomi- 
nance of  sons,  in  others  of  daughters. 

If  there  is  a  special  parental  sex-determining  power  shown  by 
the  data  in  Table  II,  it  is  exerted,  be  it  noted,  on  the  male  or 
paternal  side ;  and,  contrary  to  recent  theories  that  sex  is  deter- 
mined exclusively  through  the  mother,  indicates  that  in  the  case  of 
man  at  least  the  paternal  side  has  some  sex-determining  influence. 

If  there  is  a  hereditable  sex-determining  power,  it  would  be 
natural  to  expect  that  the  members  of  large  unisexual  families,  in 
which  the  children  are  all  or  nearly  all  of  the  same  sex,  would 
themselves  show  a  marked  tendency  to  produce  children  predomi- 
nantly of  that  sex.     This,  however,  is  often  not  the  case. 


34  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

of  the  comparative  strengths  of  these  two  forces  in  the  parents. 
For  instance,  suppose  one  parent  to  have  a  net  arrhenogenic  power 
twice  the  strength  of  a  net  thelygenic  power  in  the  other  parent ; 
then  the  net  resultant  sex-determining  power  in  the  pair  would  be 
such  that  there  would  be  a  tendency  to  produce  two  sons  for  every 
daughter.  For  the  race  at  large  the  general  average  relative 
strengths  of  the  arrhenogenic  and  thelygenic  forces  are  at  concep- 
tion approximately  in  the  ratio  of  1 1 5  :  \oo  (Rauber),  or  1 1 1  :  100 
(von  Lenhossek),  respectively,  which  after  allowing  for  the  exces- 
sive intrauterine  mortality  of  male  fetuses  yields  the  ratio  at  birth 
of  from  1 05-108  boys  to  100  girls.  The  net  sex-determining  powers 
or  coefficients  vary  through  a  wide  range  in  different  pairs  of  par- 
ents, and,  considering  that  in  each  pair  they  result  from  the  fortuitous 
union  of  individuals  with  differing  or  unknown  coefficients,  these  vary- 
ing powers  are  probably  distributed  among  the  parental  pairs  in  such 
a  way  quantitatively  as  to  agree  with  the  numerical  expression  of  the 
theory  of  chances.  According  to  this  hypothesis,  then,  the  sex- 
composition  of  families  agrees  with  the  laws  of  chance,  not  because  the 
determination  of  sex  is  a  pure  matter  of  chance,  but  because  the  cell- 
ular forces  that  govern  the  determination  of  sex  and  tend  to  produce 
males  and  females  respectively  are  distributed  among  the  various  pairs 
of  parents  in  arithmetical  agreement  with  the  theory  of  probability. 

In  a  comparatively  small  number  of  families  included  in  my 
enumeration  (771)  the  sex  of  the  firstborn  child  was  noted.  Sim- 
lar  statistics  have  been  collected  and  presented  by  Geissler  and  by 
Orschansky.     The  three  series  of  data  are  shown  in  Table  III. 

These  three  series  of  data  agree  with  one  another  in  showing 
that  there  is  a  general  agreement  between  the  sex  rf  the  first 
child  and  the  sex  of  the  majority  of  the  children  in  families ;  in 
families  beginning  with  a  son  there  is  in  general  an  excess  of  male 
over  female  children,  and  vice  versa.  After  deducting  the  firstborn 
children,  however,  the  remaining  children  of  the  families  present,  as 
shown  by  the  last  column  of  the  table,  the  usual  proportions  between 
the  sexes.  The  general  agreement  between  the  sex  of  the  first  child 
and  the  sex  of  the  majority  of  the  children,  therefore,  is  a  purely 
arithmetical  result  of  the  method  of  classification  employed,  and 


36  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

sex-composition  of  the  various  families  all  gradations  were  found 
from  those  exclusively  or  preponderatingly  male,  through  those  in 
which  the  sexes  were  mixed  in  various  proportions,  to  families  pre- 
ponderatingly or  exclusively  female.  It  was  found  that  the  act- 
ually observed  numbers  of  families  of  each  sex-combination  cor- 
respond very  closely  with  the  numbers  required  by  the  theories  of 
probabilities,  calculating  on  the  basis  that  the  general  chances  that 
any  given  child  would  be  a  male  would  be  as  108  in  208.  This 
correspondence,  however,  was  not  taken  as  necessarily  indicating 
that  the  determination  of  sex  in  families  is  entirely  a  fortuitous 
matter,  rather  than  under  the  government  of  forces  resident  in  the 
parents  or  germ  cells ;  although  these  sex-determining  forces 
might  be  distributed  in  varying  strength  among  the  various 
parents  in  quantitative  agreement  with  the  laws  of  chance.  A  com- 
pilation of  numerous  families  in  various  generations  descended  from 
common  ancestors  seemed  to  show  that  parents  may  possess  defi- 
nite and  specific  sex-determining  powers  that  are  transmissible  to 
offspring,  and  vary  in  different  individuals  and  different  families. 
As  in  this  compilation  the  lines  of  descent  were  shown  on  the 
male  side  only,  it  would  seem  that  in  the  case  of  man  at  least 
the  father  has  some  influence  in  the  determination  of  the  sex  of 
his  offspring.  It  was  also  shown  that  in  general  the.  sex  of  the 
firstborn  child  agrees  with  the  sex  of  the  majority  of  the  children  in 
families,  but  simply  as  an  arithmetical  result  from  the  numerical 
advantage    arising  from  arrangement  of  the  families  according  to 

the  sex  of  the  first  child. 

References 

Janse,  L.     Bijdrage  tot  het  onderzoek  naar  de  oorzaken  der  geslachtsver- 

houding  bij  de  geboorten.     Middelburg,  1853.     Pp.  171. 
Geissler,  Arthur.     Beitrdge  zur  Frage  des  Geschlechtst^erhdltnisses  der 

Geborenen.      Zeitschrift  des    k,    sdchsischen  staiistischen   Bureaus^ 

Dresden,  1889,  xxxv,  pages  1-24  and  56. 
Rauber,  a.     Die  Ueberschuss  an  Knabengeburien  und  seine  biologische 

Bedeutung.     Leipzig,  1900.     Pp.  220. 
Orschansky,  J.      Die  Vererbung  im  gesunden  und  krankhaften  Zustande 

und  die  Entstehung  des  Geschlechts  beim  Menschen,     Stuttgart,  1903. 

Pp-  347- 
VON  LENHOSSfeK,  M.    Das  Problem  der geschlechtsbestimmenden  Ursachen. 

Jena,  1903.     Pp.  99. 


38  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

more  or  less  sacred  character ;  so  that  in  some  cases  where  the 
medidne  is  mixed  with  water  before  it  is  administered,  it  is  neces- 
sary to  stir  the  mixture  with  the  identifying  article  —  with  the  claw 
of  the  animal,  or  the  beard  of  the  turkey,  or  the  little  stone  arrow- 
head which  may  be  tied  to  the  bundle.  Favorite  objects  for  stirring 
such  fluid  medicine  are  the  claw  or  the  tusk  of  a  bear.  This  no 
doubt  has  relation  to  the  very  common  belief  in  the  bear's  invulner- 
ability and  in  its  power  as  a  healer. 

Formerly  almost  every  man  carried  about  with  him,  tied  to  his 
necklet,  his  shoulder  girdle,  or  perhaps  to  his  hair,  one  or  more 
little  bundles  containing  medicine.  Some  men  have  herb  medi- 
cines of  which  they  alone  possess  the  secrets.  These  may  be 
what  we  would  call  drugs,  or  they  may  be  merely  ma-i-yti'  (mys- 
terious, or  spiritual).  The  old  stories  tell  us  that  the  people  learned 
of  the  various  medicinal  plants,  and  of  the  uses  to  which  they  were 
to  be  put,  by  means  of  dreams ;  and  that  in  other  cases  certain 
mythological  heroes  went  out  with  them  on  the  prairie  and  pointed 
out  plants  which  they  explained  were  to  be  used  for  certain  diseases. 

Medicinal  Plants 

From  my  old  "  mother,'*  Wind  Woman,  of  the  Northern  Chey- 
ennes,  I  have  received  a  number  of  specimens  of  plants  used  in 
healing  by  these  Indians.  The  collection  by  no  means  includes  all 
the  plant  medicines  used  by  the  Cheyennes,  yet  it  was  difficult  to 
secure  even  so  small  a  collection  and  to  properly  identify  the  plants. 
The  species  procured  have  been  very  kindly  named  for  me  by  Mr 
Frederick  V.  Coville,  Botanist  of  the  United  States  Department  of 
Agriculture,  and  also  have  been  submitted  to  Dr  H.  H.  Rusby  of 
the  College  of  Pharmacy  of  the  City  of  New  York.  Dr  Rusby  has 
been  kind  enough  to  comment  on  some  of  the  uses  to  which  these 
plants  are  put,  and  I  have  introduced  his  remarks  under  the  differ- 
ent species.  To  the  list  of  plants  used  in  healing,  two  dyes  are 
added  at  the  close. 

Huu' jiP* hlssp' iyOy  Bark  Medicine  {Balsamarrfiisa  sagittata 
Nutt.).  This  is  used  for  stomach  trouble  and  for  headache.  For 
pains  in  the  stomach,  boil  the  leaves,  roots,  and  stems  together  and 
drink  the  infusion.     For  headache,  steam  the  face  over  the  boiling 


40  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

sores  which  may  break  out  on  the  body.  The  leaves  and  stem  are 
boiled  together,  and  the  affected  parts  are  washed  with  the  infusion. 
If  this  does  not  speedily  effect  a  cure,  the  fluid  must  be  rubbed  on 
hard.  In  severe  cases  some  of  the  tea  must  be  drunk  ;  it  is  used 
in  this  way  to  cure  smallpox.  The  plant  has  no  medicinal  prop- 
erties known  to  science. 

To'wdniyUhkfts^  Fever  Medicine  (** to-make-cold  medicine'*) 
{Psaralea  argophylla  Pursh).  This  is  used  to  reduce  fever.  The 
leaves  and  stems  are  ground  fine  and  boiled  in  water,  and  the  tea  is 
drunk.  To  cure  a  high  fever,  the  leaves  and  stem  ground  to 
powder  are  also  mixed  with  grease  and  rubbed  all  over  the  body. 

The  medicinal  properties  of  this  plant  are  not  known  to  science, 
but  it  is  a  near  relative  of  species  having  active  and  important 
properties,  though  not  much  used  in  medicine.  Its  use  to  reduce 
fever  is  of  great  interest  and  very  suggestive. 

Mahkfta'niywdSy  Poison  Weed  Medicine  {Astragalus  nitidus 
Dougl.).  This  plant  is  used  in  cases  of  poisoning  by  ivy  or  other 
noxious  plants.  The  leaves  and  stems  are  ground  fine,  and  when 
the  poisoned  skin  presents  a  watery  appearance  the  powder  is 
sprinkled  on  the  afflicted  parts. 

The  use  of  this  plant  is  also  interesting,  and  if  a  really  efficient 
and  reliable  remedy  could  be  found  for  ivy  poisoning  (and  it  is  pos- 
sible that  this  plant  might  be  such)  it  might  become  a  very  impor- 
tant article  of  trade.  This  plant  is  closely  related  to  the  famous 
loco  weed. 

Hdh! dhidnSis' tut.  Paralysis  Medicine  ( Uthospermum  lifieari- 
folium  Goldie.).  This  is  used  for  paralysis,  and  also  in  cases  where 
the  patient  is  irrational  from  any  sickness.  For  paralysis  the  leaves, 
roots,  and  stems  are  ground  fine,  and  a  very  small  quantity  of  the 
powder  is  rubbed  on  the  paralyzed  part.  It  causes  a  prickling  sen- 
sation of  the  skin.  It  is  also  said  to  be  sometimes  used  green,  the 
doctor  wrapping  some  of  the  leaves  in  a  cotton  cloth,  then  crushing 
them  with  her  teeth  and  rubbing  the  affected  parts,  when  the 
same  prickling  or  stinging  sensation  is  felt.  Where  the  person  is 
irrational  by  reason  of  illness,  a  tea  is  made  of  the  roots,  leaves,  and 
stem,  and  rubbed  on  the  head  and  face.  The  plant  is  also  used 
when  a  person  is  very  sleepy  —  hard  to  keep  awake.     It  is  chewed 


42  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

M&wd* himohk' shin,  Elk  Mint  {Agastaclu  anethiodora  (Nutt.) 
Britt).  Used  as  tea  by  boiling  the  leaves  and  forming  a  pleasant 
drink.  An  infusion  of  the  leaves  when  allowed  to  get  cold  is  good 
for  pain  in  the  chest  (as  when  the  lungs  are  sore  from  much  cough- 
ing), or  for  a  weak  heart. 

WV Uhkhlssi' hiyOy  Bitter  Medicine  {Acorus  calamtis).  An  infusion 
made  from  a  bit  of  this  root  boiled  in  water  is  drunk  for  pain  in  the 
bowels,  and  the  root  chewed  and  rubbed  on  the  skin  is  good  for 
any  illness.  A  bit  of  the  root  tied  to  a  child's  necklet,  dress,  or 
blanket,  will  keep  the  night  spirits  away. 

This  plant  does  not  grow  in  the  northern  country,  but  is  ob- 
tained by  the  Cheyennes  from  the  Sioux.  In  former  times  they 
smoked  it  with  red-willow  bark. 

Slfiyd'ln&wthlss^' hiyo,  Strong  Medicine  {Anaphalis  niargaritacea 
or  subalpina).  If  a  gift,  to  be  left  on  a  hill,  is  to  be  made  to  the  sun 
or  to  the  spirits,  this  ** strong  medicine*'  is  used  to  smoke  and 
purify  it  before  it  is  taken  out.  The  leaves  of  the  medicine  are 
scattered  over  a  burning  coal,  just  as  sweet  grass  or  sweet  pine  is 
used  in  smoking  other  things.  In  one  of  his  little  medicine  bundles 
each  man  carries  some  of  the  dried  and  powdered  flowers  of  this 
plant,  and  formerly,  when  going  into  battle,  he  chewed  a  little  of  it 
and  rubbed  it  over  his  arms,  legs,  and  body,  for  the  purpose  of  im- 
parting strength,  energy,  and  dash,  and  thus  protecting  him  from 
danger.  A  man  still  puts  a  little  of  the  powder  on  the  sole  of  each 
hoof  of  the  horse  he  is  riding,  in  order  to  make  it  long-winded,  and 
he  also  blows  a  little  of  the  powder  between  the  animal's  ears  also 
for  the  purpose  of  increasing  its  wind.  The  reason  for  rubbing  the 
medicine  on  the  body  is  that  the  warrior  may  be  hard  to  hit  by  an 
enemy.  Spotted  Wolf  warned  his  sons  that  after  this  medicine  had 
been  rubbed  on  them,  they  must  let  no  woman  touch  them,  for  to 
do  so  would  render  the  medicine  powerless. 

The  dried  flowers  of  the  plant  are  made  into  a  very  fine  light 
dust,  which  is  easily  blown  away  or  moved  by  any  force,  and 
the  qualities  that  it  is  believed  to  impart  to  one  treated  with  it  prob- 
ably have  reference  to  this  readiness  with  which  it  is  moved. 

Mdhhfsln,  Mint  (unidentified).  This  mint  is  used  in  making  a 
tea  for  drinking,  chiefly  for  the  sick.  A  little  of  the  plant  may  be 
used  with  the  bark  medicine  to  give  it  a  pleasant  flavor. 


ANCIENT  INDIAN   FIREPLACES  IN  SOUTH  DAKOTA 

BAD-LANDS 

By  a.  E.  SHELDON 

In  the  Bad-lands  region  of  South  Dakota,  on  the  south  side  of 
White  river,  about  1 50  miles  above  where  that  stream  empties  into 
the  Missouri,  flows  the  small  stream  now  called  Lost  Dog.  Be- 
fore 1 89 1  it  had  no  name ;  the  region  was  wild  and  uninhabited 
by  white  men  or  Indians.  It  was  in  December,  1890,  that  Big 
Foot's  band  of  Sioux  from  Cheyenne  River  agency  crossed  White 
river  and  followed  an  old  trail  along  the  bank  of  the  little  stream 
on  their  way  to  the  scene  of  the  Ghost-dance  disturbance  at  Pine 
Ridge.  The  first  night  across  White  river  they  camped  by  a  little 
spring,  since  called  Big  Foot  spring ;  their  second  encampment  was 
beneath  the  evening  shadow  of  picturesque,  pine-crowned  Porcu- 
pine butte.  Here  they  were  located  by  scouts  of  the  Seventh  cav- 
alry, and  the  next  day  were  halted  on  their  march  and  forced  to 
surrender.  The  third  night  both  soldiers  and  Indians  camped  on 
Wounded  Knee  creek.  The  attempt  the  next  morning  to  disarm 
the  band  led  to  a  fight  in  which  thirty  soldiers  and  more  than  a 
hundred  Indians  were  killed  in  what  became  known  as  the  battle  of 
Wounded  Knee,  to  be  remembered  as  the  last  serious  conflict  with 
Indians  within  the  United  States.  The  Indian  survivors  fled  from 
their  camp  to  the  hills  ;  their  tipis  were  set  on  fire  by  the  soldiers  in 
order  to  drive  lingering  hostiles  from  their  shelter,  and  when  the 
fight  ended  some  dozens  of  homeless  dogs  sniffed  about  the  ruined, 
blood-stained  camp.  History  records  the  fate  of  the  fleeing  Sioux 
—  how  some  of  them  were  killed  and  others  captured  in  their 
hungry  and  homeless  flight.  One  of  the  vivid  recollections  of  the 
writer  is  that  of  the  churches  in  Pine  Ridge  which,  a  few  hours  later, 
became  improvised  hospitals  for  the  mangled  men,  women,  and 
children  brought  in  from  the  field. 

A  few  days  after  the  battle  some  cowboys  from  a  ranch  on  the 
north  side  of  White  river  were  searching  the  Bad-lands  for  stock 

44 


46  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

was  the  result  of  fire,  and  then  informed  his  uncle,  who  went  into  the 
canyon  and  examined  the  find,  wondering  whether  it  was  an  Indian 
"  sweat-house  "  and  if  so  how  it  came  to  be  fastened  against  the  side 
of  a  disintegrating  clay  wall  so  far  below  the  top. 

Later  in  the  year  Mr  Famham  informed  Dr  Walker,  surgeon  at 
Pine  Ridge  agency,  of  the  discovery,  and  from  this  gentleman  the 
writer,  then  engaged  in  a  scientific  expedition  to  the  Sioux  reserva- 
tion, received  an  account  of  what  had  been  reported  to  him.  In 
August,  1903,  I  reached  Mr  Famham's  place  with  a  camera  and 
made  the  first  photographs  of  what  was  found  to  be  a  remarkable 
series  of  prehistoric  fireplaces.  Before  my  arrival,  Ulysses  had  dis- 
covered four  similar  deposits  scattered  along  the  canyon  within  two 
miles  of  the  first  one,  and  after  my  appearance  on  the  ground  we 
discovered  two  more,  making  seven  in  all.  Their  common  character- 
istic was  a  mass  of  charcoal,  burned  stones,  and  occasional  fragments 
of  pottery,  clay,  and  bone,  covering  a  space  about  two  feet  in  diam- 
eter and  two  or  three  feet  in  height  The  first  fireplace  found  was 
about  six  feet  below  the  top  of  the  wall  to  which  it  adhered  ;  the 
others  occurred  from  three  to  ten  feet  below  the  present  surface  of 
the  soil.  Near  the  fireplace  which  lies  at  the  maximum  distance 
from  the  top  there  occurs  a  mass  of  kitchen  refuse  consisting  of 
ashes,  charcoal,  a  dozen  different  kinds  of  bones,  and  flint  chips. 
This  mass,  which  is  about  fifteen  inches  thick  and  extends  back  an 
unknown  distance  into  the  cliff,  is  visible  along  the  side  of  the  canyon 
for  a  distance  of  five  or  six  yards.  From  this  debris  I  took  two 
fragments  of  pottery  and  an  arrowpoint.     (See  plates  ii-v.) 

The  soil  above  these  fireplaces  exhibits  from  eight  to  twelve 
distinct  strata,  each  four  inches  to  fifteen  inches  in  thickness  and 
varying  in  substance  from  black  loam  to  yellow  gumbo  clay  and 
soft,  sandy  grit.  A  careful  verticial  section  of  these  strata  was  taken 
out  and  is  now  preserved  in  the  museum  of  the  Nebraska  Historical 
Society  at  Lincoln.  It  was  observed  that  the  stratum  of  soil  at  the 
level  of  the  fireplaces  was  uniformly  of  a  black  humus  material, 
with  stray  root-fibers  here  and  there,  indicating  clearly  that  this 
was  the  surface  of  the  ground  at  the  time  the  Indians  built  the  fires 
and  scattered  the  debris  from  their  kitchens.  One  or  two  feet  above 
this  layer  of  black  soil  is  a  thick  stratum  of  fine,  gray  silt,  indicatifig 


SHELDON]  AXCIE.VT  INDIAN  FIREPLACES  47 

a  deposit  in  comparatively  still  water.  Scattered  thickly  through 
the  silt  are  the  shells  of  several  varieties  of  periwinkle  and  other 
fresh-water  mollusks. 

Lost  Dog  creek  heads  about  12  miles  from  White  river  and  flows 
northeastwardly  into  that  stream.  It  is  about  70  miles  north  of 
Merriman,  Neb.  Its  canyon,  or  Bad-lands  tract,  is  about  ten  miles 
long  by  three  miles  wide ;  it  is  depressed  from  100  to  1 50  feet  below 
the  level  of  the  surrounding  high  prairie,  and  its  walls  are  carved 
and  gashed  into  thousands  of  fantastic  forms  by  the  action  of  the 
waters  upon  the  soft  deposits  which  form  the  basin  through  which 
the  stream  has  deeply  cut  its  way.  The  alternating  strata  which 
lie  above  the  fireplaces  extend  almost  horizontally  across  the  entire 
basin,  appearing  and  reappearing  in  a  hundred  places  where  the 
water  from  the  hills  has  eaten  out  side  ravines  that  feed  into  the 
main  canyon.    (See  plate  11.) 

The  problem  presented  is  this :  At  some  time  in  the  past  these 
fireplaces  and  deposits  of  kitchen  refuse  were  made  by  primitive 
people  who  were  wont  to  camp  on  what  was  then  the  superficial 
level  of  the  country.  Since  that  time  the  entire  basin,  covering  an 
area  of  three  by  ten  miles,  has  been  filled  with  soft  Bad-lands  clay, 
regularly  deposited  by  the  action  of  water  in  eight  or  ten  distinctly 
marked  strata,  some  of  which  are  filled  with  the  shells  of  fresh- 
water mollusks.  After  the  basin  had  been  filled  above  the  old 
level,  where  the  ancients  camped,  to  a  depth  of  at  least  ten  feet, 
erosion  began  its  work,  since  which  time  the  entire  basin  of  hori- 
zontal strata  has  been  cut  into  gullies  thirty  to  sixty  feet  deep,  so 
that  the  present  creek  with  its  lateral  ravines  is  that  much  below 
the  top  of  the  surface  which  extends  from  one  side  of  the  basin  to 
the  other.  In  this  process  of  erosion  these  ancient  fireplaces  have 
been  exposed  to  view. 

The  data  available  for  determining  how  many  years  have  been 
required  to  fill  the  basin  from  ten  to  fifteen  feet  or  more  above  its 
old  level  and  to  cut  ravines  through  these  deposits  to  a  depth  of 
fifiy  or  sixty  feet  are  very  shifting  and  unsatisfactory.  Everyone 
familiar  with  the  Bad-lands  region  knows  that  enormous  masses  of 
its  soft  soil  are  moved  by  a  single  heavy  rain-storm,  in  some  cases 
a  road  being  completely  obliterated  by  a  deposit  of  three  or  four 


48  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

feet  of  gumbo  soil  during  a  single  night.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
filling  of  a  basin  covering  three  by  ten  miles  with  uniform  hori- 
zontal strata  is  manifestly  a  different  task  from  that  of  burying  a 
road  in  a  narrow  canyon.  I  have  talked  with  many  of  the  earliest 
trappers,  traders,  and  Indians,  some  of  whom  have  been  familiar 
with  this  region  for  fifty  years.  They  all  say  that  half  a  century 
ago  the  appearance  of  these  Bad-lands  basins  was  practically  the 
same  as  it  now  is  —  dissected  by  gullies  and  ravines  from  forty  to 
fifty  feet  below  the  surface  of  the  basin  deposit.  I  am  satisfied  that 
their  testimony  is  correct,  having  tested  it  in  many  different  details. 
If  half  a  ^entury  has  made  no  marked  difference  in  the  topography 
which  the  eye  of  an  experienced  man  would  notice,  it  must  have 
required  a  great  many  centuries  to  accomplish  the  changes  that 
have  taken  place  in  these  Bad-lands  basins  since  the  ancient  fire- 
places were  centers  of  social  groups. 

I  sent  prints  of  the  accompanying  photographs  to  Prof.  J.  E. 
Todd,  State  Geologist  of  South  Dakota,  informing  him  of  the  cir- 
cumstances and  asking  his  judgment  of  the  probable  period  covered 
by  deposits  and  subsequent  erosion  in  basins  similar  to  that  of  Lost 
Dog  canyon.  In  reply  Professor  Todd  expressed  deep  interest  in 
the  finds  and  added : 

**  I  regret  that  I  have  never  made  a  careful  study  of  the  rapidity  of 
changes  in  the  Bad-lands,  but  I  doubt  not  that  there,  as  elsewhere,  they 
vary  much  according  to  the  succession  of  wet  or  dry  years.  Having 
had  a  little  experience  in  a  thunder-shower  in  Indian  Draw,  I  am  pre- 
pared to  believe  your  succession  of  strata  may  be  traces  of  annual 
aggradations,  yet  they  may  mark  much  longer  intervals.  Whether  a  par- 
ticular area  is  aggrading  or  degrading  depends  upon  its  local  base  level, 
and  that  may  be  the  result  of  *  river  piracy, '  land  slide,  amount  of 
rainfall,  or  length  of  rainy  season.  As  to  the  geological  age  of  your 
finds,  they  cannot  be  earlier  than  late  Pleistocene  and  more  likely  are 
quite  recent.  The  gravel  beds  on  top  of  Cedar  mountain  and  Sheep 
mountain  I  look  upon  as  Pliocene  or  early  Pleistocene.  They  are  about 
300  feet  above  present  streams.  I  should  think  a  few  centuries,  and  pos- 
sibly considerable  less,  would  cover  the  antiquity  of  your  finds.  To  an- 
swer any  particular  case,  the  relations  to  present  and  former  drainage 
channels  and  the  rate  of  changes  must  be  carefully  considered.  Judging 
from  other  cases,  different  minds  are  likely  to  come  to  widely  different 
conclusions.  *  * 


52  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

places  vertical ;  yet  there  is  hardly  any  natural  obstacle  to  scal- 
ing the  rocks  from  the  lake  side,  and  if  there  were  artificial  defenses 
they  have  completely  disappeared.  Along  the  edge,  and  sometimes 
almost  on  the  brink,  towers  and  quadrangles  are  disposed  at  vary- 
ing distances  from  each  other.  They  form  two  larger  groups  and 
three  smaller  ones,  the  last  one  of  which  stands  some  750  feet  from 
the  extreme  northwestern  point  of  the  peninsula. 

The  central  area  of  the  plateau  has  fewer  buildings.  With  the 
exception  of  the  round  ones  at  h  (plate  vii,  3)  and  a  group  lying  west 
of  w,  they  are  quadrangular.  But  the  northern  edge,  from  a  point 
500  feet  east  of  the  western  end  to  its  eastern  extremity,  supports 
nineteen  round  structures,  the  most  easterly  group  of  which  is  con- 
nected with  a  wall,  more  than  280  feet  long,  running  west  to  east, 
toward  the  edifice  m.  Near  the  lake  shore  and  on  the  northeastern 
spur  of  the  peninsula  is  a  group  of  much  ruined  structures,  and  an 
isolated  tower  rises  near  the  northern  beach.  In  all  (except  the 
vestiges  of  what  appeared  to  be  small  rectangular  cysts,  which  we 
were  not  allowed  to  open),  the  peninsula  at  Sillustani  was  found  to 
support  at  least  ninety-five  buildings,  more  than  eighty  of  which  are 
circular,  not  including  scattered  walls  and  the  so-called  '*  sun  cir- 
cles" of  which  there  are  at  least  five. 

It  will  be  observed  that  the  majority  of  the  towers  stand  on  the 
edge  of  the  plateau,  while  most  of  the  rectangular  structures  are 
away  from  it.  The  largest  and  best  built  occupy  prominent  positions. 
Low  and  indifferently  constructed  walls  exist  in  connection  with  one 
or  the  other  group  of  towers,  and  in  a  few  places  they  also  extend 
along  the  brink  of  the  plateau.  But,  as  already  remarked,  nowhere 
is  there  a  trace  of  breastworks  or  walls  of  circumvallation.  The 
andenes  on  the  eastern  flanks  of  the  mesa  (for  the  plateau  is  but  a 
mesa)  recall  the  terraced  lines  around  ancient  villages  in  the  Bolivian 
Cordillera,  and  could  have  afforded  a  stand  for  warriors  fighting  with 
the  sling,  but  without  protection.  This  is  in  harmony  with  the  mode 
of  warfare  and  the  weapons  of  the  aborigines.^ 


'  The  use  of  the  sling  made  ramparts  inconvenient,  whereas  a  platform  that  placed 
the  defenders  on  a  plane  higher  than  the  assailants  was  an  advantage.  The  ruins  in  the 
Cordillera  of  Bolivia  nearly  always  show  such  a  platform,  or  a  series  of  platforms,  with 
hardly  any  trace  of  parapets.     V^^ood  or  brush  were  out  of  the  question. 


54  AMERICAX  ASTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

At  the  base  of  the  chullpa  is  a  tiny  rectangular  entrance  measuring 
about  two  feet  in  width  and  height  (plate  ix.  3.  4,  6,  7,  8).  I  could 
not  crawl  into  any  of  these  chullpas  m>*self,  and  my  wife  had  con- 
siderable difficulty  in  entering  e\'en  the  largest  of  them  from  the 
base.  These  structures  were  absolutely  empt}*,  nor  could  I  learn 
that  anything  had  ever  been  found  in  them. 

The  upper  tier  of  this  chullpa  was  probably  ne\'er  closed  ;  only 
the  lower  chamber  could  have  been  used.  It  is  not  large,  since 
the  facing  and  the  core  have  an  aggregate  thickness  of  eight  feet 
below  and  ten  feet  above,  so  that  two-thirds  of  the  diameter  of  the 
structure  are  occupied  by  its  walls. 

Chullpa  c  (plate  viii,  2)  also  is  completed  to  the  top.  Like  the 
former,  it  stands  on  the  brink  of  the  plateau,  but  on  the  southern 
instead  of  on  the  eastern  edge.  It  is  much  smaUer  than  chullpa 
a^  its  elevation  being  only  22  feet,  of  which  16  feet  form  the  lower 
or  main  part.  Its  width  at  the  bottom  is  16  feet,  at  the  top  18 
feet;  its  other  dimensions  are  proportional.  Like  a,  the  upper 
chamber  has  for  its  sides  only  the  armor  of  polished  andesite  blocks. 
There  is  a  neck  through  the  upper  part  of  the  core  down  to  the  hole 
in  the  apex  of  the  main  chamber ;  the  hole  has  the  same  dimensions 
as  that  in  chullpa  a.  These  interior  chambers  with  the  necks 
recall  the  form  of  a  bottle.^ 

Several  features  of  these  chullpas  attract  attention : 

1.  The  great  solidity  of  construction,  obtained  by  closely  fitting 
the  heavy  blocks  forming  the  outer  facing  or  armor,  and  by  the 
massiveness  of  the  lower  part  of  the  structure. 

2.  The  great  thickness  of  the  walls  encasing  the  main  chamber. 

3.  The  diminutive  size  of  the  apertures,  both  above  and  below. 
A  child  alone  could  pass  through  the  upper  orifice,  while  the  lar- 
gest of  the  doorways  are  not  four  feet  square. 

Mt  is  interesting  to  compare  the  form  of  the  interior  with  the  bottle-shaped  under- 
ground cells  so  numerous  in  the  ruins  of  Cajamarqnilla,  near  Lima.  These  are  well  de- 
scribed by  Sqnier,  Peru^  pp.  92-93.  Mr  Sqnier  very  appropriately  calls  them  "gran 
aries/'  adding  (p.  94)  :  **and  were  no  doubt  intended  for  the  storage  of  household 
supplies."  The  towers  of  Sillustani  resemble  such  granaries,  except  that  they  are 
above  ground.  Compare  also  the  bottle-shaped  structures  of  clay  which  Dr  Lumholtz 
has  descril>ed  from  cave-villages  in  northwestern  Chihuahua  ( Unknown  Mexico,  vol. 
I,  pp.  58,  62,  64,  no). 


\ 


T 


56  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

It  may  therefore  be  said  that  the  andesite  used  at  Sillustani  was 
quarried  chiefly  by  lightning.  At  the  foot  of  the  cliffs  many  large 
stones  lie  about,  rudely  chipped  and  ready  for  transport.  A  num- 
ber of  such  blocks  are  also  scattered  through  the  valley,  between 
the  cliffs  and  the  hacienda,  as  if  abandoned  in  transit.  Plate  ix, 
16,  17,  18,  represent  three  sides  of  the  largest  one  seen  by  us,  and 
figure  1 5  of  this  plate  shows  the  front  view  of  a  smaller  one.  The 
former  is  nearly  1 2  feet  long,  7  feet  thick,  and  6  feet  in  height.  On 
its  face  (turned  toward  the  ruins)  protrude  three  knobs,  about  18 
inches  long,  curved  upward  so  as  to  afford  a  fair  hold.  On  the  rear 
are  three  stubs.  The  knobs  suggest  the  idea  of  pulling,  wooden 
levers  being  applied  behind.  These  knobs,  protruding  from  the  face 
of  the  blocks  and  also  from  the  rear,  are  still  seen  on  some  of  the 
partly  cut  stones  lying  about  the  towers.  They  seem  to  be,  if  not 
strictly  peculiar  to  Inca  architecture,  at  least  a  constant  feature  of  it. 
I  have  here  introduced  a  view  of  some  of  the  ruins  of  Ollantay- 
tambo,  near  Cuzco  (plate  xiii),  on  which  the  knobs  are  shown  on 
many  parts  of  the  walls.  The  blocks  thus  abandoned  on  the  way 
have  stone  props  under  them  in  the  rear,  so  that  by  pulling,  push- 
ing, heaving,  and  upsetting,  with  the  characteristic  disregard  of  time 
consumed,  the  huge  stones  were  moved  from  the  cliffs  to  the  plateau, 
where  the  work  of  cutting,  placing  in  position,  and  smoothing  was 
completed. 

The  tools  employed  in  these  processes  no  longer  exist  at  Umayo 
and  Sillustani,  but  we  are  sufficiently  acquainted  with  the  imple- 
ments of  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  Peru  and  Bolivia  to  safely  assert 
that,  for  breaking  and  chipping,  stone  mauls  and  hammers  were  used. 
Andesite  can  easily  be  worked  with  bronze,  or  copper,  and  even 
with  chisels  of  harder  stone.  Knowledge  of  the  implements  of  the 
Quichua  and  Aymara,  before  iron  was  introduced  by  the  Spaniards, 
sheds  abundant  light  on  the  work  performed  at  Sillustani.  The 
smooth  finish  was  obtained  by  simple  patient  attrition,  and  there  is 
no  necessity  of  resorting  to  hypotheses  of  artificial  stone  or  tempered 
copper.  Each  block  was  finished  on  the  ground  as  far  as  possible, 
but  the  final  close  fitting  and  the  removal  of  the  knobs  were  done 
after  the  blocks  were  placed  in  position  in  the  walls.  This  is  proved 
by  courses  of  the  masonry  and  even  of  sections  of  walls  in  which  the 


BANDEUKR]    ABORIGINAL  RUINS  AT  SILLUSTANI,  PE^U  $7 

knobs  still  protrude.  That  the  curve  was  last  efiected  is  shown  by 
the  upper  tier,  where  the  outer  edges  of  the  blocks  appear  to  form 
a  drcle,  when  seen  from  below,  but  on  closer  inspection  it  is  seen 
that  the  courses  are  polygonal^  with  as  many  sides  as  there  are 
blocks  in  each. 

So  long  as  the  stones  had  not  to  be  raised  above  the  second 
course,  their  placement  was  easily  accomplished,  but  they  are  placed 
as  high  as  thirty-five  feet  above  the  ground.  Windlasses  were  not 
known  to  aboriginal  Americans,  but  the  ruins  at  Sillustani  fortu- 
nately preserve  examples  of  the  devices  by  which  the  raising  of 
the  blocks  of  andesite  was  achieved.  Plates  viii,  ii,  and  ix,  i, 
exhibit  the  remains  of  inclined  planes  of  rubble,  one  of  them  215 
feet  in  length  (f/),  on  which  the  blocks  of  stone  were  gradually 
moved  up  to  the  required  elevation  in  the  wall.  The  incline  abuts 
against  the  tower  and  was  raised  as  the  building  of  the  latter  pro- 
gressed. It  must  also  be  considered  that  the  size  of  the  blocks  was 
reduced  by  cutting,  and  that  the  largest  ones  were  always  used  in 
the  lower  courses.  In  addition,  a  device  was  adopted  for  dimin- 
ishing the  weight  of  the  blocks.  As  seen  in  plates  xi  and  xii,  i,  the 
ends  of  each  block  were  hollowed  out,  and,  once  in  place,  these 
cavities  were  filled  with  small  pieces  of  stone.  This  allowed  the 
blocks  to  be  handled  with  greater  facility,  while  the  subsequent  fill- 
ing practically  restored  their  original  weight. 

The  round  and  handsomely  constructed  chuUpas  are  the  least 
numerous,  and  only  one  of  them  is  ornamented  on  the  outside.  The 
tallest  of  all  (plate  xi)  has  the  figure  of  a  lizard  carved  on  its  surface 
about  midway  between  the  base  and  the  top. 

The  condition  of  the  stone  buildings  at  Sillustani  leads  to  the  in- 
ference that  work  on  them  was  abandoned  before  completion.  This 
is  particularly  the  case  with  the  quadrangular  structures,  all  of  which 
are  unfinished.  Their  condition  is  not  the  result  of  demolition  or  of 
decay.  The  masonry  is  like  that  of  the  towers,  well  laid  and  nicely 
joined.  The  building  m,  shown  in  plates  viii,  7,  and  xiv,  2,  was  fur- 
ther advanced  in  construction  than  the  others,  part  of  its  walls  being 
8  feet  high.  Some  of  the  blocks  are  9  to  1 1  feet  long,  4  feet  thick, 
and  6^  feet  high.  Only  two  sides  were  reared,  one  of  which  measures 
not  quite  28  feet  and  the  other  more  than  35  feet  in  length.     Inside, 


$8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

and  touching  the  walls  of  the  rectangle,  is  a  circle  of  upright  slabs, 
38  inches  in  thickness,  set  without  mortar,  alongside  of  each  other. 
On  the  longer  side  of  the  rectangle  is  an  entrance*  52  inches  wide. 

Quadrangle  k  (plates  viii,  8  ;  xv,  i)  has  all  four  walls,  measur- 
ing, respectively,  17.3,  17.3,  17.4,  and  17.5  inches.  The  building, 
therefore,  is  nearly  square ;  but  the  opposite  sides  are  not  of  exactly 
equal  length,  there  being  a  difference  of  one  and  two  inches,  respec- 
tively. An  entrance  50  inches  in  width  is  provided  in  one  of  the 
walls.  The  outer  surface  of  the  stones  is  as  well  cut  and  smoothed 
as  any  in  Sillustani,  but  the  blocks  are  not  so  large  as  those  in 
building  m  (plates  vii  (3),  m ;  viii,  7  ;  xvi,  2). 

Structure  /  (plates  vii  (3),  /;  viii,  9)  is  still  less  advanced  in  con- 
struction ;  two  sides  are  partly  laid,  and  on  the  other  side  a  few 
blocks  only  are  in  position.  It  should  be  stated  that  not  a  single 
building  at  Sillustani  is  provided  with  a  foundation  ;  every  struc- 
ture rests  on  the  surface  of  the  ground,  the  size  and  weight  of  the 
stones  alone  insuring  solidity. 

Building  o  (plate  viii,  13)  is  in  as  unfinished  a  state  as  tower  b 
near  which  it  is  situated.  Only  two  feet  of  a  wall  of  cut  stone  are 
visible ;  its  average  width  is  3 1  inches.  This  structure  suggests  the 
commencement  of  a  dwelling.  It  resembles,  in  size  and  ground- 
plan,  the  houses  of  Inca  origin  which  our  excavations  brought  to 
light  at  Kasapata,  on  the  Island  of  Titicaca. 

Several  other  quadrangular  structures,  some  of  them  nearly  ob- 
literated, are  found  here  and  there  on  the  plateau.  These  differ  but 
little  from  those  described,  and,  judging  by  the  first  course  of  stones 
lying  on  the  ground,  they  were  to  have  been  built  in  the  same  man- 
ner and  of  the  same  material. 

I  have  purposely  delayed  mentioning  certain  details  in  the  con- 
struction of  the  stone  buildings  for  the  reason  that  they  exist  in 
both  the  quadrangles  and  the  towers.  First,  it  was  observed  that, 
although  the  workmanship  is  far  superior  to  that  of  any  buildings 
outside  of  actual  Inca  settlements,  it  is  not  so  accurate  as  it  appears 
to  be  —  angles  are  nearly  but  not  absolutely  true,  the  towers  are 
only  approximately  circular,  and  the  stones  themselves  not  per- 
fectly squared.  Rule  of  thumb  here  guided  the  primitive  artisan ; 
he  did  much  better  than  the  builders  of  the  Aymara  structures,  but 


BANDELIER]    ABORIGINAL  RUINS  AT  SILLUSTANI,  PERU  59 

not  SO  well  as  any  European  would  have  done.  The  moving  of  heavy 
masses  was  certainly  an  achievement,  if  we  consider  the  means  at 
the  command  of  these  builders,  but  to  compare  the  results  favor- 
ably with  European  building  of  the  time  is '  benevolent  exaggera- 
tion. Superabundance  of  leisure  was  a  prime  factor.  Where  a 
block  presented  obstacles,  the  troublesome  part  was  taken  ofT,  and 
another  stone  cut  to  fill  the  lack  (plate  ix,  5,  9).  Such  pieces  were 
not  inserted  for  decorative  effect  nor  to  increase  the  solidity  of  the 
structure ;  they  are  simply  indications  that  each  block  was  inde- 
pendently cut,  not  according  to  a  definite  plan,  but  to  suit  the  im- 
mediate occasion.  The  doorways  are  usually  an  open  space  left 
between  two  blocks  in  a  course  (plate  ix,  6,  7) ;  but  where  the  block 
was  too  high,  a  rectangular  opening  was  cut  through  it  (plate  ix, 
8).  This  shows  that  the  small  size  of  the  doorways  had  a  definite 
purpose.  In  the  quadrangular  structures  (plate  viii,  7,  8)  there 
are,  as  before  stated,  wider  entrances,  but  these  were  designed  to 
afford  access  to  round  buildings  within.  In  the  case  of  rectan- 
gular building  ;//,  this  circular  structure  had  been  commenced ;  in  k 
there  is  strong  probability  that  it  was  the  intention  to  erect  one  also. 
The  singular  edifice  i  (plate  ix,  1,2)  is  also  in  a  half-finished 
condition.  This  building  is  unique  among  the  ruins  at  Sillustani ;  it 
is  dome-shaped,  and  the  apex  of  the  cupola  approaches  a  true  arch, 
a  wedge-shaped  keystone  being  set  in  horizontally  to  complete  a 
circle  (see  plate  ix,  2).  The  structure  marked  i  is  10  feet  in  height 
and  consists  of  two  tiers,  each  of  which  has  four  niches  so  placed 
that  the  upper  ones  are  not  immediately  above  those  below.  The 
lower  tier  is  pierced  by  an  entrance  21  inches  wide.  The  inside  of 
this  building  is  lined  with  spalls  forming  a  thin,  fairly  smooth  wall. 
The  cupola  varies  in  thickness  ;  its  outer  diameter  is  about  1 2  feet, 
and  the  inside,  in  size  as  well  as  in  its  niches,  recalls  the  basements 
of  rectangular  chullpas  found  on  the  peninsula  of  Huata  in  Bolivia, 
called  Chinkana  by  the  Aymara.  Around  the  cupola  a  stone 
casing,  like  that  of  the  towers,  has  been  erected  to  an  elevation  of 
six  feet,  indicating  that  it  was  intended  as  a  facing  to  the  rubble 
core.  An  inclined  plane  2 1  feet  long,  1 2  feet  wide,  and  6  feet  high 
(where  it  abuts  against  the  armor),  shows  that  the  structure  was 
abandoned  before  completion.     The  niches  are  not  symmetrical ; 


6o  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

their  height  varies  from  40  to  44  inches,  and  other  dimensions  are 
also  unequal.  Of  the  probable  purpose  of  this  building  we  shall 
treat  later. 

There  is  another  class  of  round  buildings,  and  the  most  numer- 
ous of  all.  They  differ  from  the  chullpas  described  in  being  far 
less  elaborate  and  considerably  smaller.  Plates  viii,  6 ;  ix,  1 2,  show 
two  examples.  The  motive  in  these  is  the  same  as  in  the  towers, 
but  the  outer  finish  is  a  coating  of  white  clay,  mixed  with  grass,  and 
formed  in  irregular  cakes,  varying  in  thickness  from  two  to  three 
feet  according  to  the  structure.  One  of  these  **  white  towers  "  is 
1 3  feet  high  and  48  feet  in  circumference.  The  interior  forms  a 
vault  with  rubble  walls  8  feet  high,  7  feet  in  diameter  below,  and 
4j^  feet  at  the  top.  Where  completed,  these  white  towers  are 
closed  above  with  heavy  slabs  covered  with  rubbish  and  some  clay ; 
hence  there  is  no  neck  as  in  the  stone  chullpas,  and  the  interior  is 
an  imperfect  cupola.  We  could  not  detect  an  opening  at  the  bottom. 
The  structure  rests  on  a  base  of  well-cut  andesite  blocks  eleven 
inches  thick,  showing  that  these  clay-covered  chullpas  were  erected 
by  the  people  who  built  the  other  ones,  and  for  a  similar  purpose. 

Some  of  these  white  towers  stand  in  the  valley  near  the  cliffs 
whence  the  andesite  was  obtained,  and  on  ridges  and  slopes  round 
about.  We  could  not  examine  any  of  those  farther  away  from  Sil- 
lustani,  but  plates  viii,  10 ;  ix,  10-12,  show  the  base  and  section  of 
one  that  may  be  regarded  as  typical.  All  that  remains  of  the  lower 
portion  is  a  circle  of  rough  slabs  resting  on  four  upright  stones  three 
feet  high.  The  wall  (i  i  inches  thick  at  the  base  and  30  inches  at 
the  top)  rises  ten  feet  above  this  circle  and  is  constructed  of  rudely 
superposed  slabs  coated  inside  with  clay  mixed  with  Puna  grass. 
The  elevation  of  this  structure  on  stone  posts  may  have  been  for  the 
purpose  of  protecting  the  contents  from  moisture,  as  the  bottom  of 
the  valley  is  sometimes  flooded. 

The  much  ruined  structures  forming  group  r  (plate  vii,  3),  on  the 
extreme  northeastern  spur  of  Sillustani,  are  in  such  condition  that 
little  can  be  said  about  them.  Most  of  them  appear  to  have  been 
circular  chullpas  of  the  clay-faced  variety.  One  building  may  have 
been  a  rudely  constructed  house  of  three  or  four  rooms  and  with 
rounded  comers.     The  artifacts  found  there  were  potsherds,  both 


BANDEUER]    ABORIGINAL  RUINS  AT  SILLUSTANI,  PERU  6 1 

of  the  Cuzco  type  and  of  the  ruder  kind  attributed  generally  to 
the  Aymara  Indians.  We  also  found  ckulls  of  both  males  and 
females,  the  former  artificially  flattened  frontally. 

Finally,  on  the  ridge  south  of  the  hacienda,  there  stand  the  few 
buildings  marked  p  on  the  general  plan  (plates  vii  (3);  viii,  12). 
In  regard  to  these  I  do  not  feel  justified  in  asserting  that  they  are 
aboriginal,  nor  can  I  affirm  the  contrary.  The  walls  are  built  of 
roughly  broken  volcanic  stones  from  24  to  33  inches  wide,  laid  in 
mud.  No  tradition  as  to  their  origin  could  be  obtained,  and  while 
they  may  have  been  designed  as  Indian  dwellings,  begun  and  aban- 
doned before  completion  like  the  others  on  the  plateau,  they  may 
also  be  of  Spanish  construction. 

With  few  exceptions,  the  buildings  at  Sillustani  were  unfit  for 
abode.  Only  groups  o  and  p  (provided  the  latter  are  ancient), 
and  perhaps  some  of  group  r,  bear  the  character  of  dwellings.  All 
the  others,  except  i,  are  so  constructed  as  to  indicate  that  they 
were  designed  to  shelter  and  preserve,  as  carefully  as  possible, 
materials  of  the  nature  of  which  we  have  no  knowledge.  Had 
it  been  possible  for  us  to  open  one  or  more  of  the  white  chull- 
pas,  we  might  know  something  of  their  contents,  but  permission 
was  unobtainable.  The  belief  that  valuable  objects  of  metal  are 
therein  concealed  is  deeply  rooted  in  the  minds  of  the  people, 
although  there  is  no  authentic  recollection  of  the  finding  of  any 
**  treasure "  at  Sillustani.  Many  of  the  towers  were  partly  torn 
down  and  searched  long  ago,  but  no  tradition  in  regard  to  what  was 
found  in  them  was  obtainable  by  us.  The  universal  opinion,  pub- 
lished and  unpublished,  is  that  the  towers  of  Sillustani  were  designed 
as  sepulchers,  burial  towers,  or  funeral  monuments,  and  we  held  the 
same  opinion  ourselves. 

One  point  is  certain  :  these  towers  were,  so  to  say,  hermetically 
closed,  or  were  built  with  the  view  of  so  closing  them  as  soon  as 
filled.  It  is  also  evident  that  they  could  not  be  opened  or  entered 
except  with  considerable  difficulty,  and  that  they  were  carefully 
guarded  against  such  intrusion  is  shown  by  their  massive  construc- 
tion. The  towers  cannot  be  scaled,  and  the  aperture  above  is  too 
small  to  admit  an  adult  person.  The  opening  below  is  equally  con- 
tracted, and  if  the  interior  were  closely  packed  it  was  practically 


62  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

inaccessible.  To  break  in  from  the  outside  was  beyond  the  power 
of  Indians  within  a  reasonable  time.  Hence  the  contents  of  these 
towers  must  have  been  of  such  value  to  the  builders  that  they  ex- 
ercised every  effort  to  preserve  them,  as  is  evidenced  by  the  mas- 
siveness  of  the  walls,  the  smooth  finish  which  made  scaling  impos- 
sible, and  their  inverted  conical  shape.  Mortuary  monuments  they 
cannot  have  been  unless,  as  is  generally  supposed,  they  were  de- 
signed to  receive  a  number  of  corpses.  But  the  question  arises. 
How  could  corpses  have  been  introduced  ?  The  opening  above  is 
entirely  too  small,  and  while  the  aperture  below  might  have  given 
passage  to  an  Indian  of  small  stature,  such  a  mode  of  burial  is  com- 
pletely at  variance  with  what  is  known  of  the  mortuary  customs  of 
both  the  Quichua  and  the  Aymara ;  and  to  fill  the  chamber  with 
dead  bodies  would  have  been  a  very  long  and  arduous  task. 

A  question  intimately  related  to  that  of  the  contents  of  these 
towers  is  that  of  the  builders  of  the  Sillustani  structures.  There 
is  no  known  tradition  in  which  the  place  is  mentioned,  and  the  name 
Sillustani  nowhere  appears  in  books  or  documents  of  the  period  of 
early  Spanish  colonization.  Hence  it  might  be  supposed  that  these 
buildings,  like  those  of  Tiahuanaco,  must  be  attributed  to  some 
tribe  the  record  of  which  is  lost.  Although  we  search  in  vain  for 
data  in  regard  to  Sillustani,  we  meet  with  positive  information  con- 
cerning a  site  called  Hattin-Colla,  This  place  (or  rather  Kolla) 
lay  close  to  Umayo,  and  while  there  exist  some  ruins  there  which 
Squier  has  described,^  nowhere  in  the  vicinity  are  there  any  of  the 
type  and  importance  of  those  at  Sillustani.  Cieza  de  Leon,  who 
visited  Hatun-Kolla  in  1 540,  speaks  of  it  as  follows  : 

"From  Pucara  to  HatuncoUa  there  are  something  like  fifteen  leagues; 
in  their  neighborhood  are  some  villages,  as  Nicasio,  Xullaca  and  others. 
HatuncoUa,  in  times  past,  was  the  chief  thing  of  the  Collas  .  .  .  and 
afterwards  the  Incas  embellished  the  village  with  an  increased  number  of 
edifices  and  a  great  number  of  depositories,  where,  by  their  command, 
was  put  the  tribute  that  was  brought  from  the  country  around. ' '   .   .  .' 

Garcilasso  de  la  Vega  also  mentions  the  construction  by  the  Incas 
of  edifices  at  Hatun-Kolla.' 


1  Peruy  p.  384  et  seq. 

«  Primera  Parte  de  la  Crdnica  del  Peru^  cap.  Cll,  p.  445. 

s  Comentarios  reales,  Primera  parte,  1609,  lib.  ii,  cap.  xix,  f.  45. 


BANDELIER]    ABORIGINAL  RUINS  AT  SILLUSTANI,  PERU  63 

Heirera  certainly  copied  Cieza  de  Leon,  and  perhaps  other 
sources  of  which,  as  yet,  we  have  no  knowledge.  He  mentions, 
although  not  very  clearly,  the  construction  by  the  Incas  of  edifices 
in  what  was  then  called  Collasuyu^  and  it  seems  clear  that  these 
structures  were  in  the  vicinity  of  Hatun-Kolla. 

The  architecture  and  masonry  at  Sillustani  bear  the  stamp  of 
Inca  work.  They  resemble  structural  remains  at  Huanuco  in  central 
Peru,  on  the  island  of  Koati,  and  also  the  quadrangular  towers  of 
well-fitted  stones  at  Kalaki  on  the  shores  of  Lake  Titicaca.  The 
edifices  in  the  latter  two  localities  are  clearly  of  Inca  construction  — 
there  is  abundant  evidence  to  that  effect.  In  regard  to  Huanuco 
it  is  stated  that  the  buildings  (of  large,  nicely  fitted,  and  smoothed 
blocks)  are  also  of  Inca  origin.  The  Indians  who  inhabited  Hatun- 
Kolla,  before  the  Inca  came  in  contact  with  them,  built  with  much 
less  care  and  regularity.  It  is  more  than  likely  that  by  the  struc- 
tures at  Hatun-KoUa  those  at  Sillustani  are  meant  by  Cieza.  The 
two  places  are  very  near  each  other,  and  the  remains  of  Hatun- 
Kolla  can  not  be  compared  in  importance  with  the  former.  Hence, 
also,  it  is  not  improbable  that  the  name  Sillustani  is  comparatively 
modem,  otherwise  Cieza  would  certainly  have  known  of  it,  for  he 
must  have  seen  the  ruins  when  at  Hatun-Kolla.  Even  the  white 
chuUpas  are  of  Inca  origin.' 

*  Historia  general  de  los  Hechos  de  los  Castellanos  en  las  Islas  y  la  Tierra  firme  del 
Mar  Ociano,  1726,  vol.  ii,  libro  il  of  dec.  v,  p.  73.  The  Jesuit  Beraab^  Cobo,  who 
lived  in  the  Peruvian  and  Bolivian  highlands  itom  1615  to  1618  (or  1621,  if  Arequipa  is 
included  in  the  sierra,  by  Enrique  Torres  Saldamando,  Los  Antiguos  Jesuiias  del  Peru^ 
Lima,  1885,  p.  99),  also  mentions  ancient  buildings  formerly  serving  as  storage  rooms,  in 
hb  Historia  del  Nuevo  Mundo  (Sevilla,  1902,  vol.  ill,  lib.  XII,  cap.  xxx,  p.  254)  : 
*<  EdiBcaban  de  ordinario  estos  dep6sitos  i  almacenes  fuera  de  poblado,  en  lugares 
altos,  frescos  y  airosos,  cerca  del  camino  real,  cuyas  ruinas  vemos  hoy  al  rededor  de  los 
pueblos  en  los  collados  y  laderas  de  los  cerros  ;  eran  muchas  casas  cuadradas  y  pequefias 
como  aposentos  ordinarios,  a  manera  de  torrecillas,  desviades  unas  de  otras  dos  i  tres 
pasos  y  puestas  en  hilera  con  mucho  6rden  y  proporcion  ;  en  partes  eran  mas,  y  en  partes 
menos,  segun  la  necesidad  lo  pedia ;  .  .  .  A  veces  eran  las  hileras  de  veinte,  treinta, 
cincuenta,  y  mas  casas,  y  como  estaban  en  sitios  altos  y  por  6rden,  parecian  bien,  pues 
aun  lo  parecen  hoy  las  paredes  que  en  algunas  partes  estan  en  pi6  y  tan  enteras  que  no 
les  falta  m4s  que  el  techo.  El  asenta  en  lugares  altos  estos  dep6sitos  lo  hacian  los  Indios 
para  que  lo  que  en  ellos  se  guardaba  estuviese  defendido  de  las  aguas  y  humedad  y  seguro 
de  toda  corrupcion."  Cobo  also  speaks  of  larger  and  smaller  depositos^  but  does  not 
mention  circular  ones. 

*  Cieza,  Primer  a  Parte,  p.  429  :  <<  Enlo  que  llaman  Guanuco  habia  una  cassa  real  de 
admirable  edificio,  porque  les  piedras  eras  grandes  y  estaban  muy  solidamente  asentadas.'' 


64  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

I  would  also  add  that  the  lai^er  proportion  of  the  potsherds 
found  are  of  the  type  of  Cuzco  pottery,  which  is  sui  generis  among 
Peruvian  and  Bolivian  ceramics.  This  is  another  indication  in  favor 
of  the  assumption  that  the  builders  of  Sillustani  were  Incas. 

Stone  towers  as  military  constructions  are  not  common  among 
the  ruins  of  Peru  and  Bolivia.  There  are  a  few  on  the  coast,  in 
positions  indicating  that  they  were  lookouts.  It  is  manifest  that  those 
at  Sillustani  were  not  for  observation,  still  less  for  residence.  They 
must  have  been  intended  for  either  burial-towers  or  store-houses. 

The  Aymara  Indians  sometimes  buried  their  dead  in  structures, 
resembling  quadrangular  one-story  towers,  built  of  mud  and  rubble,^ 
also  of  cakes  of  clay  mixed  with  straw,  just  as  are  the  walls  of  the 
white  chullpas.  Rectangular,  but  not  circular,  chullpas  are  very 
numerous  on  the  Bolivian  tableland,  and  in  our  examination  of 
hundreds  of  them  we  invariably  found  that  they  had  simply  been 
the  dwellings  of  the  people,  whose  only  building  materials  are  stone 
and  mud,  for  wood  is  entirely  beyond  reach  in  those  vast  treeless 
expanses.  But  the  Aymara,  like  the  forest  tribes  on  the  eastern 
slope  of  the  cordillera,  in  the  great  basin  of  the  Beni,  to  this  day, 
formerly  buried  their  dead  beneath  the  floors  of  their  dwellings^  con- 
tinuing to  live  directly  over  the  remains  of  their  departed.  Even  when 
a  chullpa  becomes  deserted,  it  is  still  used  for  burial.  A  certain 
number  of  the  white  chullpas  at  Sillustani  are  completed  and  still 
absolutely  closed,  hence  were  not  used  as  dwellings.  The  Incas 
buried  their  dead  in  a  sitting  posture,  and  separately.     Moreover, 

He  also  mentions  :  «y  habia  dep6sitos  7  aposentos  de  los  ingas,  muy  bastecidos."  It 
should  be  observed  that  the  tendency  of  the  Spanish  chroniclers  is  to  attribute  to  the  Incas 
all  edifices  that  are  unusually  well  finished.  Garcilasso  de  la  Vega  (Histoire  des  Incas, 
vol.  II,  p.  274)  says  in  regard  to  Hu&nuco :  ''  lis  y  fondirent  une  Maison  de  Vierges 
choisies."  Herrera  {Historia  general,  vol.  Ill,  dec.  vil,  lib.  iv,  p.  69)  copies  Cieza, 
adding  slightly  to  the  exaggerations  of  the  latter  and  of  Garcilasso.  See  also  Squier, 
Peru,  pp.  215-216  et  seq. 

>  Cieza  (Primera  Parte,  p.  443)  describes  clearly  the  chullpas  of  the  Collao.  "  Por 
las  vegas  y  llanos  cerca  de  les  pueblos  estaban  las  sepulturas  destes  indios  hechas  como 
pequeftas  torres  de  quatro  esquinas,  unas  de  piedra  sola  y  otras  de  piedra  y  tierra,  algunas 
anchas  y  otras  angostas ;  en  fin,  como  tenian  la  posibilidad  las  personas  que  las  edificaban. 
Los  chapiteles  de  algunos  estaban  cubiertos  con  paja,  otros  con  unas  losas  grandes ;  y  pare- 
d6me  que  tenian  las  puertas  estas  sepulturas  hacia  la  parte  de  levante.''  Cieza  did  not 
examine  closely  the  structures  he  describes,  not  having  time  for  it ;  yet  it  is  clear  that  he 
did  not  mean  the  edifices  at  Sillustani. 


BANDKUER]    ABORIGINAL  RUINS  AT  SILLUSTANI,  PERU  6$ 

as  above  pointed  out,  the  corpses  could  not  have  been  placed  in  the 
towers  from  above,  and  from  below  it  would  have  been  a  most  tedi- 
ous and  difficult  task  to  fill  the  chamber  with  squatting  dead  through 
the  tiny  doorways,  which  seem  to  be  made  rather  for  taking  out 
small  objects.  The  open  space  in  the  second  tier  afforded  neither 
shelter  nor  convenience  for  human  remains. 

The  statement  by  Cieza  that  the  Inca  erected  depositaries  near 
Hatun-Kolla  is  significant.  The  Sillustani  buildings  cannot  have 
been  anything  else  but  such  depositories.  There  is  no  evidence  of 
their  having  been  depositories  of  the  dead,  and  such  was  not  the 
mode  of  burial  either  of  the  Aymara  or  of  the  Cuzco  people ;  hence 
if  they  were  depositories,  it  was  of  stores.  The  tribute  which  the 
Inca  obtained  on  the  tableland  consisted  of  what  could  be  raised  on 
it,  that  is,  potatoes  (made  into  chufiu),  oca^  quinua,  and  a  little  maize. 
The  bottle-shaped  interior  of  the  chullpas  is  as  if  made  for  receiving 
just  such  produce.  A  chullpa  could  readily  be  filled  from  above  with 
chuiiu  and  the  like  by  pouring  it  through  the  orifice,  and  when  the 
stores  had  to  be  used  they  could  as  easily  be  extracted  from  the 
small  opening  afler  removal  of  the  block  which  closed  it. 

To  those  not  familiar  with  the  country  and  with  the  mode  of 
life  of  its  aborigines,  it  may  seem  improbable  that  such  elaborate 
structures  should  have  been  erected  simply  for  preserving  potatoes 
and  other  produce,  but  before  the  Spanish  colonization,  and  even 
to-day,  food  was  and  is  much  more  important  to  the  Indians  in  these 
cold  and  barren  regions  than  what  now  is  called  treasure.  The  Inca 
had  no  standard  medium  of  exchange,  no  currency  or  "  money." 
Gold  and  silver  were  less  indispensable  to  them  than  potatoes, 
quinua,  and  other  products,  for  they  could  use  the  former  only  for 
decoration  and  as  ceremonial  offerings,  whereas  they  depended  on  the 
vegetables  for  subsistence.  Sillustani,  therefore,  as  Cieza  indicates, 
consisted  of  a  cluster  of  storehouses  erected  by  the  Inca  within  the 
Aymara  range  for  preserving  tribute.  From  the  Aymara  of  Hatun- 
Kolla  the  Inca  had  nothing  to  fear,  and  against  extensive  depreda- 
tion the  massive  character  of  the  storage  tower  was  sufficient  pro- 
tection, so  that  it  was  not  even  necessary  to  guard  or  garrison  the 
site.  Such  Inca  magazines  were  established  at  intervals  through- 
out Peru  and  they  were  always  associated  with  buildings  of  a  cere- 
monial character. 

AM.  A1«TM.,  N.  S.,  7-5 


66  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

To  these  latter  the  structure  marked  i  (plates  vii  (3);  ix,  i,  2) 
must  be  referred.  Its  niches,  its  smaller  size  and  larger  entrance, 
make  it  appear  as  an  Inca  place  of  worship.  On  the  peninsula  of 
Huata,  in  Bolivia,  there  are  structures  with  an  analogous  interior  plan, 
but  they  are  built  underground,  beneath  square  towers  of  Inca  make. 
These  ckinkanas,  as  the  Aymara  call  them,  therefore  appear  to  have 
been  storage  houses  and  chapels  combined.  At  Sillustani  a  sub- 
terranean structure  was  out  of  the  question.  Building  i  was  a  place 
of  worship  such  as  we  are  told  (with  much  exaggeration  as  to  size 
and  decoration)  everywhere  accompanied  Inca  storehouses. 

The  white  towers  are  also  of  Inca  construction.  They  could 
have  been  much  more  rapidly  built  than  the  towers  of  stone,  and  it 
is  therefore  possible  that  they  were  erected  as  temporary  store- 
houses until  the  more  solid  ones  were  ready  for  use.  The  quad- 
rangular structures  were  in  part  magazines  also,  and  in  part  (as  o 
and  possibly  p)  dwellings.  There  was  no  need  of  permanent  mili- 
tary occupancy  of  the  site.  Inca  **  garrisons  "  nowhere  were  kept, 
not  even  in  the  great  refuge-place  of  Cuzco,  the  Sacsahuaman, 

As  already  stated,  work  at  Sillustani  was  interrupted  and  aban- 
doned for  some  cause  or  other  and  never  resumed.  This  may 
have  been  in  consequence  of  the  appearance  of  the  Spaniards  at 
Cuzco  in  1534,  but  it  is  more  likely  that  the  abandonment  occurred 
before  or  during  the  time  that  warfare  between  the  Inca  of  Quito 
and  those  of  Cuzco  had  thrown  in  confusion  everything  in  the  south. 
Under  any  circumstance  it  is  probable  that  work  on  the  edifices  was 
begun  in  the  second  half  of  the  fifteenth  century  and  abandoned 
in  the  first  third  of  the  sixteenth.^ 

We  have  yet  to  consider  another  class  of  structures — those 
marked  q  on  plates  vii  (3);  viii,  12,  of  which  there  exist  a  group  of 

1  The  series  of  Inca  head  war-chiefs  becomes  positive  only  with  Tupac  Yupanqui,  the 
third  from  the  last  (counting  Huascar  as  the  last  and  ignoring  Ata  Hualpa,  who  was  an  In. 
dian  from  Quito).  Previous  to  Tupac  Yupanqui  there  is  contradiction  and  confusion  among 
the  chroniclers  and  in  the  traditions.  Tupac  Yupanqui  subjugated  the  Collas,  or,  what  is 
just  as  likely,  they  confederated,  in  his  time,  with  the  Cuzco  tribe.  This  took  place  in 
the  second  half  of  the  fifteenth  century.  To  him  also  are  attributed  the  buildings  said 
to  have  existed  at  or  near  Hatun-KoIIa.  The  appearance  of  the  Quito  warriors  at  Cuzco 
and  the  great  confusion  occasioned  thereby  among  the  Incas  occurred  a  few  years  prior 
to  1 53 1,  when  Pizarro  landed  on  the  Peruvian  coast.  Quotations  are  superfluous,  the  facts 
being  too  well  established. 


eUlLEMNQ    BLOCK   AND  QUADRANGULAR    STRUCTURE 


BANDDJER]    ABORIGINAL  RUINS  AT  SILLUSTANI,  PERU  67 

four  at  the  foot  of  the  cliff  on  which  the  largest  chullpa  {a)  stands, 
while  an  isolated  one  is  on  the  slope  of  the  northeastern  promontory. 
These  are  called  inH-huatana,  translated  *'  place  where  the  sun  is 
tied  up."  Leaving  aside  etymology,  it  first  strikes  one  that  these 
circles  are  on  the  flanks  instead  of  on  the  plateau,  where  they  might 
be  expected  if  designed  for  astronomical  purposes.  It  is  also  singular 
that  they  are  not  truly  circular  (see  plate  vii,  figure  i) ;  indeed^ 
they  do  not  even  approach  geometrical  accuracy.  The  "  circle " 
proper  is  formed  by  upright  slabs,  little  worked  if  at  all.  The  total 
length  of  the  curve  from  ^  to/is  84  feet,  and  the  average  height  of 
the  stones  three  feet.  Around  this  "  circle  "  was  a  ring  of  handsomely 
cut  slabs  laid  flat  and  having  an  aggregate  width  of  about  two  feet. 
Most  of  this  stone  ring  is  destroyed,  but  what  remains  distinctly 
shows  a  tendency  to  ornamentation  (plate  vii,  i,  2).  The  entrance 
{b\  with  its  upright  stone-posts  (r,  d),  is  a  little  more  than  two  feet 
wide,  and  the  well-cut  block  in  front  of  it  has  two  low  steps.  The 
whole  is  not  symmetrical,  but  is  fairly  accurate  for  work  done  by 
"rule  of  thumb." 

It  is  difficult  to  understand  how  such  contrivances  as  these  cir- 
cles, situated  as  they  are,  and  of  such  inaccuracy  in  form,  could 
have  been  of  use  for  astronomical  purposes.  It  is  conceivable  that 
a  slender  cone  (tall  as  at  Cacha,  or  a  mere  stub  as  at  Pisac)  might 
have  been  serviceable  for  approximately  determining  equinoxes  by 
noting  the  days  when  the  sun  shed  its  full  light  on  the  top  about 
noontime ;  but,  aside  from  the  fact  that  it  is  very  doubtful  if  the 
Indians  of  Peru  ever  paid  much  attention  to  the  equinoxes,*  the 
** circles"  at  Sillustani  exhibit  nothing  to  indicate  that  they  could 
have  been  used  for  such  a  purpose. 

It  is  equally  difficult  to  conceive  that  the  circular  structures  could 
have  had  other  than  a  ceremonial  object,  but  what  rites  were  per- 
formed within  them  can  only  be  conjectured.  There  are  a  number 
of  such  circles,  less  carefully  built,  on  the  height  called  Kajopi, 
above  the  village  of  Huata  in  Bolivia.     Kajopi  is  1,600  feet  above 


^  The  equinoxes  are  not  well  marked  by  meteorological  phenomena  in  the  highlands 
of  Peru  and  Bolivia.  The  Indians  barely  pay  attention  to  them,  whereas  the  solstices 
are  more  easily  noted.  What  Garcilasso  and  others  say  of  ceremonies  performed  at  the 
time  of  the  equinoxes  must  be  taken  with  allowance. 


68  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

Lake  Titicaca,  toward  which  it  descends  in  partly  vertical  cliffs. 
The  top  is  to-day  a  resort  for  wizards,  and  the  circles  (which,  be  it 
said,  lie  entirely  on  the  inclines  and  therefore  could  not  have  been  of 
any  use  for  astronomical  determinations)  are  regarded  with  super- 
stitious dread,  offerings  constantly  being  made  there.  The  circles 
at  Sillustani  consequently  seem  to  have  been  for  some  sacrificial 
purpose,  and  as  such  I  shall  regard  them  until  evidence  to  the  con- 
trary is  presented.  These  and  the  small  building  (i)  appear  to  have 
been  the  only  structures  at  Sillustani  designed  for  ceremonial  use. 

Sillustani,  therefore,  presents  the  characteristics  not  of  some 
ruin  of  very  ancient  date  but  of  a  cluster  of  buildings  reared  by  and  for 
the  Inca  of  Cuzco  for  storage,  and  not  earlier  than  the  latter  part  of 
the  sixteenth  century.  Few  of  the  better  constructed  edifices  are 
finished.  The  general  condition,  the  evidences  of  mechanical  con- 
trivances for  hoisting,  the  building  stones  abandoned  by  the  road- 
side while  under  transportation,  all  prove  that  the  work  suddenly 
ceased  for  some  cause  unknown,  but  which  was  not  necessarily 
the  appearance  of  the  Spaniards.  Sillustani  is  perhaps  one  of 
the  most  instructive  sites  at  which  can  be  studied  the  strides  made 
by  the  Inca  in  the  art  of  building.  The  ceremonial  structures,  espe- 
cially /,  are  of  particular  interest  as  the  best-preserved  specimens  of 
Inca  religious  architecture  thus  far  examined. 


QUADRANOULAR   STRUCTUne    AND   WHITE    TOWERS 


AN  OJIBWAY  CEREMONY 
By  D.  I.  BUSHNELL,  Jr 

During  the  afternoon  of  October  5,  1899,  while  making  a 
canoe  trip  on  the  lakes  and  streams  of  northern  Minnesota  and 
Hunter's  island,  Canada,  I  was  enabled  to  witness  an  interesting 
ceremony  of  the  Ojibways,  held  at  one  of  their  small  settlements 
on  the  shore  of  Basswood  lake.  The  boundary  line  between 
Canada  and  the  United  States  passes  through  this  lake,  but  whether 
the  settlement  was  situated  to  the  north  or  to  the  south  of  the 
border  I  was  unable  to  ascertain. 

The  site  of  the  village  was  well  chosen,  being  situated  on  rising 
ground  at  the  head  of  a  small  bay,  protected  from  the  northern  and 
western  winds  by  dense  underbrush  and  timber.  The  wigwams 
were  of  two  forms,  circular  and  oval ;  all  were  constructed  of  strips 
of  birch-bark  attached  to  a  framework  of  poles,  the  lower  ends  of 
which  were  planted  in  the  ground.  On  the  shore  were  twelve 
birch-bark  canoes,  only  two  of  which  were  decorated  —  one  with 
seven  vermilion  spots,  about  four  inches  in  diameter,  along  each 
side  ;  the  other  with  four  crosses  painted  in  blue,  one  on  either  side 
of  each  end.  Toward  the  east,  not  more  than  a  hundred  yards 
away,  were  a  number  of  graves  with  their  peculiar  box-like  covers 
of  hewn  logs. 

Beyond  the  wigwams,  a  short  distance  from  the  lake  shore,  was 
the  site  selected  by  the  Indians  for  their  ceremony.  It  had  first 
been  cleared  of  brush  and  grass,  then  a  circle  of  pine  and  cedar 
boughs,  some  forty  feet  in  diameter  and  two  or  three  feet  high,  had 
been  formed.  The  circle  had  only  one  opening  or  entrance,  which 
was  toward  the  south.  A  few  feet  from  the  entrance,  toward  the 
east,  on  the  outer  edge  of  the  circle,  a  rudely  carved  wooden  rep- 
resentation of  a  kingfisher,  the  totem  of  the  sub-chief  who  resided 
there,  had  been  placed  on  the  top  of  a  tamarack  pole  twelve  or  fif- 
teen feet  high.     The  center  of  the  circle  was  occupied  by  a  large 

69 


\ 


70  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

drum  surrounded  by  several  men  and  boys  who  beat  it  in  unison 
and  with  great  vigor. 

Within  the  circle  a  single  row  of  mats  had  been 'placed  on  the 
ground  next  to  the  pine  and  cedar  boughs.  The  men  were  seated 
on  the  western,  the  women  and  children  on  the  eastern  side.  A 
pine  log,  the  seat  of  honor,  was  placed  on  the  northeastern  side,  and 
upon  it  sat  the  old  sub-chief,  Wahg^stkeemunsit,  who  was  later 
joined  by  my  guide,  Eniwewdhah. 

Near  the  entrance  stood  a  young  man,  who  acted  as  master  of 
ceremonies,  to  whom  I  shall  refer  as  Keezhik.  He  held  a  piece  of 
buckskin,  about  two  or  three  feet  in  size,  one  side  of  which  was 
covered  with  large  eagle  feathers  placed  in  rows.  Attached  to  two 
comers  were  strips  of  skin  three  feet  or  more  in  length  and  an  inch 
in  width.  This  apron,  for  such  it  closely  resembled,  was  called 
chippeezung  by  the  Ojibways.  As  the  ceremony  progressed  it  be- 
came evident  that  Keezhik  alone  was  intrusted  with  the  care  of  the 
feather-covered  apron,  which  appeared  to  have  been  highly  prized 
and  so  cared  for  that  as  each  dance  was  finished  it  was  hastily  re- 
turned  to  him. 

All  being  in  readiness,  the  boys  and  men,  several  in  number, 
began  beating  the  drum,  and  the  young  man  carrying  the  chippee- 
zung entered  the  circle  and,  passing  from  left  to  right,  stopped 
before  the  first  woman  to  the  left  of  the  sub-chief.  She  immedi- 
ately jumped  up  and  assisted  him  in  fastening  the  apron  around  her 
waist,  allowing  it  to  hang  down  behind.  As  soon  as  it  was  in 
position  the  woman  commenced  to  dance,  and  immediately  two  men 
who  were  sitting  opposite  her  arose.  They  then  danced  round 
the  circle  four  times,  always  remaining  separated  and  never  touching 
one  another.  When  the  dancer  stopped  at  her  seat  within  the 
circle,  the  woman  to  her  left  assisted  in  removing  the  chippeezung 
and  immediately  carried  it  to  Keezhik,  who  during  the  dance 
remained  standing  near  the  entrance  to  the  circle. 

The  next  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  were  devoted  to  talking  and 
laughing ;  apparently  all  were  enjoying  the  event. 

Suddenly  the  drumming  was  resumed  and  the  sound  of  voices 
ceased,  for  the  ceremony  was  to  be  repeated.  Keezhik  entered 
the  circle  and,  passing  from  left  to  right,  stood  before  the  woman  to 


iHffliii]  -A^  OJIBWAY  CEREMONY  Jt 

^  left  of  the  one  wrho  had  previously  danced.  She  arose  and  as- 
istcd  in  listening  the  strings  of  the  chippeczung  around  her  waist 
The  suae  two  men  ivho  had  danced  before  repeated  the  peHbr- 
nance,  and  all  passed  round  the  drum  four  times.  When  the  woman 
■topped  at  her  place,  the  one  next  to  her,  toward  the  entrance, 
untied  die  chippeezung^  and  carried  it  to  Keezhik.  After  five  or 
ten  minutes'  intermission  the  ceremony  was  repeated,  and  thus  it 
continued  until  ax  women  had  danced.  At  one  time  a  young  girl 
danced,  but  as  she  was  rather  small  the  chippeezui^  would  have 
touched  the  ground  had  it  been  tied  around  her  waist ;  hence  it 
vas  fastened  around  her  neck  and  hung  down  in  front 

All  the  Indians  present  with  the  exception  of  Eniweweihah 
were  said  to  have  belonged  to  the  clan  which  has  for  its  totem  the 
longfisber  —  no  others  were  expected  to  participate  in  the  cere- 
mony. In  other  words,  the  Kingfisher  people  were  holding  a 
reunion.  It  was  therefore  considered  by  Eniweweihah  a  great 
honor  to  be  invited  by  Wahgistkeemunsit  to  dance,  and  still 
greater  was  the  honor  to  have  Wahgistkeemunsit  tie  with  his  own 
hands  the  strings  of  the  chippeezung.  He  then  danced  as  had  the 
others.  During  the  dance  all  who  passed  round  the  circle  did  so 
from  left  to  right,  that  is  with  their  tight  side  toward  the  drum. 
During  every  dance  one  or  more  would  sing  or  chant. 

Eniweweihah  was  the  last  to  dance,  and  when  he  had  returned 
to  his  seat  upon  the  log,  Wahgistkeemunsit  arose  and,  taking  a  step 
forward,  addressed  the  gathering.  While  he  spoke  no  other  sound 
was  heard.  Although  an  old  man,  his  voice  was  strong  and  clear ; 
his  gestures  were  few  but  gracefully  made  ;  his  bearing  was  that  of 
a  leader  accustomed  to  commanding  respect  and  attention.  Al- 
though the  writer  understood  but  few  of  his  words,  it  was  appar- 
ent that  those  who  fully  understood  him  were  greatly  impressed. 
All  Fcmained  attentive  listeners,  hardly  taking  their  eyes  from  him 
while  he  stood  before  them. 

Later  I  was  informed  by  Eniweweihah  of  the  purport  of  the 
speech.  First  he  had  spoken  of  their  blessings  and  misfortunes 
since  they  had  met  during  the  previous  autumn  ;  of  the  friend  s  who 
had  died  during  that  interval ;  then  he  expressed  his  desire  and 
l»ope  that  all   present  might  come  together  again,  and  he  asked 


72  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

them  to  seek  their  friends  and  bring  them  when  they  returned  the 
following  autumn.  He  hoped  all  might  be  prosperous  and  well 
during  the  coming  seasons,  and  that  they  might  be  spared  to  meet 
again. 

Keezhik  then  entered  the  circle,  bearing  two  large  copper  ket- 
tles with  their  contents  steaming.  He  had  taken  them  from  the 
larger  of  the  long  wigwams,  in  which  they  had  been  prepared  by 
several  old  women  whom  I  afterward  saw.  By  the  time  Keezhik 
had  placed  the  kettles  on  the  mat  before  the  log  seat  and  removed 
the  covers,  every  man,  woman,  and  child  within  the  circle  had  pro- 
duced either  a  tin  plate  or  a  sheet  of  birch-bark  upon  which  to  re- 
ceive his  portion  of  the  food.  Wahgistkeemunsit  was  the  first  to  be 
served ;  after  him  came  Eniweweihah,  then  the  men,  boys,  women, 
and  young  children  in  the  order  named.  All  remained  seated,  and 
Keezhik  passed  from  one  to  another  until  every  person  was  served. 
One  of  the  kettles  contained  moose  meat  and  rice  boiled  together 
until  very  thick  ;  the  other  held  a  stew  of  dried  blueberries.  We 
left  while  they  were  still  within  the  circle  enjoying  their  repast. 

A  few  days  later  the  settlement  was  again  visited,  when  we 
found  that  after  the  conclusion  of  the  ceremonies  many  of  the  In- 
dians had  returned  to  their  homes  on  the  lakes  to  the  north  and 
west,  so  that  few  remained  at  the  scene  of  the  recent  gathering.  It 
was  observed,  however,  that  Wahgistkeemunsit  and  six  or  seven 
others  who  had  been  within  the  circle  during  the  dance,  were  pres- 
ent within  the  largest  wigwam,  the  interior  of  which  presented  an 
interesting  aspect.  It  was  more  spacious  than  structures  of  that 
type  usually  are,  being  some  eighteen  feet  in  length  and  probably 
half  as  wide.  Along  the  central  line  on  the  ground  were  four  small 
fires,  the  smoke  from  which  found  egress  through  an  opening  at  the 
top.  The  several  women  present  were  making  moccasins  of  buck- 
skin, and  the  men  were  equally  busy  smoking  their  pipes.  Some 
well-made  mats  were  spread  on  the  ground  near  the  walls,  forming 
seats  for  all. 

In  one  comer  of  the  wigwam  was  the  drum  which  had  been 
used  during  the  dance.  This  consisted  of  an  ordinary  wooden  tub, 
about  thirty  inches  in  diameter  and  two  feet  deep,  over  which  a 


BUSHNELL]  AN  OJIBWAY  CEREMONY  73 

piece  of  untanned  moose  hide  had  been  stretched  and  dried.  The 
outside  of  the  tub,  or  drum,  was  covered  with  pieces  of  cloth  of  dif- 
ferent colors,  and  around  the  upper  edge  was  a  heavy  fringe  of 
colored  yam.  Attached  to  the  cloth  covering  were  four  bags  or 
pouches,  measuring  five  by  seven  inches,  which  faced  the  cardinal 
points  when  the  drum  was  in  use.  The  designs  worked  in  colored 
bands  upon  the  bags  were  very  interesting.  The  decoration  on  the 
bag  toward  the  east  was  a  kingfisher  encircled  by  a  floral  design. 
According  to  their  legends,  the  clan  having  the  kingfisher  for  its 
totem  formerly  lived  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  country,  near  the 
"great  water,"  for  which  reason  the  kingfisher  bag  was  placed  on 
the  drum  so  as  to  face  the  east.  The  bag  on  the  southern  side  was 
decorated  with  the  figure  of  a  man  worked  in  white  beads,  because, 
they  say,  the  first  white  man  to  visit  them  came  from  the  south. 
The  bag  toward  the  west  had  four  figures  worked  in  blue  beads, 
three  men  and  one  woman,  but  it  was  not  possible  for  the  writer 
to  ascertain  the  meaning  of  this  design.  The  figure  on  the  bag  to 
the  north  represented  a  man  in  red  beads,  and  according  to  Eniwe- 
weihah  referred  to  the  "  fire  in  the  north,"  the  aurora  borealis. 

At  the  intermediate  points  between  the  cardinal  directions  as  rep- 
resented by  the  bags,  that  is,  toward  the  northeast,  southeast,  south- 
west, and  northwest,  were  sticks,  four  feet  high,  stuck  into  the 
ground  against  the  drum.  A  few  inches  from  them,  away  from  the 
drum,  where  four  others,  slightly  higher,  with  the  upper  part  bent 
outward  and  with  several  small  brass  bells  fastened  on  the  concave 
side.  Each  of  the  eight  sticks  was  covered  with  mink  skin.  The 
sticks  used  in  beating  the  drum  were  somewhat  more  than  two  feet 
in  length ;  their  handles  were  of  smooth,  plain  wood,  and  to  the 
other  end  were  attached  rolls  of  mink  skin  five  or  six  inches  in 
length.  When  the  drum  was  struck  a  muffled  sound  was  produced. 
The  writer  succeeded  in  obtaining  two  of  the  four  beaded  bags,  but 
they  were  not  removed  from  the  drum  until  the  women  had  made 
exact  drawings  of  each  on  pieces  of  birch-bark,  probably  to  enable 

them  to  make  others  to  take  their  places. 

Florence,  Italy, 
November,  1904. 


A  TALE   IN   THE   HUDSON   RIVER   INDIAN 

LANGUAGE 

By  J.  DYNELEY  PRINCE 

The  following  text  is  philologically  of  the  utmost  importance, 
because  in  it  we  have  what  is  probably  the  last  echo  of  the  lan- 
guage formerly  used  by  the  Mohican  Indians  whose  original  habitat 
was  along  the  shores  of  our  own  Hudson  river. 

It  is  well  known  that  an  extensive  body  of  these  people  was 
settled  for  many  years  at  Stockbridge,  Mass.,  where  Jonathan  Ed- 
wards, Jr,  studied  and  practically  mastered  their  speech.^  The  mem- 
bers of  this  sub-tribe  were  first  transferred  from  Stockbridge  to  a 
New  York  reservation,  thence  to  Kansas,  and  have  now  found 
their  final  resting  place  on  the  so-called  Stockbridge  Reservation 
at  Red  Springs,  Wisconsin,  where  some  four  hundred  survivors 
still  reside.  Driven  from  one  place  to  another  among  alien  races 
as  they  have  been,  it  is  indeed  surprising  that  there  still  remain 
members  of  the  colony  who  know  anything  of  their  earlier  lan- 
guage. A  few  of  them,  however,  all  old  men  and  of  failing  mem- 
ory, can  still  speak  Mohican,  and  it  was  from  one  of  these  aged 
members  that  Mr  J.  F.  Estes,  an  educated  Dakota  Indian  with  no 
knowledge  of  the  Mohican  language,  obtained  for  me  the  following 
text  and  free  translation.  With  the  exception  of  the  few  broken 
words  gathered  by  Mr  Frank  G.  Speck  in  Kent,  Litchfield  county. 
Conn.,  this  is  apparently  the  only  printed  specimen  extant  of  the 
modem  Mohican  idiom.  Mr  Speck's  material  I  have  codified  and 
analyzed  in  our  joint  paper  "  Dying  American  Speech  Echoes  from 
Connecticut"  *  I  regard  it  as  most  fortunate,  therefore,  that  I  have 
been  able  to  obtain  this  longer  connected  specimen  of  a  language 
which  is  historically  so  interesting  and  which  in  a  few  years'  time 
will  be  quite  extinct 

^See  Pilling,  Bibliography  of  the  Algonquian  Languages ^  s.  v.  J.  £kl wards,  Jr. 
and  J.  Sergeant. 

^Proc  Amer.  Philos.  Soc.,  xui,  pp.  346-352. 

74 


PRINCX]  HUDSON  RIVER  INDIAN  LANGUAGE  75 

Mr  Estes  has  written  out  the  tale  in  the  Dakota  system  of  or- 
thography, the  key  to  which  is  as  follows : 

a  =B  ah.  H  sss  the  French  nasal  -n, 

^  as  in  English.  0,  p,  as  in  English. 

c  =s  ch.  /*  =»  the  voiceless  tenuis. 

r  ^t  sh,  ras  in  English  (I  question  the  exis- 

^  as  in  English.  tence  of  r  in  modem   eastern 

e  =  ay,  Algonquian). 

g  like  English  hard  g,  s  always  hard  as  in  safe. 

^  as  in  English.  /  as  in  English. 

^*  =s  a  soft  aspirated  guttural.        /*  =  the  voiceless  tenuis. 

/  as  ee.  th  as  in  thin, 

j\  k,  as  in  English.  »  as  in  the  proper  English  pronun- 

h'  s  the  voiceless  tenuis.  ciation  of  rude, 

m,  n,  as  in  English.  w,  y  (consonantal)  as  in  English. 

There  are  undoubtedly  faults  of  transcription  in  the  text,  chiefly 
owing  to  the  fact,  as  Mr  Estes  has  pointed  out  to  me,  that  his 
Mohican  narrator  was  old  and  toothless  and  consequently  most 
difficult  to  follow.  On  the  whole,  however,  as  will  appear  from  the 
following  etymological  analysis,  the  words  are  given  so  correctly 
that  I  have  been  able  to  identify  nearly  all  of  them  by  a  comparison 
with  kindred  dialects,  chiefly  with  those  of  the  Lenape,  the  Canadian 
Abenaki,  the  extinct  Massachusetts  Natick,  and  occasionally  by 
means  of  the  idioms  of  the  eastern  Passamaquoddy  and  Micmac. 
The  Mohican  dialect  herein  given  bears  close  resemblance  to  the 
Munsee  dialect  as  still  used  at  Hagersville,  Ontario.^  The  differences 
between  this  Mohican  dialect  and  the  Munsee  language  are  about 
the  same  in  degree  as  those  which  exist  between  Dutch  and  High 
German.  The  Mohican  was  evidently  a  branch  of  the  Munsee  and 
stands  related  in  a  lesser  degree  to  the  kindred  Lenape  idiom  of 
Brinton's  Lenape  Dictionary^  which  I  have  been  able  to  use,  how- 
ever, in  most  cases  in  my  identifications. 

There  is  something  peculiarly  melancholy  in  the  thought  that 
we  probably  have  in  this  text  the  last  specimen  of  the  tongue 
which  was  heard  for  centuries  in  the  neighborhood  of  New  York 

1  Cf.  Prince,  Notes  on  the  Modem  Minsi- Dialect,  Amer.  Joura.  Fhilol.,  xxi,  pp. 
295-302  ;  A  Modem  Delaware  Tale,  Proc.  Am.  Philos.  Soc.,  XLI,  pp.  20-34. 


76  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

City  and  along  the  shores  of  the  great  Maik'anetuk,  or  '  Mohican 
river/  as  the  original  inhabitants  called  the  Hudson. 

Mohican  Text 

/.  Gut'e  withk'enowak  mdwe P'ip'tnat'owak ponak  k'otawe  ni  thipo 
Maik'anet'uk,  Ait'an  gatndu-  P'ip*tnat'it',  Gut-e  wafikmau  mdwe 
P'tp'Mdt'owak.  Psukp^hdnatn  gwtece  dan  hotawdHsman  not'ek'dk.  Kne 
ph'dnam ph'aktdmo.  Ami-kseih't'art'a  nin  ph-ak'ek'wat-an  ne  t-ane 
t'awdk'wuk  ne  waace  kteP'anank  ne  t-awdk-wukntu  wicok  niswa  namedo 
awdne  nebiik.  K'oseeh't'at-a  wosak'k'amonman,  OnamidH  sok'wd- 
awak  wawM'han  wici  maat'ik. 

II,  Kne  andmatho  ne  wikwafimahk,  AupadH  nimdna  wawM'han 
ame  ten  naHampp-nan  nawdH  ne  nip-aakwendayerk,  Kne  paeondit'ita 
P'ip'mauwinnowdk.  Kne  awot'aflndnwan  nimand  k'adk'waemaa  naam- 
iet'ak'  ne  waHk-amak,  Kne  saHdHwa  waspowdk  nemanadk  wici  ne 
p-aakwenaaySrk,  Kne  awot'aflnawan  ph-dnman  pseek'dnc  k'iiwa  k'ce 
P'ot'a,  P' tit 'in  maawe  ningdano  ne  p'aak'wenaayirk,  Kne  saHahwd 
wdspo  andmatho  ne  paakwenaaySrk.  Kne  arame  outhdme  p'k'atindk 
erst'd  k'ise  waamahk  P'dawe.  Kne  ne  maftsdHt-aman  ne  p-ihwahdk, 
Kne  aan  nitaao  ne-ien-p'iciikwthin P'ikwah'k'woerk, 

III,  Mdace P'ic'ikwthiit'a  op'ot'awdH  cinwaaciik  wawtet-an  ani- 
n&omp'nan  nan  naawaH.  Kne  op 'ot'awdn pask'owdn  nemdnan  ou-wSenan 
aniwithit'  ouwanthdk  -amwok  wadeao  mah  'okwaawinjannak,  Kne  mdacino 
st'aHmiik'ao  mdawe  ciit'tni,  Kne  mdacino  nethwak  nemdnak  ne  nihafi- 
P'ak  bwak  ph  'dnam  maa  knamedflna,  Na  ph *dnam  adt  st-adtwahaHmaflk 
dyiwi,  Kne  owakp'eet'at' no  aut-ap'inno P'ek'wah'k'wok,  Kne pask-o 
mat' ok  awdau  oundt't'ookwun  nan  ph'dnman,  Kne  ou  erst'd  no  out'- 
ap'P'ewan,  Kne  anamithwak.  Kne  ciit'mih'ein  ph'dnam  dan  awaH- 
thith,     Erstd  gut*  c'iinwawe  kanet'Pek'ak. 

IV,  Kne kaawanp' at 'afipank'cikwtho ph'dnam.  Andmatho  wawief 
an  ararnS  kakh'ikammih'ak  ounae.  No  wici  k'eseam  saHpeetawaH  sek'- 
wiot'ke  nuuci  thafip'ein  nihafipao  at-anakaHtak  at'aHnakoma,  Kne  than- 
dftwa  out'dnwanaanayak,  AnS  maaceaflafimdHknowicawotp'ane.  Kne 
wdiawau  anamafinak'ammau  k'akse  naci  withhenbwa  dine-amowat-et' 
waac'tdm  mok'wamp'dk pafit'it'  thafiwamooce  wacii P'afU'it'  nokmamici 
anaik'ik'  sikwiafit- it  no  ph'dnman,  Kni-maacino  ph'dnmak  dap'okkaflk 
wac'ein  met'thondiit-it'  paeondiit-iit-a, 

V,  Kne  maawe  nok  mok'wamp'dk  kp'aothwdk  wek'wameek'bk  danwa 
ph'dnam  aflh'odho  wdceam  erstd  nameafimok,  Erstd  meek-ao  paeondo- 
wdk ;  kanwapaak  wdiyawau  out'aHna  mUt'thondiikw  thafhva  mat'thon- 


PRINCX]  HUDSON  RIVER  INDIAN  LANGUAGE  77 

dowak.  Kne  wdiyawau  anet^aHafUa  kithpundowdk,  Kne  ni-ut'an  wa 
nemdnaa  ap^it.  Kne  ouk'tutcimonan ;  k'ak'wai  kHnin  ne  kmah'okwao' 
wenjanf  Kne  aut'afinan  haakwail  Amoskw  nathak'amok'tinn.  Kne 
ph'anman  ktafikcako  autanan :  kaHkna  waahiflyaH  ktaftnamokwin,  Kne 
kawamo  P'osko,  Kne  maawe  kt'aHkcawak  amusok'wanawaH,  Kne 
p^askawan  anao  imthk'enawan  mawe  amaama  wdyawau  ama  kmrndna- 
mak  mawe  kwana.  And  niya  nimdnamak  erstadm  geese-k'wanatuik. 
Awayethdk  art  okat't'am  maflwaH  nemdnama. 

Translation 

I.  Once  on  a  time  some  young  men  went  hunting  in  the  winter  up 
river  on  the  Mohican  river  (Hudson  river).  That  was  where  they  always 
hunted.  One  day  all  were  hunting.  One  woman  alone  and  her  child 
were  in  the  camp.  Then  the  woman  was  hulling  com.  When  she  was 
washing  the  hulled  com  at  the  spring,  where  the  spring  comes  out  of  the 
mountain,  she  saw  some  persons  in  the  water.  She  was  washing  her  com 
when  she  saw  them  painted  and  she  knew  that  was  for  evil  (/.  e.,  a  bad 
sign). 

II.  Then  she  went  to  where  they  (her  party)  were  camping.  She 
awaited  the  men  (for)  she  knew  that  they  were  to  be  attacked  that  very 
night.  Then  when  the  men  came,  then  she  told  the  men  what  she  had 
seen  that  day.  Then  they  prepared  —  the  men  did — for  that  night. 
Then  they  said  to  the  woman  :  ''  Do  your  best ;  do  you  go  away  and  try 
to  save  (yourself).  Perhaps  we  shall  all  be  killed  this  night."  Then, 
because  it  was  so  very  dark,  she  could  not  go  a  great  way.  Then  this 
(woman)  remembered  a  certain  hollow  log.  So  she  thought,  "I  will 
crawl  into  that  hollow  log.  * ' 

III.  After  she  was  within,  she  heard  them  fighting  (and)  she  knew 
that  they  were  attacked.  Then  she  heard  one  man  call  him  (her  hus- 
band) by  name  (and  say),  "  The  dog  has  bitten  my  thiunb."  Then  not 
long  afterward  all  became  quiet.  After  that  two  men  came  (and)  they 
said,  "  We  certainly  saw  a  woman.  That  woman  cannot  be  a  great  way 
off.'*  Then  they  said,  "Perhaps  she  is  inside  this  hollow  log."  One 
of  them  used  a  stick,  feeling  with  it  inside  for  the  woman.  Then  he 
said,  "She  is  not  inside."  So  they  went  away.  Then  the  woman  and 
her  child  lay  quite  still.  Not  once  did  she  make  a  sound  the  whole  night 
through. 

IV.  Then,  as  soon  as  the  dawn  came,  the  woman  crawled  out.  She 
went  where  she  knew  a  cross-cut.  For  this  reason  she  was  able  to  head 
off  the  murderers  (and)  she  got  to  her  home  and  people  before  they 


78  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

arrived.  Then  she  told  what  had  happened  to  her  people ;  that  all  were 
killed  who  had  gone  with  her.  Then  the  chief  sent  all  the  young  men 
around  to  notify  the  warriors  that  they  should  come  at  once.  Those  bad 
people  had  murdered  the  husband  of  that  woman.  Right  after  this,  the 
women  cooked  (food)  so  that  they  (the  murderers)  might  eat  when  they 
arrived. 

V.  Then  all  those  warriors  shut  themselves  up  in  the  wigwams  and  the 
woman  hid  herself,  so  that  they  could  not  see  her.  Not  long  afterward 
they  came  ;  when  they  arrived,  the  chief  said,  "  Eat  ye,**  and  they  ate. 
Then  the  chief  thought  that  they  had  eaten  enough.  So  he  went  to 
where  the  man  (murderer)  was  sitting.  Then  he  asked  him,  "What 
have  you  (what  is  the  matter)  with  your  thumb?**  And  he  said, 
"  What?  Why  a  beaver  bit  me.**  But  the  woman  sprang  out  and  said, 
*  *  You  liar,  my  husband  bit  you  !  *  *  Then  someone  uttered  the  war-whoop. 
Then  they  (the  hidden  warriors)  all  jumped  out  and  scalped  them.  Then 
(the  chief)  said  to  one  of  the  young  men,  "Go  tell  the  chief  (of  the 
murderer's  clan)  and  say,  'Come  bury  your  men.*  **  He  (the  chief) 
said  to  him,  "  My  men  I  cannot  bury.  The  wild  animals  have  eaten  my 
men  up.** 

Analysis  ' 

I.  GuT'E  '  once  *  =  Pass,  neqt '  one  *  (see  below,  §  I. ).  Withken- 
OWAK  *  young  men  *  =5  withke  *  young  *  ( Abn.  uski ;  Oj.  oshkt)  +  linno 
'man  *;  Munsee  withkeelno  (see  Prince,  P.  A.  Ph.  S.  xli,  27).  MAwe 
' all*  a  metathesis  for  Del.  wemi.  P-ip'MAT-owak  *  they  hunt  *;  cf.  Abn. 
piVtna  ' shoot  * ;  N.  pummau  '  shoot. '  Ponak  seems  to  mean  '  in  winter,* 
although  my  translator  gives  it  '  in  the  north  *;  cf,  Abn.  pebdn  *  winter.* 
K-OT'AWE  'up  there*  =  N.  kuhkuhqueau  'he  ascends.*  Ni  (dem.  pr.) 
'that*  B=  Abn.  ni  'that.*  Th^po  =s  Abn.  sipOy  a  common  Algonquian 
word.  Maik'ANET-uk  '  the  Mohican  river  *  or  'the  Hudson*;  cf.  ND. 
p.  315,  Mohicanniiuck  '  Hudson.*  Note  that  -t-uky  =  Abn.  -iukw  '  river.' 
Ait -AN  '  where  *  same  element  as  Abn.  tdni ;  N.  uttiyeu  '  where.'  GamAu 
'always*  =s  Del.^«^^»i««/i*  'always.*  P-ip-mat-it-  'they  hunt,*  relative 
form,  3d  pers.,  pi.     Gut-e  waSkmau  'one  day*;    Abn.  nguddog' niwi 

1  The  following  abbreviations  have  been  used :  Abn  =  Abenaki ;  the  material 
for  this  language  is  drawn  from  Prince,  Abenaki- English  Dictionary  (not  yet  pub. 
lished);  Del.  =  Delaware  ;  D.  Lex.  =  Brinton,  A  Len&pe- English  Dictionary,  Fhila., 
1889 ;  Narr.  =  Narragansett ;  Roger  Williams,  Key  into  the  Language  of  America ; 
N.=Natick;  ND.  =  J.  Trumbull,  Natick  Dictionary,  Washington,  1903  ;  P.  A.  Ph.  S. 
=  Proceedings  of  the  American  Philosophical  Society;  Pass  =  Passamaquoddy  (material 
from  Prince's  collections);  Peq.  =  Pequot,  discussed  at  length  by  Prince  and  Speck,  Am^ 
Anthrop.^  v,  pp.  193-212;  vi,  18-45,  and  Speck,  Am.  Anthrop,,  vii,  pp.  469-476. 


PRINCE]  HUDSON  RIVER  INDIAN  LANGUAGE  79 

'one  day.*  Psuk  'one*=Abn.  pazego,  patekw  'one.*  Ph'Anam 
'  woman/  found  only  in  Abn.  fhanetn.  That  this  is  a  real  Mohican  word 
is  seen  in  De  Forest,  Indians  of  Connecticut^  ^pp*9  P*  49i»  where  the  form 
fghainoom  is  given.  It  is  probably  connected  by  metathesis  with  the 
stem  meaning  'split/  i.  e.,  vulvcy  seen  in  Del.  ochqeuy  Pass,  and  Micmac 
ipity  Oj.  ikwcy  and  also  with  Narr.  and  Pequot  squaw  «>  ^  -4-  qua.  I 
think  p-h*  in  ph'dnam  is  a  metathesis  of  k{p')'W{h')  in  the  words  just 
cited.  GwfeECE  'alone/  probably  cognitive  with  N.  wukse  'alone* 
(ND.  p.  270).  Is  the  gw-  the  same  element  as  in  gut-c  '  one  *  ?  Dan 
'and*  t=  Abn.  ta.  HoxAw'AfJsMAN  'her  child.*  I  think  Estes  wrote 
hot'  for  wot-y  i.  e.,  the  w-  of  the  3d  pers.  prefix  +  the  intercalated  /  be- 
fore a  vowel ;  cf.  Abn.  wd-awdssisma.  The  »»-element  is  the  possessive 
suffix  and  the  final  -n  is  probably  the  obviative  ending  as  Pass.  •/,  -a  in  Abn. 
Not-ek-Ar  seems  to  mean  '  alone  *;  cf.  Abn.  nodega^  and  not  '  in  camp  * 
(so  Estes).  It  is  perhaps  a  redundancy  for  gwSece,  Kne  'then *  must 
contain  the  element  k-  =  Abn.  ga  +  «/,  i.  e.,  Abn.  ni-ga  *  then  *  (ga-ni). 
Ph'AKtAmo  'she  hulls  com*  is  probably  cogn.  with  N.  wuh-hogkom- 
minecuh  '  corn-husks.  *  ARNfe  =s  the  relative  '  when.  *  There  is  probably 
no  r  in  this  dialect  (?)*  I  think  this  is  Abn.  aii  =  am.  See  s.  v. 
ARARNEy  §  II.  Perhaps  this  is  the  same  element  as  Abn.  t-dni  '  when  *  ? 
KsEiH'T'ARTA  ' she  washing*  »  D.  geschiechton  'to  wash*  and  Abn. 
katebcLaWmuk  'one  washes.*  The  -r-  is  superfluous  here  =»  -ata^  i.  e., 
the  ending  of  3d  pers.  overhanging  -iz,  seen  in  Abn.  piVrnddid-a  '  when 
they  shoot.*  Nin  is  the  inanimate  pi.  of  ni  '  that/  and  agrees  with  the 
following  word.  Ph-ak-ek-wat-an  'husks  of  com/  with  inanimate  pi. 
-an;  cf.  Pass.  -«/.  Ne  t-ane  is  simply  Abn.  ni  dali  'there*  (lit.  'at 
that*);  1^=-  n  zs\u  the  inan.  pi.  T'awakwuk  contains  the  element 
seen  in  N.  tohkekom  'running  water.*  This  is  a  cogn.  of  the  stem  of 
Abn.  tego  'wave*  and  -tukw  'river.*  See  above  Maikanet-uk,  §  I. 
Waac'E-ktep'ANank  '  it  emerges.*  Waace  is  simply  Abn.  wajiy  uji  ' out 
of*  and  ktep-anank  =  D.  ktschin  *  go  out  *;  cf.  Prince  P.  A.  Ph.  S.,  xli, 
p.  33.     Niu,  lit.  ni  *  that  *   and  u  '  this  *  is  a  strong  dem.  pronoun. 

1  In  Abenaki  the  consonants  are  pronounced  as  in  English  and  the  vowels  as  in 
Italian,  except  d^  which  is  the  French  nasal  -on.  In  Delaware,  Brinton  has  followed  the 
German  system  of  phonetics.  In  Narragansett  and  Natick,  Williams  and  Trumbull  have 
used  the  English  system  of  spelling.  In  Passamaquoddy  and  Pequot  the  consonants  and 
▼owels  are  to  be  pronounced  as  in  Abenaki. 

The  existence  of  r  in  modem  eastern  Algonquian  is  very  doubtful.  Mr  Speck  found 
a  pure  initial  r  in  his  broken  Connecticut  dialect  of  the  Stockbridge  Mohican  in  the  word 
rtUig  *  crushed  com.'  This,  however,  is  an  evident  archaism  and  not  to  be  taken  as  a 
correct  specimen  of  spoken  Mohican  (see  Proc.  Am.  Philos.  Soc.,  XLii,  p.  350.). 


{ 


8o  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

Wicx>K,  locative  of  wico  *  mountain '  a  Abn.  wq/o,  a  common  Algon- 
quian  word.  Niswa  *  then  *  =  Abn.  m'-sawa,  a  usual  resumptive  '  then 
indeed.*  Nameao  *  she  sees '  =  Abn.  w^namid,  Pass.  w*nsmia  '  he  (she) 
sees.'  AwAne  should  be  awanen  with  obviative  ending  -«.  Cf.  D. 
auwen^  Abn.  awani  'someone.'  NebiIr  *in  the  water*  =  Abn.  n^btk, 
K-ASEEH-T-AT'A  '  while  Washing ' ;  *  while  *  is  expressed  by  overhanging  -a. 
See  above  kseth't-art-a,  Wosak-k-amonman  'her  com'  =  Abn.  ska- 
mdnal ;  OA.  skam&n  '  com '  and  N.  mesunkquammineash  '  husks. '  The 
ending  -an  is  inan.  pi.  OnamiAR  'she  sees  it'  or  'them,'  with  definite 
ending  -aH,  cf.  Abn.  vfndmid  'he  sees  him.'  .  Sok-wAawak  'them 
painted';  cf.  Narr.  wumckwhbmtnen  'he  paints  it.'  Waw^et-han  'she 
knows  it';  cf.  Abn.  uwawawindwd  'they  know  him.'  Wicfe  'for' 
=  Abn.  wajiy  Pass,  weji  'for.'  MAAT-feK  =  Abn.  tnajiy  N.  matche^  D. 
machtit '  bad,  ill,  evil. ' 

II.  AnAmatho  'she  went'  =  D.  allumsin  'he  goes  away,'  with  th 
for  s.  WiKWAfiMASK  '  the  place  of  abode,'  from  root  wik,  Cf.  Abn.  wig- 
wdm  '  dwelling,'  and  see  below,  §  V.  AupaAS  '  she  awaits '  =  D.  pehowen 
'  wait. '  NiM Ana  '  men  ' ;  the  old  Mohican  word  for  '  man '  was  nema- 
naoo ;  cf.  De  Forest,  op,  cit.^  p.  491.  ArnI:-ien  seems  to  be  ante  +  the 
suffix -/>«.  Na!}amp*p*nan  I  cannot  explain.  NAwAS=sAbn.  ;ia«/a 'then.* 
NiP-AAKWENAAVfeRK  '  that  Same  night  *  =  Abn.  nibdiwi;  D.  nipahwi  'in 
the  night.*  Paeonditit-a  '  when  they  came  *  ('when  they '  =  iHt-a)  ; 
cf.  D.  paan^  Abn.  paid  ' come.'  Awot-afindnwan  '  she  told  them '  prob- 
ably contains  stem  of  aan  (see  below)  with  intercalated  dental.  K'ad- 
k'wae  '  what  *  =s  Abn.  kagui,  Pass,  kekw^  Del.  kolku.  Note  the  metathe- 
sis in  N.  teagua  'what.'  Maa  NAMfeET'AT-  'what  she  had  seen.'  This 
maa  may  be  the  sign  of  the  past,  seen  in  N.  mahche  '  already '  (cf.  also 
Prince,  Pequot  glossary,  Am.  Anthrop.,  vi,  36).  NAMfeEX-AT-  is  the  in- 
animate form  in  -/•/  cf.  Abn.  namito  '  he  sees  it '  (inan.).  WaSk-amak* 
'  on  that  day '  must  show  the  same  element  seen  in  Abn.  tuisdg-ivnakkiwik 
'three  days.'  SASAfJwA  'they'  has  the  same  element  as  in  Abn.  sa- 
ndba  '  man.'  WaspowAk  '  they  prepare '  I  cannot  identify.  Pseek-Anc 
' everything '  =  Del.  tsigantschi  'all.'  K-iiwA=ayou  Abn.  kiya  (?). 
K'CE  p-OT*A  I  cannot  identify.  P-iit-in  '  perhaps  *  =  Del.  ////  D.  Lex. 
117,  15.  See  below  on  peet-a-t^  §  III.  Has  this  any  connection  with 
the  Yitnoh  peui-itre ?  NingAano  'we  shall  be  killed';  Del.  nihillan^ 
Abn.  nihlo,  I  am  not  certain  of  this.  Ararne  '  because '  perhaps  s 
a-a-neiy).  See  above  on  arn£.  OuthAme  'so  very*  =  Abn.  uzdmi 
'too  much';  Del.  wsamiechen  '  to  have  too  much.'  P-k-aSnAk  'it  is 
dark'  =  Del.  pakenum,  D.  Lex.  105,  10.     ErstA  'not,'  see  below  on 


PRINCE]  HUDSON  RIVER  INDIAN  LANGUAGE  8 1 

staHy  staty  §  III.  Same  element  as  Abn.  anday  Del.  attdy  N.  maty  Pequot 
mud  'not.'  K-ise  'she  was  able';  cf.  Abn.  kizi  'can.'  WaanmaSk 
'go';  perhapss  Del.  aan  'go.'  P-Aawe  'far,'  perhaps  for pa//iwi with 
elision  of  /,  so  often  seen  in  Pequot.  MaSsASt-aman  '  she  remembers '  = 
Del.  meschatametiy  D.  Lex.  82,  3.  P-ik-wahak  'hollow  log*==Del. 
puchtschessu  '  it  is  hollow ';  N.  pukqui  '  there  is  a  hole ';  Abn.  piguagen 
'it  is  hollow  within.'  Note  in  the  next  sentence  the  form  P-ikwah-- 
k-woer-k;  -erk^si-ak  in  Abn.  -akuam  'tree.*  Aan  seems  to  mean 
'  she  said,'  probably  cogn.  with  Munsee  owhy  Prince,  op,  «/.,  p.  30.  Cf. 
Oj.  iwa  '  he  says.'  N^taao  '  I  think '  =  Del.  ntite  '  I  think  *;  wditehen 
'he  thinks,'  D.  Lex.  153,  12.  Ne-ien-p-ic-iikwthin  'I  will  enter  in.* 
The  element  ien  here  is  probably  Del.  aan  *  to  go '  -f  pusihu  '  enter  any- 
thing,' especially  a  canoe;  D.  Lex.  120,  20;  cf  next  sentence /-/V'/V- 
kwihiit'a  '  when  she  had  entered. ' 

III.  Maac'E  '  afterward'  =s  N.  «^  mahchcy  ND.  219  b.  Ma  is  same 
particle  seen  in  Oj. pa-ma  ' afterward.'  See  below  maacino.  Op'OT-a- 
wAfJ  '  she  heard  them  '  (^waH).  Cf.  Del.  pendamen  '  hear  * ;  Abn.  poda- 
wazimuk  'one  takes  council.'  Cinwaac-iik  *  them  (ik)  fighting.'  I  can- 
not locate  this  stem.  WAwfeEX-AN ;  note  different  writing  here  for 
wAwfeET -HAN  above,  §11.  Aninx^omp-nan  nannaawan  '  that  they  were 
being  attacked.'  I  cannot  explain  this  form.  See  above  s,v,  naI^amp-- 
p-NAN,  §11.  Pask-owAn,  see  above  s.v.  psuk,  §I.  Ou-w^enan  'he 
names  him,'  from  root  wee  =  Abn.  kdeli-wi-zi  '  you  are  named '  ;  also 
Del.  wliwunsawagan  '  name.'  Aniwithit-  '  his  name  '  a  participial  form 
in  -/'/•  =s  3d  p.  The  -w-  element  here  =  Abn.  //  in  liwizowogan  '  name. ' 
OuwanthAk-amwok  '  he  bites  me.*  I  connect  the  root  thak  with  ND. 
226  b,  sogkepuan  'he  bites.'  Cf.  Oj.  nin-takwange  *  I  bite,'  Abn.  sag- 
amdmuk  *  bite,  *  with  s  for  th  as  usual.  Wadeao  *  the  dog  '  shows  same 
root  as  in  Abn.  wdamis  '  his  dog  *  ;  Pass,  ndemis  '  my  dog '  ;  Old  Peq. 
nahteauy  see  Prince,  Peq.  Glossary,  p.  36  ;  nutteah,  Mah-okwaowinjan- 
NAK  '  the  thumb  '  contains  root  seen  in  ND.  ^^^  kehieguanutch  *  thumb,' 
i.  e.  kehie  'big*  4  uhquae  'finger.*  The  Del.  word  was  kitthukquewul- 
inschawotty  D.  Lex.  55,  i.  The  root  inj  'finger'  appears  in  Oj.  onind- 
jima  'his  finger.*  Maac-ino,  see  above  on  mAace.  StaSmiik-ao  'not 
long.*  This  is  clearly  erstd  (see  above,  §  II.)  +  miik-ao  '  long '  =  Del. 
miqui  'far  off.'  See  below  on  staAi-wahaSmaSk,  §  III.  The  Abn. 
kweni  'long'  is  the  same  stem  as  in  miikao,  C-iit-mi  'silent'  =  N. 
chequnnappu  'he  is  silent,'  ND.  322a.  Cf.  ciit-mihein,  §III.  D.  Lex. 
146,  22  gives  ischitquihillen  *  he  is  silent.'  Cf.  Abn.  chigabi  '  be  silent.' 
Nethwak  '  two,'  pi.  =  Del.  nischay  Abn.  nizwak,     Niha5Jp-ak  *  they 

AM.  AICTH-,  N.  S.,  7—6 


82  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

approach*  contains  the  element  oi paeon  'to  come.'  See  above  on 
paeonditita^  §  II.  O'wak  '  they  say/  pi.  of  element  awh  seen  in  Munsee. 
See  Prince,  P.  A.  Ph.  Soc,  xli,  p.  30,  andcf.  above  on  awota!Jnanwan, 
§  II.  Ph-anam  maa  knameA!^na.  This  maa  is  probably  the  sign  of  the 
past  (see  above,  §11.).  KnameAJ^na  'we  (inclusive)  have  seen  her.* 
AAt  probably= '  they  say '  participle  of  aan ;  see  above  awota!JnAnwan, 
§  II.  St-aatwahaSmank  ayiwi  '  she  is  not  far  off.*  Staat  is  negative, 
see  above  on  st'aSmiik-ao,  §III;  wahaHmaHk  ^  jyt\.  wahelltmaty  D, 
Lex.  150,  15  *  it  is  a  great  distance '  ;  dyiwi  is  the  neg.  of  the  verb  '  to 
be* ;  Abn.  anda  aowi  'he  is  not.'  Peet'AT*  'perhaps*  may  be  con- 
nected with ///,  see  above,  §  II.  s.  v.  piit-in,  but  it  looks  suspiciously  like 
the  French  peutitre  used  as  a  loanword  ?  No  is  the  demonstrative  that 
one ;  cf.  ni  '  that  *  and  nok,  §  IV.,  outapin  '  she  is  lying  *  or  '  sitting,* 
from  root  df/=B  Abn.  ab  in  wdabin  'he  (she)  is  lying*  or  'sitting.* 
P-ek-wah'K-w6k  'in  the  hollow  log,*  loc.  of  p-ekw-ahAk,  see  above,  §  II. 
Mat* 6k  'stick* ;  cogn.  archaic  form  is  tachauy  D.  Lex.  135,  8  '  piece  of 
wood.*  AwAau  means  lit.  'he  uses,*  cogn.  of  D.  Lex.  24,  13  auweken 
'he  uses* ;  cf.  Abn.  awaka  'he  works.*  Ounattookkwun  'he  feels 
inside  with  it  *  probably  cogn.  with  D.  Lex.  92,  5  natianamen  *  he  seeks 
someone.'  Nan  p-hAnman.  Note  the  obviative -« in  both  words.  Out-- 
AP-p-EWAN '  she  is  not  there  *  from  root  ap  (see  above  outapin ^  §  III),  with 
neg.  ending  -wan  \  cf.  in  Ayiwi,  §  III.  Anamithwak  '  they  went 
away  *  see  above  §  II.  on  anAmatho.  Note  difference  of  spelling. 
C'liT-MiH-EiN  'she  was  silent*;  a  participial  form.  See  above  on 
c-iiT-Mi,  §  II,  AwAfiTHiTH,  sceabovc,  §  I.,  on  HOTAWAfJsMAN.  I  cannot 
imderstand  why  the  sibilant  should  be  lisped  in  this  form  and  not  in 
the  first  instance.  Cf.  keseam,  §IV.,  and  kithpundowak,  §  V.  The 
Abn.  word  is  awdssis  '  child.*  Gut-,  see  above  on  Gute,  §  I.  Ciin- 
WAWE  '  he  did  not  make  a  sound.*  Probably  the  same  root  as  in  c-iitmi, 
§111.  Kanet-pekak  'all  night'  For  tp'ek-ak,  cf.  Abn.  illitebakak 
'  at  night.*  Kane  here  is  simply  Abn.  kweni '  long,  during  *  ;  thus,  Abn. 
kwenitebakak  '  all  night.  * 

IV.  Kaawan  '  as  soon  as  *  is  probably  a  metathesis  for  kwenan  =  N. 
quenan  '  as  long  as,*  ND.32Sa.  P-at-aSpan  '  daybreak '  =  DqI.  petapan, 
D.  Lex.  114,4.  K-cikwtho  'she  comes  out;'  Cogn.  with  Del.  kut- 
schin  'come  out  of  a  house,*  D.  Lex.  59,5.  Kakh-ikammihak  ounae 
'  a  cross-road.*  I  cannot  identify  the  first  element ;  evidently  from  some 
root  'to  cross  over,*  but  ounae  is  good  Delaware.  Cf.  D.  Lex.  21,3 
a/^ 'road.'  K-eseam  she  could  =  Abn.  kizi-  'can.*  SaSpeetawaS 
'  she  heads  them  off.  *     The  element  safl-  is  probably  the  same  as  in  sack- 


PRINCE]  HUDSON  RIVER  INDIAN  LANGUAGE  83 

gaguntin  '  to  lead/  D.  Lex.  p.  123  ;  Abn.  sa-osa  *  he  goes  forth.*  Does 
the  element  /^^/=Del.  pet-on  'bring'  D.  Lex.  114,20,  also  seen  in 
petschi  '  until  *  114,21  ?  Sek*wiot*ke  '  murderers.*  I  cannot  explain  this 
word  unless  it  is  connected  with  Del.  saquay  sakqua  'troublous/  D. 
Lex.  123.  Nuua  '  first  *  s=i  D.  Lex.  102,10  nutscht  '  at  first,*  '  in  the  be- 
ginning/ Thanp'EIN  '  she  came  out,  arrived  *  ;  same  root  as  sa-  in  Abn. 
saosa  '  he  goes  forth  *  andpatd  *  come.  *  NiHAShPAO,  cf.  nihaSpak  above 
§  IIL  At'ANAKaI^tak  and  at-aHnakoma^  both  cogn.  with  Del.  Lex. 
31,27  el-angomat  'a  member  of  the  family*  and  langoma  60,18  'rela- 
tion/ ThaSJA5Jwa  seems  to  mean  '  what  had  happened  ?  *  Out-Anwan 
'she  relates* ;  cf.  below  §  V.  Out -an  an  'she  told  them.*  A  ana  yak 
seems  to  mean  '  the  people  *  and  is  the  same  word  as  anaik-ik*,  §  IV. 
Af^Af^MANR  '  they  (are)  killed  * ;  perhaps  cogn.  with  -nalen  in  Del. 
gachtO'fialen  '  he  seeks  {gachto)  to  kill,  *  D.  Lex.  96, 12?  This  is  prob- 
ably the  same  element  seen  in  Del.  mhilia'tiy  Abn.  nihldn  '  kill.*  Wica- 
woTP'ANE  '  those  who  went  with  her  *  sss  Abn.  wijawi  '  come  with  me ;  * 
D.  Lex.  164,5  witschawan  'go  along  with.'  WAiawau  '  chief*  is  a  good 
Delaware  word ;  cf.  D.  Lex.  167,  9  wojawwe,  or  Anthony's  form  wej- 
jaweu  'chief.'  Anama!Jnak-ammau  'he  sends';  perhaps  =  Del.  Lex. 
17,  XX  allogalen  'send  someone,'  cf.  N.  D.  annunau  p.  319a  {dHna^s 
allof),  K'AKSE  NACi  'all  around.*  Kakse  perhaps  =  Abn.  kakaswi 
'rather,  more'  and  naci  maybe  cogn.  with  ND.77b  nashawe  'in  be- 
tween,* '  in  the  midst  *  ?  Aine-amowat-et-  '  that '  (^dine  =  Abn.  ait) ; 
amowatet  'they  should  tell,'  3d  per.  pi.  Waac-iAm  =  Abn.  ivaji  'in 
order  to ' ;  cf  Wacii  below,  §  IV.,  and  wice^  §  I.  Mokwampak  '  war- 
riors,' probably  cogn.  with  D.  Lex.  69,  8  machtageoagan  '  war.'  PaSt-it* 
*that  they  should  come '=  Abn.  paiodit ;  note  the  sing,  for  the  pi. 
ThaSwa-mooce  '  immediately '  contains  the  element  schawi  *  dX  once,' 
Del.  Lex.  127,  12.  Wac-ii,  cf.  above  on  waciam,  §  IV.  Nok  pi.  of 
no  '  those.'  Mamici,  reduplicated  form  =  Abn.  maji,  Del.  Lex.  70,  10— 
n  machtity  Peq.  mudjee  'bad.*  Anaik.ik-  'people,'  cf  above  on  Aan- 
ayak,  §  IV.  SikwiaSJt-it*  'those  who  murdered  her  husband/  same 
element  as  in  tek-wiot-ke  above,  §  IV.  DapokkASk  *  they  cook '  must 
be  distantly  connected  with  ND.  273  appuan^  apwan  'he  bakes.' 
Wac'EIN  '  so  that ' ;  ct.  wacidm,  wacii  above,  §  IV.  MEX-THONDiiT'iT- 
'  that  they  may  eat '  =  D.  Lex.  mizin  ;  Abn.  mitsi '  eat,'  a  common  Algon- 
quian  stem. 

V.  Kp-aothwAk  'they  shut  themselves  up'  =  D.  Lex.  45,  i8  gop- 
hammen  'shut,  close';  Abn.  kbaha ;  D.  Lex.  56,  8  kpahhi  'shut  (the 
door).'     Wek-wameek'OK  *in  the  houses';  Abn.  wigwom-ikok.     Note 


84  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

the  pi.  locative  -ikok.  Dan-wa  'and*  ^=^dan  (§1)  +  the  asseverative 
element  -wa.  AfJH-oAfJo  'she  covers  herself*;  cf.  ND.  238b  onkhutn 
'he  hides';  WaceAm  erstA  namea!Jmok  'so  that  they  shall  not  see 
her*=s  Abn.  waji  anda  namiawak,  ErstA  meekao  'not  long*;  cf. 
above  on  sta!Jmiikao,  §  III.  Paeondowak  '  they  came  *  =  Abn.  pat- 
dwak,  Kanwa  '  when  *  =  Abn.  kanowa  '  but.*  Paak  '  they  came  *  = 
paiaky  aorist  form.  MfeETTHONDiiKW  '  that  you  should  eat  *;  2d  pers.  pi. 
participle  from  same  root  as  Del.  mizin.  Mat-thondowak  '  they  ate  * 
from  same  stem.  Anet-aSaSta  '  he  thought  *  =»  Abn.  nde-laldam  '  I 
think  *;  ND.  333a  anantam  '  he  thinks.*  Kithpundowak  '  that  they  had 
eaten  enough  *;  kith  =  Abn.  kizi  sign  of  the  past  +  root  pun-puin  D. 
Lex.  156.  Note  the  lisped  sibilant  in  kith  in  contrast  with  keseam  above 
=  kiziy  §  IV.  The  stem  pun^  puin  is  cogn.  with  Abn.  pol-didit  '  they 
eat.*  Ni  UTAN  '  that  one  («/)  went,*  from  D.  Lex.  9,  2  aan  '  go.*  Wa 
nemAnaa  those  men  ;  note  the  obviative.  A -pit  '  who  sits  *  =  Abn.  abit. 
OuK-wiciMONAN  'he  asks  him*;  cogn.  ND.  222a  wehquetum  'he  asks 
it*;  Abn.  wikomomuk  'he  seeks  it.'  Kaak-wae  'what?'  See  above, 
§11.  Ktinin  'you  have *  =  Pass,  ktiyin  'you  have.*  Kmah-okwao- 
WENJAN  'your  (/^*)  thumb*;  see  above,  §111,  on  mah'okwaowinjannak, 
Amoskw  '  beaver  *  =  D.  Lex.  58,  16  amochk,  Nathak- amok -win  'he 
bit  me  *;  cf.  above  s,  v.  wanthak-amwok,  §  III.  Note  the  3d  pers.  suf- 
fix 'kwin,  KtaSkcako  '  she  jumps  out  *  =  D.  Lex.  60,  7,  laktschellen 
'jump  over.'  See  below  ktaSkcakwak.  ND.  286,  queJishau  'he 
jumps '  and  Abn.  ujanC gwigidahen  '  he  jumps  over  *  are  cognates.  All 
these  contain  the  root  tsch  «=  kc,  KaSkna  '  thou  liest  *  =  D.  Lex.  10, 
14  achgalunen  'to  lie*;  37,  i,  gakelunenhen  'to  make  a  liar.'  I  find 
in  this  word  the  explanation  of  the  Pequot  taiond-uksku  'lie,'  which  I 
could  not  identify  in  Am.  Anthrop.,  v,  205.  WahiSyaS  '  my  husband '; 
probably  cogn.  with  D.  Lex.  158,  6  wiu*u  'he  copulates.'  KtaSnamo- 
KWiN  'he  bites  you*  (/^').  See  above  wanthak-amwok ^  §111.  Ka- 
WAMO  'he  warwhoops*  =  D.  Lex.  16,  21,  kowano ;  Abn.  kwa^kwadmo, 
Amusok-wanawaS  '  they  scalped  them  *  =  D.  Lex.  74,  6,  manoquen  '  to 
scalp*;  Abn.  w^masokwdmo  'he  scalps  him.*  Mawe  'go  and  tell*  = 
D.  Lex.  75B  mauwi  'go.*  Kwana  ' bury *  =  Abn.  pos-kenomuk  'one 
buries.'  Niva  'him*  seems  to  be  the  obviative  form  of  nekama  'him,' 
'he.*  Ersta-Am  geese-k-wanawik  'not  can  I  bury  them.*  Note  the 
neg.  'W-  in  the  verb-form.  AwayethAk  '  wild  animals  *  =  Abn. 
awasis  ' animal.*  Art  =  aat '  he  says.*  O-kat-t-a-maSwaS  '  they  eat 
them  *  =  Heckewelder  mohoan  'eat*  ND.  250b;  also  Abn.  mohomuk 
'  one  eats.*  The  element  kat-t-a  is  the  same  that  is  seen  in  Abn.  w'gata- 
hamowon  'he  cuts  off  (his  ear)*. 


TEXTILE   FABRICS   OF  THE   NEW    ENGLAND 

INDIANS 

By   CHARLES   C.    WILLOUGHBY 

Comparatively  little  is  known  of  the  indigenous  art  products  of 
the  New  England  Indians,  especially  of  such  perishable  objects  as 
garments  and  textile  fabrics.  In  general  the  arts  of  these  Indians 
resembled  those  of  other  eastern  Algonquians,  although  little  re- 
mains of  the  native  culture  of  any  of  these  tribes  by  which  to  judge 
their  earlier  and  superior  work.  The  bark  and  mat  wigpvams,  bul- 
rush and  flag  matting,  bark  receptacles,  and  a  few  other  objects 
still  made  by  the  remoter  Ojibwa  are  similar  to  those  known  to 
have  been  common  in  New  England.  The  snowshoe  and  bark 
canoe  of  the  Abnaki  of  Maine  are,  however,  practically  the  only 
modem  native  artifacts  of  the  New  England  Indians  which  remain 
unmodified. 

For  several  generations  the  textile  productions  of  the  New  Eng- 
land tribes  have  been  limited  almost  exclusively  to  splint  basketry, 
the  manufacture  and  sale  of  which  form  the  principal  means  of 
subsistence  of  many  families.  It  may  be  assumed  that  modem 
examples  of  this  work  bear  but  slight  resemblance  to  the  earlier 
forms.  The  distribution  of  splint  basketry  at  present  among  the 
Iroquois  and  widely  separated  Algonquian  peoples  seems  to  indi- 
cate a  survival  of  this  type  from  prehistoric  times.  It  is  the  one 
style  of  Indian  basketry  which  would  be  the  most  serviceable  to  the 
early  colonists,  and  its  demand  by  settlers  would  naturally  stimu- 
late its  production  and  tend  to  modify  the  native  forms.  Still  I  find 
no  mention  of  splint  baskets  by  the  earlier  explorers  and  settlers 
of  New  England,  although  eight  other  varieties  are  noted,  which 
seem  to  show  that  it  was  certainly  not  the  prevailing  type  during 
the  first  part  of  the  seventeenth  century.  The  earliest  authentic 
examples  known  to  the  writer  belong  to  the  first  third  of  the  nine- 
teenth century,  and  are  the  work  of  the  Scatacooks  of  Connecticut. 

85 


86  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

These  have  been  described  and  figured  by  the  Rev.  W.  C.  Curtis 
in  the  Southern  Workman  for  1904,  and  may  be  classified  as  follows : 
I.  Handlelcss  baskets  with  square  or  oblong  base  and  rim  more 
or  less  rounded,  the  height  being  usually  much  less  than  the  diam- 
eter. These  were  commonly  used  as  work-baskets  by  our  grand- 
mothers.    This  type  may  be  indigenous. 


Fig.  I.  —  Carrying  basket  of  hickory  spliots.     Maihpee  Indians,  BarnsUble  county, 
Massacbusetti.     (One-sixth  natural  size.) 

2.  Baskets  similar  to  the  preceding  type,  but,  unlike  them,  being 
supplied  with  a  handle.  These  are  much  like  the  ordinary  splint 
hand-basket  of  commerce. 

3.  Baskets  with  a  square  base  and  circular  upper  portion,  the 
diameter  being  about  equal  to  the  height.  They  are  furnished  with 
a  snug -fitting  cover,  and  were  used  by  our  colonial  ancestors  princi- 
pally as  storage  baskets  for  small  objects,  such  as  yarn,  colored 
worsteds,  etc.  Similar  baskets  may  still  occasionally  be  found  in 
the  attics  of  the  older  New  England  famiUes. 


wiLLOUGHBY]      TEXTILES  OF  NEW  ENGLAND  INDIANS  8/ 

It  seems  probable  that  these  types,  with  the  possible  exception 
of  the  first,  were  made  more  expressly  for  the  needs  of  civilized 
housekeepers,  but  it  is  difficult  to  determine  just  how  much  both 
form  and  method  of  construction  are  due  to  the  exigencies  of  two 
centuries  of  trade.  The  more  common  modem  examples  of  New 
England  splint  basketry  of  Indian  make  have  probably  lost  all 
resemblance  to  primitive  forms  and  need  not  be  discussed  here. 
Most  of  the  splints  from  which  they  are  constructed  are  machine- 
made  and  supplied  by  wholesale. 

There  are  two  baskets  in  the  Peabody  Museum  of  Harvard 
University  (one  being  shown  in  figure  i)  which  may  be  regarded  as 
purely  aboriginal.  They  are  the  work  of  the  Mashpee  Indians  of 
Barnstable  county,  Massachusetts.  A  few  of  the  primitive  customs 
of  this  tribe  were  retained  until  a  comparatively  late  period,  sedge- 
covered  wigpvams  being  constructed  as  late  as  1802.  Both  of  these 
pack-baskets  are  made  of  hickory  splints  woven  in  a  simple  checker 
pattern.  There  are  four  series  of  warp  splints,  the  first  series  being 
long  enough  to  cross  and  radiate  from  the  center  of  the  bottom  of 
the  basket  and  to  reach  the  rim  on  each  side.  The  second,  third, 
and  fourth  series  are  less  than  half  the  length  of  the  first  and  are 
added  at  the  bottom  only,  at  intervals  of  about  two  inches,  so  as  to 
fill  the  interstices  between  the  radiating  splints,  one  end  of  each 
splint  of  the  last  three  series  being  cut  wedge-shape  so  as  to  fit 
snugly. 

The  foundation  of  the  rim  consists  of  three  hoops.  Each  alter- 
nate warp  splint  is  cut  off  flush,  while  the  ends  of  the  others  are 
bent  over  the  middle  hoop  and  pushed  under  the  upper  two  or  three 
rows  of  the  woof.  Within  and  without  this  middle  hoop  are  the  two 
other  hoops,  the  whole  being  bound  securely  together  by  a  splint 
wrapping.  Two  splint  rings  are  attached  on  opposite  sides  at  the 
rim,  and  two  others  are  placed  in  corresponding  position  near  the 
bottom  for  the  carrying  strap  which  is  also  woven  of  hickory  splints. 
The  ends  of  the  strap  pass  through  the  loops  and  are  tied  beneath 
the  basket.  De  Bry  figures  a  Virginia  Indian  carrying  upon  his  back, 
by  means  of  a  carrying  strap,  a  basket  of  this  form  filled  with  fish. 

The  process  of  preparing  splints  in  the  earlier  days  was  as  fol- 
lows :  Small  hickory,  ash,  or  elm  trees,  a  few  inches  in  diameter. 


88  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

were  cut  in  the  spring.  The  logs  were  sometimes  soaked  in  water, 
although  this  was  not  always  necessary.  They  were  then  peeled 
and  beaten  with  wooden  mauls  until  the  annual  growth  layers  were 
separated  one  from  another.  These  were  split  into  various  widths 
and  assorted,  strips  of  uniform  sizes  being  bound  together  in  bunches 
or  coils. 

Of  the  many  varieties  of  baskets,  bags,  and  other  textiles  made 
by  the  New  England  Indians  during  the  seventeenth  century  almost 
nothing  remains.  A  critical  study  of  the  records  of  the  early 
writers  and  of  the  modem  basketry  of  various  American  stocks  will 
however  give  us  an  approximate  idea  of  the  types  of  that  period. 

Brereton  ^  in  1 602  saw,  at  Buzzards  Bay,  baskets  made  of  twigs 
not  unlike  the  English  osier.  When  the  Pilgrims  *  landed  at  Cape 
Cod  they  opened  an  Indian  cache  and  found  therein  a  storage  bas- 
ket holding  three  or  four  bushels  of  shelled  com.  It  was  round, 
with  a  narrow  opening  at  the  top,  and  was  ''  handsomely  and  cun- 
ningly made."  In  form  it  apparently  resembled  the  storage  basket 
of  several  modern  tribes,  notably  the  Pima.  In  one  of  the  mat-cov- 
ered lodges  they  found  "baskets  of  sundry  sorts,  bigger  and  some 
lesser,  finer  and  some  coarser ;  some  were  cunningly  wrought  with 
black  and  white  in  pretty  works."  When  Captain  Underbill* 
retumed  from  his  memorable  expedition  against  the  Pequot  Indians, 
he  brought  several  "delightful"  baskets.  Gookin*  refers  to 
basket  sieves  for  sifting  commeal.  According  to  this  writer,  rushes, 
bents  (coarse  grass),  maize  husks,  silk  grass,  and  wild  hemp  were 
used  for  baskets  and  bags,  some  of  which  were  very  neatly  made 
and  omamented  with  '.designs  of  birds,  beasts,  fishes,  and  flowers. 
To  this  list  Josselyn  *  adds  sparke  and  the  bast  of  the  lime  tree,  in 
their  natural  colors  or  dyed  black,  blue,  red,  and  yellow.  Wood  * 
writes  :  "In  the  summer  the  Indians  gather  hemp  and  rushes  and 
material  for  dyes  with  which  they  make  curious  baskets  with  inter- 
mixed colors  and  portraitures  of  antique  Imagerie."     Some  of  the 

>  Massachusetts  Historical  Collections,  Third  series,  viii,  p.  88. 

•  Journal  of  the  Pilgrims  at  Plymouth,  Cheevcr's  reprint,  pp.  34,  39. 

•  Capt,  VnderhilPs  Narrative,  Orr*s  reprint  in  History  of  Pequot  War,  p.  55. 
^  Massachusetts  Historical  Collections,  First  series,  I,  pp.  150,  151. 

•  Two  Voyages  to  Ne7v  England,  Veazic  reprint. 

•i\>a»  England* s  Prospect,  Prince  Society's  reprint,  pp.  109,  no. 


WILLOUGHBY]      TEXTILES  OF  NEW  ENGLAND  INDIANS  89 

bags  or  sacks  woven  of  Indian  hemp  would  hold  five  or  six  bush- 
els.* According  to  Champlain,*  large  bags  woven  of  grass  were 
used  for  storing  corn.  It  is  probable  that  some  of  the  maize-husk 
baskets  noted  by  Gookin  were  woven  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
baskets  of  this  material  still  occasionally  made  by  the  Iroquois  In- 
dians for  their  own  use.  A  low,  broad,  bottle-shaped  receptacle  is 
a  frequent  form,  the  neck  being  supplied  with  a  corn-cob  stopper. 
Another  variety  is  pan -shaped  with  nearly  perpendicular  sides.  Both 
styles  are  in  twined  weaving,  for  which  the  pliable  husks  are  espe- 
cially adapted. 

Rushes,  bents,  silk  grass,  wild  hemp,  and  linden  bast  are  all 
adapted  to  twined  weaving.  Rushes  were  extensively  used  in 
making  mats  for  lining  and  furnishing  wigwams.  According  to 
Williams  these  mats  were  embroidered.  Josselyn  says  they  were 
painted.  Mourt,  in  his  Relation^  informs  us  that  they  were  of  finer 
quality  than  those  used  for  lodge-coverings. 

The  mats  for  both  the  exterior  and  the  interior  of  the  lodge  were 
in  all  essential  qualities  like  those  now  made  by  the  Ojibwa,  Menom- 
inee, and  Winnebago.  Morton*  and  Vincent*  say  the  exterior  mats 
of  the  New  England  lodge  were  made  of  reeds,  large  flags,  or  sedge, 
firmly  sewed  together  with  cords  of  Indian  hemp,  the  needle  used 
for  sewing  being  made  from  the  splinter  bone  (fibula)  of  a  crane's 
leg.  Modem  mats  of  the  western  tribes  above  mentioned  are 
usually  made  of  flags  strung  together  upon  a  series  of  bast  cords 
in  such  a  manner  that  each  alternate  leaf  lies  upon  opposite  sides 
and  covers  the  junction  of  two  other  leaves.  These  mats  are 
usually  four  or  five  feet  in  width  and  about  ten  feet  in  length.  The 
ends  are  furnished  with  a  strip  of  wood  to  which  tying  cords  are 
attached. 

The  lining  mats  are  woven  of  rushes  in  their  natural  color  or 
dyed.  Rushes  are  used  for  the  woof  only,  the  warp  being  composed 
of  twisted  cords  of  hemp  or  bast.  The  groundwork  is  usually  the 
color  of  the  undyed  material,  and  artistic  patterns  are  produced  by 


1  Williams,  Key  into  the  Language  of  America^  R.  I.  Hist.  Coll.,  I,  p.  50. 

'  Voyagesy  li,  Prince  Society's  reprint,  p.  121. 

•  New  English  Canaan^  Prince  Society's  reprint,  p.  135. 

^  Vincent*  s  Narrative,  Orr's  reprint  in  History  of  Pequot  War,  p.  105 


90  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  190$ 

weaving  in  rushes  dyed  in  various  colors.  Both  the  simple  in-and- 
out  weaving  and  the  more  elaborate  diagonal  styles  are  followed  in 
their  construction. 

Excellent  examples  of  hexagonal  weaving  survive  in  the  raw- 
hide "netting"  of  snowshoes  made  by  the  Penobscot  and  other 
Maine  Indians.  It  is  doubtful,  however,  if  this  weave  was  used  in 
the  basketry  of  this  region. 

It  is  impossible  to  determine  to  what  extent  the  finer  textiles 
were  used,  but  we  know  that  the  New  England  Indians  made  a 
serviceable  closely-woven  cloth  of  Indian  hemp  (Apocynum  canna- 
binum)  and  probably  also  of  the  soft  bast  of  the  linden.  Bags  hold- 
ing five  or  six  bushels  were  woven  of  the  former  material,  the 
prepared  fibers  of  which  resembled  silk  in  softness. 

Robes  woven  of  grass  and  hemp,  *'  scarcely  covering  the  body 
and  coming  down  only  to  their  thighs,"  were  seen  by  Cham- 
plain  *  in  the  vicinity  of  Wellsfleet  Harbor.  There  is  a  drawing  by 
John  White,  made  in  1585,  of  a  Virginia  Indian  wearing  a  "silk 
grass"  mantle,  which  is  probably  identical  with  the  New  England 
specimens.  It  reaches  only  to  the  thigh  and  has  an  opening  for 
the  neck  and  another  for  the  right  arm.  It  is  apparently  twined 
woven,  silk  grass  probably  being  used  for  the  warp  and  cords  of 
hemp  for  the  woof.  The  twined  woven,  shredded  cedar-bark 
capes  of  the  Nootka  are  similar  in  form  and  style  of  weaving  to 
these  early  Eastern  examples. 

The  most  beautiful  garments  produced  by  the  New  England 
Indians  were  made  of  the  iridescent  feathers  of  the  wild  turkey 
"  woven  with  twine  of  their  own  making  ^  in  such  a  manner  that 
nothing  can  be  seen  but  feathers."  ^  These  cloaks  or  mantles  were 
usually  the  work  of  old  men,*  although  they  were  sometimes  made 
by  women  for  their  children.* 

A  few  coarse  feather  garments  are  at  the  present  time  found 
among  the  California  tribes.  The  Miwok  of  Calaveras  county  in 
particular  construct  a  ceremonial  cape  by  attaching  the  quills  of 

*0p.  cit.,  p.  78. 

3  Morton,  op.  cit.,  p.  142. 

'Capt.  John  Smith,  True  Travels,  i,  p.  129. 

^Williams,  op.  dt.,  p.  107. 

*Josselyn,  op.  cit.,  p.  78. 


wiLLOUGHBY]       TEXTILES  OF  NEW  ENGLAND  INDIANS  9 1 

turkey  feathers  to  a  coarse  netting  of  twine,  the  feathers  overlying 
each  other  like  shingles  upon  a  house.  According  to  Du  Pratz  in 
former  times  feather  garments  were  made  by  the  Louisiana  Indians, 
old  fishing  nets  or  woven  mantles  of  mulberry  bark  being  used  for 
a  foundation. 

Feathers  were  attached  one  over  the  other  to  the  fabric,  and 
covered  both  sides  of  the  garment.*  Lawson  mentions  a  Santee 
(Siouan)  doctor  or  medicine-man  warmly  clad  in  a  mantle  of  turkey 
feathers,  the  feathers  being  selected  and  arranged  to  form  figures.' 
Butel-Dumont  writes  that  the  fiber  of  basswood  bark  was  used  by 
the  southern  Indians  to  make  a  species  of  mantle  which  is  covered 
with  swan*s  feathers.*  The  foundation  of  the  feather  cloaks  of  the 
Pacific  islands  is  either  netted  or  t>\'ined  woven.  Morton's  remark 
that  the  New  England  feather  mantles  were  **  woven  with  twine  of 
their  own  making"  would  seem  to  indicate  that  the  feathers  were 
fastened  to  a  woven  fabric  and  not  to  a  netted  foundation.  There 
would  be  nothing  inconsistent,  however,  in  the  employment  of 
netting  for  the  purpose,  as  fishing  nets  were  in  common  use. 

An  example  of  indigenous  textile  work  of  a  type  probably  not 
uncommon  throughout  New  England  during  the  early  historic  period 
is  illustrated  in  plate  xvi.  So  far  as  known  it  represents  the  highest 
development  of  weaving  and  embroidery  among  these  Indians,  and  as 
a  specimen  of  embroidered  twined  woven  cloth  it  probably  equals  the 
productions  of  any  North  American  tribe.  It  is  a  two-fold  pocket- 
book  of  European  pattern  and  is  shown  open.  The  side  not  illustrated 
is  furnished  with  two  pockets  of  green  flannel.  The  front  is  sup- 
plied with  a  silver  hasp  with  the  date  1778  engraved  upon  it.  The 
hasps  were  the  work  of  a  local  silversmith.  The  form  of  the  pocket- 
book,  the  green  flannel,  and  the  hasps  are  of  course  European. 
The  heavy  cloth  forming  the  body  of  the  book,  the  material  of 
which  it  is  made,  the  style  of  weaving,  and  the  embroidered  design 
are  purely  aboriginal. 

This  wallet  was  made  by  Mollocket,  an  old  Indian  woman  of 
considerable  local  fame,  living  in  Oxford  county,  western  Maine. 


1  Quoted  by  Holmes,  13th  Rept.  Bur.  Ethnolog}',  p.  27. 
■Ibid.,  p.  28. 
« Ibid. 


92  AHIER/CAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [s.  s.,  7,  1905 

She  was  one  of  the  Anasagunticooks,  a  tribe  claiming  dominion 
over  the  Androscoggin  valley.  It  was  given  by  her  to  Eli  Twichel 
of  Bethel,  Oxford  county,  about  the  year  1785,  and  is  now  in  the 
collection  of  the  Maine  Historical  Society,  having  been  presented 
to  that  institution  by  Mrs  Lucia  Kimball  in  1863.  The  wallet  is  in 
twined  weaving,  a  style  common  among  nearly  all  primitive  people. 
The  entire  surface  of  one  side  of  the  closely-woven  cloth  is  covered 
with  an  artistic  design  embroidered  with  the  long  white  hairs  of  the 
moose  in  their  natural  color  or  dyed  red,  green,  blue,  or  yellow. 
The  design  is  excellent  and  the  colors  are  well  grouped. 

The  warp  is  formed  of  twisted  cords  of  native  fiber,  probably 
Indian  hemp.     Each  woof  element  consists  of  two  cords  of  the  same 


Fig.  3.  —  Detail  of  wallel.  a,  a,  warp  cords;  b,  b,  Iwined  woof  cords;  i,  moose  hair 
wrapped  three  times  around  each  twist  of  the  woof  strand  on  the  right  side  of  the  fabric. 

material  twisted  once  around  each  warp-strand  as  illustrated  in  figure 
2.  These  double  woof-strands  are  pressed  close  together,  conceal- 
ing the  warp,  and  are  in  turn  concealed  beneath  the  embroidery 
covering  the  outer  surface.  A  fihiment  of  moose  hair  is  wrapped 
three  times  around  each  strand  of  the  twisted  woof  elements  where 
it  comes  outside.  On  the  inside  of  the  fabric  there  is  no  appearance 
of  ornamentation,  only  the  ends  of  the  hair  showing  where  they 
have  been  carried  through. 

Strictly  speaking,  the  ornamentation  is  in  what  is  termed  false 
embroidery,  the  outer  woof-cords  being  wrapped  with  moose  hair 
during  the  process  of  weaving,  and  not  after  the  cloth  is  Bnished,  as 
in  embroidery  proper. 


^ILOCCHBY]      T£:JCTJZ.£S  of  new  ENGLAND  INDIANS  93 

The  technique  is  identical  with  that  of  the  Tlingit  basketry  and 
the  wallets  of  the  I^ez  Perce  Indians,  except  that  these  tribes  wrap 
the  coarser  embroidery  strand  but  once  around  the  woof-twist  instead 
of  several  times  as  in  the  New  England  work.     Patterns  of  a  char- 
acter similar  to  the  design  upon  the  pocket-book,  showing  the  wide 
distribution  of  the  geometric  and  linear  style  of  decoration  among 
the  Algonquians,  axe  common  upon  the  old  quill-omamented  bark 
boxes  of  the  Micmac  and  the  rush  mats  and  wool  wallets  of  the 
Ojibwa.    These  i^rallets  or  bags  are  about  twenty  inches  in  length 
and  fourteen  in  width,  with  an  opening  at  one  of  the  longer  edges. 
In  former  times  they  were  made  of  native  material,  bast  or  Indian 
hemp,  but  are  now  commonly  woven  of  trade  worsted,  although  the 
primitive  style  of  weaving  and  decoration  is  followed.    Similar  bags, 
with  the  opening  at  one  of  the  longer  or  shorter  edges,  were  widely 
distributed,  occurring  among  the  Salishan  tribes  of  the  west  coast, 
the  neighboring  Shahaptians,  the  Winnebago,  Oto,  and  Omaha  of 
the  Siouan  stock,  the  Ojibwa,  and  doubtless  also  among  the  more 
eastern  Algonquians,  including  the  New  England  Indians.     Josselyn 
may  have  referred  to  wallets  of  this  type  when  he  wrote  of  woven 
bags  of  dyed  porcupine  quills.  *     The  style  of  weaving  and  embroid- 
ery surviving  in  the  pocket-book  illustrated  was  probably  applied 
by  our  eastern  Indians  principally  to  bags  of  the  above  general  form. 
In  conclusion  it  is  evident  that  the  textile  products  of  the  New 
England  Indians  were  of  a  relatively  high  order :  that  baskets,  bags, 
matting,  and  twined  woven  cloth  were  made  of  a  quality  probably 
not  excelled  by  any  of  the  Algonquians,  and  so  far  as  we  can  judge 
by  existing  examples  it  is  doubtful  if  embroidered  cloth  of  any 
North  American    tribe  exceeded  in  workmanship  or  artistic  merit 
that  produced  by  the  natives  of  New  England  and  their  neighbor- 
ing iandred. 

^.  dL,  p.  III. 


TYPES   OF   HAIDA  AND   TLINGIT   MYTHS 

By  JOHN  R.  SWANTON 

In  recording  more  than  two  hundred  and  fifty  stories  of  the 
Haida  and  Tlingit  of  the  north  Pacific  coast  the  writer  has  found 
that  many  of  them  have  very  similar  plots,  and  it  has  seemed  to  him 
that  abstracts  of  the  more  important  of  these  might  be  of  interest  to 
those  engaged  in  comparative  work.  The  story  of  Raven  is  of 
course  similar  to  the  stories  of  other  transformers  and  need  not  be 
included.  The  same  is  true  of  the  story  of  the  brothers  who 
traveled  about  overcoming  monsters.  Here  it  is  evidently  Tlingit, 
the  heroes  in  all  cases  ending  their  career  in  an  attempt  to  cross  the 
Stikine,  and  from  the  Tlingit  it  has  been  transmitted  to  the  Haida 
without  losing  its  Tlingit  names  and  atmosphere.  Several  other 
tales,  repeated  from  end  to  end  of  the  Haida-Tlingit  area,  are  also 
strongly  localized  in  certain  towns  or  camps,  and  hardly  fall  into 
the  present  scheme.  Such  are  the  story  of  the  man  who  was  car- 
ried off  by  the  salmon  people,  the  story  of  the  woman  who  was 
turned  into  an  owl,  the  story  of  the  man  who  obtained  strength  to 
kill  sea-lions,  the  story  of  the  man  who  made  killer-whales  out  of 
wood,  and  the  story  of  the  hunters  who  changed  into  supernatural 
beings  by  putting  themselves  into  the  fire.  A  few  of  the  plots  given 
are  so  general  that  they  can  hardly  be  considered  peculiar  to  the 
northwest  coast,  but  others  probably  do  not  occur  outside  of  that 
area. 

1 .  The  Man  Captured  by  the  Supernatural  Beings.  — A  man  out 
hunting  is  taken  into  the  house  of  some  supernatural  being,  usually 
on  account  of  something  he  has  said  or  done  to  displease  the  latter, 
and  often  it  tries  to  turn  him  into  an  animal,  especially  if  it  be  a 
land  otter  or  a  killer-whale.  On  the  other  hand  the  hero  may  be 
given  a  crest  or  a  name,  and  such  a  story  is  told  by  the  Haida  to 
explain  the  origin  of  secret  society  performances. 

2.  The  Man  who  Married  the  Grizzly  Bear.  —  This  is  related 
to  the  above.     A  man  out  hunting  hears  his  dogs  bark  in  front  of 

94 


SWANTON]  TYPES  OF  HAJDA  AND   TLINGIT  MYTHS  95 

a  grizzly  bear's  den.  When  he  comes  to  it  the  male  bear  throws 
him  inside,  but  the  female  conceals  him,  marries  him,  and  kills  her 
previous  husband.  He  has  several  children  by  her.  By  and  by 
he  returns  to  his  own  people,  but  his  bear  wife  enjoins  him  to  have 
nothing  to  do  with  his  human  wife  or  children.  Every  day  after 
his  return  he  spears  seals  and  carries  them  up  to  his  bear  family, 
who  are  waiting  at  the  head  of  an  inlet.  After  a  while,  however, 
he  disobeys  her  instructions,  and  they  kill  him.  Then  his  children 
wage  war  on  human  beings,  but  are  finally  destroyed. 

3.  The  Woman  who  Married  the  Supernatural  Being.  —  A 
woman  says  something  about  an  animal  or  object  which  angers  the 
supernatural  being  connected  with  it,  or  else  her  father  refuses  for 
a  long  time  to  let  her  marry  anyone.  The  offended  being  appears 
to  the  prl,  and  she  marries  it.  Sometimes  she  goes  off  with  it  and 
lives  among  the  animals  for  a  long  time,  and  sometimes  her  hus- 
band remains  with  her.  In  the  former  case  she  usually  comes  back 
to  her  father's  people  after  a  time,  bringing  food,  and  her  father 
nuy  recover  her  by  killing  the  people  she  has  been  among. 

4.  The  Kidnapped  Wife.  —  A  man's  wife  is  washing  a  skin  in 
the  sea,  when  she  is  carried  off  by  a  killer- whale.  Her  husband 
follows,  descends  to  the  sea  floor,  and  assists  some  being  there  who 
in  turn  directs  him  how  to  get  his  wife  back.  Then  he  goes  behind 
the  town  where  she  is  kept,  causes  the  wedges  of  a  slave  coming 
out  to  chop  wood  to  break,  restores  them,  and  so  obtains  the  slave's 
assistance.  When  the  slave  carries  water  into  the  house,  he  spills 
it  upon  the  fire,  and  while  the  house  is  filled  with  steam  the  man 
runs  in  and  carries  off  his  wife.  He  is  pursued,  but  reaches  home 
safely. 

5.  The  Supernatural  Helper.  —  A  man  who  has  been  unsuc- 
cessful in  gambling,  hunting,  or  getting  property,  goes  off  into  the 
forest  or  out  on  the  sea,  obtains  assistance  from  some  supernatural* 
being,  and  is  afterward  fortunate,  or, 

6.  A  man  or  a  woman  leaves  food  for  some  animal  or  treats  it 
kindly,  and  is  afterward  given  plenty  of  food  in  return,  thereby 
becoming  rich. 

7.  The  Supernatural  Child.  —  A  girl  or  a  girl  and  her  mother 
lose  all  their  relatives  and  are  left  alone  in  the  town.     After  a  while 


96  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

the  girl  gives  birth  to  a  child  who  has  supernatural  power,  grows 
up  rapidly,  destroys  the  enemies  who  have  killed  his  mother's 
people,   and  usually  restores  them  to  life. 

8.  The  Magic  Feather.  —  The  popular  form  of  type  7  is  the 
following :  While  the  people  in  a  certain  town  are  playing  shinny  on 
the  beach,  a  feather  or  some  similar  object  comes  down  from  above, 
and  those  who  seize  it  are  carried  up  out  of  sight.  In  this  way 
everybody  disappears  except  one  or  two  women.  The  younger  of 
these  swallows  something  and  gives  birth  to  a  supernatural  child 
who  revenges  and  protects  them. 

9.  The  Boy  who  was  Abandoned.  —  For  some  action,  trifling 
or  otherwise,  a  boy  is  abandoned  by  all  his  people,  who  leave  him 
alone  in  the  town.  His  youngest  uncle's  wife,  however,  being  fond 
of  him,  conceals  a  little  food  for  him  and  some  fire  enclosed  in 
mussel-shells.  Then  the  youth  receives  assistance  in  some  super- 
natural way  and  stores  a  great  quantity  of  food,  while  those  who 
have  abandoned  him  are  starving.  After  a  while  slaves  are  sent 
over  to  see  what  has  become  of  him.  He  feeds  them,  but  warns 
them  not  to  carry  any  of  the  food  away.  One  of  them,  however, 
conceals  a  piece  for  his  (or  her)  infant,  and  the  night  after  they 
return  gives  it  to  the  child.  While  eating  this,  the  child  cries  out, 
often  from  being  choked  or  from  having  dropped  the  food,  and  the 
chief  or  his  wife  makes  an  investigation,  thereby  discovering  the 
truth.  Then  the  people  of  that  town  return  to  the  place  where  the 
boy  was  left.  All  of  his  uncles'  daughters  dress  themselves  up, 
hoping  that  he  will  choose  one  of  them  for  his  wife,  but  he  selects 
the  daughter  of  his  youngest  uncle,  although  she. has  not  adorned 
herself  and  arrives  last.     He  becomes  a  chief. 

10.  The  Boy  and  His  Grandmother  who  were  Banished. — A 
boy  and  his  grandmother  were  either  abandoned  or  forced  to  live 
outside  the  town.  In  the  former  case  the  story  sometimes  proceeds 
like  type  9.  In  the  latter  case  the  boy  is  assisted  by  some  super- 
natural being  and  obtains  a  great  deal  of  food,  while  the  other 
people  are  starving.  They  are  obliged  to  purchase  food  of  him,  and 
he  becomes  wealthy.  Sometimes  he  becomes  a  great  shaman  and 
obtains  his  property  in  that  way. 

11.  The  Ill-disposed  Mother-in-law.  —  A  man  is  badly  treated 


SWANTON]  TYPES  OF  HA/DA  AND    TLJNGIT  MYTHS  97 

by  his  mother-in-law  because  he  lies  in  bed  continually  instead  of 
working.  After  a  while  he  goes  to  a  lake  behind  the  town  and 
kills  a  water-monster  living  there  by  splitting  a  tree  along  the 
middle,  spreading  the  halves  apart,  and  tolling  the  monster  up  until 
its  head  comes  between  the  two  portions.  He  skins  this  creature 
and  begins  to  catch  all  kinds  of  fish  and  sea  animals.  These  he 
leaves  on  the  beach  where  his  mother-in-law  can  find  them,  and  by 
letting  her  find  them  regularly,  he  induces  her  to  think  that  she 
has  become  a  g^eat  shaman.  After  a  long  time  he  reveals  himself 
before  all  the  people  and  kills  his  mother-in-law  with  shame.  Some- 
times a  monster  is  killed  in  the  way  indicated  merely  that  the  hero 
may  obtain  its  skin  to  wear  when  he  performs  great  deeds,  not  with 
a  view  to  personal  revenge. 

1 2.  The  Goose  Wife.  —  A  man  finds  two  female  geese,  in  human 
form,  bathing  in  a  lake  while  their  skins  hang  on  the  limb  of  a  tree 
near  by.  He  seizes  these  skins  and  so  compels  one  or  both  of  them 
to  marry  him.  When  the  goose  tribe  passes  over,  his  wives  get 
them  to  throw  down  food.  By  and  by  they  leave  him  and  rejoin 
their  people.  He  follows  them  and  remains  with  them  for  a  while, 
afterward  returning  to  his  own  place.  On  his  way  to  find  his  wife 
he  is  sometimes  made  to  encounter  a  man  chopping,  whose  chips 
turn  into  salmon  as  they  fall  into  the  water. 

13.  The  Land  Otter  Sister.  —  The  sister  of  a  certain  man  is 
carried  away  by  the  land  otters  and  married  among  them.  Once, 
when  he  is  encamped  by  himself  making  a  canoe,  his  sister  brings 
him  food.  By  and  by  she  sends  some  of  the  land  otters  to  launch 
his  canoe  for  him,  and  afterward  he  goes  to  the  land-otter  town  to 
finish  it.  While  he  is  there  his  sister  takes  his  smallest  child  on 
her  lap  and  sings  to  it,  making  a  little  tail  grow  out  of  it.  When 
the  man  objects,  she  sings  another  song  and  it  goes  back.  Finally 
he  returns  to  his  town. 

14.  The  Eagle  People.  —  A  man  is  set  adrift  in  a  box  or  on  a 
plank  by  his  uncle  and  lands  among  the  eagles.  He  is  found  by 
two  girls,  marries  them,  and  is  given  a  suit  of  feathers  by  the  eagle 
people  in  which  he  goes  fishing.  After  some  time  he  flies  to  his 
uncle's  town,  seizes  his  uncle  by  the  head,  and  flies  up  from  the 
ground  with  him.     A  person  seizes  his  uncle's  foot  and  is  also 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  7—7 


98  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

• 

carried  up.  He  in  turn  is  seized  by  another,  and  the  process  is 
continued  until  all  the  people  of  that  town  are  hanging  in  a  string. 
He  drowns  them  in  the  ocean. 

15.  Beaver  and  Porcupine.  —  Beaver  carries  porcupine  out  to 
an  island  from  which  he  can  not  get  ashore.  Finally  he  sings  for 
a  north  wind,  the  sea  freezes  over,  and  he  walks  home.  Afterward 
he  takes  beaver  up  to  the  top  of  a  tall  tree  and  beaver  gets  down 
with  difficulty.  The  two  parts  of  this  story  are  sometimes  told  in 
reverse  order. 

16.  The  Rival  Towns.  —  (This  story  is  usually  localized  in  the 
neighborhood  of  Metlakatla  or  on  Nass  river,  but  it  is  also  told  of 
Sitka.)  War  breaks  out  between  two  towns,  and  all  of  the  people 
in  one  of  them  are  destroyed  except  a  woman  and  her  daughter 
who  escape  into  the  forest.  Then  the  mother  calls  out,  "  Who  will 
marry  my  daughter  ?  "  and  the  animals  and  birds  present  themselves 
successively.  She  asks  each  of  these  what  it  can  do,  and  is  dis- 
satisfied with  the  replies  she  receives,  so  she  rejects  all.  Finally 
she  is  answered  by  the  son  of  a  sky  deity  (given  variously  as  sky, 
sun,  or  moon),  whom  she  accepts ;  whereupon  her  son-in-law 
puts  her  into  a  tree,  where  she  becomes  the  creaking  of  boughs  or 
the  echo,  and  carries  his  wife  up  to  his  father's  house  in  the  sky. 
There  they  have  a  number  of  children,  whom  their  grandfather 
teaches  how  to  fight  when  they  are  grown  up.  Usually  there  is 
one  sister  able  to  heal  wounds.  Finally  their  grandfather  puts  them 
inside  of  beautifully  painted  houses,  or  a  fort,  and  lowers  them  down 
on  their  old  town  site.  When  the  people  of  the  town  opposite  hear 
the  noises  there,  they  say  that  they  must  be  produced  by  ghosts ; 
but  seeing  the  houses  next  morning,  they  start  across  to  gamble 
with  the  newcomers.  During  this  game  trouble  breaks  out,  and  the 
children  of  the  sky  are  about  to  be  overwhelmed.  Their  grandfather 
intervenes,  however,  and  enables  them  to  destroy  all  their  foes. 

17.  The  Doomed  Canoemen. — Some  men  out  hunting  in  a  canoe 
are  hailed  by  a  supernatural  being,  who  informs  them  that  on  their 
way  home  they  will  die  successively,  beginning  with  the  man  in  the 
bow,  and  that  when  the  man  in  the  stem  has  reached  home  and 
related  his  story,  he  too  will  die.  The  death  of  a  shaman  or  the 
destruction  of  a  village  is  also  sometimes  foretold  through  him. 


SWANTON]  TYPES  OF  HAIDA  AND    TLJNGIT  MYTHS  99 

18.  The  Protracted  Winter. — ^The  people  in  a  certain  town  so 
offend  some  supernatural  being  that  snow  falls  and  almost  covers 
the  houses.  Finally  a  bird  is  seen  sitting  on  the  edge  of  the  smoke- 
hole  with  a  berry  in  its  mouth.  Suspecting  something  is  wrong, 
the  people,  or  those  who  have  survived,  climb  out  and  go  to  another 
place,  where  they  find  that  it  is  already  midsummer  and  the  berries 
are  ripe.  Similar  stories  relate  how  people  were  punished  by  a 
flood,  by  stormy  weather  which  prevents  them  from  getting  food, 
and  in  one  or  two  stories  otherwise  of  type  17,  by  fire. 

19.  The  Magic  Flight. — ^A  person  is  captured  by  some  super- 
natural beings,  as  in  stories  of  type  3.  He  or  a  friend  of  his  obtains 
some  objects  from  an  old  woman,  and  as  they  run  away  they  throw 
these  behind  them  and  turn  into  obstructions  through  which  their 
pursuers  find  difficulty  in  forcing  a  way.  Usually  this  story  is  told 
of  a  woman  who  offended  the  grizzly  bears.  After  she  has  ex- 
hausted her  magic  gifts,  she  comes  out  on  the  shore  of  a  lake  or 
the  shores  of  the  sea,  where  she  is  taken  into  a  canoe,  marries  an- 
other supernatural  being,  and  after  a  time  returns  to  her  father's 
people,  bringing  food.  Sometimes  the  adventures  of  her  son  are  also 
related,  and  again  a  story  of  type  4  may  be  added. 

20.  The  Grand  Catch. — A  fisherman  who  has  been  long  unsuc- 
cessful at  length  pulls  up  an  enormous  "nest"  full  of  fishes,  or  else 
an  enormous  fish  surrounded  by  smaller  ones.  All  the  canoes  are 
filled,  and  the  poor  fisherman  becomes  wealthy. 

2 1 .  The  Unfaithful  Wife. — Desiring  to  marry  another  person, 
the  wife  of  a  certain  man  pretends  that  she  is  about  to  die  and  is 
placed  in  the  grave-box.  Afterward  her  lover  liberates  her  and 
carries  her  home  or  to  another  part  of  the  country.  By  and  by  her 
former  husband  suspects  the  truth,  goes  to  the  grave-box,  and  finds 
her  body  missing.  Then  he  goes  at  night  to  the  house  where  she 
and  her  new  husband  are  living  and  kills  them  by  running  pointed 
sticks  into  their  hearts.  Next  morning  he  dresses  well  and  goes  out 
to  gamble. 

22.  The  Rejected  Lover. — A  man  is  in  love  with  a  woman  who 
does  not  care  for  him.  She  induces  him  to  pull  all  the  hair  out  of 
his  body  and  then  leaves  him.  Too  much  ashamed  to  return  to 
town,  the  man  wanders  off  to  another  place,  or  climbs  into  the  sky 


ICX)  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

country  on  a  chain  of  arrows.  By  and  by  he  meets  a  supernatural 
being  who  restores  his  hair  and  takes  him  to  another  town  where 
he  marries  the  daughter  of  the  town  chief.  Then  he  returns  to  his 
father's  town  with  his  new  wife  and  puts  the  woman  who  had  rejected 
him  to  shame. 

23.  The  Woman  who  Went  with  the  Animal  (Haida  story). — 
A  woman  goes  out  after  roots  or  shell-fish  every  day  regularly  until 
her  husband  becomes  suspicious.  By  and  by  he  pretends  to  start 
off  hunting,  lands  not  far  off,  and  comes  back  behind  the  village. 
When  he  sees  his  wife  start  out,  he  follows  her,  and  sees  her  come 
out  on  the  sea  at  a  certain  place  where  she  begins  a  song.  Finally 
a  whale,  owl,  or  other  animal  comes  and  lies  with  her.  Next  day 
the  husband  sends  his  wife  off  in  another  direction,  puts  on  her 
clothing,  and  goes  to  the  same  place.  When  the  animal  comes  to 
him,  he  cuts  off  its  penis.  He  takes  this  home,  cooks  it,  and  gives 
it  to  his  wife  to  eat.  After  she  has  done  this,  he  lets  her  know 
what  she  has  eaten  and  makes  her  ashamed. 

24.  The  Blind  Grizzly-bear  Hunter.  —  A  man  who  has  been  a 
great  grizzly-bear  hunter  becomes  old  and  blind.  One  time  his 
wife  aims  his  arrow  for  him,  and  he  shoots  a  grizzly  bear,  but  his 
wife  pretends  that  he  has  missed  and  leaves  him.  She  begins  cut- 
ting up  the  animal  and  cooking  it.  Meanwhile  her  husband  is  met 
by  a  supernatural  being,  usually  a  bird,  which  restores  his  sight. 
When  he  comes  to  her  camp  and  looks  in,  he  wishes  that  the  bear 
head  may  bite  her,  and  it  does  so.  There  are  other  stories  of  the 
restoring  of  a  blind  man's  sight,  but  they  agree  with  the  above  in 
that  particular  only. 

25.  The  Sleep  Bird.  — A  hunter  is  unsuccessful  for  a  long  time. 
One  night  he  hears  something  buzzing  about  his  canoe  and  knocks 
it  down.  It  proves  to  be  the  bird  that  causes  sleep,  and  when  he 
reaches  his  town  he  finds  the  people  lying  dead  just  as  they  slept. 
Sometimes  it  is  added  that  the  hero  himself  could  not  sleep  be- 
cause the  bird  had  died  while  he  was  awake. 

26.  The  Land  Otter's  Captive.  —  A  man  is  carried  away  by  the 
land  otters,  but  his  people  finally  discover  where  he  is,  smoke  the 
land  otters  out,  and  recover  him. 

27.  The  Monster  Devil-fish.  — While  two  or  three  brothers  are 


"••1      •;•    •    • 

;  '  :     :  •••  \ 


SWANTON]  TYPES  OF  HA  IDA  AND    TLINGIT  MYTHS  lOI 

out  hunting,  a  monster  devil-fish  sweeps  the  camp  from  which  they 
had  set  out  into  the  sea,  and  all  the  people  with  it.  Then  the  older 
brother  or  brothers  put  the  youngest  ashore,  toll  the  devil-fish  to 
the  surface,  and  destroy  it,  although  they  themselves  are  carried 
down  when  it  dies.  The  youngest  is  left  to  tell  what  has  taken 
place,  and  the  devil-fish  is  found  floating  dead  with  the  men  inside. 

28.  The  Sea- walkers.  —  A  man  marries  the  daughter  of  some 
supernatural  being  and  takes  her  home.  While  there  she  lets  no 
one  bring  her  water  except  her  husband,  and  as  soon  as  he  sets  it 
down  she  puts  a  magic  quill  into  it.  If  the  water  falls  from  this 
clear,  her  husband  has  been  faithful  to  her ;  if  it  is  slimy,  he  has 
been  unfaithful.  At  last  she  sees  that  the  water  is  slimy,  and,  get- 
ting up,  starts  to  walk  back  to  her  father  on  the  surface  of  the 
ocean.  Her  husband  follows  her,  but  presently  she  looks  at  him 
and  he  goes  down  out  of  sight. 

29.  The  Shell-fish's  Victim.  —  A  man  reaches  under  a  rock, 
and  a  bivalve  closes  upon  his  hand  so  that  it  cannot  be  removed. 
When  the  tide  rises,  he  is  covered,  and  either  disappears  or  is 
drowned. 

30.  Acquirement  of  Wealth  by  a  Shaman.  —  A  shaman  sends 
diseases  into  the  son  of  some  wealthy  man  and  afterward  cures  him, 
obtaining  thereby  a  great  quantity  of  property. 

3 1 .  Visit  of  a  Shaman  to  the  Animals.  —  A  shaman  is  sent  for 
by  some  animals,  usually  land  otters,  to  cure  one  of  their  number 
who  has  been  wounded  by  hunters.  He  removes  a  spear-point  and 
obtains  some  supernatural  gift  in  payment.  When  he  first  comes 
among  these  people,  they  try  to  make  him  think  that  the  patient  is 
in  another  house  by  filling  it  with  people,  but  he  puts  his  rattle  on 
the  ground,  and  it  goes  up  before  him  to  the  right  place. 

32.  The  Stolen  Skin.  —  A  man's  friend  dies  and  his  body  is 
placed  in  a  grave-box,  which  his  friend  watches  continually.  By 
and  by  he  sees  some  people  come  by  canoe  and  carry  off  his 
friend's  skin.  The  friend  gets  in  along  with  them,  and  as  they  are 
on  the  way  makes  their  chief  sick  by  grasping  him  tightly  around 
the  body.  When  they  reach  home,  these  people  send  for  shamans 
who  practise  upon  him  vainly,  until  a  very  powerful  shaman  is  sent 
for  who  discovers  what  is  wrong.  He  gets  the  skin  for  the  dead 
man's  friend  and  sends  him  home. 


I02    .  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [s.  s.,  7,  1905 

33.  The  Ground-hog  Mountain.  — A  young  man  accompanies 
his  uncle  to  a  mountain  that  the  latter  owns,  where  there  are  many 
ground-hogs.  Arrived  there  they  find  that  the  ground-hogs  have 
left  it  and  gone  to  a  mountain  farther  back.  When  they  get  to 
this  place  the  youth  creeps  into  the  cave  where  they  are,  ahead 
of  his  uncle,  and  he  is  suddenly  possessed  by  spirits  and  becomes 
a  shaman. 

34.  The  Wild  Man.  —  A  man  takes  a  notion  to  live  entirely 
alone.  He  is  met  by  people  at  various  times,  but  refuses  to  go 
with  them.  He  is  said  to  live  on  raw  food  and  to  cut  up  and  carry 
home  very  small  birds  as  if  they  were  large  animals. 

35.  The  Bug-a-boo. — ^A  child  is  a  great  cry-baby.  One  time  a 
supernatural  being  comes  to  the  house,  calls  to  it,  and  induces  it  to 
follow  him.  Its  parents  pursue  and  see  their  child  carried  down 
into  the  earth.  Then  they  began  to  dig  over  the  place  where  it  has 
disappeared,  but  in  vain.  After  some  time  the  child  comes  back  or 
is  discovered,  but  soon  dies.  This  story  is  used  to  frighten  chil- 
dren into  obedience. 

36.  The  Fatal  Misunderstanding.  —  A  mother  tells  her  little 
child  to  give  the  baby  something  to  eat,  but  she  understands  that 
she  is  told  to  kill  it,  and  obeys. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  how  conventional  expressions,  or  what 
might  be  called  the  **  mythic  formulae,"  differ  as  used  by  Haida 
and  Tlingit.  Thus  the  Tlingit  indicate  that  a  town  was  large  by 
saying  "it  was  a  long  town,"  while  the  Haida  equivalent  is,  **it  was 
a  town  of  five  rows  of  houses."  In  Tlingit  a  girl  is  carried  off  by 
some  supernatural  being  because  she  had  said  something  to  offend 
it ;  in  Haida  it  is  because  (or  after)  her  father  has  refused  a  great 
many  suitors  for  her  hand.  In  Tinglit  a  man  kills  his  unkind  uncle 
or  aunt  by  wishing  that  what  he  or  she  eats  will  not  satisfy,  but  in 
Haida  he  does  it  by  feeding  the  person  on  nothing  but  grease. 
Although  the  myths  of  both  peoples  speak  of  traveling  in  canoes 
which  are  alive  and  have  to  be  fed,  in  Tlingit  these  are  always  griz- 
zly bears.  Often  it  is  said  that  the  turnings  in  rivers  were  made  by 
grizzly  bears  who  began  to  turn  round  as  soon  as  they  were  hun- 
gry. While  four  is  nearly  always  the  story  or  mystic  number  in 
Haida,  two  appears  quite  as  often  in  Tlingit.     After  a  child  with 


^ 


SWANTON]  TYPES  OF  HA  ID  A  AND   TLINGIT  MYTHS  IO3 

supernatural  powers  is  born,  the  Tinglit  story-teller  is  content  to 
say  that  it  grew  up  rapidly  and  hunted  continually,  but  the  Haida 
must  add  that  it  cried  for  a  bow  and  arrows  and  was  not  satisfied 
until  it  obtained  some  made  out  of  copper.  Among  the  Haida, 
too,  a  supernatural  being  is  usually  killed  by  cutting  its  body  apart 
and  throwing  a  whetstone  between,  on  which  the  body  grinds  itself 
"to  nothing.'*  To  express  plenty  the  Tlingit  say  that  one  could 
not  see  the  inside  of  the  house  for  the  multitude  of  things  in  it ;  a 
child  that  has  eaten  something  against  the  wishes  of  its  elders  has 
the  inside  of  its  mouth  scratched ;  a  medicine  animal  often  appears 
in  the  shape  of  a  bear ;  and  it  is  always  said  of  a  supernatural  be- 
ing addicted  to  the  habit  of  doing  away  with  his  wives  periodically 
that  '*  his  wives  do  not  last  long." 


POPULAR     FALLACIES    RESPECTING    THE    INDIANS 

By  henry  W.  HENSHAW 

Since  the  day  when  Columbus  miscalled  the  aborigines  of 
America  "  Indians,"  believing  that  he  had  discovered  India,  popu- 
lar fallacies  respecting  them  have  been  numerous  and  widespread. 
Some  of  the  more  important  of  them  will  be  discussed  here. 

Origin  of  tlie  Indians.  —  As  soon  as,  or  even  before,  the  newly- 
discovered  continent  was  found  to  be  not  connected  with  Asia,  the- 
ories of  the  origin  of  the  Indians  began  to  be  formulated  by  the 
learned,  and,  consistently  with  the  religious  spirit  of  the  age,  a  solu- 
tion of  the  problem  was  sought  in  Hebrew  tradition.  In  the  Indians 
were  recognized  the  descendants  of  the  "  lost  tribes  of  Israel."  The 
latest  and  most  earnest  supporters  of  the  Hebrew  origin  are  the 
Mormons,  whose  statements  are  alleged  to  have  the  authority  of 
direct  revelation.  Absurd  as  the  theory  is  in  the  light  of  present 
knowledge,  anthropology  owes  to  it  several  valuable  treatises 
on  the  habits  and  characteristics  of  the  Indians,  which  it  could  ill 
afford  to  lose,  notably  Lord  Kingsborough's  Mexican  Antiquities 
and  Adair's  History  of  the  North  American  Indians^  the  latter  book 
being  filled  with  fancied  similarities  to  Jewish  customs,  rites,  and 
even  traditions. 

Equally  absurd,  but  less  widespread,  was  the  myth  of  a  tribe  of 
Welsh  Indians,  descendants  of  a  colony  reputed  to  have  been 
founded  by  Prince  Madoc  about  1 1 70.  The  myth  located  them, 
with  their  Welsh  language  and  Welsh  Bible,  first  on  the  Atlantic 
coast,  where  they  were  identified  with  the  Tuscarora,  and  then 
farther  and  farther  west,  until  about  1776  we  find  the  Welsh,  or 
"white,"  Indians  on  the  Missouri,  where  they  appeared  as  the 
Mandan  (according  to  Catlin),  later  on  Red  river.  Later  still  they 
were  identified  with  the  Hopi  of  Arizona,[and  finally  with  the  Modoc 
of  Oregon,  afler  which  they  vanish.^ 

'MooDcy  in  Am,  Anthrop,,  iv,  393,   1891. 

104 


HENSHAW]  FALLACIES  RESPECTING   THE  INDIANS  I05 

Other  seekers  of  a  foreign  origin  for  the  American  aborigines 
have  derived  them  in  turn  from  Greeks,  Chinese,  Japanese,  Phoeni- 
cians, Irish,  Polynesians,  and  even  from  the  peoples  of  Australasia. 
Most  of  these  theories  are  based  on  fortuitous  analogies  in  habits,  in- 
stitutions, and  arts ;  but  the  attempt  is  frequently  made  to  strengthen 
them  by  alleged  similarities  of  language,  language  being  confess- 
edly the  principal  basis  for  classifying  peoples.  The  general  sim- 
ilarity of  the  human  mind  in  similar  stages  of  culture  in  every  part 
of  the  world,  with  its  proneness  to  produce  similar  arts,  institutions, 
religious  ideas,  myths,  and  even  material  products,  sufficiently  ex- 
plains the  former  class  of  facts,  whilst  the  hypotheses  of  identity  of 
language,  based,  as  they  invariably  are,  on  a  small  number  of  verbal 
similarities  in  the  nature  of  coincidences,  are  wholly  disproved  on 
adequate  examination  and  analysis. 

Indian  Langtiages,  —  Indian  languages  are  so  utterly  unlike 
European  speech  in  sound  and  so  different  in  structure  and  charac- 
ter that  it  is  not  surprising  that  erroneous  conceptions  concerning 
them  should  arise.  The  unlearned  conceived  the  ideas  that  the 
speech  of  all  Indians  of  whatsoever  tribe  was  practically  the  same, 
that  it  was  little  more  than  a  sort  of  gibberish,  that  it  contained  but 
a  small  number  of  words,  that  to  eke  out  its  shortcomings  the 
Indian  was  compelled  to  use  gestures,  that  it  was  hardly  human 
speech,  much  less  orderly  and  well  developed  language. 

A  comprehension  of  the  manifold  variety  of  Indian  linguistic 
families,  embracing  a  multitude  of  languages  and  dialects,  of  their 
rich  vocabularies,  flexible  grammatical  methods,  and  general  suffi- 
ciency to  express  any  and  all  concepts  the  Indian  mind  is  capable 
of  entertaining,  above  all,  of  their  capacity,  shared  with  more 
advanced  tongues,  of  indefinite  expansion  corresponding  to  culture 
growth,  was  reserved  for  a  later  period  and  more  complete  study. 
The  intricacies  of  Indian  languages  are  even  yet  but  partially  under- 
stood ;  their  proper  study  has  hardly  begun,  so  vast  is  the  field. 

Indians  not  Nomadic,  —  One  of  the  common  fallacies  of  early 
historians,  by  no  means  yet  entirely  dissipated,  was  the  idea  that 
the  Indians  were  generally  nomadic,  having  no  fixed  place  of  abode, 
but  wandering  hither  and  yon  as  fancy  or  the  necessities  of  ex- 
istence demanded.     The  term  nomadic  is  not,  in  fact,  properly  ap- 


(/ 


I06  AMERICAN  ANTHROPaLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7.  1903 

plicable  to  any  Indian  tribe.  Every  tribe  and  every  congeries  of 
tribes,  with  exceptions  to  be  noted,  laid  claim  to  and  dwelt  within 
the  limits  of  a  certain  tract  or  region  the  boundaries  of  which  were 
well  understood  and  were  handed  down  by  tradition  and  never  re- 
linquished save  to  a  superior  force.  Between  many  of  the  tribes, 
indeed,  were  debatable  areas,  owned  by  none  but  claimed  by  all, 
which  from  time  immemorial  formed  the  cause  of  disputes  and  inter- 
tribal wars.  Most  or  all  of  the  tribes  east  of  Mississippi  river, 
except  in  the  north,  and  some  west  of  it,  were  to  a  greater  or  less 
extent  agricultural  and  depended  much  for  food  on  the  products 
of  their  tillage.  During  the  hunting  season  such  tribes  or  villages 
broke  up  into  small  parties  and  dispersed  over  their  domains  more 
or  less  widely  in  search  of  game ;  or  they  visited  the  seashore  for 
fish  and  shellfish.  Only  in  this  restricted  sense  may  they  be  said 
to  be  nomadic.  The  so-called  "  horse  Indians "  and  the  Plains 
Indians,  at  least  after  the  latter  acquired  the  horse,  wandered  very 
widely  in  search  of  their  chief  dependence,  the  buffalo.  Though 
most  of  these  had  no  fixed  and  permanent  villages,  they  yet  pos- 
sessed clear  ideas  as  to  the  extent  of  their  own  territory  as  well  as 
that  of  their  neighbors.  The  Athapascan  and  Algonquian  tribes  of 
the  far  north,  where  absence  of  agriculture,  the  wide  expanses  of 
desolate  territory,  and  the  nature  of  the  game  necessitated  frequent 
changes  of  abode  and  forbade  any  form  of  fixed  village  life,  most 
nearly  approached  nomadic  life. 

Indian  Ownership  of  Land,  —  The  exact  nature  of  Indian  own- 
ership of  land  appears  not  to  have  been  understood  by  the  early 
settlers,  and  the  misunderstanding  was  the  fruitful  source  of  trouble 
and  even  bloodshed.  Neither  the  individual  Indian  nor  the  family 
possessed  vested  rights  in  land.  The  land  belonged  to  the  tribe  as 
a  whole.  Individual  families  and  clans  might  appropriate  for  their 
own  use  and  tillage  any  portion  of  the  tribe's  unoccupied  domain. 
Hence  it  was  impossible  for  a  chief,  family,  clan,  or  any  section  of  a 
tribe  legally  to  sell  or  to  give  away  to  aliens,  white  or  red,  any  part 
of  the  tribal  domain,  and  the  inevitable  consequences  of  illegal  sales 
or  gifls  was  bad  feeling,  followed  oflen  by  repudiation  of  the  con- 
tract by  the  tribe  as  a  whole.  Attempts  by  the  whites  to  enforce 
these  supposed  legal  sales  were  followed  by  disorder  and  bloodshed, 
often  by  prolonged  wars. 


HENSHAW]         FALLACIES  RESPECTING    THE  INDIANS  IO7 

Ideas  of  Royalty.  —  It  is  perhaps  not  strange  that  the  early  emi- 
grants to  America,  habituated  to  European  ideas  of  royal  descent 
and  kingly  prerogative,  should  describe  the  simple  village  and 
tribal  organizations  of  the  Indians  with  high-sounding  phrases* 
Early  treatises  on  the  Indians  teem  with  the  terms  "king," 
"qiieen,"  and  "princess,**  and  even  with  ideas  of  hereditary  priv- 
ilege and  rank.  It  would  be  difficult  to  imagine  states  of  society 
more  unlike  than  one  implied  by  such  terms  and  the  simple  democ- 
racy of  most  of  the  Indians.  On  the  northwest  coast  ideas  of  caste 
had  gained  a  foothold,  principally  founded  on  a  property  basis,  but 
this  was  exceptional.  Equality  and  independence  were  the  cardinal 
principles  of  Indian  society.  In  some  tribes,  as  the  Iroquois,  certain 
of  the  highest  chieftaincies  were  confined  to  certain  clans,  and  these 
may  be  said  in  a  modified  sense  to  have  been  hereditary.  Practi- 
cally, however,  all  the  offices  within  the  limits  of  the  tribal  govern- 
ment were  purely  elective.  The  ability  of  the  candidates,  their 
courage,  eloquence,  previous  services,  above  all  their  personal  pop- 
ularity, formed  the  basis  for  election  to  any  and  all  offices.  No 
power  in  any  wise  analogous  to  that  of  the  despot,  no  rank  savoring 
of  inheritance,  as  we  understand  the  term,  existed  among  our 
Indians.  Even  military  service  was  not  compulsory,  but  he  who 
would  might  organize  a  war  party,  and  the  courage  and  known 
prowess  in  war  of  the  leader  chiefly  determined  the  number  of  his 
followers.  So  loose  were  the  ties  of  authority  on  the  warpath  that 
a  bad  dream  or  an  unlucky  presage  was  enough  to  diminish  the 
number  of  the  war  party  at  any  time  or  even  to  break  it  up  entirely. 

The  idea  prevalent  among  the  colonists  of  a  legal  executive  head 
over  the  Indians,  a  so-called  king,  was  acceptable  on  account  of  the 
aid  it  lent  to  the  transaction  of  business  with  the  Indians,  especially 
to  the  enforcement  of  contracts.  It  enabled  the  colonists  to  treat 
directly  and  effectively  with  one  man,  or  at  most  with  a  few,  for  the 
sale  of  land,  instead  of  with  the  tribe  as  a  whole.  The  fact  is  that 
social  and  political  organization  was  of  the  lowest  kind ;  the  very 
name  of  tribe,  with  implication  of  a  body  bound  together  by  social 
ties  and  under  some  central  authority,  is  of  very  uncertain  application. 

Knowledge  of  Medicine,  —  Many  erroneous  ideas  of  the  practice 
of  medicine  among  the  Indians  are  current,  often  fostered  by  quacks 


I08  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s^  7,  1905 

who  claim  to  have  received  herbs  and  methods  of  practice  from  noted 
Indian  doctors.  The  medical  art  among  all  Indians  was  rooted  in 
sorcery ;  and  the  prevailing  idea  that  diseases  were  caused  by  the 
presence  or  acts  of  evil  spirits,  which  could  be  removed  only  by 
sorcery  and  incantation,  controlled  diagnosis  and  treatment  This 
conception  gave  rise  to  both  priest  and  physician.  Combined  with 
it  there  grew  up  a  certain  knowledge  of  and  dependence  upon 
simples,  one  important  development  of  which  was  what  we  know  as 
the  doctrine  of  signatures,  according  to  which  the  color,  shape,  and 
markings  of  plants  are  supposed  to  indicate  the  organs  for  which 
in  disease  they  are  supposed  to  be  efficacious  specifics.  There  was 
current  in  many  tribes,  especially  among  the  old  women,  a  rude 
knowledge  of  the  therapeutic  use  of  a  considerable  number  of  plants 
and  roots  and  of  the  sweating  process,  which  was  employed  with 
little  discrimination. 

Tlie  Great  Spirit,  —  Among  the  many  erroneous  conceptions  re- 
garding the  Indian  none  has  taken  deeper  root  than  the  one  which 
ascribes  to  him  belief  in  an  overruling  deity,  the  "  Great  Spirit." 
Very  far  removed  from  this  tremendous  conception  of  one  all- 
powerful  deity  was  the  Indian  belief  in  a  multitude  of  spirits  that 
dwelt  in  animate  and  inanimate  objects,  to  propitiate  which  was  the 
chief  object  of  his  supplications  and  sacrifices.  To  none  of  his 
deities  did  the  Indian  ascribe  moral  good  or  evil.  His  religion  was 
practical.  The  spirits  were  the  source  of  good  or  bad  fortune 
whether  on  the  hunting  path  or  the  war  trail,  in  the  pursuit  of  a 
wife  or  in  a  ball  game.  If  successful  he  adored,  offered  sacrifices, 
and  made  valuable  presents.  If  unsuccessful  he  cast  his  manitou 
away  and  offered  his  faith  to  more  powerful  or  more  friendly  deities. 

In  this  world  of  spirits  the  Indian  dwelt  in  perpetual  fear.  He 
feared  to  offend  the  spirits  of  the  mountains,  of  the  dark  wood,  of 
the  lake,  of  the  prairie.  The  real  Indian  was  a  different  creature 
from  the  joyous  and  untrammeled  savage  pictured  and  envied  by  the 
poet  and  philosopher. 

Happy  Hunting  Ground,  —  If  the  term  be  understood  to  imply 
nothing  more  than  a  belief  of  the  Indian  in  a  future  existence,  it 
answers,  perhaps,  as  well  as  another.  That  the  Indian  believes  in 
a  future  life  his  mortuary  rites  abundantly  testify.     It  may  be  con- 


"k. 


HENSHAW]  FALLACIES  RESPECTING   THE  INDIANS  IO9 

iidently  stated  that  no  tribe  of  American  Indians  was  without  some 
idea  of  a  life  after  death  ;  but  as  to  its  exact  nature  and  whereabouts 
the  Indian's  ideas,  differing  in  different  tribes,  were  vague.  Nor 
does  it  appear  that  belief  in  a  future  life  had  any  marked  influence 
on  the  daily  life  and  conduct  of  the  individual.  The  American 
Indian  seems  not  to  have  evolved  the  idea  of  hell  and  future 
punishment. 

Division  of  Labor.  —  The  position  of  woman  in  Indian  society, 
especially  as  regards  the  division  of  labor,  has  been  misunderstood. 
Historians  have  generally  pictured  her  as  a  drudge  and  slave,  toiling 
incessantly,  while  her  indolent  husband  idles  away  most  of  the  time 
and  exists  chiefly  by  the  fruits  of  her  labor.  While  the  picture  is 
not  wholly  false,  it  is  much  overdrawn,  chiefly  because  the  observa- 
tions which  suggest  it  were  made  about  the  camp  or  village,  in 
which  and  in  the  neighboring  fields  lay  the  peculiar  province  of 
woman's  activity.  In  addition  to  the  nurture  of  children,  their 
duties  were  the  care  of  the  habitation,  cooking,  preparation  of 
skins,  and  the  making  of  clothing,  pottery,  and  basketry;  and 
among  many  tribes  they  were  expected  also  to  help  bring  home 
the  spoils  of  the  chase.  Among  agricultural  tribes  tillage  of  the 
fields  was  largely  woman's  work.  Thus  her  tasks  were  many  and 
laborious,  but  she  had  her  hours  for  gossip  and  for  special  women's 
games.  In  an  Indian  community,  where  the  food  question  is  always 
a  serious  one,  there  can  be  no  idle  hands.  The  women  were  aided 
in  their  round  of  tasks  by  the  children  and  the  old  men.  Where 
slavery  existed  their  toil  was  further  lightened  by  the  aid  of  slaves, 
and  in  other  tribes  captives  were  often  compelled  to  aid  in  the 
women's  work. 

The  men  did  all  the  hunting,  fishing,  and  trapping,  which  in 
savagery  are  always  toilsome,  frequently  dangerous,  and  not  rarely 
fatal,  especially  in  winter.  The  man  alone  bore  arms,  and  to  him  be- 
longed the  chances  and  dangers  of  war.  The  making  and  admin- 
istration  of  laws,  the  conduct  of  treaties,  and  the  general  regulation 
of  tribal  affairs  were  in  the  hands  of  the  men,  though  in  these  fields 
woman  also  had  important  prerogatives.  To  men  were  entrusted  all 
the  important  ceremonies  and  most  of  the  religious  rites,  also  the 
task  of  memorizing  tribal  records  and  treaties,  as  well  as  rituals. 


I  lO  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

which  involved  astonishing  feats  of  memory.  The  chief  manual 
labor  of  the  men  was  the  manufacture  of  hunting  and  war  imple- 
ments, an  important  occupation  that  took  much  time.  The  manu- 
facture of  canoes,  also,  was  chiefly  man's  work.  Thus  in  Indian 
society  the  position  of  woman  was  always  subordinate,  and  the  lines 
of  demarcation  between  the  duties  of  the  sexes  were  everywhere 
sharply  drawn.  Nevertheless,  the  division  of  labor  was  not  so 
unequal  as  it  might  seem  to  the  casual  observer,  and  it  is  difficult  to 
understand  how  the  line  could  have  been  more  fairly  drawn  in  a 
state  of  society  where  the  military  spirit  was  so  dominant.  Indian 
communities  lived  in  constant  danger  of  attack,  and  their  men, 
whether  in  camp  or  on  the  march,  must  ever  be  ready  at  a  moment's 
warning  to  seize  their  arms  and  defend  their  homes  and  families. 

Where  Indian  communities  adopted  settled  village  life,  as  did 
the  Pueblo  peoples,  or  where  the  nature  of  tribal  wealth  was  such 
as  to  enable  women  to  become  property-holders  on  a  large  scale,  as 
among  the  Navaho,  whose  women  own  the  sheep,  or  where  slavery 
was  an  established  institution  and  extensively  practised,  as  among 
the  northwest  coast  tribes,  the  position  of  women  advanced,  and 
there  ensued,  among  other  social  changes,  a  more  equal  division  of 
laborious  tasks. 

Indian  Population.  —  Early  estimates  of  Indian  population  were 
greatly  exaggerated,  chiefly  because  they  were  based  on  the  num- 
bers observed  in  the  more  populous  districts,  as  along  the  coast,  on 
the  natural  waterways,  and  in  permanent  settlements.  The  infer- 
ence was  that  elsewhere  the  population  was  equally  large,  whereas 
the  country  as  a  whole  was  but  sparsely  populated,  and  there  were 
extensive  tracts  in  the  United  States  which  were  practically  unin- 
habited. Later,  when  a  fairly  accurate  census  revealed  a  compara- 
tively small  population,  the  difference  between  the  first  estimates  and 
the  actual  numbers  was  accounted  for  by  the  theory  of  rapid  deci- 
mation due  to  pestilence.  The  Indian  population  of  prehistoric 
America  can  never  be  known,  but  all  available  data  indicate  that  it 
could  not  possibly  have  exceeded  a  million ;  many  authorities  be- 
lieve an  estimate  of  half  that  number  sufficient. 

Degeneracy  of  Mixed-bloods,  —  It  has  long  been  an  adage  that 
the  mixed-blood  is  a  moral  degenerate,  exhibiting  few  or  none  of 


HKNSHAW]  FALLACIES  RESPECTING    THE  INDIANS  1 1 1 

the  virtues  of  either,  but  all  the  vices  of  both  of  the  parent  stocks. 
In  various  parts  of  the  country  there  are  many  mixed-bloods  of 
undoubted  ability  and  of  high  moral  standing,  and  there  is  no  evi- 
dence to  prove  that  the  low  moral  status  of  the  average  mixed- 
bloods  of  the  frontier  is  a  necessary  result  of  mixture  of  blood,  but 
there  is  much  to  indicate  that  it  arises  chiefly  from  his  unfortunate 
environment.  The  mixed-blood  finds  little  favor  with  either  race, 
while  his  superior  education  and  advantages,  derived  from  associa- 
tion with  the  whites,  enable  him  to  outstrip  his  Indian  brother  in  the 
pursuit  of  either  good  or  evil.  Absorption  into  the  dominant  race 
is  likely  to  be  the  fate  of  the  Indian,  and  there  is  no  reason  to  fear 
that  when  freed  from  his  anomalous  environment  the  mixed-blood 
will  not  win  an  honorable,  social,  industrial,  and  political  place  in  the 
national  life. 

Indian  Pygmies  and  Giants.  —  All  times  and  all  peoples  have 
had  traditions  of  pygmies  and  giants.  It  is  therefore  nowise  sur- 
prising that  such  myths  were  early  transplanted  to  American  soil. 
The  story  of  an  ancient  race  of  pygmies  in  Tennessee,  familiar  to 
most  archeologists,  owes  its  origin  to  the  discovery,  in  the  early  half 
of  the  last  century,  of  numerous  small  stone  coffins,  or  cists,  contain- 
ing skeletons.  The  largest,  measured  by  Featherstonhaugh,  was  24 
inches  long  by  9  inches  deep.  The  small  size  of  the  cists  was 
assumed  by  their  discoverers  to  be  proof  of  the  existence  of  a  race 
of  dwarfs,  and  the  belief  gained  ready  credence  and  exists  to  the 
present  day  in  the  minds  of  a  few.  In  many  cases  the  skeletons  of 
the  supposed  dwarfs  proved  to  be  those  of  children,  while,  as  pointed 
out  by  Jones  and  Thomas,  the  skeletons  of  the  adults  found  in  the 
cists  had  been  deprived  of  flesh,  a  common  Indian  mortuary  custom, 
and  then  disjointed,  when  the  bones  of  an  adult  could  be  packed 
into  a  very  small  space. 

A  race  of  dwarfs  has  also  been  popularly  ascribed  to  the  cliff- 
dweller  region  of  New  Mexico  and  Arizona,  partly  owing  to  the 
finding  of  shriveled  and  shrunken  mummies  of  children,  too  hastily 
assumed  to  be  those  of  dwarfs,  and  partly  owing  to  the  discovery 
of  small  apartments  in  the  cliff  dwellings,  of  the  nature  of  cubby- 
holes for  the  storage  of  property,  the  entrances  to  which  were  too 
small  to  permit  the  passage,  erect,  of  an  ordinar>-  man  ;  hence,  in  the 


112  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

mind  of  the  discoverers,  they  must  have  been  used  by  dwarfs.  The 
Pueblo  peoples  are,  indeed,  of  relatively  small  stature,  but  they  are 
as  far  from  being  dwarfs  as  other  Indians  from  being  giants.^ 

The  myth  of  the  discovery  of  giant  skeletons  perennial  in  news- 
papers, is  revived  at  times  by  the  finding  of  huge  fossil  mammalian 
remains  of  ancient  epochs,  erroneously  supposed  by  the  ignorant  to 
be  human  ;  at  others  by  the  discovery  of  buried  skeletons  the  bones 
of  which  have  in  the  course  of  time  become  separated  so  as  to  give 
the  impression  of  beings  of  unusual  height.  There  was  considerable 
diversity  of  stature  among  Indian  tribes,  some,  as  the  Pueblos,  being 
of  rather  small  size,  while  among  the  tribes  of  the  lower  Colorado 
and  the  Plains  were  many  men  of  unusual  size.  Now  and  then,  too, 
as  among  other  peoples,  a  man  is  found  who  is  a  real  giant  among 
his  kind  ;  a  skeleton  was  exhumed  in  West  Virginia  which  measured 
yyi  feet  in  length  and  19  inches  across  the  shoulders. 

Mound-builders  and  Cliff-dwellers.  —  The  belief  was  formerly 
held  by  many  that  the  mound-builders  of  the  Mississippi  valley  and 
the  cliff-dwellers  of  the  southwestern  border  were  racially  distinct 
from  the  Indians  or  had  reached  a  superior  degree  of  culture.  The 
more  thoroughly  the  mounds  and  cliff  ruins  have  been  explored  and 
the  more  carefully  the  artifacts,  customs,  and  culture  status  of  these 
ancient  peoples  are  studied,  the  more  apparent  is  it  that  their  attain- 
ments were  nowise  superior  to  those  of  the  later  Indian.  There  is 
no  evidence  incompatible  with  the  theory  that  the  builders  of  the 
mounds  and  the  dwellers  in  the  cliffs  are  the  ancestors  of  the  tribes 
now  or  recently  in  possession  of  the  same  regions. 

Stolidity  and  Taciturnity,  —  The  idea  of  the  Indian,  once  popu- 
lar, suggests  a  taciturn  and  stolid  character  who  smoked  his  pipe 
in  silence  and  stalked  reserved  and  dignified  among  his  fellows. 
Unquestionably  the  Indian  of  the  Atlantic  slope  differed  in  many 
respects  from  his  kinsmen  farther  west ;  it  may  be  that  the  forest 
Indian  of  the  north  and  east  imbibed  something  of  the  spirit  of  the 
primeval  woods  which,  deep  and  gloomy,  overspread  much  of  his 
region.     If  so,  he  has  no  counterpart  in  the  regions  west  of  the 


For  details  respecting  the  dwarfs  of  Tennessee  see  Haywood,  Natural  and  Aborig- 
inal History  of  Tennessee^  1823  ;  and  Jones,  Antiquities  of  Tennessee^  10,  1876. 


HENSHAW]  FALLACIES  RESPECTING    THE  INDIANS  II3 

Mississippi.  On  occasions  of  ceremony  and  religion  the  western 
Indian  can  be  both  dignified  and  solemn,  as  befits  the  occasion,  but 
his  nature,  if  not  as  bright  and  sunny  as  that  of  the  Polynesian,  is  at 
least  as  far  removed  from  moroseness  as  his  disposition  is  from  taci* 
tumity.  The  Indian  of  the  present  day  has  a  fair  sense  of  humor 
and  is  by  no  means  a  stranger  to  jest,  laughter,  and  even  repartee. 


AM.  AMTH.,  N.  S.,  7—8 


BOOK   REVIEWS 

Th€  American  Xaiion :  A  History.  Volume  IL  Basis  of  American 
History^  ijoo-igoo.  By  Lmxcsrox  Farrasd,  A.M.,  M.D., 
Professor  of  Anthropolog}',  Columbia  University.  New  York  and 
London  :  Harper  Brothers.     1904.     8°,  303  pages,  i  pi.,  10  maps. 

The  American  nation  as  a  political  miit  merely  is  a  subject  easily 
compassed  by  the  historian,  since  its  foundation  lies  not  only  within  the 
period  of  written  history,  but  within  the  narrow  limits  of  discovery  and 
colonization.  But  he  who  would  venture  to  treat  the  national  history  in 
its  fuller  significance  must  carry  his  researches  beyond  the  limits  of  the 
Colinnbian  period  and  over  a  \'ast  range  of  subject-matter ;  he  must  con- 
sider the  races  and  cultures  of  the  Old  World  and  their  &r-reaching  in- 
fluence in  the  New ;  he  must  have  an  intimate  acquaintance  with  the  New 
World,  giving  due  attention  to  its  configuration,  its  climate,  and  its 
resources,  and  must  build  up  the  background  of  his  picture  with  the  his- 
tory of  the  American  race.  These  are  the  elements  that,  in  the  view  of 
Dr  Farrand,  constitute  the  basis  of  the  histor\'  of  the  American  nation. 
The  time  may  or  may  not  have  come  for  an  adequate  presentation  of  this 
history ;  the  point  of  Wew  may  not  yet  be  sufficiently  remote  for  com- 
prehensive vision,  and  the  knowledge  of  the  field  and  its  complex  phe- 
nomena may  not  be  sufficiently  complete ;  but  our  author  has  ventured 
on  the  task,  and  the  future  must  determine  the  wisdom  of  the  under- 
taking and  the  degree  of  his  success. 

In  the  earlier  chapters  the  author  depicts  in  a  simple  and  effective 
manner  the  ph)rsical  features  of  the  continent,  characterizing  the  areas 
fitted  for  human  occupancy  and  pointing  out  the  bearing  of  the  mountain 
masses,  the  deserts,  and  rivers  on  the  distribution  of  populations.  He 
shows  how  the  invading  race  advanced  to  the  conquest  of  the  fertile 
vallejrs  and  the  prairies,  and  how  the  aborigines  were  pushed  inland 
along  the  waterways,  across  the  passes,  and  over  the  portages,  until  the 
great  habitable  areas  were  almost  completely  wrested  from  their  grasp. 
The  special  areas  that  had  nurtured  the  native  communities  and  developed 
their  peculiar  culture  now  became  the  focal  centers  for  the  development 
of  the  new  people  and  the  new  culture.  Dr  Farrand  summarizes  the 
characteristics  of  the  great  areas  of  human  activity,  and  enumerates 
(touching  all  too  lightly  on  the  mineral  kingdom)  the  resources  which, 

114 


BOOK  REVIEWS  II5 

under  the  simple  regime  of  the  Indian,  gave  him  an  impulse  toward  civil- 
ization, and  which  in  the  stronger  grasp  of  the  white  race  created  a  new 
empire  almost  within  the  limit  of  a  lifetime.  Having  covered  this  much 
of  the  ground,  the  author  takes  up  the  story  of  the  native  tribes  as  an 
essential  part  of  the  national  history. 

Chapter  5  is  devoted  to  a  consideration  of  the  very  important  ques- 
tion of  the  antiquity  of  man  in  what  is  now  the  domain  of  the  American 
nation.  The  geological  evidence  is  dismissed  with  a  few  short  para- 
graphs, leaving  the  impression  that  as  yet  little  satisfactory  proof  of  great 
antiquity  has  been  found.  Facts  relied  on  when  investigations  began  a 
few  years  ago  as  fully  establishing  the  existence  of  conditions  of  occu- 
//pancy  and  culture  parallel  with  those  of  Europe,  have  more  recently 
been  given  different  and  much  simpler  interpretations.  Finds  of  artifacts 
in  Glacial  gravels  are  too  few  and  too  imperfectly  attested  to  carry  con- 
viction to  the  conservative  student,  and  it  is  pointed  out  that  caves  which 
have  for  untold  centuries  offered  free  shelter  to  the  tribes  that  have  come 
and  gone,  yield  no  trace  of  occupancy  by  others  than  the  Indian  tribes 
as  known  to  us.  It  is  justly  considered,  however,  that  the  continent 
must  have  been  occupied  for  thousands  of  years,  the  well -authenticated 
traces  extending  far  back  toward  the  period  that  witnessed  the  final 
retreat  of  the  Glacial  ice  beyond  the  northern  limits  of  the  Great  I^kes. 
The  mound  builders  and  the  cliff  dwellers,  about  whom  much  misconcep- 
tion and  error  have  insisted  on  clustering,  are  relegated  to  their  proper 
place  in  the  simple  history  of  Indian  occupancy.  In  the  light  of  the 
straightforward  and  judicious  interpretations  presented  by  Dr  Farrand, 
the  cobwebs  of  early  misinterpretation  are  swept  completely  away. 

In  Chapter  6  a  comprehensive  glance  is  taken  of  the  North  Ameri- 
can aborigines  for  the  period  beginning  with  1500  and  ending  with  1900 
—  the  period  during  which  they  have  been  under  the  observation  of  our 
own  race.  The  first  requisite  in  this  presentation  is  a  classification  of  the 
extensive  and  complex  phenomena  involved,  and  it  is  pointed  out  that 
four  groupings  of  the  tribes  are  possible  :  by  physical  characters,  by  lan- 
guages, by  geographical  areas,  and  by  culture  groups.  The  physical  char- 
acters are  varied  and  pronounced,  but  difficult  to  formulate  in  such  ways 
as  to  serve  as  a  basis  for  treatment.  The  grouping  by  languages  is  re- 
garded as  the  most  satisfactory  for  scientific  discussion,  but  the  tribes 
north  of  Mexico  present  such  a  wonderful  diversity  of  tongues  that  fifty- 
seven  distinct  linguistic  groups  or  families  are  recognized,  making  impos- 
sible a  brief  and  comprehensive  treatment  on  this  basis. 

It  is  believed  by  Dr  Farrand  that  a  grouping  by  geographical  areas 


1 1 6  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  i^c^ 

is  the  most  satisfactory  for  his  purpK>se,  the  areas  being  such  as  have,  partly 
at  least,  through  their  peculiar  characteristics  of  conformation  and  resour- 
ces, led  to  the  development  of  somewhat  decidedly  distinctive  phases  of 
culture.  By  this  method  the  number  of  groups  may  be  large  or  small  as 
the  treatment  demands.  Seven  are  considered  sufficient  for  the  author's 
purpose,  and  are  as  follows :  ( i )  the  Eskimo  ;  (2)  the  tribes  of  the  North 
Pacific  coast ;  (3)  the  tribes  of  the  Mackenzie  river  basin  and  the  high 
plateaus;  (4)  the  tribes  of  the  Columbia  river  and  California;  (5)  the 
tribes  of  the  Great  Plains ;  (6)  the  tribes  of  the  eastern  woodlands ;  and 
(7)  the  tribes  of  the  Southwest  and  Mexico.  The  Eskimo  occupy  the 
northern  shoreline  of  the  continent  from  Bering  sea  to  Greenland,  and 
originally,  it  is  surmised,  extended  south  into  New  England.  They  are 
a  people  widely  separated  from  the  Indian  in  physical  and  mental  char- 
acters, whose  origin  is  not  determined,  but  whose  adjustment  to  the  Arctic 
environment  and  unique  resultant  culture  are  among  the  most  interesting 
and  instructive  lessons  of  aboriginal  America.  Contrasting  strongly  with 
the  Eskimo,  and  presenting  physical  and  cultural  characters  hardly  less  re- 
markable, are  the  tribes  of  the  Northwest  coast.  The  third  group,  assem- 
bled in  the  great  northern  inland  region,  connects  with  the  Eskimo  on 
the  north  and  extends  from  the  coast  ranges  on  the  west  to  Hudson  bay 
on  the  east ;  while  the  fourth  occupies  the  basin  of  Columbia  river  and  the 
numerous  minor  valleys  opening  out  to  the  Pacific  in  Oregon  and  California. 
The  fifth  group  comprises  the  great  warrior-hunter  tribes  of  the  inland 
plains,  of  which  the  Sioux  are  taken  as  the  type ;  the  sixth,  the  formerly 
powerful  and  strongly  contrasting  Iroquoian  and  Algonquian  groups  of  the 
eastern  woodland  north  and  south,  with  which  the  English  and  French  colon- 
ists had  chiefly  to  deal ;  and  the  seventh,  the  many  tribes  of  the  Southwest 
and  Mexico,  presenting  numerous  physical  types  and  greatly  diversified 
cultures.  Of  the  three  hundred  or  more  tribes  thus  passed  under  review, 
few  could  even  be  mentioned  and  fewer  described  by  Dr  Farrand  with 
any  degree  of  fulness  in  the  brief  space  allotted  ;  but  the  perusal  of  these 
chapters  will  give  the  reader  an  excellent  notion  of  the  people  as  a  whole, 
and  of  the  groups  as  assembled  in  the  great  specialization  areas  of  the 
northern  portions  of  the  continent. 

The  chapters  treating  of  the  social  organization  of  the  tribes ;  houses, 
house  life,  and  food  quest ;  industrial  life  and  warfare  ;  religion,  mythol- 
ogy, and  art ;  and  the  character  and  future  of  the  Indians,  which  follow, 
are  excellent  summaries  of  these  subjects ;  and  the  final  chapter,  a  critical 
essay  on  authorities,  will  prove  to  be  of  high  value  to  the  student. 

Not  without  shortcomings  such  as  necessarily  result  from  the  crowd- 


BOOK  REVIEWS  11/ 

ing  of  a  vast  subject  within  narrow  limits  (the  faults  of  omission),  this 
work  is  charmingly  simple,  direct,  and  comprehensive.  The  reader  is 
not  led  into  troublesome  mazes  of  speculation,  nor  is  he  asked  to  skate  on 
the  thin  ice  of  preconceived  notions ;  the  work  must  therefore  prove  a 
boon  to  schools  and  to  the  general  public,  which  have  too  long  been  at 
the  mercy  of  the  hobby-rider  and  the  sensation-monger.  It  is  conserva- 
tive and  refreshingly  healthy  in  tone  throughout.  The  publishers  will  be 
fortunate  if  the  other  volumes  of  the  composite  work  to  which  this  one 
belongs  reach  an  equal  standard  of  excellence. 

W.  H.  Holmes 

An  Outline  of  the  Theory  of  Organic  Evolution,  with  a  Description  of 
some  of  the  Phenomena  which  it  Explains.     By  Maynard  M.  Met- 
CALF.      New  York :    The   Macmillan  Company.       1904.    8°,  xxii, 
204  pages,  illustrated. 

This  book,  as  the  author  says,  is  not  intended  for  biologists,  but  for 
la3rmen,  and  especially  for  such  as  are  somewhat  young  either  in  years  or 
in  science.  But  many  a  biologist  could  doubtless  refresh  his  memory, 
dimmed  by  long  special  researches,  by  scanning  its  attractive  pages,  and 
especially  its  profuse  and  well-selected  illustrations.  It  covers  the  entire 
field  of  organic  nature,  and  the  examples  are  drawn  as  well  from  plants  as 
from  animals.  The  author,  although  he  says  that  he  believes  **  that  all 
nature  is  controlled  by  an  intelligent  Providence,  *  *  is  a  thoroughgoing 
evolutionist.  He  is  also  open-minded,  and  accepts  all  the  evidence  from 
whatever  source.  For  example,  he  gives  some  excellent  illustrations  of 
sexual  selection,  which  some  eminent  evolutionists  affect  to  discredit. 

If  the  book  were  exclusively  devoted  to  biology  in  the  narrower  sense 
of  dealing  with  plants  and  the  lower  animals,  it  could  not  be  expected 
that  the  American  Anthropologist  would  give  space  to  it,  however  meri- 
torious, but  the  author  has  not  stopped  with  animals  in  the  ordinary 
sense.  He  has  devoted  a  chapter  to  the  evolution  of  man.  In  this  he 
says: 

"Study  of  human  anatomy  shows  mankind  to  be  probably  a  single 
species,  belonging  to  the  Primates,  a  group  of  the  Mammalia,  including, 
besides  man,  the  lemurs  and  the  apes  and  monkeys  of  the  eastern  and 
western  hemispheres.  Man  is  most  related  to  the  Simiida,  the  tailless 
apes  of  Asia  and  Africa,  including  the  gibbon,  the  orang,  the  chimpanzee, 
and  the  gorilla.  It  is  usual  to  place  humankind  in  a  distinct  family  of 
Primates,  Hominida,  It  is  now  the  general  consensus  of  opinion  that  we 
should  recognize  but  a  single  species  and  distinguish  as  subspecies  the 
several  races  of  men.*' 


1 1 8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

In  support  of  these  views  he  gives  the  well-known  figures  of  Huxley 
showing  the  skeletons  of  man  and  the  foiu:  anthropoid  apes,  and  also  the 
remarkable  series  of  embryos  arranged  by  Haeckel  to  show  the  phylogeny 
and  ontogeny  of  man.  This  series  first  appeared  in  Haeckel' s  Anthro- 
pogente,  1874,  pi.  v.  It  has  been  copied  many  times,  and  our  author, 
who  does  not  seem  to  be  acquainted  with  Haeckel' s  work,  borrowed  it 
from  Romanes  (^Darwin  and  after  Darwin,  pp.  152-153). 

The  general  reflections  in  which  the  author  indulges  growing  out  of 
these  and  other  facts  adduced  in  favor  of  human  evolution,  show  a  strong 
coordinating  power  and  a  broad  view  of  his  subject.  The  role  of  the 
higher  mind  is  clearly  grasped,  and  its  bearing  on  the  future  of  evolution, 
both  favorable  and  unfavorable,  is  well  set  forth.  Perhaps  he  somewhat 
exaggerates  the  tendency  of  civilization  to  preserve  the  biologically  unfit, 
but  he  may  be  pardoned,  for  this  is  a  favorite  theme  of  modem  biological 
philosophers,  many  of  whom  are  so  carried  away  by  it  that  they  lose  all 
sense  of  perspective  and  become  wholly  pessimistic.  Not  so  our  author, 
although  he  sounds  the  note  of  warning.  But  he  sees,  as  many  do  not, 
that  intelligence  exempts  mankind  for  the  most  part  from  the  principle  of 
selection,  and  enables  him  to  control  and  transform  his  environment,  in- 
stead of  being  controlled  and  transformed  by  it.  **We  can,"  he  says 
**  to  a  considerable  extent,  control  our  own  evolution.  The  lower  ani- 
mals cannot  do  so.  They  lack  the  intelligence  which  gives  us  this  power. ' ' 
But  he  seems  to  share  with  Galton,  Ribot,  and  others  the  faith  that  what- 
ever progress  is  to  be  brought  about  through  intelligence  must  consist  in 
some  sort  of  rational  stirpiculture  or  *  *  eugenics, ' '  and  be  exclusively 
physiological.  The  idea  of  a  strictly  social  evolution,  as  distinguished 
from  biological  evolution,  seems  to  be  outside  the  range  of  his  studies. 

Lester  F.  Ward. 

An  Introduction  to  the  Theory  of  Mental  and  Social  Measurements,  By 
Edward  L.  Thorndike.  New  York:  The  Science  Press.  1904. 
8®,  xii,  210  pages. 

The  author  claims  this  book  to  be  a  statement  of  the  first  principles 
and  rules  of  procedure  in  the  treatment  of  statistical  data,  to  serve  as  a 
handbook  for  the  students  of  all  sciences  using  statistical  material.  Yet  it 
is  obvious,  on  looking  into  the  special  methods  discussed,  that  the  treatise 
is  expressly  for  the  students  of  education  and  psychology.  The  apparent 
design  of  the  work  is  to  present  methods  of  procedure  based  on  mathe- 
matical conceptions  with  the  mathematics  left  out,  the  author  himself 
being  fiiUy  conscious  of  the  awkwardness  of  his  position.     Since  methods 


BOOK  REVIEWS  1 19 

of  handling  statistics  for  variable  phenomena  are  of  special  interest  to 
physical  anthropology,  an  application  of  methods  to  similar  conditions 
in  other  fields  of  investigation  will  always  deserve  attention.  All  statis- 
tical work  in  variation  proceeds  on  the  assumption  that  variation  is  the 
result  of  a  large  number  of  independent  causes  working  independently, 
the  probabilities  of  their  acting  and  not  acting  being  equal.  Such  a  con- 
dition gives  a  distribution  of  cases  expressed  by  the  binomial  formula. 
Whenever  it  can  be  established  that  anatomical  measurements  for  a 
homogeneous  people  follow  the  same  law,  mathematics  will  be  of  great 
service  and  new  fields  of  research  will  present  themselves.  Physical 
anthropology  has  firmly  established  itself  by  empirically  demonstrating 
the  correspondence  between  the  observed  facts  and  this  mathematical  ex- 
pression. However,  the  great  obstacle  to  research  has  been  the  general 
ignorance  of  mathematics  on  the  part  of  the  workers,  self-justified  by 
traditions  against  the  use  of  its  methods. 

While  the  psychologists  have  been  using  the  same  mathematical 
methods,  they  have  not  yet  demonstrated  in  the  same  rough  fashion  the 
correspondence  between  their  data  and  the  binomial  formula,  or  the  more 
general  expression  of  the  exponential  formula.  The  author  devotes 
much  space  to  the  presentation  of  types  of  distribution  obtained  in  the 
various  kinds  of  data  to  give  the  student  some  idea  of  the  basis  for  the 
assumption  of  the  applicability  of  the  mathematical  formulas  that  hold  for 
the  conditions  of  a  single  type  of  distribution.  This  is  commendable 
and  safe  ground,  but  merely  states  observations.  The  critical  reader  of 
the  book  must  feel  that  the  advice  of  the  author  to  regard  every  distribu- 
tion as  being  of  the  symmetrical  type  unless  there  is  good  reason  for  not 
doing  so  would  rule  out  the  remainder  of  the  book,  since,  as  far  as  can  be 
judged  by  eye,  the  majority  of  the  plotted  distributions  show  asymmetrical 
tendencies.  This  will  doubtless  serve  the  good  purpose  of  making  the 
student  duly  cautious  in  th«  use  of  the  method.  The  weakness  of  the 
author* s  position  is  in  his  failure  to  give  a  satisfactory  basis  for  the  determi- 
nation of  asymmetry.  The  question  of  the  type  of  distribution  would 
have  come  to  something  more  definite  if  the  relation  between  the  higher 
powers  of  the  deviations  and  the  type  of  distribution  had  been  discussed. 
As  it  is,  the  whole  preliminary  discussion  fails  to  suggest  a  way  out  of 
seemingly  hopeless  diversity  of  forms  of  distribution. 

The  book  must  be  estimated  as  an  exposition  of  established  methods 
rather  than  as  a  contribution  to  the  knowledge  of  the  subject.  To  this 
end  the  author  has  chosen  a  few  main  points  and  treated  them  at  length. 
The  illustrative  examples  are  original,  and  although  sometimes  a  little 


I20  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Strained  seem  to  serve  their  purpose:  e,  g.,  John's  Christmas  money, 
the  relative  probability  of  his  receiving  a  dollar  from  different  sources,  is 
carried  through  the  entire  chapter  on  the  cause  of  variability. 

Some  useful  adaptations  of  principles  are  worked  out  by  the  author  as 
special  methods  of  procedure  in  psychological  research :  1.  e. ,  the  trans- 
mutation of  relative  measures  into  those  of  quantity.  The  author's  discus- 
sion of  the  zero  point  of  a  series  seems  unnecessarily  confusing ;  in  this  as 
in  several  other  instances  he  gives  the  reader  the  impression  that  he  is  in 
too  great  haste  to  get  to  the  end.  The  standard  deviation  is  represented 
in  the  exponential  formula  by  fi  and  in  the  text  by  <i- ;  as  this  occurs  on 
the  same  page  without  explanation  it  will  confuse  the  student.  The  dis- 
tinction between  the  mode  and  the  average  is  dwelt  upon  at  length,  but 
it  would  have  been  more  emphatic  if  a  brief  mathematical  demonstration 
had  been  added.  In  the  treatment  of  accuracy  of  measurements  the 
student  should  have  been  given  the  simple  formula  for  the  correction  of 
the  standard  deviation.  These  are  some  of  the  instances  in  which  the 
author's  fear  of  mathematics  led  him  to  eliminate  matter  that  is  really 
useful  to  the  reader  even  though  he  must  take  its  verity  on  faith. 

The  appearance  of  the  book  is  an  encouraging  sign  that  psychology 
may  be  about  to  begin  substantial  advance  in  one  important  part  of  its 
field.  As  a  text  book  for  a  preparatory  course  to  psychological  investiga- 
tion it  has  many  points  of  excellence,  but  the  author's  hope  that  it  will  be 
of  great  service  to  the  unmathematical  reader  is  not  well  grounded,  for 
it  is  the  experience  of  the  reviewer  that  even  such  a  presentation  reaches 
only  the  mathematically  inclined.  Clark  Wissler. 

Notes  d* archiologie  prihistorique,  —  Nos  ancetres  primitifs.  Par  A. 
DoiGNEAU.  Preface  par  le  Docteur  Capitan.  Paris  :  Librarie  C. 
Clavreuil.     1905.     8®,  202  pages,  109  figures. 

This  volume  is  very  well  characterized  by  the  author  in  the  dedication 
as  **a  work  of  popularization  ";  and  again  by  Dr  Capitan  in  the  preface 
as  **  a  concise  r6sum6  of  the  history  of  our  primitive  ancestors. ' '  Turn- 
ing to  the  table  of  contents,  the  history  is  found  to  be  limited  to  the  chap- 
ters dealing  with  the  ages  of  stone.  Such  a  work  marks  a  timely  step  in 
the  right  direction.  The  domain  of  prehistoric  archeology  is  a  broad  one. 
The  period  of  pioneering  has  therefore  of  necessity  been  long.  But  there 
comes  a  time  in  the  development  of  a  science,  as  in  that  of  a  country, 
when  the  trail  should  give  place  to  the  highway.  There  are  those  who 
will  always  prefer  the  trail.  Let  them  still  wander  to  their  heart's  con- 
tent through  the  wilderness.     Their  course  leads  by  way  of  the  numerous 


BOOK  REVIEWS  121 

publications  of  museums,  societies,  academies,  etc. ;  of  scientific  journals, 
government  reports,  books  of  travel,  as  well  as  works  on  special  topics. 
But  that  way  is  too  laborious  for  the  great  majority  whose  means  of  com- 
munication should  be  as  easy  and  direct  as  possible,  and  who  may  choose 
to  be  personally  conducted.  In  that  case,  Doigneau  is  recommended  as 
their  guide.  He  knows  the  field  and  has  supplemented  his  text  by 
copious  references  to  the  original  sources  of  infonnation. 

In  archeology  it  is  necessary  to  know  the  when  as  well  as  the  what 
and  the  where ;  hence  the  importance  of  chronological  classification.  In 
prehistoric  archeology  the  chronology  is  of  necessity  relative  rather  than 
absolute.  The  author  offers  nothing  new  in  the  way  of  classification,  his 
outline  agreeing  practically  with  that  made  by  Gabriel  de  Mortillet  *  more 
than  ten  years  ago.  The  stone  age  is  divided  into  three  periods :  ( i ) 
eolithic,  (2)  paleolithic,  and  (3)  neolithic.  It  is  well  known  that  to  Sir 
John  Lubbock  (Lord  Avebury)  belongs  the  credit  of  first  employing  the 
terms  paleolithic  and  neolithic.  As  to  the  name  eolithic,  the  author 
leaves  one  to  infer  (p.  36)  that  it  was  introduced  by  G.  de  Mortillet. 
Dr  A.  Rutot  *  of  Brussels  also  believes  him  to  have  been  the  first  to  pro- 
pose that  name  to  designate  a  primitive  industry  antedating  the  paleo- 
lithic. In  the  opinion  of  the  reviewer,  and  as  stated  by  him  in  a  paper 
written  last  year  but  not  yet  published,  the  priority  belongs  to  Mr  J. 
Allen  Brown,  late  fellow  of  the  Geological  Society  of  London,  who  made 
use  of  the  term  **  eolithic  **  in  a  communication '  read  before  the  Anthro- 
pological Institute  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  on  March  8th,  1892, 
whereas  de  Mortillet  submitted  his  *  *  Classification  palethnologique  *  *  to 
the  Paris  Society  of  Anthropology  on  December  6,  1894.* 

The  eolithic  period  of  Doigneau,  like  that  of  de  Mortillet,  is  placed 
wholly  in  the  Tertiary.  The  paleolithic  is  referred  to  the  early  Quater- 
nary and  the  neolithic  to  the  Recent.  On  the  other  hand  Rutot  has 
recently  shown  that  the  eolithic  is  by  no  means  confined  to  the  Tertiary 
—  Reutelian,  Reutelo-Mesvinian,  and  Mesvinian  industries  all  occur- 
ring in  the  lower  Quaternary.  In  regard  to  the  subdivisions  of  the 
paleolithic  period,  the  author  does  not  seem  to  share  the  opinion  of 
Professor    Hoemes*    and   others    that   the    Chellean,    Acheulian,    and 

1  Classification  palethnologique,  Buii.  Soc.  d^anthr.  de  Paris ^  1S94,  p.  616. 

»Le  prthistorique  dans  1' Europe  centrale,  etc.  Extrait  du  C-R.  du  Congr, 
d^arch,  etd*hist.j  Dinant,  1903,  p.  244. 

•On  the  continuity  of  the  paleolithic  and  neolithic  periods.    J,  A.  /.,  xxii,  93. 

« Page  616  of  the  Bulletins. 

*  Moriz  Hoernes,  Der  diluviaU  Mensch  in  Europe^  Braunschweig,  Friedrich  Vieweg 
und  Sohn,  1903  (reviewed  in  American  Anthropologist ^  N.  s.,  1903,  v,  695). 


1 22  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Mousterian  epochs  are  but  phases  of  one  and  the  same  industry.  Yet 
he  goes  so  far  as  to  admit  that :  the  Acheulian  cannot  be  considered  as 
constituting  a  veritable  epoch.  It  is  at  the  same  time  the  end  of  the 
Chellean  and  the  beginning  of  the  Mousterian,  a  passage  from  the  one  to 
the  other,  and  marking  a  relatively  short  period  of  time.  The  Solutrean 
is  also  looked  upon  as  a  transition  epoch.  A  good  deal  of  space  is  given  to 
the  closing  epoch  of  the  paleolithic  period  which  was  marked  by  a  real 
passion  for  art.  Indeed  the  Magdalenian  epoch  may  well  be  called  the 
Phidian  age  of  prehistoric  times.  Records  have  been  preserved  of  each 
successive  step  from  sculpture  in  the  round,  through  high-relief  and  low- 
relief  to  delicate  engraving.  Color  was  sometimes  combined  with  engrav- 
ing, as  in  the  remarkable  frescoes  which  adorn  the  cavern  walls  of  Fond- 
de-Gaume,  near  Les  Eyzies.  Curious  markings  suggestive  of  a  halter  on 
some  of  the  figures  of  horses  from  the  cavern  walls  of  Combarelles,  also 
near  Les  Eyzies,  have  led  to  the  question  of  domestication  of  animals 
during  the  paleolithic  period.  Doigneau  does  not  believe  the  evidence 
sufficient  to  demonstrate  that  any  animal  had  become  domesticated  previous 
to  the  arrival  of  the  neolithic  peoples  in  Europe. 

The  closing  chapter  deals  with  the  neolithic  period ;  the  hiatus,  sup- 
posed by  some  to  separate  it  from  the  paleolithic,  the  author  believes  to 
be  non-existent.  In  support  of  this  view  he  marshals  the  evidence 
furnished  by  the  researches  of  de  Mortillet  at  la  Tourasse  (Haute- 
Garonne),  Piette  at  Mas  d'Azil  (Ari^ge),  Salmon  and  Capitan  at  Cam- 
pigny  (Seine-Inftrieure),  and  d*Ault  du  Mesnil  in  the  valley  of  the 
Somme.  The  Tourassian  is  a  transition  epoch.  The  Campignian  epoch 
is  characterized  by  the  survival  of  a  few  ancient  types,  such  as  scrapers, 
double  scrapers,  and  gravers,  and  the  appearance  of  two  new  types,  the 
paring-knife  and  the  pick.  Nowhere  was  there  the  slightest  evidence  of 
an  attempt  at  polishing  the  stone  implements.  This  was  reserved  for  the 
following  epoch,  the  so-called  Robenhausian. 

The  story  as  told  by  Doigneau  is  attractive  throughout.  The  ex- 
cellent figures  are,  happily,  almost  exclusively  of  specimens  in  his  own 
collection.  The  references,  though  numerous,  are  wholly  confined  to 
French  authors  or  French  translations  of  foreign  authors,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  citations  from  a  few  classical  writers  —  a  limitation  perhaps  more 
apparent  than  real  when  the  scope  of  the  work  is  taken  into  consideration. 
A  few  typographical  errors  are  noted,  among  which  may  possibly  be 
classed  the  statement  that  Pithecanthropus  was  found  near  Java. 

George  Grant  MacCurdy. 


BOOK  RE  VIE  IVS  1 23 

Persona!  Names  of  Indians  of  New  Jersey  :  Being  a  list  of  Six  Hundred 
and  Fifty  such  Names,  Gleaned  mostly  from  Indian  deeds  of  the  Seven- 
teenth Century,  By  William  Nelson.  Paterson,  N.  J. :  The 
Paterson  History  Club.    1904.     8®,  83  pages. 

The  title  of  this  book  sufficiently  explains  itself.  The  author,  who 
has  already  given  us  a  work  on  the  **  Indians  of  New  Jersey/'  states  in  the 
preface  that  the  nucleus  of  the  present  compilation  appeared  in  the  Amer- 
ican Anthropologist  for  January,  1902,  and  that  the  interest  manifested 
in  that  publication  has  led  him  to  extend  the  list  to  its  present  proportions. 
''  It  is  believed  that  no  such  list  of  aboriginal  personal  names,  principally 
of  the  seventeenth  century,  has  ever  been  published  before."  It  is  a 
laborious  and  valuable  work,  conscientiously  performed,  of  use  alike  to 
the  historian,  philologist,  and  ethnologist,  particularly  in  connection 
with  the  old  Lenape  or  Delaware  tribe.  Its  usefulness  will  increase  with 
acquaintance,  and  it  would  be  well  if  we  could  have  more  such  compila- 
tions on  which  to  draw  for  material.  James  Mooney. 

The  Mythology  of  the  Wichita,  Collected  under  the  Auspices  of  the  Car- 
negie Institution  of  Washington,  By  George  A.  Dorsey,  Curator  of 
Anthropology,  Field  Columbian  Museum.  Washington  ;  Published 
by  the  Carnegie  Institution  of  Washington.  1904.  (Publication 
No.  21.)     8**,  351  pages. 

This  and  the  companion  volume  by  the  same  author.  Traditions  of  the 
Arikara  (Publication  No.  17)  are  the  most  recent  fruits  of  a  study  of  the 
Caddoan  tribes  begun  several  years  ago  by  Dr  Dorsey  for  the  Field  Co- 
lumbian Museum  and  continued  under  an  allotment  from  the  Carnegie 
Institution.  The  Wichita  are  a  southern  branch,  as  the  Arikara  are  a  north- 
em  branch,  of  the  Pawnee  proper,  all  three  tribes  speaking  the  same 
language  with  dialectic  variations,  and  being  primarily  sedentary  and 
agricultural  in  habit  as  distinguished  from  the  roving,  hunting  tribes  by 
which  they  were  formerly  surrounded.  The  Wichita  of  today,  now  settled 
on  individual  allotments  in  southwestern  Oklahoma,  are  all  that  are  left 
of  three  formerly  distinct  tribes  speaking  the  same  language,  viz. ,  Wichita 
proper,  Waco,  and  Tawaconi,  with  the  Kichai,  of  distinct  but  cognate 
language.  The  Wichita  proper  when  first  known  had  their  villages  on 
the  upper  waters  of  Red  river,  about  Wichita  falls  and  in  the  Wichita 
mountains,  while  the  other  two  bands  lived  farther  south,  and  the  Kichai 
fJButher  east,  in  Texas.  One  hundred  years  ago  the  four  tribes  numbered 
together  at  least  2,500,  the  Wichita  proper  being  estimated  at  400  men. 
In  1874  ^^^y  numbered  together  671  souls;  in  1885  ^^^Y  ^^  dwindled 


^ 


124  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

to  448  and  in  1903  to  338,  a  decrease  of  one-half  in  thirty  years.  Their 
fate  is  the  common  fate  of  the  western  tribes  and  emphasizes  the  necessity 
of  energetic  field  work  while  opportunity  remains.  On  the  field  result  of 
the  next  ten  years  depends  the  final  position  of  American  ethnology. 

In  the  valuable  introductory  sketch  the  earliest  date  noted  is  that  of 
the  Dragoon  expedition  to  the  North  Fork  village  in  1834.  The  docu- 
mentary French  history  of  the  tribe  goes  back  at  least  to  1720.  The 
Rush  Springs  date  given  is  a  misprint  for  1852.  Only  the  Wichita 
proper  lived  at  North  Fork ;  the  other  bands  came  up  from  Texas  in 
1856. 

An  interesting  account  follows  of  the  peculiar  tattooing,  from  which 
the  tribe  derived  the  old  name  of  Pani  Piqu6.  Their  unique  grass  houses 
and  arbors  are  described  in  detail,  and  attention  is  given  to  their  name 
system,  childbirth,  war,  marriage  and  mourning  customs,  all  of  which  are 
dominated  by  the  religious  idea,  the  religion  itself  being  described  as  a 
star  cult,  as  is  also  that  of  the  Pawnee.  The  Sun,  Moon,  and  Morning 
Star  appear  to  be  the  most  prominent  divinities,  the  Moon  presiding 
especially  over  the  destinies  of  the  women.  Time,  from  the  creation  to 
the  death  of  all  things,  is  divided  into  four  eras.  We  are  now  in  the 
fourth  or  era  of  decline,  after  which  there  will  be  a  renewal  by  the  star 
gods  and  another  cycle  of  four  eras  will  begin.  Notwithstanding  the 
commonly  accepted  opinion  that  the  Pawnee  and  Wichita  are  a  part  of 
the  Caddoan  stock  of  the  timber  region  of  Louisiana  and  eastern  Texas, 
both  Dr  Dorsey  and  Miss  Alice  C.  Fletcher  have  independently  arrived  at 
the  same  conclusion,  from  a  study  of  their  cults,  that  the  true  ancient 
home  of  these  tribes  was  in  the  open  country  of  the  plains  or  the  desert 
southwest. 

Sixty  myths  are  given,  including  variants.  Several  of  the  variants 
might  well  have  been  omitted,  being  simply  fragmentary  renderings  of 
the  more  complete  myth  as  told  by  a  better  story-teller.  In  the  shorter 
tales  the  Coyote,  as  usual  on  the  Plains,  appears  as  a  trickster,  usually 
coming  to  grief  in  the  end  by  his  impatience  and  mercenary  desire. 
**  He  would  always  do  something  wrong  and  let  the  power  escape  him.** 
In  **  The  Coyote  and  His  Magic  Shield  and  Arrows  '*  we  are  introduced 
to  some  wonderful  arrows  which  talk  among  themselves  and  go  out  every 
day  hunting  while  their  master  remains  at  home.  **  Finally  all  his  arrows 
came  in,  each  carrying  a  whole  buffalo.  *  *  But  all  this  was  a  long  time 
ago.  In  **The  Seven  Brothers  and  the  Woman,**  **when  she  tossed 
the  double-ball  she  went  with  it  up  in  the  air  *  *  to  escape  her  pursuer. 
This  story,  which  accounts  for  the  origin  of  the  Pleiades,  has  a  close 


BOOK  REVIEWS  12$ 

parallel  among  the  Kiowa.  The  incident  of  smearing  an  unseen  night 
visitor  with  ashes  occurs  in  some  myth  of  nearly  every  tribe  from  the 
Eskimo  to  the  isthmus,  being  usually  told  to  account  for  the  spots  on  the 
moon.  The  main  incident  in  **  The  Woman  who  Married  a  Star'*  is 
also  paralleled  in  probably  all  the  Plains  mythologies. 

Other  coincidences  with  the  universal  body  of  Indian  myth  are  con- 
stantly cropping  out  in  these  Wichita  tales  and  may  be  accepted  as  the 
natural  outcome  of  the  workings  of  the  primitive  mind  under  similar 
circumstances,  but  occasionally  we  find  parallels  which  seem  unaccount- 
able except  on  the  theory  of  actual  contact  by  tribes  or  individuals. 
As  an  instance  take  **  The  Man  who  Went  to  Spirit  Land."  His  wife 
has  died  and  he  goes  night  after  night  to  mourn  at  her  grave.  The  spirit 
of  a  former  friend  appears  and  tells  him  how  he  may  bring  back  the 
woman  from  the  land  of  the  dead.  The  spirit  gives  him  four  mud  balls 
and  instructs  him  how  to  use  them. 

**  His  friend  touched  his  eyes  and  he  found  himself  in  another  world, 
till  with  his  friend.  Around  him,  as  far  as  his  eye  could  see,  he  saw 
lodges.  They  entered  the  homes  of  the  dead,  and  finally  came  to  the 
place  where  the  dance  was,  and  there  the  dead  man  left  his  friend.  The 
live  man  saw  his  wife  dancing,  and  as  she  came  around  he  threw  one  of 
the  mud  balls  at  her  and  hit  her,  as  he  had  been  told  to  do.  She  went 
around  the  pole  that  they  were  dancing  around  and  when  she  came  around 
again  he  threw  another  mud  ball  at  her  and  hit  her  again.  Every  time  she 
came  around  he  threw  at  her,  until  he  had  thrown  the  last  ball.  Then  she 
left  the  dance  and  went  off  to  her  home,  and  the  live  man  followed  her. ' ' 

In  the  story  of  **The  Daughter  of  the  Sun,"  in  the  present  re- 
viewer's Myths  of  the  Cherokee  in  the  19th  Report  of  the  Bureau  of  Eth- 
nology, 1902,  seven  messengers  set  out  for  the  Spirit  World  to  bring 
back  the  soul  of  the  daughter  of  the  Sun,  carrying  with  them  seven 
magic  rods:  **  They  took  the  rods  and  a  large  box  and  traveled  seven 
days  to  the  west  until  they  came  to  the  Darkening  Land.  There  were  a 
great  many  people  there,  and  they  were  having  a  dance  just  as  if  they 
were  at  home  in  the  settlement.  The  young  woman  was  in  the  outside 
circle,  and  as  she  sw^ung  around  to  where  the  seven  men  were  standing, 
one  struck  her  with  his  rod  and  she  turned  her  head  and  saw  him.  As  she 
came  around  the  second  time  another  touched  her  with  his  rod,  and  then 
another  and  another,  until  at  the  seventh  round  she  fell  out  of  the  ring, 
and  they  put  her  into  the  box  and  closed  the  lid  fast." 

Several  songs  are  given  with  musical  notation  by  Mr  Frederic  R. 
Burton.     The   last   thirty-five   pages  are   devoted   to   abstracts  of  the 


126  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

myths,  thus  afTording  convenient  basis  for  comparison.  The  language 
throughout  is  simple  and  in  accord  with  Indian  expression,  and  each  In- 
dian assistant  is  given  full  credit. 

With  so  much  that  is  good  it  is  regrettable  that  we  have  not  more, 
particularly  in  the  way  of  notes  and  glossary.  It  has  been  well  said  that 
the  purpose  of  a  museum  is  to  illustrate  a  series  of  labels.  In  a  similar 
manner  a  main  purpose  of  a  myth  collection  is  to  illustrate  custom,  ritual, 
and  language.  Almost  every  one  of  these  myths  contains  reference  to 
some  custom  or  ceremony  of  which  the  layman  would  wish  to  know  more, 
while  an  analytic  vocabulary  of  the  Indian  terms  would  give  a  deeper 
meaning  to  the  myths  themselves  and  add  a  philologic  value  to  this  revela- 
tion of  a  most  interesting  people.  James  Moonev. 

Vier  Lustspiek  (^Der  franzosisch-preussische  Krieg — Ich  gratuliere  ;  — 
Grosse  Wahl  schafft  grosse  Qua  I — £in  Liebesbrief),  Von  Kosta 
Trifkovic.  Ubersetzt  und  fiir  die  deutsche  Buhne  bearbeitet  von 
Dr  Friedrich  S.  Krauss.  (Bibliothek  ansgewahlter  serbischer 
Meisterwerke,  Band  IV).  Leipzig:  Deutsche  Verlagsaktien  Gesell- 
schaft.     1904.     i2°,xvi,  182  pages. 

In  the  fourth  volume  of  the  Library  of  Servian  Masterworks,  which 
Dr  Krauss  is  now  editing,  he  introduces  us  to  another  talented  young 
author  who,  although  prematurely  cut  off  just  when  life  was  most  full  of 
promise,  has  left  such  impress  upon  the  literature  of  his  people  that  his 
dramas  are  still  the  favorites  of  the  Servian  stage  thirty  years  after  his 
death. 

Kosta  Trifkovic  was  bom  of  Servian  parents  at  Neusatz,  southern 
Hungary,  in  1843,  and  after  the  usual  school  period  and  a  short  experi- 
ence in  seafaring  life,  he  betook  himself  to  law  and  literature  while  hold- 
ing a  small  governmental  clerkship  at  Budapest.  His  literary  efforts 
were  directed  chiefly  to  the  building  up  of  a  national  Servian  stage  at 
Neusatz  to  rival  that  of  Belgrade.  With  capacity  for  doing  two  years' 
work  in  one,  and  an  equipment  of  five  languages,  he  worked  untiringly 
until  stricken  by  a  fever  which  finally  resulted  in  his  untimely  death  in 
1875  at  the  age  of  thirty-two.  In  four  short  years  of  production  he  had 
brought  out  seven  original  dramas,  arranged  ten  others  from  the  German 
and  French,  and  written  two  important  works  of  fiction  and  an  autobio- 
graphy, besides  critiques  and  numerous  shorter  articles  which  were  pub- 
lished in  a  journal  which  he  had  founded. 

The  four  specimen  comedies  are  filled  with  sparkling  wit  and  catchy 
verses,  and  a  succession  of  bewilderingly  comic  situations  which  finally 


BOOK  REVIEWS  12/ 

disentangle  themselves^  so  that  all  ends  well  at  last,  as  a  good  story 
should.  There  are  frequent  appeals  to  Servian  patriotism,  and  reference 
to  several  interesting  national  customs  such  as  the  New  Year  celebration 
and  the  betrothal  feast.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  translator  may  suc- 
ceed in  his  efforts  to  bring  such  excellent  work  to  a  wider  circle  of  acquain- 
tance. James  Mooney. 

Anthropophyteia  :  Jahrbucher  fur  Folkloristische  Erhebungen  und  For- 
schungen  zur  Eniwicklungsgeschichte  der  geschlechtUchen  Moral. 
[Yearbooks  for  Folklore  Collections  and  Investigations  relating  to  the 
Historical  Development  of  the  Sexual  Code.]  Herausgegeben  von 
Dr  Friedrich  S.  Krauss.  Band  I.  Sudslavische  Volksiiberlieferung- 
en,  die  sich  auf  den  Geschlechtsverkehr  beziehen.  I.  Erzahlungen, 
gesammelt,  verdeutscht  und  erlautert  von  Dr  Friedrich  S.  Krauss. 
Leipzig:  Deutsche Aktien-Gesellschafl.    1904.     8°,  xxii,  530  pages. 

This  remarkable  production  of  the  distinguished  South  Slavic  ethnolo- 
gist is  the  first  volume  of  an  investigation  of  the  sexual  folklore  of  the 
Balkan  provinces,  of  which  a  preliminary  publication  appeared  in  Kryptadia 
(Paris)  some  years  ago.  The  volume  is  dedicated  to  Dr  Franz  Boas  of 
New  York,  who,  in  a  brief  introductory  letter,  points  out  the  importance, 
to  the  student  of  European  anthropology,  of  a  knowledge  of  present  con- 
ditions, as  well  as  of  vanished  and  vanishing  customs. 

The  work,  which  is  printed  in  numbered  copies  for  the  use  of  students 
only,  embodies  the  result  of  a  patient  investigation  of  an  important  but 
peculiarly  difficult  and  ungrateful  subject  along  the  border-line  between 
primitive  anthropology  and  modem  civilization.  From  the  nature  of  the 
subject  it  is  impossible  to  go  into  detail,  but  it  may  be  said  briefly  that 
every  phase  receives  careful  attention,  from  remains  of  ancient  phallicism 
to  the  popular  proverb.  Special  topics  treated  in  this  connection  are 
supernatural  conception,  personal  and  place  names,  sexual  teaching, 
betrothal  and  marriage  customs,  sexual  hospitality,  the  jus  prima  noctis, 
erotic  tattooing,  perversions,  and  modem  prostitution.  Most  of  the  ma- 
terial is  given  in  the  form  of  short  narrative  descriptions  in  the  various 
Slavic  provincial  dialects,  with  German  translation  and  notes. 

There  is  one  curious  Bosnian  myth  of  a  woman  who  becomes  pregnant 
and  a  mother  from  having  eaten  the  unconsumed  heart  of  a  sinner  whose 
body  had  been  given  to  the  flames.  As  the  manifold  sins  have  been 
burned  away  with  the  body,  leaving  the  heart  in  its  original  purity,  the 
child  grows  up  to  be  a  saint.  The  primitive  idea  of  the  sun  or  moon  as 
the  fertilizer  siu^ives  in  the  belief  that  a  young  woman  may  become  preg- 


128  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

nant  by  sleeping  naked  under  the  light  of  the  full  moon  or  by  walking 
naked  at  noon  of  a  sunny  day  through  a  field  of  growing  grain.  The 
children  of  such  conception  can  see  spirits.  The  right  of  the  first  night 
is  still  but  a  thing  of  yesterday,  particularly  in  the  provinces  most  recendy 
emancipated  from  Turkish  misrule,  and  was  even  made  a  claim  by  the 
landed  proprietor  upon  his  impoverished  debtor,  while  the  essentially 
primitive  custom  of  sexual  hospitality  seems  hardly  yet  to  be  obsolete  in 
the  Balkan  provinces. 

The  deep  pervading  bestiality  of  thought  and  act  made  manifest  in 
these  relations  is  certainly  without  parallel  in  any  other  civilized  country. 
It  must  be  remembered  that  the  book  does  not  deal  with  the  aberrant  im- 
pulse of  a  decadent  aristocracy,  a  degenerate  city  slum  community,  or  of 
a  miscellaneous  gathering  of  the  refuse  of  the  earth  at  some  shipping  port 
or  remote  frontier  outpost.  It  deals  with  the  everyday  things  of  a  whole 
population  made  up  almost  entirely  of  farmers  and  herdsmen  remote  from 
large  cities  and  their  temptations.  Moreover,  the  author  expressly  states 
that  he  is  not  laying  bare  secret  filthiness,  such  as  exists  to  some  extent 
in  every  large  community,  but  is  putting  on  record  * '  only  what  the  peo- 
ple are  accustomed  to  relate  in  full  publicity  and  usually  also  without 
concern  in  the  presence  of  children,  young  girls,  and  women. ' ' 

We  cannot  regard  all  that  is  here  simply  as  a  part  of  an  arrested 
primitive  development,  and  we  have  too  much  faith  in  our  own  stock  to 
believe  that  all  of  it  is  properly  European.  Much  of  it  appears  to  be  due 
to  actual  racial  degeneration,  the  result  of  the  steady  brutalization  of 
centuries  of  subjection  to  an  Asiatic  barbarism  which  makes  the  harem, 
the  eunuch,  and  the  mute  the  cornerstones  of  its  social  system.  Indeed, 
some  of  the  customs  noted  are  directly  stated  to  be  an  inheritance  from  such 
Moslem  warfare  as  the  Kurds  are  still  inflicting  on  the  Christian  provinces 
of  Asia,  while  others  were  enforced  at  the  demand  of  local  Turkish 
officials.  The  question  is  of  practical  interest  in  view  of  the  fact  that  of 
more  than  800,000  immigrants  now  arriving  annually  in  the  United 
States  a  large  and  increasing  percentage  is  from  southwestern  Europe, 
and  the  supply  area,  which  in  1882  centered  at  Paris,  in  1902  had  its 
center  at  Constantinople. 

The  work  has  a  distinct  philologic  value  as  a  repository  of  the  dia- 
lectic forms  of  Servia,  Croatia,  Slavonia,  Bosnia,  Herzegovina,  and  neigh- 
boring provinces.  Among  the  well-known  collaborators  whose  names 
appear  on  the  title-page  are  Dr  Thomas  Achelis,  Bremen  ;  Dr  Iwan  Bloch, 
Berlin  ;  Dr  Franz  Boas,  New  York ;  Dr  Anton  Hermann,  Budapest ;  Dr 
Bemhard  Herrmann  Obst,  Leipzig ;  Dr  Giuseppe  Pitr^,  Palermo  ;  Dr  Isak 
Robinsohn,  Vienna.  James  Mooney. 


BOOK  RE  VIE  WS  1 29 

Beitrdge  zur  Lehre  von  den  GeschUchis-Unterschieden,  Von  Dr  P.  J. 
MObius  in  Leipzig.  Heft  i.  Geschiecht  und  Krankheit,  Pp.  39. 
Heft.  II.  Geschiecht  und  Entartung.  Pp.45.  Hefte  iii-iv.  Ueber 
die  Wirkungen  der  Castration,  Heft  v.  Geschiecht  und  Kopfgrbsse, 
Pp.  47  ( 5  figs.).  Heft  VI.  Goethe  und  die  Geschlechter.  Pp.  30. 
Hefte  vii-viii.      Geschlechte  und Kinderliebe,     Pp.  72  (35  figs.). 

As  the  title  indicates,  M6bius*s  treatment  of  the  subject  of  sex-differ- 
ence covers  a  rather  wide  range,  not  all  of  which  is  of  decided  interest  to 
the  anthropologist.  The  general  conclusions  of  his  study  of  ''sex  and 
disease, ' '  arc,  that  men  sicken  and  die  through  their  own  acts  oftener  than 
women,  the  chief  causes  of  their  greater  mortality  being  the  use  of  alcohol 
and  venereal  diseases,  and  that  there  exists  no  reasonable  ground  for  as- 
cribing to  woman  a  longevity  or  resistance  to  disease  that  is  sui  generis. 
The  ** innate  longevity  in  woman  is  a  superstition.**  Fewer  suicides 
occur  among  women  because  they  lack  initiative  more.  If  it  were  not 
for  alcohol  and  venereal  diseases  men  would  have  less  sickness  and  live 
longer  than  women.  For  man  the  slow-killing  diseases  are  more  fatal 
than  the  plagues  so  feared  by  the  folk-mind. 

A  distinguished  American  psychologist  once  observed  that  he  might 
not  wish  to  be  **  sane  according  to  Lombroso,**  and  for  a  woman  to  be 
healthy  according  to  Mobius  might  lie  as  far  from  rational  human  desire. 
His  eye  filled  with  the  Vollmensch  (here  belongs  the  happy  European), 
he  recks  not  of  **  primitive  peoples**  and  the  like  whose  study  **adds 
nothing  to  our  knowledge  of  human  evolution.'*  For  Mobius  man  is 
nothing  if  not  absolutely  and  entirely  man,  and  no  woman  is  healthy  if 
sex  is  not  the  unvarying  center  of  her  being.  In  his  discussion  of  **  sex 
and  degeneration  **  he  treats  the  physical  and  mental  aberrancies  of  sex. 
Man  loses,  he  thinks,  in  every  way  by  becoming  like  a  woman,  while 
woman,  apparently,  may  gain  something  by  being  more  like  a  man.  The 
causes  of  sexual  degeneration  are  chiefly  bad  heredity  and  alcoholism  — 
the  former  preserves,  the  latter  increases  the  evil. 

In  his  monograph  on  **  Castration,**  after  giving  a  historical  sketch 
of  the  subject,  Mobius  discusses  the  physical  and  intellectual  effects  of  this 
form  of  bodily  mutilation  on  the  human  organism.  The  origin  of  castra- 
tion Mobius,  with  Bergmann,  sees  in  the  custom  of  marking  captives,  who 
were  not  killed  in  war  or  battle,  as  slaves  by  depriving  them  of  their 
membrum  virile.  Observations  of  castrated  men  led  afterward  to  similar 
treatment  of  animals,  tame  or  in  captivity.  Very  early  a  religious  signifi- 
cance attaching  to  the  sacrifice  of  the  organ  in  question  made  castration 
common  alike  with  priest  and  with  victim.     Castration  for  the  purpose 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  7—9 


I30  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

of  making  singers  is  the  latest  of  the  series.  The  eunuchs  of  the  Sultan 
explain  themselves.  The  general  effect  of  castration  in  youth  is  to  arrest 
the  development  of  the  secondary  sexual  characters.  Popularly  speaking, 
''a  man  becomes  more  like  a  woman/'  but  really  what  happens  is  that 
he  ceases  to  be  more  like  a  man.  To  this  essay  a  bibliography  of  53 
titles  is  appended. 

The  general  thesis  of  M6bius*s  study  of  **sex  and  size  of  head**  is 
that  **the  circumference  of  the  head  approximately  normal  in  form  in- 
creases in  general  with  the  intellectual  powers.**  His  investigation  of 
the  heads  of  distinguished  men  is  based  on  the  records,  600  in  number, 
of  Haugk,  the  hatter,  made  with  the  conformafeury  —  of  women  only  50 
were  measured.  At  pages  26-39  ^^  measurements  of  360  more  or  less 
distinguished  men  are  given,  from  which  it  appears  that  almost  all  distin* 
guished  men  are  short-headed  (brachycephalic), —  so,  too,  with  women. 
MObius  holds  that  the  relation  between  brain  and  body  is  not  the  same  in 
the  two  sexes,  for  ''a  normal  man,  even  when  he  is  small,  requires  at 
least  a  head  of  53  cm.  circumference,  while  a  woman  gets  along  quite 
well  with  51  cm.,'* — in  other  words,  one  may  be  a  clever  woman  with 
5 1  cm. ,  but  not  a  clever  man.  The  thing  lies  in  the  brain  that  makes 
the  difference.  Sexual  as  well  as  racial  differences  of  head  go  back  to 
intellectual  differences. 

Mobius*s  discussion  of  **  Goethe  and  the  sexes  **  is  devoted  to  a  con- 
sideration of  the  great  German's  sayings,  ^^  Das  Ewig-Weibliche  zieht 
tins  htnan;^'  *^  £s  ist  ungiaubiich,  wie  der  Umgang  der  IVeiber  herab- 
zieht,  *  *  From  an  examination  of  his  declarations  in  prose  and  verse  he 
comes  to  the  conclusion  that  the  real  position  of  Goethe  was  about  mid- 
way between  the  two  expressions  quoted.  It  is  rather  the  **  Ewig- 
WeiblicJuy'*^  than  the  Weibliche  that  leads  us  on,  the  ideal  woman,  not  the 
real  one.  The  famous  conclusion  of  Faust,  Mobius  thinks,  can  be  inter- 
preted only  in  light  of  the  fact  that  Goethe  was  old  and  writing 
with  tender  recollections  of  youth.  In  his  completer  manhood  he  would 
have  selected  some  other  ideal.  At  this  point  one  feels  that  he  would 
like  to  hear  Goethe  demolish,  as  doubtless  he  could  and  would,  such 
arguments. 

His  monograph  on  **  Sex  and  love  of  children  **  exhibits  Mobius  in 
his  role  of  resurrector  of  Gall,  the  phrenologist,  whose  organ  of  **  philo- 
progenitiveness '  *  he  seeks  to  make  function  again.  In  three  sections  he 
considers  love  of  offspring  among  animals  and  men,  GalFs  doctrine,  and 
skull  and  love  of  children.  For  Mobius  love  of  offspring  is  an  innate 
instinct  deeply  rooted  in  the  organism,  and  he  argues  for  the  location  of 


BOOK  RE  VIE  IVS  1 3  I 

"the  organ  of  love  of  offspring/'  near  the  ** organ  of  sex-instinct,"  in 
the  upper  part  of  the  occipital  bone,  corresponding  to  a  special  part  of 
the' brain.  The  strong  development  of  this  ** organ*'  (it  is  marked  in 
women)  indicates  love  of  offspring.  With  civilization,  according  to 
Mobius,  comes  a  certain  dulling  of  sex-differences  and  man  takes  on  even 
some  female  traits.  Thus  it  happens,  perhaps,  that  there  are  so  many 
men  to-day  with  a  large  organ  of  love  of  offspring, —  women  with  heads 
of  the  male  type  are  less  common. 

While  interesting,  and  representing,  doubtless,  a  certain  tendency  of 
the  present  Teutonic  mind,  these  views  of  sex-problems  are  fortunately  not 
axioms  of  science.  Alexander  F.  Chamberlain. 

Album  of  Philippine  Types;  Christians  and  Moros,  By  Daniel  Folk- 
MAR.  Prepared  and  Published  under  the  Auspices  of  the  Philippine 
Exposition  Board.  Manila:  1904.  Oblong  4®,  80  plates  with 
introductory  text. 

The  subjects  for  Dr  Yc^voax^  %  Album  of  Philippine  Types  were  prison- 
ers in  Bilibid  prison  in  the  year  1903.  It  is  unfortunate  to  base  an 
anthropological  study  on  prison  subjects  unless  it  be  absolutely  necessary. 
Prison  cases  should  everywhere  be  exceptional  and  aberrant  types,  in  no 
true  sense  representative  of  their  race.  It  may  indeed  be  that  many  of 
the  prisoners  now  held  in  the  Philippines  are  political  prisoners  and  not 
degenerate  and  abnormal  to  the  degree  that  most  criminals  would  be. 
But  it  ought  not  to  be  difficult  to  conduct  a  study  like  Dr  Folkmar's  in  vil- 
lages where  an  unselected  group  might  be  studied  and  the  normal  type 
secured. 

This  preliminary  criticism  made,  we  turn  to  the  examination  of  Dr 
Folkmar*s  Album.  Front  and  side  views  of  each  subject  are  presented, 
made  to  a  uniform  scale,  measures  being  one-half  the  actual.  Opposite 
the  portraits  are  printed  the  anthropometric  data  regarding  the  subject 
represented  —  eight  measures  and  two  indices  being  given.  In  the  same 
table  are  presented  averages  of  these  measures  and  indices  as  taken  on  a 
number  of  individuals  from  the  same  tribe  as  the  subject,  who  was,  in 
each  case,  chosen  as  approximating  the  average.  The  portraits  thus 
represent  the  average  of  the  prison  representation  of  their  tribal  groups. 
Unfortunately  there  are  errors  in  these  figures  as  given,  and  apparently 
many.  Opening  at  hazard,  plate  11  represents  a  Cagayan  with  chest 
measure  of  .895  m.  The  average  of  5  Cagayans  was  .864  ;  of  15  from 
all  provinces  .856.  One  can  hardly  believe  an  average  subject  to  be  so 
far  from  these  averages  and  guesses  that  .859  m.  was  intended.     It  is 


1 12  ajizi.:7a::  aj^t^jl  c-^z-l  :  J.vr  "iw  i.  •- 1^ 


AC/ 


N't£7:*-:>  ra^tr-il  2Ti:li.LC*  '■•25  1:^3  sznill.     N:r  -"la  ft,  xs  ici3*3.  rr 


Can:':>r:Ci't :   Uziverrin-  Press.      i9ai>.     Lirre  S*.  xi:.  375  r&£fe&  2i 

m 

Th*  Eip/ecitfoa  from  Can^brldge  UniversiiT  id  TjrT«  sraiis  »tb.  per- 
ha;/:,  tJit  IpCT.  t.uippcd  for  work  of  a::y  ethnoer^p hie 
znact.  U^dtrr  tie  leadership  of  Dr  Alfred  C.  Hicc^::,  :bc  p* 
cJ-dtd  also  Dr  Rivers  aad  Messrs  Rav,  SeligrraTi,  and  Wiikis.  Eadi 
worker  was  assigned  bis  parti oilar  porrion  of  the  izivescigaxioQ.  Dr 
HaddoQ  had  already  been  in  the  region  to  be  explored,  srjdying  the 
marine  iajca.  in  i8S3  and  1SS9.  The  r*2nT  spent  nve  weeks  in  the 
Western  islands,  to  which  the  volisne  before  t3  is  connned.  in  1S9S. 
Tlie  region  is  of  particular  interest  25  it  is  the  frontier  between  the  Papuan 
and  A''J5tra]:an  culture  areas,  aitho'Jgh  the  islanders  were  found  to  be  dis- 
tinalv  Pai/Lian. 

The  Reports  of  the  Exj^edition  are  to  form  six  volumes,  as  follows: 

I,  Physical  AnthrojX)log>' ;  II.  Physiology  and  Psychology  :  III,  Lin- 
guistics ;  IV,  Technology- ;  V,  Sociology,  Magic,  and  Religion  of  the 
Western  Islanders ;  VI,  Socio!og>',  Magic,  and  Religion  of  the  Eastern 
Islanders.     All  that  has  so  far  been  published  are  two  parts  of  Volume 

II,  presenting  investigations  on  sense  phenomena  of  these  natives,  and 
Volume  V,  which  lies  before  us.  The  other  volumes  are  in  prepazaticm 
and  will  be  duly  published.  Each  of  the  workers  has  prepared  his  own 
reports  and  the  volume  in  hand  contains  contributions  from  all  but  Mr  Ray 
whose  work  was  purely  linguistic.  In  gathering  material  in  the  Western 
islands,  most  time  and  attention  was  given  to  the  island  of  Mabuiag,  which 
may  be  considered  typical.  These  islanders  have  been  for  thirty  years 
under  missionary  influence  and  have  been  affected  by  it  and  by  other  forms 
of  contact  with  white  men,  but  still  retain  much  of  their  native  culture  and 
have  yielded  a  rich  har\est  of  interesting  data.  Much  in  the  volume 
deserves  notice,  but  we  can  refer  to  but  a  few  points. 


BOOK  REVIEWS  I33 

Almost  a  third  of  the  book  is  devoted  to  Folk  Tales,  which  have 
been  treated  and  presented  by  Dr  Haddon  himself.  They  are  classified 
as  nature  myths,  culture  myths,  totem  myths,  spirit  myths,  dogai  tales, 
narratives  about  people,  comic  tales.  A  dogai  is  an  uncanny  and  mali- 
cious, but  stupid,  human  monster,  of  ogreish  instincts.  The  collection 
includes  forty-six  stories.  These  were  told  to  Dr  Haddon  in  broken 
English  and  he  assures  us  that  he  gives  them  as  they  were  received.  He 
does  so  literally  in  some  cases,  and  reading  these  versions  raises  the  ques- 
tion as  to  how  far  scientific  accuracy  demands  such  presentation.  Is  it 
desirable  to  present  such  a  story  in  broken  English,  if  it  can  be  told  in 
good  English  without  falsely  rendering  the  native  teller's  thought  and 
intent?  If  the  recorder  really  knoivs  the  native's  meaning  and  catches 
his  spirit,  it  is  unfair  to  the  narrator  and  to  the  genius  of  his  race  to  spoil 
his  performance  by  too  literal  a  presentation  of  his  imperfect  medium  of 
expression.  When  we  listen  to  a  great  French  or  German  scholar  giv- 
ing a  lecture  in  English,  we  take  his  thought  and  meaning,  not  his  bad 
pronunciation  and  halting  grammar.  A  reporter  of  such  a  lecture,  if  he 
really  understands  its  argument  and  matter,  aims  to  present  these,  not 
the  dialect.  Of  course,  the  jargon  of  the  native  tale  may  have  linguistic 
importance  and  psychologic  value ;  as  material  for  study  samples  may 
have  their  reason.  Dr  Haddon  fortunately  does  not  give  all  his  stories 
in  "  Pigeon-English.**  The  question  may  be  raised,  whether  even  those 
he  does  give  in  true  English  form  do  not  deserve  a  finer  rendering.  If 
not,  it  must  be  confessed  that  the  tales  are,  on  the  whole,  poor,  vague, 
and  meager;  not  in  keeping  with  the  artistic  development  shown  in 
the  manufactures,  nor  with  the  intellectual  power  indicated  by  the  gene- 
alogies of  this  people.  Dr  Haddon  not  only  presents  the  stories  them- 
selves, but  makes  them  yield  their  utmost  to  the  student  by  giving  the 
carefully  condensed  plot  of  each  and  a  statement  of  the  anthropological 
incidents  which  each  contains.  It  is  unnecessary  to  say  that  this  work 
is  done  carefully  and  conscientiously  and  that  it  adds  largely  to  the  value 
of  the  collection. 

The  chapters  by  Dr  Rivers  on  Genealogies,  Kinship,  Personal  Names, 
etc. ,  are  of  particular  importance.  These  matters  were  investigated  with 
great  care  and  throw  much  light  on  the  social  organization.  The  kinship 
system  in  use  among  the  Western  islanders  **  is  a  definite  example  of  the 
classificatory  system,"  showing  all  of  Morgan's  ten  indicative  features. 
There  is,  however,  a  clear  tendency  to  break  down  in  some  directions. 
Dr  Rivers  introduces  an  elaborate  system  of  tabulating  the  genealogical 
data,  and  his  tables  require  close  examination  and  some  study.     Once 


i 


134  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

mastered,  however,  Ihey  clearly  show  the  native  i-iew  of  kin.  These 
Torres  Straits  islanders  possess  remarkable  memory  for  genealogical  detail 
and  analogous  to  that  shown  by  Polynesians. 

In  the  chapters  by  Mr  Seligman  on  Birth  and  Childhood  Customs  and 
Women's  Puberty  Customs,  is  a  clear  and  excellent  statement  regarding 
matters  which  are  too  often  neglected  or  but  inadequately  touched  by 
travelers  and  students. 

The  mass  of  material  on  Initiation,  Courtship  and  Marriage,  Funeral 
Ceremonies,  Magic,  Religion,  etc.,  is  large  and  interesting  but  can  be 
mentioned  only  cursorily.  This  has  been  worked  out  chiefly  by  Dr 
Haddon,  with  the  aid  of  Mr  A.  Wilkin,  whose  recent  death  is  announced 
in  the  volume.  Many  interesting  customs  are  described.  Thus,  in  court- 
ship and  marriage  —  the  woman  proposes,  sending  an  arm-band  to  her 
lover;  he  returns  a  leg-ring,  meets  her  in  the  bush,  and  sleeps  at  her 
house ;  often,  her  relatives  battle  over  her.  Very  interesting  is  the 
custom  of  divining  vA'Ccl  skulls,  usually  those  of  relatives.  The  skulls 
were  carefully  prepared  by  cleaning,  painting,  and  enclosing  in  a  basketry 
casing  decorated  with  feathers  and  the  ornaments  of  the  deceased.  When 
such  a  skull  was  to  be  consulted,  it  was  cleaned,  repainted,  and  anointed 
with  or  placed  upon  aromatic  plants.  Before  going  to  sleep  the  inquirer 
urged  the  skull  to  tell  the  truth  and  then  placed  it  by  his  pillow.  The 
skull  spoke  to  the  sleeper,  the  noise  made  being  like  the  chattering  of 
teeth  together.  But  further  reference  to  the  interesting  ethnographic 
details  of  the  volume  is  impossible.  The  work  is  a  storehouse  of  new 
information  regarding  a  little-known  people  and,  after  reading  it,  one 
can  well  understand  the  urgency  of  Dr  Haddon' s  appeal  in  view  of  the 
"  vanishing  of  anthropological  data. ' '  Now  is  the  time  for  such  work  as 
that  of  the  Cambridge  Expedition.  The  harvest  waits.  Soon  it  will  be 
lost  if  there  are  not  reapers  and  gleaners.  The  volume  before  us  is  illus- 
trated with  t\^'enty-two  full  page  plates  and  with  native  drawings  and  maps 
in  the  text.  Frederick  Starr. 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


G)NDUCTED   BY    Dr   ALEXANDER    F.    CHAMBERLAIN 

[Note. — Authors,  especially  those  whose  articles  appear  in  journals  and  other 
serials  not  entirely  devoted  to  anthropology,  will  greatly  aid  this  department  of  the 
American  Anthropologist  by  sending  direct  to  Dr  A.  F.  Chamberlain,  Clark  University, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts,  U.  S.  A.,  reprints  or  copies  of  such  studies  as  they  may  desire 
to  have  noticed  in  these  pages.  —  Editor.] 


GENERAL 

Adachi  (B.)  Die  Porositflt  des  Sch&del- 
daches.  (Z.  f.  Morph.  u.  Anthr.,  Ber- 
lin, 1904,  VII,  373-378,  2  pi.)  De- 
scribes two  cases  of  extreme  porosity  of 
the  vault  of  the  cranium  (Dyak,  Egyp- 
tian),—  such  porosity  does  not  occur  in 
European  skulls. 

Anthropology  at  the  St.  Louis  Exposition. 
(Amer.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1904,  xxvi, 
II 6- 1 20,  I  fig.)  Notes  on  Patagonian 
giants,  aboriginal  groups,  section  of 
archeology,  etc. 

Atgier  (M. )  Ibdres  et  Berbdres  :  origine 
et  significations  diverses  de  ces  expres- 
sions ethniques.  (Bull.  See.  d' Anthr. 
de  Paris,  1904,  v<  s.,  V,  iio-iii.)  Dr 
A.  argues  that  in  the  Kabylian  iberik^ 
**  the  blacks,"  lies  the  orgin  of  the  Latin 
/deri  and  its  cognates  and  descendants. 
From  the  same  root  by  reduplication 
came  Berber^  etc.  Black  hair,  not  skin, 
is  connoted. 

Bardeen  (C.  R. )  Numerical  vertebral 
variation  in  the  human  adult  and  embryo. 
( Anat.  Anz.,  Jena,  1904,  xxv,  497-519. ) 
Risum^s  data.  Author  recognizes  in 
development  of  spinal  column  and  ap- 
pendages 4  periods  (pre-pelvic,  chondro- 
ficative,  ossificative,  —  prenatal,  post- 
natal,—  adult V  B.  concludes  among 
other  things  that  *' regional  variation  in 
the  vertebral  column  is  an  inherited  con- 
dition, manifesting  itself  early  in  em- 
bryonic development. ' '  Variation  seems 
to  be  greater  in  females  than  in  males, 
and  in  Baltimore  negroes  than  in  whites 
as  to  number  of  presacral  vertebrae.  The 
tendency  toward  reduction  and  increase 
in  the  number  of  presacral  vertebne  seems 
equal.  The  article  has  abundant  statistics 
and  a  bibliography  of  46  titles. 


Bloch  (A.)  Des  variations  de  longueur 
de  Tintestin.  (Bull.  Soc.  d'  Anthr.  de 
Paris,  1904,  v«  s.,  V,  160-197.)  R6- 
sumds  knowledge  of  the  length  of  the 
intestines  in  the  animals  and  man  (pp. 
1 77-195 ) .  The  effects  of  disease,  obesity, 
race,  etc.,  are  discussed.  The  intestine 
of  the  child  is  relatively  longer  than  that 
of  the  adult.  The  variability  of  the  adult 
intestine  is  due  to  the  fact  that  its  length 
is  sometimes  congenital  and  sometimes 
acquired  (often  as  a  result  of  disease, 
etc.,  or  obesity).  The  Japanese  (a  more 
or  less  herbivorous  race)  seem  to  possess 
the  longest  intestines.  As  to  sex-differ- 
ences the  authorities  are  not  in  agree- 
ment. 

et  Vigier  (P.)     Recherches  histolo- 


giques  sur  le  follicule  pileux  et  le  cheveu 
de  deux  ndgres  dic^d^s  a  Paris.  (Ibid., 
124-132,  5  fgs.)  Details  concerning 
the  pilose  follicle  and  hair  of  a  negro 
from  Loango  and  of  another  from  Accra 
in  Guinea.  The  notable  peculiarity  of 
the  negro's  follicle  is  the  oblique  semi- 
circular crest.  The  particular  form  and 
structure  of  the  pilose  follicle  are  not 
confined  to  the  negro,  —  the  Bushman 
has  them.  Whether  the  recurved  follicle 
is  found  in  the  negro  new -bom  child  is 
not  known. 

Buron  (E.  J.  P.)  L*abb6  Casgrain  (J. 
Soc.  Am^ric.  de  Paris,  1904,  N.  s.,  i, 
344-346. )  Sketch  of  life  and  activities 
of  the  distinguished  French  Canadian 
man  of  letters,  historian,  genealogist,  etc. 

Buschan  (G.)  Kultur  und  Gehim.  (A. 
f.  Rassen-  u.  Ges.-Biol.,  Berlin,  1904,  i, 
689-701.)  R^sum^s  briefly  studies  of 
Broca,  Schmidt,  Hunt,  Matiegka,  Mar- 
chand,  Spitzka,  Costa  Ferreira,  Galton 
and  Venn,  Vaschide  and  Pelletier,  Pfit- 


135 


■  36 

ner,  Barlels,  Papillaull,  etc.,  concem- 
iug  the  relations  of  siie  of  skull  nndbnin 
lo  progress  in  civitiiation  and  cultuie. 
I>r  G.  concludes  that  increase  of  brain- 
volume  and  increa^  of  culture  go 
together  and  brain  sinks  with  disappear- 
ing culture  (f.  g.,  ancient  and  modern 
Egyiitians).  Also  that  the  gift  of  rood- 
cm  culture  is  for  certain  primitive  peoples 
fatal  and  brain- killing. 

CmtuUi  (W.  H.)  Adolf  Baslian,  (Open 
O.,  Chicago,  1904,  xviii,  321-330.) 
Sketch  of  life  and  philosophy  with  list  of 
30  published  books  and  portrait.  To  Has- 
tian  belongs  ihe  credit  of  originating  the 
expression  I'oikfrgrtlantfn,  or  "  race 
thoughts"  as  it  has  been  translated, — 
the  mailer  of  primBry  inlerest  is  the 
ptimitiveman's  concept  bonofcheuDJTcrse. 

Cani*(P.)  The  ascent  of  man.  (Ibid., 
17S-190,  6  fgs.)  Discusses  "evolu- 
tion," Neanderthal  skull,  Ihe  Mitchell- 
Ward  restoration  of  Neanderthal  man, 
Gabriel  Max's  painting  of  the  Heme 
alitlui,  etc.  Dr  C.  accepts  Ihe  Newider- 
thal  skull  asof  primitive  man.  and  posits 
the  origin  of  mankind  in  the  north, 
where,  through  stress  of  environment, 
ape-men  developed  altruism  and  intelli- 
gencc. 

A  new  religion.    (Ibid.,  355-371. 

398-4M.  17  fgs.l  Treats  of  Babism, 
"  Ihe  ixiungest  faith  on  earth  "  and  its 
chief  eiponcnls.  Some  Ihink  it  may 
some  day  become  the  religion  of  Persia. 

Slone  worshi|i.   (Ibid.,  660-6S5,  33 

fgs.).  Treats  of  Ihe  roatschah,  jachin 
and  Ik»7.  the  malsebah  as  Itclhel 
(Jacob's  dream),  Gilead  ami  (tileal, 
obelisks,  the  destruction  of  mntsebahs  in 
Judea,  the  Itudurrus  of  ancient  Raliy- 
lonia.  Slonehenge  (a  place  of  sun- 
worshi]i),  the  Tibetan  pyramid  of  peace, 
the  runic  stone  of  C.oltorp  (Sleswick), 
menhirs  and  dolmens,  the  memorial 
stones  of  the  Khasi  (lixlia),  etc.  The 
stone  itself  is  not  worshipped,  but  is  a 
marker  for  Ihe  presence  of  <leily. 

How  history  is  transfigured  hymyth, 

(Ibid.,  690-694).  Shows  the  mixture 
of  ftcl  and  fancy  in  what  we  believe  to 
be  history.  Takes  the  op|K>site  view  to 
Mr  Shaw  (q.  v.). 

ChamberUin  (A.  K.  „nd  I.  C. ).  Studies 
ofachild,  II.  (Pedag.  Sem.,  Worcester, 
1904,  KT,  4Si-483, )  Treats  of  ngglu- 
dnktkw,  analogy,  caressive  repciiiions, 
definitioDS,    father      and 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


of  words,  parareduplici 
I       plural -forms.        Poetiy    and    rhythmic 
j       speech,  prefix,  preterile-forms,  redupli- 
!        cation,   reproduction  of  nursery -rhymes, 
I        spontaneous    language,   word -forms   dif- 
I       feting  slightly   (torn  ihe    adult,   wotd- 
I       groups,    words     "original"    or    "in- 
'        vented,"  words  pseudo- primitive  in  form, 
words  with  special  meanings,  etc.     Sec- 
ond article  of  the  authors'  dealing  with 
!       Ihe  psvcholc^cal   phenomena   of   their 
own  child. 

I   Child  study  and  related   topics  in 

recent  Italian  scientific  lileralure.  ( Ibid., 
S08-515).  Risumfis  articles,  etc.,  re- 
lating to  child-life,  craniology,  ctiminol- 
'  ogy,  fatigue,  feebleminded,  foot,  genius, 
giantism,  inbreeding,  Italia  "  baibara," 


jargon 


enul   I 


physical,   microcephaly,   race  and   indi- 
vidual, school -excursions,  stature. 

Child  study  and   related    topics   in 

recent     Rus^an     scientific     literature. 
j       {Ibid.,     516-530.)      R^sum^s    articles 
I        relating    lo    brain-conformation,    brain- 
cortex,    continuance    of    growth,    ear, 
eye-growth,    fertility,    giantism,    heart, 
heredity,    idiocy,    miceoccphaly,    preco- 
cious   development,    puberty,     seasonal 
'       growth,  slill-birlh,  suicide. 

Cse  and  domestication  of  the  horse. 


(A 


Am 


icapo; 


1904. 


164-167.)  Resumes  recent  articles  of 
Zaliorowski.  Ridgeway.  von  Negelein. 
Munro,  /a1>oTowski  and  von  Negelein  do 
not  belieie  ibe  horse  was  domesticated 
in  quaternary  limes,  —  the  horse  was 
first  used  for  food,  Ridgeway  thinks 
the  horse  was  driven  before  ridden,  and 
that  .\frica  was  the  home  of  the  "Arab 
steed." 
CODwrratioii  (  Lti)  des  nsdansles  tombes. 
(Bull.  Soc.  d'.\nthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v, 
s.,  V,  99-100,^  In  opposition  to  Man- 
ouvrier.  M.  Emile  Kiviire  argued  that 
water  and  humidity  are  not  prime  de- 
structive agents  of  osseous  remains.  Dr 
Kaudouin  took  a  similar  view  and  sug- 
gested  expetimenls  in   the  siifiening  of 

Bijinnui  1 1'.  11. 1  ■Woiieres  iiber  das 
neue  graphische  Syj-iem  lur  die  Krani- 
ologie.  1  Hdlgn.  v.  d.  Nedcrl.  .\nthr. 
Ver.,  Den  ll.iag,  IQ04,  t,  S3-103,  10 
fgs. )  Treat.-  of  height  of  >kull.  raliotial 
modulus,  indfx-system,  nerei.-ity  of 
three-sided  si-stem,   racial   mixture   and 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


137 


crossiiig,  exactness,  group-division,  etc. 
The  graphic  system  can  be  used  to  com- 
pare with  each  other  different  methods 
of  measurement  £.  would  reject  the 
index-system  for  the  relative  mass-system 
developed  on  the  ideas  of  Schmidt. 

Brans  (H.  R.)  The  legendary  and  the 
real  Napoleon.  ( Open  Ct. ,  Chicago,  1 904, 
XVIII,  584-605,  8  fgs. )  Cites  legends 
produced  by  the  Egyptian  campaign, 
etc,  the  opinions  of  poets,  historians, 
novelists,  and  others  as  to  the  real  and  the 
legendary  Napoleon.  The  theosophists 
might  win  some  comfort  from  the  fact 
that  the  face  of  a  statue  of  Rameses  now 
in  the  Turin  Museum  and  the  face  of  Bar- 
telda,  a  young  Apache  Indian,  both 
strongly  resemble  in  profile  the  great 
Corsican.  There  is  also  a  rapprochement 
between  Napoleon  and  Alexander  the 
Great. 

Gfeller  ( S. )  Der  Schulgang  unseres  Her- 
ren  und  Hdlandes  Jesu  Christi.  ( Schw. 
Arch.  f.  Volksk.,  Ziirich,  1904,  vii, 
154-157.)  Gives  text  of  poem  (Bern, 
1563)  on  the  school-going  of  Jesus. 

HochBtetter  (  F. )  Ueber  die  Nichtexistenz 
der  sogenannten  Bogenfurchen  an  den 
Gehimen  lebensfrisch  konservierter 
menschlicher  Embryonen.  (Verb.  d. 
anat.  Ges.,  Jena,  1904,  27-34,  5  fgs.) 
Author  still  holds  to  the  post-mortem 
origin  of  these  "transitory**  furrows. 

Hutchinson  ( W.)  What  the  dog  is  built 
to  do.  (Open  Ct.,  Chicago,  1904,  xviii, 
577-583.)  Popular  discussion.  Dr  H. 
thinks  dog  the  earliest  domestic  animal, 
— **long  before  the  dawn  of  history  he 
had  become  our  companion  in  the  chase, 
then  the  most  important  occupation  of 
life,**  —  and  grants  him  a  ''  record  of  at 
least  10,000  years  of  continuous  service 
and  devotion  to  our  race.**  To  chase 
and  catch  were  long  his  chief  acts. 

Ksssel  (C. )  Androgynous  man  in  myth 
and  tradition.  (Ibid.,  525-530.)  Treats 
of  the  idea  of  "man- woman  "  in  Aryan 
myth,  Hebrew  Bible,  Plato's  Symposium^ 
the  words  of  Jesus,  facts  of  biology 
(Haeckel),  etc.  A  pre-sexual  andro- 
gynous condition  is  posited. 

Keibel  ( Hr, )  Zur  Entwickelungsgeschichte 
der  Affen.  (Verb.  d.  anat.  Ges.,  Jena, 
1904,  156-163.)  Describes  feti  (from 
material  of  Selenka  and  Hubrecht) 
Semnopitheci,  Hylobates,  Orang,  Ma- 
cacque,  etc.,  and  man.     There  is  a  strik- 


ing similarity  between  the  young  embryos 
of  the  various  monkeys  and  the  much 
more  developed  human  embryos.  The 
occurrence  of  a  schwanzfeder  in  the  long- 
tailed  monkeys  is  noteworthy.  The  im- 
portance of  slight  variations  and  even 
"arabesques  of  development**  for  phy- 
logeny  is  emphasized.  In  the  discussion 
G.  Retzius  showed  that  the  pads  in  the 
hands  and  feet  of  the  monkey  embryos 
were  less  developed  than  those  of  man, 
—  the  saying  of  K.  von  Bardeleben  is 
illustrated  here,  that  man  is  a  more 
primitive  monkey  than  the  monkeys 
themselves.** 

Kr&mer  (A.)  Der  Neubau  des  Berliner 
Museums  Hlr  Vdlkerkunde  im  Lichte  der 
ethnographischen  Forschung.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  21-24.)  Dr 
A.,  who  remarks  that  since  Goethe  no 
one  has  so  clearly  pointed  out  "the 
yellow  peril*'  as  the  present  Kaiser, 
proposes  to  make  the  Berlin  Museum 
solely  a  "Museum  for  Asiatic  Culture.** 
In  another  location  the  collections  relat- 
ing to  "primitive  peoples**  (American 
Indians,  Africans,  except  Mediterranean 
races,  people  of  Australasia  and  Poly- 
nesia, Indonesians,  etc.)  should  be  ac- 
comodated. This  limitation  to  Asiatic 
culture  had  been  previously  advocated  by 
O.  Milnsterberg. 

Lasch  (R.)  Wachstumszeremonien  der 
Naturv5lker  und  die  Entstehung  des 
Dramas.  (Ibid.,  137-138.)  Critical 
r6sum6  of  the  monograph  of  Preuss 
(see  American  Anthropologist,  1904,  N. 
s.,  VI,  359),  on  phallic  growth  demons, 
etc.  and  the  origin  of  the  mimus  and 
the  clown.  The  primitive  mime-drama 
is,  in  its  beginnings,  an  act  of  worship 
and  magic  and  is  intimately  connected 
with  religious  ideas  as  to  the  begetting  of 
the  natural  products  of  the  field. 

Lewis  (J.  F.)  "  Teigdrticke  "— prints 
in  paste.  (Proc.  Num.  &  Antiq.  Soc. 
of  Phila.,  1 902-1 903  [1904],  189-194, 
I  fg. )  Of  "paste-prints,"  made  by 
printing  the  design  from  the  plate  or 
block  with  paste  instead  of  ink,  only 
some  100  are  known  altogether.  They 
may  antedate  ink  printing  and  "belong 
to  the  very  dawn  of  the  art  of  engraving 
for  the  purpose  of  reproducing  designs.** 
They  were  made  in  Germany  (probably 
Bavaria)  before  1500,  possibly  before 
1450.  Teigdrticke  are  usually  found 
pasted  in  books. 


138 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


**  Schrotblftttcr  ;**  or,  prints  in  the 

*'  mmni^re  criblie/*  with  some  consider- 
ation of  ft  set  of  eight  such  prints  asso- 
ciated with  typographic  text.  (Ibid., 
I05-210,  9  pi. )  These  prints  are  so 
called  from  the  dots  of  the  design, 
suggesting  that  **  the  plate  from  which 
they  were  printed  had  been  gnawed  or 
indented,  or  pierced  through  like  a 
sieve. '  *  They  belong  among  the  earliest 
forms  of  engraving  for  reproducing  de- 
signs, and  their  chief  period  was  1470- 
1500.  Like  the  TeigdHicke^  they  are 
probably  of  Bavarian  origin. 

LoiMl  (G.)     Sur  Ernst  Haeckel.     (Bull. 
Soc  dWnthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  %•♦  s.,  v, 
197-199.)     Risumis  Ilaeckel's  ^M/iro- 
pogfnit  (5*  Aufl.,  Leipzig,  1903). 

lUcCurdy  ( G.  G. )  John  Wesley  Powell. 
(J.  Soc  Amine,  de  Paris,  1904,  N.  s., 
1,  339-344. )  Sketch  of  life  and  scien- 
tific activities  with  chronological  list  of 
pablicatioQS. 

MenM  (F.)  I^  simultaneity  des  d^con- 
veites  sdentitiques.  (Rev.  Scientif., 
Paris,  1904,  >-♦  s,.  II,  555-559-^  Con- 
tains a  list  of  simmlSQmtous  scientific  dis- 
coveries in  mathematics,  astroDomy,  me- 
chanics, physks.  diemistry,  biology, 
sociology.  These  simultaneous  discov- 
eries are  due  neither  to  accident  nor  to 
the  free  will  of  the  m«a  of  science,  but 
rather  K>  an  external  and  an  internal  de- 
terminism of  a  <aocial  character.  Everr 
moment  has  its  sdentitk  milieu  of  ideas, 
acts,  and  objects.  Contemporary  men  of 
genius  workii^  in  the  same  6eki  have,  as 
it  wei>f«  «*  a  common  soul  '*  and  a  com- 


£.)  Die  Voilk^imde  im  Rahmen 
der  Kvhiueui  •  k:k}nng  der  G<s|^warL 
(He».  BL  1  Volksk,,  Lespzii:,  1004, 
m,  I-15< )  Acon>dJz^  TO  tiw  asibar  the 
«l|^ect  cif  lbe«n6ca}  ioJkkire  is  :o  know 
-Id  01  die  Jalk  in  its  processes 
a 


mon  envuvnmenL  ' 

\WffSt  (A.  R)     Nene  Mitteilnngen  fiber   , 
Nephrii.      (Globus,   Bmsdiw^r.,    1904,    | 
LXXXA'l,  53-55. )     Discnfises  recent  ex- 
amples of  ^  occurrence  of  nephrite  in   i 
New  Guinea,  Australia,  Brazil,  Celebes., 
a»i  tbe    sdotbem  Tirol.  —  the  last    a 
votrre   axe    icNind    in    1903   at  Verro. 
Crade  nephrite  is  now  reported   mm 
se««ral  parts  of  New  Guinea,  AufSralxa, 
aaid  BnudL     Tbe  impoitation  thwvr  has 
reoenxlT  recciiYd    arrexml     odwr    hard 


ing  of  the  individual  phenomena,  and 
to  work  on  that  basis  is  the  most  im- 
portant task  of  practical  folklore.  The 
Beld  of  the  destructive  amateur  will  be 
narrowed  and  the  scientific  method  more 
and  more  employed.  As  a  science,  folk- 
lore belongs  with  the  culture-sciences. 
A  knowledge  of  the  folk-soul  is  neces- 
sary for  the  clergy,  the  teachers,  the 
statesmen.  M.  is  of  opinion  that  the 
estrangement  of  the  educated  classes  from 
the  vuigus  accounts  for  the  success  of 
the  propaganda  of  social  democracy  in 
Germany. 

Peareon  ( K. )  On  the  inheritance  of  the 
mental  and  moral  characters  in  man,  and 
its  comparison  with  the  inheritance  of 
the  ph}*sical  characters.  (J.  Anthr. 
Inst.,  Lond.,  1903,  xxxiii,  179-237.) 
In  this  article,  mainly  consisting  of  dia- 
grams and  statistics  resulting  fnnn  the 
study  of  the  brothers  and  sisters  in  looo 
fiunilies,  Dr  P.  treats  of  health,  color  of 
eyes  and  hair,  curliness  of  hair,  cephalic 
index,  head  length,  breadth  and  auricu- 
lar height,  athletic  power ;  vivacity,  as- 
sertiveness,  introspection,  popularity, 
conscientiousness,  temper,  ability,  hand- 
writing. The  number  of  school  boys 
examined  was  191$,  girls  2014.  Dr  P. 
concludes  that  **  the  degree  of  the  resem- 
blance of  the  physical  and  mental  diar- 
acters  in  children  is  one  and  the  same." 
This  sameness  involves  a  like  heritage 
from  parents,  and  * '  we  inherit  our 
parents*  tempers,  our  parents*  conscien- 
tiousness, shyness  and  ability,  even  as  we 
inherit  their  stature,  forearm  and  span.*' 
Intelligence  can  be  aided  and  be  trained, 
but  **  no  training  or  education  can  erf  of e 
iL*'  It  must  be  bred.  The  great  prob- 
lem is  to  make  the  best  families  and  stocks 
more  fertile  than  the  bad. 

^S.  D.)  The  tree  of  life  among  all 
nations.  (Am.  Antiq.,  Chicafro,  1 904, 
XXVI,  1-16,  7  i|:s.  \  General  discussion 
of  occurrence  of  these  symSc^is  in  Asia 
and  .Vmerica  ^  Majras  chieny  . 


—  Superstition  a  means  of  defense. 
I  Tbid.,  4S-5tv.  6  fp^  ^  Author  holds 
ibat  ••the  mas:  interesting  method  of 
defense  was  that  which  came  from  the 
cvmlunation  of  reli^poos  symbols  and 
mechanical  cocirix-anoesv."  as,  e.  g.,  a: 
Fl  Ancierii,  Ohio.  Tv>%em-pas:s  are 
another  example. 

—  Architecture    irs    the   proiii^istoric 
age.      t^lbid-,  N>-i04,   13^*     Treats 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


139 


of  Egypt,  Crete  ■nd  the  Meditcmuian  , 

UlBDds,  Ana   Minor,  etc.     Tbe  end  of  | 

the  prolohisCoric  period  ii  marked  b;  the  ' 
ttppe»i«nce  of  the  column  ;  it  began  with 

the  use  of  broQie.      The  rock-cut  tombs  I 

of  Phrygu  and  Lf  dia  ue  imitative  of  the  ' 

The  distribution  of  pile-dwellings.   | 

(Ibid.,  137-130,  4  fgs.)  Notes  of  a  | 
genera]  character  on  Swiss  lake-dwell-  i 
ings  and  those  of  the  Pacific  1 

Sttzlni  (G.)  Die  sog.  Taslballen  an 
den  Hlnden  uDd  FQssea  des  Menschcn. 
(Verh.d.  Anat.  Ges,,  Jena,  1904,41-43,  I 
3  fgs.)  Author  shows  that  the  pads,  ' 
well  developed  in  most  of  the  adult 
monkeys,  develop  in  the  man  during  the 
third  fetal  month,  and  then  from  the 
(butth  month,  "regress."  Accordingto 
Keibel  the  pads  are  also  present  in  mon- 
key-embryos. 

fiobin  (P.)  Substance  et  populations- 
(Bull.  Soc.  d'Aothr.  At  Paris.  1904,  v* 
s.,  V,  76-79.)  Author  holds,  with 
Gabriel  Giroud  in  his  Population  de  sub- 
listanctt  (Paris,  1904),  that  one-third  of  ' 
mankind  are  condemned  tot/v  of  hunger, 
and  nine-tentbs  have  their  end  fastened 
through  insufficient  food.  Hence,  the 
author  a^ues,  the  advocates  of ' '  parental 
prudence"  need  not  appear  as  mere 
suppliants.  In  the  discussion  M.  Le- 
jeune  pointed  out  some  of  the  fallacies  | 
in  such  arguments. 

Sduper  (A.)     Zur  Frage  der  EUisteni-  ,< 
berechtigung  der  BogenfurcheB  am  Ge- 
bime  menschlicher  Embryonen.     (Verb, 
d.  anat.  Ges.,  Jena,  1904,  35-37,  5  fgi)   . 
S.  produces  evidence  to  confirm  the  vit;*s 
of  Hochstetter  (q.  v. )  | 

ScbwubU   (R.)      L'alchimie   en    1904.   ' 
(Rev.  Scientir,   Paris,   1904,  5°  %.,  ll, 
396-398.)   Notes  on  modem  alchemists, 
their  claims  and   alleged  performances.    : 
There  are  those  who  pore  over  the  old  ' 
leits  and  the  so-called  "  unitary  chem-  1 
ists."    Likewise  those  stand  between  the  I 
two  like  the  Society  of  Alchemists  of 
France,  with  its  organ  Rosa  AUhcmiia. 
M.  SchwaebW  has  publidied  a  book  en-    ' 
titled  Commntlairis  alchimiquis. 

Shaw   (G.   W.)     Mythopceic    erudition.   ' 
(Open  Ct..  Chicago,    1904,  xviii,  687- 
689,  )      Author  argues  against  resolving 
the  stories  of  the  Trojan  war,  Samson, 
William   Tell,   etc.,   into   solar   myths.   , 
SeeGir»«(P.).  \ 


Stelzl  (G.)     Intomo  alia   struttura  dell' 

ipofisi  nei  verlebrati.  (A.  d,  Accad. 
Sci.  Ven, -Trent. -Isti.,  Padova,  1904, 
N.  s.,  I.,  70-141,  9fgs.)  Risumis  litera- 
ture of  subject,  —  bibliography  of  49 
titles.  Tbe  hypophysis  ctrtbri  ot  pitui- 
tary gland  is  interesting  by  reason  of  the 
so-called  cbromophile  and  chromphobic 
cells,  the  eiisteocc  of  the  two  portions 
of  the  glandular  lobe  and  the  way  of  de- 
fluiioQ  of  the  secretion.  These  ques- 
tions Dr  S.  discusses  in  detail. 


Phila., 

pi.)  Treats  of  n 
ing,  arms  and  armor,  etc.  Decadence 
of  tournament  and  jousl  dates  from 
middle  of  l6tb  century,  —  death  of 
Heniy  JI  in  famous  joust  with  Comte  de 
Mongomeri.  They  came  into  eiistence 
with  the  Middle  Ages. 
StTAti  (C.  H.)  De  phylogenetische 
beteekenis  van  het  mamma-organ. 
(Hdlgn.  V.  d.  Neder].  Anthr,  Ver., 
Den  Haag,  1904,  I,  Sl-Sa. )  Dr  S. 
distinguishes  four  forms  of  mammae,,  the 

tna  areotala,  mamma  papillala,  —  the 
third  is  "primitive"  and  the  fourth 
"  progreiaive,"  the  one  characterizing 
the  negro,  the  other  the  white  races. 
Further  details  are  given  in  Dr  S-'s  Dit 
Naturgrschichtr  ^is  _MenstheH  (Stutt- 
gart, 1904I.  .'■ 

ThOl^  (f.  W. )  D9  Internationale 
KattHoederoaturwissenschaftlichen  Lit- 

>  eratur,  Abteilung  P :  Physische  An- 
thropologie.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904. 
LXXXVl,  185-187.)  Critique  of  the  see- 
tion  on  physical  anthropoli^  of  the  In- 
'  '" i/ologve  of  Self    '"     '  '' 


T.  advo 


n  annual  author 


bibliography. 
Vierkandt  (A.)  Der  Mimus.  (Ibid., 
1904,  Lxxxv,  356-358.)  Critical  risum* 
of  Hermann  Reich's  Der  Mimus.  Ein 
lilirar-enhaicklungsgcich  ichllicktr  Vtr- 
such,  Bd.  I.  Erstcr  u.  Zweiter  Th. 
(Beriin,  1903).  devoted  to  the  study  of 
the  history  and  evolution  of  the  kind  of 
poetry  designated  by  the  classical  term 
mimus.  Vierkandt  does  not  quite  ap- 
prove Reich's  derivative  of  the  Greek 
mimus  from  a  certain  species  of  older 
religious  representations.  The  influence 
of  the  mimu!  is  seen  in  the  "  fool  "  ot 
Shakespeare,  the  clown  of  the  circus, 
etc. 


I40 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


Wud  (D.  J.  H.)     First  year]}'  meeting  i 
of  the  lows  Antbropoli^ail   Associa-  i 
ttcm.     (lova  J.  of  Hist.  &  Pol.,  lowB 
City,     1904,    11,    342-368. )     Rtsumii 
proceediags  and  papers  read  by  Messrs  ' 
Wilder   (Physiogimphy),   Nulling   (Bio-  . 
logy).  Fairbuiks  (Archeoli^y),  Shimek 
(Loess),   FaaraiaoD   (Davenport  Acad- 
emy), Flora  (Philoli^y),  Loos  (Social-  . 
i^y),  Bolton  (Education),   Shambaogh  I 
(Histoiy),   McCee  (Human   ProgreSE],  ' 
on  various  aspects  of  anthropology.  I 

EUROPE  I 

Annandale  (N.)     The  sarviral  of  primi-   1 

tive  implements,  materials  and  methods 
in  the  Faroes  and  south  Iceland.     (J.    1 
Anthr.  Inst.,  Lend.,  1903,  xxxiii,  246-   I 
258,  I  pi. )     Treats  of  objects  of  stone, 
and    skin    (hammers,    ponnders. 


sinkers    for    fishing- line 


weights  and  whorls,  stone  lamps, 
use  comparatively  recently,  ~  toys  and 
implements  from  bones  of  whales,  bone- 
skates,  pins,  needles,  li&h- carriers,  bone- 
sinkers,  weaver's  sword,  skin  shies, 
floats,  putlin-wing  brooms ;  skin-win- 
dows, —  now  obsolete ) ,  baskets  and 
creels.  The  resemblance  between  these 
baskets  and  certain  clay  vessels  is  very 
striking. 
BatM  (W.  N. )  Scenes  from  the  ^^thiopis 
on  a  black-figured  amphora.  (Trans. 
Dept.  Arch.  Univ.  of  Penn..  Phila., 
1904.  I,  45-50,  3  pi.)  Describes  frag- 
ments of  Greek  vases   from  Orvieto  in 

' '  two  of  the  most  important  events  de- 
scribed in  the  Aithiopis,  namely,  the 
death  of  Antilochus  and  the  death  of 
Acbilles."  The  ^ihiofis,  continuation 
of  the  /AW,  was  the  work  of  Arclinus 
of  Miletus. 

BaDdanin  (M.)  L'influeocedumariachl- 
nage  sur  les  formes  de  natality.  ( Bull. 
Soc.  d' Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  ^-^  s.,  v, 
80-87.)  From  a  statistical  study  of  the 
birth  and  marriage  data  of  the  de  Mont 
region,  Dr  B.  concludes  that  the  custom 
of  "  mariachinage "  or  pre-marriage 
sexual  relations  has  a  more  moralizing 
effect  than  at  first  sight  would  be  granted, 
—  although  ^j  or  )^  of  the  young  women 
marry  tnceinle,  for  it  overbalances  the 
illegitimate  births.  It  also  seems  to 
favor  marriage  and  docs  not  reduce  the 
birth-rate.  The  author  considers  that 
"10  poetic  and  fecund  a  custom"  adds 


the  perpetuation  of  the  spedes. 

Les  menhirs  satellites  dcs  mtgalitbcs 

funiraires.  (Ibid.,  139-142.)  Dr  B. 
argues  that  among  menhirs  properly  M- 
called,  exclusive  of  alignments  and 
cromlechs,  are  to  be  distinguished  iso- 
lated large  menhirs  or  "  indicator  aienhin 
at  a  distance,"  and  the  lesser  menhin 
close  to  funerary  megaliths,  which  wboi 
venr  near  and  regularly  disposed  may  be 
called  satellites  of  the  megalilhic  tcpol- 
ture,  and  they  may  indicate  that  the 
dolmen  or  covered  way  was  formerly  hid- 
den from  the  eye.  TTie  "pierre  folle" 
of  Plessis  and  the  "covered  way"  of 
the  Landes  are  cited. 

Mnnd  (G.)  Galel-polissoirs.  (Ibid., 
'S3-IS4-)  AuthorhasfouQdi3Softh«*e 
pebbles  at  11  "sUtions."  They  were 
probably  used  to  make  the  grooves  of  the 
polishers  for  use  on  stone  axes. 

TonBliiMr  (C.  A.  U)  Die  RSmerw^ 
iwiscben  der  Unterveser  und  der  Nied^ 
elbe  und  die  mutmasslichen  AnkerpUtK 
des  Tiberius  im  Jahre  5  n.  Chr. 
(Globus,  Bmscbwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  37- 
41.)  The  place  of  anchoring  of  Tibmns 
must  have  been  in  tbe  region  of  the  lake 
near  Bederkesa,  then  connected  with  tbe 
Elbe  or  the  mouth  of  the  Ostc. 

Bord  (Harriet  A.)  Goumia. — Kepoit 
of  the  American  Exploration  Sodety** 
Excavations  at  Goumia,  Crete,  190I- 
1903.  (Trans,  Dept.  Arch.,  Univ.  of 
Penn.,  Phila.,  1904,  I,  7-44,  I  pi.,  31 
fgs.,map.)  Treats  of  Turkish,  Venetian, 
Gneco-Koman,  Iron  age  (l7cx>-i5oo  B. 
C),  Bronic  age  (before  iioo  B.  C) 
ruins  and  remains,  literary  testimony  00 
the  isthmus,  the  town  and  its  buildiogli 
stone  tools,  bronie  tools  and  weapon^ 
stone  vases,  lamps,  basins,  potteiy 
(painted  and  unpainted),  modeling,  en- 
graving, writing,  etc.  Gournia  is 
thought  to  be  one  of  the  90  dlies  men- 
tioned by  Homer. 

BnniB  (C.  M.)  A  few  impressions  of 
Segesta  and  Selinus.  ( Proc.  Num.  & 
Antiq.  Soc.  of  Phiia.,  1903-1903  [l904]i 
185-1S6,  3  pi.)  Describes  ruins  as  leea 
in    1903-1903.      At  Selinunte   are  the 

proportions. 
Cans  (P.)     Russian  icons.     (Open  Ct. 
Chicago,  I9(H,  xviii,  449^53,  9  fgs.) 
Descnbes  in  partictUar  the  Hudoui  fald- 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


141 


ing  icon  of  St  Petersburg  and  reproduces 
this  and  others. 

Cooley  (A.  S. )  The  Macedonian  tomb 
and  the  battlefield  of  Cheroneia.  ( Rec. 
of  Past,  Wash.,  1904,  ill,  131-143,  7 
fgs. )  R6sum6s  the  investigations  of  Dr 
G.  Soteriades.  The  large  funeral  mound 
is  identified  with  the  tomb  of  the  Mace- 
donians mentioned  by  Plutarch.  The 
colossal  stone  lion,  marking  the  grave  of 
the  Thebans,  blown  up  during  the  Greek 
Revolution,  is  now  being  restored. 

Cr6pin  (G.)  et  Laville  (A.^  D^cou- 
verte  et  fouille  du  dolmen  ae  Muriel. 
(Bull.  Soc  d*Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  \'« 
s.,  V,  1 1 7- II 8.)  Notes  on  discovery  in 
December,  1903,  of  the  Muriel  dolmen 
and  the  objects  (pottery  fragments,  flint 
implements,  stone  and  bone  ornaments, 
flint  arrowheads  and  axes)  found.  The 
human  bones  include  a  trepanned  skull. 

Crittenden  (A.  R. )  The  topography  and 
monuments  of  ancient  Rome.  (Rec.  of 
Past,  Wash.,  1904,  III,  310-314,  5  fgs.) 
R6sum6s  Professor  S.  B.  Platner's  Topo- 
graphy and  Monuments  of  Ancient 
Ronu  (Boston,  1904). 

Dana  (C.  £. )  The  English  coronation, 
its  service  and  its  history.  (Proc.  Num. 
and  Antiq.  Soc.  of  Phila.,  1902- 1 903 
[1904],  99-133.)  Contains  interesting 
historical  notes  on  ceremony,  etiquette, 
dress  and  ornament,  the  crown,  anoint- 
ment, throne.  King's  champion,  etc. 

DeLoe  (B.  A.)  Discovery  of  an  ancient 
wooden  structure  in  the  excavations  of 
Port  Zeebrugge.  (Rec.  of  Past,  Wash., 
1904,  III,  344-346,  2  fgs.)  Translated 
from  Bull.  d.  Mus,  R.  des  Arts  Dhor. 
et  Industr.,  Brussels.  Description  of 
what  may  have  been  the  frame  or  ground- 
work of  an  artificial  island  in  a  marsh. 
The  structure  ( there  is  no  trace  of  metal ) 
probably  dates  from  the  Roman  period. 

Delore  ( M. )  Les  Romains  et  les  Francs 
dans  les  montagnes  du  centre  de  la  Gaule 
au  sein  de  1'  Arvemic.  (Bull.  Soc.  d' 
Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  \^  s.,  v,  104- 
109. )  The  Arvemic  region  had  special 
attractions  for  the  Romans, —  around  St. 
Flour  1 8  sites  indicating  the  presence  of 
their  civilization  have  been  discovered. 
The  author  describes  in  some  detail  the 
finds  at  the  villa  of  Mons,  and  also  some 
Prankish  weapons  found  in  this  region. 

Dumas  ( U. )  La  station  des  Chataigniers- 
Baron,  Gard.     (Ibid.,  157-158. )     This 


neolithic  <' station  *'  is  characterized  by 
the  diminutive  size  of  the  stone  imple- 
ments found.  The  pottery  ( rare )  has  no 
spar  in  the  paste.  The  *' station"  may 
be  due  to  a  nomadic  people  with  early 
neolithic  culture. 

La  grotte    Nicolas,    commune    de 

Sainte  Anastasie,  Gard.  (Ibid.,  158- 
159.)  Brief  description  of  a  funeral 
grotto  of  the  transitional  period  between 
the  stone  age  and  the  age  of  the  metals 
and  the  remains  of  human  bones,  stone 
implements,  pottery,  terra-cotta  statuette 
of  a  nude  man,  perhaps  the  earliest 
representation  of  the  human  figure  in  this 
material  known. 

Oebhardt  ( A. )  Die  Rentiere  auf  Island. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  261- 
263.)  Gives,  after  Th.  Thoroddsen, 
the  history  of  the  reindeer  in  Iceland, 
where  it  is  not  native  as  is  often  stated, 
but  was  introduced  in  1 77 1  from  Norway. 
The  polar- fox  is  also  not  indigenous, 
but  an  accidental  immigrant  (originally 
brought  on  drift  ice). 

Hoffmann-Krayer  (£.)  Knabenschaften 
und  Volksjustiz  in  der  Schweiz.  (Schw. 
Arch.  f.  Volsk.,  Zurich,  1904,  viii, 
81-99,  1 61- 1 78. J  An  interesting  and 
valuable  study  of  societies  of  the  youth 
and  folk-justice  in  Switzerland.  The 
names  of  these  organizations  and  their 
officers,  their  duties  and  activities,  history 
and  character  in  the  various  cantons,  are 
discussed.  They  busied  themselves  with 
wooing  and  marriage,  leasts  and  festivals, 
took  over  the  control  of  certain  social, 
religious,  political,  military  events,  etc. 
They  were  generally  no  unruly  mob  of 
chance-met  youths,  but  performed  dis- 
tinctly useful  service  in  the  community. 
Dr  H.-K.  emphasizes  their  religiousness 
and  sexual  morality, —  their  decrees  were 
directed  notably  against  godlessness, 
cursing  and  swearing,  breaking  the 
divine  commands,  wrong  conduct  on 
Sundays,  holidays,  fast  days,  etc.,  im- 
morality. In  Switzerland,  as  the  oc- 
currence of  the  charivari  shows,  the 
amenities  of  married  life  came  under  the 
eye  of  folk-justice.  The  unofficial  char- 
acter of  these  organizations  made  it  easy 
for  some  of  them  to  become  mere 
parodies  of  official  institutions.  Their 
three  chief  characters  were  sacral, 
judicial,  military.  Beneath  all  the  author 
sees  "belief  in  the  holiness  and  purify- 
ing power  of  youth." 


142 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


Volkmedizinisches.     (Schw.  Arch. 

f.  Volksk.,  Ziirich,  1904,  viii,  141- 
153.)  Gives  Dumerous  items  of  folk- 
medicine  received  in  answer  to  question- 
naire recently  sent  out. 

Jones  (II.  S. )  Recent  discoveries  in 
Rome.  (Am.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1904, 
XXVI,  236-239. )  Notes  on  excavations 
in  the  Forum,  the  Lacus  Curtius,  etc. 
Reprinted  from  the  London  Times. 

K.  (W. )  Kunstgewerbliche  Frauenarbeit 
in  den  Ostalpen  und  Nachbargebieten. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  93- 
95. )  Treats  of  the  work  of  women  and 
girls  (house-industry  especially)  in  the 
production  of  embroidery,  carpets,  lace 
(blond,  etc. ).  Lace  is  made  of  yam, 
silk,  silver,  gold,  etc.,  in  more  than  500 
patterns  at  the  lace-school  at  Idria.  The 
Bosnian  women  are  adepts  in  making 
oriental  carpets.  Appenzell  embroidery 
is  of  great  reputation. 

Knowles  ( W.  }. )  Stone  axe  factories 
near  Cushendall,  County  Antrim.  (J. 
Anthr.  Inst.  Lond.,  1903,  xxxiii,  360- 
366,  8  pi.)  Describes  sites  in  Ballye- 
mon  Glen,  where  thousands  of  flakes, 
etc.,  exist  and  from  which  800  whole 
axes  were  obtained.  The  most  favored 
material  used  has  not  been  found  in  situ 
in  the  district.  The  boulders,  in  various 
states  of  flaking,  indicate  the  process  of 
manufacture.  These  implements  prob- 
ably belong  to  an  early  stage  of  the 
neolithic  period, —  some  have  been  found 
in  the  clay  below  the  peat. 

Kopp  ( A. )  Handschrift  der  Trierer  Stadt- 
bibliothek  vom  Jahre  1744.  (Hess.  Bl. 
f.  Volksk.,  Leipzig,  1904,  III,  16-54.) 
Describes,  with  abundant  citation  of 
material,  a  German  song-book  in  Ms.  in 
the  public  library  of  Trier,  dating  from 
1744,  and  probably  belonging  originally 
to  a  pious  Catholic  family  of  Cologne. 
A  number  of  French  pieces  are  included, 
—  also  a  few  drinking  songs  and  some 
folk-lyrics. 

Kraitschek  (G.)  Die  Menschenrassen 
Europas.  (Polit. -Anthr.  Rev.,  Berlin, 
1903-1904,  15-45,  533-547»  684-704.) 
R^sum^s  data  on  the  races  of  Europe, 
their  divisions,  physical  characters,  etc. 
Dr  K.  recognizes  three  chief  European 
races  :  Nordic  (light,  tall,  dolichocephal- 
ic) radiating  from  Scandinavian  ;  south 
European  (dark,  short,  dolichoceph- 
alic) ;  Mediterranean,   kin  with  certain 


North  African  and  West  Asiatic  people, 
brachycephalic  [Mongolian,  Celtic  or 
Alpine, —  both  broad-faced  ;  Sarmatian, 
long-faced]  originating  from  central  Asia. 

Krause  ( E.  L. )  Einige  neuere  Ergebnisse 
der  skandinavischen  Quart&rforschung. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904,  Lxxxv,  381- 
382. )  Reviews  recent  literature  on  the 
quatemary  period  in  Sweden  and  Nor- 
way. The  middens  of  Schonen  must  be 
older  than  the  remains  discovered  on  the 
island  of  Sven  and  described  by  Anders- 
son  in  1902. 

ManoUTlier  ( L. )  Incisions,  cauterisations 
et  trepanations  cr&niennes  de  I'^poque 
n^olithique.  (Bull.  Soc.  d' Anthr.  de 
Paris,  1904,  V  s.,  v,  67-73,  ^  fg-) 
Dr  M.  argues,  as  Dr  Loydreau  did  30 
years  ago,  that  the  fine  thin  pieces  of 
flint,  quartz,  etc.,  belonging  to  the  neo- 
lithic period,  were  tools  of  the  primitive 
''  surgeon  ' '  for  use  in  trepanning,  etc.  A 
trepanned  skull  from  the  dolmen  of 
Champignolles  is  described  with  some 
detail.     (See  page  17.) 

Note  sur  les  ossements  humains  du 

dolmen  du  terrier  de  Cabut,  Gironde. 
(Bull.  Soc.  d* Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904, 
v«  s. ,  V,  73-76. )  Describes,  with  chief 
measurements,  a  skull  (index  81.8), 
several  mandibles,  femurs,  etc.,  from  a 
dolmen  of  the  Morgian  epoch  at  Cabut, 
much  damaged  by  agricultural  opera- 
tions. One  of  the  astragali  found  has 
<'an  almost  simian  form." 

Sur  I'aspect  n6groTdedequelques  crAnes 

pr6historiques  trouv6s  en  France.  (Ibid. , 
119-124,  I  fg.)  Dr  M.  argues  that  the 
seemingly  negroid  aspect  of  the  Mentone 
crania  **  is  due  to  morphologic  characters 
whose  occurrence  together  in  the  same 
skull  is  certainly  rare  in  the  white  race,** 
but  does  not  require  the  assumption  of 
negro  ancestry.  They  vst.  female  skulls, 
which  explains  some  of  their  peculiar 
features.  The  fades  mon^oloideus  said 
to  be  frequent  in  certain  parts  of  Brittany 
becomes,  when  associated  with  dolicho- 
cephaly,  Vifmcies  nef^roideus.  The  author 
discusses  also  the  skull  from  the  dolmen 
of  M6riel.     See  Cr^pin  et  Laville. 

Cr&nes   de   vieillards  de   I'^poque 

n^olithique  en  France.  ( Ibid.,  101-104, 
2  fgs. )  Describes  two  neolithic  skulls, 
from  the  dolmen  of  Pocancy  and  a  grotto 
in  H6rault,  both  of  which  bear  marks  of 
advanced  old  age.     The  chief  signs  of 


k 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


H3 


old  age  are  atrophy  of  the  alveolar  por- 
tion of  the  maxillary  and  the  more  or 
less  symmetrical  sinking  of  the  external 
table  of  the  parietals,  due  to  atrophy  of 
the  spongy  tissue  of  the  center.  These 
skulls  are  interesting  in  view  of  the  fact 
that  many  theorists  have  not  admitted  the 
possibility  of  the  attainment  of  high  old 
age  among  the  savage  ancestors  of  the 
present  races  of  man. 

Mayr  (A.)  Die  voi^eschichtlichen  Denk- 
m&ler  von  Sardinien.  (Globus,  Bm- 
schwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  133-137.)  R6- 
sum^s  present  knowledge  of  Sardinian 
antiquities  —  based  chiefly  on  Pinza's 
Monumenti  primitivi  delta  Sardegna 
(Roma,  1901 ).  According  to  P.,  with 
whom  M.  agrees,  the  nuraghi  are 
**  graves  *  *  —  there  exist  also  the  **  giants' 
graves ' '  and  the  domos  de  inna^  or  rock 
graves,  besides  natural  caves.  The  cul- 
ture of  the  nuraghi^  giants'  graves,  rock 
graves,  etc.,  suggests  a  close  connection 
between  Sardinia,  the  Balearic  islands, 
the  islands  between  Sicily  and  Africa 
and  the  southern  part  of  Spain  and 
France  during  the  bronze  period.  There 
is  a  unity — a  sort  of  "western  Medi- 
terranean culture  area"  indicated.  In- 
fluences of  older  i^ean  culture  are 
present  in  this  region  —  also  Mycsenian 
and  pre-Mycsenian  both  in  implements 
and  architecture.  The  nuraghi  people 
were  probably  of  African  origin.  The 
specific  creators  of  old  Sardinian  culture 
were  the  Jolai  of  the  ancient  Roman 
writers. 

Mehiis  (C.)  Die  Nekropole  im  Benzen- 
lockbei  Neustadt  a.  d.  H.  (Ibid.,  1904, 
LXXXV,  388. )  Brief  account  of  the  con- 
tents of  6  tumuli  examined  in  1904. 
The  neolithic,  Hallstatt,  La  Tdne,  and 
Roman  periods  are  all  represented  —  the 
last  two  subsequent  interments. 

OfFord  (J.)  Roman  discoveries  in  Great 
Britain.  (Am.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1904, 
XXVI,  17-23.)  Treats  of  discoveries  of 
1903  :  altars  and  tablets  from  New- 
castle-upon-Tyne, inscriptions  from  mili- 
tary station  at  Brough  (Derbyshire)  and 
city  of  Venta Silurum  (Monmouthshire), 
excavations  at  Silchester,  etc.  Frequent 
references  occur  in  the  inscriptions  to  in- 
dividuals of  German  origin  among  the 
Roman  soldiery  in  Britain.  Some  of  the 
deities  cited,  e.  g.,  Mogon^  may  also  be 
German. 

A    prehistoric    Scandinavian     sun- 


chariot.  (Ibid.,  234-235,  I  fg.)  De- 
scribes the  sun-chariot  (dating  from  ca. 
1000  B.  c. )  found  at  Trundholm.  The 
author  seeks  Babylonian  or  Sumerian 
connections. 

P.  Die  Karelier  im  russischen  Gouveme- 
ment  Twer.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904, 
LXXXVI,  188-189.)  Brief  r6sum6  of 
data  in  D.  Richter's  article  on  the 
Karelians  of  Twer  in  the  Journal  der 
finnisch-ugrischen  Gesellschaft  in  Hel- 
singforsy  1 904.  Folk- literature  and  folk- 
songs seem  to  have  vanished  —  even  the 
recollection  of  their  original  home. 
Russian  influence  is  marked  and  racial 
assimilation  has  increased  since  the  build- 
ing of  schools  and  the  coming  of  rail- 
roads, etc.  In  the  family  there  is  "no 
suppression  of  personality."  The  pro- 
portion of  males  to  females  is  100  :  1 10.6. 

Reindl  (J.)  Die  ehemaligen  Weinkul- 
turen  in  Siidbayem.  (Ibid.,  1904, 
LXXXV,  384-387. )  Discusses  the  extent 
of  the  vineyards  in  South  Bavaria,  the 
quality  of  the  wine,  and  the  cause  of  the 
decline  of  wine  culture  (the  increasing 
importation  of  foreign  wines  since  the 
14th  century).  The  vine  on  the  gables 
of  houses  and  bams,  the  frequent  occur- 
rence of  IVein  in  place-names,  etc.,  indi- 
cate the  influence  of  this  industry  since 
its  introductions  by  the  Romans. 

Rossat  (A.)  Les  paniers  :  podme  patois. 
(Schw.  Arch.  f.  Volksk.,  ZUrich,  1904, 
VIII,  116-140,196-219.)  Gives  dialect 
versions  and  literary  French  texts  of 
Raspieler's  poem  Les  Paniers  (1849), 
with  critical  notes  on  the  various 
versions. 

Schdner  (G. )  Erinnerungen  und  Ueber- 
lebsel  vergangener  Zeiten  aus  dem  Dorfe 
Eschenrod  im  Vogelsberg.  (Hess.  Bl. 
f.  Volksk.,  Leipzig,  1904,  in,  54-63.) 
Reproduces  from  the  narration  of  an  old 
man  25  items  of  beliefs,  customs,  folk- 
thought,  etc.,  from  the  village  of 
Eschenrod. 

Stuckelberg  ( E.  A. )  Die  Verehrung  des 
h.  Morand  Mon.  (Schw.  Arch.  f. 
Volksk.,  Zurich,  1904,  viii,  220-223, 
I  fg. )  Gives  account  of  the  develop- 
ment of  the  worship  of  the  late  medieval 
St  Morandus  of  Bftle,  limited  to  the 
Sundgau. 

Tedeschi  (E.  E. )  Contributo  alia  cranio- 
logia  dei  popoli  alpini.  (A.  d.  Accad. 
Sci.    Ven. -Trent. -Istr.,    Padova,    1904, 


144 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


■  I 


n . 


^*  s.,  I,  57-69.)  Gives  measurements 
and  descriptions  of  50  male  and  50 
female  skulls  from  the  ossuary  of  S. 
Pietro  in  the  commune  of  Zuglio. 
Homogeneity  in  the  distribution  of  the 
cephalic  indexes  in  both  sexes  is  marked. 
The  female  skulls  are  more  rectangular 
than  the  male.  There  are  features 
which  suggest  artificial  deformation 
rather  than  ethnic  characters. 

Tetzner  ( F. )  Zur  Volkskunde  der  Serben. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  85- 
91,  12  fgs. )  Treats  of  name,  dress 
(particularly  bridal),  houses,  furniture 
and  implements  (domestic  and  agri- 
cultural), folk-poetry  (  hero-song,  lyric- 
poems,  etc.).  Wooden  vessels  are  still 
much  in  use  ;  noteworthy  are  the  east 
Servian  calabashes.  The  Servian  ox- 
yoke  has  some  peculiarities,  likewise  the 
fire-tongs.  The  "puberty  cane**  also 
deserves  mention,  although  some  deny 
its  significance. 

Tobler  ( A. )  Der  Volkstanz  im  Appen- 
zellerlande.  (Schw.  Arch.  f.  Volksk., 
Zurich,  1904,  VIII,  100-115,  178-195.) 
Consists  of  the  music  for  some  1 7  Appen- 
zell  folk-dances. 

Vir6  ( A. )  Unc  station  solutr^enne.  Nou- 
velle  grotte  et  abri  sous  roche  de  Lacave, 
Lot.  (Bull.  Soc.  d'Anthr.  de  Paris, 
1904,  v«  s.,  V,  63-66.)  Describes  cave 
and  rock-shelter  with  remains  discovered 
( flints,  bone  implements  and  ornaments, 
shells,  kitchen  debris,  the  last  very 
numerous),  of  the  Solutrean  epoch 
(paleolithic). 

Walker  (F.  I.)  The  story  of  Pompeii. 
(Am.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1904,  xxvi,  169- 
176.)  R6sum6s  history  and  describes 
excavations  and  results,  as  revealing  the 
nature  of  the  city  and  its  inhabitants. 

Weinberg  ( R. )  Pr&historische  Feuersteine 
und  der  neolithische  Mensch  in  Baltisch- 
Russland.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904, 
LXXXVI,  231-235,  21  figs.)  The  East 
Baltic  region  oflfers  comparatively  few 
worked  flints,  —  a  dozen  or  so  is  the 
largest  find  (near  Swineek  on  Lake 
Burtneck).  Implements  combining  flints 
and  bone  (harpoons)  occur,  and  some  of 
the  flints  are  of  fine  workmanship  and 
belong  probably  with  the  RUgen-Pomer- 
ania  stone-age  culture.  The  Woisek 
skeleton  belongs  to  a  decidedly  dolicoce- 
phalic  type  (index  67)  —  Pomeranian 
and  also  Ladoga  lake  man  may  be  related. 


Der  syrjanische  Pam-Kultus.    (Ibid., 

259-261.)  Describes  the  Syrjanian  folk- 
figure  of  ram,  the  highest  conception  of 
this  people  of  the  governments  of 
Wologda  and  Archangelsk  in  European 
Russia.  Pam  incarnates  the  spirit  striv- 
ing after  light,  the  struggle  of  the  soul, 
the  ideal  of  humanity,  Uie  highest  aims 
of  man,  his  boldest  hopes,  his  deepest 
emotions  —  he  stands  high  above  all  that 
is  small  and  commonplace  in  the  life  and 
activities  of  men.  Para  is  perhaps  the 
same  as  the  half-god  of  the  Ugro- Finnish 
peoples. 

Wilser  ( L. )  Die  Menschenrassen  Euro- 
pas,  nach  Kraitschek.  (Ibid.,  45-46.) 
R^sum^s  the  article  of  Dr  G.  Kraitscheic 
on  European  races  in  the  Politisch-an- 
thropologische  Rrvue^  vols.  I- 1 1.  Dr 
W.  agrees  with  K.  that  the  dolichoce- 
phalic race  of  Europe  is  the  oldest,  the 
brachycephalic  a  later  immigrant  from 
the  East.  Also  as  to  the  mixture  of 
Finnish  peoples.     See  Kraitschek  (G.  ) 

Winter  (A.  C. )  Totenklagen  der  Russen. 
(Ibid.,  1904,  Lxxxv,  388-389.)  Gives 
German  texts  of  three   "death-wails'* 

from  Twer,  R&san  and  Cemigov.  In 
Twer  they  are  called  w6pi,   in  R&san 

kriki,  in  Jaroslav  pric6ty,  in  Cemigov 
Zapla^ki.  The  Twer  **wail*'  consists 
of  140  lines  containing  many  repetitions. 

Wright  (G.  F.)  The  bone  cave  of  San 
Ciro,  Sicily.  ( Rec.  of  Past,  Wash., 
1904,  III,  216-219,  2  fgs.)  Brief  notes 
on  the  investigation  of  this  cave  in  1 830. 
Immense  quantities  of  bones  (chiefly  of 
hippopotami  and  very  fresh),  some  of 
which  were  commercially  exploited,  were 
found.  Prestwich,  the  geologist,  thought 
a  land  subsidence,  in  times  when  the 
hippopotami  lived  in  this  part  of  the 
world,  drove  them  into  the  cave  for 
refuge. 

Zaborowski  (S. )  La  c6r6ale  protoary- 
enne.  (Bull.  Soc.  d'Anthr.  de  Paris, 
1904,  v«  s.,  V,  87-99.)  Treats  ot 
limits  of  the  proto- Aryan  period,  com- 
mon terms  relating  to  the  employment 
of  stone  implements  (words  for  knife, 
sword,  razor,  arrow,  whetstone,  etc. ), 
agriculture  in  the  European  and  Indo- 
Iranian  groups  (words  for  plow,  sickle, 
reap,  etc.  —  the  European  knowledge  of 
agriculture  was  earlier  than  the  Indo- 
Iranian),  the  late  app>earance  of  agricul- 
ture   (of   Teutonic  origin)   among  the 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


145 


Finns,  the  proto- Aryan  plow,  the  plants 
cultivated  by  the  proto-Aryans.  Z. 
thinks  that  the  proto-AiTans  long  con- 
fined themselves  to  gathering  wild  grains 
—  first  of  the  cereals  was  barley,  and  the 
oldest  names  signify  not  special  cereals 
but  simply  the  grains  of  the  wild  plant 

AFRICA 

Borchard  ( L. )  Excavations  of  the  Ger- 
man Oriental  Society  near  Abusir.  (  Rec. 
of  Past,  Wash.,  1904,  in,  195-212,  15 
fgs. )  Gives  account  of  excavations  of 
winters  of  1901-1902  and  1902-1903. 
Describes  the  temple  of  King  Ne- 
rooser-re ;  the  cemetery  surrounding 
''offers  traces  of  all  periods  of  Egyptian 
civilization."  Three  types  of  mastabas 
were  found. 

Brower  (C.  DeW. )  Phila.  abid.,  259- 
268,  6  fgs. )  Historical  and  descriptive 
account  of  Philse  and  its  famous  temples, 
now  threatened  with  possible  submersion 
by  the  erection  of  the  great  Assouan  dam. 
The  author  suggests  that  the  new  stone 
bulwark  is  really  more  beautiful  than  the 
old  ruined  temples  because  more  useful, 
now  that  the  day  of  the  Fellaheen  has 
come. 

Curtis  (W.  E.)  Ancient  cities  of  Egypt, 
f  Am.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1904,  xxvi,  77- 
84. )  These  notes,  originally  contributed 
to  the  Chicago  Record- Heraldy  treat  of 
Alexandria,  Cairo  and  its  university, 
stone  towers,  Memphis,  mastaba  of  Ti, 
rock-hewn  tombs,  etc. 

DaTid  (J.)  Notizen  Qber  die  Pygm&en 
des  Ituriwaldes.  (Globus,  Bmschwg., 
1904,  Lxxxvi,  193-198.)  Treats  of 
physical  characters,  dwellings,  imple- 
ments and  utensils  (few  and  pots  rare), 
tobacco  (obtained  from  taller  negroes 
and  much  used  by  pygmies ),  bunting  and 
other  activities  (traps and  pits),  counting, 
language  (brief  vocabulary  including 
numerals  and  proper  names  of  men  and 
women).  No  evidences  of  degeneration 
or  abnormality  exist  and  the  Wambutti 
have  been  for  centuries  the  primitive  for- 
est folk  they  are  now.  There  is  no  sym- 
biosis with  the  surrounding  agricultural 
peoples,  as,  e.  g.,  at  Mawambi.  Dr  D. 
describes  (p.  197)  a  new-bom  child. 
Their  uncleanliness,  dread  of  water, 
ignorance  of  boiling  flesh,  etc.,  are  noted. 
The  author,  from  his  personal  experience, 
credits  these  pygmies  with  great  skill  in 
hunting  and  tradcing  animals. 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S  ,  7~XO 


Ton  Doeiing  (Hptnt,)  Ueber  die  Her- 
stellung  von  Seife  in  Togo.  (Ibid.,  282- 
283.)  Describes  the  manufacture  of 
soap  by  the  negresses  of  Togo-land.  It 
is  made  from  the  ashes  of  the  kongulu 
palm  and  some  other  trees  and  palm- 
seed  oil. 

G«werbe  (Das)  in  Ruanda.  (Ibid.,  82> 
83.)  R6sum6  of  the  article  of  Dr  R. 
Kandt.  See  American  Anthropologist y 
1904,  vol.  VI,  N.  s.,  731. 

Hobley  (C.  W.J  British  East  Africa: 
Anthropological  studies  in  Kavirondo  and 
Nandi.  (J.  Anthr.  Inst.  Lond.,  1903, 
XXXIII,  325-359,  3  pi.  8  fgs. )  Treats 
of  legends  of  tbe  origin  of  the  Ja-Luo 
race  and  their  genealogy,  genealogy  of 
the  Awa-Wanga,  animal-stories  of  the 
Ama-Wanga,  ghost  beliefs  of  the  Ithako, 
omens,  ancestor- worship,  charms  (a  list 
of  the  components  of  the  magic  necklace 
of  a  chief  is  given  at  page  345),  totems 
(list  given),  rain-making,  c^It  of  the 
mkia  (speci/il  mark  of  married  woman), 
<<mika"  operation  on  girls  among  the 
Guasangishu  and  Nandi,  naming  of 
children,  tattooing  and  tribal  marks, 
numeral  proportion  of  sexes  (table  given; 
in  Bantu  tribes  male  births  exceed 
female,  in  Nilotic  vice  versa),  the  isira 
custom  (vendetta),  miscellaneous  cus- 
toms and  beliefs,  laws  of  succession  among 
the  Ja-Luo  (chiefship  goes  to  eldest  son 
of  wife  whom  father  married  first),  etc. 
Neither  the  Ja-Luo  nor  the  Nandi  have 
such  animal- love  as  the  Ama-Wanga. 
The  Ithako  consider  ghosts  much  larger 
than  life-size.  Cremation  of  a  corpse  and 
re- interring  the  ashes  *'  lays  "  a  ghost. 
Charms  are  legion.  Artificial  deflower- 
ing of  dead  virgins  occurs  among  the 
Ama-Wanga. 

Hutter  (F.)  Volkergruppierung  in  Ka- 
merun.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904, 
LXXXVI,  1-5,  map.)  The  distribution- 
map  suggests  an  ethnic  chaos.  The 
greatest  sections  are  the  Bantu  and  the 
Sudan-Negroes,  the  third  chief  element 
consisting  of  intruding  non-negro  peoples. 
In  German  Bomu  are  the  Kanuri,  Ma- 
kari,  Musgu,  Marghi,  besides  tribes  of 
Arab  lineage  (Sh6a),  some  Fula,  immi- 
grants from  Baghirmi  and  Wadai,  from 
Dar  Rt^nga  and  Dongola.  In  Adamua 
are  Batta  tribes,  Fali,  Musgu,  Kanuri, 
Sh6a,  Mbum,  Bantu,  Baia,  Tikar, 
Haussa,  etc.  In  the  primitive  forests 
of  the  west  and  south  dwell  the  Fans. 


146 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


I 


The  Fula  have  followed  often  the  ruins 
of  Haussa  <*  states.'*  Mixture  of  races 
has  long  been  taking  place  here. 

Slandt  ( R. )  Ein  Marsch  am  Ostufer  des 
Kiwu.  (Ibid.,  209-214,  245-249,  11 
fgs.)  Contains  notes  on  the  Watussi 
(higher  classes),  Wahutu  (Bantu  com- 
mon people),  etc.  A  pariah-folk,  the 
pygmy  Batwa,  is  scattered  over  the 
country.  The  east  shore  of  Lake  Kiwu 
belongs  to  Ruanda. 

Klose  ( H . )  Produktion  und  Handel  Togos. 
( Ibid. ,  69-75,  145-149. )  Notes  on  ex- 
ploitation of  oil-palm  and  its  products, 
caoutchouc,  ^^/-palm  (shi-butter),  cocoa- 
palm  (copra),  kola-nut,  earth-nut,  cas- 
sava, maize,  cotton,  caoutchouc,  cacao, 
etc.  The  spread  of  such  American 
plants  as  cassava,  maize,  and  cacao  in 
Africa  is  remarkable.  The  oil -palm  fur- 
nishes oil,  sauce,  salve,  hair-dressing, 
light,  building  material,  fish-traps,  food, 
drink,  etc. 

LeMner  (^Oberltn,^  Die  Balue-  oder 
Rumpiberge  und  ihre  Bewohner.  (Ibid., 
273-278,  337-344,  18  fgs.)  Contains 
notes  (pp.  277-278)  on  the  Balue, 
Bakundu,  Ngolo,  and  Batanga,  all  of 
Bantu  stock.  Several  albinos  (who 
enjoy  no  special  rOle)  were  met  with. 
Although  these  four  peoples  speak  the 
same  language,  yet  the  words  for  several 
things  (including  father y  nosey  dogy )  are 
not  the  same  in  all  of  them.  Tattooing, 
clothing,  and  ornaments  (comparatively 
little),  objects  used  in  dance  (very  num- 
erous and  manifold),  weapons,  houses 
and  villages,  "palaver ''-houses,  furni- 
ture and  utensils,  land-culture,  domestic 
animals,  etc.,  are  discussed.  Tobacco  is 
much  used. 

New  English  province  (The)  of  Nigeria. 
(Nat.  Geogr.  Mag.,  Wash.,  1904,  xv, 
433-442,  9  fgs. )  Contains  notes  on  the 
city  of  Kano  and  the  people  of  the  prov- 
ince, chiefly  Hausas. 

OfFord  (J. )  Discoveries  in  Egypt.  (Am. 
Antiq.,  Chicago,  1904,  xxvi,  73-77.) 
Discusses  the  inscription  of  the  **  Stele 
of  Palermo  "  (5  th  or  6th  dynasty,  relat- 
ing to  Heliopolis),  the  new  papyrus 
(ca.  410  B.  c.)  from  Luxor,  and  two 
new  cuneiform  tablets  from  Tel-el 
Amama. 

^—  Monuments  of  primitive  Pharaohs. 
(Ibid.,  240-242.)  Author  thinks  that 
evidence  shows  that  these  early  monarch, 


were  not  petty  princes,  but  ruled  over 
upper  and  lower  Egypt.  It  also  proves 
the  accuracy  of  Manetho's  lists  and  the 
increasing  antiquity  of  Egyptian  culture. 

ParlBh  Yon  Senftenburg  (Freih.  O.) 
Zwei  Reisen  durch  Ruanda  1902  bis 
1903.  (Globus,  Brnschwg.,  1904, 
Lxxxvi,  5-13,  73-79,  13  fgs.,  map.) 
Based  on  data  of  Lieut,  von  Parish.  Con- 
tains ethnographic  notes  on  the  Watusi 
(a  tall  negro  people),  Mssinga,  the 
ruler  of  Ruanda,  the  dwarf  executioners 
of  Mssinga  (Bagiga  or  Watwa).  The 
Watwa  of  the  volcanic  region  are  said 
to  be  cannibals.  The  Watwa  and  Watusi 
(the  ruling  element  in  Ruanda)  get 
along  well  together. 

Pittard  (M. )  Sur  lamonnaie  du  Ba-Souto. 
(Bull.  Soc.  d'Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v« 
s.,  V,  142-143.)  Describes  the  iirale 
or  copper  money  of  the  Basuto  from  a 
sp>ecimen  in  the  Geneva  Museum  and 
one  presented  to  the  Anthropological 
Society. 

Sg.  Die  Festlegung  der  Westgrenze  von 
Togo.  (Globus,  Brnschwg,  1904, 
LXXXVI,  283-286,  map. )  Contains  brief 
notes  on  the  Moab,  Guan  tribes,  Nawuri, 
Shanbordn,  Nanumba  (becoming  more 
and  more  Mohammedanized),  Dag- 
bamba,  Tjanse,  Kusa,  Konkomba, 
Chokosi,  etc. 

Singer  (H.)  Eine  Begr&bnish5hle  auf 
der  Insel  Bussira,  Victoria  Nyansa. 
( Ibid. ,  80-82,  I  fg. )  Notes  on  a  photo- 
graph by  the  late  Lieut,  von  Parish, 
representing  a  grave  on  the  island  of 
Bussira,  and  on  the  funeral  customs  of 
the  Wasiba.  A  sort  of  strata-deposition 
of  corpses  is  practised. 

Hauptmann    Merkers  Monographic 

Uber  die  Massai.  (Ibid.,  264-268,  10 
fgs. )  R^sum^s  Capt.  M.  Merker's  Die 
Masai.  Ethnographische  Monographic 
eines  ostafrikanischen  Semitcnvolkes 
(Berlin,  1904).  On  anthropological, 
ethnographic  and  ethnologic  grounds 
(but  particularly  from  study  of  their 
myths)  M.  holds  that  the  Masai  are  of 
Semitic  lineage,  but  he  probably  places 
too  much  weight  on  certain  legends.  The 
beginning  of  Masai  immigration  he  sets  at 
ca.  5000  B.  c.  Cattle  are  of  great  im- 
portance for  the  Masia,  but  in  conse- 
quence of  the  great  cattle-plague  of  some 
14-15  years  ago,  they  are  in  process  of 
change  from   cattle-nomads  to  agricul- 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


147 


turists.  To  the  main  part  of  the  book 
are  added  ethnobotanical  notes  and  an- 
thropological descriptions  of  18  men  and 
43  women.  At  pages  286-287  of  Globus 
is  given  the  creation  myth  of  the  Masai. 

Sommerrille  (M.)  Amulets  and  talis- 
mans from  Senegal.  (Proc.  Num.  and 
Antiq.  Soc.  of  Phila.,  1902-1903  [1904], 
53,  2  pi. )  Brief  note  and  photographs 
of  6  amulets  from  the  Sahara,  east  of 
Senegal. 

ASIA 

Carus  (P.)  Stone-worship.  (Open  Ct, 
Chicago,  1904,  XVIII,  45-52,  7  fes.) 
Treats  of  stone-worship,  votive  stones, 
etc.,  among  the  Phenicians. 

Pre-Christian  crosses  as  symbols  of 


chthonic  deities.  (Ibid.,  285-290,  12 
fgs.)  Author  notes  that  the  cross  is 
found  on  tombs  in  Asia  Minor  and  used 
in  connection  with  chthonic  deities,  gods 
of  the  lower  world.  Hades,  etc. 

The    religion    of    proto-Semitism. 


(Ibid.,  421-429.)  Based  on  Prof.  S.  I. 
Curtiss'  Ursemitische  Religion  (Leip- 
zig, 1904),  the  improved  German  edition 
of  the  author's  Primitive  Semitic  Re- 
ligion, Chicago,  1902. 

Corea.     (Ibid.,    218-220,   2   fgs.) 


Contains  notes  on  coat-of-arms  and  kwas 
or  trigrams. 

—  The  Rosetta  stone.  (Ibid.,  531-536, 
3  fgs. )  Describes  the  stone  with  cuts  of 
the  hierogljrphic,  demotic,  and  Greek 
inscriptions. 

The  spinning  damsel.     (Ibid.,  568- 


5^>  I  fg* )  Brief  account  of  an  ancient 
bas-relief  from  Susa  of  a  Semitic  (?) 
maiden  spinning,  while  a  slave  behind 
£euis  her. 

—  Naram-sin's stele.  (Ibid.,  563-567, 
4  fgs. )  Describes  the  stele  (now  in  the 
Louvre)  of  Naram-sin  (ca.  3750  b.  c.) 
found  in  the  ruins  of  Susa  by  DeMorgan. 
The  facial  types  of  the  Elamites  are  repro- 
duced in  outlines. 

—  Japanese  leaders.  (Ibid.,  454-478, 
21  fgs.  Treats  of  the  Mikado,  the  Em- 
press, Oyama,  Yamagata,  Kodowa, 
Kuroki,  Oku,  Nodzu,  Nogi,  Ito,  Yama- 
mato,  Togo,  Kamimura,  Uriu,  Hirose, 
Fukushima  (author  of  patriotic  poems  as 
well  as  a  general).  Some  of  these  nota- 
bles represent  the  Japanese  physical  type 
(or  types),  others,  apparently,  do  not. 


Clement  (E.  W.)  The  Japanese  floral 
calendar.  (Ibid.,  6-13,  107-112,  163- 
165,  213-217,  282-284,  351-354,  394- 
397,  499-5oi>  554-557,  615-617,  695- 
698,  723-73 1,  28  fgs. )  Interesting  notes 
on  the  pine,  plum,  peach,  cherry,  wis- 
taria, iris,  morning-glory,  lotus,  nana- 
kusa  (<*  seven  grasses'*),  maple,  chrys- 
anthemum, camellia,  the  various  month- 
flowers  in  poetry,  art,  etc.  The  Japanese 
love  a  flower  as  a  flower.  To  them  a 
bouquet  is  floral  murder  and  the  whole 
theory  of  Japanese  flower  arrangement 
'depends  upon  the  *  language  of  line' 
rather  than  upon  mass  or  color.''  The 
arrangement  of  flowers  is  an  important 
item  in  woman's  education. 

Crabbe  (J.  J. )  Japanese  songs  and  folk- 
lore. (Ibid.,  277-481.)  According  to 
the  author  '<  no  other  nation  has  so  rich 
a  treasury  of  folk-lore  as  the  Japanese,  or 
has  such  a  wealth  of  myth  and  romance," 
and  religion,  myth,  romance  and  history 
are  inextricably  intertwined.  One  of 
the  most  popular  collections  of  songs  and 
folk-lore  is  the  Hyak  Nin  Is^shiu  Mine 
No  Kake-hashi.  The  Taketori  Mono^ 
gatari  was  first  issued  about  iboo  years 
ago.  The  Japanese  variant  of  Rip  van 
Winkle  is  given  on  page  279. 

Doolittle  (G.  E.)  Neglected  archeologi- 
cal  ruins  in  Coelesyria.  ( Rec.  of  Past, 
Wash.,  1904,  III,  227-233,  12  fgs.) 
Notes  on  die  Libo  aqueduct,  the  temple 
ruins  of  Kefr  Zebed,  Shleefa  Niha,  the 
shrine  near  Kobb  Elias,  the  Kamu'  at 
Hermil  (a  monument  of  some  hunting 
monarch,  etc.).  These  ruins  have  been 
neglected  because  so  overshadowed  by 
**  the  titanic  ruins  of  Baalbek."  Coele- 
syria was  the  home  of  Baal  worship. 

El-Howie  (Ghosn. )  Gezer  foundation  de- 
posits and  modem  beliefs.  ( Ibid. ,  212— 
216.)  Treats  of  foundation-sacrifices, 
ancient  and  modem,  of  this  region  in  con- 
nection with  the  finding  at  Tell-el-Jezari 
(the  Gezer  of  King  Solomon)  of  jars 
containing  bodies  of  infants,  lamps  and 
bowls,  in  the  foundation  of  dwellings. 
This  was  probably  to  ward  of  the  **  evil 


eye, 


>» 


.     The     Drooz    of    Syria.      (Amer. 

Antiq.,  Chicago,  1904,  xxvi,  167-168.) 
Notes  on  beliefs,  etc.,  of  the  Druses  con- 
cerning the  origin  of  life,  transmigration 
of  souls,  etc. 

d'Enjoy  (P.)     De  la  legislation  chinoise 
^  regard  des  congregations  religieuses. 


148 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


(Bull.  Soc.  d'Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v« 
s.,  V,  154-157.)  Gives  the  French 
version  of  the  legislation  of  the  old 
Chinese  code  relative  to  the  Buddhist 
monks  and  monasteries,  for  comparison 
with  recent  edicts  of  the  French  Govern- 
ment concerning  the  Catholic  **  congre- 
gations." 

Foster  (J.  W.)  China.  (Nat.  Geogr. 
Mag.,  Wash.,  xv,  463-478,  2  maps.) 
Contains  some  notes  on  the  character  of 
the  Chinese  peoples. 

Gilbert  (O.)  Babylons  Gestimdienst, 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi. 
225-231,  2  fgs. )  Treats  of  the  stars  in 
Babylonian  mythology  and  religion, 
their  S3rmbolism  and  its  interpretation, 
combinations  of  deities,  double-heads, 
etc.  The  author  holds  that  these  em- 
blems are  all  per  se  symbols  of  deities, 
which  later  became  connected  with  and 
were  transferred  to  certain  chief  stars 
and  constellations.  The  stars  were 
always  subordinated  to  the  gods  and  not 
vice  versa. 

Goldziher  (I.)  Orientalische  Bauleg- 
ende.  (Ibid.,  95-96. )  Treats  of  the 
Persian  legend  of  the  building  of  the 
castle  of  Chawamak  by  the  Greek  ar- 
chitect Sinnim&r  in  the  fifth  century,  the 
country  palace  of  Sh&pur  I.  Connected 
with  this  legend  was  the  astrologer's 
verdict  that  the  King  would  lose  his 
kingdom  for  a  time  and  recover  it  only 
after  **  taking  golden  bread  fix>m  an  iron 
dish.  *  *  The  architect  escapes  the  King*  s 
attempt  to  destroy  him,  by  making  him- 
self wings  and  flying  away.  This  sug- 
gests the  classic  tale  of  Daedalus. 

▼on  Hahn  (C. )  Neues  Uber  die  Kurden. 
( Ibid.  ,31-32.)  R6sum6s  an  address  by 
A.  A.  Arkeljan  before  the  Geographical 
Society  of  Tiflis.  A.  maintains  that  the 
Kurds  are  a  very  mixed  race,  com- 
pounded of  Medes,  Mongols,  Tatars,' 
Armenians,  Turks,  Arabs,  etc.,  and  not 
a  somewhat  pure  Iranian  people  as  is 
generally  believed.  They  number  alto- 
gether about  1,000,000,  divided  into 
some  100  *' tribes,"  partly  nomadic, 
partly  half-nomadic  In  religion  they 
are  strict  Sunnites.  Divorce  is  easy, 
hospitality  a  sacred  duty,  theft  and  rob- 
bery works  of  valor. 

Harper  (R.  F.)  Exploration  and  dis- 
covery in  Babylonia.  (Am.  Antiq., 
Chicago,  1904,  XXVI,  177-179.)    Notes 


on  the  excavations  at  Bismya,  where 
large  ruins  exist,  from  whi<^  ridi  re- 
sults are  expected. 

Haa  (K. )  German  excavations  in  Baby- 
lon, 1901  and  1902.  (Rec  of  Fk^ 
Wash.,  1904,  III,  166-183,  6  fjgs).  De- 
scribes the  excavations  of  the  '*kasr" 
mound  and  the  remains  discovered  (clay 
sculptures,  cylinders,  glazed  tiles,  docu- 
ments found  in  coffins,  exploratioos  of 
the  temple,  palace,  fortifications,  etc). 
Among  the  finds  are  a  new  text  of  King 
Nabopolassar,  a  hjmn  to  Marduk,  etc 

German     excavations     in    Fan. 


(Ibid.,  233-243,  6  fgs.,  map.)  De- 
scribes investigations  of  1 902- 1903,  at 
Fara  and  Abu  Hatab.  R6sum6d  firan 
official  reports  of  the  German  Oriental 
Society. 

Hedin  (S.)  De  vetenskapliga  resnltaten 
af  min  sista  resa.  (Ymer,  Stkhlm., 
1 904»  XXIV,  237-258,  maps.)  R^sumis 
scientific  results  of  last  journey  in  central 
Asia,  1 899- 1 902,  which  are  to  appear  in 
English  in  six  volumes.  Of  great  inter* 
est  are  the  excavations  in  old  Lobnor. 

Hendenon  fA.  E.)  Survey  of  Cyziciu. 
(Rec.  of  Past,  Wash.,  1904,  iii,  355- 
364,  7  fgs.,  map. )  Describes  sitnatioo 
and  topography  of  the  ruins  of  Cyskns 
on  the  southern  shore  of  the  Sea  of  Mar- 
mora. The  chief  ruin  is  that  of  "the 
colossal  *  temple  of  Hadrian.' "  Others 
are  the  ''theater,'*  the  '  *  honey-maiden's 
palace,''  etc. 

Henning  (C.  L.)  Die  sumerische  Gnmd- 
lage  der  vorderasiatischen  Sch5pfangs- 
sage.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904, 
LXXXVI,  46-49,  58-61,  I  fg. )  Risumis 
the  recent  writings  of  Zimmem,  Tide, 
Radau,  etc- ,  particularly  the  last.  Radaa 
endeavors  to  prove  the  "Sumerian" 
origin  of  the  Babylonian  creation  myth, 
added  to  Tide's  opinion  (*'by  far  the 
greater  part  of  Babylonian  religious  ideas 
were  already  in  the  possession  of  the 
Sumerians"). 

Hervey  ( D.  F.  A. )  Malay  games.  (J. 
Anthr.  Inst.,  Lond.,  1903,  xxxiil,  284- 
304,  8  fgs. )  Describes  briefly  63  games, 
chiefly  children's,  and  mostly  as  plajred 
in  Malacca.  Some  of  these  games  re- 
semble :  Hide-and-seek,  Tom  Tiddler's 
Ground,  Oranges  and  Lemons,  French 
and  English,  Marbles,  Hopscotch,  Pitch 
and  Toss,  etc 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


149 


Janke  (A.^  Das  Schlachtfeld  am  Grani- 
kus.  (Ibid.,  129-133,  6  fgs.,  map. )  J. 
does  not  confirm  Kiepert's  opinion  as  to 
the  old  course  of  the  Granicus,  nor  his 
site  for  the  battle-field — the  lowest  course 
of  the  stream  has  most  in  its  favor. 

Joyce  (T.  A. )  On  the  physical  anthro- 
pology of  the  Oases  of  Khotan  and 
Keriya.  (J.  Anthr.  Inst.,  Lond.,  1903, 
XXXIII,  305-324,  2  pi.,  tables.)  Treats 
of  cephalic  nasal  and  facial  indices,  stat- 
ure, thickness  of  lips,  color  of  hair  and 
eyes,  etc.,  of  23  individuals  from  Khotan 
and  16  from  Keriya  measured  by  Dr  M. 
A.  Stein  during  his  recent  archeological 
investigation  in  Chinese  Turkestan.  The 
ethnic  affinities  of  these  people  are  dis- 
cussed at  some  length.  A  Turki  ele- 
ment has  probably  modified  the  Kho- 
tanese  more  than  the  Galchas,  whom 
they  much  resemble,  also  a  large  Tibetan 
admixture.  The  Keriya  have  a  larger 
Turki  element  and  perhaps  also  some 
Mongol.  Both  Khotanese  and  Keriya 
are  in  the  main  **  Aryan  "  and  descend- 
ants of  Lapouge's  Homo  alpinus. 

Kanten  (Paula)  Abbaji  Radscha  und 
sein  Schwager  Tinn&ll.  ( Globus,  Bms- 
chwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  138-140.)  Text 
in  German  of  a  Tamil  legend  of  TinnAll, 
a  sort  of  Oriental  Eulenspiegel. 

Lanfer  (B. )  Religidse  Toleranz  in  China. 
(Ibid.,  1904,  Lxxxv,  219-220.)  Criti- 
cizes somewhat  severely  J.  J.  M.  de 
Groot*s  recent  book  Sectarianism  and 
Religious  Persecution  in  China  (2 
vols.,  Amsterdam  :  1903- 1904),  which 
Dr  L.  considers  very  partial  and  often 
inexact,  and  unjust  in  suppressing  refer- 
ences to  edicts  of  toleration,  while  care- 
ful to  cite  all  intolerant  acts.  China 
never  burned  witches,  had  no  inquisition, 
and  never  destroyed  primitive  civiliza- 
tions. Any  Chinese  can  change  his  re- 
ligion at  will.  The  growth  of  Buddhist 
clericism  and  the  "dead  hand"  of  the 
church  are  dangers  to  China  as  similar 
conditions  have  been  in  Europe.  China 
has  tolerated  Buddhists,  Parsees,  Mani- 
cheans,  Mazdeans,  Nestorians,  Jews, 
and  Mohammedans  before  Christians  of 
to-day,  and  she  can  in  no  way  be  styled 
intolerant  and  religiously  bigoted. 

Lyle  (T.  H.)  Notes  on  the  ancient  pot- 
tery kilns  at  Sawankalok,  Siam.  (J. 
Anthr.  Inst.,  Lond.,  1903,  xxxiii,  238- 
245,  I  pi.,  4  fgs. )  Gives  results  of  ten 
days'    investigation  of  the   Sawankalok 


kilns  said  to  belong  to  the  time  of  King 
Phra  Roang  (fifth  or  sixth  century,  A. 
D. ),  and  the  pottery  found  there.  In  an 
appended  "note"  (pages  244-245)  Mr 
C.  H.  Read  points  out  that  Mr  Lyle's 
material  makes  it  certain  that  celadon 
ware  was  made  in  Siam  in  ancient  times 
in  considerable  quantity  and  of  a  kind 
closely  resembling  the  Chinese  kind. 

Meyer  (A.)  Tasch- Rabat.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1904,  LXXXVI,  41-45,  8 
fgs. )  R^sum^s  N.  N.  Pantusov's  article 
published  in  1902  on  the  ruins  of  Tasch- 
Rabat  on  the  Russo-Chinese  frontier 
(Kashgar  caravan  road),  the  remains  of 
a  Nestorian  monastery  —  these  monks 
were  already  in  central  Asia  by  the  7th 
century. 

Myres  (J.  L. )  The  early  pot-fabrics  of 
Asia  Minor.     (J.  Anthr.  Inst.,  Lond., 

1903,  XXXIII,  367-400,  4  pi.,  II  fgs.) 
Discusses  the  black  polished  fabric  of 
Hissarlik  and  its  homologues, —  Hissar- 
lik  is  "the  pier-head  of  Asia  toward 
S.  E.  Europe,  the  tHe  de  pant  of  Europe 
toward  N.  W.  Asia"  ;  the  red -faced  fab- 
ric of  Hissarlik  II  and  its  homologues  ; 
the  painted  style  of  Cappadocia  (distri- 
bution, fabrics,  forms,  ornament,  post- 
Mycenaean  and  Mycenaean  accretions, 
pre- Mycenaean  geometrical  residuum,  re- 
sidual Cappadocian  style),  a  Syro-Cappa- 
docian  promise  of  ceramic  art.  The  last 
the  author  argues  from  the  decorative  re- 
pertoire, the  lavish  use  of  red  paint,  the 
treatment  of  pot-surface,  etc. —  the 
white-ground  fabric  may  be  due  to  the 
local  occurrence  of  meerschaum, 

Niehns  (H. )  Die  Zuckerfabrikation  des 
indischen  Bauem.    (Globus,  Bmschwg., 

1904,  LXXXVI,  167-171,  7  fgs.)  De- 
scribes the  making  of  sugar  to-day  by  the 
Hindu  peasantry.  The  old  sugar- mill 
is  not  yet  extinct. 

Oppert  (G. )  Erinnerungen  an  Indien. 
(Ibid.,  249-252.)  Critique  of  Dr  Paul 
Deussen's  Erinnerungen  an  Indien 
(Kiel  u.  Leipzig,  1904).  Dr  O.  con- 
siders the  author  rather  unjust  and  un- 
sympathetic toward  the  English,  and 
instances  a  case  in  which  an  educated 
Brahman,  an  M.  A.,  did  not  consider  it 
wrong  for  a  judge  to  receive  money  from 
the  two  parties  to  a  cause,  provided  he 
returned  his  to  the  loser. 

Ranke  (H.)  Business  house  of  Murashu 
Sons  of  Nippur.     (Rec.  of  Past,  Wash. 


ISO 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


["• 


,7,  1905 


1904,  111,  364-374,  8  fgi.)     Risumit 

Rev.  A.  T.  Clay's  Business  DocumiHts 
of  Murasku  Sons  of  Nippur  (PhiU., 
1904),  which  treats  of  the  cuneiform 
Ubiets  (found  al  Nippur  in  1893)  re- 
Cording  the  business  transactions  (464- 
434  B.C.,  and  413-405  B.  C. )  of  a  finn 
of  that  city.  The  number  of  Aramaic 
indorsements  is  notable, —  Babylonian 
may  have  been  at  this  late  period  in  uje 
only  for  literary  and  legal  purpoica,  etc. 

Segnsnlt  (J. )  L'hygiine  chei  les  Chinois, 
(Kev.  Scienlif.,  Paris,  1904,  S'  s.,  11, 
582-585,617-620,651-655.)  Treatsof 
houses,  clothing,  food,  drink,  opium,  to- 
bacco (receol),  physical  exercise,  seT, 
childhood,  diseases  (particularly  small- 
poi),  death.  The  "comhinatioD  of  nat- 
ural science  and  general  hygiene  obscured 
by  superstition,"  which  passes  for  hygiene 
in  China,  is  ci\\^  fnung-choei,  "wind- 
water";  and  the  primitive  hygienist  is 
fouitg  ckoci  ti. 

▼on  RaitlenstBill  {frh. )  Die  Silbcrinscl 
bei Chinkiang.  (Globus,llmschwg.,t9a4, 
LXXXV],  317-21S,  I  {%.,  map.)  Notes 
on  the  former  summer  seal  of  the  Chinese 
imperial  family,  '■  Silver  Island"  in  the 
Yang-lse-kiang.  The  pagoda  of  the 
near-by  lawn  of  Chinkiang  is  the  subject 
of  legend. 

Ti«ws  of  Lluoa.  (Nat.  Gcogr.  Mag.. 
Wash.,  1905,  KVI,  27-38.)  Selected 
from  pictures  taken  bylbeBuriatTsibikov 
and  the  Kalmuck  Noriunov  on  their 
recent  visit  to  Tibet. 

WrieM  (F.  B.l  Ancient  caravan  routes 
ofChina.  { Rec.  of  Past,  Wash.,  1904, 
III,  163-166,  5  fgs.)  Brief  notes  on 
the  Nankin-Turfan-Kashgar-Kuldja,  and 
Pekin  -Urga-Kiakhta-  Baikal-Semipala- 
tinsk  caravan  routes,  the  Chinese  wall, 
etc 

INDONESIA.  AUSTRALASIA, 
POLYNESIA 

Bewotmer  (Die)  der  westlichen  Torres- 
strosse-Inselin.  (Globus,  Brnschvig., 
1904,  L.\sxvi,  177-181,3  fgs.)  R6- 
Sum£s  the  fifth  volume  of  the  Reports  of 
the  Anthropological  Kxpedition  to  1'orres 
Strait,  Soiiolegy,  /l/ofiV  and  Rr/ij;iiin 
of  the  Western  Islanders  (Cambridge, 
1904).     See  page  132. 

Dr  Heinrlch  Schnee'a  Buch  Uber  den  Bis- 
marckarchipel.  (Ibid.,  152-156,  6  fgs. ) 
Risumts   Dr  Schnee's   Bilder  aus   der 


SDdset  (Berlin,  1904),  which  treats 
chiefly  of  ethnr^raphic  matters.  The 
population  is  estimated  (rather  low)  at 
300.000,  many  losses  taking  place,  et- 
pedally  of  women  and  children,  through 
vengeance- feuds.  The  peoples  of  the 
Matty  and  Durour  islands,  where  cul- 
ture is  mi  generis,  Dr  S.  thinks,  pos- 
sess a  strain  of  Chinese  or  Japanese 
blood.  His  linguistic  map,  exclusive  of 
some  of  the  smaller  islands,  counts  9 
stocks,  from  Papuan-like  to  Polynesian. 
The  Manus  are  said  to  have  a  special 
word  for  10,000.  An  inter-island  system 
of  signals  by  smoke  and  fire  exists.  The 
Bismarck  Islanders  are  still  one  of  the 
wildest  peoples  of  the  Pacific,  and  can- 
nibalism is  prevalent  among  many  tribes. 
The  pile-dwellings  of  Mok  Mandrian, 
are  interesting.  The  dui-dut  of  Gaielle 
peninsula  is  an  importation  from  New 
Mecklenburg. 

Fruer  (J. )  Some  notes  on  the  ethnology 
of  the  New  Hebrides.  (Am.  Antiq., 
Chicago,  1904,  xxvt,  2S-31.)  Discusses 
the  origin  of  the  blacks  ("negroid,  not 
negro")  of  New  Hebrides,  etc.  Dr  F,, 
who  locates  the  "original  home  of  the 
undivided  human  family  "  in  a  "portion 
of  High  Asia,  to  (he  east  of  Mesopo- 
tamia," brings  the  negroes  into  Africa, 
Asia,  and  the  Pacific  islands  by  a  wide 
dispersion.  That  the  New  Hebrides 
black  is  negroid  is  due  to  race  intermix- 
ture—  three  streams  of  immigration  into 
these  islands  (Malay  the  lastj. 

Fnioess  (H.  F.,  3d)  The  stone  money 
of  Uap.  Western  Carolines.  (Trans. 
Depl.  Arch.,  Univ.  of  Penn.,  Phila., 
1904,  I,  51-60,  4  fgs.)  Describes  the 
fei  or  stone  money  (in  diameter  from  I 
to  12  feet)  of  L'ap  —  quarried  and  shaped 
400  miles  away  in  the  I'ttew  Is.,  and 
brought  thence  in  canoes  or  rafts.  No 
attribute  of  age  or  sacreilness  attaches 
to  them  and  Ihey  have  no  practical  or 
intrinsic  value.  Mr  ¥.  thinks  "they 
present  to  the  people  a  certain  visible 
and  tangible  amount  of  labor  expended 
in  their  production,"  are,  in  fact,  primi- 
tive "  certillcales  of  dc[iosil  of  work." 
Actual  ]x)ssession  on  one's  own  property 
is  not  neces.sary.  indeed  one  al  the  bot- 
tom of  the  sea  is  said  to  have  served  just 
OS  well,  its  linking  having  become  com- 

Hagen  (H.)  Die  Gajos  auf  Sumatra, 
(Globus.  Brnschwg.,  1904,  I.XXxvi,  24- 
30,   13  fgs.)     Physically  the  Cajos  are 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


151 


only  "grown  children,** — they  have  re- 
mained at  the  child-stage,  and,  with  the 
Alas,  represent  **the  old  primitive  or 
pre- Malay  population  of  Sumatra  more 
purely  and  less  mixed  than  the  Bataks.*' 
Their  pandanus-weaving  is  noteworthy. 
The  Bataks  show  a  more  advanced,  less 
fluctuating  culture  than  the  Gajos ;  other- 
wise there  are  close  resemblances  between 
them.  Close  relations  are  suggested  by 
Dr  H.  between  the  Toradjas  and  Toalas 
of  Celebes,  the  Veddas  and  even  some 
South  American  Indians.  References 
are  made  to  Dr  S.  Hurgronje's  book 
Het  Gajoland  en  zijne  bewoners  ( Batavia, 

1903)- 

Krimer  (A.)  Der  Wert  der  Siidseekeulen 
fUr  Vdlkerbeziehungen.  ( Ibid.  ,125-128, 
3  fgs. )  Describes  three  clubs,  —  from 
Tutuila  (Samoa),  from  Fiji,  and  from  a 
grave  at  Truxillo,  Peru,  the  last  **  thor- 
oughly Tongan  **  in  form  and  ornament 
South  Pacific  clubs  have  been  reported 
also  from  Alaska,  etc.  These  are  all 
probably  incidental  imports.  The  rela- 
tions between  the  Spaniards  in  Peru  and 
the  Pacific  islands  might  account  for  the 
Truxillo  club. 

Xathews  (R.  H.)  Languages  of  the 
Kamilaroi  and  other  aboriginal  tribes  of 
New  South  Wales.  (J.  Anthr.  Inst., 
Lond.,  1903,  XXXIII,  259-283. )  Gives 
granmiatical  sketches  of  the  Kamilaroi 
and  Darkifiung  languages,  with  notes  on 
the  Yuan  (a  mystic  tongue  used  in  the 
Bora  ceremonies),  the  Wallarai,  Wir- 
raiarai  and  Guinbrai  dialects,  a  vocabulary 
of  some  900  words  of  the  Kamilaroi  and 
Thurrawal  tongues.  App>ended  are  also 
notes  on  some  native  tribes  of  Victoria, 
S.  Australia,  and  Queensland.  The 
Kamilaroi  has  an  inclusive  and  exclusive 
plural  of  the  first  personal  pronouns. 

Language  des  Kurnu,  tribu  d' indi- 
genes de  la  Nouvelle  Galles  du  Sud. 
(Bull.  Soc.  d' Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v« 
s.,  V,  132-138.)  R6sum6  of  the  gram- 
mar of  the  Kurnu,  an  Australian  tribe  on 
the  river  Darling  in  New  South  Wales. 
The  pronouns  have  certain  special 
features. 

Meyer  (A.  B. )  Alte  SUdseegegenstlnde 
in  Amerika.  (Globus,  Brnschwg.,  1904, 
LXXXVi,  202-203,  I  fg. )  Brief  notes 
on  a  <*Samoan  club*'  from  Peru  and  a 
mask  from  Atacama,  the  South  Pacific 
origin  of  which  is  probably  post-Colum- 
bian.    See  Kramer. 


und  Richter  (O. )    Das  indonesische 

Webgestell.  (Ibid.,  172,  i  fg.)  Gives 
a  more  exact  figure  of  the  Indonesian 
weaving-apparatus.     See  previous  title. 

.      Ethnographische     Miszel- 

len  II.  (Abhandl.  u.  Ber.  d.  K. 
Zool.  u.  Anthr. -Ethn.  Mus.  zu  Dres- 
den, 1903,  X,  Nr.  6,  viii  -|-  102,  4  pi., 
'  I  o  fgs. )  Treats  of  spirit-traps  in  the 
East  Indian  archipelago  (1-7)}  brass 
shields  from  the  Moluccas  (8-15),  brass 
breast-plate  from  the  Moluccas  (16-18), 
weaving-apparatus  from  the  East  Indies, 
particularly  Gorontalo  in  North  Celebes 
( 19-67),  Kain  Bintinany  or  cloths 
from  the  island  of  Bentenan  ;  the  bronze 
age  in  Celebes,  rings,  ornaments, 
weapons, —  prehistoric  and  historic  (72- 
91),  the  stone  age  in  Celebes  (92-102). 
The  "soul-traps"  are  of  two  chief 
types,  the  "cage**  and  the  "boat.** 
The  prototype  of  the  brass-shields  is  to 
be  found  in  the  northern  Moluccas,  but 
they  are  probably  to  be  traced  back  to 
the  Spanish  immigrants,  though  indige- 
nous origin  is  not  yet  excluded  by  the 
evidence.  The  data  do  not  allow  one 
to  dogmatize  as  to  the  origin  of  Malay- 
sian weaving, —  it  may  have  been  of  in- 
digenous origin  or  have  spread  later  from 
the  Asiatic  continent  through  Hindu  in- 
fluences. The  bronze  remains  seem  to 
indicate  the  former  existence  of  a  pre- 
historic copper  or  bronze  culture  (last 
relics  of  primitive  Malay  bronze  culture) 
more  or  less  repressed  by  iron,  etc., — 
this  bronze  culture  was  of  Indian  origin. 
Fetishistic  use  of  stone  implements  is 
reported  from  various  regions  of  Celebes; 
also  "holystone  stocks."  Stone  axes 
(except  those  found  by  the  Sarasins  in 
the  caves  of  the  Toalas)  have  always 
served  previously  for  amulets.  Evi- 
dences of  a  former  stone  age  are  numer- 
ous in  Celebes. 

Parkinson  ( R. )  Tatowierung  der  Moge- 
mokinsulaner.  (Globus,  Brnschwg., 
1904,  LXXXVI,  15-17,  3  fgs.)  Accord- 
ing to  P.  the  statement  of  Kubary  that 
the  Yap  tattooing  is  found  on  Mogemok 
("Mackenzie  Islands")  is  not  quite 
correct,  as  there  are  notable  differences 
as  well  as  resemblances.  The  tattooing 
of  the  women,  while  simpler,  is  very 
characteristic.  The  Mogemok  tattooing 
is  in  some  respects  like  that  of  Nuku- 
manu  and  Liueniua.  The  men's  tattoo- 
ing has  considerable  variation. 


IS2 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


Schmidt  (W.)      Eine   Fspuasprache  auf   | 
Neupommein.    (Ibid.,  79-So.  )    A  dose 
stud;  of   tbe  Sulka  language  of   New   1 
Britain,  according  to  Father  S.,  makes  it 
Papuan  in  character.     Papuooid  features   . 
occur  in  the  pemMwl  pronoun,  possessive,    1 
nouD,  adjective,  numeral,  and  verb.   The    I 
numeral  system  is  of  the   two-root  nnd 
partly  of  die  quinary-vcgesimal-     S.  ci-    1 
pects  to  Riid  other  more  01   less  Papuan    I 
languages  farther  south  and  also   in  the   , 
Solomon  islands. 

Seldel    (H. )     Tobi   in    Westmikronesien   ' 
eine   deutsche    Insel   mit  acht  Namen.    j 
(Ibid.,  13-ISO     The  proper  appellation    ' 
of  this  manf-named  island  seems  to  be 
"  Tobi,"  the  Kadogube  of  Kobary  is  of   1 
uncertain  origin.    The  natives  of  Tobi  in 
1832   were  fierce  savages  wbo  enslaved 
and  ill-treated  shipwrecked  sailors. 

Saipan,  die  Hauptinsel  derdeutschen 

Marianen.      ( Ibid.,    178-zSz. )      Con- 

ChamoTTOs  and  their  history  (the  island    , 
was  resettled  in  1815,  after  the  original 
inhabitants    had    been    eitenninated   01    1 
transported  by  the  Spaniards). 
TaU  (M.)     Rondelle  percie  en  coquille, 
Nouveiles-Hebrides,     (Bull.  Soc.  d'An- 
thr.    de    Paris,    1904,  V"    S.,    V,    II5.) 
Brief  description  of  a  shell  breast  orna- 
ment of  the  native  chiefs  of  the  New 
Hebrides.      Some  similar  objects    found 
in  the  prehistoric  "stations"  of  western 
Europe  were  probably  worn  in  the  same 

AMERICA 

Buber  (E.  A.)     The  ceramic   literature 
of  the  Pennsylvania  Germans.      [Proc. 
Num.  and  Antiq.  Soc.  of  Phila.,  190Z- 
1903  [1904],  83-98,  6  fgs.)      Under  the 
heads  of  humor,  superstitions,  philoso- 
phy,  questionable  inscriptions,  history, 
sentiment,    eating,  religion,  the   author   1 
gives    English  translations  of  numerous    I 
inscriptions  on    si  ip-decorHted    earthen- 
ware, mainly  in  the  superb  collection  of  1 
the  Pennsylvania  Museum,  which  perpel-    I 
uateproverbsand^oimfolk-lore-     This    1 
"  curious  phase  of  the  potters  art  flour- 
ished in  eastern  Pennsylvania  for  nearly 
a  century  and  a  half" — -its  existence 
was  an  accidental  discovery  some  10  years 
ago. 

BeanrolS  (B. )  La  Crande-Irland  ou  pays 
de  blancs  pricolombiens  du  Nouveau- 
Monde.  (J.  Soc.  d.  Amir,  de  Paris,  1904, 


N,  s.,  1,  189-319,  map.)  Historical  and 
critical  study  of  the  evidence  as  to  the 

existence  and  location  of  the  Hvitra- 
mannalandt^ ' '  white  man's  land  " )  of  the 
Icelandic  sagas.  The  author,  who  ac- 
cepts the  "  evidence,"  places  ^is  r^ion 
up  the  St.  Lawrence  "near  modem 
Quebec,  which  may  have  been  the  capital 
of  the  Gaelic  colony,  as  it  was  later  of 
New  France." 

Bomon  (E. )  Groupes  de  tumulus  pr6- 
hispaniques  dans  la  valine  de  Lerma, 
RipubliqueArgenline.  (L'HommePri- 
hist.,  Paris,  1904,  11.  extr.,  pp.  i-il, 
5  fgs, )  Describes  briefly  the  tutnnlos  i^ 
Pucari  de  Lenna  —  group  A  contains 
1047  tumuli,  group  B  158,  and  group 
C  463— in  all  1168.  The  investiga- 
tions of  the  author  were  made  in  1901 
and  1903.  These  lumuli  appear  to  ha»e 
been  constructed  and  grouped  according 
to  lines  previously  adopted.  They  are 
undoubtedly  of  Indian  (Calchaqui?) 
origin,  but  are  not  grave-mounds,  nor 
hut. foundations ;  they  may  be  garden- 
mounds  or  ceremonial  seats. 

Cutells  (F.  De  P. )     The  ruins  of  Indian 

Church  in  British  Honduras.  (Am.  An- 
liq.,  Chicago,  1904.  xxvi,  32-37.  ^  fg».) 
Describes  "temple,"  etc.,  at  Indiait 
Church,  a  mahogany-cutter  settlement 
in  northern  Belize  —  the  Indian  name 
Ichinihiih  is  said  to  be  an  imitation  of 
the  English,  but  more  likely  vice  vtrsa. 
These  ruins  may  be  of  considerable  im- 
portance for  Mayan  archeoli^.  At  the 
mouth  of  New  river  are  the  ruins  of 
Santa  Rita.  Indian  Church  is  on  the 
way  to  Yaxhaa  lake,  where  other  ruins 

Chaniay  (D. )  I^s  explorations  de  Tto- 
bert  Maler.  (J.  Soc.  d.  Amftric  de  Paris, 
1904,  N.  s.,  I,  289-308,  2  fgs. )  Critique 
ofVleXtT's  Reiearfieiin  l/id  Usumasinfla 
ru//(i',i898-i900(  Memoirs  Peab-Mus., 
vol.  It,  1901-1903).  Chamay  objects  to 
the  name  Yaxchilan  for  "Lorillard  City" 
and  to  certain  spellings,  the  use  of  the 
term  acropolis  (there  are  no  fortresses  in 
"Anahuac").  He  agrees  with  Maler 
that  Palcnque  was  in  existence  at  the 
time  of  the  Spanish  conquest,  but  thinks 
that  itwas  Tayasal  where  Corlez  slopped 
in  1534.  C.  considers  Copan  the  junction 
of  two  branches  of  the  same  civilization. 
The  oldest  monuments,  according  to  C, 
date  from  the  nth  century  at  Comalcalco; 
the  latest  (middle  of  17th  century)  are  at 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


153 


Tajrasal.  The  whole  Yucatecan  civiliza- 
tion is  thus  quite  modem  and  **  has 
nothing  to  do  with  the  fossil  horse  and 
the  Abb6  Brasseur's geologic  epochs.'' 

Chithero  (T.)  Site  of  Mascouten  redis- 
covered. (Am.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1904, 
XXVI,  84-8)8. )  Author  argues  that  the 
Mascoutenof  Marquette  ( 1673),  AUouez, 
and  other  early  explorers  and  writers, 
located  by  Dablon,  in  1675,  <*in  the 
midst  of  a  terrestrial  paradise,"  was 
situated  in  Seymour's  valley  at  the  head 
of  Mud  lake  on  the  banks  of  the  Run- 
ning Swan,  as  evidenced  by  archeolog- 
ical  remains  and  the  ruins  of  fortiBcations, 
etc.  The  Mascoutens  are  identified  with 
the  Gens  du  Feu  or  **  Fire  Indians." 

Dana  (C.  £.)  Fitch  and  his  predecessors 
in  steam-navigation.  (Proc.  Num.  and 
Antiq.  Soc  of  Phila.,  1902-1903  [1904], 
47-82,  4  pi.)  3  iigs. )  Interesting  illus- 
trated account  of  the  beginning  of  the 
steamboat  in  America,  Pennsylvania  in 
particular. 

Kzploration  of  Jacob's  Cavern.  (Rec.  of 
Fast,  Wash.,  1904,  ill,  347-35 >»  2  fjgs.) 
Risnm^s  account  given  by  C.  Peabody 
and  W.  K.  Moorehead  in  Bull.  /,  Dept, 
of  Arch,,  Phillips  Academy  (1904). 
Jacob's  cavern ,  in  the  limestone  region  of 
the  Ozark  uplift,  contained  traces  of 
human  occupancy  (six  burials,  flint  im- 
plements, thousands  of  flint  flakes,  split 
bones,  etc. ) .  The  antiquity  of  man' s  resi - 
dence  is  suggested  by  the  type  of  imple- 
ments, pictographs,  etc.  The  cave  man 
here  was  not  the  Osage  Indian,  nor  the 
present  tribes  of  the  lower  Mississippi. 

Exploration  (The)  of  the  Potter  Creek 
cave,  California.  (Ibid.,  275-282,  2 
fgs. )  R^sum^  from  the  monograph  of 
W.  J.  Sinclair  (q.  v. ) 

Fischer  (H.)  Eine  altemexikanische 
Steinfigur.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904, 
LXXXV,  445-348,  5  fgs).  Describes  a 
nephritoid  stone  figure  of  Quetzalcoatl, 
the  wind-god  (partly  represented  as  a 
skeleton),  now  in  the  Stuttgart  Museum. 
In  the  various  parts  of  the  figure  are 
many  S3rmbols.  The  back  has  the  sun- 
disc,  Tonatiuh,  etc. 

FOrBtemann  (£. )  Die  Stela  J.  von  Copan. 
(Ibid.,  361-363,  2  fgs.)  F.  concludes 
that  this  stele,  dating  from  1496-15 10, 
relates  to  the  app>earance  on  the  coast  of 
unknown  foreigners.  Comparison  is 
suggested  with  the  inscription  of  Piedras 


Negras  of  about  the  same  date,  which 
resembles  Stela  J  in  many  respects. 

Gold  plates  and  figures  from  Costa  Rica. 
(Rec.  of  Past,  Wash.,  1904,  ill,  282- 
286,  4  fgs. )  Notes  on  a  collection  from 
ancient  tombs  in  central  Costa  Rica, 
made  by  Don  Juan  Lau  Don  and  now  in 
the  possession  of  Mr  G.  C.  Dissette,  of 
Glenville,  Ohio.  The  workmanship  is 
fine  and  the  carving  delicate.  The  bells 
have  little  clappers  of  gold.  The  small 
animal  figures  are  skilfully  designed. 

Gordon  (G.  B. )  Chronological  sequence 
in  the  Maya  Ruins  of  Central  America. 
(Trans.  Dept.  Archeol.,  Univ.  of  Penn., 
1904,  I,  61-66.)  From  archeological 
evidence  (decorative  designs,  conditions 
of  formations  of  ruined  buildings,  in  par- 
ticular), Dr  G.  argues  that  **the  earliest 
unquestioned  date  is  one  found  at  Copan. 
The  movement  from  south  to  north  (Co- 
pan  to  Chichen  Itza)  covered  alx>ut 
three  centuries.  Maya  culture  developed 
in  the  region  in  which  its  remains  have 
been  found.  Doubtless  dates  earlier  and 
later  than  those  now  known  will  be  dis- 
covered. 

Gnnn  (J.  M. )  History  of  the  pueblos  of 
Laguna  and  Acoma.  (Rec.  of  Past, 
Wash.,  1904,  III,  291-310,  323-344, 
7  6gs. )  Rdsum^s  old  Spanish  explor- 
er's accounts,  etc.,  the  struggles  with 
the  invaders,  etc.  At  pages  330-337 
some  of  the  native  traditions  as  to  the 
origin  of  these  pueblos  are  given.  Their 
history  since  cession  to  the  United  States 
in  1848  is  stated  in  brief  and  the  proph- 
ecy of  She-ake,  to  which  Coronado  is 
here  said  to  have  alluded,  referred  to  as 
having  been  now  fulfilled.  The  author 
spoils  the  effect  of  his  paper  by  asking  if 
the  Queres  Indians  might  not  be  refugees 
from  Tyre  after  the  conquest  by  Alex- 
ander, etc. 

Humbert  (J.)  *'L' archive"  du  consulat 
de  Cadiz  et  le  commerce  de  l'Am6rique. 
(J.  Soc.  d.  Am6ric.,  de  Paris,  1904,  N. 
s.,  I,  231-236.)  Describes  the  archives 
of  Cadiz  relating  to  American  trade, 
1558-1815. 

La  premiere  occupation  allemande 

du  V6n6zu61a  au  xvi*  si^cle,  p^riode  dite 
des  Welser,  1 528-1 556.  (Ibid.,  309- 
320. )  Sketches  the  history  of  the  Ger- 
man colonists  Ynguer,  Sayler,  the  Wel- 
ser, etc.,  in  Venezuela  1528-1556. 


154 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


Ln.  s.,  7,  1905 


Immigration  (Our)  during  1904.  (Nat 
Ge<^.  Mag.,  Wash.,  1905,  xvi,  15-27, 
8  figs.)  R^sumis  Report  of  Commis- 
sioner General  of  Immigration  Peck. 
The  <<  racial/'  classification  is  into  Teu- 
tonic, "Iberic,"  Celtic,  Slavic,  Mon- 
golic,  etc. 

ten  Kate  (H.)  Anthropologische  Publi- 
kationen  aus  La  Plata.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  268.)  Brief 
notes  on  three  recent  publications  of  Dr 
Lehmann-Nitsche  treating  of  arthritis 
deformans  in  andent  Patagonians, 
brachyphalangia^  and  "mortar  holes'* 
in  rodcs  of  the  Sierra  de  C6rdoba. 

Kroeber  (A.  L.)  The  languages  of  the 
coast  of  California  south  of  Siim  Francisco. 
(Univ.  of  Calif.  Public,  Amer.  Arch, 
and  Ethn.,  Berkeley,  1904,  11,  29-80.) 
Treats  phonetic,  grammatic,  and  lexical 
characters  of  Chumash,  Salinan,  Esselen, 
and  Costanoan.  Chumash  and  Salinan, 
while  not  genetically  related,  constitute  a 
morphological  group.  Another  such  group 
is  formed  by  E^sselen  and  Costanoan.  The 
only  continuous  text  obtained  was  in 
Costanoan.  Chumash  has  an  article, 
tna^  and  Salinan  a  plural  in  verbs.  Es- 
selen has  case-suffixes.  Costanoan  has 
preposed  particles,  but  no  suffixes.  This 
article  will  be  welcome  to  the  students  of 
American  Indian  comparative  philology 
by  reason  of  the  accuracy  of  its  data  and 
the  real  information  it  conveys. 

Types  of  Indian  culture  in  Cali- 
fornia. (Ibid.,  81-103.)  Discusses 
briefly  habitat,  food,  dwellings,  arts, 
social  organization,  ceremonies,  shaman- 
ism, mythology,  culture-hero,  origin  and 
creation  myths,  etc. 

d0  La  Grasserie  (R. )  Les  langues  de 
Costa- Rica  et  les  idiomes  apparent^s. 
(J.  Soc.  d.  Am^ric.  de  Paris,  1904,  n.  s., 
I,  153-187. )  Gives  grammatical  sketches 
of  Bribri,  Terraba,  Brunca,  Guatuso, 
Chibcha,  Cuna,  Koggaba ;  tables  of  re- 
semblances in  numerals,  personal  pro- 
nouns, substantives,  etc.,  —  after  Uhle, 
Thiel,  Pittier,  etc. ;  phonetic  rules ;  com- 
parative vocabulary  (pp.  183-187)  of 
Bribri,  Cabecar,  Terraba,  Brunca,  Gua- 
tuso, Chibcha,  Dorasque,  Guaymi,  Cuna. 
All  these  languages,  with  certain  others, 
make  up  one  stock,  which  ought  to  be 
called  Chibchan. 

Lejeal  ( L. )  Un  petit  probUme  de  th^olo- 
gie Mixicaine.  (Ibid.,  257-361.)  Treats 


of  Centeotl,  «the  Aztec  Ceres,"  and  her 
cult  The  author  inquires  why  a  pacific 
and  joyous  cult  (that  of  fecundity  and 
the  perpetuation  of  life)  came  to  be  de- 
formed and  degenerate.  Beside  a  more 
primitive  (Toltec  and  Totonac)  Centeotl 
existed  another  (Aztec)  with  sanguinary 
rites. 

Explorations  et  dicouvertes  dans  les 


regions  Andines.  (Ibid.,  262-265.) 
Notes  on  the  expeditions  of  MM.  Rivet, 
de  Cr6qui,  Montfort,  Granger,  etc  See 
Rivet, 

L' exposition  de  la  Mission  Fran^mise 


de  r  Am^rique  du  Sud  au  Palais  da  Tro- 
cad^ro.  (Ibid.,  321-328,  2  pi.)  Con- 
tains brief  notes  on  Uie  excavations  in 
Argentina,  Tiahuanaco,  Tarija  (pottery), 
etc 

McSweeny  (Z.  F.)  The  character  of  oar 
immigration,  past  and  present  (Nat 
Geogr.  Mag.,  Wash.,  1905,  xvi,  1-15, 
chart. )  Discusses  world-migrations,  early 
American  immigration,  immigration  dur- 
ing 19th  century,  immigrants  from  Italy, 
Austria-Hungary  and  Russia,  the  Finns, 
Greeks  and  Syrians,  the  Chinese,  blend- 
ing of  the  ** American"  race,  effects  of 
unchecked  immigration,  contract-labor 
law,  the  examination  of  immigrants,  etc 
Author  takes  optimistic  view  of  ability 
ot  America  to  receive  and  make  over  her 
immigrants.  The  ** toughest  problem" 
is  presented  by  the  Syrians. 

Marcel  (G.)  Un  texte  ethnographique 
inedit  du  xviii«  sidcle.  (J.  Soc  d. 
Am6ric.  de  Paris,  1904,  N.  s.,  I,  133— 
151.)  Gives  text  of  MS.  (rtf.  1787)  by 
a  surgeon  named  La  Croix  containing 
notes  on  the  Indians  of  French  Guiana 
at  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century  — 
physical  characters,  clothing,  religion, 
marriage  (the  couvade  is  described  bat 
not  named),  festivals,  arms,  chiefs,  etc.). 
The  author  notes  the  existence  of  a 
jargon  for  intercommunication  between 
Indians  and  Europeans. 

L' inscription  du  Rupunumi.     (Ibid., 


387-390,  I  fg. )  Describes  the  curious 
*'  inscription,"  which  includes  a  number 
of  European  letters,  said  to  have  been 
found  by  Nicholas  Horstman  in  1739. 
It  is  probably  of  Europ>ean  ( Portuguese  ?) 
origin. 

Moorehead  (W.  K. )  Some  unknown 
forms  of  stone  objects.  ( Rec  of  Past, 
Wash.,     1904,    III,    268-274,   9    %5.) 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


155 


Treats  of  finished  and  unfinished  objects 
of  the  "winged-perforated"  class.  Mr 
M.  thinks  reed  drills  were  preferred  to 
those  of  flint  or  bone.  Other  curved 
stone  objects  are  figured  and  described 
—  the  "bird**  and  "butterfly"  types, 
etc.  The  author's  plea  for  Latin  names 
ought  not  to  be  heard. 

Morioe  (A.  G.  j  Du  lac  Stuart  ^  TOc^an 
Padfique.  (Bull.  Soc  Neuch&t.  de 
G^ogr.,  1 904,  XV,  32-80,  2  fgs.,  map.) 
Contains  notes  on  the  Indian  names  of 
lakes  and  rivers  (pp.  53-56),  and  on  the 
Dini  Indiansof  the  country  traversed. 

Peet  (S.  D.)  Comparison  of  the  codices 
with  the  ordinary  pictographs.  (Am. 
Antiq.,  Chicago,  1904,  xxvi,  137-152, 
9  %s. )  Cites  evidence  to  show  that  "  to 
Uiose  who  have  become  familiar  with  the 
pictographs  and  other  symbols  which  are 
still  common  among  the  uncivilized  tribes, 
there  is  a  very  close  connection  between 
them,  and  both  treat  of  the  same  sub- 
ject,"—  calendars  and  religious  cere- 
monies chiefly. 

The    suastika  and   fire  worship  in 

America.  (Ibid.,  185-192,  4  fgs.) 
Treats  chiefly  of  die  Navaho  fire-dance 
and  the  Aztec  "  new  fire." 


making  her  capable  of  the  production  of 
new  vegetation.  Out  of  the  sacrifice 
of  gods  came  that  of  man. 

—   Der  XIV.  Internationale  Amerikan- 


—  The  ethnography  of  art  in  America. 
(Ibid.,  201-224,  21  fgs.)  General  dis- 
cussion of  sculptured  art,  ethnographic 
districts,  graphic  arts,  picture-writing, 
symbolic  figures  and  hieroglyphs,  per- 
sonal decorations  and  ornaments,  jew- 
elry, basketry,  musical  instruments,  etc. 

Archeological  researches   in   Costa 


Rica.  (Ibid.,  249-256,  13  fgs.)  Based 
on  C.  V.  Hartman's  Archeological  Re- 
searches in  Costa  Rica  (Stockholm, 
1904),  which  it  rdsum^s  in  part. 

The  red  men  of  Brazil.     (Ibid.,  41- 


46,  2  fgs. )     Ethnographic  notes  based  on 
a  recent  work  of  Rev.  Hugh  C.  Tucker. 

Preuss  (K.  Th.)  Der  Ursprung  der 
Menschenopfer  in  Mexico.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  108-119,  i 
fjg. )  Treats  of  the  renewing  of  the  sun 
ana  fire  gods,  the  death  of  the  deities 
of  rain  and  vegetation,  the  origin  of  god- 
sacrifice,  etc.  The  festivals  of  the  sun 
and  fire  gods  are  for  the  most  part  a  re- 
newal of  the  sun  by  killing  a  deity  and 
the  spring  and  harvest  festivals  a  bloody 
rejuvenation  of  the  spring-god  and  the 
old  harvest-mother,  for  the  purpose  of 


istenkongress  in  Stuttgart,  18.  bis  23. 
August  1904.  (Ibid.,  199-202.)  Good 
r^sum^s  of  proceedings  and  chief  papers 
presented. 

Prince  ( L.  B. )  The  stone  lions  of  Cochiti. 
(Rec.  of  Past,  Wash.,  1904,  ill,  151- 
160,  2  figs. )  Describes  what  the  author 
calls  **  the  most  important  specimen  of 
aboriginal  sculpture  in  the  United 
States,"  and  thejpueblo  to  which  these 
lions  belonged.  The  tale  of  its  destruc- 
tion by  fire  is  also  given.  The  lions  face 
the  east,  "  a  fact  no  doubt  having  sym- 
bolic significance."  They  have  sufiered 
from  the  vandalism  of  ignorant  herdsmen. 
The  author  compares  the  enclosure  of 
Stonehenge,  etc. 

Reid  ( W.  M. )  Mohawk  pottery.  ( Ibid. , 
184-188,  4  pi. )  Treats  of  the  pottery 
of  the  Mohawk  valley  —  the  author's 
collection  includes  65  decorated  frag- 
ments of  as  many  diflerent  vessels.  In 
the  sand  on  the  shore  of  Lake  Pleasant 
was  foimd  recently  a  whole  pot  of  large 
size  —  this,  the  Hanson,  the  Richmond, 
and  the  Horrack  pots  were  all  found  in 
the  Adirondack  region. 

Riyet  (Dr)  Le  "huicho"  des  indiens 
Colorados.  (Bull.  Soc.  d'  Anthr.  de 
Paris,  1904,  v«  s.,  v,  116-117. )  Notes 
on  the  huicho  of  the  Colorado  Indians  of 
western  Ecuador,  a  deadly  disease  char- 
acterized by  an  irresistible  tendency  to 
sleep.  The  Colorados'  method  of  cur- 
ing it  is  "an  ethnographic  curiosity." 
One  ingredient  is  human  urine.  Iluicho 
may  have  analogies  with  the  well-known 
African  *  *  sleeping-sickness. "  It  attacks 
foreign  Indians  and  whites  first,  then  the 
Colorados. 

Les  Indiens  de  Mallasquer :  Etude 

ethnologique.  (Ibid.,  144-152. )  Treats 
briefly  of  environment,  dwellings,  cloth- 
ing, agriculture  (banana,  sugar-cane, coca, 
yucca,  maize  and  several  fruits,  including 
fine  pineapples),  domestic  animals  (cat- 
tle), and  fowls,  food  (banana  chief 
basis),  drink  [guarapoy  fermented  sugar- 
cane juice),  coca-chewing  (from  the  age 
of  7  years  up),  trade  and  commerce 
(children  of  5-6  are  already  porters), 
dysentery  ( as  fatal  and  as  feared  as  small- 
pox), chiefs,  marriage  (curious  "civil" 


156 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


ceremony),  priests  (the  coming  of  the 
priest  of  Cumbal  is  the  event  of  the 
year),  **priostes'*  (the  Indians  who 
pay  for  the  festivals,  etc.).  These  In- 
dians are  Catholic  in  name  only  and 
they  are  more  affected  by  the  maleficent 
vuja  of  their  pagan  past  than  by  all  the 
ntYf  figures  of  Christianity.  On  pages 
150-15 1  are  given  the  chief  anthropo- 
metrical  data  of  6  individuals,  all  male. 
The  cephalic  index  is  generally  brachy- 
cephalic.  Mallesquer  is  in  northern  Equa- 
dor,  west  of  the  Cordillera. 

Schmidt  ( M. )  Aus  den  Ergebnissen  meiner 
Expedition  in  das  Schingi!iquellgebiet. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi, 
1 19-125,  16  fgs.)  Treats  of  omament- 
motifs  (fire-fans,  wall-friezes,  etc.)  of 
the  Bakairi.  Also  maize  straw  and  cob 
figures  of  animals,  pencil-drawings  of 
animals,  etc.,  including  several  of  the 
author,  to  whom  the  native  artists  as- 
signed some  Indian  characteristics.  Some 
of  the  wall-frieze  patterns  were  said  by 
the  Indians  to  refer  to  marks  on  tor- 
toises, snakes,  etc.  The  wall-frieze  pat- 
terns are  related  to  those  of  the  fire-fans. 

Simmons  (H.  J.)  Human  bones  found 
near  Galveston.  (Am.  Antiq.,  Chicago, 
1904,  XXVI,  122-123.)  Notes  on  re- 
mains (bones,  pottery  sherds,  beads) 
found  in  shell  and  sand  deposits  in  the 
ballast  pits  on  the  railroad  near  Galves- 
ton, Texas.  One  layer  of  bones  was 
found  3  feet  below  the  surface,  another 
at  sea-level  about  20  feet  below  the  sur- 
face. A  very  large  number  of  skulls 
were  discovered.  The  steam  shovel  em- 
ployed destroyed  very  many. 

Sinclair  (W.  J. )  The  exploration  of  the 
Potter  Creek  cave.  (Univ.  Calif.  Publ., 
Amer.  Arch,  and  Ethnol.,  Berkeley, 
1904,  II,  1-27,  12  pi.)  Describes  cave 
and  contents,  rediscovered  in  1902,  the 
first  Califomian  cave  to  be  systematically 
excavated  and  explorated,  1 902- 1 903. 
No  human  bones  wttt  founds  but  certain 
implement  like  bone  fragments  may  be 
human  artifacts,  —  these  polished  pieces 
of  bone  "closely  resemble  many  of  the 
rough  implements  from  the  shell-mounds 
of  California.''  The  cave  fauna  is  not 
too  old  to  negative  contemporaneity 
with  man. 

Smith  (H.  I.)  The  archeology  of  the 
Dakotas.  (Rec.  of  Past,  Wash.,  1904, 
III,  220-221.)  Notes  on  shell  rings 
from  neck  of  skeleton  (from  grave  in  the 


Turtle  mountains)  now  in  the  American 
Museum  of  Natural  History  (N.  \, ),  and 
other  Dakota  relics. 

The  cairns  or  stone  sepulchers  of 


British  Columbia  and  Washington. 
( Ibid.,  243-254,  5  fgs.,  map. )  R^sum^ 
from  H.  I.  Smith  and  G.  Fowke*s  Cairns 
of  Briti  h  Columbia  and  Washington 
(Mem.  "^Amer.  Mus.  Nat  Hist.,  N.  Y. 
1 901,  IV,  pt.  11). 

Shell  heaps  of  the  lower  Eraser  river, 


British  Columbia.  ( Am.  Antiq. ,  Chicago, 
1904,  XXVI,  235-236. )  Notes  from  a 
paper  printed  in  the  Memoirs  of  the 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History, 

A  Michigan  earth-work  and  its  im- 


pending loss.  (Ibid.,  121-122. )  Brief 
account  of  a  prehistoric  earthwork  in 
Ogemaw  co.,  probably  a  fort,  with  plea 
for  its  preservation  by  the  public 

▼on  den  Steinen  (K. )  Ausgrabungen  an 
der  Valenciasee.  (Globus,  Bmschwg., 
1904,  LXXXVI,  101-108,  29  figs.)  I>e-. 
scribes  the  excavations  of  1903  near  Lake 
Valencia,  Venezuela,  made  by  A.  Jahn 
for  the  Berlin  Museum, —  the  finds  in- 
cluded 32  skulls,  140  stone  implements, 
more  than  100  clay  objects,  28  neck 
charms,  and  many  ornaments  and  frag- 
ments of  pottery.  The  culture  reveal^ 
is  a  type  of  pre-Columbian  stone  age,  and 
the  number  of  tumuli  and  urns  discovered 
indicate  that  in  these  cerritos  were  buried 
a  series  of  generations.  Noteworthy  is 
a  little  clay  pot  on  three  legs  with  a 
human  face  showing  a  nose-ring.  Neck- 
chains  seem  to  have  been  the  most  com- 
mon ornaments.  The  cerrito-population 
of  Indian  descent  contains  few  of  pure 
blood.  According  to  the  mapts  of  the 
1 6th  century  the  Meregoto,  a  Cariban 
tribe,  occupied  the  region  in  question. 

Stoddard  (H.  L.)  The  abstruse  signifi- 
cance of  the  numbers  thirty-six  and 
twelve.  (Am.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1 904, 
XXVI,  153-164,  6  fgs.).  Discusses  at 
length  the  origin  and  meaning  of  the 
discoidal  stone  and  statues  discovered 
near  Menard's  mound,  Arkansas,  in  the 
spring  of  1 901.  The  outer  edge  of  this 
jasper  discoidal  has  36  semicircles  and 
on  the  underside  is  a  phallic  symbol,  a 
yoni  conventionalized  (the  male  figure 
has  a  Mongolian  cast  of  features,  the 
headdress  of  the  female  suggests  Egypt). 
This  wonderful  find  is  regarded  as  evi- 
dence of  prehistoric  Asiatic  culture  in 
America. 


ANTHROPOLOGIC   MISCELLANEA 

Louisiana  Purchase  Exposition  Awards.  —  The  following  awards 
have  been  made  in  the  Department  of  Anthropology,  Louisiana  Purchase 
Exposition,  St.  Louis.  The  list  is  corrected  to  February  lo,  and  while 
the  awards  may  not  be  regarded  as  absolutely  final,  and  hence  as  strictly 
official,  the  work  of  the  Residuary  Committee  empowered  to  complete 
the  functions  of  the  International  Jury  of  Awards  is  so  well  advanced  as  to 
leave  little  probability  that  the  list  will  be  changed. 

Ethnology 

united  states 

A.  Departmental  Exhibits 
Ainu  group  :   Grand  prize^  Frederick  Starr ;  Silver  medal,  Y.  Inagaki ; 

Bronze  medal.  Chief  Sangyea. 
Patagonian  group  :   Grand  prize,  Vicente  Cane ;  Silver  medal,  Chief 

Guechico ;  Bronze  medal,  Juan  Wohlers. 
Pygmy  group  :    Grand  prize,  S.  P.  Vemer ;   Bronze  medal,  John  Kon- 

dola. 
Field  school  of  anthropology  :   Grand  prize.  University  of  Chicago. 
CocoPA  GROUP  :   Gold  medal,  E.  C.  Cushman  Jr.  ;  Silver  medals.  Chief 

Pablo  Colorado,  Chief  Tom  Moore. 
Vancouver  group  :    Gold  medal,  C.   F.   Newcombe ;   Bronze  medals. 

Doctor  Atliu,  Charles  Nowell. 
General  assemblage:   Gold  medal,  Mrs  S.  M.  McCowan. 
Sundry  groups  :   Gold  medal,  George  A.  Dorsey. 
Sioux  GROUP :  Silver  medal,  Chief  Yellow  Hair. 
Pawnee  group:  Silver  medal,    Roaming  Chief;  Bronze  medal,   James 

Murie. 
Wichita  group  :    Silver  medal,  Chief  Towakanie  Jim ;  Bronze  medal. 

Burgess  Hunt. 
Arapaho  group  :  Silver  medal.  Cleaver  Warden. 
Cheyenne  group  :  Silver  medal,  Richard  Davis. 
Geronimo  band  :  Silver  medal,  Chief  Geronimo. 

Navaho  group  :  Silver  medal,  Vicente  Beguay ;  Bronze  medal,  Pestlekai. 
PoMO  GROUP  :    Silver  medals,  William  Benson,  Mary  Benson. 

157 


158  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Osage  group  :  Silver  medals^  Charles  Michel,  Chief  Olahowallah ;  Bronte 

medals^  Chief  Claymore,  Frank  Comdropper,  Wilson  Kirk. 
Chippewa  group  :  Bronze  medal^  Chief  Meshakegeschig. 
KiCKAPOO  group  :  Bronze  medaiy  D.  H.  Roubideaux. 
Pima  group  :  Bronze  medal,  Kestro  Jackson. 
Maricopa  group  :  Bronze  medal,  James  Bluebird. 
Apache  group  :  Bronze  medal.  Chief  Trucha  Tafoya. 
AcoMA  GROUP :  Bronze  medal,  Juan  Antonio  Saracini. 
Pueblo  group  :  Bronze  medal,  Antonio  Chavez. 

B.    General  Exhibits 

AccuLTURAL  ARTIFACTS :   Grand  prize,  J.  W.  Benham. 

American  Anthropologist  :   Grand  prize,  American  Anthropological 

Association;  Gold  medal,  F.  W.  Hodge. 
Palace  of  Ancient  Art  :    Grand  prize,  H.  Ephraim  Benguiat ;  Silver 

medal,  Mordecai  Benguiat. 
Photographs  of  ethnic  types  :  Gold  medal,  Frederick  Starr. 
PoMO  basket:   Gold  medal,  J.  W.  Benham. 
Fictile  ware  :   Gold  medal.  The  Rookwood  Pottery. 
Haida  structures  :   Gold  medal,  Alaska  Territory ;  Silver  medal,  Mary 

E.  Hart. 
Ethnic  map  :  Silver  medal,  University  of  California. 
Alaskan  artifacts  :  Silver  medal.  Governor  Brady. 
KiCKAPOO  relics  :  Bronze  medal,  O.  E.  Edwards. 
Indian  beadwork  :  Bronze  medal,  Herbert  Brown. 
Mongolian  type:  Bronze  medal,  Allen  Hutchinson. 

GERMANY 

East  African  artifacts  :  Grand  prize.  Imperial  Government,  German 
Ost-Afrika ;   Gold  medal,  Hugo  Hardy. 

GREAT   BRITAIN    (EAST   INDIA) 

Jain  temple  :    Grand  prize,   F.    P.    Bumghara ;     Gold  medal,    N.    F* 

Bumghara. 
East  Indian  artifacts  :  Silver  medal.     F.  P.  Bumghara  &  Co. 

SIAM 

Siamese  artifacts:  Grand  prize  (letter),  H.  M.  the  King  of  Siam; 
Grand  prize,  H.  H.  the  Crown  Prince  of  Siam ;  Gold  medal,  J. 
Howard  Gore. 


/ 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  159 

NEW  ZEALAND 

Paintings  of  types  :   Gold  medaiy  H.  E.  Partridge. 
Photographs  of  types  :  Silver  medaiy  New  Zealand  Govemment. 
Maori  artifacts  :  Silver  medaiy  T.  E.  Donne. 

INDIAN   school    (UNITED   STATES) 

Typical  Indian  school  :  Grand  prize^  U.  S.  Indian  Bureau ;  Gold 
medaiy  S.  M.  McCowan ;  Silver  medals y  Miss  C.  F.  Peters,  Miss 
Lillian  Harrison,  C.  A.  Peairs,  E.  K.  Miller,  Jesse  McCallum,  Chris 
Kaufman ;  Bronze  medals.  Miss  Katherine  Keck,  Miss  Emma  John- 
son, Miss  Abbie  ScotU 

Archeology 

united  states 

Indian  mound  relics  :  Grand  prize,  Ohio  Archaeological  and  Historical 
Society ;   Gold  medal,  William  C.  Mills. 

Aboriginat«  artifacts  :  Grand  prizes.  New  Mexico  Territory,  Fred  Har- 
vey ;  Gold  medal,  J.  F.  Huckel ;  Bronze  medals,  George  Tictzel, 
Jackson  Hurley,  E.  W.  Whitcomb. 

Wampum  treaty  belts  :   Gold  medal,  Wyman  Brothers. 

Aboriginal  antiquities  :  Gold  medals,  State  of  Louisiana,  Fred  Har- 
vey ;  Silver  medal,  George  T.  Williamson. 

Indian  mound  relics  :  Silver  medal,  Davenport  Academy  of  Sciences. 

Indian  cave  relics  :  Silver  medal,  Phillips  Academy. 

Prehistoric  cache  :  Silver  medal,  Weatherford  &  Vail. 

Prehistoric  cradle-basket  :  Silver  medal,  Julian  T.  Zeller. 

Native  copper  implements  :  Silver  medal,  Wyman  Brothers. 

Aboriginal  petroglyphs  :  Silver  medal,  C.  H.  Bennett. 

Ceremonial  axe  :  Bronze  medal,  Charles  Aldrich. 

Iron  brank  :  Bronze  medal,  Joseph  Roth. 

ARGENTINA 

Calchaqui  RELICS :    Grand  prize,  Manuel  B.  Zavaleta. 

BRAZIL 

Archeologic  and  ETHNOLOGICAL  COLLECTIONS :  Grand  prize.  State 
Govemment  of  Amazonas ;  Gold  medal.  Commissioner  Aguiar. 

Archeologic  collection  :  Silver  medal,  Ricardo  Krone. 

Aboriginal  artifacts  :  Silver  medal,  Mirando  Ribeiro ;  Bronze  medal, 
Alfonse  Roche. 

Stone  implements  :  Bronze  medal,  Nicolao  Badariotti. 


l6o  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

MEXICO 

Reproductions  of  antiquities  :   Grand  prize.  Sees.  Justicia  y  Fomento. 

Archeologic  collection  :    Gold  medal,  Mexican  Commission. 

Archeologic  publications  :  Gold  medals,  Alfredo  Chavero,  Antonio 
Pefiafiel. 

Reproductions  of  sculptures  :    Gold  medal,  Eufemio  Abadiano. 

Models  of  antiquities  :   Gold  medal,  Secretaria  de  Fomento. 

Treatises  on  tongues  :  Silver  medal,  Cecelio  Robelo. 

Map  of  migrations  :  Bronze  medal.  Angel  Bravo. 

Photographs  of  types  :  Bronze  medals, Gohi^mo  de  Chiapas,  Gobiemo 
de  Guerrero,  Gobiemo  de  Tabasco,  Gobiemo  de  Mexico,  D.  F. 

Aboriginal  costumery  :  Bronze  medal,  Gobiemo  de  Oaxaca. 

Native  instruments  :  Bronze  medal,  Gobiemo  de  Michoacan. 

Aboriginal  metates  :  Bronze  medals,  Jefatura  Politica  de  Maxcanu, 
Jefatura  Politica  de  Motul. 

Native  hammock  :  Bronze  medal,  Jefatura  Politica  de  Tixkokob. 

Native  artifacts  :  Bronze  medals,  Jefatura  Politica  de  Valladolid,  Jefa- 
tura Politica  de  Tancanhuitz,  Junta  Local  de  Puebla. 

Native  beds  :  Bronze  medal,  Jefe  Politico  de  Chiautla. 

Native  costumery  :  Bronze  medal,  Ayuntamiento  de  Cuetzalan. 

Embroidered  camisas  :  Bronze  medal,  Seftorita  Margarita  Vald^z. 

Bead-embroidered  camisas  :  Bronze  medal,  Nina  S.  Orosco. 

Illustrations  of  antiquities  :  Bronze  medal,  Seftorita  Maura  Marin. 

NICARAGUA 

Protohistoric  ANTIQUITIES  :  Silver  medal,  Alejandro  Bermudez. 

PORTO   RICO 

Aboriginal"  collars  '*:  Bronze  medal,  Gustavo  Preston. 

« 

GERMANY 

Saalburg  castle  ANTIQUITIES  :  Grand  prize  (letter),  K.  K.  Wilhelm  II ; 

Gold  metal,  Geh.  Baurat  Jacobi. 
Babylonian  relics:    Gold  medals,  Kgl.  Museen,  Deutsch  Orient. -Ges. 
Illustrations  of  relics:    Gold  medal,  Kgl.  Messbild-Anstalt. 
Illustrations  of  antiquities  :    Gold  medal,  Dir.  Dr  Th.  Wiegand. 

great    BRITAIN 

Egyptian  antiquities  :    Grand  prize,  Egyptian  Exploration  Fund. 
HoLYLAND  antiquities  :    Grand  prize,  Palestine  Exploration  Fund. 
Cretan  antiquities  :    Grand  prize,  Cretan  Exploration  Fund. 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  l6l 

GREAT   BRITAIN    (eGYPT) 

Archeologic  collections  :  Grand  prize  y  Egyptian  Government ;  Gold 
medals^  Prof.  G.  C.  C.  Maspero,  Dr  J.  E.  Quibell;  Bronze  medaly 
A.  B.  Coover. 

GREAT   BRITAIN    (CEYLON) 

Tamil  antiquities  :  Silver  medaly  Ceylon  Government. 
Ola  manuscripts  :  Silver  medal,  Ceylon  Government. 
Photographs  of  artifacts  :  Bronze  medal,  E.  F.  im  Thum. 
Bronze  Buddhas  :  Bronze  medal,  N.  S.  Terninnanse. 
Ola  books  :  Bronze  medal,  P.  E.  Pieris. 
Photographs  of  types  :  Bronze  medal,  John  Scott. 

BELGIXm 

Classified  relics  :  Grand  prize,  Mus^  d'Histoire  Nat.;  Gold  medaly 
Prof.  Dr  Houze,  Prof.  J.  Fraipont. 

JAPAN    (FORMOSA) 

Illustrations  of  types  :    Gold  medal.  Government  of  Formosa. 

CHINA 

Prehistoric  collections  :  Grand  prize,  Imperial  Chinese  Government ; 
Gold  medal,  H.  H.  Prince  Pu  Lun. 

History 

UNITED   states 

Historical  collections  :  Grand  prizes,  Missouri  Historical  Society, 
State  of  Iowa,  Franco-Louisiana  Society;  Gold  medals,  Pierre 
Chouteau,  Mrs  Wallace  Delafield ;  D.  I.  Bushnell,  Judge  W.  B. 
Douglas,  Charles  Aldrich,  Caspar  Cusachs,  Chicago  Historical 
Society;  Silver  medals,  Dr  C.  A.  Peterson,  Miss  Mary  L.  Dalton, 
Charles  A.  Cumming ;  Bronze  medals,  Dr  W.  F.  Parks,  Miss 
Valentine  Smith. 

Historical  records  :   Grand  prize,  Louisiana  Historical  Society. 

Protohistoric  relics  :    Gold  medal,  Missouri  Historical  Society. 

Chipped  flints  :    Gold  medal,  Gates  P.  Thruston. 

**  History  of  Louisiana  ''  :   Gold  medal.  Prof.  Alc^e  Fortier. 

Native  agricultural  implements  :  Silver  medal,  Missouri  Historical 
Society. 

Marquette  portrait  :  Silver  medal,  Donald  G.  McNab. 

Arkansas  post  records:  Silver  medal,  W.  H.  Halli-Burton. 

Napoleon  autographs  :    Silver  medal,  Gus  V.  R.  Mechin. 


l62  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [x.  s.,  7, 1905 

Ceremonial  axe  :  Bronze  medal^  D.  I.  Bushnell. 
Claiborne  portrait  :  Bronze  medal^  W.  C.  C.  Claiborne. 
Zachary  Taylor  reucs  :  Bronze  medaiy  Mrs  W.  H.  Staufier. 
Napoleon  death  mask  :  Bronze  medaly  Miss  Gaily. 
Maps  and  docl^ments  :  Bronze  medal y  T.  P.  Thompson. 
Letters  and  docl^ents  :  Bronze  medal^  W.  H.  Sejrmour. 

great   BRITAIN 

Queen's  jubilee  tributes  :  Grand  prize  (letter),  H.R.M.  Edward  VII ; 
Gold  medal.  Miss  Florence  Hayward. 

GREAT   BRITAIN    (CANADA) 

Historical  collections  :  Grand  prize ,  St.  Mary's  Collie ;  Gold  medal, 
A.  E.  Jones,  S.  J. ;  Silver  medal,  J.  C.  Burke,  S.  J. 

ITALY  (the  Vatican) 

Reproductions  of  archives:   Grand  prize  (letter).  His  Holiness  Pios 

X;    Gold  medal,    Fabrica  dei   Mosaid;   Silver  medal,    Francesco 

Cagiati. 

Anthropometry 

united  states 

Anthropometric  pubucations:  Grand  prize,  Peabody  Museum  of 
American  Ethnology  and  Archaeology ;   Gold  medal,  F.  W.  Putnam. 

Life  casts  of  types  :  Silver  medal,  Caspar  Mayer. 

Anthropometric  apparatus  :  Silver  medals,  The  Fairbanks  Company, 
Narragansett  Machine  Company,  C.  H.  Stoelting  Company ;  Bronu 
medals,  George  Tieman  &  Co.,  Kny-Scheerer  Company. 

Anthropometric  chart  :  Bronze  medal,  Bryn  Mawr  College. 

* '  Hastings  Manual  ' ' :  Bronze  medal,  Macmillan  Company. 

GERMANY 

Anthropometric  apparatus  :  Silver  medal,  Boehm  &  Wiedmann. 
Anthropometric  publications  :  Bronze  medal,  Dietrich  Riemer. 

GERMANY    (GERMAN    OST-AFRIKA) 

Casts  and  photographs  of  types  :  Silver  medal.  Imperial  Government 
of  German  Ost-Afrika. 

FRANCE 

Anthropometric  apparatus  :  Silver  medal,  (Maison  Charridre)  Collin. 

BELGIUM 

Anthropometric  publications  :   Gold  medal,  Soci6t6  d' Anthropologie. 
Maps  of  types  :  Silver  medal.  Prof.  L.  Vanderkindere. 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  1 63 

SWITZERLAND 

Anthropometric  apparatus  :  Silver  medals^  P.  Hermann,  Prof.  Rudolf 

Martin. 
Illustrations  of  types  :  Bronze  medal y  Art  Institut  Orell  Fiissli. 

PSYCHOMETRY 
united   STATES 

Psychometric  laboratory  :   Grand prize^  Columbia  University. 

Psychometric  apparatus  :  Gold  medals^  Harvard  Apparatus  Company, 
C.  H.  Stoelting  Company ;  Silver  medals^  Yale  University,  Milton 
Bradley  Company ;  Bronze  medal^  E.  B.  Meyrowitz. 

General 

commemorative  awards 

Creation  of  Department  :    Gold  medal,  F.  W.  Lehmann. 
Collective  exhibits  :   Gold  medal,  W  J  McGee ;  Silver  medals,  C.  E. 

Hulbert,  Anna  Everly  Ford. 
Ethnologic  exhibits  :  Silver  medal,  S.  C.  Simms. 
Protohistoric  exhibits  :  Silver  medal,  Gerard  Fowke. 
Indoor  exhibits  :  Silver  medal,  C.  L.  Armstrong. 
Technical  exhibits  :  Silver  medal,  R.  S.  Woodworth ;  Diploma,  F.  G. 

Bnmer. 

Organization  and  Personnel  of  Juries 
Department  of  Anthropology 

group  juries 

Section  of  Ethnology.  —  Dr  George  A.  Dorsey,  Field  Columbian  Mu- 
seum, Chairman,  Prof.  F.  W.  Putnam,  Harvard  University,  Vice- Chair- 
man, Dr  George  Byron  Gordon,  Philadelphia  Free  Museum,  Secretary. 
Mrs  Alice  Palmer  Henderson,  Tacoma,  Washington. 

Indian  School  Section.  —  C.  A.  Peairs,  U.  S.  Indian  School  Service, 
Chairman,  Dr  Hugo  Hardy,  Berlin,  Vice- Chairman,  Jesse  McCal- 
lum,  U.  S.  Indian  School  Service,  Secretary,  Miss  Cora  Peters,  U.  S. 
Indian  School  Service. 

Section  of  Archeology.  —  Prof.  M.  H.  Saville,  Columbia  University, 
Chairman.  Dr  J.  C.  Alves  de  Lima,  Brazil,  Vice- Chairman,  Dr  George 
Grant  MacCurdy,  Yale  University,  Secretary.  Madame  Zelia  Nuttall, 
Mexico. 

Section  of  History,  —  Prof.  Alc^e  Fortier,  Tulane  University,  Chair- 
man, Hon.  L.  Bradford  Prince,  Santa  F6,  Vice- Chairman,  Prof.  B.  F. 
Shambaugh,  University  of  Iowa,  Secretary. 


164  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Section  of  Anthropometry,  —  Dr  AlcS  HrdliCka,  U.  S.  National  Mu- 
seum, Chairman,  Miss  Alice  C.  Fletcher,  Harvard  University,  Vice- 
Chairman, 

Section  of  Psychometry. — Prof.  J.  McKeen  Cattell,  Columbia  Uni- 
versity, Chairman,  Prof.  Hugo  Miinsterberg,  Harvard  University,  Vice- 
Chairman,     Prof  Edward  B.  Tichener,  Cornell  University. 

Of  the  foregoing,  Mrs  Henderson,  Miss  Peters,  Madame  Nuttall,  and  Miss  Fletcher 
were  designated  by  the  Board  of  Lady  Managers  ;  Doctor  Hugo  Hardy  was  designated 
by  the  Imperial  German  Commission  ;  and  Doctor  de  Lima  was  designated  by  the  Brm- 
zilian  Commission. 

DEPARTMENT  JURY 

Prof.  F.  W.  Putnam,  Chairman,  Hon.  F.  W.  Lehmann,  Honorary 
Vice-Chainnan,  Dr  J.  C.  Alves  de  Lima,  First  Vice- Chairman,  Prof. 
Alc^e  Fortier,  Second  Vice- Chairman,  Prof.  M.  H.  Saville,  Third  Vice- 
Chairman,  Dr  George  A.  Dorsey,  Secretary,  Mr  C.  A.  Peairs,  Dr 
Hugo  Hardy,  Hon.  L.  Bradford  Prince  (absent),  Dr  AleS  HrdliCka, 
Miss  Alice  C.  Fletcher,  Prof  J.  McKeen  Cattell,  Dr  Hugo  Miinster- 
berg, Madame  Zelia  Nuttall. 

Of  the  foregoing,  Madame  Nuttall  was  designated  by  the  Board  of  Lady  Managers ; 
Mr  Lehmann  was  named  by  the  Executive  ;  and  all  others  entered  as  chairmen  and  rice- 
chairmen  of  the  group  juries. 

REPRESENTATION   IN    SUPERIOR   JURY 

F.  W.  Putnam,  United  States  (absent).  J.  C.  Alves  de  Lima, 
Brazil.     W  J  McGee,  Chief  of  Department. 

Preservation  of  Antiquities.  — Under  the  law  of  February  i,  1905, 
the  administration  of  the  National  Forest  Reserves  was  transferred  from 
the  General  Land  Office,  Department  of  the  Interior,  to  the  Bureau  of 
Forestry  under  the  Department  of  Agriculture.  As  a  large  proportion  of 
the  prehistoric  ruins  of  the  Southwest  are  situated  on  forest  reserves,  this 
change  is  of  importance  to  students  of  archeology.  The  Department  of 
Agriculture  must  now  be  looked  to  for  the  protection  of  these  ruins  and 
for  permits  to  do  archeological  work  on  forest  reserves. 

By  an  order  recently  issued  the  Office  of  Indian  Affairs  directs  that 
all  traders  on  Indian  reservations  shall  be  prohibited  from  dealing  in  pre- 
historic wares  in  the  future.  Traders  are  given  thirty  days  in  which  to 
dispose  of  collections  on  hand,  after  which  such  articles  found  in  their 
possession  will  be  considered  contraband  and  future  violations  of  the  order 
will  be  punished  by  revocation  of  license  to  trade  with  the  Indians. 

On  the  request  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Interior,  the  Secretary  of 
Agriculture  has  directed  that  the  ruins  of  Montezuma  Castle  on  Beaver 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  1 65 

creek,  Arizona,  lying  on  public  lands,  about  three  miles  outside  the  Black 
Mesa  Forest  Reserve,  shall  be  under  the  protection  of  the  forest  rangers 
of  the  adjacent  portion  of  the  reserve. 

It  is  reported  by  Forest  Supervisor  Breen  that  on  establishing  the 
northern  boundary  of  the  San  Francisco  Mountains  Forest  Reserve  in 
northern  Arizona,  the  Black  Falls  group  of  ruins  are  found  to  lie  within 
the  limits  of  the  reserve.  This  important  group  of  ruins  is,  therefore, 
under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  forest  rangers  of  the  Bureau  of  Forestry,  in- 
stead of  being  entirely  unprotected  on  the  public  lands  as  has  been 
supposed. 

The  bill  for  the  preservation  of  American  antiquities,  which  was 
drafted  by  the  joint  committee  of  the  Archaeological  Institute  of  America 
and  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  and  presented  by  them 
for  the  consideration  of  the  House  of  Representatives  committee  on  Pub- 
lic Lands,  met  with  the  approval  of  that  committee  and  was  favorably  re- 
ported to  the  House.  Final  consideration  of  the  measure,  however,  could 
not  be  obtained  during  the  short  session  of  Congress. 

As  far  as  heard  from,  it  is  the  feeling  of  the  members  of  the  joint 
committee  that  the  measure  should  be  perfected  and  reintroduced  at  the 
beginning  of  the  next  session  of  Congress.  Certain  defects  in  the  bill 
have  been  pointed  out  and  revisions  suggested  to  meet  conditions  that 
were  not  formerly  understood  or  that  have  recently  arisen.  The  local 
members  have  prepared  and  sent  out  the  following  draft  for  consideration 
and  discussion  by  all  who  are  interested  in  the  subject : 

An  Act  for  the  preservation  of  American  antiquities^  and  to  control 
the  excavation  of  archeological  sites. 

Be  it  enacted  [etc.]. 

Sec.  I .  That  for  the  purpose  of  preserving  and  protecting  from  des- 
poliation the  historic  and  prehistoric  ruins,  monuments,  and  other  antiq- 
uities that  are  situated  on  lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government 
of  the  United  States,  said  antiquities  are  hereby  placed  under  the  custody 
and  control  of  the  Secretaries  of  the  Departments  having  jurisdiction 
over  said  lands,  and  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  said  Secretaries  to  preserve 
and  protect  said  antiquities  from  despoliation  or  unauthorized  appropria- 
tion or  injury. 

Sec.  2.  That  the  Secretaries  of  the  Departments  having  jurisdiction 
over  the  lands  owned  or  controlled  by  the  Government  of  the  United 
States,  are  hereby  authorized  to  permit  the  examinations  of  ruins,  the 
excavation  of  archeological  sites,  and  the  gathering  of  objects  of  antiquity 
upon  the  lands  under  their  respective  jurisdictions  by  institutions,  either 


1 66  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

domestic  or  foreign,  which  they  deem  properly  qualified  to  conduct  such 
examination,  excavation,  or  gatherings,  subject  to  such  rules  and  regula- 
tions as  they  may  prescribe :  Provided,  That  the  examinations,  excava- 
tions, and  gatherings  are  undertaken  for  the  benefit  of  reputable  museums, 
universities,  colleges,  or  other  recognized  scientific  or  educational  institu- 
tions with  a  view  to  increasing  the  knowledge  of  such  objects,  and  that  the 
gatherings  shall  be  made  for  permanent  preservation  in  public  museums 
and  not  for  commercial  purposes. 

Sec.  3.  That  of  all  excavations  and  explorations  made  under  the  pro- 
visions of  this  act,  a  proper  written  and  photographic  record,  with  plans, 
shall  be  made  at  stated  periods,  and  transmitted  for  preservation  to  the 
United  States  National  Museum. 

Sec.  4.  That  the  Secretaries  of  the  Departments  aforesaid  shall  make 
and  publish  from  time  to  time  uniform  rules  and  regulations  for  the  pur- 
pose of  carrying  out  the  provisions  of  this  act. 

Sec.  5.  That  all  persons  who  shall,  without  permission,  appropriate, 
injure,  or  destroy  any  of  the  objects  of  antiquity  referred  to  in  this  act, 
shall,  upon  conviction,  be  fined  in  a  sum  not  more  than  five  thousand 
dollars,  or  be  imprisoned  for  a  period  not  more  than  twelve  months,  or 
shall  suffer  both  fine  and  imprisonment,  in  the  discretion  of  the  court 

It  is  hoped  that  all  who  are  interested  will  consider  this  thoroughly 

and  freely  express  their  views  for  the  guidance  of  the  committee  at  its 

next  meeting.  Edgar  L.  Hewett. 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Archaeological  Institute  of  America.  —  The  twenty-fifth  anniversary 
of  the  Archaeological  Institute  of  America  was  celebrated  by  a  meeting  in 
Boston  and  Cambridge,  December  28-30,  1904. 

For  several  years  many  members  have  been  urging  that  attention 
should  be  given  to  American  archeology  in  accordance  with  the  original 
plan  of  the  Institute,  **  embracing  the  sites  of  ancient  civilization  in  the 
New  World  as  well  as  in  the  Old.'*  An  important  step  in  this  direction 
is  the  establishment  of  an  American  Fellowship,  now  in  its  foiuth 
year.  This  fellowship  has  been  held  from  the  beginning  by  Dr  Alfred 
M.  Tozzer,  a  graduate  in  the  Division  of  Anthropology  at  Harvard,  who  is 
now  on  his  fourth  trip  to  Yucatan  and  Central  America.  At  the  Boston 
meeting  an  appropriation  was  made  for  the  continuation  of  this  fellowship. 

At  this  meeting  Mr  C.  F.  Lummis  gave  an  account  of  the  work 
done  by  the  recently  organized  Southwestern  branch  of  the  Institute,  with 
headquarters  at  Los  Angeles,  in  collecting  phonographic  records  of  Indian 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  1 6/ 

and  old  Spanish  songs,  both  of  which  are  so  rapidly  passing  away  that 
Mr  Luxmnis  aptly  terms  the  research  'Miving  archeology."  Dr  F.  M. 
P^Qmer  gave  an  illustrated  paper  on  some  features  of  the  archeology  of 
southern  California,  showing  what  had  been  accomplished  by  the  South- 
western branch  in  making  collections  in  the  southern  portion  of  the  state. 
So  active  has  this  branch  become  that  the  Institute  made  a  liberal  appro- 
priation for  the  continuation  of  the  researches  by  Mr  Lummis  and  Dr 
Pdmer,  the  exact  amount  to  be  decided  by  the  executive  committee.  An 
appropriation  of  $1,000  was  made  in  aid  of  the  archeological  researches 
in  Central  America  under  the  auspices  of  the  committee  of  the  Peabody 
Museum ;  and  the  sum  of  I500  was  granted  toward  the  continuation  of 
the  research  in  the  caves  of  northern  California  under  the  direction  of  the 
Department  of  Anthropology  of  the  University  of  California. 

With  the  exception  of  the  researches  by  Bandelier  in  the  Pueblo 
region  during  its  earlier  years,  the  Institute  has  been  engaged  principally 
in  classical  archeology,  in  which  it  has  accomplished  much  of  value. 
This  new  awakening  to  the  importance  of  American  archeology  in  the 
wider  study  of  the  life  of  man,  and  the  continuation  of  this  broader 
policy  by  the  Institute  will  be  gratifying  to  many  of  its  members  and  will 
be  sure  to  bring  about  additional  support  in  all  its  sections.  The  Insti- 
tute has  now  an  efficient  American  Committee  which  is  ready  to  receive 
communications  in  relation  to  researches  of  sp>ecial  importance  in  this 
country.  Through  this  committee  it  took  part  in  drafting  the  bill  for  the 
national  preservation  of  the  prehistoric  sites  in  this  country  and  was 
represented  at  the  hearing  before  the  House  Committee  on  Public  Lands. 
At  this  anniversary  meeting  Prof  Charles  Eliot  Norton,  the  first 
president,  who  is  regarded  as  the  father  of  the  Institute,  was  present  and 
took  an  active  part. 

A  Fonn  of  Urn-burial  on  Mobile  Bay.  —  In  the  last  number  of  the 
Anufican  Anthropologist  (October- December,  1904)  I  contributed  a 
paper,  "  Aboriginal  Urn-Burial  in  the  United  States.*'  In  this  paper  I 
pointed  out  that  the  occurrence  of  what  might  be  called  a  form  of  um- 
borial,  namely,  the  placing  of  a  vessel  of  earthenware  inverted  over  a 
skull  with  which  the  rest  of  the  skeleton  was  present  had  not  been  re- 
ported, to  my  knowledge,  east  of  Arizona  and  New  Mexico.  The  fact 
was  emphasized  that  the  form  of  mn -burial  in  question  should  not  be  con- 
fused with  that  obtaining  along  the  northwestern  Florida  coast  where  in- 
verted bowls  are  found  lying  over  isolated  skulls  or  skulls  with  a  few  scat- 
tered, accompanying  bones. 


1 68  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  190S 

While  consulting  authorities  for  my  paper  I  came  upon  a  description^ 
of  the  finding  of  an  urn-burial,  exact  particulars  not  given,  on  Simpson's 
island,  one  of  a  number  of  islands  to  the  north  of  Mobile  bay. 

Having  decided  to  make  certain  investigations  around  Mobile  bay,  I 
visited  Simpson's  island  in  January,  1905.  On  the  western,  or  Mobile 
river,  side  of  the  island,  about  three  miles  from  the  northern  end,  is  a 
cultivated  tract  on  which  are  several  frame  houses.  About  250  yards  in 
a  southerly  direction  from  the  houses  was  a  mound,  3  feet  in  height  and 
87  feet  across  its  circular  base,  made  of  a  mixture  of  tenacious  muck  and 
small  clam-shells  (^Rangia  cuneata).  As  the  owner  valued  the  mound  as 
a  place  of  refuge  for  stock  in  flood-time,  the  outer  part  of  the  mound, 
subject  to  wash,  was  not  touched  by  us  ;  but  the  central  part,  fifty  feet  in 
diameter,  was  dug  through  and  a  considerable  number  of  burials  of  types 
common  to  southern  mounds,  not  in  connection  with  urns,  were  en- 
countered. 

There  was  one  exception.  In  the  northeastern  part  of  the  mound 
was  a  skeleton  of  an  adult,  the  head  directed  to  the  east.  The  skeleton 
lay  at  full  length  on  its  back,  with  the  head  turned  slightly  to  one  side. 
Inverted  over  the  skull,  and  completely  covering  it,  was  a  decorated,  im- 
perforate vessel  of  earthenware,  maximum  diameter  11.75  ^^c^^es,  height 
3.75  inches,  with  its  upturned  base  but  8  inches  from  the  surface. 

Here  we  have  a  burial,  as  far  east  as  Alabama,  similar  to  the  burials 
reported  from  Arizona  and  New  Mexico. 

Considering  the  interesting  urn-burials  found  on  Alabama  river  and 
those  of  the  northwestern  Florida  coast,  beginning  at  Perdido  bay,  the 
coast  boundary  between  Alabama  and  Florida,  which  is  but  a  few  miles 
distant  from  Mobile  bay,  one  might  look  for  records  of  the  finding  of 
urn -burials  on  Mobile  bay,  but  such  records  are  not  forthcoming,  and 
even  the  testimony  of  inhabitants  as  to  the  discovery  of  such  burials  seems 
to  be  wanting.  My  investigation,  which  included  the  circuit  of  the  bay, 
resulted  in  the  finding  of  no  urn -burial  of  any  sort  other  than  the  one 
described. 

In  a  mound  on  Tombigbee  river,  however,  sixty-five  miles  by  water 
above  Mobile,  at  Three  Rivers  Landing,  Washington  county,  Alabama, 
I  since  have  found  a  skeleton  having  on  the  skull,  part  of  which  it  covered 
like  a  cap,  an  inverted  vessel  six  and  one-half  inches  in  diameter. 

Fuller  description  of  the  archeological  work  on  Mobile  bay  and  on 
Tombigbee  river  will  appear  in  the  Journal  of  the  Academy  of  Natural 
Sciences  of  Philadelphia.  Clarence  B.  Moore. 


>  Smithsonian  Report^  1878,  p.  290 . 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  169 

Fadal  Casts.  —  In  the  Directions  for  Collecting  Information  and 
Specimens  for  Physical  Anthropology^  by  Dr  Ale§  HrdliCka,  published  as 
Part  R  of  the  Bulletin  of  the  United  States  National  Museum,  No. 
39,  1905,  a  method  for  collecting  facial  casts  is  described  (page 
19).  I  think  it  is  but  just  to  say  that  anthropologists  are  indebted 
for  the  development  of  this  method  to  Mr  Caspar  Mayer,  sculptor  in  the 
ethnological  department  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History. 
This  Museum  has  been  engaged  for  eight  years  in  making  systematic  col- 
lections of  plaster  casts  of  various  types  of  man,  and  during  this  entire 
time  the  method  of  taking  casts  has  constantly  been  improved  by  Mr 
Mayer,  who  was  the  first  to  suggest  to  anthropologists  the  taking  of  plaster 
casts  without  the  use  of  tubing  inserted  in  the  nose,  and  in  such  a  manner 
that  distortions  of  the  face  are  almost  entirely  avoided.  The  undersigned, 
as  well  as  all  other  collaborators  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  His- 
tory, including  Dr  HrdliCka,  have  learned  this  method  from  Mr  Mayer, 
who,  by  its  development,  has  done  an  excellent  service  to  anthropological 
science.  Franz  Boas. 

In  answer  to  inquiries  concerning  the  method  of  making  facial 
casts  outlined  in  my  Directions  for  Collecting  Information  and  Speci- 
mens for  Physical  Anthropology ^  I  wish  to  say  that  I  am  not  aware  with 
whom  it  is  original.  As  plaster  masks  have  been  and  are  being  made  by 
many  artists  and  travelers,  the  method  is  presumably  an  outcome  of 
numerous  experiences.  The  description  follows  almost  wholly  the  pro- 
cedure as  I  have  seen  it  practised  by  Mr  Caspar  Mayer,  a  New  York 
sculptor,  employed  largely  by  the  anthropological  department  of  the 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History.  Mr  Mayer,  I  believe,  has  intro- 
duced the  innovation  of  doing  away  with  the  nasal  tubes.  The  method 
is  practicable  with  savage  tribes;  following  it  I  have  made  about  140 
facial  casts  in  the  field  among  the  Indians,  including  some  very  primitive 
tribes.  The  time  required  by  me  with  one  individual,  including  the 
preparation,  is  about  40  minutes.  The  process  is  a  little  too  slow  for 
children.  A.  Hrdli£ka. 

Marquis  de  Nadaillac.  —  In  the  death  of  Jean  Francois  Albert  du 
Pouget,  Marquis  de  Nadaillac,  at  the  Chateau  de  Rougemont,  Loir-et-Cher, 
France,  on  October  i,  1904,  at  the  ripe  age  of  86  years,  France  has  lost 
one  of  its  most  distinguished  citizens  and  Anthropology  one  of  its  best 
known  authorities. 

The  Marquis  of  Nadaillac  was  prefect  of  the  Basses-Pyrenees  in  187 1, 
and  of  Indre-et-Loire  in  1877.     Retiring  to  private  life  in  the  latter 


I/O  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

year,  he  thenceforth  devoted  his  time  to  the  study  of  archeology  and 
ethnology,  writing  many  works  on  these  subjects.  He  was  a  good  Eng- 
lish scholar,  and  had  many  American  correspondents,  for  all  of  whom  he 
ever  had  a  word  of  cheer.  The  Marquis  was  a  member  of  many  learned 
societies  at  home  and  abroad;  in  America  he  was  a  member  of  the 
Numismatic  and  Antiquarian  Society  of  Philadelphia,  and  an  honorary 
member  of  the  Davenport  Academy  of  Sciences  and  of  the  Anthropological 
Society  of  Washington.  He  was  a  Chevalier  of  the  Legion  of  Honor,  a 
correspondent  of  the  Institute  of  France,  and  held  decorations  from  Austria, 
Belgium,  Brazil,  Hanover,  Italy,  and  Spain.  In  the  United  States  his  best 
known  work  was  Prehistoric  America^  an  illustrated  octavo  published  in 
1884.  His  writings  included  valuable  papers  on  Prehistoric  South  Amer- 
ica, Precolumbian  Canada,  The  Calaveras  Skull,  Recent  Discoveries  in 
America,  The  Moundbuilders,  Pipes  and  Tobacco,  Progress  of  the  United 
States,  The  Seris,  The  Ancient  Population  of  Colombia,  The  Unity  of  the 
Human  Race,  Dawn  of  Life  on  the  Earth,  The  Glacial  Period,  Man  and 
the  Monkey,  Men  of  the  Cave  Period,  Primitive  Monuments,  The  Cus- 
toms of  Early  Races,  Pile  Dwellers,  Prehistoric  Fishing,  The  Copper  Age, 
The  Evolution  of  Marriage,  and  Causes  of  the  Decrease  of  the  Birth-rate 
in  France.  He  also  published  several  works  relating  to  the  archeology 
and  ethnology  of  Africa,  Ireland,  Great  Britain,  and  of  English  and 
French  colonies.  It  has  been  related  that  the  Marquis  said  all  the  good 
things  possible  of  authors  to  whom  he  referred  in  his  numerous  writings, 
leaving  the  defects,  if  any,  in  the  shadow.  News  of  his  death  comes  as 
a  distinct  shock  to  his  many  American  friends  and  his  loss  will  be  keenly 
felt  by  students  of  archeology  and  ethnology  in  the  New  World. 

J.  D.  McGuiRE. 

The  Wisconsin  Archeological  Society  has  caused  to  be  introduced  in 
the  State  Legislature  a  bill  (No.  195  A)  asking  for  the  appropriation  by 
the  State  of  the  sum  of  $500  annually  toward  the  publication  of  its  edu- 
cational and  scientific  bulletins,  and  with  the  provision  that  131  free 
copies  of  each  issue  be  presented  to  the  Wisconsin  Free  Library  Commis- 
sion for  distribution  among  its  traveling  libraries. 

It  is  sincerely  hoped  that  this  bill  may  soon  be  enacted  into  law,  as  it 
will  do  much  toward  increasing  the  interest  in  Wisconsin's  antiquities 
through  wider  distribution  of  the  publications  of  the  Wisconsin  Arche- 
ological Society  concerning  them.  It  is  also  hoped  that  something  will 
soon  be  done  to  preserve  the  aboriginal  monuments  throughout  the  State 
ere  the  progress  of  agricultural  pursuits  and  the  increase  in  the  value  of 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  I/I 

the  lands  on  which  they  are  situated  make  their  acquirement,  and  even 
their  protection,  impossible. 

For  a  number  of  years  there  has  been  a  growing  interest  in  the  pres- 
ervation of  the  antiquities  of  Michigan,  also,  but  thus  far  the  State  has 
done  practically  nothing  toward  furthering  it,  and  the  public  does  not  seem 
to  manifest  the  same  interest  in  the  subject  as  do  the  people  of  Wiscon- 
sin, who  are  conducting  archeological  investigations  within  their  territory 
with  great  enthusiasm.  Harlan  I.  Smith. 

The  Justin  Winsor  prize  of  |ioo,  offered  by  the  American  Histor- 
ical Association  for  the  encouragement  of  historical  research,  will  be 
awarded  for  the  year  1905  to  the  best  unpublished  monograph  in  the 
field  of  American  History  that  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Committee  of 
Award  on  or  before  October  i,  1905.  The  prize  is  intended  for  writers 
who  have  not  yet  published  any  considerable  work  or  obtained  an  estab- 
lished reputation.  The  monograph  must  be  based  on  independent  and 
original  investigation  in  American  history,  by  which  is  meant  the  history 
of  any  of  the  British  colonies  in  America  to  1776,  of  other  portions  of 
the  continent  which  have  since  been  included  in  the  territory  of  the  United 
States,  and  of  the  United  States.  It  may  deal  with  any  aspect  of  that 
history — ^social,  political,  constitutional,  religious,  economic,  ethnological, 
military,  or  biographical,  though  in  the  last  three  instances  a  treatment 
exclusively  ethnological,  military,  or  biographical  would  be  unfavorably 
received.  Professor  Charles  M.  Andrews,  of  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa. ,  chairman 
of  the  committee,  will  furnish  full  information  to  prospective  competitors. 

Thomas  Varker  Keam  died  at  Truro,  Cornwall,  England,  of  angina 
pectoris,  November  30,  1904.  Mr  Keam  was  bom  in  1846  in  Truro,  and 
went  to  sea  as  a  boy,  sailing  as  a  midshipman  in  the  English  mercantile 
marine  to  Sidney  and  Newcastle,  Australia.  From  there  he  went  to  San 
Francisco,  thence  in  1865  overland  to  Santa  F6,  where  he  entered  the 
service  as  a  private  in  the  First  New  Mexico  Cavalry,  in  which  he  was 
later  commissioned  as  second  lieutenant.  In  1872  he  was  Spanish  inter- 
preter in  the  government  service  at  Fort  Defiance,  Arizona,  and  ten  years 
later  went  to  the  cafion  that  bears  his  name,  residing  there  as  Indian 
trader  until  a  few  years  ago,  when  he  disposed  of  his  interests  and  finally 
returned  to  his  boyhood  home  at  Truro.  Mr  Keam  was  widely  known 
to  Indians  of  the  southwest  as  **Tomas'*  and  was  respected  and  loved 
by  them.     He  spoke  both  Hopi  and  Navaho  fluently. 

Mr  Keam  was  a  man  of  the  highest  integrity,  a  keen  observer,  a 
wide    reader,  cultivated  and  accomplished.      He  maintained  an  open 


172  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  ^,  1905 

house  at  Keam's  Cafion  for  every  wayfarer,  and  his  hospitality  was 
shared  alike  by  the  scientific  explorer  and  the  wandering  Indian.  For 
many  years  he  practically  supported  that  remarkable  genius,  Alexander 
Macgregor  Stephen,  who  lived  more  or  less  with  him  from  the  time  of 
his  arrival  at  the  cafion  in  1882  until  his  death  in  1894.  Mr  Keam 
preserved  Stephen's  numerous  valuable  manuscripts  with  jealous  care,  and 
erected  a  monument  on  his  grave  in  the  cafion.  Taking  a  lively  inter- 
est in  the  Indian  antiquities  of  the  adjacent  region,  he  made  several  im- 
portant collections,  the  largest  of  which  is  now  in  the  Berlin  Museum  of 
Ethnology.  Other  collections  are  in  the  Peabody  Museum  at  Cambridge 
and  the  Museum  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  Mr  Keam's  death 
will  be  deplored  by  every  student  and  explorer  of  the  Southwest,  to  most 
of  whom  he  was  known  and  beloved.  Stewart  Culin. 

An  Interesting  Broadside.  —  Mr  D.  N.  Thomas,  of  Greenport, 
L.  I.,  has  found  an  interesting  broadside  containing  a  four-column  versi- 
fication of  **  The  Rebels*  Reward,  or  English  Courage  Displayed,  being  a 
Full  and  True  Account  of  the  Victory  obtained  over  the  Indians  at  Norri- 
giwock  on  the  Twelfth  of  August  last,  by  the  English  Forces  under  com- 
mand of  Capt.  Johnson  Harmon. ' '  On  the  upper  right-hand  is  a  very 
rude  picture  supposed  to  represent  the  English  forces  firing  on  the  Indian 
fortress,  and  over  the  verses  is  the  line  :  "To  the  Tune  oi  All  You  That 
Love  Good  Fellows^  etc.'*  This  broadside  is  printed  on  a  thick  and 
coarse  kind  of  rag  paper,  in  old-style  type,  in  ink  but  little  faded.  It  is 
in  a  good  state  of  preservation,  except  that  where  creased  the  paper  has 
given  way  and  in  the  vertical  middle  fold  it  has  torn  almost  across.  At 
the  right-hand  lower  comer  is  the  imprint :  BOSTON  :  Printed  and  sold 
by  J.  Franklin  in  Union  Street,  1724.  W.  W.  Tooker. 

Tlingit  Method  of  Collecting  Herring-eggs.  When  the  herring  run 
took  place,  hemlock  boughs  were  fastened  together  and  laid  down  in  rows 
for  the  fish  to  spawn  upon.  At  one  end  of  each  was  tied  a  float  marked 
in  some  special  way  by  its  owner.  When  covered  with  eggs,  these  boughs 
were  lifted  into  the  canoe,  carried  ashore,  and  placed  to  dry  on  the 
branches  of  a  tree  which  had  been  stripped  of  its  smaller  twigs.  To  raise 
them  into  place  there  was  employed  a  large  wooden  hook  taken  from  a 
tree  where  a  branch  comes  off,  and  it  was  then  a  comparatively  simple 
matter,  but  after  they  were  dried  the  eggs  became  very  brittle  and  had  to 
be  handled  with  care.  Hemlock  boughs  are  said  to  be  used  in  preference 
to  others  because  they  leave  no  peculiar  taste.  J.  R.  Swanton. 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  1 73 

Bontoc-Igorot  Clothing.  —  In  a  brief  communication  received  since 
the  publication  of  his  article  on  this  subject  in  the  last  issue  of  the  Ameri- 
can Anthropologist y  Dr  Albert  Ernest  Jenks  announces  that  he  has  ascer- 
tained beyond  question,  which  he  had  before  raised,  that  "  the  Ilokano 
women  on  the  west  coast  of  northern  Luzon  avowedly  wear  the  tapis  to 
hide  any  possible  evidence  of  menstruation. ' ' 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Council  of  the  American  Anthropological 
Association  held  in  New  York,  April  15,  it  was  voted  to  hold  a  special 
meeting  of  the  Association  in  Portland,  Oregon,  during  the  Lewis  and 
Clark  Centennial  Exposition.  The  members  of  the  Council  present  were 
Messrs  Boas,  Chamberlain,  Culin,  Farrand,  Gordon,  Hodge,  Hyde,  Mac- 
Curdy,  Pepper,  Putnam,  Saville,  and  Smith. 

The  Fourteenth  International  Congress  of  Orientalists  was 
held  at  Algiers,  under  the  auspices  of  the  Algerian  Government,  April 
19-26,  1905.  Dr  Cyrus  Adler,  Librarian  of  the  Smithsonian  Institu- 
tion, Washington,  D.  C,  was  the  official  representative  in  the  United 
States  of  the  Committee  on  Organization  of  the  Congress. 

Dr  John  R.  Swanton  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology  is  de- 
livering two  courses  of  lectures  in  the  Semitic  Seminary  of  Johns  Hopkins 
University,  one  on  American  Ethnology  with  special  reference  to  Soci- 
ology and  Mythology,  and  one  on  the  Dakota  language. 

The  wide  and  increasing  interest  in  folklore  researches  in  Germany 
and  Austria  is  indicated  by  the  fact  that  the  Germans  have  now  perfected 
a  Folklore  Union  embracing  twenty-four  societies  and  6,000  members. 

Mr  William  H.  Holmes,  Chief  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology 
and  a  vice-president  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  has 
been  elected  a  member  of  the  National  Academy  of  Sciences. 

Dr  Livingston  Farrand,  Professor  of  Anthropology  in  Columbia 
University,  has  been  placed  in  charge  of  the  work  of  the  National  Associa- 
tion for  the  Study  and  Prevention  of  Tuberculosis. 

Dr  C.  a.  Peterson,  of  St.  Louis,  a  founder  of  the  American  Anthro- 
pological Association,  has  been  elected  president  of  the  Missouri  Histor- 
ical Society. 

The  title  of  Correspondant  de  TEcole  d' Anthropologic  de  Paris  has 
been  conferred  on  Dr  George  Grant  MacCurdy  of  the  Yale  University 
Museum. 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION 

Proceedings  of  the  Philadelphia  Meeting,  December  28-30,  1904. 

The  program  of  the  annual  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological 
Association  was  merged  with  that  of  the  American  Folk-Lore  Society  and 
Section  H  of  the  American  Association  for  the  Advancement  of  Science. 
The  sessions  were  held  in  Widener  Hall,  Free  Museum  of  Science  and 
Art,  University  of  Pennsylvania,  December  28-3oth,  inclusive.  The 
joint  program  was  as  follows : ' 

1.  Anthropometric  Work  at  the  St.  Louis  Exposition  :  (a)  Sense  Tests 

of  Various  Races ;  (^)  Physical  Measurements  of  the  Philippine 
Groups.     R.  S.  Wood  worth  and  Frank  G.  Bruner. 

2.  The  Story  of  a  Shield.     James  Mooney. 

3.  Themistology.     Edward  Lindsey. 

4.  Recent  Investigations  in  the  Somatic  Anthropology  of  the  Brain  of 

Distinguished  Persons,  of  Individuals  of  Various  Races,  and  of 
Criminals.     Edward  Anthony  Spitzka. 

5.  Medical  Notes  on  the  Southwestern  Indians.     A.  Hrdli^ka. 

6.  The  Physical  Resemblance  of  Twins.     Edward  L.  Thomdike. 

7.  The  Color  Sensibility  of  the  Peripheral  Retina  (by  title).     J.  W. 

Baird. 

8.  A  Tale  in  the  Hudson  River  Mohican  Language  (by  title).    J. 

Dyneley  Prince. 

9.  The  Settlement  and  Transfer  of  Upper  Louisiana  (by  title) .     Paul 

Beckwith. 

10.  Superstitions  of  School  Children.     Will  S.  Monroe. 

11.  The  Use  and  Study  of  Anthropology  in  School  (by  title).     Amos 

W.  Famham. 

12.  Disenchantment  by  Decapitation,  address  of  the  retiring  President 

(read  by  Mr.  Newell).     George  Lyman  Kittredge. 

13.  Influence  of  European  Contact  on  Aboriginal  Institutions  (by  title). 

Alexander  F.  Chamberlain. 

14.  The  Kiowa  Supernatural.     James  Mooney. 

15.  The  Tale  of  the  Three  Wishes.     William  Wells  Newell. 

*  For  abstracts  of  the  papers,  see  report  of  George  H.  Pepper,  Secretary  of  Section 
H,  in  Science f  March  24,  1905. 

174 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION  1/5 

i6.  The  Influence  of  the  Sun  on  the  People  of  the  Hopi  Pueblos.     J. 
Walter  Fewkes. 

17.  The  Historic  and  Prehistoric  Ruins  of  the  Southwest.     Edgar  L. 

Hewett. 

18.  The  Election  at  Jemez  Pueblo  (by  title).     Albert  B.  Reagan. 

19.  Prehistoric  Surgery.    A  Neolithic  Survival.    George  Grant  MacCurdy. 

20.  Mexican  and  Central  American  Archeology,  address  of  the  Vice- 

President.     Marshall  H.  Saville. 

In  the  absence  of  President  W  J  McGee,  Vice-President  William  H. 
Holmes  occupied  the  chair.  The  members  of  the  Council  present  were : 
Miss  Fletcher,  Messrs  Holmes,  Dorsey,  Farrand,  Fewkes,  Hough, 
Hrdlicka,  Hyde,  Kroeber,  MacCurdy,  McGuire,  Mooney,  Pepper, 
Saville,  E.  L.  Hewett,  and  Gordon. 

The  report  of  the  Treasurer,  Mr  B.  Talbot  B.  Hyde,  was  read  and 
referred  to  the  Auditing  Committee  consisting  of  Messrs  Boas  (chair- 
man), Farrand,  and  Harlan  I.  Smith. 

Report  of  the  Treasurer 

Receipts 

Balance  fix>m  1903 %  53.83 

Anthropological  Society  of  Washington. 608.25 

Annual  dues 685.98 

Annual  subscriptions  to  American  Anthropologist  from  libraries..  369. 16 

Other  annual  subscriptions 462.15 

Sale  of  back  numbers 406.85 

Publication  fund 235.00 

Authors'  reprints  (at  cost) 151-57 

American  Ethnological  Society 230.76 

New  York  Academy  of  Sciences 62.50 

13,266^05 
Expenditures 

New  Era  Printing  Company,  for  printing,  binding,  and  mailing 

American  Anthropologist  and  for  reprints $1,744.06 

Stationery  and  job  printing,  including  1,500  copies  of  illustrated 

prospectus IOO.34 

Editor's  expenses,  including  advertising  back  numbers  and  mail- 
ing prospectus 144.31 

Illustrations  for  American  Anthropologist 188.70 

Letter-heads,  circulars,  etc 73-24 

Postage  and  petty  expenses  of  Secretary  and  Treasurer 68. 32 

Rebates  on  overpayments  (including  $30  paid  Anthropological 

Society  of  Washington  for  sale  of  Old  Series) 44- 15 

Binding  of  back  numbers  for  St.  Louis  Exposition 24.00 

Insurance  of  back  numbers 25.00 

$2,412.  i2 


1 76  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [s.  s.,  7,  1905 

The  following  were  elected  to  membership  in  the  Association : 

Edward  H.  Angle,  D.D.S.  Miss  Elizabeth  J.  Letson, 

Miss  Adela  Breton,  Reamer  Ling, 

Thomas  S.  Dedrick,  M.  D.,  Henry  Link, 

E.  W.  Deming,  Rev.  James  William  Lowber, 

Christopher  Easton,  Rev.  J.  D.  Marmor, 

William  H.  Ellsworth,  Owen  W.  Mills, 

Dr  William  H.  Fumess,  William  W.  Newell, 

W.  R.  Gerard,  Grace  Nicholson, 

Pliny  E.  Goddard,  Adolph  C.  Reichard, 

George  Byron  Gordon,  Francisco  M.  Rodriguez, 

R.  H.  Harper,  M.  D.,  Marshall  H.  Saville, 

C.  V.  Hartman,  Ph.D.,  Elizabeth  J.  Van  Beuren, 

George  G.  Heye,  Miss  Georgie  Van  Brunt, 

H.  E.  Hoopes,  Atreus  Wanner, 

L.  W.  Jenkins,  George  A.  West, 

A.  Kirschmann,  Ph.D.,  Clark  Wissler, 

Francis  LaFlesche,  Christopher  Wren. 

Amendments  to  the  constitution  were  proposed  by  Miss  Fletcher  and 
Messrs  Holmes  and  MacCurdy,  and  were  favorably  received  by  the 
Council.     They  are : 

Article  V,  Section  i,  second  and  third  lines:  Change  a  number  of 
councilors  to  be  determined  annually  to  twenty-four  councilors. 

Section  2,  third  and  fourth  lines :  Change  a  number  of  councilors  to 
be  determined  by  the  council  to  six  councilors. 

Section  3  :  Add  at  the  end  of  the  section :  Five  shall  constitute  a 
quorum. 

Section  7  :  Strike  out  at  the  end  of  the  section  :  of  whom  not  more 
than  one  shall  be  a  member  of  the  council. 

Article  VII,  Section  i  :  Strike  out  entirely. 

Section  2  :  Omit  from  first  sentence :  whose  chairmen  shall  be  mem- 
bers of  the  executive  committee. 

Resolutions  were  proposed  and  adopted  by  the  Association  as  follows : 

Resolved f  That  a  committee  be  appointed  to  represent  the  American 
Anthropological  Association  before  the  Committees  on  Public  Lands  of 
the  United  States  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives  at  meetings  of 
those  Committees  held  for  the  consideration  of  measures  for  the  preserva- 
tion of  antiquities,  and  that  this  committee  be  instructed  to  advocate  the 
acceptance  and  passage  of  the  particular  bill  that  seems  in  their  judgment 
to  cover  the  requirements  of  the  case  most  fully,  and  that  at  the  same 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOL  OGICAL  ASSOCIA  TION  I JJ 

time  meets  with  the  full  approval  of  the  Interior  Department,  which  De- 
partment has  control  of  all  public  lands  and  whose  agents  in  the  field 
must  be  relied  on  exclusively  for  custodianship  and  care  of  the  antiquities 
in  question.^ 

The  Committee  provided  for  in  the  resolutions  was  appointed  by  the 
chair  as  follows :  William  H.  Holmes  (Chairman  ex  officio) y  Edgar  L. 
Hewett  (Secretary),  George  A.  Dorsey,  Miss  Alice  C.  Fletcher,  George 
Grant  MacCurdy,  George  B.  Gordon,  A.  L.  Kroeber,  M.  H.  Saville, 
F.  W.  Putnam,  Stewart  Culin,  C.  V.  Hartman. 

The  election  of  officers  resulted  as  follows  :  President,  Frederic  W. 
Putnam;  Vice-President  to  serve  four  years,  William  H.  Holmes  ;  Vice- 
President  to  succeed  F.  W.  Putnam,  George  A.  Dorsey;  Secretary, 
George  Grant  MacCurdy  ;  Treasurer,  B.  Talbot  B.  Hyde  ;  Editor, 
F.  W.  Hodge. 

Members  of  the  Council  as  at  present  constituted  are  W  J  McGee, 
Frederic  W.  Putnam,  William  H.  Holmes,  Miss  Alice  C.  Fletcher,  George 
A.  Dorsey,  Franz  Boas,  George  Grant  MacCurdy,  B.  Talbot  B.  Hyde, 
F.  W.  Hodge,  Frank  Baker,  Charles  P.  Bowditch,  A.  F.  Chamberlain, 
Stewart  Culin,  Roland  B.  Dixon,  Livingston  Farrand,  J.  Walter  Fewkes, 
George  Byron  Gordon,  Edgar  L.  Hewett,  J.  N.  B.  Hewitt,  Walter 
Hough,  Ales  Hrdlicka,  A.  L.  Kjoeber,  Joseph  D.  McGuire,  Otis  T. 
Mason,  Washington  Matthews,  James  Mooney,  George  H.  Pepper,  Mar- 
shall H.  Saville,  Harlan  I.  Smith,  Frederick  Starr,  John  R.  Swan  ton. 
Of  these  the  first  nine  named  constitute  the  Executive  Committee. 

Special  meetings  of  the  Association  or  of  the  Council  may  be  called 
at  any  time.  A  special  meeting  will  be  held  at  Portland,  Oregon,  dur- 
ing the  summer,  the  date  to  be  determined  by  a  committee  appointed  for 
that  purpose. 

George  Grant  MacCurdy, 

YcUi  University  Museum^  Secretary, 

Nkw  Haven,  Conn. 


1  For  the  present  status  of  this  proposed  action  see  pages  164-166. 


AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  7— 12 


American  Anthropological  Association 

OFFICERS  AND  MEMBERS' 

April,  1905 


OFFICERS 

Pruxdbmt,  FREDERIC  W.  PUTNAM,  Cambridge. 

Vxcb-Prbsidbmt  X908,  WILLIAM  H.  HOLMES,  Waihington. 

Vxcs-PusiDENT  1907,  MISS  ALICE  C.  FLETCHER,  Washington. 

Vxcb-Prksidbnt  X906,  GEORGE  A.  DORSEY,  Chicago. 

Vics-Prbsxdbnt  X905,  FRANZ  BOAS,  New  York. 

Skckstaky,  GEORGE  GRANT  MACCURDY,  New  Haven. 

Treasubm,  B.  TALBOT  B.  HYDE,  New  York. 

Editok,   F.  W.  HODGE,  Washington. 

LIFE    MEMBERS 

MR  EDWARD  E.  AYER,^  MR  ARCHER  M.   HUNTINGTON.* 

Railway    Exchange    Building,     Chicago,  Baychester,   New  York. 

Illinois.  M.  LE  DUC  DE  LOUBAT,^ 

MR  CHARLES  P.  BOWDITCH,*  53  Rue  Dumont  d'Urville,  Paris. 

38  State  St.,   Boston,   Mass.  MR  CLARENCE  B.  MOORE,* 

132 1   Locust  St.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

MEMBERS 

MR  EDWARD  D.  ADAMS.*  MR  J.   W.    BENHAM,* 

35   Wall   St.,   New  Yoric   City.  ,38  West  42d  St.,  New  Yoric  Qty. 

DR  CYRUS  ADLER,  dR  FRANZ  BOAS.* 

Smithsonian      Institution,      Washington,  American  Museum  of  Natural   History. 

^-  C.  New  York  City. 

DR  JUAN  B.  AMBROSETTI,*  qr   dAVID   BOYLE.* 

Museo   Nadonal.   Buenos  Aires,  Argen-           ^^p^     ^^    Education.    Toronto,    Canada. 

,>«  ^^,,*«T>  «     *xT^r^  DR  J.   C.    BRANNER.* 

DR  EDWARD  a  ANGLE.  Stanford  University.  CaUfomia. 

DR  F^k^^l^'  ^""'^'^    ^^^^   ^^^^  BRETON, 

National   Zoological    Park,  Washington,  St    Margaret's    House,    Rochester. 

D    C  land. 

DR  GEORGE  BARRIE.*  ^^  ^'  ^-   BRITTIN,* 

S13X    Mass.    ave.,    N.    W.,  Washington.  Englcwood.  New  Jersey. 

D,  c.  MR  H.  G.  BRYANT.* 

COL.  PAUL  BECKWITH,*  2013  Walnut  st.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

U.    S.    National    Museum,  Washington,    MR  G.  H.  BUEK, 
D.  C.  52    East    X9th  St..   New  York   City. 

i  Members  whose  names  are  marked  with  an  asterisk  (*)  are  Founders  of  the 
dation. 

178 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION 


179 


MRS   EMMA  F.  JAY  BULLENE,^ 

X431    Court  Place,   Denver,   Colormdo. 

DR  E.  S.  BURGESS/ 

xz  West  88th  it.  New  York  Qty. 
DAVID  I.   BUSHNELL,   Sr-, 

4254  Olive  ft,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 
DR  AMOS  W.  BUTLER,* 

State  House,   Indianapolis,  Indiana. 
MR  H.  H.  CAMMANN,* 

43  West  38th  St.,  New  York  City. 
DR  ALEXANDER  F.  CHAMBERLAIN,* 

Clark  University,   Worcester,   Mass. 

DR  ALFREDO  CHAVERO. 

Avenida    de    Madrid,    No.    37,    City    of 

Mexico,   Mexico. 
MRS  KATE  FOOTE  COE. 

Drawer  i.  New  Haven,  Conn. 
REV  H.  P.  COLLIN. 

Coldwater,  Michisran. 
MR  STEWART  CULIN.* 

Brooklyn    Institute    Museum,    Brooklyn, 

N.  Y. 
DR  R.  G.  CURTIN,* 

22    South    i8th    St,    Philadelphia,    Pa. 
PROF.   M.  M.   CURTIS,* 

Western   Reserve   University,   Qcvcland, 

Ohio. 
DR  WILLIAM  HARPER  DAVIS,* 

Lehigh  University,  South  Bethlehem,  Pa. 
DR  THOMAS   S.    DEDRICK, 

3147    N.    Broad   St.,   Philadelphia,    Pa. 
MR  F.  S.  DELLENBAUGH,* 

16  West  6 1  St  St.,   New  York  City. 
MR  E.  W.   DEMING, 

21  W.  24th  St.,  New  York  City. 
MR  G.    E.   DIMOCK,* 

Elizabeth,    New   Jersey. 
DR  ROLAND  B.  DIXON,* 

Harvard  University,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
PROF.   R.    E.   DODGE,* 

Teachers    Collej^c,    Columbia    University, 

New  York  City. 
DR  DAVID  J.  DOHERTY, 

582  La  Salle  ave.,  Chicago,  111. 
DR   GEORGE   A.    DORSEY,* 

Field   Coltmibian    Museum,    Chicago,    III. 
MISS  CONSTANCE  GODDARD  DU  BOIS,* 

Waterbury,   Connecticut. 
MR  CHRISTOPHER  EASTON, 

290  Thames  St.,  Newport,   R.  I. 
MR  WILLIAM  H.  ELLSWORTH. 

3302  Wells  St.,  Milwaukee.  Wis. 
DR  WM.   C.   FARABEE, 

Peabody  Museum,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
PROF.  AMOS  W.  FARNHAM, 

State  Normal  School,  Oswego,  New  York. 
DR  LIVINGSTON  FARRAND,* 

Columbia  University,  New  York  City. 


DR  J.  WALTER  FEWKES.* 

Bureau  of  American   Ethnology,   Waab- 

ington,   D.   C. 
DR  CARL  FISCH, 

3212  Pine  St.,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 
DR  MAURICE  FISHBERG, 

79  West  115th  St.,  New  York  City. 
PROF.  IRVING  FISHER, 

460  Prospect  St.,   New  Haven,  Conn. 
MISS  AUCE  C.  FLETCHER,* 

2x4  First  St.,  S.  E.,  Washington,  D.  C 
DR  J.  M.  FLINT,* 

U.    S.    National    Museum,    Washington, 

D.  C. 
DR   WESTON    FLINT,* 

The  Cecil,  Washington,  D.  C. 
DR   DANIEL  FOLKMAR,* 

Bontoc,  Lcpanto-Bontoc  Province,  Philip- 
pine  Islands. 
DR   WILLIAM   H.   FURNESS,  3d. 

Museum  of  Science  and  Art,  University 

of    Pennsylvania,    Philadelphia,    Pa. 
DR  DAWIEL  GARCIA, 

Hospital    Militar,    Guadalajara,    Jalisco, 

Mexico. 
DR  E,  GATES,* 

Chevy   Chase,   Maryland. 
MR  WILLIAM  R.  GERARD, 

65  West  io8th  St.,  New  York  City. 
PROF.  FRANKLIN  H.  GIDDINGS. 

Columbia  University,  New  York  City. 
DR  PLINY  E.  GODDARD, 

Affiliated  Colleges,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 
PROF.  W.  H.  GOODYEAR,* 

Brooklyn    Institute    Museum,    Brooklyxi, 

New  York. 
DR  GEORGE  BYRON  GORDON, 

Museum  of  Science  and  Art,  University 

of   Pennsylvania,    Philadelphia.    Pa. 
DR  GEORGE  BIRD  GRINNELL,* 

346    Broadway,    New   York    City. 
MR   STANSBURY  HAGAR,* 

62  Wall  St.,   New  York  City. 
MRS  JOHN  HAYS  HAMMOND,* 

32  Riverside  Drive,  New  York  City. 
DR  R.  H.  HARPER, 

Afton,  Indian  Territory. 
DR  C.  V.  HARTMAN. 

Carnegie  Museum,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 
MR  JOHN  WALTER  HASTINGS, 

Hastings      Hall,      Harvard      University, 

Cambridge,    Mass. 
DR  HENRY  W.  HAYNES,* 

239  Beacon  st..  Boston,  Massachusetts. 
MRS  PHOEBE  A.  HEARST,* 

Pleasanton.  California. 
MR    RICHARD   HERMANN,* 

Dubuque,    Iowa. 
MRS  ESTHER  HERRMAN,* 

59   West   56th   St.,   New   York   City. 


i8o 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


PROF.  EDGAR  L.  HEWETT/ 

Care  U  S.  National  Miuenin,  Wadiinf- 

ton,  D.  C 
MR  J.  N.  B.  HEWITT/ 

Bureau  of  American   Ethnology,   Wath- 

xngton,    D.    C. 
MR  GEORGE  G.  HEYE» 

52  Broadway,  New  York  Gty. 
MR  WILLIAM  B.  HILL, 

68  William  at..   New  York  City,  N.  Y. 
MR  F.  W.  HODGE,* 

Smithsonian      Institution,      Washington, 

D.  C. 
DR  RICHARD  HODGSON.* 

5  Boyleston  PI.,  Boston,  Mass. 
DR  WILLIAM  J.  HOLLAND,* 

Carnegie   Museum,   Pittsburg,    Pa. 
MR  WILLIAM  H.  HOLMES,* 

Bureau   of   American   Ethnology,   Wash- 
ington,  D.   C. 
MR  H.  E.  HOOPES, 

Media,   Pennsylvania. 
DR  WALTER  HOUGH,* 

U.    S.    National    Museum,    Washington, 

D.  C. 
DR  ALES  HRDLICKA, 

U.    S.    National    Museum,    Washington, 

D.  C. 
MR  J.  F.  HUCKEL,* 

Union  Station  Annex,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 
DR  J.  W.  HUDSON, 

Ukiah,  California. 
DR  H.  M.  HURD,* 

Johns  Hopkins  Hospital,  Baltimore,   Md. 
DR  JULIUS  H.  HURST, 

Box  173,  Sanford,  Florida. 
MR   DAVID  HUTCHESON,* 

Library  of  Congress,  Washington,  D.  C. 
MR  B.  TALBOT  B.  HYDE, 

20  West  53d  St.,  New  York  City. 
MISS  ELIZABETH  M.  HYDE,* 

aio  East  i8th  st.,  New  York  City. 
DR  H.  VON  IHERING, 

Musco  Paulista,  Sao  Paulo,  Brazil. 
MR    G.    WHARTON    JAMES,* 

Care  The  Craftsman,   Syracuse,  N.  Y. 
DR   H.   JAYNE,* 

Wistar    Institute,     University    of    Penn- 
sylvania,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
DR  ALBERT  ERNEST  JENKS, 

Ethnological    Survey,    Manila,    P.    I. 
DR  L.  W.  JENKINS, 

Peabody    Academy    of    Science,    Salem, 

Mass. 
DR   PHILIP   MILLS   JONES,* 

Room  I,  Y.  M.  C.  A.   Bldg.,  San  Fran- 
cisco,  Cal. 
DR    DAVID    STARR   JORDAN,* 

Stanford  University,  California. 


DR  C  H.  JUDD, 

Yale  UniTcraity,  New  Haven,  Comu 
DR  HERMAN  F.  TEN  KATE, 

Batavia,  Java. 
DR  H.  KINNER,* 

X103  Rutger  at,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 
DR  A.   KIRSCHMANN, 

Toronto  University,  Toronto,  Canada. 
DR  GEORGE  M.  KOBER,* 

1600  T  St.,  Washington,  D.  C. 
DR  A.  L.  KROEBER,* 

Affiliated  Colleges,  San  Francisco,  CaL 
MR  FRANCIS  LA  FLESCHE, 

ax4  First  at.,  S.  E.,  Washington,  D.  C 
DR  R.  LEHMANN-NITSCHE,* 

Museo  de  la  Plata,  La  Plata,  Argentina. 
DR  J.  S.  LEMON,* 

Gardner,  Mass. 
DR  RODOLFO  LENZ, 

Casilla  844,  Santiago  de  Chile,  Chile. 
DR  NICOLAS  LEON, 

I  a  del  Fresno,  No.  1510,  City  of  Mexico. 
MISS  ELIZABETH  J,  LETSON, 

Buffalo     Society    of    Natural     Science^ 

Buffalo,   N.   Y. 
MR  EDWARD  LINDSEY,* 

Warren,   Pa. 
MR  REAMER  LING, 

St.   Johns,   Arizona. 
MR  HENRY  LINK. 

R.   F.   D.  3,  Waterloo,  Indiana. 
MR  WALTER  S.  LOGAN,* 

27  William  St.,  New  York  Qty. 
MR  M.  C.  LONG,* 

Missouri  ave.  and  Main  St.,  Kansaa  City, 

Missouri. 
REV.  DR  JAMES  WILLIAM  LOWBER, 

Austin,   Texas. 
DR  CARL  LUMHOLTZ,* 

16  West  9th  St.,  New  York  City. 
MR  D.  WILLARD  LYON, 

Y.  M.  C.  A.,  IS  B,  Peking  Road,  Shang- 
hai,  China. 
DR  J.   II.   McCORMICK, 

The  Stanton,  Washington.  D.  C. 
MR  STANLEY  McCORMICK,* 

7  Monroe  St.,  Chicago,  Ills. 
MR  GEORGE  GRANT  MACCURDY,* 

Yale    University   Museum,    New   Haven, 

Connecticut. 
DR  J.  B.  >tcGEE,* 

X405  Woodland  ave.,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 
DR   W   J   McGEE,* 

X90X    Baltimore   St.,    Washington,   D.    C 
MR  J.   D.   McGUIRE,* 

X834  1 6th  St.,  Washington,  D.  C. 
PROF.  JOHN  J.  McNULTY, 

17  Lexington  ave.,  New  York  City. 
MISS   EVA  MANNING, 

X330  Columbia  Road,  Washington,  D.  C 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION 


i8i 


DR  F.  W.  BiARLOW,* 

joo  Highland  sL,  STractiae,  New  York. 
REV.  J.  D.  MARMOR, 

X638  Madison  ave..  New  York  City. 
MISS  MYRA  B.  MARTIN,* 

27  WiUiam  at.  New  York  Oty. 
DR  OTIS  T.  MASON/ 

U.    S.    National    Muaeum,    Waahington, 

D.  C. 
MR  ALBERT  MATTHEWS,* 

X4S  Beacon  sL,  Boston,  Maas. 
DR  JOHN  C.  MERRIAM, 

University    of     California,     San     Fran' 

dsco,  Cal. 
DR  MERTON  L.  MILLER,* 

Ethnological  Survey,  Manila,  P.  L 
MR  OWEN  W.  MILLS, 

Millbury,  Mass. 
MR  W.  C.  MILLS,* 

State  University,  Columbus,  Ohio. 
MR  E.  J.  MOLERA,* 

606  Clay  St,  San  Francisco,  California. 
PROF.  WILL  S.  MONROE, 

State  Normal  School,  Westfield,  Mass. 
MR  JAMES  MOONEY,* 

Bureau  of  American   Ethnology,   Waah- 

ington,  D.  C. 
MR  GEORGE  F.  MOORE, 

X825  Park  Row  Building,  New  York  City. 
MR  WARREN  K.  MOOREHEAD,* 

Phillips  Academy,  Andover,   Mass. 
DR.  T.  F.  MOSES,* 

Worcester  Lane,  Waltham,  Mass. 
MR  L.  F.  MOTT,* 

17  Lexington   avc,   New  York  City. 

fllTjOHN  MURDOCH,* 

Public  Library,  Boston,  Mass. 
MR  WILLIAM  NELSON,* 

152  Market  st,  Paterson,  N.  J. 
DR  C.  F.  NEWCOMBE, 

X05  Niagara  St.,  Victoria,  B.  C. 
DR  W.  W.  NEWELL, 

Cambridge,  Mass. 
MISS  GRACE  NICHOLSON, 

46  North  Los  Robles  ave.,  Pasadena,  CaL 
DR  R.  J.  NUNN,* 

119  York  St.,  Savannah,  Georgia. 
MRS    ZELIA    NUTTALL,* 

Casa  Alvarado,  Coyoac4n,  D.  F.,  Mexico. 
MR  C.  L.  OWEN,* 

Field   Columbian   Museum,   Chicago,   111. 
MISS   MARY  A.   OWEN,* 

306  North  9th  st.,  St.  Joseph,  Mo. 
MR  VICTOR  H.  PALTSITS, 

Lenox  Library,  New  York  City. 
DR  WILLIAM  F.  PARKS, 

X027  Goodfellow  ave.,  St  Louis,  Mo. 
MR  H.  H.  PARSONS,* 

84  Griswold  st,  Detroit  Michigan. 


DR  CHARLES  PEABODY,* 

X97  Brattle  St.,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
MRS  LUCY  E.  PEABODY,* 

1430  Corona  st,  Denver,  Colorado. 
PROF.  J.  E.  PEARCE,* 

High  School,  Austin,  Texas. 
MR  HAROLD  PEIRCE,* 

^^%   Drexel   Building,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 
MR  GEORGE  H.  PEPPER, 

American   Museum  of  Natural  ffistory. 

New  York  City. 
PROF.  G.  H.  PERKINS,* 

Burlington,  Vermont 
DR  C  A.  PETERSON,* 

P.  O.  Box  980,  St  Louis,  Missouri. 
DR  W.  A.  PHILLIPS, 

17 IX  Hinman  ave.,  Evanston,  111. 
DR  H.  PITTIER  DE  fAbREGA,* 

San  Jos6,  Costa  Rica. 
MR  A.  PRATT  Ja,* 

26  Bunnell  st,  Bridgeport  Connecticut 
PROF.  J.  DYNELEY  PRINCE,* 

Columbia  University,  New  York  Gty. 
DR   T.    MITCHELL  PRUDDEN,* 

x6o  West  59th  st.  New  York  City. 
PROF.  F.  W.  PUTNAM,* 

Peabody    Museum,    Cambridge,    Mass. 
DR  S.  H.  QUINT, 

Ixtlan,    Del    Rio,    Territorio    del    Tepxc, 

Mexico. 
DR  ADOLPH  C.  REICHARD, 

Oberlindau    78,    Frankfurt,    a/M.,    Ger- 
many. 
MR   E.    W.    RICKER,* 

P.  O.  Box  5083,  Boston,  Massachusetts. 
MR   R.    H.    RILEY,* 

1 8th  ave.  and  84th  st,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 
DR  S.  A.  ROBINSON,* 

Covesville,  Va. 
DR  FRANCISCO  M.  RODRIGUEZ, 

Museo  Nacional,  City  of  Mexico,  Mexico. 
MR  WILLIAM  E.  SAFFORD, 

Department  of  Agriculture,  Waahington, 

D.  C. 
PROF.  MARSHALL  H.  SAVILLE, 

American   Museum  of   Natural   History, 

New  York  City. 
MR   SIDNEY   B.    SCHUYLER. 

705  Market  st.,  St  Louis,  Mo. 
COL.  H.  L.  SCOTT,  U.  S.  A.,* 

Manila,   Philippine  Islands. 
MISS  S.  A.  SCULL,* 

401  Water  st.,  Smethport  Pennsylvania. 
MRS  MARIANNA  P.  SEAMAN,* 

1424  Eleventh  st,   N.  W.,  Washington, 

D.  C. 
MR  A.  E.  SHELDON, 

Lincoln,   Neb. 
MR  S.  C.  SIMMS,* 

Field  Columbian  Museum,   Chicago,   111. 


l82 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[M.  s.,  7,  1905 


DR  C   E.   SLOCUM/ 

Defiance   Ohio. 
MR  HARLAN  I.  SMITH, 

American  Museum  of  Natural  Hiitory, 

New  York  City. 
MR  FRANK  G.  SPECK, 

Hackensack,    N.   J. 
DR  EDWARD  ANTHONY  SPITZKA. 

ft^  East  73d  St,  New  York  City. 
DR  FREDERICK  STARR/ 

Chicago   University,    Chicago,    Illinois. 

MR  VILHJALMUR   ST^FANSSON, 

Peabody  Museum,   Cambridge,  Mass. 
DR  KARL  VON  DEN  STEINEN, 

Hardenbergstr.   24,   Charlottenburg,   Ber- 
lin, Germany. 
DR   ROLAND    STEINER,* 

Grovetown,  Georgia. 
DR  JAMES  F.  STEVENS,* 

1 136  O  St.,  Lincoln,  Nebraska. 
PROF.  WILLIAM  G.  SUMNER, 

240  Edwards  St.,  New  Haven,  Conn. 
DR  JOHN   R.    SWANTON,* 

Bureau  of  American   Ethnology,   Wash- 
ington,   D.    C. 
MR  BENJAMIN  THAW,* 

Moorewood  Place,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 
DR  ALTON  H.  THOMPSON,* 

730  Kansas  ave.,  Topeka,  Kansas. 
PROF.  E.  L.  THORNDIKE,* 

Columbia  University,  New  York  City. 
MR  WILLIAM  WALLACE  TOOKER,* 

Sag  Harbor,  New  York. 
DR  A.  M.  TOZZER.* 

Peabody  Museum,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
DR  MAX  UHLE, 

Afiiliated  Colleges,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 
MR  H.   H.   VAIL,* 

American  Book  Co.,  Washington  Square, 

New  York  City. 
ELIZABETH  J.   VAN   BEUREN, 

21  West  14th  St,  New  York  City. 
MISS  GEORGIE  VAN  BRUNT, 

20  East  46th  St.,  New  York  City. 


DR  T.  WAYLAND  VAUGHAN,* 

U.    S.    National    Museum,    Washingtoii, 

D.  C 
REV.  S.  P.  VERNER,* 

Tryon,  N.  C. 
MR  A.  C.  VROMAN,* 

Pasadena,  California. 
HON.  R.  E.-M.  GREGORIE  D£  WALLANT^ 

Legadon  de  Russia,  4a  Bucareli*   18339 

City  of   Mexico. 
MR  ATREUS  WANNER, 

Yoric,  Pennsylvania. 
MISS  H.  NEWELL  WARDLE,* 

Academy  of  Natural  Sciences,  Philadel- 
phia,   Pennsylvania. 
PROF.  H.  C.  WARREN,* 

Princeton,  New  Jersey. 
REV.  ANSELM  WEBER,  O.F.M., 

St.  Michaels,  Arizona. 
MR  F.  S.  WEBSTER,* 

Carnegie  Musetmi,   Pittsburg,   Pa. 
MR  GEORGE  A.  WEST, 

Hisrhland  Boulevard,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 
DR  M.   F.   WHEATLAND,* 

84  John  st,  Newport,  Rhode  Island. 
JUDGE   JAMES    WICKERSHAM,* 

Tacoma,  Washington. 
DR  HARRIS  H.  WILDER, 

Smith  College,  Northampton,  Mass. 
MR  C.  C.  WILLOUGHBY,* 

Peabody  Museum,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
PROF.  N.  H.  WINCHELL, 

University    of    Minnesota,    Minneapolis 

Minnesota. 
DR   CLARK   WISSLER, 

528  West  123d  st,  New  York  City. 
DR  DEAN  C.  WORCESTER,* 

Manila,   Philippine  Islands. 
MR   CHRISTOPHER  WREN, 

Centre  st.,   Plymouth,   Pennsylvania. 
PROF.    GEORGE   FREDERICK  WRIGHT, 

Oberlin,  Ohio. 


DECEASED    MEMBERS 


GUSTAV    BRt/HL.* 
M.   A.    CLANCY.* 
WILLIAM   E.    DODGE.* 
GEORGE  J.  ENGELMANN.' 


JOHN  H.  HINTON.* 
WASHINGTON  MATTHEWS.* 
J.    W.    POWELL.* 
FRANK  RUSSELL.* 


\ 


j 


Vv, 


\OlV). 


MCRUSTED  OBJECT!  FROM   PUEBLO  BOHITO,   NEW  MEXICO 


American  Anthropologist 


NEW  SERIES 


Vol.  7  April-June,  1905  No.  2 

CEREMONIAL  OBJECTS  AND   ORNAMENTS   FROM 
PUEBLO   BONITO,   NEW   MEXICO 

By  GEORGE  H.  PEPPER 

INTRODUCTION 

In  northwestern  New  Mexico  there  is  a  group  of  ruined  pueblos 
that  stretch  for  miles  along  the  fertile  valleys  and  mesa  tops. 
The  Chaco  caiion  proper  contains  the  major  portion  of  these  ruins, 
one  of  the  greatest  of  which  in  point  of  interest  is  Pueblo  Bonito. 
The  writer  visited  and  explored  parts  of  this  ruin  in  the  summer  of 
1896,  and  the  investigations  were  continued  thereafter  for  several 
years.  This  work,  which  was  made  possible  by  Mr  B.  T.  B.  Hyde 
and  Mr  F.  E.  Hyde,  Jr,  of  New  York  city,  was  planned  by  Prof. 
F.  W.  Putnam,  and  the  material  collected  is  now  in  the  American 
Museum  of  Natural  History. 

Pueblo  Bonito  is  near  the  western  end  of  the  canon  and  may  be 
reached  by  driving  65  miles  northward  from  Thoreau,  a  station  on 
the  Santa  Fe  Pacific  railroad,  near  Gallup,  New  Mexico.  It  was 
one  of  the  homes  of  an  ancient  sedentary  people  who  grouped  their 
houses  into  great  many-celled  structures  and  surrounded  them  with 
a  strong  defensive  wall,  thereby  making  the  town  a  fortress  as  well 
as  a  place  of  habitation.  Pueblo  Bonito,  like  the  other  ancient 
settlements  in  the  canon,  is  now  in  ruins,  and  many  of  the  rooms 
are  completely  covered  with  debris  and  drifted  sand.  The  building 
as  a  unit  measures  more  than  500  feet  in  length  ;  the  lesser  axis  is 
somewhat  more  than  300  feet.  It  is  semicircular  in  form,  the 
rounded  portion  enclosing  the  structure  on  the  east,  north,  and 
west,  while  the  southern  side  was  protected  by  a  straight  wall  of 
heavy  masonry.     The  stones  used  in  the  building  were  taken  from 

AM.  ANTM.,  N.  S.,  7— 13  ^83 


1 84  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

the  adjacent  sandstone  cliffs,  the  work  of  quarrying  being  greatly 
facilitated  by  the  natural  cleavage. 

The  age  of  Pueblo  Bonito  is  still  in  doubt,  but  nothing  was 
found  during  its  excavation  to  show  that  its  former  occupants  ever 
had  intercourse  with  the  Spaniards.  The  first  mention  of  the 
pueblo  was  made  by  Josiah  Gregg,^  in  1844.  Since  that  time  it 
has  been  visited  by  soldiers  and  travelers,  and  several  descriptions 
of  it  have  been  written.  Gen.  James  H.  Simpson  *  and  Mr  William 
H.  Jackson  ^  made  careful  studies  of  the  ruin  and  published  accounts 
in  1850  and  1878,  respectively. 

POSITION   OF   ROOM    38 

During  the  season  of  1896  we  were  enabled  to  uncover  a  series 
of  rooms  extending  along  the  outer  wall  of  the  northern  part  of  the 
ruin.  The  major  portion  of  this  first  year's  operations  was  confined 
to  the  north  central  and  northwestern  parts  of  the  pueblo,  although 
a  sufficient  number  of  rooms  were  opened  in  other  portions  to  fur- 
nish data  concerning  the  style  of  masonry  of  the  upper  series  and 
also  of  that  of  the  underlying  ones.  The  results  of  these  excava- 
tions governed  to  a  large  extent  the  plans  for  the  work  of  the  suc- 
ceeding season.  Owing  to  the  great  size  of  the  ruin,  little  could  be 
accomplished  in  one  season  of  field  work ;  it  was  therefore  a  ques- 
tion of  obtaining  a  representative  collection  of  objects,  together  with 
sufficient  data  concerning  the  older  portions  of  the  pueblo  to  enable 
us  to  gain  an  idea  of  the  duration  of  the  period  of  occupancy. 

The  first  work  in  1897  was  the  continuation  of  excavations  in  a 
row  of  rooms  constituting  the  third  series  of  the  northern  or  curved 
part  of  the  building.  The  debris  was  removed  from  the  western 
extension  of  this  series,  and  some  very  interesting  specimens  were 
found  on  the  floors.  One  of  the  first  rooms  to  receive  attention 
during  this  season  was  that  designated  No.  38  in  the  field  notes. 
Its  position  may  be  seen  in  the  accompanying  illustration  (plate 
xviii). 

1  Josiah  Gregg,  Commerce  of  the  Prairies^  I,  284-85,  1844. 

*J.  H.  Simpson,  Journal  of  a  Military  Reconnaissance  from  Santa  />,  New 
Mexico f  to  the  Navajo  Country ^  Washington,    1 850. 

3Wm.  H.  Jackson,  Ruins  of  the  Chaco  Caflon,  Examined  in  iSjj;  Tenth  Rep. 
Hayden  Survey,  pt.  Ill,  Washington,  1878. 


PEPPER]        CEREMONIAL  OBJECTS  FROM  PUEBLO  BONJTO  185 

Room  38  was  generally  rectangular ;  its  north  and  south  walls 
were  curved,  but  not  to  an  appreciable  extent.  The  room  was  filled 
with  debris  consisting  of  sandstone  slabs  from  the  fallen  walls,  de- 
caying ceiling  beams,  and  the  adobe  floors  of  upper  rooms  with 
whatever  objects  were  on  them  when  they  gradually  weakened  and 
finally  collapsed.  On  this  account  many  objects  of  scientific  inter- 
est were  broken  or  scattered  through  the  debris. 

THE   PLATFORM    CONTAINING   CEREMONIAL  OBJECTS 

The  work  in  room  38  brought  to  light  an  interesting  collection 
of  material,  the  greater  part  of  which  was  of  a  ceremonial  character, 
or  at  least  might  have  been  used  in  sacred  observances. 

The  eastern  end  of  the  room  was  excavated  to  a  depth  of  sev- 
eral feet  and  the  work  was  then  carried  westward.  Nothing  of  par- 
ticular interest  was  found  in  the  upper  layers,  but  the  removal  of 
the  stones  and  the  fallen  beams  was  still  in  progress  when  a  plat- 
form was  uncovered.  The  first  evidence  of  this  structure  was  a 
peculiar  projecting  wall,  six  inches  thick  and  extending  in  a  north- 
westerly direction.  It  was  attached  to  the  south  wall  and  had  been 
used  as  a  support  for  a  beam  that  entered  the  north  wall  at  a  point 
opposite.  The  western  support  of  the  platform  was  upheld  by 
posts,  but  these  and  the  poles  that  had  formed  its  upper  surface 
were  no  longer  in  position ;  they  had  been  crushed  by  the  weigh 
of  the  debris  and,  when  uncovered,  were  greatly  decayed. 

CEREMONIAL   OBJECTS    IN    SITU 

One  of  our  Navaho  laborers  was  excavating  in  the  western  part 
of  the  room  and  had  reached  the  point  where  the  fallen  masonry 
ended,  when  he  encountered  the  first  evidence  of  a  ceremonial  de- 
posit. At  the  end  of  a  horizontal  stroke  we  noticed  that  the  Indian 
had  broken  an  object  of  bone,  and  investigation  showed  that  it  was 
inlaid  with  turquoise  and  jet.  The  extremities  of  the  bone  had 
been  shattered,  but  fortunately  the  mosaic  itself  had  not  been  in- 
jured. 

The  utmost  care  was  necessary  in  uncovering  this  specimen  and 
the  objects  that  surrounded  it.  When  the  brush  and  stylus  had 
removed  the  sand  from  about  the  bone,  it  proved  to  be  of  the  so- 


A 


1 86  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

called  scraper  form.  It  had  been  completely  covered  with  drift- 
sand  and  was  lying  with  the  blade  pointing  toward  the  west. 
Directly  south  of  and  almost  touching  this  scraper  was  another  of 
similar  shape  and  size.  The  first  one  was  lying  with  the  rounded 
portion  upward,  whereas  this  rested  upon  its  convex  surface.  It 
was  observed  that  the  second  scraper  had  also  been  inlaid,  but 
owing  to  the  fact  that  the  inlaid  surface  was  downward,  there  was 
no  support  for  the  tesserae  and  most  of  them  had  fallen  out. 

For  convenience  the  field  numbers  will  here  be  used  in  referring 
to  the  scrapers  and  the  objects  found  with  them.  The  first  scraper 
will  be  known  as  No.  9  and  its  companion  as  No.  10.  In  plate  xix 
these  mosaic  pieces  are  shown  in  situ  with  the  smaller  specimens 
grouped  a  little  to  the  north  of  them.  The  first  object  uncovered 
near  the  scrapers  was  a  pendant  of  turquoise  (No.  11);  it  was  two 
inches  east  of  and  opposite  the  central  portion  of  No.  10.  The 
next  specimen,  also  a  turquoise  pendant  (No.  12),  was  found  an 
inch  west  of  No.  10,  in  the  angle  formed  by  the  two  scrapers. 
Both  of  these  pendants  were  at  the  level  of  the  lower  surface  of  the 
scrapers.  A  depth  of  several  inches  was  reached  before  the  next 
object  was  found ;  but  the  remaining  specimens  will  be  considered 
according  to  the  arbitrary  numbering  of  the  field  notes  instead  of 
allowing  their  depth  to  govern  the  sequence. 

No.  I  is  a  bird  form,  made  of  decomposed  turquoise ;  it  was 
found  below  the  level  of  the  scrapers  and  is  in  good  condition. 
No.  2  is  also  a  bird  form  ;  it  was  three  inches  below  the  level  of 
No.  9,  and  was  lying  on  its  left  side,  the  head  pointing  toward  the 
north.  No.  3,  a  turquoise  pendant,  was  found  near  No.  2.  No.  4 
is  the  third  bird  form  that  was  uncovered ;  it  was  resting  in  a 
natural  position,  with  the  head  pointing  southward,  at  a  depth  of  an 
inch  and  a  half  lower  than  the  scrapers.  No.  5  is  another  turquoise 
bird ;  it  was  found  six  inches  below  No.  9,  and  was  lying  with  its 
head  toward  the  northeast.  No.  6  is  the  tail  portion  only  of  a  bird 
of  turquoise  and  was  found  four  and  a  half  inches  below  the  level 
of  No.  9.  Several  fragments  of  the  same  bird  were  found  in  the 
surrounding  sand.  Nos.  7  and  8  are  beads  made  of  jet ;  they  were 
found  six  inches  below  the  scrapers.  As  the  four  succeeding  num- 
bers, the  scrapers  and  pendants,  have  been  noted,  and  as  they  will 


PEPPER]        CEREMONIAL  OBJECTS  FROM  PUEBLO  BONITO  1 87 

be  treated  more  in  detail  when  the  esthetic  aspect  of  the  specimens 
is  considered,  No.  13,  which  is  a  large  slab  of  jet  perforated  for 
suspension,  will  now  be  referred  to.  This  specimen  was  found  only 
half  an  inch  northwest  of  No.  4,  and  the  largest  fragment  was  on 
the  same  level.  Specimens  11,  12,  and  13  are  not  shown  in  the 
photograph.  Of  the  remaining  objects,  Nos.  2,  3,  4,  5,  and  6  are 
in  situ  ;  Nos.  i,  7,  and  8  were  removed  in  the  work  of  uncovering 
the  other  specimens,  but  were  replaced  within  an  inch  of  their 
original  positions. 

THE    INLAID   SCRAPERS 

Bone  implements  of  the  type  represented  in  the  accompanying 
photograph  (plate  xix)  are  found  throughout  the  ancient  Pueblo 
region  of  the  Southwest.  They  are  known  by  several  names,  the 
most  usual  of  which  is  "  bone  scraper,"  and  this  term  will  here  be 
employed.  They  are  generally  made  from  the  humeri  of  deer,  elk, 
or  antelope,  and  are  found  of  all  sizes.  The  average  is  about  six 
inches,  but  they  range  from  two  to  eight  inches  in  length,  and  of 
relative  width. 

Pueblo  Bonito  has  furnished  a  large  number  of  specimens  of 
this  particular  type  of  implement,  and  from  its  occurrence  throughout 
the  pueblo  it  would  seem  to  have  been  an  object  of  general  use. 
The  refuse  heaps,  and  the  rooms  that  had  been  abandoned  to  be- 
come receptacles  for  the  sweepings  from  the  houses,  contributed 
a  good  share  of  these  implements  in  the  collection.  Almost  all  of 
them  showed  use  and  many  were  broken. 

The  bone  scrapers  from  Pueblo  Bonito  were  rarely  decorated ; 
but  when  ornamentation  occurred,  it  was  generally  in  the  form  of 
incised  designs,  such  as  cross-hatching,  meanders,  and  animal 
forms.  There  is  but  one  specimen  similar  to  the  incrusted  ones 
which  we  are  about  to  consider.  It  was  found  in  a  fragmentary 
condition  in  Room  170,  but  there  are  evidences  that  it  had  been 
prepared  for  the  reception  of  an  inlay  similar  to  that  shown  in  the 
colored  frontispiece.     This  specimen  is  shown  in  figure  3. 

The  inlaid  scraper  as  represented  by  the  colored  plate  is  slightly 
reduced  in  size.  It  is  the  distal  or  elbow  end  of  the  humerus  of 
one  of  the  large  ungulates,  the  animal  being  either  a  large  black- 
tail  deer  or  a  small  elk.     In  preparing  the  bone  for  the  reception 


l88  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  (N.  S.,  7,  1905 

of  the  inlay,  the  usual  method  was  no  doubt  employed.  A  groove 
was  cut  with  a  stone  knife  in  one  side  of  the  humerus,  and  the  cut 
extended  until  it  encircled  the  bone.  This  process  was  continued 
lintil  the  bone  could  be  broken  apart.  The  cutting  away  of  the 
under  side  was  the  next  step.  This  was  accomplished  by  grinding, 
and  the  final  touches  to  the  edges  were  given  with  a  polishing  stone. 
In  scrapers  designed  for  every-day  use,  no  further  work  was  done  ; 
but  as  this  particular  specimen  was  intended  for  an  especial  use,  the 
maker  next  turned  attention  to  the  handle  end.  The  condyles  in 
their  natural  state  protrude  to  such  an  extent  that  the  symmetry  of 


Fig.  3. —  Scraper  prepued  foi  inlaying.     (Natural  size.) 

the  object  is  affected,  hence  these  were  ground  until  perfectly 
rounded,  and  presented,  as  viewed  transversely,  a  cylindrical  aspect, 
due  to  the  careful  rounding  of  the  under  parts  of  the  side  condyles. 
The  entire  surface  of  the  epiphysis  was  ground,  reducing  its  size 
considerably. 

In  preparing  for  the  work  of  incrustation,  a  broad  band  was  cut 
in  the  convex  surface  of  the  bone,  extending  from  edge  to  edge  of  the 
flattened  part.  This  groove  was  2  cm.  4.5  mm.  in  width,  and  was 
worked  to  such  depth  as  would  cause  the  tesserje  to  correspond 
with  the  general  surface  of  the  bone.  The  sides  of  the  cut  were 
trued  and  the  groove  was  then  ready  for  the  inlay. 

Piiion  gum  seems  to  have  been  the  medium  for  seating  the 
small  pieces  of  stone  and  shell.  A  layer  of  this  material  was  spread 
upon  the  bottom  of  the  cut,  and  upon  this  foundation  the  mosaic 
pattern  was  developed.  In  the  scraper  under  consideration  fifty-six 
pieces  were  used  in  the  work ;  of  these,  twenty  were  elongate  pieces 
of  jet ;  there  were  sixteen  pieces  of  turquoise  of  the  same  shape, 
ten  pyramidal   pieces  of  turquoise,  and   ten  pieces  of  red  gum. 


PBPPKR]        CEREMOmAL  OBJECTS  FROM  PUEBLO  BONITO     ^     189 

pointed,  as  were  the  turquoise  pieces  last  named,  and  made  to 
match  these  inlays,  thereby  forming  a  flat  finish  at  the  end  of  the 
band.  When  the  inlaying  was  completed,  the  surface  of  the  mosaic, 
as  well  as  that  of  the  bone,  was  polished. 

In  examining  the  design  and  execution  of  this  implement  one 
cannot  fail  to  observe  that  its  maker  had  an  excellent  appreciation 
of  decorative  art.  The  jet  and  turquoise  bands  are  placed  system- 
atically, while  the  colors  are  alternated  either  for  ceremonial  sym- 
bolism or  for  artistic  effect.  These  inlaid  bands  are  composed  of 
carefully  shaped  pieces,  being  not  only  rectangulated  but  concavo- 
convexed  in  order  that  they  may  conform  to  the  rounded  surface  of 
the  bone.  There  are  live  such  bands,  three  of  jet  and  two  of  tur- 
quoise, and  these  are  bordered  by  a  serrated  line  of  turquoise  com- 
posed of  a  series  of  pyramidal  pieces,  each  so  accurately  pointed 
by  grinding  that  they  gpve  a  beautiful  finish  to  the  highly  decorative 
band.     The  corresponding  inlays  of  red  gum  are  in  strong  contrast 


Fig.  4.  —  BoDc  sciaper  ( No.  10)  shoiring 


to  the  pointed  pieces  of  turquoise,  and  impart  a  richness  in  finish 
that  is  almost  unique  in  aboriginal  American  handiwork.  The  care 
with  which  the  inlays  were  adjusted  is  worthy  of  note.  The  bone 
is  but  2  cm.  7  mm.  in  width,  and  many  of  the  sets  are  quite 
elongate,  but  they  were  embedded  in  the  gum  in  such  a  way  that 
their  edges  match  perfectly,  while  the  contour  of  the  bone  is  care- 
fully preserved. 

The  second  scraper.  No.  10  (figure  4),  is  practically  a  duplicate 
of  the  one  just  described.  When  found,  five  of  the  tessera,  three 
of  turquoise  and  two  of  jet,  were  in  place.  From  their  position  and 
general  arrangement  it  would  seem  that  the  design  had  been  in  the 
form  of  a  half-meander  or  an  interlocking  fret.     Beneath  the  scraper 


192  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  \JA,  s.,  7,  1905 

The  frog  figure  accompanying  the  buckle  in  the  illustration  is 
carved  from  a  piece  of  jet  The  body  of  the  animal  is  beautifully 
rounded,  and  the  legs,  which  stand  out  in  relief,  their  bend  faith- 
fully portrayed,  and  the  toes  represented  by  means  of  deep  grooves, 
are  very  well  formed.  The  mouth  has  the  full  rounded  shape  seen 
also  in  frog-shaped  pottery  vessels  from  the  Chaco ;  and  the  eyes, 
consisting  of  two  large  pieces  of  turquoise,  firmly  set  and  highly 
polished,  stand  boldly  out  in  a  manner  characteristic  of  the  frog 
even  in  conventionalized  Indian  art.  Across  the  neck  there  is  a 
broad  inlaid  band  of  turquoise,  consisting  of  seven  tesserae  that  con- 
form to  the  general  level  of  the  jet.  One  of  the  triangular  sets  that 
formed  the  ends  of  the  band  is  missing. 

The  body  of  the  frog  has  been  polished,  but  it  is  now  crackled 
to  some  extent,  and  on  the  under  surface  there  is  evidence  of  the 
action  of  fire ;  enough  of  the  original  polish  remains,  however,  to 
convey  a  good  idea  of  what  the  appearance  of  the  object  must  have 
been  when  it  was  new. 

The  body  of  the  frog  is  i  cm.  7.5  mm.  thick,  8  cm.  1.5  mm. 
long,  and  6  cm.  5  mm.  wide.  The  width,  including  the  legs,  is  7 
cm.  1.5  mm.  The  balls  of  turquoise  that  form  the  eyes  are  8.5 
mm.  in  diameter  and  3  mm.  in  height.  The  object  was  drilled  for 
suspension,  the  holes  being  on  the  under  part  directly  beneath  the 
inlaid  band.  The  incision  made  to  receive  the  turquoise  pieces 
forming  the  band  was  cut  just  deep  enough  to  allow  them  to  sink 
to  the  level  of  the  surface,  save  at  the  ends  where  it  was  cut  through 
to  the  opposite  side.  At  these  points  the  openings  were  triangular, 
and  in  cutting  them  through  a  separation  was  formed  between  the 
feet  and  the  body,  the  parts  being  joined  again  at  the  point  where 
the  head  and  the  toes  meet. 

The  frog  or  the  toad  is  a  symbol  of  water  among  the  Pueblo 
people  of  to-day,  and  there  are  numerous  evidences  tending  to  show 
that  the  same  water  symbol  was  employed  by  the  ancient  inhabi- 
tants to  as  great  an  extent  as  by  their  descendants.  In  Pueblo 
Bonito  and  in  nearby  villages  it  has  been  found  in  the  form  of  pot- 
tery vessels,  as  well  as  carved  from  pure  turquoise  and  scratched 
on  stone  slabs.  Tadpole  figures,  which  are  also  water  symbols, 
are  likewise  represented  in  turquoise  and  pottery. 


PiPPtt]       CEREMONIAL  OBJECTS  FROM  PUEBLO  BONITO 


193 


JET   PENDANT,    BEADS,    AND   BUTTONS 

The  latest  jet  pendant  known  to  have  been  found  in  the  South- 
west was  recovered  from  the  same  deposit.  It  is  in  a  fragmentary 
condition,  but  enough  pieces  were  recovered  to  give  a  general  idea 
of  its  size  and  appearance  when  complete  (figure  5).  It  is  9  cm. 
2  mm.  long,  6  cm.  6  mm.  wide,  and  1  cm.  i  mm.  thick.  The 
comers  are  rounded  and  it  is  of  uniform  thickness.  The  fragments 
were  scattered  through  the  debris,  but  the  largest  piece  was  lying 
half  an  inch  northwest  of  and  at  the 
same  level  as  specimen  No.  4.  This 
pendant  was  also  drilled  for  suspen- 
sion, the  perforation  being  made 
through  the  edge  as  shown  in  the 
illustration,  thus  leaving  the  front  sur- 
face unbroken.  In  view  of  the  fact 
that  the  jet  frog  and  the  buckle  are 
in  a  perfect  state  of  preservation,  so 
far  as  their  completeness  is  concerned, 
it  is  difficult  to  account  for  the  crack- 
ing and  splitting  of  this  pendant. 
From  its  present  appearance  and  from 
the  scattered  fragments  it  would  seem 
that  it  was  broken  or  was  in  a  very 
fragile  condition  when  left  on  the 
platform. 

Pendants  of  this  shape  are  not  uncommon  in  the  Pueblo  area, 
but  the  specimen  under  consideration  is  exceptionally  large.  The 
material  from  which  the  latter  was  cut  was  used  by  the  ancient 
Pueblos  in  making  small  objects  of  jewelry,  but  it  was  not  the 
practice  to  employ  large  pieces  even  in  fashioning  ceremonial 
objects.  This  pendant  was  probably  used  as  a  breast  ornament, 
either  alone  or  in  connection  with  the  necklace  of  jet  and  shell 
beads  found  near  it. 

Beads  of  different  sizes  were  scattered  through  the  sand  in 
which  the  lai^er  objects  were  lying.  In  removing  scraper  No.  10, 
the  depression  in  the  handle  end  was  found  to  be  filled  with  sand, 
imbedded  in  which  were  eighty  small  jet  beads,  2  mm.  in  diameter 


F[G.    J. — Jet  pendant  repaired. 
(Tiro-lhirds  natural  «ze. ) 


194  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

and  averaging  1.5  mm.  in  thickness.  In  the  debris  surrounding 
the  scrapers  3 1 3  beads  of  the  same  material  and  of  the  same  size 
and  shape  were  found.  Associated  with  these  beads  were  46  that 
measured  3  mm.  in  diameter,  but  in  other  respects  they  were  iden- 
tical to  the  smaller  ones.  With  these  jet  beads  there  were  19  white 
ones,  made  of  stone  and  shell,  and  of  the  same  size  and  shape  as 
the  others. 

In  plate  xix  two  black  objects  (No.  7,  8)  are  shown  in  the  fore- 
ground ;  these  are  the  jet  buttons  mentioned  in  the  general  descrip- 
tion of  the  contents  of  the  deposit.  In  form  they  are  oblate  sphe- 
roidal. No.  7  averages  i  cm.  5  mm.  in  diameter,  and  No.  8  is  only 
I  mm.  larger.  The  former  is  almost  free  from  flaw,  whereas  its 
companion  has  a  broad  check  line  spanning  the  upper  part.  Both 
are  perforated  on  the  flat  side,  and  they  may  have  been  used  as 
garment  ornaments  or  as  pendants.  A  third  button,  or  perforated 
ball  of  jet,  was  obtained  from  an  Indian  who  had  worked  in  this 
room,  and  had  probably  been  stolen  with  the  other  objects  above 
mentioned. 

THE  TURQUOISE   BIRDS 

Of  the  five  bird  forms  found  in  Room  38,  four  were  perfect  and 
the  fifth  was  represented  by  several  fragments,  the  largest  being  the 
tail  end  (plate  xx,  b\  These  birds  are  cut  from  decomposed  tur- 
quoise, and  in  color  are  pale  bluish  green.  There  is  practically  no 
variation  in  the  eight  specimens  of  the  type  found  in  Pueblo  Bonito. 
The  material  from  which  the  birds  are  carved  is  so  soft  that  it  can  be 
cut  with  a  knife.  The  figures  were  probably  roughed  out  with  one 
of  the  many  forms  of  stone  implements,  and  then  ground  to  the 
desired  shape  with  sandstone  grinders.  On  the  surface  of  some  of 
the  birds  may  be  seen  fine  lines  which,  under  a  glass  of  low  power, 
have  the  appearance  of  file  scratches ;  they  are  nevertheless  the 
marking  made  by  the  sandstone  polishers.  Lines  of  this  character 
are  in  evidence  on  many  of  the  stone  implements  found  in  this  re- 
gion, and  are  especially  noticeable  on  objects  of  wood. 

Over  the  surface  of  each  of  these  five  turquoise  specimens  there 
is  a  dull  red  patina.  There  are  evidences  of  the  matrix  in  some 
pieces,  but  the  surface  color  seems  to  be  due  to  soil  discoloration. 
In  the  other  three  bird  forms  found  in  this  ruin  by  the  Navaho 


•■••■•• 


TURQUOISE   PENDANTS  'SLIQHTLV   REDUCED) 


PEPPER]        CEREMONIAL  OBJECTS  FROM  PUEBLO  BONITO  1 95 

workmen,  there  are  indications  of  this  discoloration,  but  the  greater 
part  of  it  had  been  removed  by  carding  the  objects  about  in  their 
medicine  bags  or  in  using  them  as  pendants  on  their  necklaces. 
The  head,  tail,  and  wings  of  the  birds  are  indicated  in  each  instance. 
The  variety  represented  is  doubtless  a  water  fowl,  probably  the 
duck,  the  poise  of  the  head  and  the  general  angle  of  the  body  sug- 
gesting the  appearance  of  a  duck  when  resting  on  water.  This 
form  of  bird  seems  to  have  been  a  favorite  one  with  the  sedentary 
people  of  the  Southwest.  From  Pueblo  Bonito  alone  it  is  carved 
from  red  hematite  and  stone,  and  in  some  Chaco  ruins  it  has  been 
found  carved  from  pure  turquoise,  shell,  and  jet.  In  southeastern 
Utah,  in  the  Grand  Gulch  region,  some  of  the  large  basketry 
meal  trays  have  a  line  of  these  bird  figures  as  a  decorative  element ; 
and  in  one  of  them  the  design  is  associated  with  the  butterfly.^ 
The  largest  bird  (No.  2)  is  2  cm.  7  mm.  long,  and  2  cm.  i  mm. 
wide.  The  smallest  (No.  i)  is  i  cm.  7  mm.  long,  and  i  cm.  3 
mm.  wide.  These  measurements  do  not  include  the  projecting 
beaks,  which  vary  in  size  in  the  different  pieces,  all  of  them  being 
proportionate  to  the  size  of  the  body.  The  tails  and  wings  are 
carved  in  relief,  and  all  the  specimens  have  lateral  perforations 
below  the  front  or  shoulder  portion  of  the  wings.  The  position  of 
the  holes  causes  a  top-heaviness  when  the  birds  hang  free,  but 
against  the  body  they  maintain  the  proper  angle,  hanging  with  the 
head  upward. 

TURQUOISE    PENDANTS    AND    BEADS 

There  were  fifteen  turquoise  pendants  associated  with  the  larger 
objects  herein  described  (plate  xx,  a).  Two  of  these  are  quite 
large,  but  the  others  are  of  medium  size.  The  largest,  No.  3,  may 
be  seen  near  the  turquoise  bird  No.  2  (plate  xix),  on  a  slight  eleva- 
tion northeast  of  the  scrapers.  It  is  3  cm.  4  mm.  long,  with  a  width 
of  2  cm.  at  the  top  and  2  cm.  5  mm.  at  the  bottom,  tapering  gradu- 
ally to  the  rounded  base.  In  color  it  is  delicate  blue.  The  polished 
surface  shows  an  interlacing  of  matrix  lines,  and  the  back,  with  the 
exception  of  a  very  small  space  in  the  upper  right-hand  corner,  is 
a  layer  of  brown  trachyte  —  the  rock  in  which  the  turquoise  is 
found.     The  pendant  has  a  thickness  of  5  mm.;  the  edges  have  been 

'  Geo.  H.  Pepper,  The  Ancient  Basket  Makers  of  Southeastern  Utahy  pp.  13,  15. 


196  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

smoothed  and  polished,  and  there  is  a  perforation  in  the  upper  part. 
The  drilling  in  this  specimen,  which  is  at  an  angle,  with  the  larger 
opening  on  the  turquoise  side,  is  the  most  irregular  that  has  been 
found  in  the  turquoise  work  from  Pueblo  Bonito.  The  most  re- 
markable feature  of  the  specimen  is  its  color,  which  is  very  light  as 
compared  with  the  other  specimens  from  this  room,  whose  prevail- 
ing shades  range  from  dark  blue  to  dull  olive  green.  The  light 
blue  seen  in  the  turquoise  of  commerce  is  seldom  found. 

Of  the  remaining  fourteen  pendants  the  largest  is  3  cm.  i  mm. 
long,  and  the  smallest  9  mm.  They  vary  in  shape  and  thickness, 
but  are  typical  of  the  forms  found  in  the  various  rooms  of  Pueblo 
Bonito,  as  indeed  throughout  this  entire  culture  area.  Other  objects 
of  turquoise  were  106  flat  circular  beads  and  one  small  tessera. 
The  beads  ranged  from  3  mm.  to  6  mm.  in  diameter,  and  averaged 
1.5  mm.  in  thickness. 

In  removing  the  small  material,  a  peculiar  ball-shaped  object 
was  brought  to  light.  It  seemed  to  be  composed  of  fine  brown 
meal,  but  mixed  with  it  were  minute  particles  of  turquoise,  shell, 
and  jet.  It  had  been  retained  in  some  perishable  material  that  had 
entirely  disappeared,  but  the  rounded  form  was  well  defined.  The 
ball,  which  was  a  little  more  than  an  inch  in  diameter,  fell  apart 
when  it  was  taken  up,  but  the  material  which  composed  it  was  pre- 
served. In  examining  the  contents,  five  small  jet  beads  were  found, 
also  three  fragments  of  jet  beads  of  the  larger  size.  The  grindings 
preserved  in  this  specimen  were  undoubtedly  from  the  ceremonial 
objects  that  have  been  described.  The  practice  of  caring  for  waste 
material  in  the  manufacture  of  ceremonial  paraphernalia  is  well 
known  among  the  modem  tribes  of  the  Southwest.  Such  refuse, 
as  a  rule,  is  deposited  in  accordance  with  ritualistic  laws,  but  in  this 
case,  owing  to  the  fact  that  the  material  was  precious,  it  was  no 
doubt  kept  for  use  in  connection  with  other  secret  **  medicines  **  in 
pieces  of  folded  skin  or  in  buckskin  bags. 

CONCLUSIONS 

The  ceremonial  implements  and  ornaments  that  have  been  con- 
sidered are  extraordinary  only  as  evidence  of  the  development  of  an 
art  known  to  most  of  the  ancient  Pueblo  dwellers.     Incrustation  of 


PEPPER]        CEREMONIAL  OBJECTS  FROM  PUEBLO  BONITO  1 97 

sacred  ornaments  or  other  objects  by  the  ancient  sedentary  people 
of  the  Southwest  has  been  known  for  a  number  of  years.  From 
the  Gila  region  in  southern  Arizona  there  are  several  such  speci- 
mens in  the  Hemenway  collection  of  the  Peabody  Museum  at  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  Private  collections  in  New  Mexico  and  Arizona  also 
contain  objects  of  jet  and  shell  ornamented  with  turquoise,  and  Dr 
Fewkes  obtained  one,  in  the  form  of  a  frog,  during  his  excavation 
of  the  Chaves  Pass  ruins  in  Arizona.  Of  this  specimen  Dr  Fewkes 
says  :  "  The  most  beautiful  ornament  or  fetish  of  shell  incrusted 
with  turquoise  was  found  at  the  smaller  of  the  two  ruins  at  Chaves 
Pass.  It  was  a  specimen  of  Pectuncubis  giganteus  covered  with 
gum,  in  which  were  inlaid  rows  of  turquoise  nicely  fitted  together 
in  the  form  of  a  frog  or  toad.  As  an  example  of  mosaic  work,  this 
object  is  the  only  veritable  mosaic  known  to  me  from  ruins  in  the 
Southwest." 

The  researches  of  Fewkes,  Cushing,  Hough,  and  other  students 
have  demonstrated  that  large  incrusted  objects  are  seldom  found. 
Pueblo  Bonito  has  furnished  the  major  portion  of  known  examples 
from  the  Southwest.  Future  investigations  in  this  ruin  and  others 
of  the  Chaco  group  should  add  materially  to  our  knowledge  of  the 
esthetic  side  of  primitive  Pueblo  life. 

American  Museum  of  Natural  History, 
New  York  City. 


NOTES   ON  THE   ANTIQUITIES   OF    JEMEZ  VALLEY, 

NEW   MEXICO 

By  W.  H.  HOLMES 

During  the  summer  of  1889  I  had  the  good  fortune  to  accom- 
pany a  field  party  of  the  United  States  Geological  Survey,  under 
the  immediate  direction  of  Major  J.  W.  Powell,  to  northern  central 
New  Mexico,  and  was  able  to  make  somewhat  extended  studies 
among  the  antiquities  of  the  Jemez  valley.  The  Jcmez  river  is 
tributary  to  the  Rio  Grande  on  the  west,  and  its  two  branches,  the 
San  Diego  and  the  Guadalupe,  descend  from  the  Jemez  mountains 
through  canons  of  considerable  depth,  coming  together  as  they 
emerge  from  the  canons  25  miles  above  the  junction  with  the  Rio 
Grande  at  Bernalillo.  In  1875  I  had  studied  the  andent  ruins  of 
southern  Colorado  and  northwestern  New  Mexico,  and  had  carried 
my  investigations  as  far  to  the  southeast  as  the  valley  of  the  Rio 
Chama,  which  drains  the  northern  slope  of  the  Jemez  mountains. 
The  work  of  1889  therefore  enabled  me  in  a  measure  to  com- 
plete a  chain  of  observations  connecting  the  ancient  remains  of 
San  Juan  valley  with  those  of  the  region  now  occupied  by  the 
Pueblo  tribes,  and  to  reach  at  least  tentative  conclusions  concerning 
the  relations  of  the  people  and  culture  of  the  extreme  northern  por- 
tions of  the  Pueblo  province  with  those  of  the  middle  and  south. 

The  publication  of  these  notes  was  delayed  in  the  hope  that  I 
might  be  able  to  visit  the  region  again  and  complete  my  studies, 
and  they  are  now  prepared  for  publication  because  of  the  desirability 
of  placing  them  on  record  for  convenience  of  reference  in  connection 
with  the  preparation  of  measures  for  the  preservation  of  antiquities 
by  the  departments  of  the  Government  having  control  of  the 
public  lands. 

In  the  lower  Jemez  valley  there  are  three  inhabited  pueblos, 

Jemez,  Sia,  and  Santa  Ana,  and  there   are  perhaps  as  many  as 

twenty  or  thirty  deserted  sites,  situated  mostly  in  the  upper  valleys, 

some  of  which  must  have  been  villages  of  considerable  importance. 

198 


ANTIQUITIES  OF  JEMEZ   VALLEY 


All  are  of  the  usual  pueblo  type,  differing  somewhat  from  the  more 
northern  villages  of  like  situation,  but  typical  of  the  middle  region, 
to  which  they  belong. 

The  early  days  of  Spanish  occupancy  of  the  Jemez  country, 
1 540  to  1700,  witnessed  many  stirring  events  of  conquest,  revolt  and 


200  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

reconquest,  and  numerous  interesting  details  culled  from  the  Spanish 
chronicles  are  given  by  Bandelier  in  his  Final  Report,  The  Jemez 
pueblos  were  first  visited  by  the  Spaniards  under  Francisco  de  Barrio- 
nuevo  in  1541.  Oiiate,  in  1598,  saw  eight  villages,  and  others 
were  mentioned  to  him.  Bandelier  says  that  at  the  time  of  his  visits 
in  1880-85  ^he  Jemez  gave  him  the  names  of  seventeen  of  the  old 
pueblos.  He  believes  that  the  numerous  small  villages  were 
gradually  consolidated  into  two,  and  finally  into  one,  the  present 
pueblo.^ 

Ancient  dwelling  sites,  —  About  half  a  mile  below  the  village  of 
Jemez  (see  map,  figure  6)  are  two  anciently  inhabited  sites  that  show 
no  distinctly  marked  architectural  remains,  but  the  ground  is  strewn 
with  various  minor  relics.  No  specimen  was  found  that  suggested 
Spanish  influence,  and  all  varieties  could  be  duplicated  from  the 
more  northern  sites  where  Spanish  influence  was  never  felt  All 
other  sites  visited  in  the  valley  exhibit  in  different  degrees  traces  of 
modem  Pueblo  influence  if  not  of  the  presence  of  the  Spaniard. 
Fragments  of  coiled  ware  and  of  the  delicate  white  pottery  with 
decorations  in  black  were  plentiful,  and  bits  of  obsidian  and  agate 
and  small  implements  of  these  materials  were  found.  One  of  the  sites 
is  on  the  low  east  bank  of  the  creek  near  the  water's  edge,  and  the 
other  on  the  western  side  nearly  opposite.  Similar  traces  marking 
other  ancient  sites  arc  found  in  various  parts  of  the  valley,  and 
probably  represent  the  exclusively  prehistoric  occupancy. 

Ruined  pueblo  three  miles  west  of  Jemez,  —  On  a  partially  iso- 
lated bit  of  mesa  about  three  miles  west  of  Jemez  is  a  considerable 
ruin,  which  does  not  bear  evidence,  however,  of  long  continued 
occupancy.  The  summit  of  the  mesa  is  without  trees  and  almost 
without  soil,  and  water  must  have  been  obtained  from  far  below. 
The  walls  of  the  ruin  are  well  defined,  and  stand  in  places  five  or 
six  feet  in  height;  but  they  are  formed  of  rough,  loosely  laid 
stones,  and  are  extremely  thin  and  unstable.  They  could  not  have 
been  high  at  any  time,  as  there  is  a  marked  absence  of  debris,  and 
the  dearth  of  pottery  and  kitchen  refuse  would  seem  to  stamp  the 
place  as  a  temporary  or  emergency  abode.     The  site  is  favorable 

1  A.  F.  Bandelier,  in  Papers  of  the  Archaological  Institute  of  America^  Amer.  ser., 
IV,  Final  Report y  part  II,  1 892,  p.  208. 


% 


HOLMES]  ANTIQUITIES  OF JEMEZ  VALLEY  20I 

for  defense,  and  there  are  traces  of  defensive  walls  along  the  margin 
of  the  summit  The  buildings  are  irregular  In  plan  and  comprise 
three  groups,  the  full  length  of  the  groups  being  about  450  feet 
and  the  width  350  feet.'  A  sketch  plan  is  given  in  figure  7.  The 
pottery  of  this  site  Is  partly  archaic,  while  traces  of  later  Pueblo 


r'-i        C- J  ""*^ 

Fig.  7.  —  Sketch  plan  of  ruined  pueblo  three  miles  west  of  Jemez. 

work  are  common,  and  the  presence  of  bits  of  porcelain  would 
seem  to  indicate  post -Spanish  occupancy.  Fragments  of  metates 
and  mullers  of  usual  type  occur,  as  well  as  numerous  minor  relics 
of  obsidian,  agate,  and  other  varieties  of  stone.  There  appears  to 
be  no  definite  historic  reference  to  this  site. 

Vallecito  Viejo  pueblo.  —  Two  unimportant  ruined  structures 
occur  three  and  a  half  miles  northeast  of  Jemez  pueblo,  on  a  bluff 
overlooking  Vallecito  creek  (figure  8).  They  are  rather  unpreten- 
tious piles,  and  by  their  advanced  state  of  decay  would  seem  to  have 
been  long  deserted.  There  are  no  positive  indications  of  occu- 
pancy by  post- Spanish  inhabitants,  although  a  few  pieces  of  pottery 
are  apparently  allied  to  the  later  Pueblo  forms.  Few  relics  of  any 
kind  were  observed.  Fragments  of  the  archaic  varieties  of  pottery 
occur,  and  the  usual  forms  of  stone  implements.  The  lower  ruin, 
A,  about  1 50  feet  above  the  creek  level,  is  squarish  in  outline,  and 


given  in  this  paper  are  all  mere  estimates,  and  the  otietitstiotit 


202  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

is  about  175  by  180  feet  in  extent.  It  encloses  a  court  in  which 
a  shallow  circular  depression  occurs.  The  ridges  of  debris  are 
four  or  five  feet  in  heigli^  and  two  or  three  rooms  in  width.  The 
upper  structure,  B,  is  about  1 50  by  200  feet  in  extent,  and  embod- 
ies two  courts.     The  walls  are  very  much  reduced. 

Ruins  of  Patokwa  {San  Juan  de  Jemez).  — Two  ruined  pueblos, 
extremely  interesting  on  account  of  their  connection  with  the  events 
of  the  Spanish  conquest,  are  found  at  the  confluence  of  the  two 
main  branches  of  Jemez  creek,  six  miles  above  the  present  Jemez 


2       T:    a  5,  ;j 

J.     -f  -s,  j#      « 


'^•*«-«-^  %  \\  (11 

Fig.  8.  —  Sketch  plan  of  ruined  pueblo  on  Vallecito  creek. 

pueblo.  One  is  on  a  low  mesa  point  between  the  two  streams,  and 
the  other  occupies  the  end  of  the  great  mesa  several  hundred 
feet  above.  The  lower  site  (figure  8,  a)  is  one  that  would  naturally 
be  selected  for  residence  by  primitive  peoples,  and  may  well  have 
been  a  principal  pueblo  of  the  valley  in  pre-Spanish  times.  One 
portion  of  the  ruin  is  a  large  mound  of  debris  from  which  the  larger 
stones  have  been  removed.  This  represents  the  prehistoric  town. 
The  other  portion  is  in  a  much  better  state  of  preservation,  and 
consists  of  lines  of  fallen  house  rows  surrounding  two  great  courts. 
That  this  structure  is  of  late  date  is  clearly  indicated,  not  only  by 
its  state  of  preservation  but  by  the  presence  at  one  corner  of  the 
ruins  of  a  Catholic  church.  I  had  time  for  only  a  hasty  review  of 
these  ruins,  but  found  nearly  all  the  usual  varieties  of  artifacts  of 
the  valley  —  shallow  metates,  flattish  mullers  of  cellular  basalt, 
arrowpoints  of  obsidian  and  agate,  and  pottery  of  archaic  as  well  as 
of  later  Pueblo  times,  the  latter  including  a  black  polished  ware, 
mica-finished  ware,  coarse  reddish  ollas  with  figures  in  black  and 
red  paint,  and  bowls  with  thickened  upright  rims  and  rude  glazed 
decorations. 


holmes] 


ANTIQUITIES  OF JEMEZ  VALLEY 


203 


Ruins  of  Astialakwa, — An  interesting  group  of  ruined  buil- 
dings is  situated  on  the  high  and  almost  inaccessible  promontory,  a 
mesa  remnant,  overlooking  the  ruin  at  the  confluence  of  the  east 
and  west  branches  of  Jemez  creek,  just  described.  The  ruins  stand 
a  short  distance  back  from  the  front  of  the  promontory  and  near 
the  brink  of  the  cliffs  on  the  \yest  side  (figure  8,  b).  The  walls  are 
of  unhewn  stone,  and  bear  evidence  of  hurried  and  apparently 
incomplete  construction,  there  being  a  notable  absence  of  debris  of 
any  kind.  Traces  of  mortar  occur  in  the  walls,  and  a  little  plaster 
still  remains  on  the  interior  surfaces.  The  walls  are  in  no  place 
more  than  five  or  six  feet  in  height.     The  buildings  are  in  a  num- 


FiG.  9.  — Sketch  plan  of  ruined  pueblos  of  Patokwa  (San  Juan  de  Jemez),  A,  and 

Astialakwa,  B. 

ber  of  groups,  as  indicated  roughly  in  the  sketch.  There  are  few 
traces  of  household  refuse  on  the  almost  naked  rock  surface  of  the 
site,  but  remnants  of  mortars  and  muUers  of  the  usual  type,  as  well 
as  of  pottery  of  several  varieties,  were  found  —  the  white  ware  with 
decorations  in  black,  of  the  ancient  type  ;  numerous  pieces  of  bowls 
and  pots  which  show  designs  in  greenish  glaze ;  plain  dark  and 
gray  cooking  pots ;  and  red  and  black  decorated  ware  of  modem 
type.  There  were  also  fragments  of  some  large  metates.  There 
can  be  little  doubt  that  this  village  was  built  at  the  period  of 
Spanish  encroachment  by  the  people  of  the  villages  below  as  a 
place  of  refuge  and  defense,  and  it  was  here,  according  to  historical 


204  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

accounts,  that  they  were  defeated  by  the  Spaniards  and  compelled 
to  descend  to  the  lowlands. 

When  Otermin  made  his  unsuccessful  campaign  into  New  Mexico  in 
the  fall  and  winter  of  1681,  the  Jemez  retreated  to  the  mesas.  They 
soon  returned,  however,  to  retire  again  to  the  heights,  —  possibly  upon 
the  approach  of  Don  Domingo  Gironza  Petriz  de  Cruzate  in  1688.  In 
1692  Vargas  found  them  in  a  large  pueblo  on  the  top  of  one  of  the  mesas, 
and  he  succeeded  after  long  parleyings  in  entering  their  village.  The 
people  displayed  marked  hostility,  however,  and  it  required  all  the  tact 
and  courage  of  the  Spanish  commander  to  prevent  an  outbreak  while  he 
was  there.  He  succeeded  in  conciliating  them  at  last,  as  well  as  the 
Queres  of  Santo  Domingo,  who  were  in  their  company,  and  one  hundred 
and  seventeen  children  were  baptized  on  the  spot.  The  Jemez  gave  the 
usual  promises  to  behave  well  in  the  future,  while  firmly  determined,  as 
the  sequel  proved,  to  resist  the  Spaniards  to  the  utmost.  (Bandelier, 
Final  Report,  p.  212.) 

Diego  de  Vargas  visited  the  Jemez  on  their  mesa  a  second  time,  on 
November  26,  1693. 

Vargas,  as  soon  as  he  reached  the  friendly  Pueblos  of  Santa  Ana  and 
Cia,  held  a  council  with  the  leading  men  of  both  villages,  and  then 
marched  with  his  force,  said  to  have  numbered  one  hundred  and  twenty 
Spaniards  and  some  auxiliary  natives,  for  the  mesas  above  the  San  Diego 
Cafion.  He  left  Cia  at  eight  o'clock  at  night,  on  the  23d  of  July,  and 
at  a  distance  of  four  leagues,  near  the  junction  of  the  two  streams,  divided 
his  men  into  two  bodies.  One  of  these,  consisting  of  twenty-five  Spanish 
soldiers  under  command  of  Eusebio  de  Vargas  and  the  Indian  allies,  was 
to  enter  the  gorge  of  San  Diego  and  climb  the  mesa  on  a  dizzy  trail,  so 
as  to  reach  the  rear  of  the  highest  plateau,  while  the  main  body,  led  by 
Vargas  himself,  ascended  from  the  southwest.  The  Spanish  commander 
had  ascertained  that  the  Jemez  had  evacuated  their  village  on  the  mesa, 
and  retired  to  a  still  higher  location  north  of  it.  The  operations  were 
completely  successful,  and  the  Indians  were  taken  between  two  fires ;  but 
they  offered  a  desperate  resistance.  The  total  number  killed  on  this 
occasion  amounted  to  eighty-four,  five  of  whom  perished  in  the  flames, 
and  seven  threw  themselves  down  the  cliff's  rather  than  surrender.  Vargas 
remained  on  the  mesas  until  the  8th  of  August,  removing  gradually  the 
considerable  stores  found  in  the  villages,  and  the  prisoners,  who  numbered 
three  hundred  and  sixty-one.  Then  setting  fire  to  both  villages,  he  with- 
drew to  San  Diego,  and  thence  to  Santa  F6.     During  his  stay  on  the 


HOLMES]  ANTIQUITIES  OF JEMEZ  VALLEY  205 

mesas  he  discovered  a  third  pueblo,  recently  built  there  by  the  people  of 
Santo  Domingo,  who  had  joined  the  Jemez  tribe  upon  the  approach  of 
the  Spaniards.  That  village  is  said  to  have  been  situated  three  leagues 
farther  north,  so  that,  within  a  distance  of  about  twelve  miles  from  the 
southern  extremity,  three  pueblos  had  been  constructed  between  1688 
and  1694,  all  of  which  were  abandoned  after  the  latter  year.  (^Ibid,^ 
pp.  213-214.) 

It  is  an  interesting  fact  that  along  the  margins  of  the  precipice 
are  traces  of  defensive  works  built  of  stone. 

Ruins  of  Giusewa  {San  Diego  de  Jemez). — A  ruined  pueblo  of 
considerable  importance  is  situated  at  Jemez  Hot  Springs,  twelve 
miles  above  Jemez  pueblo.  At  present  the  chief  feature  of  interest 
on  this  site  is  the  ruin  of  a  Spanish  church,  with  its  heavy  walls 
and  fortress-like  tower.  It  has  been  constructed  of  materials  derived 
from  the  immediate  vicinity.  The  tower  and  upper  parts  are  of  the 
impure  friable  limestones  of  the  promontory  against  which  the 
foundations  are  built.  The  lower  end  of  the  church  and  the  walled 
enclosure  extend  down  to  the  border  of  the  arroyo,  and  the  latter 
has  been  built  of  heterogeneous  materials.  The  adobe  mortar  has 
been  made  from  the  debris  of  ancient  house  sites  and  is  full  of  frag- 
ments of  pottery,  obsidian  chips,  and  charcoal.  A  careful  examina- 
tion developed  the  fact  that  the  pottery  contained  in  the  mortar  is 
chiefly  of  the  white  ware  with  black  decorations  ;  but  there  are  also 
some  black,  slightly  polished  pieces,  and  much  plain  gray  ware. 
A  few  fragments  of  coiled  vases  were  also  found.  Sherds  of  glazed 
pottery  were  observed  in  the  vicinity,  but  none  were  included  in 
the  walls  of  the  buildings  —  and  this  is  negative  evidence,  at  least, 
that  this  ware  was  not  made  here  in  pre-Spanish  times.  Its  presence 
about  the  ruin  indicates  that  it  was  in  use,  however,  during  Spanish 
occupancy. 

At  the  lower  end  of  the  ruin  a  road  has  been  cut  through  the 
razed  walls  of  the  ancient  village,  and  excavations  have  been  made 
by  householders  here  and  there.  In  the  course  of  this  work  many 
interesting  things  had  been  discovered,  and  some  had  been  pre- 
served by  a  local  physician,  Dr  J.  M.  Shields.  When  the  old 
houses  were  excavated  many  skeletons  were  found  scattered  about 
the  floors,  and  numerous  pieces  of  pottery,  flutes  of  bone,  and 


206  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

domestic  utensils  were  recovered.  The  pottery  in  these  houses  is 
mostly  of  the  white  variety  with  black  decorations,  the  forms  being 
of  usual  types.  An  iron  knife  occurred  in  the  same  connection. 
In  one  section  examined  I  found  all  kinds  of  pottery  to  a  depth  of 
five  feet.  This  site  has  been  so  much  disturbed  by  cultivation  and 
by  building,  in  recent  times,  that  the  outlines  of  the  old  structures 
cannot  be  traced.  Bandelier  says  that  this  pueblo  "formed  several 
hollow  quadrangles  at  least  two  stories  high.  It  contained  about 
eight  hundred  inhabitants.  The  church  is  a  solid  edifice,  the  walls 
of  which  are  erect  to  the  height  of  ten  or  fifteen  feet,  and  in  places 
nearly  eight  feet  thick.  It  is  not  as  large  as  the  one  at  Pecos,  and 
behind  it,  connected  with  the  choir  by  a  passage,  rises  an  octagonal 
tower,  manifestly  erected  for  safety  and  defense.  Nothing  is  left  of 
the  so-called  *  convent '  but  foundations.  The  eastern  houses  of  the 
pueblo  nearly  touch  the  western  walls  of  the  church,  and  from  this 
structure  the  village  and  a  portion  of  the  valley  could  be  overlooked, 
and  the  sides  of  the  mesas  easily  scanned.  Ginsewa  [Giusewa]  is 
an  historical  pueblo.  It  first  appears  under  the  name  of  Guimzique 
in  1626.  It  seems  that  it  was  abandoned  in  1622,  on  account  of 
the  persistent  hostility  of  the  Navajos,  who  had  succeeded  in  scat- 
tering the  Jemez  tribes.  In  1627  Fray  Martin  de  Arvide  obtained 
permission  from  his  superior,  the  custodian  Fray  Alonzo  de  Bena- 
vides,  to  attempt  to  gather  the  tribe  again  in  its  old  home.  The 
efforts  of  the  monk  were  successful,  and  the  Jemez  Indians  settled 
in  two  of  their  former  pueblos  — at  Ginsewa  and  at  Amoxiumqua.**^ 
Ruins  of  Afftoxiufuqua,  —  On  the  high  mesa  overlooking  Jemez 
Hot  Springs  on  the  west  are  the  remains  of  another  large  and  ancient 
pueblo,  which  is  reached  by  a  tedious  and  very  precipitous  trail. 
The  ruin,  a  sketch  plan  of  which  is  given  in  figure  10,  stands  in  an  open 
space  in  the  forest,  about  a  quarter  of  a  mile  from  the  brink  of  the 
canon,  and  from  its  walls  a  glimpse  can  be  had  of  the  lower  valley 
of  Jemez  creek.  It  is  larger  than  any  of  the  ruins  in  the  valley 
below,  and  appears  to  represent  two  periods  of  occupancy,  an  ancient 
or  pre-Spanish  one,  and  a  more  modem  one,  probably  of  the  Span- 
ish period,  the  later  village  having  been  built  upon  the  ruins  of  the 
earlier.      Bandelier   states^    that   Amoxiumqua   was    abandoned 

"^ Final  Report y  pp.  204-205. 
«Ibid.,  p.  208. 


«] 


ANTIQVfTIES  OF JEMEZ  VALLEY 


207 


previous  to  1680.  In  the  accompanying  sketch  plan  (figure  !0)the 
old  town,  which  is  a  mere  heap  of  debris  and  quite  limited  in  extent, 
isiatUcated  by  a  stippled  or  dotted  surface.  The  newer  construction 
coimsts  of  a  series  of  connected  ridges,  two  or  three  rooms  in  width 
and  from  a  few  feet  to  eight  or  ten  feet  in  height.  Some  of  the 
room  interiors  are  exposed  and  still  retain  the  coatings  of  plaster, 
and  the  ceilings  are  of  logs  with  trans- 
verse layers  of  brush  or  splinters  to  ^  -■;^ 
support  the  earthen  covering.  The 
stones  of  the  walls,  which  have  been 
derived  from  the  cliffs  in  the  vicinity, 
are  rather  even  in  size,  and  have  been 
in  cases  slightly  dressed  on  the  outer 
sur&ce.  The  length  of  the  ruin  from 
northeast  to  southwest  is  about  350 
yards,  and  the  greatest  width  is  some 
200  yards.  The  rows  of  ruined  buil- 
dings have  a  width  of  from  20  to  30 
feet.  Seven  circular  kiva-Iike  dcpres- 
soiks  are  associated  with  the  ruin. 
Six  of  these  are  approximately  20 
feet  in  diameter,  and  the  sixth,  a  part 
of  the  encircling  wall  of  which  is  in- 
tact, is  32  feet  in  diameter.  On  the  side  opposite  the  caiion  is  a 
large  depression,  1 50  feet  in  diameter  and  five  or  six  feet  deep, 
which  contains  a  pool  of  water,  and  was  undoubtedly  used  as  a 
reser\'oir.  The  potsherds  are  very  -numerous  on  this  site,  and 
cover  the  ground  for  many  hundreds  of  feet  around  the  ruin, 
extending  far  down  the  slope  into  the  timber  on  the  south  and 
west.  In  the  older  ruin  none  but  the  archaic  varieties  were  ob- 
served, and  these  predominate  over  the  entire  site.  They  include 
the  coiled  ware,  the  white  ware  with  decorations  in  black,  thin  black 
ware,  and  red  ware.  The  white  archaic  ware  comprises  nine-tenths 
of  the  fragments,  and  is  uniform  in  nearly  every  respect  w-ith  the 
prevailing  variety  of  the  San  Juan  valley.  The  more  recent  vari- 
eties include,  especially,  the  glazed  ware,  which  is  uniform  in  char- 
acter with  that  from  many  other  sites  of  the  general  region,     Metates 


10. — Sketch  plan  of  the  Tuiaed 
pueblo  of  Amoxiumqui. 


208  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

and  mullers  of  usual  form  were  observed,  and  arrowpoints  and  other 
flaked  objects  of  obsidian  and  agate  are  common.  A  few  scraper- 
like forms  were  collected. 

Ruined  pueblo  on  the  plateau  three  miles  west  of  Jemez  springs, — 
Another  ruined  pueblo  of  large  size  and  comparatively  well  preserved 
is  situated  in  an  open  space  in  the  forest  on  the  summit  of  a  spur  of 
the  plateau  overlooking  the  canon  of  the  first  northern  tributary 
of  the  west  fork  of  Jemez  creek  and  some  two  miles  west  of  the 
great  ruin  (Amoxiumqua)  overlooking  Jemez  Hot  Springs.  This 
ruin  was  seen  from  the  opposite  side  of  the  canon,  but  lack  of  time 
forbade  an  attempt  to  visit  it. 

Ruined  pueblo  /j  miles  above  Jemes  pueblo, — A  ruin  of  more 
than  usual  interest  is  situated  on  the  west  bank  of  San  Diego  creek, 
about  1 5  miles  above  Jemez  pueblo.  At  the  base  of  the  low  ter- 
race on  which  this  ruin  stands,  and  between  its  base  and  the  creek, 
the  Survey  camp  was  established.  Two  ravines  rising  close  together 
in  the  plateau,  face  to  the  west,  separate  as  they  approach  the  creek 
bed,  leaving  a  somewhat  triangular  terrace  remnant  with  gently 
sloping  surface,  on  which  the  ruin  is  situated.  This  terrace  at  the 
lower  margin  is  about  50  feet  in  height  and  1 50  yards  long,  and  is 
perhaps  100  yards  deep  to  the  base  of  the  steep  slope  on  the  west. 
The  ruin  includes  one  principal  centrally-placed  group  of  structures 
and  four  or  five  inferior  structures,  as  indicated  on  the  ground  plan 
(figure  11).  The  central  group.  A,  consists  of  two  wings  of  unequal 
length  and  from  30  to  60  feet  in  width,  connected  at  the  upper  end 
by  a  transverse  group  of  razed  chambers.  The  length  of  the  longer 
wing  is  about  320  feet,  and  of  the  other  about  1 50  feet.  The  mass 
of  debris  indicates  the  outline  of  the  buildings  with  perfect  clearness 
and  is  in  places  10  feet  in  height.  The  chambers  were  numerous 
and  irregular  in  arrangement,  but  the  state  of  the  ruin  is  such  as  to 
make  the  details  of  the  plan  difficult  to  trace.  At  the  upper  end  of 
the  intramural  space  is  a  kiva  depression  20  feet  in  diameter  and 
two  or  three  feet  deep ;  and  at  the  lower  end,  near  the  edge  of  the 
terrace  and  next  the  wall  of  the  longer  wing,  is  another  of  like 
diameter  and  about  four  feet  in  depth.  On  the  opposite  side, 
against  the  wall  of  the  shorter  wing,  is  a  stone  heap  some  10  feet 
in  diameter  and  a  few  feet  in  height.     North  of  the  longer  wing  of 


ES] 


ANTIQUITIES  OF JEMEZ   VALLEY 


209 


the  central  structure,  40  feet  distant,  and  extending  along  the  north- 
em  margin  of  the  terrace,  is  a  ruin,  B,  some  30  feet  wide  and  150 
feet  in  length,  and  in  places  six  feet  in  height,  presenting  characters 
in  the  main  identical  with  those  of  the  central  structure.  In  the 
space  between  the  two  clusters  is  a  third  circular  depression,  cor- 
responding in  size  with  those  previously  mentioned. 

Higher  up  the  sloping  terrace  on  the  northern  margin  is  a  small 
ruin  mass,  C,  very  much  reduced.     On  the  south,  separated  from 


the  comer  of  the  shorter  wing  of  the  main  building  by  a  space 
about  10  feet  in  width,  is  a  fourth  ruin  mass,  D,  about  40  feet  in 
width  by  120  feet  in  length,  the  lower  end  of  which  extends  well 
down  to  the  margin  of  the  terrace.  Its  features  correspond  closely 
with  those  of  the  other  structures.  South  of  this  again,  and  20 
feet  away  on  the  narrow  point  of  the  terrace,  are  the  remains  of  a 
minor  structure,  enclosing  a  kiva  depression  30  feet  in  diameter 
and  about  4  feet  in  depth  ;  and  below  this,  again,  is  another  circular 


2IO  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

depression  36  feet  in  diameter  and  five  feet  in  depth,  with  which  no 
ruins  are  connected.  Still  lower  down  and  at  the  extreme  point  of 
the  terrace,  80  feet  from  the  depression  just  described,  is  a  small 
ruin  mass  about  1 2  feet  square  and  of  no  considerable  height. 

An  interesting  feature  of  this  pueblo  is  the  occurrence  of  three 
or  four  refuse  middens,  lying  on  the  slope  of  the  terrace  near  the 
walls  of  the  buildings.  These  consist  of  blackish  earth  with  many 
impurities,  including  bones  of  animals,  fragments  of  pottery,  and 
various  implements  of  stone.  On  these  heaps  were  growing  dwar- 
fish wild  potato  plants,  the  tubers,  although  ripe,  not  being  more  than 
half  an  inch  in  diameter.  This  ruin  presents  every  appearance  of 
antiquity,  and,  so  far  as  observed,  contains  no  definite  trace  of  the 
presence  of  the  white  man.  The  fallen  roof  timbers,  which  still 
remain  among  the  debris  in  some  of  the  chambers,  had  been  cut 
with  primitive  tools.  The  pottery,  of  which  many  fragments  were 
collected,  is  varied  and  interesting,  the  several  types  apparently 
grading  one  into  the  other.  There  are  bits  of  plain  black  polished 
ware,  much  like  the  modem  domestic  black  ware  of  the  Rio  Grande 
pueblos  ;  many  fragments  of  small  bowls,  with  enlarged,  thickened, 
or  flaring  rims,  and  rude  designs  in  brown,  greenish,  and  blackish 
glaze.^  Other  specimens  have  incurved  rims  and  somewhat  red- 
dish designs ;  pieces  also  of  orange  and  red  ware  were  found,  and 
of  the  typical  white  ware  with  black  decoration,  the  bowls  being 
ornamented  both  inside  and  out.  There  are  also  handled  vessels, 
mugs  and  bowls,  the  handles  being  simple  loops  vertically  placed ; 
also  bowls  with  wide  mouths,  and  a  large  percentage  of  pots  that 
appear  to  have  been  used  over  the  fire. 

The  stone  implements  collected  include  a  black  polished  dis- 
coidal  stone,  apparently  of  hematite,  about  an  inch  in  diameter  and 
an  eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  handsome  polished  axes  of 
mottled  actinolite  rock.  Thousands  of  flakes  of  black  obsidian 
occur  a  few  miles  farther  up  the  canon  and  on  the  slopes  of  Pelado 
mountain.  Numerous  arrowpoints  of  white  quartz  and  of  white 
and  red  agate  were  collected. 

Upper  pueblo  ruin. — About  a  mile  above  the  Survey  camp  and 
16  miles  above  Jemez  pueblo,  occupying  a  low  sloping  terrace  on 

I  This  ware  is  especially  referred  to  by  Bandelier,  Final  Report ^  p.  185. 


ES] 


ANTIQUITIES  OF JEMEZ  VALLEY 


—Sketch  plan 


L  ncd  pueblo 


the  west  side  of  the  valley  and  30  or  40  yards  from  the  creek,  is  a 
small  pueblo  group,  of  usual  type  (figure  1 2).  It  is  about  40  feet 
above  the  creek  bed,  and  covers  a  space  some  50  yards  long  facing 
the  stream,  and  50  yards  deep  reaching  back  to  the  steeper  ground. 
The  low  crumbling  walls  of  small  irregular  stones  mdicate  a 
squarish  structure  of  numerous  rooms  including  an  open  space  or 
court,  in  which  are  two  circu- 
lar depressions,  probably  the 
remains  of  kivas.  A  third 
depression  occurs  in  the  midst 
of  the  ruined  walls  on  the 
north  side. 

The  pottery  on  this  site 
is  wholly,  or  mainly  at  least, 
of  the  archaic  varieties,  in- 
cluding the  coiled  ware  and 
the  white  ware  with  decora- 
tions in  black.  The  stone  m  C5  a 
implements  collected  include  a  grooved  ax  of  usual  Pueblo  type. 

Scattered  stone  lodges.  —  A  unique  feature  of  the  antiquities  of 
Jemez  valley  are  the  ruins  of  small  stone  houses  that  are  encoun- 
tered by  the  explorer  at  every  turn  in  the  tributary  valleys,  on  the 
steep  slopes  of  the  plateaus,  and  scattered  over  the  upper  surfaces 
of  the  wooded  tablelands.  In  the  foothills  they  are  seen  sometimes 
occupying  very  precipitous  sites,  and  in  riding  through  the  deep 
forests  of  the  uplands  they  may  be  counted  by  the  score.  They 
consist  generally  of  a  single  room,  rarely  of  two  or  more  rooms, 
and  the  dimensions  of  the  apartments  seldom  exceed  ten  or  twelve 
feet.  The  walls  are  thin  and  loosely  laid  up,  and  to-day  are  rarely 
more  than  three  or  four  feet  in  height,  the  dearth  of  debris  indicat- 
ing that  they  could  not  have  been  more  than  one  story  in  height 
at  any  time.  A  few  potsherds  of  the  white  ware  with  black  decor- 
ation are  about  all  that  could  be  found  in  the  way  of  artifacts  around 
these  structures.  The  presence  of  this  ware,  however,  is  good  evidence 
of  the  considerable  antiquity  of  the  work.  These  houses  occur  in 
considerable  numbers  in  the  valley  of  the  San  Diego  near  the  great 
bend,  twenty  miles  above  Jemez  pueblo ;   in  the  vicinity  of  the 


212  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

warm  springs  a  few  miles  above  the  bend  ;  on  the  plateau  east  of 
Jemez  springs ;  and  along  the  terrace-like  projections  of  the  west- 
em  slope  of  the  canon  wall.  The  use  of  these  small  structures 
can  only  be  surmised.  They  were  hardly  permanent  abodes  for 
families,  but  seem  rather  to  have  been  designed  for  some  temporary 
purpose,  as  lodges  for  watchers,  hunters,  herders  (if  within  the 
Spanish  period),  shrines,  or  places  of  resort  on  special  occasions 
connected  with  religious  observances.  Some  of  these  structures, 
as  well  as  the  more  important  ruins,  are  located  on  the  accompany- 
ing map  (figure  6). 

Bureau  of  American  Ethnology, 
Washington,  D.  C. 


THE   SHASTA-ACHOMAWI :   A   NEW   LINGUISTIC 
STOCK,  WITH    FOUR   NEW   DIALECTS 

By  ROLAND  B.  DIXON 

Until  quite  recently,  the  extent  of  the  area  in  northern  California 
and  southern  Oregon  formerly  occupied  by  Indians  of  the  Shasta, 
or  Sastean,  stock  has  been  regarded  as  definitely  determined.  The 
area  was  supposed  to  be  limited  to  the  region  along  Klamath  river 
from  the  mouth  of  Scott  river  up  as  far  as  Bogus  creek,  including 
the  watershed  of  the  two  largest  southern  tributaries  of  the  Klamath 
in  this  portion  of  its  course  —  the  Scott  and  Shasta  rivers.  The 
stock  was  also  supposed  to  have  extended  northward  across  the 
Siskiyou  mountains  into  Oregon,  but  how  far  this  extension  pene- 
trated beyond  the  mountains  was  rather  uncertain.  There  were  in 
addition  vague  statements  as  to  the  early  occupancy  by  the  Shasta 
of  the  extreme  upper  course  of  Salmon  river. 

In  working  with  this  stock  in  19CX),  and  again  in  1902,^  more 
definite  information  was  procured  by  the  writer  in  regard  to  the 
Oregonian  extension  of  the  stock.  It  appears  that  the  Shasta 
formerly  extended  northward  up  the  valleys  of  Cottonwood  and 
Jenny  creeks,  and  occupied  the  entire  valley  of  Stewart  river  to  its 
mouth.  From  here  they  controlled  the  area  along  Rogue  river, 
above  the  mouth  of  the  Stewart,  to  Little  Butte  creek,  as  well  as 
the  basin  of  the  latter  stream  which  heads  near  the  base  of  Mt 
Pitt.  In  addition  to  obtaining  the  above  particulars,  vague  rumors 
were  heard  of  an  earlier  extension  of  the  stock  both  to  the  south 
into  the  Sacramento-McCloud  drainage  area,  and  to  the  west 
toward  the  Salmon.  It  was  not,  however,  till  the  season  of  1903 
that,  acting  on  the  suggestions  made  by  Dr  A.  L.  Kroeber  and 
Dr  P.  E.  Goddard,  of  the  University  of  California,  who  had  been 
carrying  on  work  among  the  Hupa  and  neighboring  tribes,  I  went 
to  the  Forks  of  Salmon  in  search  of  what  Dr  Goddard  had  thought 

^  In  connection  with  the  Huntington  Expedition  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural 
History,  New  York. 

213 


2 1 4  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

might  be  a  slightly  variant  Shasta  dialect.  This  supposed  new 
dialect  proved  on  more  careful  investigation  to  be  not  essentially  dif- 
ferent from  the  Shasta  as  spoken  on  Klamath  river,  but  a  casual 
remark  by  one  of  my  informants,  as  to  "  the  old  people's  talk," 
leading  to  further  questioning,  resulted  in  finding  that  there  had 
formerly  been  a  small  tribe  at  the  Forks  of  Salmon  whose  language 
was  distinct  from  any  in  the  vicinity.  Unfortunately  the  last  person 
known  to  have  spoken  the  language  had  died  two  years  previous 
to  my  visit,  and  for  a  time  it  appeared  hopeless  to  attempt  to 
obtain  any  material  to  determine  it  affinities.  By  good  fortune, 
however,  the  two  women  who  were  my  informants  were  able,  with 
much  difficulty,  in  the  course  of  several  days,  to  recollect  some 
seventy- five  words  and  short  phrases,  which  they  remembered  to 
have  heard  their  father  (a  mixed  blood  of  the  Shasta  and  the  local 
tribe)  use  many  years  before. 

The  tribe,  according  to  my  informants,  was  known  by  the  name 
of  Konoml'hu,  and  occupied  the  region  immediately  about  the 
Forks  of  Salmon,  extending  for  seven  miles  up  the  South  fork,  and 
five  miles  up  the  North  fork.  The  language,  as  shown  by  the 
scanty  material  obtainable,  is  in  the  main  entirely  distinct  from  that 
of  any  stock  in  the  region,  comparisons  with  Shasta,  Karok,  Chi- 
mariko,  and  Hupa  failing  to  show  any  agreement  except  in  the 
case  of  one  or  two  words,  which  are  practically  identical  with  Shasta. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  general  phonetic  character  of  the  language 
is  entirely  in  accord  with  the  Shasta,  as  well  as  is  also  what  might 
be  called  its  "  feeling."  The  two  tribes  had  apparently  very  close 
cultural  connections,  and  claimed  to  be  distantly  related.  A  possi- 
ble agreement  also  of  one  or  more  verbal  stems  seems  not  unlikely, 
so  that  for  the  present,  at  least,  it  seems  justifiable  to  regard  the  new 
language  as  probably  a  very  divergent  member  of  the  Shasta  stock. 

Further  investigations  suggested  by  this  discovery  led  to  the 
finding  of  what  seems  to  be  a  second  new  dialect  in  this  region, 
spoken  by  the  rumored  Shasta  occupants  of  the  upper  Salmon.  It 
seems  certain  that  the  upper  courses  of  the  two  forks  of  Salmon 
river  above  the  Konoml'hu  were  controlled  by  a  small  branch  of  the 
stock,  speaking  a  language  markedly  divergent  from  the  Shasta 
proper,  and  that  this  portion  of  the  stock  extended  even  over  the 


DIXON]  THE  SHASTA'ACHOMA  WI  STOCK  2 1  5 

divide,  onto  the  head  of  New  river.  On  the  whole,  this  dialect  or 
language  is  much  closer  to  Shasta  proper  than  is  the  Konomi'hu, 
and  in  some  particulars  both  new  dialects  or  languages  agree  among 
themselves.  They  seem  to  be  sufficiently  unlike,  however,  to  war- 
rant their  being  considered  separate  dialects. 

Although  the  earlier  hints  of  a  greater  westward  extension  of 
the  stock  were  thus  substantiated,  no  evidence  had  yet  been  found 
of  the  rumored  Sacramento-McCloud  tribe  and  dialect.  In  1902 
and  again  in  1903  a  number  of  clues  were  followed  up,  only  to 
result  in  disappointment.  Finally,  near  the  close  of  last  season's 
work  (1904)  further  continued  search  led  to  the  finding  of  the  long 
anticipated  dialect.  From  an  old  woman,  living  on  the  upper  Sac- 
ramento, information  was  obtained  sufficient  to  show  that  a  small 
tribe  or  body  of  Indians  known  as  the  Okwa'nuchu  had  formerly 
occupied  the  head  of  Sacramento  river  down  as  far  as  Salt  creek, 
and  the  upper  portion  of  the  McCloud  as  far  down  as  Squaw  creek, 
together  with  the  valley  of  the  latter  stream.  The  language  spoken 
by  the  Okwa'nuchu,  from  the  rather  scanty  material  obtained,  shows 
clearly  that  it  is  a  dialect  of  the  Shasta,  but  like  the  New  River 
dialect,  while  a  considerable  number  of  words  are  nearly  or  quite 
identical  with  Shasta  equivalents,  there  are  a  large  number  of  forms 
which  show  no  resemblance  at  all,  either  to  Shasta  or  to  any  other 
stock  language  in  the  region.  Contrary,  however,  to  the  other  new 
dialects,  the  general  phonetic  character  of  the  Okwa'nuchu  differs 
quite  a  little  in  some  points  from  the  Shasta,  particularly  in  its  fond- 
ness for  nasals. 

The  finding  of  these  markedly  variant  Shasta  dialects  brings 
into  prominence  once  more  the  question  of  the  possible  relationship 
between  the  languages  of  the  Shasta  and  the  Achoma'wi,  or  so-called 
Pit  River  Indians.  Several  years  ago  Gatschet  suggested  such  a 
relationship  as  possible,  but  did  not  attempt,  from  lack  of  material, 
to  demonstrate  it.  From  the  Achoma'wi  linguistic  material  collected 
by  the  writer  in  1900  and  1903,  it  seems  clear  that  this  relationship 
is  to  be  regarded  as  certain,  although  the  detailed  analysis  of  the 
Achoma'wi  is  not  yet  complete.  The  first  result  of  the  investiga- 
tion, however,  is  the  discovery  that  the  Achoma'wi  is  not  the  single 
language  it  hitherto  has  been  supposed  to  be,  but  in  reality  consists 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S..  7-Z5 


2l6 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


of  two  markedly  divergent  languages.  The  one  of  these  is  spoken 
by  the  Achoma'wi  proper,  the  other  by  the  Atsugg'wi,  or  Hat  Creek 
Indians,  who  occupy  the  valley  of  Hat  creek,  together  with  Bumey 
and  Dixie  valleys.  Of  the  words  of  the  two  vocabularies  only 
about  one-third  are  common  to  both,  if  indeed  the  proportion  is  not 
smaller,  and  many  of  these  show  considerable,  although  regular, 
phonetic  changes.  Structurally  the  two  languages  are  similar  in 
the  main,  but  differ  radically  so  far  as  regards  the  actual  prefixes  or 
suffixes  employed.  The  two  languages,  while  unquestionably  re- 
lated are  yet  strikingly  unlike. 

A  comparison  of  these  two  languages,  the  Achoma'wi  and  the 
Atsuge'wi,  with  the  Shasta  and  its  dialects,  shows  clearly  that  the 
three  are  related,  although  divergent  members  of  a  single  stock.  A 
considerable  number  of  close  lexical  correspondences  exist,  not  only 
between  the  Achoma'wi,  Atsuga'wi,  and  Shasta  proper,  but  between 
the  former  two  and  Konomi'hu,  the  New  River  dialect,  and  Okwa'- 
nuchu.  The  following  brief  table  will  illustrate  some  of  the 
more  important  of  these  agreements. 


Shasta. 

KONOMIHU. 

Nkw  Rivkr. 

Okwanuchu. 

ACHOMAWI 

Atsuckwi. 

Eye 

oi 

kV'oi 

kr^oi 

■        •        • 

•           •           • 

oifyi 

Head 

in'nux  (hair)    Wna 

kin'nux 

in^nux 

lax 

na'xa 

Teeth 

i^tsau 

•           •           • 

ki^'tsau 

itcung'wi 

i'tsa 

rtsau 

Ear 

i^sak 

•           •           « 

•       •       • 

is'sawak 

yisat 

•       •       • 

Jaw 

tsa'wak 

•           •           • 

•       •        • 

•        •       • 

tsoi'was 

•       •       • 

Blood 

a'xta 

•           •           • 

•       •        • 

axta' 

axdi' 

•       ■       • 

Liver 

dfci 

•           ■           • 

•       •        • 

•       •        ■ 

•       •       • 

dfsi 

Urine 

icuk'wi 

•           •           ■ 

•       •        • 

•       •        • 

disoq' 

wissuq' 

Man 

m 

tc 

kis^apuhiyH 

g^Hc 

•       •       • 

•       •        • 

kus'wiwahau 

Indian 

awadik'wa 

•       •        • 

■       •       • 

•       •        • 

•        •        • 

aoti' 

Water 

at^sa 

•       «        • 

go'  ats' 

at^sa 

as 

atssi' 

Coals 

xok 

•       •        ■ 

•       •       ■ 

•          m          • 

hauk 

•       •        • 

Salmon 

kieEr^ 

•       •        • 

kit^tun 

ifu'ri 

■        •        • 

d^nni 

Grizzly- 

bear   atss^ 

qamqdftsinf 

au    .    .    . 

atc^Ucihi 

•       •        ■ 

•       •       ■ 

Cedar 

na'ho 

kin^axo 

•       •       • 

•        •        • 

nat'op 

Wood 

dfwa 

m         •          • 

ga^au' 

•       ■       • 

a'hawi 

Spear 

arawdUsu 

•          •          • 

•       •        • 

lafsu 

nd^su 

Two 

xdk'wa 

■          •          • 

•        •        • 

haq 

hd'ki 

Three 

xat'ski 

•          •          • 

•        •        • 

tsas^di 

•       •        • 

Eat 

•        •        • 

tamd^hawi 

•       •        • 

•       •        • 

d'mma 

A  preliminary  grammatical  comparison  shows  equally  impor- 
tant points  of  agreement.     For  lack  of  grammatical  material  from 


DIXON] 


THE  SHASTA-ACHOMAWI  STOCK 


217 


the  Konomi'hQ,  New  River,  and  Okwa'nuchu,  only  Shasta,  Atsu- 
ge'wi,  and  Achoma'wi  are  shown. 


Shasta. 

Achomftwi. 

Atsugewi 

Subjective  suffix  (nominal) 

-ka 

-ga 

IM 

Instrumental  "          ** 

-ta 

-a 

-a 

Indep.  form  2<*  pers.  pronoun. 

mat 

mi- 

mt- 

Plural  pronominal  suffix. 

•yawEr 

•        • 

'Wir 

Poss.  pronominal  suffix. 

-mu 

•mu 

m         m 

Subjective  pron.  suffix  (verbal) 

-s 

-s 

'S 

In  view,  therefore,  of  the  considerable  agreement  between  these 
different  languages,  not  only  in  vocabulary  but  in  important  gram- 
matical elements,  it  seems  justifiable  to  regard  them  all  as  members 
of  a  single  stock.  The  choice  of  a  name  for  the  new  group  is  a 
matter  of  some  difficulty,  but  on  the  whole  the  compound  term 
Shasta- Achomawi  seems  the  most  satisfactory,  as,  in  spite  of  its 
length,  it  has  the  advantage  of  exactly  describing  the  group. 

Harvard  University, 

Cambridge,  Massachusetts. 


TWO   ANCIENT   MEXICAN   ATLATLS 
By   D.    I.    BUSHNELL,    Jr. 

About  three  years  ago  there  came  to  light  in  Florence,  Italy, 
two  Mexican  atlatls,  true  gems  of  ancient  Aztec  art.  They  were 
fortunately  obtained  by  Professor  Mantegazza  and  are  now  pre- 
served in  the  Museo  Nazionale  d'Antropologia  ed  Etnologia  del  R. 
Istituto  di  Studi  Superiori,  in  Florence. 

The  specimens  are  probably  the  finest  existing  examples  of  the 
throwing-sticks  of  the  ancient  Mexicans.  From  the  high  degree  of 
skill  shown  in  the  design  and  execution  of  the  carving,  it  is  evident 
they  were  ceremonial  or  sacred  objects  and  not  intended  for  actual 
use.  Moreover,  the  carved  surfaces  of  both  specimens  were  origi- 
nally covered  with  a  thin  layer  of  yellow  gold,  the  greater  portion  of 
which  still  adheres,  although  on  the  higher,  more  exposed  parts  of 
the  relief,  it  has  been  rubbed  or  worn  away.  The  wood  of  which 
they  are  made  is  very  heavy,  fine-grained,  and  of  reddish  black  hue. 

In  the  following  brief  description  I  shall  refer  to  the  specimens 
as  A  and  B. 

Specimen  A  (plate  xxi)  is  the  larger  of  the  two,  the  dimen- 
sions being : 

Length 605  mm. 

{at  upper  end  37  mm. 

at  end  of  carving 30  mm. 

at  lower  end 22  mm. 

Length  of  carved  surface 355  mm. 

Length  of  hook 65  mm. 

Length  of  groove 540  mm. 

base  of  hook 7  mm. 

lower  end 5  mm. 


Width  of  groove  < 


The  decoration  on  the  back  of  this  specimen  represents  human 

figures  and  various  symbols  carved  in  low  relief,  but  distinct  and 

sharp  in  outline.     As  will  be  seen  by  referring  to  the  illustration, 

218 


ANCIENT    MEXICAN    A 


BUSHNELL]  TJVO  ANCIENT  MEXICAN  A  TLA  TLS  2 1 9 

the  decoration  is  rather  uniform  and  well  balanced ;  the  larger  and 
more  prominent  figures  extend  down  the  median  line,  while  the 
lesser  are  placed  on  either  side.  In  this  respect  it  differs  essentially 
from  the  other  specimen,  as  a  comparison  of  the  plates  will  show. 

On  the  front  a  narrow  line  of  carving  extends  along  each  side  of 
the  groove,  beginning  at  the  upper  end  and  terminating  at  a  point 
opposite  the  end  of  the  carved  surface  on  the  back.  The  groove 
and  hook  are  without  decoration,  but  are  covered  with  a  layer  of 
gold. 

Specimen  B  (plate  xxii)  is  the  shorter  of  the  two  and  is  the 
finest  example  of  the  ancient  Mexican  atlatl  or  spear-thrower  known 
to  exist.     Its  dimensions  are  : 

Length 575  mm. 

{at  upper  end 35  mm. 

at  end  of  carving 27  mm. 

at  lower  end 25  mm. 

Length  of  carved  surface 378  mm. 

Length  of  hook 55  mm. 

Length  of  grooves 520  mm. 

,.-.,,      -  f  at  base  of  hook 10  mm. 

Width  of  grooves  <       ,  , 

(  at  lower  end 6  mm. 

The  peculiarity  of  this  unique  specimen  is  that  it  has  two 
grooves  on  the  front  surface,  instead  of  the  single  groove,  extend- 
ing from  the  hooks  to  the  lower  end.  If  this  atlatl  was  ever  actually 
used,  which  appears  to  be  doubtful,  it  was  evidently  intended  to 


a  b 

Fig.  13. — Sections  of  the  two  atlatls  at  the  ends  of  the  carved  surfaces.     (Exact  size.) 

hurl  two  arrows  or  spears  simultaneously,  thus  increasing  its  effec- 
tiveness as  a  weapon. 

The  complicated  decoration  on  the  back,  in  which  are  introduced 
representations  of  human    figures,    various   symbols,    and   animal 


220  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

designs,  IS  carved  in  high,  bold  relief,  extending  from  3  mm.  to 
5  mm.  above  the  surface  or  background,  on  which  is  represented  a 
symbolic  design  in  very  low  relief,  the  whole  being  covered  with 
gold.  The  carving  on  the  back  is  divided  by  two  transverse  ridges 
into  three  distinct  sections  of  unequal  size.  In  each  of  the  end  sec- 
tions are  represented  two  human  figures  facing  inward.  In  the 
central  section,  which  includes  about  four-fifths  of  the  entire  carved 
surface,  the  decoration  is  more  intricate  and  confused,  and  will 
require  one  well  versed  in  Aztec  lore  to  decipher  the  various 
figures  and  symbols  portrayed. 

The  front  of  this  atlatl,  as  above  stated,  has  t^'o  grooves,  thus 
constituting  a  new  type,  of  which  this  is  the  only  known  specimen. 
The  three  ridges  between  which  extend  the  two  grooves  are  of  equal 
size,  being  about  3  mm.  high  and  4  mm.  wide  at  the  bottom.  The 
bottoms  of  the  grooves  are  flat  and  are  decorated  with  a  simple 
design  of  incised  lines.  The  decoration  begins  at  the  ends  of  the 
hooks  and  extends  as  far  as  the  end  of  the  carved  surface  on  the 
back.  The  designs  in  the  two  grooves  are  different.  The  hooks 
at  the  upper  end  of  the  grooves  are  carved  in  low  relief,  a  human 
figure,  standing  and  facing  inward,  being  represented  on  each. 

It  is  to  be  regretted  that  the  history  of  these  two  most  interest- 
ing objects  is  not  known,  but  it  is  evident  they  have  been  in  Flor- 
ence for  several  centuries.  They  probably  belonged  to  the  collec- 
tion sent  by  Cortes  to  Charles  V  of  Spain  and  by  him  presented  to 
Pope  Clement  VII,  himself  a  Medici. 

The  atlatl  in  the  Kircheriana  Museum  in  Rome  ^  is  similar  to 
the  Florence  specimens,  being  richly  carved  and  covered  with  gold. 
Possibly  the  three  belonged  at  one  time  to  the  same  collection. 
The  Italian  museums  are  certainly  fortunate  in  possessing  the  three 
most  valuable  and  interesting  examples  of  the  ancient  Mexican 
spear-thrower  known  to  exist. 


*  This  specimen  was  described,  but  not  figured,  by  Mrs  Zelia  Nuttall  in  her  paper 
**The  Atlatl  or  Spear-thrower '*  published  in  1891  by  the  Peabody  Museum  as  No.  3  of 
Vol.  I  of  its  ArcJucological  and  Ethnological  Papers.  The  dimensions  of  this  specimen, 
according  to  Mrs  Nuttall,  which  I  quote  for  comparison,  are :  Length,  558  mm.  ;  width 
of  upper  end,  37  mm.  ;  of  lower  end,  19  mm. 


BUSHNELL]  TIVO  ANCIENT  MEXICAN  A  TLA  TLS  22 1 

A  specimen  in  the  British  Museum  ^  is  decorated  with  carving 
covered  with  gold  on  the  back  only,  the  front  being  entirely  plain. 
In  one  respect,  however,  this  is  the  most  perfect  of  the  four ;  the 
finger-loops  still  remain  bound  on  near  the  lower  end.  But  there 
is  nothing  to  indicate  that  similar  loops  were  originally  attached  to 
the  three  specimens  in  the  Italian  museums. 

The  atlatl  in  Berlin  belongs  to  a  type  different  from  those  to 
which  I  have  referred. 


1  The  late  Dr  Hjalmar  Stolpe  described  and  Bgured  this  specimen  in  colors  in 
Internationales  Archives  fUr  Ethnographies  vol.  HI,  1890,  p.  234.  The  length  of  the 
specimen  is  given  as  506  mm.  ;  width  of  upper  end,  33  mm.  ;  of  the  lower  end,  23  mm. 

Florence,  Italy, 
Aprils  igo^. 


SOME  VIRGINIA   INDIAN   WORDS 
By  WILLIAM   R.    GERARD 

< 

To  the  April-June,  1904,  number  of  the  American  Anthro- 
pologist I  contributed  an  article  on  "  The  Tapehanek  Dialect  of 
Virginia/*  a  subject  which  I  had  had  under  study  for  several  years  and 
which  concerned  a  peculiar  Virginia  speech  that,  in  its  phonetics, 
was  almost  identical  with  the  dialects  of  the  Cree  group  or  division 
of  the  Algonquian  language.  In  a  notice  of  that  article,  in  the 
October-December,  1904,  number  of  this  journal,  Mr  William 
Wallace  Tooker  expresses,  in  regard  to  the  meaning  of  a  certain  num- 
ber of  the  words  mentioned  therein,  opinions  that  differ  very  widely 
from  those  which  I  hold,  and  which  I  perhaps  too  briefly  stated. 
It  seems  proper,  therefore,  that  I  should  again  go  over  as  much  of 
the  ground  as  the  space  accorded  me  will  permit,  in  order  to  explain 
more  fully  the  reasons  for  the  statements  that  I  made  and  which 
have  been  called  in  question  by  Mr  Tooker,  whose  ideas  in  regard 
to  the  manner  in  which  Algonquian  phrase-words  are  constructed 
are  extremely  novel  and  differ  very  materially  from  those  which  I 
have  gained  by  a  quarter  of  a  century's  study  of  the  dialects  of 
this  linguistic  family,  radically,  grammatically,  comparatively,  and 
especially  from  the  view  point  of  its  laws  of  letter-change,  and 
are  certainly  far  removed  from  those  of  the  ancient  framers  of  the 
language.  I  shall  state  at  the  outset  that  after  a  careful  examina- 
tion of  Mr  Tooker's  article,  which  is  remarkable,  among  other 
things,  for  the  positiveness  of  its  assertions,  unmodified  by  an 
occasional  qualification  of  *' perhaps  "  or  ''possibly,"  and  which 
call  to  mind  the  Abnaki  saying  that  nekeinat  ghclusin^  I  see  no 
reason  whatever  for  changing  a  single  one  of  the  views  of  a  philo- 
logical nature  that  were  expressed  in  my  former  article. 

Wiiiatik.  —  Mr  Tooker,  following  Dr  Trumbull,  believes  that 
this  name  stands  for  waen-ohke,  and  means  the  *  going-around 
place.*  There  are  three  objections  to  this  view,  any  one  of  which 
would  be  fatal.     In  the  first  place,  the  name  was  not  that  of  a 


'»'>'» 


GERARD]  SOME  VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  223 

promontory,  but  of  a  piece  of  land  of  which  the  southern  extremity 
terminated  in  a  low  meadow  point  on  James  river ^  ("Careless 
Point,"  as  Captain  Archer  named  it).  In  the  second,  the  prepo- 
sition waeenUf  *  round  about,'  belongs  to  the  dialects  of  Massa- 
chusetts, none  of  which  was  spoken  on  James  river.*  In  the  third, 
waeenu  ohkeit  (that  is,  ohke  with  the  \  tpositive  preposition,  as  Al- 
gonquian  grammar  requires  in  such  a  case)  means  '  round  about 
the  land,'  *  earth,'  or  'country,'  not  *  going-around  place,'  and  could 
not  be  used  as  a  name  for  a  locality.  The  place  was  doubtless 
named  from  the  presence  there  of  a  conspicuous  specimen  of  windi, 
or  sassafras,  a  tree  which  in  favorable  situations  attains  a  great 
height. 

Appamatuck,  —  By  a  slip  of  the  pen,  I  stated  that  this  name  was 
given  to  several  places  situated  in  the  vicinity  of  a  river-bend.  Al- 
though the  name  is  applicable  to  any  decided  curve  in  a  tidal  river, 
there  is  no  evidence  that  it  was  given  to  any  other  in  Virginia  than 
the  very  wide  one  which  James  river  makes  previous  to  the  influx 
of  the  Appomattox  at  City  Point.  It  was  a  locality  on  this  bend 
that  the  first  explorers  of  the  river  knew  as  the  '*  Country  of  Apa- 
matica."  This  word,  spelled  also  Apainatecohy  stands  for  Apdmd- 
Uku^  or  better,  ApdffUtiku,  and  means  *  river-bend.'  It  was  the 
designation  of  a  tract  of  land  on  which  stood  an  Indian  village  of 
the  same  name  on  the  site  (according  to  Jefferson)  of  Bermuda 
Hundred,  in  Chesterfield  county.  The  word  in  a  verbal  form  is 
dpdmitikwe,  meaning  the  *  river  makes  a  bend,'  *  turns  about,'  and 
is  cognate  with  Ojibwe  dbdmltlgweia^  in  which  the  suflftx  ia  is  that 
of  an  impersonal  verb.  The  root  dpdm^  dbdm,  *  to  turn  around,'  is 
found  in  the  dialects  of  Cree,  Ojibwe,  Abnaki,  and  Massachusetts, 
and  probably  in  those  of  all  other  Algonquian  groups.  The  suflftx 
'Ukwe  =  Nipissing  -tlkweia^  =  Ojibwe  -tlgweia^  =  Cree  -tlkweiaWy 
means  '(tidal)  river.' 

Prof.  Scheie  Devere  (Amencam'sms,  p.  63)  tells  his  readers  that 
the  name  is  "  from  Apomatox,  the  Indian  for  Tobacco-plant 
Country  "  !     Mr  Tooker,  inspired  by  a  picture  of  a  mulberry  tree. 


*  ** .  .  .  a  sharpe  point,  which  is  parte  of  Winauk  :  ** — Archer. 
'  ''The  analysis  of  a  geographical  name  must  be  sought  in  the  language  spoken  by 
the  name-givers." — Trumbull  in  ColL  Conn.  Hist.  Soc.y  11,  p.  50. 


{ 


224  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

with  an  Indian  "queen"  sitting  on  a  mat  beneath  it,  derives  the 
name  from  appu^  'he  (or  she)  sits,'  'abides,'  *  remains,'  *  rests,'  and 
'tneiuc  or  -fnatuck,  *  a  tree,'  and  imagines  that,  by  hyphenating 
these  two  words,  he  converts  the  intransitive  verb  apu  into  a  par- 
ticipial adjective  and  gives  the  compound  the  meaning  of  '  resting 
tree*!  In  support  of  his  "etymology,"  he  offers,  as  cognates, 
"Cree  apiw-mistick  (Lacombe),  appti-mistick  (Howse)."  It  is 
hardly  necessary  to  say  that  these  two  scholarly  men,  Pere  La- 
combe and  Mr  Howse,  never  hyphenated  these  two  words,  as 
might  seem  to  be  the  case  from  the  enumeration  of  Mr  Tooker's 
so-called  "  cognates." 

Chickahominy. — The  fact  that  the  three  last  syllables  of  this  word 
constitute  those  that  form  the  name  of  a  well-known  food  product 
has  led  to  the  erroneous  conclusion  that  the  two  words  are  in  some 
way  connected,  and  also  to  the  delusion  that  the  suffix  in  each  of 
them  stands  for  the  inseparable  substantival  -min^  meaning  '  fruit,' 
*  seed,'  or  *  grain,'  and  sometimes  used  specifically  to  designate  a 
grain  of  Indian  corn.  Such  was  the  idea  of  Professor  Devere,  who 
derived  the  name  from  the  impossible  word  checahaminend,  to 
which  he  ascribed  the  meaning  of  'land  of  much  grain.'  Mr 
Tooker  also  seeing  in  the  word  some  reference  to  Indian  com,  and 
laboring  under  the  mistaken  belief  that  it  was  the  name  of  a  people 
and  not  of  a  place,  offers  in  explanation  of  it  a  word  of  so  novel 
construction  that  I  shall  pause  for  a  moment  to  analyze  it.  This 
word,  to  which  he  attributes  the  meaning  of  *  coarse-pounded  com 
people,'  is  chick-aham-min-anough.  In  his  explanation  of  this  com- 
pound,^ he  tells  us  that  the  element  -aham  is  a  "  special  affix  or 
verb"  {sic),  which  implies  that  he  "beats  or  batters"  the  object 
viin  after  the  manner  of  the  root-word  or  prefix  chick.  In  the 
eastern  Algonquian  dialects  the  intransitive  verbal  suffix  -ham  and 
the  corresponding  transitive  -havien,  denote  forcible  action,  and, 
when  combined  with  roots  meaning  '  to  hit,'  or  '  strike,'  form  intran- 
sitive and  transitive  verbs  that  assert,  respectively,  that  the  sub- 
ject 'pounds  '  or  '  brays,'  or  'pounds  it'  or  '  brays  it'  (something 
inanimate).  Since  -ham  is  an  intransitive  suffix,  and  intransitive 
verbs  do  not  govern  objectives,  it  is  difficult  to  see  why  Mr  Tooker 

'  Algonquian  Series,  IX. 


GERARD]  SOME  VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  22$ 

should  select  an  object  for  his  intransitive  verb  and  why  he  should 
suffix  it  to  the  latter,  for  even  had  his  verb  a  transitive  form,  the 
object  could  not  be  affixed  to  it,  but  would  have  to  consist  of  a 
substantive  standing  apart  In  order  to  indicate  the  manner  in^ 
which  the  object  is  brayed,  he  selects  the  adjective  kiichi,  which  he 
uses  in  the  sense  of  *  coarse,'  a  meaning  which  it  could  not  possibly 
have.  This  adjective  denotes,  primarily,  superiority  or  preeminence, 
and,  when  employed  in  the  sense  of  '  large,'  or  '  great,'  signifies 
that  the  thing  qualified  is  large  or  great  as  compared  with  some 
object  of  the  same  class  or  similar  to  it.  From  its  peculiar  mean- 
ing it  could  not  be  used  as  a  root  for  a  verb  expressing  forcible 
action.  Having  abbreviated  this  adjective  to  chi^  Mr  Tooker  finds 
that  he  needs  a  ^  in  his  word  and  thereupon  boldly  affixes  this 
letter  to  the  adjective  and  thereby  forms  a  root  ^  of  entirely  different 
meaning.  Of  the  suffix  anoughy  of  the  meaning  of  which  I  have  to 
confess  my  ignorance,  Mr  Tooker  regards  the  terminal  y  in  the 
word  Chickahominy  as  a  **  softened  "  form.  It  will  be  seen  from 
this  brief  analysis  that  the  combination  under  consideration  does 
not  constitute  a  word,  but  is  simply  a  collocation  of  vowels  and 
consonants. 

In  the  eastern  Algonquian  dialects,  verbs  having  the  inanimate 
active  transitive  form  of  the  class  ending  in  -min  *  had  the  peculi- 
arity that  they  could  be  used  as  passive  participial  adjectives, '  and, 
from  this  sense,  could  pass  to  that  of  substantives. 

The  Indians  of  Virginia  (like  those  of  the  three  Americas,  from 
Maine  as  far  south  as  to  Peru)  made  a  very  nutritious  food  prepara- 
tion by  parching  Indian  com  and  reducing  it  to  a  fine  powder, 
which  they  called  rokihdminy  *  softened.'  This  word  is  cognate 
with  Abnaki  nuk*hdmSn,  used  as  a  designation  for  flour,  and  with 
Lenape  lok'hdfn^n,  used  as  a  name  for  bran  or  shorts.  In  Stra- 
chey's  time  (1610-13),  this  word  had  undergone  no  alteration;  but 
later  on,  it  became,  in  the  pronunciation  of  English-speaking  people, 
rockahominie  (Beverly,  1705),  rockahomine  (Lawson,  1709),  rocka- 

^  KUchikf  *  to  be  speckled,*  'spotted,*  'dappled.* 

*  This  suffix  has  been  spelled  with  all  the  short  vowels  of  the  alphabet :  -mSn^ 
mdftf  min,  mln,  mUn. 

'For  example:  Natick,  HsowitaMtin,  *he  names  it,'  iisawit&miin  (pass,  adj.) 
'named'  ;  v/HsaJkA^mtin,  *he  writes  it,*  wHsiikhilmtln  (pass,  adj.)  'written.* 


226  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

hominy  (Byrd,  1728).  Again,  the  natives  of  Virginia,  by  boiling 
the  acorns  of  the  basket  and  live  oaks  {Quercus  michauxii  and  Q. 
virens)  in  water,  extracted  therefrom  an  oil  which  they  called  mdnd- 
hdmin^  *  removed  from,'  *  skimmed  from/  In  the  pronunciation  of 
the  settlers  this  word  soon  became  fnoftohominy.  The  Virginians 
also  made  a  food  product  by  coarsely  cracking  Indian  com,  win- 
nowing away  the  chaff,  and  sifting  out  the  flour,  and,  to  it,  as  well 
as  to  the  porridge  prepared  from  it,  applied  the  name  of  usikute- 
hemin,  meaning  *  crushed  by  pounding  *  (from  //,  prosthetic  vowel ; 
siku,  a  root  meaning  *  to  crush  *  ;  /^,  a  particle  denoting  that  the 
action  expressed  in  the  root  is  done  with  a  blow  or  stroke  ;  and 
hem^n,  a  verbal  suffix  denoting,  in  the  transitive  form  of  the  verb, 
instrumental  action  upon  an  inanimate  object).  Strachey  appears 
to  have  been  acquainted  with  this  word  only  in  such  corrupted 
forms  as  tisketehamuu,  uskatahomen,  and  usketehamun.  The  Eng- 
lish colonists  soon  became  very  familiar  with  this  Indian  food  prod- 
uct, but,  finding  its  aboriginal  name  altogether  too  cumbersome  for 
current  use,  contracted  the  already  corrupted  word  to  its  verbal 
suffix,  homen,  hamun,  homin,  etc.,  and,  rounding  off  this  disjunctum 
membrum  with  a  vowel,  formed  such  terms  as  homeni,  fiamuni, 
homini,  etc.  The  very  first  mention,  in  print,  of  this  abbreviated 
word  IS  found  in  the  form  of  liomini  in  Smith's  Tn^e  Travels^  Ad- 
ventures and  Obser-cations,  p.  43  (1630).  Thus  originated  a  term 
concerning  the  source  and  meaning  of  which  there  has  been,  up  to 
the  very  present  (the  writing  of  these  lines),  more  speculation  than 
about  any  other  Indian  word  that  has  entered  the  English  language. 
A  few  miles  above  the  mouth  of  a  tributary  of  James  river  was 
situated  the  town  ^  of  a  "  lustie  and  daring  people  "  (independent  of 
Powhatan)  on  a  tract  of  land  called  Tsldkihdm^ii  ^  (or,  in  the  spell- 
ing of  the  period,  Chicohomin,  Chickahatnan,  Chickahamin),  meaning 
'  scraped,*  '  swept,'  and  implying  a  clearing.  Smith,  who  was  the 
first  to  visit  this  town  (on  the  morning  of  November  10,   1607), 

*  The  exact  location  of  this  town,  which  must  have  been  of  some  importance,  is  not 
known,  since  it  does  not  appear  on  Smith's  map  ;  but  we  know  from  the  Trttf  Relation 
that  it  was  situated  between  the  mouth  of  the  river  and  the  town  of  Manascosick,  which 
lay  at  a  point  10  or  12  miles  upstream. 

*  Thb  verb  is  found  in  every  Algonquian  dialect  from  Maine  to  Virginia.  It  is  from 
the  root  tshik  (i)  *to  scrape*  ;  (2)  *to  sweep.' 


GERARD]  SOME  VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  22/ 

made  its  name  known  in  the  form  of  Chickahamania,  a  spelling  in 
which  the  Latin  toponymic  suffix  -ia  was  an  addition  of  his  own, 
just  as  was  the  same  suffix  in  such  Indian  names  as  Tanxitania  and 
Shakaconia.  The  various  writers  of  the  period  changed  Smith's 
expletive  syllables  to  e,  a,  ie,  and  y^  the  latter  of  which  prevailed.* 
Thus  originated  the  name  Chickahominy,  a  word  which,  like  rocka^ 
hominy  and  monohomifiy,  has  preserved  its  root  and  taken  on  a  par- 
agogic  syllable,  while  hominy^  with  its  expletive  syllable,  is  simply 
the  corrupted  suffix  of  a  verb  which  has  suffered  the  apheresis  of 
its  root  {sikUy  *  to  crush  *). 

Pamatmkee,  —  This  was  the  general  name  for  a  tract  of  land  in 
what  is  now  King  William  county,  beginning  at  the  confluence  of 
what  are  called  the  Pamunkey  and  Mattapony  rivers,  and,  accord- 
ing to  Smith's  description,  was  characterized  by  numerous  high  hills 
composed  of  sand  —  probably  drift-sand  and  hence  sloping.  Speak- 
ing of  the  religious  observances  of  the  Powhatans,  Smith  says  that 
**  their  principall  Temple  or  place  of  superstition  is  at  Vttamussack^ 
at  [that  is,  in]  Pamaronker  Mr  Tooker,  jumping  at  the  conclusion 
that  these  words  form  a  compound,  hyphenates  them  and,  in  a 
former  essay,*  thus  proceeds  to  analyze  them  :  W,  he  tells  us, 
means  '  at,'  or  *  in.'  It  really  did  have  that  meaning  in  some  of  the 
dialects  of  Massachusetts,  to  which  the  use  of  it  was  confined,  and 
none  of  which  was  ever  spoken  on  the  Pamunkey.  Mussa^  he  says, 
means  'woods.'  The  Virginia  word  mussi  designated  a  'log'  or 
*  billet  of  wood,'  not  wood  or  woods  in  the  sense  of  a  collection  of 
trees.  To  the  terminal  -ack  Mr  Tooker  ascribes  the  meaning  of 
'  place,'  probably  having  in  view  the  word  aki^  '  land,'  *  country,' 
'earth.'  The  second  element  of  his  compound,  Pamaunkee,  Mr 
Tooker  states  to  be  a  "  form  of  a  verb  to  hide  [pamukque,  Eliot)." 

Uttamussack  (=  tdmtsack,  with  prosthetic  72),  which  Mr  Tooker 

^  The  practice  of  adding  a  syllable  to  the  suffix  of  passive  adjectives  of  this  class  was 
not  confined  to  the  people  of  the  South,  for  we  find  an  example  of  it  in  the  North.  The 
Lenape  Indians  of  New  Jersey  called  the  thin-shelled  nut  of  the  shag-bark  hickory  ( Carya 
alba) J  sikuskandamifif  meaning  *  crushed  with  the  teeth.*  Among  the  many  corruptions 
which  this  word  underwent  in  the  vicinity  of  New  York  City  was  that  of  cuskatominy. 

*  Utamussac  was  at  the  head  of  the  second  northerly  bend  of  the  Pamunkey,  west  of 
the  fork,  and  was  the  site  of  a  place  put  down  on  Jefferson's  map  as  Quinlan. 

^  Algonquian  Series ^  ix. 


228  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

has  SO  carefully  analyzed,  was  the  Virginia  name  for  a  knife/  a 
sharp  edged  piece  of  flint  or  quartzite,  generally  of  triangular  shape. 
The  word  is  an  apocopated  form  of  tdm^sdkd?t,  meaning,  literally, 
a  *  sharp-edged  cutting  utensil/  Uttamasack  was  probably  the 
name  of  an  Indian  "  workshop,"  where  these  implements  were  manu- 
factured. The  word  may  be  an  abbreviation  of  tdmHakdnikdn, 
meaning  *  place  where  knives  are  made.' 

Never  having  seen  in  Eliot's  translation  of  the  Bible,  or  in  any 
of  his  writings,  such  a  word  as  pavmkque,  meaning  '  to  hide,'  my 
curiosity  led  me  to  look  it  up.  Upon  examining  the  Natick  Dic- 
tionary^ I  found  therein  the  inanimate  passive  verbal  adjective 
assampamukquodt^  which  Eliot  uses  in  the  sense  of  *  hiding  place,' 
although  the  meaning  of  the  word  is  almost  directly  the  reverse, 
viz.,  'it  is  seen  in  a  certain  manner,'  *it  appears  so.'  *  The  word  is 
formed  from  the  adverb  of  manner,  as,  *  so,'  *  in  such  a  way,*  and 
the  inanimate  passive  adjective  (w)ompafnukquodt,  'it  is  seen.' 
Eliot  (as  well  as  Cotton)  was  in  the  habit  of  irregularly  and  unnec- 
essarily *  forming  another  adjective  from  this  class  by  rejecting  the 
termination  -at  and  substituting  e  (=  i)  therefor.  His  new  word 
in  the  present  case  was  assompamukque.  Here,  then,  we  find  the 
origin  of  Mr  Tooker's  patnukque,  which,  as  will  be  observed,  con- 
sists of  /,  the  characteristic  of  the  root  womp,  *  to  see '  or  *  be 
seen,'  and  the  formative  syllables  amukque.  To  the  above-men- 
tioned remarkable  compound  its  author  ascribes  the  meaning  of  '  a 
place  of  secrecy  in  the  woods '  ! 

As  I  have  already  stated,  pamaunkfe  (  ^pafna^'h)  means  '  slop- 
ing hill,'  or  *  rising  upland,'  from  pdm  {p^m,  plm,  pum,  according 
to  dialect),  '  sloping,'  '  slanting,'  *  oblique,'  and  -a^'ki,  '  hill,' 
'mountain,'  or  'highland';  ==  Ojibwe  -dki,  'hill'  or  'mountain,' 
in  such  words  as  nissdki,  '  at  the  bottom  of  a  hill,'  ogiddki,  '  on  a 
hill,'  awassdkiy  '  beyond  the  hill.'     The  particle  dk,  c^k,  (tg,  denot- 

1  In  Smith's  Tocabulary  we  find  ''  Pamesacks,  Kniues,"  where  the  terminal  x  is  a  sign 
of  the  English  plural,  and  the  inital  P  an  error  of  the  press  for  T,  Strachey  writes  the 
word  damassac. 

*  Blunders  of  this  kind  are  not  infrequent  in  Eliot's  writings. 

'Unnecessarily,  because  the  new  adjective  had  precisely  the  same  meaning  (that  of 
a  passive  participial  adjective)  for  the  reason  that  the  kw  (ku)  of  the  suffix  is  a  particle 
characteristic  of  the  passive  voice. 


\ 


GERARD]  SOME  VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  229 

ing  '  height  *  or  '  elevation,*  is  used  in  several  Algonquian  dialects  ; 
e.  g. :  Abnaki  pimttkke,  the  *  high  land  slopes/  pni^kd^ku^  *  sandy 
hill/  (tbagwd^ki^  *  under  shelter  of  a  hill/  nissd^lare^  '  he  goes  to 
the  bottom  of  a  hill/  usa^'kuk,  *  on  a  hill  *;  Natick  sdk(tkwdt,  a 
height  (lit.  *  it  is  very  high ') ;  Lenape  mand^gihleu  (corrupt,  to 
Monongahela),  '  it  (earth)  separates  from  (man)  the  hill  {(tfg)  and 
slides  quickly  {-i/t/fuy  an  impersonal  adjective  verb  used  substan- 
tively as  a  designation  for  a  landslide.  But  why  multiply  examples, 
when  the  meaning  of  the  word  under  consideration  is  so  clear  ? 

Wirawokomdko,  —  Mr  Tooker  says  that  this  word  is  "  easy  of 
identification"  (interpretation),  and  yet,  instead  of  at  once  interpret- 
ing it  for  himself,  goes  back  nearly  three  hundred  years  (after 
stopping  for  a  moment  with  Trumbull  in  order  to  get  the  latter's 
opinion)  and  consults  Strachey,  who  gives  him  the  information, 
which,  without  examination,  he  unhesitatingly  accepts,  that  the 
word  '*by  interpretacion  signifies  Kinge's  house."  What  little 
Strachey  knew  about  the  language  of  the  Indians  with  whom  he 
came  into  contact  was  merely  that  which  he  gained  by  ear.  He 
knew  that  the  first  two  syllables  of  the  word  under  consideration 
were  found  in  the  name  for  "king,"  and  jumped  to  the  conclusion 
that  the  shorter  word  was  incorporated  in  the  longer,  whereas  the 
only  thing  that  the  two  vocables  have  in  common  is  the  root. 
The  name  Wirowokomdko  was  applied  to  a  tract  of  land  "vpon 
salt  water,  in  bredth  two  myles"  (Smith),  and  not  to  Powhatan's 
house,  the  breadth  of  which  must  have  fallen  short  of  that  figure 
by  10,540  feet  at  the  very  least  estimate.  As  I  have  before  stated, 
wirowokomdko  means  "fertile  land."  It  is  cognate  with  Natick 
winudkomuky  which  Cotton  interprets  *fat  ground,*  and  is  from 
the  root  wiro,  =  Natick  tuinu^  =  Naskapi  welu,  =  Montagnais  weru, 
=  Prairie  Cree  weyo  (and,  in  Old  and  Modem  Lenape,  by  change 
of  characteristic,  tmrd,  wUd^  =  Old  and  Modem  Abnaki  wUol),  '  to 
be  rich,'   *  fecund,'  *  prolific,*  ^  and  (of  land)  *  fertile  *  or  '  productive.' 

The  name  for  a  native  ruler  among  the  Virginians,  variously 
written  wirbans^  weroance^  werowance,  and  wyroaunce^  means  *he 


I  It  is  in  this  sense  that  it  is  found  in  the  Natick  and  Lenape  name  for  the  grape, 
winomin  and  wilam^  *  prolific  fruit.' 


230  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

is  rich/  or,  more  accurately,  'he  lives  (or  exists)  in  affluence.*^ 
The  suffix  -ans,  -artce,  -aunce,  is  a  contraction  (due  to  the  shifting  of 
the  accent  forward  to  ^,  the  characteristic  of  the  root)  of  -^"/  *s,  for 
'(fiis,  for  -a^tisu^  =  Ojibwe  -atlsiy  =  Cree  -dtlsiu,  an  animate  ver- 
bal adjective  suffix  denoting  a  manner  of  being,  of  existence,  or 
of  behavior,  and  also  character. 

Aiiowhy  a  *  ball.* — Mr  Tooker  thinks  that  I  deserve  great  credit 
"in  a  measure,"  for  my  remarks  on  this  word,  but  that  I  did  •*  not 
go  far  enough  into  the  subject  to  show  the  exact  status  of  the  radical. 
The  word  did  not  signify  *  a  ball,'  *  a  round  thing  ' :  "  Had  I  gone 
a  little  farther  into  the  subject,  I  might  have  stated  that  the  Nas- 
kapi  (Cree)  form  of  the  root  is  tuu,  whence  the  substantive  tuudn^ 
defined  in  that  dialect  as  a  *  ball,'  '  globe,'  or  *  any  round  object.' 
Still,  I  did  not  say,  or  even  intimate,  that  the  root  means  *  to  be 
round.' 

My  statement  that  the  root  is  found  in  the  formative  of  words  re- 
lating to  the  game  of  lacrosse  started  Mr  Tooker  on  a  line  of  profound 
philological  inquiry  that  led  to  a  remarkable  result.  Finding  that, 
in  Ojibwe,  the  name  for  '  ball-play  *  is  pagaadozuewin,  he  at  once 
came  to  the  conclusion,  on  the  doctrine  of  resemblances,  that  the 
"  equivalent  of  the  Powhatan  term  is  more  fully  displayed  in  the 
[Narragansett]  word  pauochdutaivwin,  *  a  Bable  [=  a  bauble]  to 
play  with.'  "  Erroneously  dividing  this  word,  he  confidently  states 
that  the  latter  is  from  pdtiochdu  *  to  play,'  and  autow,  *a  bauble.' 
Pauochdu,  however,  does  not  mean  '  to  play,*  but  'he  (or  she)  plays,' 
or  *  dances.'  Now,  it  is  quite  evident  that  if  antow  were  a  substan- 
tive, it  could  not  be  suffixed  to  a  verb,  either  intransitive  or  transi- 
tive. The  fact  of  the  matter  is  simply  this :  in  Narragansett,  -tcnv- 
win  (written  also  by  Roger  Williams  -touwin,  -teouwin,  and  -teonin) 
is  an  inanimate  active  transitive  verbal  suffix.     The  intransitive  verb 


1  The  Pequot-Mohegan  name,  also,  for  a  chief  was  wQy&wa' ghu^  *  he  is  rich  * 
(lives  in  affiuence  ;  =  Caniba  wiraiuighu). 

'  In  the  writing  of  Indian  words,  the  failure  to  note  the  sound  of  f  or  d  when  pre- 
ceded by  a  long  or  nasalized  vowel  was  a  common  practice  in  colonial  times.  Thus, 
Eliot  writes  aunchentukau  for  a^fshlmukeu  ;  puthonchtt  for  fntta'^tshu^  etc.  A  similar  eli- 
sion of  /  sometimes  occurred  in  English  words  as  written  by  some  of  the  early  visitors  to 
this  country.  Thus,  Hariot,  who  wrote  wiroans^  Smith,  werowance^  and  Strachey, 
weroanctf  respectively,  wrote  inhabitans,  inhabitaunce,  and  inhabitance  for  the  English 
word  inhabitants. 


GERARD]  SOME  VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  23 1 

pauochau  means,  as  above  stated,  *  he  (or  she)  plays/  or  '  dances/ 
and  the  transitive  verb  pauochduiowwin  means  '  he  (or  she)  plays 
(or  dances)  with  it ' ;  hence,  passively  (according  to  Narragansett 
grammar),  *  what  is  played  with,*  say  a  bauble,  or  '  what  is  danced 
with,*  say  some  object  held  in  the  hand.  In  like  manner  we  have 
monaskunem  (intransitive)  '  he  weeds,'  and  monaskunemautowwin 
(transitive)  *he  weeds  with  it';  hence,  passively,'  what  is  weeded 
with,'  i.  e.,  a  hoe  (not  a  bauble !). 

It  will  be  seen  from  this  that  there  is  the  same  etymological 
connection  between  the  Ojibwe  and  Narragansett  words  above  cited 
as  there  is  between  the  English  word  ball^  a  '  sphere,'  and  ball,  a 

*  dance,*  that  is  to  say,  none  whatever. 

Attaangwassuwk  (Strachey)  =  dtdl^kwusdk,  a  'star.'  —  In  com- 
menting on  this  word,  Mr  Tooker  observes  that  Mr  Gerard  believes 
it  *'to  be  a  plural  form,  but  his  mistake  is  evident  when  we  compare 
the  name  with  its  cognates,  for  the  long  {sic)  form  is  seemingly 
attaang,  *  a  star,'  +  -wassuwk  (=  Natick  wohsumuk,  *  bright'  or  '  shin- 
ing,' Lenape  zvaseleu,  '  bright '),  hence  '  a  shining  star '  or  '  he  ap- 
pears shining'"!  It  would  require  but  the  most  elementary 
knowledge  of  Algonquian  grammar  to  know  that  an  adjective  used 
attributively  cannot  be  suffixed  to  the  noun  which  it  qualifies.  To 
express  the  idea  that  a  *  star  shines  *  or  '  is  bright,'  '  shining,*  '  bril- 
liant/ or  '  sparkling,'  requires  the  use  of  a  predicative  verbal  adjec- 
tive that  affirms  or  predicates  of  the  star  that  it  has  the  property  of 
brilliancy,  brightness,  or  luminosity ;  as,  for  example,  Cree  wdsisuw 
atakw,  *  the  star  shines '  (lit.  '  is  brilliant  *  or  '  shining  *)  ;  Ojibwe 
wdsseriagoshka  andng,  *  the  star  shines '  (lit.  '  is  brilliant,'  '  bright,' 

*  shining  *). 

The  Algonquian  names  for  star  (that  is  to  say,  those  that  are 
cognates  of  the  one  under  consideration)  are  divided  into  two  classes, 
one  embracing  primitive  and  the  other  diminutive  terms — diminutive 
in  form,  but  not  necessarily  so  in  sense,  since  the  Algonquian  dimin- 
utive suffix  sometimes  denotes  regard,  endearment,  or  affection. 
The  characteristic  k  or  g  of  these  names  is  always  accompanied  with 
w,  or,  in  dialects  in  which  that  letter  is  not  pronounced,  o.  This 
letter  may  be  lost  in  the  pronunciation  of  the  simple  form  of  the 
word,  but  always  makes  its  appearance  when  the  latter  takes  a  suffix 

AM.  ANTH.,  H.  S.,  7— 16 


f! 


232  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

beginning  with  a  vowel.  In  fact,  it  is  a  part  of  the  characteristic. 
In  the  word  under  consideration  the  primitive  form  is  at(tkw ;  us  is 
a  diminutive ;  and  -ak  is  an  animate  plural  suffix. 

AtemuSy  *  dog.' —  Mr  Tooker  says  that  he  agrees  with  Trumbull, 
who  considered  the  forms  attm,  an  urn,  arum^  alum,  ayim,  etc,  as 
derivatives  from  distinct  elements,  i.  e.,  "  those  words  which  have 
the  /  in  *  certain  positions/  like  the  Powhatan  attemaus,  Cree  atim^ 
Abn.  atiiy  Pequot  ahteah,  indicate  that  the  word  is  related  to  the 
Natick  verb  adchu,  '  he  hunts,'  while  those  with  the  form  anum^ 
alum,  or  arufu  are  from  the  verb  annumau,  *  he  holds  [it]  with  his 
mouth.'  "  It  is  evident  from  these  remarks  and  others  of  like  char- 
acter made  elsewhere  in  Mr  Tooker's  article,  that  phonetics  play  no 
part  with  him  in  the  study  of  linguistics.  A  very  slight  acquain- 
tance with  the  laws  of  Algonquian  letter-changes,  most  of  which  are 
invariable,  would  show  that  the  names  for  dog  given  in  my  study 
1.  I  of  the  subject  are  cognate  words  ;  and,  moreover,  are  radical.     Dr 

jii  Trumbull  never  made  the  remarkable  statement  that  Cree  atim 

''  ■  (dim.  atimus)  and  Abnaki  atie  were  related  words  ;  but  what  he  did 

say  was  that  atie  and  its  Pequot  cognate  were  related  to  adchu,  'he 
hunts.'     There  is  no  more  etymological  connection  between  aim 
and  atie  than  there  is  between  the  English  words  hound  and  hunt^ 
rj  I  or  ear  and  hear,  or  between  Cree  atim,  =  Ojibwe  aniin  *=  Caniba 

arem  (primitive  form),  *  dog,'  and  Cree  atim,  =  Ojibwe  anim,  =■ 
i'  Caniba  arem, '  to  turn  the  back  upon.'     In  explanation  of  the  Massa- 

(!  chusetts  word  anum,  Dr  Trumbull  suggested  the  transitive  verb 

i: .  annumaii,  to  which  he  ascribed  the  meaning  of  *  he  holds  it  (some 

j,  animate  object)  with  the  mouth.'     There  are  several  objections  to 

this  view  :  (i)  the  word  used  by  Trumbull  in  this  sense  really  means, 
as  Eliot  employs  it,  *  he  helps  him';  (2)  active  transitive  verbs 
are  never  used  by  the  Algonquians  in  the  nomenclature  of  animals; 
(3)  Natick  afium  and  its  cognates  are  radical  words,  the  character- 
istic of  which  is  accompanied  with  zu  (or  0  in  some  western  and 
northern  dialects)  which,  although  it  may  be  lost  in  pronunciation, 
always  makes  its  appearance  when  the  word  takes  a  suffix  begin- 
ning with  a  vowel  (a  diminutive  or  plural).^ 

1  Speaking  of  the  sound  of  this  letter,  which,  when  it  accompanies  the  characteristic 
of  a  root,  of\en  distinguishes  from  each  other  roots  and  radical  words  of  an  otherwise 


i 


GERARD]  SOME   VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  233 

Mr  Tooker  remarks  that  Mr  Gerard  writes  :  "Another  Lenape 
word  for  dog  ...  is  mowekaneu}  *  he  eats  bones.'  "  **0n  the  con- 
trary," confidently  asserts  the  commentator,  "  the  word  signifies  '  he 
cries  or  howls  in  the  dark  '  *'  !  In  support  of  this  extraordinary  ety- 
mology, the  only  explanation  that  he  offers  is  the  mere  mention  of 
the  Natick  verb  mail,  *  he  cries,*  *  weeps/  As  to  how  such  a  verb 
could  take  a  suffix  kaneu  to  give  it  the  meaning  of  '  he  cries  in  the 
dark,*  we,  like  the  dog  during  his  weeping,  are  all  **  in  the  dark." 
I  do  not  think  it  probable  that  it  ever  occurred  to  an  Algonquian  to 
speak  of  the  weeping  of  a  dog.  The  Algonquian  verb  meaning  '  he 
howls '  is  onomatopoetic,  and,  in  one  of  its  forms,  resembles  the 
English  word :  Naskapi  (Cree)  ///«,  =  Natick  unu^  =  Ojibwe  ono^ 
=  Prairie  Cree  oyuw,  etc.  (compare  Latin  ululat,  '  he  howls,*  Greek 
lilao),  '  he  howls,*  and  German  er  heult,  '  he  howls  *). 

It  is  perhaps  known  to  every  student  of  Algonquian  (if  it  is  not, 
it  ought  to  be )  that  one  of  the  commonest  methods  of  forming  verbs 
is  by  the  incorporation  of  substantives  or  of  semi-radicals  represent- 
ing substantives.  Moweu  means  '  he  (or  she)  eats  animate  food,'  or 
food  which  is  classed  among  animate  objects.  In  Lenape,  by  incor- 
porating kan^  '  bone,*  we  have  mawekdneu,  *  he  eats  bones  * ;  in 
Caniba,  by  incorporating  the  semi-radical  -(triaghw^  meaning 
'  snow,*  we  have  inowct' riaghwe ,  *  he  eats  snow  * ;  in  Cree,  by  in- 
corporating kuity '  snow,*  taken  as  animate,  we  have  mowdkuneu^  '  he 
eats  snow  *  ;  in  Narragansett,  by  incorporating  the  word  diiokw, 
*  deer,'  we  have  modttokweUy  *  he  eats  deer,*  and,  by  changing  the 
intransitive  to  a  verbal  adjective  suffix,  we  have  moattbkwus,  '  deer- 
eater,*  a  name  for  the  black  wolf,  called  also  deer-wolf."  All  this  is 
simple,  and  of  so  very  elementary  a  character  that  it  did  not  occur 
to  me  to  furnish  an  analysis  of  the  word  mowekdneu  in  my  article.* 

identical  form,  but  of  very]  different  meaning,  Dr  A.  S.  Gatschet,  in  speaking  of  the 
Abnakis,  says  :  **The  Indians  who  are  in  daily  intercourse  with  white  people  are  apt  to- 
lose  this  queer  sound  [something  like  hu  in  the  French  word  //«iV]  altogether  from  their 
colloquial  language,  but  the  more  aboriginal  an  Indian  remains  the  more  frequently  it 
will  be  heard  when  he  converses  in  his  vernacular." 

1  This  word  is  written  phonetically  vioekaneu  by  Zeisberger,  but  more  correctly  as 
above  by  Cummings,  in  Schoolcraft's  **  Indian  Tribes." 

*'* These  .  .  .  are  called  Z>r<rr  Wolfsy  because  they  are  accustomed  to  prey  upon 
Deer.'''* — Josselyn,  New  Englands  Rarities,  p.  15. 

'To  those  who  are  entering  on  the  study  of  Algonquian,  or  to  those  who  have 


234  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Cuttoundj ^  ktihtju,  —  This,  positively  states  Mr  Tookcr,  "like 
many  of  the  sounds  uttered  by  animals  ...  is  of  onomatopoetic 
origin;  hence  to  attribute  its  derivation  to  a  verb  signifying  'to 
make  a  noise/  or  *  to  speak,'  is  a  mistake,  and  to  make  cawcawwas- 
sough,  *a  captain,'  .  .  .  a  derivative  from  *  bark  of  a  dog*  is  equally 
erroneous."  It  is  equally  erroneous  to  impute  to  me  any  such 
puerile  statements  as  those  just  mentioned.  All  that  I  said  was 
that  kiitu^ju  was  a  doublet  of  karusu,  a  statement  which  would  be 
as  incomprehensible  to  a  person  who  was  not  thoroughly  familiar 
with  the  primitive  and  derivative  meaning  of  Algonquian  roots,^  and 
with  the  regular  letter  changes  which  they  undergo  in  passing  from 
one  group  of  dialects  to  another,  as  would  be,  for  example,  to  a 
person  ignorant  of  "  Grimm's  law,"  the  statement  that  the  two 
English  words  glory  and  slave,  of  so  dissimilar  appearance,  are 
cognates.  KuHTju  is  not  an  onomatopoetic  word  for  the  simple 
reason  that  it  is  not  from  an  onomatopoetic  root.  Its  root  is  kutti, 
=  Cree  kltu  or  klto,  and  this,  by  regular  letter  change,  ==  the  roots  : 
Virginia  karu,  =  Peoria  karo,  =  Ojibwe  g'dno,  =  Natick  ki^nu,  = 
Caniba  kiru,  =  Penobscot  kelu,  etc.  In  order  to  make  it  plain  how 
it  comes  about  that  kiitu^ju  and  kdrtisu  are  precisely  the  same  word 
in  a  different  dialectic  dress  would  require  the  use  of  more  space 

never  been  able  to  grasp  the  principles  of  Algonquian  word-building,  which  are  invari- 
able, very  simple,  and  easily  understood,  I  would  recommend  the  study  of  a  very 
scholarly  paper  on  Some  Principles  of  Algonquian  Word-formation  contributed  by  Dr 
William  Jones  to  No.  3,  vol.  vi,  of  this  journal. 

1  Had  Mr  Tooker  a  more  accurate  acquaintance  with  this  very  important  subject,  he 
would  have  refrained  from  making  the  rash  statement  (p.  685)  that  there  is  no  Abnaki 
root  kal,  'fine,*  'beautiful,'  'good,*  He  will  find  it  in  Passamaquoddy  and  Penobscot 
if  he  looks  for  it.  I  am  somewhat  doubtful  (on  account  of  the  vowel)  as  to  whether  the 
Lenape  root  kor,  kol,  '  fine  *  (as  in  korapeichen,,  *  fine  stream  * )  has  any  connection  ex- 
cept that  of  sense.  But  we  find  kalawil^  'beautiful  head,*  in  the  IValum  Olum.  Again, 
for  the  same  reason,  Mr  Tooker  would  not  have  been  quite  so  positive  in  his  assertion 
(p.  686)  about  the  Cree  root  tQp.  There  are  just  four  Algonquian  roots  of  this  form, 
differing  in  their  initial  letter  according  to  dialect.  One  means  *  to  alternate,'  'recipro- 
cate,* etc.;  another  'to  suspend'  or  'be  suspended  from';  a  third  'to  string'  or  'to 
thread*;  and  a  fourth  'to  fix  one  thing  to  the  end  of  another.'  To  each  of  these  roots 
corresponds  a  Cree  root  t&p.  The  Ojibwe  and  Cree  adverbs  nhiQb  and  eydbitch^  'again,' 
mentioned  by  Mr  Tooker,  have,  of  course,  no  connection  whatever  with  these  roots.  The 
"fictitious  root"!  (p.  686),  Niantic  and  Pequot-Mohegan  ^'rt"/  is  found  in  the  word 
ya^pihSnik,  Dr  Trumbull  was  the  first  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  y  consonant 
in  these  dialects  corresponds  (as  in  Prairie  Cree)  to  the  r  and  /  of  other  dialects. 


GERARD]  SOME  VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  235 

than  I  could  reasonably  ask  for,  since  questions  of  grammar  as  well 
as  of  phonetics  are  involved. 

Captain  Smith,  in  his  True  Relation^  states  that  the  Chicka- 
hominies  were  governed  by  their  priests  assisted  by  their  cawcaw- 
wassoughes.  This  word  is  an  error  of  the  press  for  cawcawrrussough^ 
=  kdkarusu  (**  cockarouse  *'),  *  he  speaks  at  some  length,'  '  he 
expatiates,'  iterative  form  of  kdriisu,  *he  speaks,'  'talks.'  This 
was  originally  the  name  of  an  adviser  —  one  who  gave  his  views 
(usually  in  the  form  of  a  harangue,  among  the  Indians),  when,  at  a 
council  held  by  the  wirdancCy  affairs  of  **  state  "  were  under  discus- 
sion. In  course  of  time,  the  name  lost  its  connotive  character  and 
became  simply  denotive  of  a  good  hunter  or  of  a  man  who  was 
noted  for  performing  brave  or  daring  deeds.^  In  the  early  history 
of  Virginia  (i8th  century),  the  name  *'  cockarouse  "  was  adopted  in 
English  as  a  term  for  a  person  of  consequence.^ 

It  was  upon  the  above-mentioned  misspelled  word  that  Dr 
Trumbull  (who  curiously  did  not  observe  the  typographical  blunder) 
based  his  word  caucaudsu,  to  which  he  ascribed  the  meaning  of '  he 
incites,'  *  encourages,'  etc.,  and  which  he  offered  as  the  origin  of 
the  English  word  "  caucus."  The  root  from  which  Trumbull's  word 
was  formed,  I  have  never  been  able  to  find. 

Cutsenepo  =  crenepo,  *  woman.' —  Had  Mr  Tooker  more  carefully 
read  what  I  had  to  say  about  these  words,  and  had  taken  the  pains  to 
study  them,  and  had  adopted  the  caution  of  Trumbull,  who  was  never 
too  proud  to  say  "  I  do  not  know,"  it  would  have  saved  him  much 
trouble  and  prevented  him  from  putting  into  print  some  very  remark- 
able crudities.  I  stated  very  plainly  that  the  two  words  above  cited 
were  nicknames,  which  is  quite  a  different  thing  from  saying  that 
they  were  names  for  woman  {fnulier).  We  know  very  well  that 
the  Virginians,  like  all  other  Algonquians,  had  a  name  for  woman, 
properly  so  called,  and  that  it  was  apparently  Iskweu  or  dskweu,  and, 
when  suffixed  to  the  personal  name  of  a  female,  was  apocopated  to 
'Iske,     Proceeding  upon  the  assumption  that  crenepo  was  really  the 


*  *'  Thus  a  Fish  finding  it  self  intangled,  wou'd  flounce  and  often  pull  him  under  Water, 
and  then  that  Man  was  counted  a  Cockarouse,  or  brave  fellow  that  wou'd  not  let  go." — 
Beverly,  Hist,  of  Virginia,  Book  ir,  p.  33  (1705). 

•**Cockerouse  is  a  Man  of  Quality." — Cooke,  The  Sot-weed  Factor,  p.  15  (1708). 


236  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Virginia  name  for  woman  {tnulier),  Mr  Tooker  is  led  into  some  very 
curious  speculations  as  to  the  meaning  of  the  word,  which  becomes 
so  obvious  after  the  root  is  known,  as  to  need  not  a  particle  of 
guesswork ;  and,  in  fact,  to  use  Mr  Tooker's  words,  **  is  compara- 
tively simple."  Oblivious  to  the  fact  that  the  word  has  an  initial  c, 
and  that  in  the  analysis  of  an  Algonquian  word  it  is  absolutely  nec- 
essary that  every  letter  and  every  syllable  shall  be  accounted  for, 
Mr  Tooker  says  that  crenepo  **  is  surely  [!]  the  Lenape  (New  Swe- 
den, Campanius)  renappi  \j=rinapc\  'man';  Abnaki  arenanbe 
[==  drina^'be']  ' homme.' '*  " Strachey's  cuchenepo  or  cutsenepo**  he 
proceeds  to  state,  "has  the  same  suffix,  ncpo  (=  Natick  neepoh,  *he 
stands  erect  *),  a  generic  for  man  occurring  in  all  Algonquian  dia- 
lects "  !  This  is  astounding.  In  what  Algonquian  dialect  or  dia- 
lects, I  would  ask,  does  neepOy  either  disjunctively  or  as  a  suffix, 
mean  '  man.'  Is  it  possible  that  Mr  Tooker  supposes  that,  in  the 
Lenape  and  Abnaki  words  which  he  cites,  there  is  a  nappi  and 
nanbe  meaning  *  man '  ?  The  suffix  -dpi  and  -a^be  in  these  words 
is  generic  for  'man,'  but  the  prefix  rCn  and  drCn  means  'true,' 
'  genuine,'  '  natural.' 

Coming  back  to  crenepo,  the  word  is,  as  I  have  already  ex- 
plained, from  the  dissyllabic  root  kiri^'  n  (contracted  to  krin^  owing 
to  the  short  vowel  of  the  first  syllable  and  the  accentuation  of  the 
second),  *  to  carry,'  =  Lenape  giWti  (old  Lenape  giri'n),  =  Penob- 
scot ghiU^n,  =  Natick  k^nuhiy  =  Pequot-Mohegan  ktnu'n ;  with 
the  intransitive  verbal  suffix  -pen,  denoting,  in  this  form,  in  nearly 
all  Algonquian  dialects,  action  with,  by,  in,  or  upon  water.  The 
contraction  of  the  suffix  to  po  was  doubtless  due  to  the  Indians 
themselves,  and  not  to  the  whites,  since  Rev.  Mr  Anthony  (a  full- 
blood  Delaware  Indian)  states  that  the  Minsis  also  pronounce  the 
syllables  -eu  of  verbal  suffixes  as  long  0,  To  repeat  my  former 
statement,  which  no  one  with  an  accurate  knowledge  of  the  princi- 
ples of  Algonquian  word-formation,  and  the  elements  of  the  word 
before  him,  would,  for  a  moment,  venture  to  question,  the  word 
means  '  she  carries  water.'  Such  a  word,  as  a  nickname,  was  not 
ill-chosen,  since  in  a  warm  climate  like  that  of  Vii^nia,  where  a 
considerable  quantity  of  water  must  have  been  needed  to  allay  the 
thirst  induced  by  heat,  in  addition  to  that  required  for  culinary  and 


GERARD]  SOME  VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  237 

Other  domestic  purposes,  and  where  gourds  were  employed  in  lieu 
of  pails  and  pitchers,  the  woman  must  have  been  observed  many 
times  during  the  day  going  to  and  coming  from  the  water  source. 

This  was  one  of  the  things  that  attracted  the  attention  of  John 
White  (artist  of  Raleigh's  second  expedition  to  Virginia  in  1585), 
who  devotes  one  of  the  plates  illustrating  de  Bry's  edition  of 
Hariot's  New  found  land  of  Virginia  to  a  woman  in  her  role  of 
water-carrier,  and  who  is  represented  in  the  act  of  coming  from  a 
body  of  water  in  the  background  and  carrying  in  her  left  hand  a 
gourd  which  the  artist  states  is  "filled  with  sweet  liquid,"  that  is, 
fresh  water. 

The  word  cutsenepo  (=  kuU'n^po,  with  an  assibilated  /)  is  a  cog- 
nate of  crenepOf  although  Mr  Tooker  prefers  to  go  north  and  derive 
it  from  the  Narragansett  kutchinnu,  a  '  middle-aged  man,'  *  +  neepoh, 
'  he  stands ' !  Aside  from  the  fact  that  no  Algonquian  dialect  is  so 
poverty-stricken  as  to  necessitate  the  transfer  of  the  name  for  a 
middle-aged  man  to  a  woman,*  and  to  the  fact  that  the  Virginians 
knew  nothing  about  the  Narragansett  dialect,  no  compound  word 
can  be  formed  in  Algonquian  by  combining  a  substantive  with  the 
verb  with  which  it  agrees.  The  two  words  must  stand  separate 
and  apart  as  in  English.^  That  is  a  question  of  grammar  of  so  ele- 
mentary a  character  that  it  ought  not  to  be  necessary  for  me  to 
direct  attention  to  it. 

Hickory,  —  Mr  Tooker  states  that  the  derivation  of  this  word 
*'  has  long  been  known.**  "  Long  **  is  not  precisely  the  correct  word 
to  use,  since  it  was  but  nine  years  ago  that  I  made  the  history  and 
meaning  of  the  word  known,  for  the  first  time,  in  a  journal  now  out 
of  print*  Since  this  publication  was  not  devoted  to  linguistics,  I 
simply  gave  the  etymology  of  the  word,  which  I  now  embrace  the 

"^  Kutchinnuy  *  superior  man,'  i.  e.,  superior  by  reason  of  age. 

'  The  name  for  an  elderly  or  old  woman,  corresponding  to  kutchinnu,  was  kut- 
chisquOf  'superior  woman.' 

'Mr  Tooker  need  not  have  gone  outside  of  Strachey's  vocabulary  for  a  word  resem- 
bling cutsenepOy  since  he  might  have  found  therein  the  word  cushenepOy  *he  (or  she) 
has  finished  sleeping.'  It  is  found  in  the  phrase  mummascushenepo  {=  ni  mas  cush- 
fnepo)j  *  I  have  been  asleep.' 

*  Garden  and  Forest^  IX,  p.  263  (1896).  See  also  the  Athenaum^  No.  3591 
(1896),  in  which  the  article  is  quoted  by  Prof.  Walter  W.  Skeat  of  Cambridge  Univer- 
sity. 


238  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

opportunity  of  explaining  from  the  view  point  of  grammar.  Pdkd- 
lukdre,  meaning  *it  is  brayed/  is  an  inanimate  passive  adjective 
(which,  like  all  Algonquian  impersonal  verbal  adjectives,  can  be 
used  substantively,  as  it  is  in  the  present  case)  of  which  the  ani- 
mate or  personal  form  is  pdkdhikdsu.  Adjectives  of  this  class  are 
formed  from  the  inanimate  indefinite  of  active  verbs  (in  the  present 
case  pdkdhikeu^  *  he  (or  she)  brays,'  something  inanimate  under- 
stood) by  the  addition  of  the  suffix  -drc  (Powhatan),^  -ddc  (Ojibwe), 
'die  (Nipissing),  -dteii  (Cree),  for  the  inanimate  passive  adjective,  and 
of  'dsu^  =  'dso  (Ojibwe  and  Nipissing),  -dstnu  (Cree)  for  the  animate 
or  personal  form. 

It  is  probably  due  to  the  fact  that  I  did  not  enter  into  the  above 
grammatical  details  that  Mr  Tooker  thought  that  there  might  be 
some  "  conjecture,*'  something  **  quite  erroneous"  about  it,  and  so, 
after  making  a  philological  foray  upon  Massachusetts  and  Lenape 
dictionaries,  obtains  material  for  two  different  combinations  in  ex- 
planation of  the  Virginia  word,  which  is  practically  self-explanatory. 
These  are  "Natick  poqua-hogkSnie  [and]  Lenape  poqui-hackeney^'' 
to  which  are  ascribed  the  meaning  of '  (that  which  is)  made  from 
broken  or  pounded  shells '  !  These  two  productions  are  perhaps 
offered  merely  tentatively  with  the  privilege  of  withdrawal  in 
the  future,  should  they  not  strike  the  fancy  of  philologists.  The 
first  of  these  remarkable  vocables  is  composed  of  the  root  pokw, 
*  to  break,'  and  hogkSnie,  '  made  of  skins  '  (see  Naiick  Dictionary, 
p.  103)  and  the  second  of  the  same  root  and  the  Lenape  word 
hakcy  (with  an  epenthetic  ;/),  the  human  or  animal  '  body.' 

Tapahanackc  —  Rapahanocke  (Smith).  —  Before  attempting  to  in- 
terpret these  names,  Mr  Tooker  favors  us  with  the  admission  that 
they  are  dialectic  forms  of  the  same  word.  Precisely,  and  it  was  this 
very  fact,  which  had  never  before  been  suspected,  that  it  was  one  of 
the  objects  of  my  former  article  to  point  out  and  prove  by  a  presen- 
tation of  the  few  remaining  fragments  of  the  speech  of  a  Virginia 


I  While  in«kin|{  «  copy  of  my  forinvr  article  for  the  press,  I  accidently  omitted  a 
couple  of  liiimorthr  f(Kit  tuitc*  on  {MiKr  317.  which  stated  thnt  the  /in  a  few  suffixes  ending 
la  the  lettrrii  -f/r.  tt%  iru,  did  not  undrrK«>  the  change  of  that  letter  to  r,  but  that  a  curious 

ption  lo  ihli  rule  (mil  rule  5  of  the  text)  was  found  in  the  word  pakahik&ri.  The 
••  WCfptioti "  In  thi»  CAir  really  *<  provi-M  the  rule  "  (rule  5  of  the  text). 


GERARD]  SOME  VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  239 

people  who  could  not  pronounce  the  letter  r ;  but,  in  his  attempt  to 
explain  the  origin  and  meaning  of  these  words,  Mr  Tooker  is  obliged 
to  take  considerable  liberty  with  historical  facts  in  order  to  adapt 
them  to  his  etymologies.  To  explain  the  name  Rapahanock,  a 
Lenape  word  of  which  the  meaning  is  obvious,  and  which  was  dupli- 
cated in  the  name  of  a  river  on  the  east  side  of  Chesapeake  bay, 
Mr  Tooker  prefers  to  relegate  this  to  the  background  for  the 
moment  and  to  devote  his  entire  attention  to  its  doublet.  This,  he 
told  us  in  a  former  essay,^  stood  for  Toppahanough,  meaning,  as  he 
said,  *  encampment  people.*  Such  a  view  was,  of  course,  unten- 
able, for  the  simple  reason  that  there  is  no  Algonquian  root  top 
meaning  '  to  encamp/  and  no  word  anmigh,  meaning  *  people,*  and 
even  if  there  were  such  a  word,  it  could  not  be  suffixed  directly  to 
a  verbal  root.  Since  putting  this  etymology  on  record,  its  author 
has  changed  his  opinion,  and  would  now  account  for  the  name  by 
the  syllabic  combination  toppa-dn-ock,  meaning,  as  he  thinks,  *  the 
country  of  exceeding  plenty,'  and  which  he  analyzes  thus :  toppa^ 
'enough*  'sufficient,'  'plenty,'  +  the  verbal  root  an,  'more  than,' 
'exceeding,'  'surpassing,'  +  ock,  'country,'  'land.'  To  such  a 
"  word,"  were  it  permissible  so  to  call  it,  several  serious  objections 
may  be  urged,  any  one  of  which  would  prove  its  undoing.  In  the 
first  place,  the  Algonquian  root  meaning  *  enough,'  '  plenty,'  is  tip, 
teb,  deb  (French  close  c)^  and  not  top^  which  is  a  radical  of  very 
different  meaning.  In  the  second  place,  there  is  no  Algonquian  root 
^//,  meaning  ' to  exceed,'  'surpass,'  or  'excel,'  and,  even  if  there 
were,  it  could  not  occupy  the  secondary  position  accorded  to  it  by 
Mr  Tooker  in  the  combination  which  he  offers,  since  Algonquian 
words  are  not  constructed  through  an  assemblage  of  primordial 
radicals.  The  root  meaning  'to  excel,'  'surpass,*  'exceed,'  'go 
beyond,'  is  a  dissyllabic  one  having  the  form  of:  Natick,  Mohegan, 
and  Ojibwe  dniu  =  Lenape  dlbti,  =  Quiripi  drbu,  =  Prairie  Cree 
dyiu,  =  Wood  Cree  dihiu,  etc.  No  dissyllabic  radical,  of  course, 
can  be  split  in  two.     The  root :  Natick  and  Narragansett  dn  =  old 


'  Algonquian  Series,  IX. 

*  Tdb  in  Narragansett,  and  /<?/  in  Mohegan,  which  changes  ^,  3,  and  t2  to  ^  ;  but 
these  two  dialects  were  foreign  to  Virginia. 

'7<7/,  *  to  be  immature '  ;  (of  com)  *  to  be  in  the  milk.' 


240  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

and  modern  Lenape,  and  old  and  modem  Abnaki  ^r,  a/,  =  Cree 
aty  means  *to  be  or  to  become  rotten,'  'putrescent,*  'corrupt*  In 
the  Natick  Dictionary  {^.  9),  this  monosyllabic  root  is  confounded 
with  the  dissyllabic  one  above  mentioned.  The  termination  -ock, 
*  country,*  '  land,*  in  Mr  Tooker*s  combination  presumably  stands 
for  -aki,  and  this  would  have  given  the  original  word  the  form  of 
Tapahanaki,  The  root  tep  under  no  circumstances  (except  through 
a  typographical  blunder  in  print)  could  become  rep,  and  so,  of 
course,  there  could  be  no  such  word  ^srepahanock ;  and  tapahanock 
and  rapahanock  could  not  be  cognates,  as  Mr  Tooker  admits  that 
they  are. 

Since  I  have  discussed  this  subject  with  sufficient  thoroughness 
and  given  the  meaning  of  the  words  in  my  former  article,  I  shall 
not  occupy  space  with  a  reiteration  of  the  statements  contained 
therein.  Under  the  same  root  with  these  two  stream-names,  I 
placed  tapantaniy  the  Tapahanek  name  for  deer,  and  its  doublet 
rapantdm,  meaning  '  he  chews  again,'  *  once  more.*  Mr  Tooker 
confidently  asserts  that  "these  two  words  have  quite  a  different 
meaning,  for  the  termination  -antam  ...  is  a  characteristic  forma- 
tive expressing  a  disposition  of  the  mind  [!]  and  was  of  common 
use  both  in  Powhatan  and  Natick."  "In  the  Powhatan  it  occurs 
also  in  tsepaantamen,  '  to  kiss,'  i.  e., '  to  be  separately-minded '  [!]  ; 
.  .  .  naajitam,  'a  wolf,'  .  .  .  i.  e.,  'he  grieves,'  'he  is  sorrow- 
minded,'  referring  to  his  '  mournful  howling '  ;  hence  uttapaantam 
and  rapaantam,  when  applied  to  deer  and  to  venison,  indicated  food 
that  '  enough-minded,'  i.  e.,  '  satisfied '  or  '  contented  them,'  and 
not  that  which  '  he  chews  once  again '  "  !  To  use  one  of  Mr 
Tooker's  phrases,  all  this  "presents  some  curious  ideas  in  specu- 
lative analysis."     -    . 

In  the  dialects  of  the  Algonquian  language,  the  action  of  the 
mind  is  expressed  in  verbs  by  a  particle  placed  before  an  animate 
and  an  inanimate  suffix,  which  has  precisely  the  same  form  as  that 
which  denotes  the  action  of  the  mouth,  but  which,  of  course,  has  a 
different  meaning.  In  the  N-dialects  this  particle  is  e?t,^  in  the 
R-dialects  rr,  in  the  L-dialects  el,  in  Prairie  Cree  ey,  and  in  Wood 

1  Eliot  writes  this  particle  an,  the  acute  accent  denoting  that  the  vowel  has  its  long 
English  sound.     In  Narragansett  and  Mohegan  it  is  -dn,  and  in  Fox  -an. 


GERARD]  SOME  VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  24 1 

Crce  eih.  Since  what  is  called  **  Powhatan  "  was  an  R-dialect,  it  is 
obvious  that  a  word  meaning  *he  is  enough-minded/  'satisfied/ 
would  have  had  the  form  of  teper^fiddm,  not  that  of  tepdntdniy  in 
which  the  suffix  -^ntdtn  denotes  the  action  of  the  mouth  on  an 
inanimate  object  (understood,  since  the  suffix  is  intransitive).  As 
there  could  be  no  root  rep  corresponding  to  tep^  it  follows  that 
there  could  be  no  word  reperi^nddm^  and,  according  to  Mr  Tooker's 
fanciful  etymology,  there  could,  therefore,  have  been  but  one  name 
for  the  deer,  whereas  we  know  that  there  were  two,  and  that  these 
were  doublets. 

The  same  confusion  of  ideas  in  regard  to  verbal  suffixes  leads 
Mr  Tooker  to  assign  to  the  word  tsepaantamen,  *  to  kiss,'  the  mean- 
ing of '  to  be  separately-minded,'  although  it  is  supposable  that  two 
persons  who  indulge  in  the  act  of  osculation  have  one  mind  in 
common,  and,  for  the  time  being,  at  least,  "  two  hearts  that  beat  as 
one."  Algonquian  verbs  expressing  the  act  of  kissing  are  formed 
with  suffixes  denoting  the  action  of  the  mouth,  not  of  the  mind. 
The  Virginia  word  cited  above  means  '  he  (or  she)  parts  the  mouth 
on  it '  (some  inanimate  object).  The  animate  transitive  form  would 
have  been  tsepamawdr,  *  she  parts  the  mouth  on  him,'  or  *  he  parts 
the  mouth  on  her.'  In  naantam,  the  name  for  wolf,  we  have  still 
another  suffix,^  which  denotes  this  time  the  action  of  the  ear. 
Ndntdm  =  Ojibwe  nonddm,  =  Natick  nuidm^  *  he  hears '  (any  kind 
of  noise) ;  the  name  referring  to  the  animal's  well  known  acuteness 
of  ear,  which  is  found  also  in  other  members  of  the  dog  family. 

Coiacohanauke  =  Kaidkuhdnik,  —  In  his  remarks  on  this  word, 
Mr  Tooker  is  pleased  to  say  that  my  interpretation  of  it  is  an  ex- 
ample of"  curious  speculation,"  and  then  proceeds  to  substitute  some 
guesswork  of  the  wildest  sort  for  a  statement  which  has  at  least  in  its 
favor  the  merit  of  plausibility.  If  the  name  is  correctly  spelled  by 
Strachey,  the  word  can  have  no  meaning  except  the  one  that  I 
assigned  to  it,  i.  e.,  *gull  creek.'  There  would  have  been  nothing 
strange  about  such  a  name,  since  we  find  in  our  own  geographical 
nomenclature  the  name  of  this  natatorial  bird,  which  seeks  its  food 
(moUusks  and  fishes)  in  streams  and  lakes  often  far  inland.     The 

1  -tmueu  in  the  animate  transitive  form,  -idmen  in  the  inanimate  transitive,  and  -tdm 
in  the  intransitive. 


242  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

same  name  in  common  was  formerly  (as  at  present)  applied  to  two 
streams  at  some  distance  apart,  which  Smith  calls  the  "  two  rivers 
of  Qiiiyoughcohanocker  Strachey  seems  to  intimate  that  this 
spelling  is  incorrect ;  and  that  is  probably  the  case,  since  no 
meaning  can  be  extracted  from  the  prefix  Quiyoughco,  unless 
we  suppose  that  Smith  used  such  spelling  in  the  belief  that 
the  first  part  of  the  word,  as  he  heard  it,  was  a  corruption  of 
the  root  found  in  the  name  for  a  priest.  This  is  possible,  since  he 
relates  a  story,  a  mixture  of  fact  and  fiction,  to  the  effect  that  the 
Tapehaneks  annually  held  a  sacrifice  of  children  which  was  pre- 
sided over  by  a  quiyoughcosu^  or  priest,  appointed  for  the  purpose. 
Fifteen  children,  between  the  ages  of  10  and  15,  after  having  been 
painted  white,  were  passed  between  two  files  of  men  armed  with 
bastinadoes,  each  child  being  led  by  a  guard  who  protected  it  from 
the  blows  aimed  at  it  by  receiving  them  upon  his  own  naked  body. 
After  this,  some  of  the  children  were  killed  in  a  wild  revelry  of 
the  would-be  bastinadoers  in  which  the  latter  "  tore  down  trees  [!], 
branches  and  boughs  with  such  violence  that  they  rent  the  [children's] 
body.'*  The  cadavers  were  then  thrown  in  a  heap  in  a  valley, 
while  the  survivors  were  kept  in  the  wilderness  nine  months  and 
were  finally  made  priests  and  conjurors.  The  practice  on  which 
this  story  was  based  was  one  that  was  observed  also  by  the  In- 
dians on  the  north  side  of  the  James  (and  also  by  those  of  Mas- 
sachusetts), and  was  a  species  of  "hazing"  to  which  young 
men  were  submitted  in  order  to  prepare  them  for  entrance  into 
public  life.  This  practice,  which  came  to  be  known  to  the  inhabi- 
tants of  Virginia  as  **  huskanawing,"  ^  consisted  in  selecting  a  cer- 
tain number  of  promising  young  men  who  had  reached  the  age  of 
virility,  sending  them  into  the  woods  under  guard,  enclosing  them 
in  a  hut,  withholding  food  from  them,  and  dosing  them  with  wisa- 
kan  (=  *it  is  bitter'),  an  infusion  of  the  roots  of  the  spreading  dog- 
bane (j\pocy7ium  androscemifolimpi),  a  drug  having  emetic  properties 

^  This  word  which  is  now  admitted  into  our  dictionaries  as  a  verb  and  substantive,  is 
from  Powhatan  uskinmvcu,  'he  has  a  new  body'  (from  uski^  *new,*  naw,  *body,*  and 
tUf  *  has  he ' ),  said  of  a  youth  who  had  reached  the  age  of  puberty.  The  same  idea  is 
expressed  in  the  Natick  word  woskitomp^  *man*  (t'/V),  from  woskitu^  *  new-bom,*  and 
'omp^  *  male '  ;  the  idea  of  the  Massachusetts  Indians  having  been  that  alter  a  youth 
(nunkompf  *  agile  male  *)  had  reached  the  age  of  virility  he  had  been  created  anew. 


GERARD]  SOME  VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  243 

of  about  two-thirds  the  strength  of  the  offidnal  ipecac.  The  effect 
of  this  treatment  was  to  make  the  subjects  of  it  delirious  and  to 
cause  them  temporarily  to  forget  everything  that  had  passed  in 
their  life.  Thus,  says  Beverly,  they  unlived  their  former  life  and 
began  as  men  (prepared  to  perform  the  function  of  priest,  cockarouse, 
etc.),  by  forgetting  that  they  had  ever  been  boys. 

Mr  Tooker,  after  deriving  the  name  of  a  priest  from  a  supposed 
word  quiyaughqu,  having  the  imaginary  meaning  of  *  boy,*  -f  the 
adjective  suck,  *  black  *  or  *  dark-colored,*  which,  of  course,  could 
not  be  suffixed  to  the  substantive  which  it  qualifies,  proceeds  to 
say  that  "  the  qiiiyoughqu-osucks,  to  use  the  best  notation,  were  there- 
fore *  the  lesser  priests,*  or  *  black-boyes,*  ^  who  were  taught  or 
chosen  to  be  such ;  hence  Quiyoughqu-ohan-ock,  *  the  place  or  country 
where  the  lesser  priests  or  boys  were  beaten  or  initiated  into  the 
mysteries  of  the  cult  [!],  a  compound  of  quiyoughqu  -f  the  verb 
\sic\  'Ohan,  *  to  beat,'  or  •  to  strike,*  together  with  the  locative  ock, 
*  place  *  or  *  country.*  **  From  this  it  appears  that  the  suffix  -hanock 
in  another  stream-name  does  not,  after  all,  really  mean,  as  we  were 
told,  '  exceeding  *  or  *  surpassing  country,*  but  *  beating  country,' 
and  that  -ock  does  not  stand  for  aki,  'land,'  'country,*  but  is  a  loca- 
tive suffix,  which  would,  in  that  event,  mean  *  at,*  *  in,'  or  *  on.' 
Here  we  have,  indeed,  "speculation**  run  wild.'  In  what  Algon- 
quian  dialect,  I  would  ask,  is  there  any  semi-radical  -Jian^  capable 
of  entering  into  composition  with  the  meaning  of  *  beating  *  ?  In 
what  Algonquian  dialect  is  there  to  be  found  any  word  quiyoughqu, 
or  any  term  resembling  it,  meaning  *  boy '  ? 

As  to  the  meaning  of  the  Powhatan  name  for  a  priest,  variously 


*  Mr  Tooker,  in  a  footnote,  says  that  **  Smith  (p.  373)  on  the  margin  has  :  *  Their 
solemn  Sacrifices  of  Children  which  they  call  Black-boyes.*  This  I  regard  as  a  free  trans- 
lation of  the  word  Quiyoughquosuky  Smith's  word  "black,"  however,  is  merely  a  mis- 
print for  blaek ;  modem  bleak  (Anglo-Saxon  blaecj  biac),  meaning  *  pale,*  *wan,* 
'pallid.*  The  **  boyes  "  were  so  called  by  Smith,  of  course,  because  they  were  painted 
white. 

*  Since  there  were  two  Quiottghcohanockst  there  must,  therefore,  have  been  two 
"beating  places.'*     This  was  certainly  pretty  hard  on  the  Tapehanek  "black  boys." 

'In  answer  to  this  question,  Mr  Tooker,  in  a  footnote,  explains  it  as  **a  verb  [«V] 
that  appears  in  several  Powhatan  names  in  varying  forms,  such  as  ^'Rok-oha-mittj  {>arched 
com  ground  small.'  **  Of  this  word  I  have  given  the  meaning  under  the  name  Chicka- 
hominy. 


'244  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

spelled  quiyoughcosough^  quiyougficosuck,  quiyoughquosicke,  qui- 
oquascake,  I  shall  offer  a  suggestion,  which  may  be  taken  for 
what  it  is  worth.  The  first  vowel  i  of  the  root  doubtless  had  its 
long  English  sound,  and  we  should  therefore  write  it  at ;  the  ough  ^ 
=1  «,  and  this,  in  one  spelling,  is  replaced  by  0 ;  the  characteristic, 
ky  of  the  root  is  accompanied  with  w  or  o.  From  these  data  we 
have  the  root  kwaiukw,  or  kwaiokw,  which  is  possibly  the  Pow- 
hatan form  of  the  Ojibwe  root  gwaiukw  or  gwaiakw  (  =  Prairie 
Cree  kwaiaskw,  =  Wood  Cree  kwaiuskw\  'straight,'  'straight- 
forward,' 'upright,'  'just,'  'true,*  etc.  From  this  root  we  should 
have  the  animate  verbal  adjective  kwaiukosii  or  kwaiokosu,  '  he  is 
straight,' 'just,*  'true,'  'perfect,'  ' without  guile,*  etc.  The  name 
was  applied  also  by  the  Powhatans  to  any  one  of  the  petty  gods 
whom  they  worshipped.  In  Natick  the  root  sampw,  '  straight,'  was 
used  by  Eliot  with  similar  derivative  meanings  :  '  upright,*  '  right,' 
'righteous,'  'just.'  In  Lenape,  also,  the  root  schachachg^  'straight,' 
is  employed  in  the  senses  of  '  upright,'  *  right,'  '  righteous,'  'true,' 
'just,'  'correct,'  etc.  If  my  surmise  in  regard  to  the  meaning  of 
the  root  whence  the  name  of  a  Virginia  priest  was  derived  is  cor- 
rect. Smith's  Quiyoughcolianok  would  mean  '  straight  stream ' ;  but, 
inasmuch  as  neither  of  the  creeks  so  called  is  straight,  the  proba- 
bility is  that  the  name  given  by  Strachey  is  the  correct  one. 

Massawomek,  —  My  intimation  that  this  word  was  a  mispronun- 
ciation by  the  English  settlers  of  MacJiewomik  was  unfortunate, 
since  the  two  names  are  merely  dialectic  forms  of  the  same  term. 

A  picturesque  valley  of  the  Susquehanna,  in  Luzerne  county, 
Pa.,  is  bordered  on  each  side  by  a  broad  plain  or  flat,  about  twenty 
miles  in  length,  which  was  formerly  the  domain  of  several  Lenape 
clans,  by  whom  it  was  called  by  a  name  meaning  '  great  flat '  or 
'  plain,'    which   in   the  guttural    Minsi  dialect   was     ATchewomi} 

1  The  combination  ough  was  an  orthopeic  device  used  by  Smith  and  other  early  Eng- 
lish writers  in  Virginia  to  represent  the  peculiar  pronunciation  of  u  in  Algonquian. 

•  This  word  with  the  addition  of  the  postpositive  preposition,  making  APchnvomink, 
'at  (or  on)  the  great  plain,'  gave  rise,  through  corruption,  to  the  name  Wyoming, 
which  was  rendered  famous  by  Campbell  (1809)  in  his  once  widely  read  poem  entitled 
Gertrude  of  Wyoming  ,  whence  the  application  of  the  name  to  so  many  places  (and  finally 
to  a  state)  in  the  United  States.  The  Iroquois  name  for  this  flat  was  Skahentowaney 
'great  meadow  (or  plain),'  a  term  which  was  applied  also  to  extensive  meadows  in 
other  localities,  and  became  corrupted  to  ''Shenandoah." 


GERARD]  SOME  VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  245 

These  Algonquians  were  conquered  and  "put  in  petticoats"  by  the 
Minquas,  a  powerful  and  warlike  Iroquoian  people,  who  settled 
upon  the  land  of  the  vanquished  and  lived  there  previous  to  and 
at  the  advent  of  the  Europeans.  It  was  certainly  these  belligerent 
Minquas,  and  not  people  of  the  same  linguistic  stock  from  the  Great 
Lakes  (as  Smith  supposed)  that  occasionally  organized  war  parties 
and  paddled  down  the  Susquehanna  into  Chesapeake  bay  in  their 
bark  canoes  (with  which  all  the  Iroquois  were  provided),  and  struck 
terror  into  the  hearts  of  the  natives  of  the  tidewater  region  of  Vir- 
ginia. The  word  Mdsiwcnnik  means  '  people  of  the  great  plain '  ; 
from  nias^  *  great/  wofPti,  *  plain '  or  '  flat/  and  k,  the  characteristic 
of  the  animate  plural  suflix. 

Mr  Tooker  says  he  translates  "it  *  those  who  travel  by  boat/ 
massoW'Omekey  There  could  be  no  such  Algonquian  word  formed 
to  have  that  meaning.  The  Powhatan  word  to  render  the  English 
phrase  *  those  who  travel  by  boat/  would  have  been  meshurhdnkik. 
It  was  nothing  surprising  to  the  Virginians  that  their  enemies  should 
travel  by  boat,  since  that  was  precisely  the  way  in  which  they  them- 
selves traveled  when  they  went  by  water. 

Vttasantasough  =  Utdsantdsu.  —  I  deeply  regret  that  I  made  any 
reference  to  this  word,  since  I  have  never  been  able  to  work  out  its 
meaning.  The  origin  of  the  terminal  -antasu  is  plain  enough  ;  that 
is  simply  an  adjective  suffix  derived  from  the  intransitive  verbal  suf- 
fix -antam,  which,  according  to  the  root  used  with  it,  might  denote 
the  action  of  wearing  clothing,  eating,  accompanying,  etc.  The 
meaning  of  the. root  tas  (Pamptico  tosJi)  is  problematical.  A  root 
used  in  one  dialect  often  dies  out  in  others  and  is  replaced  therein 
by  one  of  a  different  form  having  practically  the  same  meaning. 
No  root  tds  that  would  form  a  verb  with  the  suffix  -anatm  can  now 
be  found  in  any  other  dialect.  Mr  Tooker,  taking  as  his  model  the 
Narragansett  word  cejiantowash  (miswritten  for  ininmitoivash,  imp. 
2d  sing,  of  ininantoweti)  *  speak  thou  Indian  ! '  forms  a  combination 
k' uttass-antowash,  to  which  he  ascribes  the  meaning  of  *  he  speaks  a 
strange  language.'  Such  a  word,  if  I  may  so  call  it,  would  have 
seemed  fully  as  strange  to  the  Powhatans  as  did  the  foreigners  who 
suddenly  appeared  among  them.  In  the  first  place,  there  is  no 
Algonquian  root  ktitUxss,  meaning  *  to  be  strange ' ;    and,  in  the 


246  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

second,  if  the  suflfix  represents  -antozveu  denoting  the  action  of  speak- 
ing in  the  manner  designated  by  the  root,  it  would  have  here,  as  in 
the  Narragansett  word  just  cited,  the  form  of  the  2d  pers.  sing,  of 
the  imperative  mood.  The  meaning  of  the  word  utdsantdsu  will 
never  be  known,  and  it  is  therefore  useless  to  make  frivolous  guesses 
in  regard  to  it. 

Mr  Tooker*s  etymons  of  the  names  for  *'  paint ''  and  "  bark  dish  " 
may  be  disposed  of  in  a  few  words.  The  idea  that  the  first  syllable 
in  the  name  for  paint  is  an  adjective  root  meaning  *  fine,'  *  pretty,* 
*  handsome,*  is  very  absurd,  as  well  as  quite  antiquated.  If  such 
were  the  case,  the  root  vowel,  when  the  word  takes  an  adjective 
prefix  or  enters  into  composition,  would  be  preserved  ;  but,  instead 
of  this,  the  first  vowel  of  the  word  disappears  under  such  circum- 
stances, thus  showing  that  it  is  merely  expletive.  Again,  the  cog- 
nate Lenape  names,  in  addition  to  wuldman,  are  dldmdn  and  wdld- 
man,  and  the  Prairie  Cree  name  is  wiyamdn  —  words  in  which^  in 
Lenape,  neither  dl  nor  wdl,  and,  in  Cree,  neither  wi  nor  wiy  means 
'fine,'  'pretty,'  'handsome.'  Finally,  the  comparative  study  and 
analysis  of  the  word  which  I  presented  in  my  former  article, 
and  in  which  I  stripped  it  of  its  expletive  prefix  and  its  forma- 
tive and  laid  bare  its  root,  gives  all  that  we  can  ever  expect  to  know 
in  regard  to  a  term  the  actual  meaning  of  which,  like  that  of  the 
name  of  the  kettle,  spoon,  bark  dish,  and  some  other  primitive  uten- 
sils, has  long  been  lost  to  the  Indians  themselves. 

The  fact  that  the  names  for  a  bark  dish  are,  as  I  have  already 
fully  explained  (Amer,  Anthropologist ,  vi,  p.  328,  f  n.),  derived 
from  a  verb  would  suffice  to  show  to  any  one  having  even  but  a 
slight  acquaintance  with  Algonquian  grammar  that  -dgdn  is  the 
formative  of  a  verbal  noun,  and  not  a  generic  substantival  suffix 
which  can  be  used  to  form  a  word  in  combination  with  an  adjective 
or  with  a  substantive  used  attributively.  Verbs  in  -dkeu  or  -dgcii, 
and,  consequently,  substantives  in  -dgdn  can  be  formed  only  from 
intransitive  verbs  or  animate  adjectives,  and  never  directly  from  a 
root.  The  Algonquian  root  meaning  '  to  be  concave  '  or  *  hollow  ' 
is  not,  as  Mr  Tooker  seems  to  imagine,  wur^  wu7i,  ol,  on,  etc.,  but : 
Caniba  wctr,  Penobscot  and  Lenape  wdl,  Natick  zvbn  (wdti), 
Ojibwe  wdn,  Prairie  Cree  wdy.  Wood  Cree  wdth,  etc.     From  this 


GERARD]  SOME   VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  247 

root  is  formed  the  Caniba  name  for  a  plate,  ivd^rade,  meaning  *  it  is 
concave.'  In  the  same  dialect,  the  name  for  a  bark  dish  is  uroH'gdn, 
a  word  which,  like  all  its  cognates,  is  derived  from  an  intransitive 
verb  formed  from  a  root  of  which  the  meaning  is  lost. 

**From  the  same  element*'  [/.  ^.,  the  supposed  root  found  in 
the  name  for  a  bark  dish] ,  says  Mr  Tooker,  is  derived  the  "  Narra- 
gansett  tvunnauanounuck,  a  *  shallop,'  .  .  .  from  wunnau,  *  a  shallow 
vessel,'  and  -anounau,  *to  carry,'  +  -uk^  'that  which.'  " 

In  this  Narragansett  word,  the  generic  substantival  suffix 
'Ounuck  (=  unuk^  written  also  -onuk,  =  Natick  onag-,  =  Caniba 
'Urdk,  =  Lenape  -oldk,  =  Ojibwe  -ondg,  =  Cree  -otdk)  means  *  boat ' 
or  *  canoe.*  The  signification  of  the  substantive  prefix  wunnauan^ 
used  attributively,  has  not  been^  ascertained  ;  but  what  may  be 
stated  as  absolutely  certain  is  that  wunnau  does  not  mean  '  hollow 
(wan)  vessel,*  and  that  anounau  does  not  mean  *  to  carry.' 

Paqwantewun  =»  pdkwa^tehun,  —  In  this  word  Mr  Tooker  sees 
lurking  the  Narragansett  name  for  an  *  apron,*  viz.,  autawhun, 
**  Hence,**  he  says,  '* paqwantewun  =  Narr.  pahk-autawhun,  '  a  clean 
apron'  "  !  To  use  Mr  Tooker's  language,  the  Narragansett  word 
shows  simply  one  of  those  accidental  similarities  that  sometimes 
occur  in  words  belonging  to  remote  dialects,  **for  there  is  no 
etymological  connection  between  the  two  names," — none  whatever. 
The  root  and  grammatical  structure  of  the  words  differ  in  Mo,  Mr 
Tooker's  grammatical  explanation  of  the  structure  of  the  Narragan- 
sett name  for  "apron,**  I  am  sorry  to  say,  I  cannot  grasp:  **The 
particle  un  is  the  nominative  of  the  impersonal  verb,  when  the  object 
for  which  it  stands  is  expressed  by  the  verb,  i.  e.,  antawhiin^  *it 
hides.*  '* 

Bagivanchybasson  (  =  pdkwa^'tshlpisun),  says  Mr  Tooker,  is  the 
same  name  as  Natick  puttukwobbesin  (  =  putukwdbistin\  =  Abnaki 
p^Ugwdbisun^  "from  pnttuckqiii-au ,  *  it  girdles,*  and  mobee,  *hip*  '*  ! 
It  would  certainly  be  difficult  (except,  perhaps,  to  a  myope)  to  see 
any  resemblance  between  the  roots  pdkw  and  putukiv  or  p^t^gw^ 
the  first  meaning  to  *  wind  about  *  or  *  be  wound  about,*  and  the 
second  *  to  be  round.*  The  meaning  of  the  Natick  and  Abnaki 
words  above  cited  is  simply  '  round  tie  *  or  *  band  *  (-bisun).  The 
semi-radical  *mobee,  *  hip,*  does  not  enter  into  the  composition  of 

AM.  ANTH.y  N.  S.,  7-I7 


248  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

the  word.  The  bb  in  the  Natick  word  simply  represents  a  gemina- 
tion of  the  consonant  b  belonging  to  the  suffix.  Girdles  are  worn 
around  the  waist,  not  around  the  hips.  The  Nipissings  call  the 
waist  by  the  same  name  as  the  sash  or  girdle  that  encircles  it 

Finally,  Mr  Tooker  directs  his  attention  to  the  word  wintuc, 
wintuccum  (=  wlntuk,  wlntukuw),  ghoul,  regarding  which  he  posi- 
tively asserts  that  **  neither  Strachey  nor  the  copyist  made  a  mis- 
take, for  this  word  means  a  '  fool,'  and  not  a  *  ghoul.*  **  Was  it  no 
mistake  of  a  copyist,  then,  that  in  Strachey's  vocabulary  the  pro- 
nomial  adjective  cuttak^  *  another,*  is  given  as  the  name  for  an  *  otter,' 
that  pussequembun  {^  pusikivibun\  *  he  rose,'  is  given  as  the  name 
for  a  *  rose,*  that  meisutterask,  a  *  cove,'  is  given  as  the  name  for  an 

*  owl '  ?     In  support  of  his  assertion  that  the  Virginia  word  means 

*  fool,'  Mr  Tooker  offers  *' wintuccum  =  Mass.  ween-tuhkekufiy  *  he  is 
head-heavy,'  *  he  is  a  fool.'  "  - 

Inasmuch  as  the  Natick  word  ween  is  the  name  for  *  marrow,' 
not  *  head,'  and  as  tuhkekwun  is  a  verbal  adjective  meaning  '  it  is 
heavy,*  Mr  Tooker*s  **  cognate  "  would  be  written  in  two  separate 
words,  ween  tuhkekwun^  and  assert  that  *  marrow  is  heavy.'  As 
another  "  cognate,"  he  gives  Lenape  wil-tak^  *  head-heavy,'  *  a 
fool,'  *  a  sot,'  *  a  drunkard ' ;  a  combination  entirely  original  with 
him,  in  which  wil  means  *  head,'  and  tak  is  simply  a  product  of  the 
imagination,  since  there  is  no  Lenape  adjective  root  tak  ^  meaning 
'  heavy.'  A  compound  consisting  of  a  substantive  connected  by  a 
hyphen  with  a  mere  root,  and  a  suppositional  root  at  that,  is  cer- 
tainly a  philological  curiosity. 

In  closing  this  article,  I  cannot  refrain  from  warmly  commend- 
ing >Ir  Tooker  for  the  able,  conscientious,  and  fearless  manner  in 
which  he  performed  the  task  (doubtless  painful  and  onerous)  of 
pointing  out  and  correcting  the  mistakes  which  he  found  skulking 
**in  nearly  every  paragraph"  of  my  former  communication.  In 
dragging  forth  some  of  these  mistakes  to  the  light  and  submitting 

»Thc  Lenape  name  for  *'lead,"  given  in  Brinton  and  Anthony's  Lenape- English 
Dictionary  2iS  takachsuny  and  quoted  in  the  Natick  Dictionary  (p.  163)  and  there  in- 
terpreted *  heavy  stone,'  is  miswritten  for  wtakachsun^  *soft  stone'  (i.  e.,  metal).  The 
Natick  root  tA'kihtv^  =  Abnaki  tfkikw  (not  on  record  in  lenape),  meaning  *to  be 
heavy,'  is  dissyllabic. 


GERARD]  SOME    VIRGINIA  INDIAN  WORDS  249 

them  to  so  intelligent  an  examination,  I  think  he  has  done  but 
right ;  for  I  hold  it  to  be  the  bounden  duty  of  every  person  who 
has  the  interest  of  the  reading  public  sincerely  at  heart,  and  who 
feels  himself  sufficiently  well  equipped  to  assume  the  functions  of 
critic,  promptly  to  call  attention  to  and  correct  any  glaring  errors 
that  he  may  observe  in  print,  to  the  end  that  the  evils  resulting  from 
the  dissemination  of  false  teachings  may,  in  a  measure  at  least,  be 
attenuated. 


TRADITIONS   OF   PRECOLUMBIAN   LANDINGS   ON 
THE  WESTERN  COAST  OF  SOUTH  AMERICA 

By  ADOLPH  F.  BANDELIER 

The  origin  of  the  people  inhabiting  the  New  World  was  one  of 
the  first  problems  that  busied  European  minds  as  soon  as  it  became 
realized  that  America  was  an  independent  continent.  How  could 
man  have  reached  this  land,  that  was  so  widely  separated  from  the 
rest  of  the  known  world?  In  reality  this  question  was  not  a  new 
one,  for  it  had  been  asked  in  regard  to  every  distant  island  found 
inhabited  by  animals  and  plants  as  well  as  by  man.  Solutions 
had  been  proposed  long  prior  to  the  fifteenth  century  —  the- 
ories in  harmony  with  the  state  of  knowledge  and  with  the  re- 
ligious fervor  of  the  period.  Among  others,  Saint  Augustine,  in 
the  fifth  century,  speculated  on  the  problem  of  how  quadrupeds, 
such  as  beasts  of  prey,  that  are  of  no  use  to  man,  came  to  live  on 
distant  isles  (i).*  I  wish  to  lay  stress  on  these  precolumbian 
speculations,  for  when  the  origin  of  the  American  Indian  became 
the  subject  of  investigation,  the  autochthonous  theory  was  as  freely 
discussed  as  any  other.  But  the  general  trend  of  opinion  in  the 
sixteenth  centur>'  was  in  favor  of  the  belief  that  the  ''aborigines" 
of  America  were  not  in  reality  aboriginal,  but  that  at  some  more  or 
less  remote  period  they  had  migrated  from  other  sections  of  the 
globe.  Many  were  the  theories  proposed  in  regard  to  the  regions 
whence  these  migrations  might  have  come  ;  but  this  is  not  the  place 
to  discuss  their  relative  merits. 

The  belief  in  an  extra- American  origin  of  the  Indians  has  direct 
bearing  on  the  value  of  Indian  traditions,  as  recorded  by  Europeans 
who  were  under  the  influence  of  that  conjecture,  for  it  naturally  led 
Spanish  investigators,  for  example,  to  interpret  any  tale  that  might 
be  construed  in  favor  of  the  assumption  that  man  came  to  America 
from  the  outside  world.     I  am  by  no  means  favoring  the  hypoth- 

*  See  the  notes  at  the  close  of  the  article. 

250 


BANDELIER]       TRADITIONS  OF  PRECOLUMBIAN  LANDINGS  25  I 

esis  of  an  independent  creation  or  evolution  of  the  Indian  on 
this  continent.  All  I  desire  to  call  attention  to  is  the  danger  of 
early  Indian  lore  having  been  colored,  by  those  who  gathered  it, 
so  as  to  support  a  favorite  theory.  Such  coloring  is  a  serious  ob- 
stacle to  the  critical  use  of  aboriginal  American  lore  supposed  to 
embody  historical  information. 

Among  Indian  myths  that  appear  to  touch  on  an  extra-Amer- 
ican descent  of  the  natives  in  the  western  parts  of  South  America, 
we  must  discriminate  between  (i)  allusions  to  the  appearance  of 
strange  individuals  or  groups  of  individuals,  long  before  the  epoch 
of  Columbus  but  while  the  land  was  already  peopled  ;  (2)  tales  men- 
tioning a  primitive  settlement  of  parts  of  South  America  from  other 
parts  of  the  globe ;  and  (3)  stories  of  landings  on  the  western  coast 
of  the  southern  continent. 

The  tale  of  Tonapa  (sometimes  identified  with  Viracocha),  in 
the  interior  of  Peru  and  Bolivia,  has  already  been  discussed  by  me, 
so  far  as  the  scanty  material  and  its  nature  permitted  (2).  The 
Tonapa  story,  in  its  later  version  by  Calancha,  begins  in  Brazil. 
It  tells  of  the  wanderings  of  two  white  men,  at  a  time  quite  remote, 
but  still  after  the  beginning  of  our  era.  These  white  travelers  are 
reputed  to  have  landed  on  the  Brazilian  shore,  whence  they  pushed 
inland,  preaching  to  and  teaching  the  natives  after  the  manner  of 
Christian  apostles  or  missionaries.  They  are  accredited  with  ac- 
complishing the  portentous  journey  through  southern  Brazil,  Para- 
guay, and  northern  Argentina  into  western  Bolivia,  where,  near  the 
shores  of  Lake  Titicaca,  one  of  them  suffered  death  at  the  hands  of 
the  natives,  while  the  other  pursued  his  way  to  the  Pacific  and  there 
disappeared.  This  version,  however,  dates  from  the  middle  of  the 
seventeenth  century  (3),  and  extends  the  scope  of  the  original 
Tonapa  or  Viracocha  lore  obtained  in  southern  Peru  and  in  Bolivia. 
It  bears  the  stamp  not  merely  of  confirmation,  but  of  explanation 
and  adaptation  to  Christian  legends  about  apostolic  labors  in  remote 
corners  of  the  earth.  The  early,  hence  more  authentic,  versions  of 
the  Tonapa  and  Viracocha  story,  heard  not  later  than  sixteen  years 
after  the  arrival  of  Pizarro,  and  probably  even  within  a  decade  of 
that  event,  either  represent  the  origin  of  that  mysterious  individ- 
ual from   Lake  Titicaca  (not  necessarily  from  the  island  of  that 


252  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

name)  or  make  him  appear  on  the  Bolivian  plateau  from  the  south 
and  to  direct  his  steps  toward  the  north  where,  on  the  shores 
of  Ecuador,  he  disappears,  together  with  his  companions,  on  the 
waters  of  the  ocean.  In  the  heart  of  Peru  a  similar  tradition  was 
found  among  the  Indians  at  an  early  date,  and  while  these  tales 
must  be  accepted  cum  grano  salis,  they  may  have  had  their  nucleus 
in  original  recollections  that  already  had  become  veiled  and  dis- 
torted prior  to  the  sixteenth  century. 

The  traditions  of  central  western  Peru  differ  partly  from  the 
tales  of  Tonapa-Viracocha  in  that  they  also  mention  a  settlement  of 
strangers.  The  report  of  the  Augustines  on  their  investigations 
among  the  Indians  of  Huamachuco  between  1552  and  1561,  states 
that  most  of  the  settlers  perished  and  that  the  few  survivors  were 
driven  out  of  the  country.  But  this  part  of  the  story  appears  to 
be  distinct  from  the  tale  of  white  "teachers"  of  the  Tonapa  legend, 
and  to  refer  to  another  set  of  individuals  (4).  The  term  *'  culture- 
heroes"  has  been  introduced  into  American  ethnology  for  such 
personages.  In  this  case  their  labors  would  have  left  few,  if  any, 
cultural  traces. 

Almost  parallel  with  the  Tonapa  and  Viracocha  lore  is  the  myth 
of  Bochica  or  Nemquetheba  (Nemtherequeteba),  also  called  Zuhe, 
among  the  Muysca  or  Chibcha  Indians  of  Colombia.  The  four 
names  apply,  according  to  Piedrahita,  to  one  individual.  Fray 
Pedro  Simon,  who  wrote  somewhat  earlier,  discriminates  between 
Bochica  and  Nemtherequeteba.  Piedrahita  asserts  that,  according 
to  Chibcha  tradition,  Bochica  "came"  to  the  plateau  of  Bogota  — 
whence,  he  does  not  state.  He  describes  him  as  with  a  long  beard 
and  wearing  long  garments,  as  having  walked  with  bare  feet  and 
gone  about  preaching  and  teaching  the  Indians  a  better  mode  of 
life.  At  Sogamoso,  in  the  Colombian  highlands,  Bochica  lived  two 
thousand  years,  and  died  there  after  performing  many  miracles, 
among  which  the  opening  of  the  cleft  at  Tequendama  is  most  con- 
spicuous. There  is  a  certain  analogy  between  this  personage  and 
Tonapa  or  Viracocha.  In  Peru,  as  is  well  known,  the  Indians  called 
and  still  call  the  whites  Vtracochas,  Piedrahita  asserts  that  the  sur- 
name Zuhe,  given  to  Bochica,  was  used  by  the  Chibcha  to  desig- 
nate the  first  Europeans  they  saw  (6). 


254  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Santa  Elena  a  landing  of  **  giants/'  What  Oliva  says  of  the  fate  of 
these  giants  appears  to  have  been  taken  almost  literally  from  Cieza 
and  Zarate.  To  this  I  shall  refer  later.  After  the  reputed  destruc- 
tion of  the  intruders  by  fire  from  heaven,  the  settlers  on  the  coast 
continued  to  extend  their  excursions  with  more  or  less  success : 
some  went  in  the  direction  of  Chile  and  the  straits  of  Magellan,  and 
were  not  heard  of  again ;  others  settled  at  various  points  on  the 
Peruvian  shore ;  still  others  penetrated  inland  and  reached  Lake 
Titicaca  and  the  Cuzco  region.  It  is  noteworthy  that  these  reputed 
settlers  from  the  coast  found  the  interior  already  inhabited  and  the 
shrine  on  Titicaca  island  in  full  operation  (ii). 

Assuming,  for  the  present,  that  Oliva  reported  primitive,  hence 
genuine,  Indian  lore,  the  following  appear  to  be  the  essential  points 
of  his  tales : 

(i)  The  earliest  landing  in  Venezuela,  therefore  in  northeastern 
South  America. 

(2)  A  gradual  spread  over  the  northern  sections  to  the  west- 
ward as  far  as  the  coast  of  Ecuador. 

(3)  Coast  voyages  thence  to  the  south  as  far  as  the  southern 
extremity  of  the  continent. 

(4)  After  the  settlement  on  the  western  coast  had  been  effected 
and  some  of  these  voyages  were  in  progress,  there  took  place  a 
landing,  from  parts  unknown,  of  strange  people  who  were  destroyed 
by  some  cataclysm  and  left  no  impression  beyond  some  remains  and 
recollections  of  their  appearance. 

(5)  A  gradual  spread  from  the  coast  to  the  eastward  into  sec- 
tions that  were  already  peopled. 

The  first  part  of  this  story  recalls  Colombiaji  traditions,  while 
the  landing  of  the  so-called  giants  is  a  local  tale  heard  by  the  Span- 
iards on  the  shores  of  Ecuador  at  a  very  early  day.  The  coast 
voyages  also,  as  I  shall  show,  were  mentioned  by  Spanish  sources 
half  a  century  prior  to  Oliva's  time. 

Oliva  acknowledges  another  source  of  information  —  "original 
papers  "  given  to  him  by  a  Dr  Bartolome  Cervantes,  of  Charcas, 
Bolivia  (12).  Under  any  circumstance  all  his  knowledge  is  derived 
at  second  hand.  It  bears  the  stamp  of  compilation  from  various 
sides,  as  well  as  the  impress  of  adaptation  to  the  favorite  belief  in 


BANDELIER]       TRADITIONS  OF  PRECOL  UAIBIAN  LANDINGS  255 

the  peopling  of  America  from  the  old  world.  Parts  of  his  material, 
so  far  as  based  on  local  tales,  may  contain  a  nucleus  of  primitive 
Indian  recollection,  but  it  is  manifestly  woven  into  a  general  story 
highly  colored  by  European  ideas. 

Among  Indian  lore  collected  soon  after  the  conquest,  and  there- 
fore presumably  genuine,  there  are  traces  of  the  drifting  of  tribes 
into  the  interior  of  Peru  from  the  western  coast.  On  this  point 
Cieza  states : 

**They  also  relate  what  I  have  written  in  my  first  part,  that  on  the 
Island  of  Titicaca,  in  former  centuries,  there  were  white  men,  bearded 
like  ourselves,  and  that,  sallying  from  the  valley  of  Coquimbo,  a  captain 
whose  name  was  Cari,  he  came  to  where  now  is  Chucuito,  whence,  after 
making  a  few  more  settlements,  he  passed  with  his  people  over  to  the 
island  and  made  such  war  on  the  people  of  which  I  speak  that  he  killed 
all  of  them."  (13) 

If  the  word  **  Coquimbo  "  is  correctly  rendered  from  the  origi- 
nal text,  and  not  one  of  the  clerical  mistakes  that  so  frequently  crept 
into  copies  of  old  manuscripts,  then  Cari  and  his  men  came  from 
the  coast  of  northern  Chile.  But,  as  in  the  case  of  those  who,  ac- 
cording to  Oliva,  would  have  reached  Lake  Titicaca  from  the  Peru- 
vian coast,  they  found  the  shores  and  islands  of  that  lake  already 
inhabited.  Concerning  the  white  men  exterminated  by  Cari,  Cieza 
fails  to  state  whence  they  came,  but  he  assures  us  that  he  heard  the 
tale  from  an  Indian  who  may  have  been  well  versed  in  ancient  lore. 

Montesinos,  a  contemporary  of  Simon,  Oliva,  Calancha,  and 
Piedrahita,  treats  of  the  peopling  of  America  in  a  general  way,  mak- 
ing the  earliest  settlers  appear  from  every  quarter  of  the  globe, 
hence  also  from  the  South  sea.     In  his  own  words  : 

*  *  At  that  time,  which  as  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  ascertain  was  six 
hundred  years  after  the  deluge,  all  these  provinces  filled  up  with  people. 
Many  people  came  from  the  direction  of  Chile,  others  by  the  Andes, 
others  by  the  mainland  and  the  South  sea,  so  that  its  coasts  became  settled 
from  the  island  of  Santa  Elena  and  Puerto  Viejo  to  Chile ;  this  can  be 
gathered  from  the  poetry  and  ancient  songs  of  the  Indians,*'  etc.  (14) 

Salcamayhua,  an  Indian  writer  of  the  same  period,  bases,  as  he 
claims,  on  original  lore  preserved  by  the  Indians  of  '*  Orcasuyo, 
between  Canas  and  Canchis  of  Collasuyo,"  the  traditions  which  he 
says  he  heard  from  his  father  and  other  old  men.     He  relates : 


256  AMERICAN  ANTHR  OPOL  O  GIST  [n.  s. ,  7,  1 905 

*'  They  say  that,  in  the  time  of  Purunpachay  all  the  nations  of  Tahuan- 
tinsuyo  came  from  the  direction  of  above  Potossi  in  three  or  four  armies 
ready  for  war,  and  so  they  came  settling,  occupying  the  places,  every  band 
remaining  on  unoccupied  lands."  (15) 

This  hints  at  a  movement  of  tribes  from  south  to  north,  in  upper 
Peru  and  Bolivia.  How  far  the  tales  are  genuine,  that  is,  wholly  pre- 
columbian,  is  not  yet  easy  to  ascertain.  Salcamayhua  makes  most 
fervent  protestations  of  Christianity,  so  fervent,  indeed,  that  there 
arises  a  suspicion  of  the  infiltration  of  many  European  elements  in 
his  version  of  native  lore.  It  is  particularly  marked  in  what  he  re- 
lates of  the  person,  travels,  and  deeds  of  Tonapa  (16).  And  he 
merely  mentions  some  migrations  to  the  interior  of  the  continent, 
without  stating  whence  the  settlers  originally  came. 

Pedro  de  Cieza  remarks  in  a  general  way  :  "  In  Peru  the  Indians 
speak  of  nothing  else  than  that  the  ones  came  from  one  part  [direc- 
tion] and  the  others  from  another."  (17) 

Similar  to  the  stories  preserved  by  the  Augustine  missionaries, 
in  the  sixteenth  century,  are  tales  recorded  by  Miguel  Cabello  Bal- 
boa in  his  "  Antarctic  Miscellany  "  concluded  in  1 586.  But  he  also 
furnishes  a  long  story  to  the  effect  that  South  America,  or  at  least 
the  coast  of  Chile,  was  peopled  originally  by  pirates  from  the  East 
Indies.  To  Balboa  I  shall  return  later,  having  yet  to  refer  to  some 
traditions  found  in  the  interior  of  Peru,  likewise  in  the  second  half 
of  the  sixteenth  century  and  recorded  in  the  year  that  Balboa  finished 
his  work,  hence  they  are  either  a  coincidence  or  Balboa  obtained 
them  from  the  same  source  or  was  told  of  them  by  the  authorities 
of  Guamanga,  who  wrote  the  report  on  the  "  Repartimiento  de  los 
Rucanas  Antamarcas,'*  dated  January  27,  1586.  This  report  con- 
tains the  following  statement : 

''The  old  Indians  say  that  they  have  notice  from  their  forefathers, 
by  hearsay,  that  in  very  remote  times,  before  the  Incas  ruled  them,  there 
came  to  this  country  people  whom  they  called  Viracochas,  not  many  of 
them ;  and  that  the  Indians  followed  them,  listening  to  their  speech,  and 
now  the  Indians  say  they  were  Saints.  *  * 

I  call  attention  to  the  last  phrase — that  now  the  Indians  call 
these  people  "  Saints."  (18) 

Returning  to  Miguel  Cabello  Balboa,  it  is  noted,  as  before  stated. 


k 


BANDELIER ]       TRADITIONS  OF  PRECOL UMBIAN  LANDINGS  2 $7 

that  he  attributes  the  settlement  of  southern  Chile  to  pirates  from 
the  East  Indies,  whom  he  calls  Nayres,  He  traces  the  career  of 
these  people  over  nearly  the  whole  eastern  world,  making  a  part  of 
them  finally  land  near  the  southern  extremity  of  America.  Accord- 
ing to  Balboa  they  were  **  the  origin  and  trunk  of  the  Indians  of 
Chile,  from  whom  also  descend  the  Chiriguanaes,  or  (rather)  Chili- 
ganaes.  By  these  were  made  those  strange  fortifications  that  in 
Ayavira  and  Tiaguanaco  (and  in  other  parts  of  this  section  of  the 
world)  are  seen,'*  etc.  After  the  "  Nayres  '*  had  **  conquered  the 
austral  regions,  they  penetrated  inland  and  were  never  afterward 
heard  from.  Their  intrusion  in  these  our  Indies  is  conjecture,  for 
the  reason  that  old  Indians  state  they  have  it  from  ancient  traditions 
of  their  forefathers,  who  told  them  that  from  that  part  of  the  world 
there  came  these  pestiferous  tyrants  [the  Nayres],  and  those  of 
Chile  say  the  same,  pointing  out  that  they  came  from  this  side  of 
the  straits  which  we  call  of  Magellan.'*  (19) 

While  the  eagerness  displayed  by  Balboa  to  defend  a  favorite 
theory  renders  his  statements  liable  to  suspicion,  it  is  worthy  of 
investigation  whether  the  tales  are  genuine  or  not,  but  I  have  not 
at  my  command  the  material  necessary.  While  in  Peru  Balboa 
joined  the  order  of  the  Jesuits  and  was  a  contemporary  of  Acosta 
and  of  the  Dominican  Fray  Gregorio  Garcia  (20).  Neither  of  these, 
in  their  classical  works  on  America,  makes  any  mention  of  his  story, 
a  lack  manifestly  due  to  their  being  unacquainted  with  the  "  Miscel- 
lany," only  a  part  of  which,  to  this  time,  has  appeared  in  print  as  a 
French  translation  by  Henri  Temaux-Compans. 

But  Cabello  Balboa  does  not  confine  himself  to  ancient  lore  of 
a  general  character  ;  he  also  has  preserved  what  bears  every  mark 
of  being  a  genuine  local  tradition  of  Indians  from  the  northern  Peru- 
vian coast.  According  to  him,  the  aborigines  of  the  villages  of 
Motupe  and  Lambayeque  said  that  "  in  times  very  remote,  so  remote 
that  they  cannot  count  them,  there  came  from  the  upper  parts  of 
this  Piru,  with  a  great  fleet  of  rafts,  a  mighty  warrior,  of  great  valor 
and  many  qualities,  called  Naymlap,  and  he  had  with  him  a  number 
of  concubines,  the  principal  of  whom  they  say  was  called  Cetemi ; 
and  with  him  and  in  his  company  he  brought  many  followers  whom 
he  led  as  captain  and  leader.     This  chief  Naymlap,  with  his  entire 


2S8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

retinue,  landed  and  disembarked  at  the  mouth  of  a  river  (now  called 
Faquisllanga,  where  they  abandoned  their  rafts  and  penetrated 
inland."  (21) 

This  indicates  a  coastwise  expedition,  possibly  from  some  point 
on  the  shores  of  Ecuador,  as  far  as  the  vicinity  of  Chiclayo  and 
Lambayeque.  It  recalls  the  coast  voyages  told  of  by  Oliva,  and 
seems  to  confirm  them.  There  is  no  apparent  connection,  however, 
between  the  sources  of  Balboa  (who  alludes  to  direct  Indian  informa- 
tion from  tradition)  and  those  mentioned  by  Oliva ;  nor  is  it  said 
that  the  people  led  by  Naymlap  were  of  extra- American  issue. 

When  Pizarro  first  visited  the  coast  of  Ecuador  and  the  north- 
western extremity  of  Peru,  he  sent  the  pilot  Bartolome  Ruiz  with 
one  of  his  frail  craft  to  explore  the  southern  coast  for  two  months. 
Ruiz  coasted  as  far  as  southern  Ecuador  and  perhaps  to  the  latitude 
of  the  Peruvian  boundary,  although  it  is  not  possible  to  determine 
the  southern  limit  accurately.  While  on  this  voyage  he  captured  a 
craft,  carrying  about  twenty  men,  which  he  describes  as  follows : 

**  This  vessel  which  I  say  he  took,  appeared  to  be  of  as  many  as  thirty 
tons  ;  it  was  made  after  the  manner  and  [with]  a  keel  of  canes  as  thick 
as  posts,  bound  together  by  ropes  of  a  kind  they  call  eneguen  [henequen] , 
which  is  like  flax,  and  the  upper  parts  [bulwarks]  of  other  canes  more 
slender,  bound  with  the  same  ropes,  where  they  placed  their  persons  and 
the  merchandize  together,  as  the  hold  was  with  water.  It  had  its  masts 
and  spars  of  very  handsome  wood  and  sails  of  cotton  of  the  same  descrip- 
tion, like  those  of  our  ships ;  and  very  good  fishing  tools  of  the  same 
eneguen  mentioned  that  is  like  flax,  and  for  anchors  stones  after  the  man- 
ner of  barbers*  grinding-stones. ' '  (22) 

After  the  return  of  Ruiz,  Pizarro  set  out  himself,  and  at  Tacamez 
[Atacames]  was  met  by  fourteen  large  craft  manned  by  Indians. 
"Balsas"  (rafts)  are  frequently  mentioned  (23).  A  complete  de- 
scription of  one  of  these  large  vessels  is  given  by  Father  Bemabe 
Cobo.  Although  of  the  first  half  of  the  seventeenth  century,  hence 
a  full  century  after  the  conquest,  it  agrees  well  with  the  indications 
previously  quoted. 

**The  largest  balsas  used  by  the  Peruvian  Indians  that  live  close  to 
forests,  like  those  of  the  ports  of  Payta  [in  Peru] ,  Manta,  and  Guayaquil 
[in  Ecuador] ,  are  composed  of  seven,  nine,  or  more  timbers  of  paio  de 


BANDEUER]       TRADITIONS  OF  PRECOLUMBIAN  LANDINGS  259 

balsa^  in  this  manner :  that  they  tie  them  one  to  the  other  lengthwise 
with  bejucos  [lianas  or  creepers]  or  ropes,  over  others  crosswise.  The 
one  in  the  middle  is  longer  at  the  prow  than  the  others,  which  become 
smaller  in  proportion  as  they  recede  on  the  sides ;  the  middle  one  is  long- 
est at  the  prow,  so  that  at  the  prow  they  are  like  the  fingers  of  an  extended 
hand,  whereas  at  the  stern  they  are  equal.  On  these  they  build  a  plat- 
form of  boards  so  that  the  people  and  cloth  that  go  in  it  may  not  get  wet 
from  the  water  entering  through  the  joints  of  the  timbers.  They  navigate 
on  the  sea  with  sail  and  oars,  and  some  are  so  large  as  easily  to  accomo- 
date fifty  men.'*  (24) 

An  earlier  description  is  that  by  the  Licentiate  Salazar  de  Villa- 
sante,  dating  from  about  1 574.  It  refers  only  to  the  balsas  used  on 
the  Rio  Guayas  without  sails,  but  with  as  many  as  seven  oars  on 
each  side,  or  fourteen  oarsmen  in  all  (25). 

Oviedo  never  visited  Peru,  but  gathered  much  information  from 
Spaniards  who  had  been  with  Pizarro  at  the  beginning  of  the  con- 
quest. He  speaks  of  the  large  rafts  used  by  the  Indians  of  the 
southern  coast  of  Ecuador,  saying  that  they  carried  on  the  sea  as 
many  as  three  horses.  His  description  agrees  very  well  with  the 
preceding,  mentioning  sails  and  the  oarsmen  on  the  sides.  South 
of  Payta  the  craft,  according  to  him,  were  made  of  reeds  (26). 

With  such  craft  the  short  distance  separating  the  mainland  from 
the  island  of  Puna,  for  instance,  could  .easily  be  traversed.  Long 
voyages  along  the  coast  were  also  possible.  Of  attempts  to  venture 
far  into  the  open  sea,  I  find  as  yet  no  traces. 

The  Jesuit  Joseph  de  Acosta  mentions  canoes  of  seal -skin  in  which 
the  Indians  from  lea  and  Arica  (the  latter  now  pertaining  to  northern 
Chile)  made  long  voyages  **  to  some  islands  far  away  in  the  west," 
and  he  adds  :  "  Hence  there  is  no  lack  of  indications  that  the  South 
sea  was  navigated  before  the  Spaniards  [came]."  (27)  The  islands 
visited  by  the  Indians  of  lea  may  have  been  the  Chincha  isles,  to 
which  the  journey  can  be  made  from  the  port  of  Pisco  in  a  compar- 
atively short  time.  That  these  guano  deposits  were  frequently 
touched  by  Indians  in  precolumbian  times  is  well  established.  The 
islands  that  were  reached  from  Arica  are  a  matter  of  conjecture,  but 
I  should  be  quite  loath  to  accept  the  vague  statement  of  Acosta 
as  a  basis  for  assuming  that  the  tales  apply  to  voyages  as  far  as 
Easter  island  or  other  distant  Pacific  groups.     Distance  is  very 


26o  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

elastic  in  the  mind  of  the  Indian,  and  as  no  direction  is  given  the 
trips  may  as  well  have  been  along  the  coast  as  to  the  west  Besides, 
the  seal-skin  craft  mentioned  could  hardly  have  withstood  wind  and 
wave  for  many  days  beyond  reach  of  succor.  Cobo  describes  these 
craft  as  follows : 

**  They  make  them  of  two  skins  of  seals,  filled  with  air,  which  they 
tie  together  like  the  two  fagots  of  which  are  made  those  of  grass.  Only 
one  Indian  goes  in  each,  and  he  goes  fishing  in  the  sea  as  far  from  shore 
as  in  any  of  the  others.  But  as  these  rafts  are  wont  to  collapse  in  the 
water,  in  order  to  prevent  their  sinking  each  Indian  carries  a  hollow  reed, 
and  out  on  the  sea  he  from  time  to  time  unties  and  blows  them  up  again, 
like  air-bags.  They  are  as  light  and  swift  in  the  water  as  the  substance 
with  which  they  are  filled,  which  is  air.  No  sails  are  used,  as  little  as 
with  those  of  reeds ;  only  oars,  as  in  the  latter.*'  (28) 

The  only  traditional  record  of  a  landing  on  the  western  coast  of 
South  America  is  that  of  the  "  giants,"  near  Punta  Santa  Elena  in 
Ecuador.  According  to  Zarate,  it  was  known  to  the  Spaniards 
prior  to  1543,  but  not  credited  until  the  discovery  of  large  fossil 
bones  in  that  year  furnished,  in  the  light  of  knowledge  of  the 
times,  an  apparent  confirmation.  The  finding  of  fossil  remains  of 
unusual  size  was  not  altogether  accidental.  The  captain  Juan  de 
Olmos,  lieutenant  governor  at  Puerto  Viejo  in  the  year  aforesaid, 
hearing  of  "  all  these  things,  caused  excavations  to  be  made  in  that 
valley,  where  they  found  such  large  ribs  and  other  bones  that,  if  the 
skulls  had  not  appeared  at  the  same  time,  it  would  not  have  been 
credible  they  were  of  human  persons.  .  .  .  Teeth  then  found  were 
sent  to  different  parts  of  Peru  ;  they  were  three  fingers  broad  and 
four  in  length."  Although  these  remains  were  found  beneath  the 
surface,  it  is  possible  that  some  skull  had  previously  been  seen  by 
the  Indians  who  founded  thereon  an  ** observation  myth"  (29). 
On  the  other  hand,  the  tale  may  probably  be  a  distorted  reminis- 
cence of  some  precolumbian  occurrence  on  the  coast  of  Ecquador. 

It  is  not  likely  that  the  earliest  Spanish  discoverers  of  Peru  had 
already  heard  of  the  tradition.  Oviedo  surely  would  have  men- 
tioned it,  as  he  carefully  recorded  everything  that  came  to  his  notice 
at  the  time.  He  conversed  with  Diego  de  Almagro  on  the  return 
of  the  latter  to  Panama  from  the  first  expedition  in  1527;  in  1534 
he  questioned  several  of  the  returning  members  of  Pizarro's  corps, 


BANDELIKR]       TRADITIONS  OF  PRECOLUMBIAN  LANDINGS  26 1 

on  the  island  of  Santo  Domingo,  and  in  1536  conversed  with  Pedro 
de  Alvarado.  Had  any  of  these  mentioned  the  **  giants,"  Oviedo 
would  not  have  failed  to  note  it  in  his  voluminous  work.  It  is 
therefore  likely  that  the  Spaniards  first  heard  of  the  tradition  between 
1536  and  1543  (30). 

The  earliest  reports  on  the  "  giants  "  are  by  Cieza  and  21arate, 
printed  in  1553  and  1555,  respectively.     The  former  says  : 

*  *  The  natives  tell,  from  what  they  heard  through  their  forefathers, 
who  heard  and  had  it  from  far  back,  that  there  came  by  sea  in  rafts  of 
reeds  after  the  manner  of  large  boats,  some  men  who  were  so  tall  that  from 
the  knee  down  they  were  as  big  as  the  full  length  of  an  ordinary  fair-sized 
man,  and  the  limbs  were  in  prop>ortion  to  their  bodies,  so  misshapen  that 
it  was  monstrous  to  look  at  their  heads,  as  large  as  they  were,  and  with 
the  hair  that  came  down  to  the  shoulders.  The  eyes  they  give  to  under- 
stand were  of  the  size  of  small  plates.  They  affirm  that  they  had  no 
beards  and  that  some  were  clad  in  skins  of  animals,  while  others  came  as 
nature  made  them,  and  there  were  no  women  along.  Arriving  at  this 
point,  and  after  making  on  it  their  settlement  in  the  form  of  a  village 
(even  at  the  present  day  the  sites  of  the  houses  are  known),  they  did  not 
find  water,  and  in  order  to  supply  the  need  thereof,  made  some  deep 
wells,  a  work  that  is  certainly  worthy  of  remembrance,  performed  by  as 
strong  men  as  it  is  presumed  they  were,  judging  from  their  size.  And 
they  dug  these  wells  in  the  live  rock  until  they  found  water,  and  after- 
ward lined  them  with  stone  to  the  mouth,  in  such  manner  that  they  will 
last  for  many  ages,  in  which  [wells]  there  is  always  good  and  savory 
water,  and  always  so  cold  that  it  is  a  great  pleasure  to  drink  it.  Having 
thus  established  themselves,  these  tall  men  or  giants,  and  having  these 
wells  or  cisterns  out  of  which  they  drank,  they  ate  and  wasted  all  the  food 
they  could  find  in  the  land,  for  each  one  of  them  consumed  more  than 
fifty  of  the  natives  of  the  country,  and  as  the  supply  was  not  sufficient  for 
them,  they  killed  much  fish  in  the  sea  by  means  of  their  nets  and  con- 
trivances which,  it  stands  to  reason,  they  must  have  had.  The  natives 
abhorred  them,  for  they  killed  their  women  in  making  use  of  them,  and 
the  men  they  killed  for  other  reasons.  The  Indians  did  not  feel  strong 
enough  to  kill  these  new  people  that  had  come  to  take  their  country  and 
domain,  although  great  meetings  were  held  to  confer  about  it ;  but  they 
dare  not  attack  them.  After  a  few  years,  the  giants  being  still  in  the 
country,  and  having  no  women,  and  those  of  the  Indians  not  suiting  their 
great  size,  or  because  it  may  have  been  by  advice  and  inducement  of  the 


262  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

demon,  they  resorted  to  the  unnatural  vice  of  sodomy,  which  they  com- 
mitted openly  in  public,  with  no  fear  of  God  and  little  shame  of  them- 
selves.** (31) 

Then  followed  the  punishment  of  which  I  shall  treat  at  length 
in  a  subsequent  paper  — an  angel  appeared  in  a  mass  of  fire  from 
heaven  and  killed  them  all.  Cieza  is  fully  convinced  of  the  truth 
of  the  story  and  refers  to  the  large  fossil  bones  in  evidence,  showing 
that  he  obtained  his  data  after  1 543. 

Agustin  de  Zarate  differs  but  little  from  Cieza  in  his  main  state- 
ments, except  that  he  does  not  mention  their  landing  on  the  coast 

(32). 

After  these  two  primitive  sources,  the  tale  was  often  repeated, 
with  slight  variations  (33).  I  shall  refer  to  only  a  part  of  one  of 
the  later  versions,  contained  in  an  anonymous  description  of  the 
"  government '*  of  Guayaquil,  dating  from  about  the  year  1605, 
apparently  an  official  document  by  one  who  was  intimately  ac- 
quainted with  the  district.     It  says  : 

**They  drink  water  out  of  wells,  especially  of  one  they  call  of  the 
Giants  which,  according  to  the  sayings  of  the  ancient  Indians,  lived  in 
that  country,  not  as  original  inhabitants,  but  from  other  parts. ' ' 

The  fossil  remains  of  large  size  are  also  alluded  to  :  **  They  are 
chiefly  preserved  in  the  deposits  of  pitch,  of  which  there  are  few." 

(34) 

It  thus  seems  that  the  tale  of  the  landing  of  so-called  giants  on 
the  coast  of  southern  Ecuador  is  a  genuine  Indian  tradition  from  a 
period  antedating  the  sixteenth  century.  It  appears  also  that  it 
refers  to  people  entirely  distinct  from  the  American  natives  ;  but  we 
are  at  a  loss  to  find  even  an  inkling  as  to  whence  these  people  may 
have  come. 

Under  these  circumstances  it  is  at  least  premature  to  attempt 
conjectures  as  to  the  part  of  the  globe  whence  the  so-called  giants 
came.  If  their  original  home  lay  beyond  the  American  continent, 
some  of  the  island  groups  of  the  South  sea  might  be  considered  as 
affording  the  answer.  How  far  the  craft  in  use  by  the  islanders 
might  have  enabled  such  long  voyages,  and  in  what  manner  oceanic 
currents  and  winds  might  have  favored  or  impeded  them,  are  sub- 
jects for  investigation  on  the  islands  themselves. 


BANDEUER]     TRADITIONS  OF  PRECOLUMBIAN  LANDINGS  263 

It  is  possible  that  the  strange  beings  came  from  some  point  on 
the  western  coast  of  America,  although  the  marked  difference  in 
appearance  between  them  and  the  coast  Indians  of  Ecuador  would 
rather  indicate  an  extra-American  ofigin. 

The  large  stature  attributed  to  the  intruders  should  not  be  taken 
too  literally.  During  the  course  of  many  ages  traditional  person- 
ages easily  assume  exaggerated  proportions.  The  Indians  of  Ecua- 
dor and  Peru  are  of  low  stature,  comparatively  speaking,  and  any- 
one above  their  average  height  becomes,  in  their  eyes,  first  a  tall, 
later  a  very  tall  man.  If  to  unusual  size,  hostile  demeanor  is  added, 
after  a  lapse  of  time  aboriginal  lore  converts  him  into  a  monster, 
morally  and  physically,  and  it  is  in  some  such  sense  that  the  term 
"giant**  should  be  understood  —  a  being  with  superior  physical 
power  and  destructive  tendencies.  As  for  the  manner  in  which  the 
"giants"  came  to  be  exterminated,  it  may  be  said  that,  while  the 
natural  phenomenon  described  in  connection  with  their  destruction 
seems  to  indicate  the  fall  of  a  meteorite  of  unusual  size,  the  possibility 
of  some  volcanic  disturbance  should  not  be  excluded. 

Notes 

1.  De  Civitate  Deiy  cap.  7,  lib.  xvi. 

2.  The  Cross  of  Carabuco,  American  Anthropologist ^  vi,  No.  5,  1904. 

3.  Corbnica  moralizada  del  Or  den  de  San  Agustin  en  el  Ferv,  vol.  i, 
1638,  lib,  II,  cap.  II,  III,  IV ;  also  cap.  x  on  Viracocha. 

4.  Having  frequently  quoted,  in  previous  papers,  the  sources  to  which 
I  must  refer,  I  abridge  titles  in  order  to  save  space  and  to  avoid  repeti- 
tion. The  report  of  the  Augustines  is  in  vol.  iii  of  the  Documentos  inid- 
itos  de  Indias  under  the  title  **Relacion  de  la  Religion  y  de  los  Ritos  del 
Peru,**  etc.  The  passage  is  found  on  p.  22  :  **  Pues  finge  el  demonio,  y 
los  indios  io  tenian  muy  creido,  que  Ataguju  envi6  a  el  mundo  desde  el 
cielo  a  este  Guamansuri,  y  este  vino  a  el  mundo  a  la  provincia  de  Guam- 
achuco,  que  de  alll  se  habia  de  comenzar,  y  cuando  vino  hallo  en  €\  cris- 
tianos,  que  en  lengua  de  Guamachuco  se  Uaman  Guachemines,  y  ^1  andaba 
muy  pobre  entre  ellos.  Y  los  guachemines  le  hacian  trabajar  y  hacer  sus 
chacaras :  tenian  estos  guachemines  una  hermana,que  llamaban  Cantaguan^ 
la  cual  tenian  muy  encerrada  que  no  la  veia  nadie ;  y  un  dia  fueron  los 
hermanos  fuera,  y  entonces  Guamansuri  fu^  a  ella  y  con  halagos  y  enga- 
fios  la  hubo  y  empreflo.  Y  como  los  hermanos  guachemines  la  vieron 
prefiada  y  supieron  el  negocio,  y  que  Guamansuri  habia  sido  el  estrupador 
y  agresor,  prendieronle  y  quemaronle  y  hici^ron  le  polvos ;  y  dicen  los 
indios  que  los  polvos  se  subieron  al  cielo  y  que  se  qued6  alia  con  Ata- 
guju ;  y  por  esta  causa  por  entonces  no  hobo  la  erecion  de  los  indios  y  a 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S  ,  7—18 


/ 


264  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

ella  pusieron  d  muy  buen  recabdo. ' '  This  bears  a  suspiciously  Christian 
tinge,  (p.  23)  :  **  Y  entonces  dice  quel  fuerte  mancebo  mat6  a  los  gua- 
chemines,  y  a  algunos  que  quedaron  ech61es  de  la  tierra.  * '  The  story  of 
the  followers  of  Viracocha,  or  Tonapa,  is  entirely  different.  Com- 
pare Juan  de  Betanzos,  Suma  y  Narracian  de  los  Incas^  cap.  11,  p.  8. 
From  the  report  of  the  Augustines  it  would  seem  that  the  "  Guache- 
mines**  inhabited  the  country  before  the  Indians,  for  Catequil,  who 
was  the  son  of  Cantaguan,  killed  the  so-called  Christians :  '^  Enton- 
ces subi6se  al  cielo  y  dix61e  a  Ataguju :  '  ya  la  tierra  estd  libre  y  los 
guachemines  muertos  y  echados  de  la  tierra,  agora  te  ruego  que  se 
crien  indios  que  la  habiten  y  labren.*  *'  Thereupon  Ataguju  (to  whom 
creation  is  attributed)  directed  Catequil  to  go  to  a  height  between  Lima 
and  Truxillo,  **  y  que  fuesen  d  el  dicho  cerro  y  cavasen  con  taquillas  6 
azadas  de  plata  y  oro  y  de  alii  sacaria  los  indios  y  de  alii  se  multiplicarian 
y  se  multiplicaron  todos ;  y  asi  se  hizo  y  que  de  alii  sali6  su  principio. ' ' 
Hence  the  **  Guachemines  * '  occupied  the  region  before  the  Indians,  Their 
identification  with  * '  Christians  * '  is  certainly  posterior  to  the  conquest 
and  invented  by  the  Indians  to  explain  and  excuse,  to  a  certain  extent, 
their  opposition  to  the  Christian  faith.  This  results  plainly  from  p.  24 : 
"  Lo  segundo  es  que  dicen  los  indios,  que  porque  los  indios  mataron  los 
guachemines  y  los  echaron,  agora  los  cristianos  son  sus  enemigos  y  les  hacen 
tanto  mal  y  los  roban  y  toman  sus  mujeres  y  haciendas  ;  y  por  esto  ellos 
son  nuestros  enemigos,  y  el  demon io,  porque  mataron  los  guachemines  a 
Guamansuri,  quiere  mal  a  los  cristianos  y  los  teme,  y  no  querria  que  en 
cosa  recibiesen  la  ley  de  los  cristianos,  y  no  hay  que  dubdar  sin6  que  es 
grande  el  6dio  que  nos  han  tenido. '  *  The  traditions  about  * '  white  men  '  * 
from  the  vicinity  of  Ayacucho,  and  the  tales  connected  with  the  ruins  of 
the  Rio  Vinaque,  will  be  treated  farther  on.  They  bear  some  analogy 
to  the  Huamachuco  stories. 

5.  Lucas  Fernandez  de  Piedrahita,  Historia  general  de  las  Conqinstas 
del  Nvevo  Reyno  de  Granada  (1688,  lib.  i,  cap.  iii,  p.  17)  :  *'Tenian 
alguna  noticia  del  diluvio,  y  de  la  creacion  del  mundo ;  pero  con  tanto 
adicion  de  disparates,  que  fuera  indecencia  reducirlos  a  la  pluma :  y  comu- 
nicados  en  esta  materia  referian,  y  lo  hazen  al  presente  por  tradicion  de 
vnos  en  otros,  que  en  los  passados  siglos  aport6  a  aquellas  regiones  vn 
hombre  estrangero,  a  quien  llaman  vnos  Nemquetheba,  otros  Bochica,  y 
otros  Zuh6,  y  algunos  dizen,  que  no  fue  solo  el  estrangero,  sino  tres,que 
en  diferentes  tiempos  entraron  predicando ;  pero  lo  mas  comun,  y  reci- 
bido  entre  ellos  es,  que  fue  vno  solo  con  los  tres  epitetos  referidos. 
Este  tal,  dizen,  que  tenia  la  barba  muy  crecida  hasta  la  cintura,  los  cabe- 
llos  recogidos  con  vna  cinta  como  tren^a  puesta  a  la  manera,  que  los  an- 
tiguos  Fariseos  vsaban  los  Philacterios,  6  Coronas  con  que  se  rodeaban 
las  cabezas.  .  .  .  Andaba  este  hombre  con  las  plantas  desnudas,  y  traia 
vna  Almalafa  puesta,  cuyas  puntas  juntaba  con  vn  nudo  sobre  el  ombro  ; 
de  donde  afiaden  aver  tomado  el  trage,  el  vso  del  cabello,  y  de  andar 
descal^os'*  (p.  18).  He  preached  to  the  Indians  and,  **  del  Bochica 
refieren  en  particular  muchos  beneficios,  que  los  hizo,  como  son  dezir, 
que  por  inundaciones  del  rio  Funzha  en  que  intervino  el  arte  de  Huy- 


BANDELiER]       TRADITIONS  OF  PRECOLUMB IAN  LANDINGS  26$ 

thica,  etc."  The  miracle  of  Tenquendama  follows  (p.  19)  :  "  Vltima- 
mente  afirman  del  Bochica,  que  muri6  en  Sogamoso  despues  de  su  predi- 
cacioD ;  y  que  aviendo  vivido  alii  retirado  veinte  vezes  cinco  veintes  de 
afios,  que  por  su cuenta hazen dos mil,  fue  trasladado al cielo. "  .  .  .  "EI 
averle  dado  entre  otros  el  epiteto  de  Zuh6,  que  es  el  mismo,  que  dieron 
despues  a  los  primeros  hombres  blancos,  que  vieron  en  las  conquistas." 
On  the  heels  of  Bochica  there  appeared  a  very  beautiful  woman  who, 
however,  was  as  bad  as  Bochica  was  good,  and  whom  the  latter,  accord- 
ing to  some,  converted  into  an  owl,  or  into  the  moon  according  to  others 
(p.  18).  This  woman  is  sometimes  called  Huythdca,  again  Chia  and 
Yubecayguaya.  To  her  evil  arts  the  inundation  of  the  Rio  Funzha  is 
attributed.  I  have  elsewhere  called  attention  to  the  difficulty  of  deter- 
mining whether  these  traditions,  as  told  in  the  seventeenth  century, 
existed  as  early  as  1536,  when  the  first  contact  of  the  Chibchas  with  the 
whites  took  place.  The  writings  of  the  conqueror  Quesada,  finished  in 
1539,  preserved  in  manuscript  in  the  national  historical  archives  of 
Spain,  can  alone  throw  light  on  this  question.  The  title  of  this  precious 
document  is  Epitome  del  Nuevo  Reino  de  Granada,  See  Jimenez  de  la  Es- 
pada,  Relaciones  geogrdficas  de  Indias,  vol.  i,  p.  xliv,  **  Antecedentes.^^ 

6.  Noticias  historiales  de  las  Conquistas  de  Tierrafirme  en  las  Indias 
occidentales  (MS.  in  the  Lenox  branch  of  N.  Y.  Public  Library;  pt.  11, 
noticia  iv,  cap.  3,  p.  261):  **Aq'  ayuda  mucho  una  tradicion  cer- 
tissima  q*  tienen  todos  los  de  este  reyno,  de  haver  uivido  en  el  veinte 
hedades  v  cuentan  en  cada  edad  70  afios,  un  hombre  no  conocido  de  nadie 
ya  mayor  en  afios  y  cargado  de  canas,  el  cabello  y  barva  larga  hasta  la 
cintura  cogida  la  cabellera  con  vna  cinta.  .  .  .  Dicen  q*  vino  por  la 
parte  del  Leste  q'  son  los  llanos  q*  llaman  continuados  de  Venezuela,  y 
entr6  a  este  reyno  por  el  pueblo  de  Pasca  al  sur  de  esta  Ciudad  de  S** 
F^."  .  .  .  (p.  262)  :  **  Desde  alii  vino  al  pueblo  de  Boza  donde  se  le 
muri6  vn  Camello  q*  traia,  cuyos  guesos  procuraron  conservar  los  natu- 
rales,  pues  aun  hallaron  algunos  los  Espafloles  en  aquel  pueblo  quando 
entraron,  entre  los  quales  dicen  q*  fu^  la  costilla  q*"  adoraban  en  la  laguna 
llamada  Bozassio :  los  Indios  de  Boza  y  Suacha,  a  este  pusieron  dos  6 
tres  nombres  segun  la  variedad  de  las  lenguas  q*  havia  por  donde  pasaba." 
On  p.  265  he  describes  the  wanderings  of  that  man  over  the  highlands  of 
Bogata,  preaching. 

7.  Noticias  historiales y  MS.  pt.  11,  not.  rv,  cap.  iv,  p.  266. 

8.  Piedrahita,  Historia  general  de  las  Conqvistas^  p.  17.  Simon, 
Noticias  historiales  (pt.  11,  not.  iv,  cap.  iv,  p.  264)  says  of  Bochica :  "El 
Bochica  era  Dios  mas  universal  y  aun  casi  Sefior  de  este  otro.  *  * 

9.  According  to  Enrique  Torres  Saldamando  {Los  antiguos  Jesuitas 
del  Peru,  Lima,  1882,  p.  107),  Oliva  was  a  Neapolitan  and  came  to 
Lima  in  1597,  where  he  was  consecrated  and  sent  to  Juli,  on  the  shores 
of  Lake  Titicaca.  He  remained  in  Bolivia  a  number  of  years,  chiefly  at 
Chuquisaca  (Sucre)  and  Potosi.  In  1636  he  was  rector  of  the  college  of 
Jesuits  a*t  Callao.  He  died  at  Lima  in  1642.  His  book,  Historia  del 
Peru  y  Varones  insignes  en  Santidad  de  la  Compaflia  de  Jesus ^  was 
approved  in  1631,  the  year  of  its  completion. 


266  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

10.  Historia  del  Ferv^  1719  (p.  5).  He  says  of  his  Indian  informant 
"  pero  mejor  d  mi  ver  hace  relation  dellos  el  quipocamayo  y  cacique 
llamado  Catari  viejo  antiguo  del  valle  de  Cochabamba  y  hijo  de  los  qui- 
pocamayos  coronistas  de  los  Reies  Incas  por  que  aunque  admite, ' '  etc. 

11.  Historia  del  Pen^  (pp.  23-37).  It  would  take  too  much  space 
to  quote  the  whole.  He  says,  among  other  things :  *  *  Aportaron  a  Caracas, 
donde  poblaron  y  hi^ieron  alto  :  y  de  donde  despues  el  tiempo  adelante 
se  fueron  estendiendo  en  las  demas  tierras  y  prouin^ias  de  Peru.  Destos 
primeros  pobladores  passaron  algunos  a  las  partes  de  Sumpa,  que  es  aquel 
paraje  que  aora  los  Espafioles  Uaman  la  punta  de  sancta  Helena  que  esta 
en  dos  grados."  He  goes  on  to  tell  of  several  expeditions  from  Santa 
Elena  to  various  parts  of  South  America,  including  Brazil  and  Paraguay. 
After  the  ''giants'*  had  been  exterminated,  voyages  were  made  farther 
down  the  coast  as  well  as  into  the  interior.  The  stories  are  confused, 
and  there  is  such  a  mixture  of  pretended  lore  from  Ecuador  and  from 
Peru  that  it  presents  an  exceedingly  suspicious  appearance.  Finally  (p. 
32),  he  causes  Manco  Capac  to  be  bom  on  the  island  of  Pund,  near  Guay- 
aquil, whence  he  coasted  with  his  people  as  far  as  Lima,  "  y  Manco 
con  la  gente  que  le  sigui6  ap>orto  acia  la  costa  de  Rimac. ' '  On  account 
of  a  severe  storm  and  earthquake  Manco  continued  his  voyage  down  the 
coast  and  went  inland  to  the  Collao.  He  found  the  Titicaca  region 
already  inhabited.     All  this  does  not  read  like  genuine  Indian  folklore. 

12.  Historia  del  Peru  (lib.  i,  cap.  2,  p.  23):  "  Y  enel  tiempo  que 
estoy  escribiendo  esta  vinieron  a  mis  manos  unos  papeles  originales,  que 
roe  dio  el  doctor  Bartholome  Ceruantes,  racionero  de  la  Sancta  yglesia 
de  los  Charcas  en  que  halle  con  puntualidad  lo  que  muchos  alios  a  e 
deseado  saber. ' ' 

13.  Segunda  Parte  de  la  Crbnica  del  Peru ^  cap.  iv,  p.  4. 

14.  Memorias  antiguas  historiales  y  politicas  del  Peru^  ?•  3- 

15.  Relacion  de  Antiguedades  deste  Reyno  del  Piru^  p.  234  :  "  Dizen 
que  en  tiempo  de  Purunpacha  todas  las  naciones  de  Tauantinsuyo  benieron 
de  hazia  arriba  de  Potossi  tres  6  quatro  exercitos  en  forma  de  guerra,  y 
assi  los  venieron  poblando,  tomando  los  lugares,  quedandose  cada  vno  de 
los  compafiias  en  los  lugares  baldios.  * ' 

16.  Compare  pp.  236  to  240,  and  his  profession  of  faith,  p.  234. 

17.  Primera  parte  de  la  Crbnica  del  Peru ^  p.  453. 

18.  Descripcion  de  la  Tier r a  del  Repartimiento  de  los  Rue  anas  Anta- 
marcas  de  la  Corona  real,  Jurisdicion  de  la  ciudad  de  Guanianga^  1586, 
in  Relaciones  geogrdficas  de  IndiaSy  vol.  i,  p.  210:  "Respdndese 
al  capitulo  veinte  y  uno,  que  junto  al  pueblo  de  La  Vera  Cruz  de 
Cauana  esta  un  pueblo  derribado,  al  parecer,  antiquisima  cosa.  Tiene 
paredes  de  piedra  labrada,  aunque  la  obra  tosca ;  las  portadas  de  las 
casas,  algunas  de  ellas  algo  mas  de  dos  varas  en  alto,  y  los  lumbrales 
labrados  de  piedras  muy  grandes ;  y  hay  seftales  de  calles.*'  It  may  be 
that  these  edifices  are  those  mentioned  by  Cieza  (Primera  parte  de  la 
Cronica,  p.  434,  cap.  lxxxvii)  as  on  the  Rio  Vinaque,  "adonde  estan 
unos  grandes  y  muy  antiquisimos  edificios,  que  cierto,  segun  estan  gasta- 
dos  y  arruinados,  debe  de  haber  pasado  por  ellos  muchas  edades.     Pregun- 


BANDELiER]       TRADITIONS  OF  PRECOLUMBIAN  LANDINGS  267 

tando  d  los  Indios  comarcanos  quien  hizo  aquella  antigualla,  responden 
que  otras  gentes  barbadas  y  blancas  como  nosotros,  los  cuales,  muchos 
tiempo  antes  que  los  ingas  reinasen,  dicen  que  vinieron  d  estas  partes  y 
hicieron  alii  su  morada.  *  *  If  the  ruins  on  the  Vinaque  are  the  same  as 
those  near  Cauana,  then  the  Spaniards  must  have  heard  the  tradition 
shortly  after  the  conquest, 

19.  Primera  parte  de  la  Misceidnea  Antdrctica  (MS.  in  the  Lenox 
branch  of  the  New  York  Pubic  Library,  fol.  257).  The  *'  Nayres  *'  were 
originally  from  Malabar,  I  am  informed  by  Dr  Berthold  Laufer,  the  distin- 
guished student  of  eastern  Asiatic  anthropology.  According  to  Cabello 
Balboa  these  Nayres,  in  the  course  of  their  depredations,  came  from  Asia 
to  Chile  and  "  fueron  el  origen,  y  cepa  de  los  Yndios  de  Chile,  de  quien 
tambien  descienden  los  Chiriguanaes  (6  mejor  diciendo)  Chiliganaes  de 
estos  fueron  fabricadas  aquellas  fortalezas  estrafias  que  en  Ayavira,  y  Tia- 
guanaco  ( y  en  otras  partes  de  este  pedazo  de  mundo)  se  an  visto, ' '  etc.  (cap. 
19,  fol.  257).  '*  Se  metieron  en  a  tierra  austral,  y  de  alii  jamas  se  tuvo 
nueva  y  noticia  de  ellos  La  entrada  que  ellos  afiide  [?]  en  las  n™*  Yndias 
es  congetura  por  las  razones  que  los  Yndios  antiguos  dan  para  tenerla  por 
las  antiguas  tradiciones  de  sus  mayores  que  les  decian  que  de  acia  aquella 
parte  del  Mundo  avian  venido  estos  pestilentes  tiranos,  y  la  misma  razon 
dan  los  de  Chile  sefialando  su  venida  de  acia  el  estrecho  aquien  llamamos 
de  Magallanes.  *  *  This  passage  is  confused.  In  the  first  place,  Balboa 
says  that  nothing  was  known  or  learned  about  the  **  Nayres  "  after  they 
had  once  penetrated  inland,  yet  he  attributes  to  them  the  construction  of 
the  ancient  edifices  near  Ayaviri  (probably  the  remains  of  Pucard  are 
meant)  and  Tiahuanaco.  Again,  he  intimates  that  the  Nayres  were  the 
original  inhabitants  and  settlers,  whereas  he  also  states  that  the  Indians 
of  Chile  spoke  of  them  as  ruthless  invaders.  All  this  shows  that  he  has 
arranged,  but  not  objectively  rendered,  the  traditions  claimed  by  him  to  be 
original  and  primitive.  What  might  possibly  be  gathered  from  his  state- 
ments is  that  there  existed  in  his  time,  among  the  Indians  of  Chile,  lore, 
perhaps  ancient,  relative  to  landings  on  the  southern  Chilean  coast  of 
people  coming  ft^om  the  direction  of  Asia.  This  is  said  with  every  proper 
reserve. 

20.  The  manuscript  of  Balboa,  in  all  likelihood,  was  not  known  to 
Barcia,  the  editor  of  Garcia*s  Origen  de  los  Indios^  1729.  In  cap.  xxiii, 
p.  247,  Garcia  treats  of  the  possibility  of  an  East  Indian  origin  of  the  In- 
dians of  southern  Chile,  but  he  quotes  as  authorities  Hugo  Grotius  {Diss, 
I  de  Origin  Amer, )  and  Hornius  (^De  Originibus  Americanis  Libri  qua- 
tuory  1652,  lib.  I,  fol,  55,  56),  which  indicates  that  the  quotation  is  by 
Barcia,  as  the  first  edition  bears  date  1607. 

21.  Misceidnea,  etc.,  (MS.,  pt.  in,  cap.  17,  fol.  509):  "Que  en 
tiempos  muy  antiguos  que  no  saben  numerarlos  vino  de  la  parte  suprema 
de  este  Piru  con  gran  fiota  de  Balsas  vn  padre  de  Campafias,  hombre  de 
mucho  valor  y  calidad  llamado  Naymlap,  y  consigo  traia  muchas  concu- 
binas,  mas  la  muger  principal  dicese  averse  llamado  Ceterni,  trujo  en  su 
compafiia  muchas  gentes  que  ansi  como  a  Capitan  y  caudillo  le  venian 
siguiendo.   ...    [p.  511  0    ^^^^  Sefior  Naymlap  con  todo  su  repuesto 


268  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

vino  i  aportar  y  tomar  tieria  d  la  boca  de  vn  Rio  (aora  llamado  Faquis- 
llanga)  y  auiendo  alii  desamparado  sus  balsas  se  entraron  la  tierra  adentro. ' ' 

22.  Relacion  de  los  primeros  descubrimientos  de  Francisco  Pizarro  y 
Diego  de  Almagro  (in  Doc,  para  la  Historia  de  Espafla,  vol.  v,  p.  196). 
This  document  states  (p.  193)  that  Pizarro  and  Almagro  left  on  their 
expedition  in  1525.  He  was  at  Panama  again  in  1528. — Informacion 
hecha  en  Panamd  d  pedimento  de  Garcia  de/arin,  Aug.  3,  1528  {Doc, 
para  la  Hist,  de  Espaha,  vol.  xxvi,  p.  259).  If  the  craft  captured  by 
Ruiz  was  ''de  cabida  de  hasta  treinta  toueles,"  it  was  not  much  smaller 
than  the  smallest  vessels  of  Pizarro.  Relacion  de  los  primeros  descubri- 
mientos  (p.  193)  :  Partieron  en  el  afio  de  25  con  dos  navios  de  cuarenta 
y  setenta  toneles  y  un  bergantin  pequefio. '  * 

23.  Relacion  de  los  Descubrimientos  (p.  198):  '*  Salieron  d  losdichos 
navios  catorce  canoas  grandes  con  muchos  indios.*' — Pedro  Pizarro,  Re- 
lacion del  descubrimiento  y  conquista  de  los  reinos  del  Peru  (Doc,  para  la 
Hist,  de  Espafla,  v,  215). 

24.  Historia  del  Nuevo  Mundo  (iv,  221):  *'  Las  mayores  balsas  que 
usan  los  indios  peruanos  que  habitan  cerca  de  montaiias,  como  los  de  los 
puertos  de  Payta,  Manta  y  Guayaquil,  son  compuestas  de  siete,  nueve  6 
mas  maderos  de  palo  de  balsa,  por  este  orden  :  que  los  atan  a  lo  largo 
unos  con  otros  con  bejucos  6  cuerdas  sobre  otros  atravesados ;  el  de  enme- 
dio  es  por  la  proa  mas  largo  que  los  otros ;  los  cuales  van  siendo  mas 
cortos  unos  que  otros  cuanto  mas  se  apartan  d  los  lados ;  de  suerte  que 
vienen  i  quedar  en  la  proa  con  la  figura  y  proporci6n  que  guardan  los 
dedos  de  la  mano  extendida,  puesto  que  por  la  popa  son  iguales ;  encima 
hacen  tablados,  para  que  no  se  moje  la  gente  y  ropa  que  va  en  ellas  con 
el  agua  que  les  entra  por  las  junturas  de  los  leflos.  Navegan  por  la  mar 
d  vela  y  remo,  y  son  algunas  tan  grandes,  que  caben  holgadamente  cin- 
cuenta  hombres.  * ' 

25.  Relacion  general  de  las poblaciones  espaflolas  del  Peru  {Rel,  geo- 
grdf,  de  IndiaSy  i,  13):  '*  Por  este  rio  arriba  hasta  el  Desembarcadero 
que  hay  diez  y  nueve  leguas,  se  va  en  unas  que  llaman  balsas ;  en  lugar 
de  barcos,  y  son  como  palos  grandes  atados  uno  con  otro,  ni  mas  ni 
m^nos  que  la  escalera  de  una  carreta,  digo  como  una  carreta  quitadas  las 
ruedas,  salvo  que  van  los  palos  juntos ;  el  de  en  medio  es  mas  largo  y  es 
la  proa  de  la  balsa,  en  la  cabeza  del  cual  va  siempre  gobemando  un  indio, 
y  a  los  lados  van  cada  tres,  6  cada  dos  6  cada  cinco  indios,  segun  son  las 
balsas  y  la  carga  que  lie  van  ;  porque  algunos  son  de  siete  palos,  y  de  aqui 
no  suben  :  van  lianas  por  el  agua,  que  algunas  veces  las  bafia  el  agua,  y 
los  regalados  y  gente  de  respeto  hacen  poner  unas  tablas  sobre  unos  palos 
atravesados,  y  alii  van  echados.  Otras  veces  hacen  poner  a  los  lados 
unas  estacas  y  atravesados  palos  como  las  varas  de  carreta,  por  si  llevan 
nifios  no  caigan  en  el  agua ;  y  ansi  subi  yo  con  mi  muger  y  hijos  ;  y  por 
el  sol  hacen  un  dejadillo  de  paja,  de  manera  que  cuando  esta  balsa  va 
ansi,  parice  una  choza  de  pastores.'*  These  rafts  recall  the  *'  callapas  '* 
in  use  on  the  confluence  of  the  Amazon  in  eastern  Bolivia,  which,  how- 
ever, are  usually  tvi'O  rafts  attached  at  the  sides  and  each  with  its 
platform. 


BANDEUER]       TRADITIONS  OF  PRECOLUMBIAN  LANDINGS  269 

26.  Historia  general y  natural  de  Indias  (vol.  iv,  lib.  XLVi,  cap.  xvii, 
p.  3  2  3  ) :  "  Son  hechas  de  unos  palos  gordos  k.  livianos  tablados  como  vigas, 
^  otros  atravesadosy  en  que  van  atados,  ^  sus  barbacoas  enmedio,  h  sus 
velas  latinas,  ^  remeros  por  los  lados  con  sus  nahes. ' ' 

27.  Historia  natural y  moral  de  las  Indias  (ed.  of  1608,  lib.  i,  cap. 
19,  p.  68) :  *'  Tambien  cuentan  los  Indios  de  Yea,  y  los  de  Arica,  que  solian 
antiguamente  nauegar  a  vnas  Islas  al  Poniente  muy  lexos,  y  la  nauegacion 
era  en  vnos  cueros  de  lobo  Marino  hinchados.  De  manera  que  no  faltan 
indiciosy  de  que  se  aya  navegado  la  mar  del  Sur,  antes  q*  viniessen 
Espafioles  por  ella. '  * 

28.  Hist,  del  Nuevo  Mundo  (iv,  220)  :  "  Hdcenlas  de  dos  cueros  de 
Lobos  Marinos  llenos  de  aire,  los  cuales  atan  uno  con  otro  al  modo  de  los 
dos  haces  de  que  se  hacen  las  de  Enea.  En  cada  una  va  solo  un  indio,  y 
entran  a  pescar  en  la  mar  tanto  trecho  como  en  las  otras.  Mas  porque 
estas  balsas  suelen  aflojarse  en  el  agua  y  descrecer,  para  que  no  se  hundan, 
lleva  cada  indio  un  cafiuto,  y  enmedio  de  la  mar  se  pone  de  cuando  en 
cuando  a  desatarlas  y  rehenchirlas  a  soplos,  como  si  fueran  pelotas  de 
viento.  Son  tan  livianas  y  ligeras  en  el  agua,  como  la  materia  de  que 
son  compuestas,  que  es  aire ;  nunca  se  les  pone  velas,  como  ni  a  las  de 
Enea,  y  s61o  se  navega  en  ellas  i  remo,  como  en  las  primeras.^' 

29.  Agustin  de  Zarate,  Historia  del  Descubrimiento  y  Conquista  de  la 
Provincia  del  Peru  (In  Vedia,  vol.  11,  cap.  v,  p.  464)  :  '*  Y  con  todo 
esto,  nunca  se  di6  entero  cr^dito  d  lo  que  los  indios  decian  cerca  de  estos 
gigantes,  hasta  que  siendo  teniente  de  gobemador  en  Puerto-Viejo 
el  capitan  Juan  de  Olmos,  natural  de  Trujillo,  en  el  alio  de  543,  y 
oyendo  todas  estas  cosas,  hizo  cavar  en  aquel  valle,  donde  hallaron  tan 
grandes  costillas  y  otros  huesos,  que  si  no  parescieran  juntas  las  cabezas, 
no  era  creible  ser  de  personas  humanas ;  y  asi,  hecha  la  averiguacion  y 
vistas  las  sefiales  de  los  rayos  en  las  pefias,  se  tuvo  por  cierto  lo  que  los 
indios  decian  ;  y  se  enviaron  a  diversas  partes  del  PerCi  algunos  dientes 
de  los  que  alii  se  hallaron,  que  tenia  cada  uno  tres  dedos  de  ancho  y 
cuatro  de  largo.*'  The  fact  that  the  lieutenant-governor  caused  excava- 
tions to  be  made  leads  to  the  inference  that  the  Indians  suggested  to  him 
that  the  remains  of  the  **  giants  '*  were  buried.  In  the  Descripcion  de  la 
gobemacion  de  Guayaquil  {Doc,  de  Indias ^  ix,  273)  it  is  stated  that  the 
bones  are  specially  found  in  the  deposits  of  asphalt  near  Santa  Elena, 
which  are  well  known ;  hence  it  is  not  impossible  that  the  Indians  may 
have  seen  one  or  more  of  the  skulls  on  the  surface.  That  the  remains 
are  those  of  mastodons  is  made  likely  by  the  great  resemblance  that  they 
bear  to  human  crania  of  enormous  size,  as  Prof.  H.  F.  Osborne,  of  the 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  has  kindly  shown  to  me. 

30.  Historia  general  y  natural  (vol.  iv,  lib.  XLVii,  p  257;  also  pp. 
146,  213,  etc.).  Since  he  mentions  (p.  219)  the  asphalt  deposits,  he 
would  have  spoken  of  the  **  giants  *'  had  he  known  of  the  tale. 

31.  Primera  parte  del  Crbnica  del  Peru  (Vedia,  11,  cap.  Lii, 
p.  405).  The  translation  is  not  as  literal  as  might  be  desired,  yet 
it  conveys  Cieza's  meaning,  I  hope,  with  sufficient  adherence  to  his 
style. 


270  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

32.  Historia  del  descubrimienio  etc.  (Vedia,  11,  cap.  v,  p.  465): 
"  No  declaran  de  qu6  parte  vinieron.*'  He  further  says  :  *'  Vieron  los 
espafioles  en  Puerto-Viejo  dos  figuras  de  bulto  destos  gigantes,  una  de 
hombre  y  otra  de  mujer. '  *  It  is  in  the  vicinity  of  Santa  Elena  and  Puerto 
Viejo  that  the  carved  stone  seats  have  been  found,  representing  human 
figures  on  all  fours.  Examples  may  be  seen  in  several  museums  of  this 
and  other  countries.  The  fact,  mentioned  by  Zarate,  that  one  of  the 
carvings  represented  a  woman,  might  militate  against  his  assumption  that 
it  was  intended  to  depict  the  mythical  giants,  since  the  latter  had  no 
women  with  them. 

33.  I  would  only  mention  Gregorio  Garcia,  Origen  de  los  IndioSy 
1729  (lib.  I,  cap.  IV,  p.  35)  :  '*  Dicen,  que  aquellos  Gigantes  vinieron 
por  mar.**  Oliva,  Historia  del  Peru  (p.  25)  :  "Ay  tradicion  que  estos 
gigantes  llegaron  alii  por  mar  en  balsas.  *  * 

34.  Descripcion  de  la  gobemacion  de  Guayaquil  (vol.  ix,  p.  275)  : 
"Colonchillo  esta  poblado  en  el  puerto  de  la  punta  de  Santa  Elena, 
veinte  y  cinco  leguas  de  Guayaquil  y  siete  de  Colonche,  que  es  de  donde 
se  proveen  de  las  cosas  que  les  faltan ;  la  tierra  es  est^ril  y  sin  aguas ; 
beben  de  po^os,  especialmente  de  uno  que  llaman  de  los  Gigantes,  que 
segun  relacion  de  los  indios  viejos,  los  hubo  en  aquella  tierra,  no  nacidos 
en  ella,  sino  venidos  de  otras  partes." 


A    KEKCHI   WILL    OF    THE  SIXTEENTH    CENTURY* 

By  ROBERT   BURKITT 

You  said  that  you  would  like  to  see  a  copy,  which  I  had,  of  an 
old  Indian  will.  I  have  the  pleasure  of  sending  it.  I  am  afraid 
you  will  find  it  rather  stupid.  The  will  was  brought  to  my  notice 
four  or  five  years  ago,  in  Coban,  by  a  German  investigator — Mr 
Chas.  Sapper,  who  wished  me  to  see  what  I  could  make  of  it ;  there 
were  difficulties,  both  of  reading  and  of  interpretation.  The  will 
had  been  found  in  Carcha,  Mr  Sapper  said,  and  sent  to  the  Berlin 
Museum ;  when,  or  by  whom,  I  do  not  now  remember.  Of  that 
original  he  had  obtained  a  tracing,  and  the  tracing  was  what  I  saw. 
I  told  him  what  little  I  could,  at  the  time,  and  I  took  a  copy. 

On  looking  over  it  to  send  to  you  last  year,  it  was  plain  to  me 
that  the  text  would  be  of  little  or  no  use  without  something  in  the 
way  of  elucidation  ;  and  a  number  of  words  remained  to  be  identi- 
fied. This  delayed  me.  Sometimes  it  was  a  question  of  decipher- 
ing the  writing ;  sometimes  the  recovery  of  a  word  nearly  out  of 
use  and  unknown  to  most  Indians ;  sometimes  immediate  verifica- 
tion would  have  required  a  particular  journey.  I  have  not  made 
out  everything,  as  you  will  see,  but  I  have  done  a  good  deal ;  more, 
perhaps,  than  the  thing  deserves. 

The  will  is  the  will  of  a  dying  widow.  What  she  bequeathes 
are  articles  of  clothing,  a  grinding  stone,  a  couple  of  mattocks,  etc., 
some  Indian  com,  a  field  of  peppers,  and  a  garden.  Part  goes  to 
the  church,  to  pay  for  masses.  The  rest  is  divided  between  two 
Indians.  The  instrument  is  witnessed  by  town  officers  and  others, 
and  signed  by  the  Spanish  scribe  in  the  presence  of  the  testatrix 
and  of  at  least  one  of  the  legatees.  The  place  is  not  mentioned, 
but  it  was  either  Chamelco  or  Carcha.  The  date  is  the  3d  of  De- 
cember, 1583. 


^  This  paper,  originally  a  letter  of  Mr  Burkitt's,  b  presented  practically  in  the  form 
in  which  it  was  received.  —  Editor. 

271 


272  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

The  handwriting  is  of  the  round  order,  small  and  crabbed,  with 
frequent  idiosyncrasies.  For  instance,  the  sequence  tz  is  con- 
stantly so  written  as  to  look  like  a  capital  B,  Yet  the  main  is 
legible.  Uncertain  characters  are  few,  and  those  few  I  have  at- 
tempted to  imitate  in  the  copy. 

The  disposition  of  the  words,  syllables,  and  letters  is  much  as 
my  copy  represents.  Words  are  misunited ;  and  words  are  broken 
apart,  often,  apparently,  at  haphazard.  The  tale  of  syllables  is 
usually  complete.  Much  of  the  will,  however,  is  in  the  style  of 
notes  jotted  down  from  speech  ;  and  not  mere  syllables,  but  words, 
and  even  phrases,  are  probably  missing. 

The  punctuation  is  rude,  and  sometimes  obscure.  Periods  are 
separated  by  dashes,  but  not  always.  Little  or  no  use  is  made  of 
capital  letters.  Only  one  or  two  periods  begin  with  a  capital,  and 
a  few  of  the  proper  names. 

There  are  uses  in  spelling  to  be  noticed  : 

(i)  The  letters  b  and  v  are  used  indifferently,  not  only  for  the 
sound  of  b^  as  is  still  common  in  Spanish,  but  also  for  the  sound  of  w 
or  of  gw.  Alguacil  is  spelled  *  alvacil ' ;  the  Indian  gwan  is  both 
'  ban '  and  '  van ' ;  Vi  and  gwi  are  alike  spelled  *  vi ' ;  and  so  on. 

(2)  The  right  sound  of  //  is  written  // ;  but  sometimes  the  letter 
is  silent,  as  in  modem  Spanish ;  and  again  it  often  stands  for  the 
guttural  y.  Awabej,  for  instance,  is  written  *  hauabeh ' ;  and  jtin  is 
sometimes  *hun.*  The  Cajabon  manuscript,^  too,  uses  //  for  j 
constantly. 

(3)  There  is  no  attempt,  at  this  early  date,  to  distinguish  the 
sound  of  k  from  that  other  palatal  which  I  write  q  ;  they  and  their 
modifications,  ^  and  5,  are  alike  written  c  (or  qu,  as  Spanish  ortho- 
graphy may  require).  So  with  /  and  //  etc.  In  fact  the  only 
improvement  on  the  alphabet  of  present-day  Spanish  is  the  Cata- 
lonian  use  of  x  for  the  consonant  which  in  English  we  write  sh. 

(4)  When  that  consonant,  however,  is  the  possessive  prefix,  it 
is  not  written  x,  but  7;  a  custom  which  may  still  be  found  in 
Cajabon.  Thus,  oxib  (three)  the  will  spells  correctly ;  while  xhaq 
{its  price)  is  *  y  tzac,'  with  y  for  x, 

1  The  Cajab6n  manuscript  referred  to  here  and  elsewhere  in  this  article  is  in  posses- 
sion of  Charles  P.  Bowditch,  Esq.,  of  Boston,  Mass.  See  Amer,  Anthropologist^  1902, 
IV,  p.  456. 


BURKiTT]    A  kekchI  will  of  the  sixteenth  centur  y      273 

In  other  cases  y  is  either  for  the  vowel  /,  as  in  Spanish,  or  for 
the  Indian  consonant  y  (English  dy^  nearly). 

(5)  Z  has  the  sound  oi  s  ;  in  these  colonies  z  never  has  had  any 
other  sound. 

(6)  Contractions  are  frequent,  especially  by  omission  of  «,  as 
the  custom  was.  And  contraction  is  usually  indicated  by  a  super- 
script vinculum  or  similar  mark. 

Some  other  pecularities  and  aberrations  of  spelling  will  be  seen 
in  reading. 

In  the  following  text  of  the  will  the  large  type  represents  the 
original.  The  interlinear  is  the  same  thing  made  plain  ;  that  is,  the 
Indian  is  deciphered  in  my  phonetic  alphabet,  each  word  apart  and 
without  abbreviation.  The  Spanish  words  that  occur  are  dis- 
tinguished in  the  interlinear  by  italics.  I  have  supplied  some  marks 
of  punctuation  in  the  interlinear,  but  the  language  itself  is  in  no 
way  varied.  Those  parts  of  the  text  which  I  cannot  make  out  with 
certainty  are  shown  in  the  interlinear  by  dots.  I  shall  speak  of 
them  in  detail ;  and  for  the  sake  of  reference  I  have  numbered  the 

lines. 

1.  testamento     rech      M- 

Testamento  retx     Mathalena 

2.  rixq^l   d!   hematez    camenac 

rizaqil     .   .  .  Hemandex       kamenaq. 

3.  cey  cabay  Dios  hauabeh   Dios  caholbeh    Dios    fpu  sancto 

S€       zkabS,  i    Dios        awabej,         Dios       kajolbej,        Dios  Espiritu  santo 

4.  ta  in  tic  quib  vi  in  testamento  retal  rahom  in  chol  y  chum  in  chol 

ta  in       tikib      b!   in    testamento      retal      rajom     in    txol,      xtxum     in    txol, 

5.  chirixc   le    vech    chirixc  chic   vi    in   canabahem    nac    quin 

txi    rixk      le    gwetx,      txi    rizk      txik      b!     in       kanabahem         naq        in 

6.  chi     came  =    hun    pot     hu     ca    caib     y    miifa     chi      uxc 

txi         kamq.  Jun       p(tot,      jun      kfl,      kflib       i        misa        txi        uxq 

7.  chinbehen   —    hun  uec      hoob    y   tosto    on    que    oxib    y 

tx'  in  behen.  Jun  .  .  .  ,  Sob        i      toston      o'n       ke,       oxib       i 

8.  mifla      chi  uxc       chinbehe      chi  rixc       ruquin       ar      chielc 

misa  txi  uxq  tx'  in  behen        txi  rixk ;  rukin  ...  txi  elq 

9.  y   cantela    ru  quineb  p!   hoob  an  chal    y   misfa  nan  tzama 

i      candela ;        rukin       ib    pe      dob  antxal         i       misa     na  'n    tsama. 


274  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

10.  ma  xic    an  chal    ce    rochoch    y    Dios    le   hal    ruqn 

.  .  .  zik         antxal         s€        rotxotx         i      Dios       le     hal       nikin 

11.  hu     ach      capupul       hu       hacha      caib      mifTa     matiuma 

jun      ...  ...  jun  .  .  .  k&ib  misa  .  .  . 

12.  chirixc   hu   bech   cha  ^ah  .  .    9*u   y    bailom    cha    a    yah 

txi  rixk     juD     gwetz     txan     .  .  .  Juan     x  ...  txan     a      yaj. 

13.  hkiohl    hunyocote     chich     chi     re  cha     a     luis    Cal     racah 

Gwan  arwin  jun  yokotS  txitx         txi         retxan       a     Luis    Q&al,        .  .  . 

14.  vacunac         chacayah        hunyocote       chich      chi  re      cha 

...       ,  txank  a  yaj.  Jun  yokotS  txitx  txi         retxan 

15.  JQ     yat  vi   hovi   y  chac   raby  bahilom  nac  ocamc  chaayah 

Juan  Yat    bT,     jOgwI     xtxaqrab  x  ...        naq    o  kamk,    txan  a  yaj. 

16.  hun  acha  ca    pupul    chi   re  cha    luis   Cal   cha  ayah 

Jun      txi        retxan       Luis  Q&al,    txan     a  yaj. 

17.  Balthafar    ^a«*illi^    ju    chic   cha  c  precarabi    chac 

Balthasar  .  .  .  Jun     txik     txank  ...      ,      txank 

18.  ayah  Vcmno         ju  ah  quinam  xiyab  neb 

a  yaj.  .  .  .  Jun  aj      kinam      xiyab  '  .  .eb 

19.  chi  quehec  hQ  acha  ca  pupul  chi  quehec  rech  cha  ayah 

txi       keheq      jun    ...  ...       txi       keheq       retx,    txan  a  yaj. 

20.  hunca  xa  chi  re  cha  vi  jii  yat  vany  <jerosohil  chaayah 

Jun     caja      txi      retxan    hlJuanYvX^  gwan     x-ctrrojo-Wf    txan  a  yaj. 

21.  hQ  caxa  mahi  y  ce  rosohil  chi  re  cha  luis  Cal  cha  ayah  

Jun    cajay     majl        x-cerrojo-W^       txi     retxan    Luis  Q&al,  txan  a  yaj. 

22.  huntepic       chi       re      chanluis      cal       cha       ayah      


Jun  tep  ik  txi  retxan     Luis      QSaI,       txan  a  yaj. 

23.  hunpat  in  pot  van  chicaz  ruqui  ju  y[obUteniied]z  laheb  y  tomin 

Jun  ...   in   p5ot  gwan  txi  kas     nikin  Juan  Yats,  lajeeb    i    tumin 

24.  chicacao   bahxa  tac  cal    rahlaq^   y   bahilO   ixcabha   ^V^    hu 

txi  kakaw,   gwaqxaq    taq    kal     rajlankil, ...  ...     Jun 

V [erased] ach 

gwakatx 

25.  o  cacruq^n  gafpar  tQ     uccal  chin  to  hac  vi  chac    acal  chic 

o  kamk  nikin    Caspar  Tun,  gwuq  kal  tx'  in  toj     &q    bT,  txank  ;   ox  kal    txik, 

26.  y  tzac  tzi  hotuc  achal  chi  cacao  ox  petet  chic  in  noc 

xtsaq      tsl;    dtuk       antxal     txi    kakaw.  Ox     petet     txik     in    noq, 


burkitt]     a  KEKCHl  WILL  OF  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY        2/5 


27.  vena     quin 


29 


y     quirac     chin     qe 

naq  in    txi        kiraq        tx'  in      kem 

in      choch 

in         txotx 

camicas  I  tul 


gwey 

28.  havt     le 

A  ut       le 

vauib    I 

gwawim ;     granadillas^      tul, 


mac 

&q, 


cha 

txan 


ayah 

ayaj. 


p*     cheb     echanc      ruquin      anchal 

p€       tx'  eb        etxanq  rukin  antxal 

o    I    pata,   I    turazno  |   coyou     tern 

o,  pata,  duraznOf         koyow,         tern. 

30.  Com    vech   chi    ru   ch  y   dios  ruquin    in  bahilom    camenac 

Kamk     gwetx      txi         nitx       i     Dios^      rukin         in        ...  kamenaq, 

31.  cha  ayah        chi  ruch  eb  mathalena  chi  ruch  eb  ah  valebc 

txan     a  yaj       [above  struck  out]        Mathalena ;     txi    rutx    €h   aj-gwalebj 

32.  atts      regi tores     y   cana   vinaql      y      ratin     ayah     chiruch 

•  •  •  f      regidores,  xkanagwinaqil  i  ratin        a  yaj,        txi   rutx 

33.  luis   Cal    Cana    vinac    ex     quin   tziba    y    ratin    <;e     martes 

Luis  QSal.      Kanagwinaq  ix        k'in      tsiba        i      ratin      si        martts, 

chi  9a  oxib  y  y   be  y  po  te  ciempre  mil  y  qui   ni  entos  y 


34 


35. 


txi    s&      oxib     i        xbe 

ocheta  y  tres  anbs 

ochenta     y     tres    aHos, 


i     po        diciembre^      mil   y         quinientos         y 


oni£rftji4or 

or  ceo  'ma.'jof 
fo»r»o 


Gonzalo 

.  .  .  Inis 

Oxib  regidor. 

Merez  .  .  . 

de  Guzman 

.  .  .  alguacil  mayor. 

•      •      • 

Lorenzo  mayor- 

Juan  MendeZy 

domo. 

aj-tsib. 

Lines  i  and  2,  which  I  have  placed  as  a  heading,  are  scribbled 
on  the  back  of  the  original. 

Testamento  .  .  .  kamenaq,  '  Testament  of  Mathalena  [Magda- 
lena],  wife  of  Hernandez,  deceased.' 

di  herndtes.  The  first  word  must  be  short  for  something  Span- 
ish, d  not  being  an  Indian  sound.     In  adopting  Spanish  words, 


2/6  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Indians  turn  d  into  /;  so  the  surname  Hernandez  is  written  with  a 
/  to  imitate  Indian  pronunciation. 

3,  Se  xkaba  .  .  .  Santo,  *  In  the  name  of  God  the  Father,  God 
the  Son,  and  God  the  Holy  Ghost' 

cey  cabay.  In  neither  case  does  the  final  y  belong  to  the  word 
to  which  it  is  joined ;  the  first  represents  the  possessive  prefix  x,  to 
be  joined  to  kaba  ;  the  second  is  the  proclitic  i.  See  remarks  (4) 
on  the  spelling. 

Dios,  Indians  say  '  Tiox^ ;  and  it  is  commonly  supposed  that 
Tiox  is  a  corruption  of  Dios.  This  may  be  doubted.  The  same 
word  sometimes  means  *  pupil '  (of  the  eye).  Tiox  also  appears  in 
the  vocable  bantiox  (*  thanks '),  and  is  the  base  of  tioxi{^  be  thankful 
for ').  If  the  Greeks  had  conquered  Mexico,  it  is  likely  they  would 
have  supposed  the  Aztec  Tecotl  to  be  a  corruption  of  fleic. 

fpu  sancto.  Where  the  original  uses  a  long  j,  I  copy  it.  The 
half-Latin  spelling  of  these  words,  and,  farther  on,  the  constant 
spelling  of  *  tnissa  *  for  misa,  might  be  taken  to  signify  that  the  scribe 
had  learned  his  letters  among  clerics.  The  Indian  for  *  God  the 
Spirit'  is  Tiox Musiqbej {Jmtisiq,  'breath  of). 

4,  5,  6,  ta  in  tikib  ,  ,  .  txi  kamq^  *  I  begin,  then,  my  testa- 
ment, the  record  of  my  heart's  wish,  my  heart's  desire,  respecting 
what  is  mine,  respecting  too  what  I  have  to  leave  when  I  die.' 

4,  ta  in.  So  also  in  the  Cajabon  MS.  Modem  speech  would 
elide  the  a^  making  fin. 

retal  rajom  in  Ixol.  An  Indian  rendering  of  the  previous 
Spanish  word,  a  practice  frequent  in  the  old  compositions  called 
'  parlamentos.' 

5,  6.  in  txi  kamq.  This  arrangement  is  now  seldom  heard,  the 
txi  being  fully  assimilated  to  an  index  of  tense,  and  put  first :  tx'  in 
kamq. 

In  the  spelling  nac  quin,  of  the  original,  the  qu  is  merely  a  false 
repetition  of  the  final  palatal  of  naq.     Cf.  tic  quib  for  tikib^  lipe  4. 

6,  7.  Jun  pooty  .  ,  .  tx'  in  behen,  *  A  shirt,  and  a  grinding- 
stone  [are  to  pay  for]  two  masses  to  be  performed  on  my  behalf.' 
Poot  is  the  short,  loose  shirt,  without  sleeves,  which  is  the  upper 
garment  of  the  women.  It  is  of  white  cotton  among  these  Indians, 
and  frequently  embroidered  with  colors. 


BURKiTT]    A  kekchI  will  of  the  sixteenth  centur  y      277 

7,  8.  Jun  \uuq  f\ ,  dob  ...  txi  rixk.  *  A  [skirt  ?]  —  five 
tostones  I  gave  [for  it]  —  [is  to  pay  for]  three  masses  to  be 
performed  for  me  afterward.' 

uec.  Such  appears  to  be  the  spelling,  but  no  such  word  is 
known.  It  has  been  proposed  to  read  gwex  (trousers) ;  but  I  can- 
not think  the  last  letter  a  miswritten  x;  besides  the  price,  five 
tostones,  would  be  too  much.  Tostbn  was  the  old  half-dollar.  I 
think  the  word  must  be  uuq,  'skirt.'  Among  these  Indians  the 
skirt  is  a  dark  blue.  It  may  be  very  voluminous.  A  well-off 
woman  wears  as  much  as  ten  yards. 

8,  9.  ru%in  .  .  .  candela,  *  Therewith  candles  are  to  go ' ; 
i.  e.,  with  the  masses.  This  at  least  is  one  rendering,  and  perhaps 
the  best.  It  supposes  that  the  word  which  seems  to  be  written  ar 
is  meant  for  the  third  personal  pronoun  an,  enclitic  to  rukin, 

cantela  for  candela.  See  note  on  herndtez,  line  2.  An  Indian 
word  for  candle  is  Htsuuj,  though  not  much  used  in  that  sense. 

9,  ru^in  eb  pe  dob  .  .  .  hama.  *  So,  with  them,  I  ask  for  five 
additional  masses.'  That  is,  with  the  first  two  masses  and  the 
subsequent  three  she  gets  the  total  of  five ;  *  additional,'  I  suppose 
is  meant,  to  the  regular  office  of  the  dead. 

pe.  This  particle  occurs  again,  on  line  28  ;  and  both  times  it  is 
so  written  as  to  look  like  an  abbreviation,  which  it  is  not.  I  have 
rendered  pe  here  by  the  introductory  *  so.'  Better,  perhaps,  would 
be  our  *  you  see ' :  '  With  them,  you  see,  I  ask  for  five,'  etc.  These 
particles  pe  and  Hi  (especially  pe)  are  out  of  place  in  a  prepared 
statement  or  monologue ;  they  belong  to  conversation.  The  use 
of  them  is  evidence  that  the  will  was  not  a  prepared  statement,  but 
pieced  together  on  the  spot  with  fragments  of  talk ;  and  not  very 
coherently  pieced,  either,  as  further  reading  shows.  Throughout 
this  paragraph  (lines  7-9)  the  punctuation,  and  in  some  degree  the 
sense,  have  been  matter  of  dispute.  I  have  given  what  seems  to 
me  the  most  natural. 

ID,  II)  12.  These  three  lines  present  such  a  disposition  of 
doubtful  or  unrecognizable  words  that  hardly  the  drift  of  the  mean- 
ing can  be  guessed.  In  the  original,  these  lines  are  in  a  handwriting 
which  is  notably  different  from  that  of  the  rest,  and  some  have  sup- 
posed a  different  writer. 


2/8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

10.  ma  xik.  There  is  a  particle  of  negation,  ma  ;  but  no  such 
construction  as  ma  xik.  The  least  unlikely  guess  I  can  offer  is  that 
ma  should  be  read  na,  the  present-tense  index,  which  makes  things 
intelligible  as  far  as  hal :  Na  xik  antxal .  ,  ,  le  hal^  '  The  com  also 
goes  to  the  house  of  God  * ;  i.  e.,  to  the  church,  doubtless  to  pay 
for  the  masses  mentioned  in  the  next  line.  The  proceeding  would 
be  nothing  unusual. 

ruqn^  short  for  writing  ruqiiin,  as  again  on  line  25,  where  the 
abbreviation  mark  is  written.  The  context  of  rukin  is  as  doubtful 
as  everything  else  here.  I  should  incline  to  put  a  pause  after  hal^ 
and  perhaps  translate  ruki7i  by  '  therewith,'  referring  to  the  com  as 
a  means  of  payment  This  is  one  of  the  places  where  it  is  easy  to 
suspect  something  missing,  with  the  scribe's  attention  divided  be- 
tween his  ear  and  his  pen. 

11.  ach  capupuL  This  mysterious  phrase  is  the  great  crux 
of  the  will.  It  occurs  again  on  line  16,  and  again  on  line  19; 
but  with  slight  variations :  acha  instead  of  ach^  and  ca  separated 
from  pupuL  ca  might  be  qa  (our) ;  but  more  likely  is  kA  (two). 
pupul  has  all  the  appearance  of  a  noun  formed  on  a  base  pup, 
like  lukul  from  luk,  tupul  from  tup,  etc.;  but  my  inquiries  and 
those  of  others  have  failed  to  elicit  any  pup  or  pupul  from  the 
speech  of  the  day.  Possibly  the  word  might  be  recovered  from 
the  Cajabon  MS.  One  Indian  thought  the  word  should  be  tupul, 
in  the  sense  of  '  piece,'  '  portion  ; '  but  the  spelling  is  plainly  pupul, 
thrice  over. 

As  for  ach,  or  cu:ha,  to  most  readers  it  immediately  suggests 
the  Spanish  hacha.  But  if  an  *  axe '  was  meant,  why  say  it  in 
Spanish?  Indians  always  use  their  own  word,  mdl,  and  so  does 
everybody,  talking  Indian.  Another  suggestion  is  that  the  word  is 
still  the  Spanish  hacha,  but  in  the  sense  of  'torch,'  or  'great 
candle,'  used  in  church  processions,  etc.,  and  perhaps  to  be  used  in 
the  kdib  misa,  '  two  masses,'  which  are  now  in  question.  But  then 
this  meaning  is  not  suitable  to  the  context  in  lines  16  and  19.  The 
only  thing  in  Indian,  I  know  of,  that  ach  could  be,  is  the  root  atx, 
found  in  atxab,  '  slacken,'  '  let  go ' ;  but  there  is  no  help  in  this. 

hu  hacha.  Last  letter  probably  a,  though  it  looks  more  like  ;/ 
in  the  original.     These  words  may  be  a  repetition  of  the  ////;/  ach. 


BURKITT]     A  KEKCHf  WILL  OF  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY        2/9 

or  hun  acha,  already  discussed.  But  the  initial  h,  of  hacha,  may  be 
for  j\  and  we  might  read  jun  jatx  a  kaib  tnisa^  *  a  half  of  the  two 
masses.'  Jatx,  'fraction/  especially  'half;  a,  the.  This  would 
suggest  that  elsewhere  the  word  acA  should  be  Aach,  i.  ^,,jatx\  and 
we  should  understand  the  meaning  to  be  that  the  com,  above  men- 
tioned, and  the  other  articles  farther  on  (lines  i6,  19)  are  to  be  ap- 
portioned between  the  two  beneficiaries. 

ma  tiuma.  Such  appear  to  be  the  letters.  No  meaning.  The 
context  seems  to  indicate  a  verb.  We  might  therefore  suppose  ma 
to  be  na,  as  in  the  case  of  ma  xik  on  line  10.  As  for  tiuma,  perhaps 
a  final  n  is  suppressed  without  mark,  as  happens  elsewhere ;  we 
should  then  have  the  ending  -man,  of  the  gerundive ;  and  so  finally 
evolve  something  like  na  tiwman,  '  it  is  to  be  eaten '  {tnv,  *  bite,* 
*  eat ').  But  the  meaning  *  eat '  does  not  fit,  unless  it  referred  to  the 
com,  and  in  that  case  the  word  would  not  be  tiw,  but  ^ux, 

12.  txi  rixk  Jun  gwetx,  *  after  one  for  me ' ;  meaning,  apparently, 
'  after  one  mass  for  me.'  But  the  translation  might  be  varied,  putting 
a  pause  after  rixk. 

cAd  yah.  The  first  letter  of  the  second  word  looks  like  an  r  with 
an  accidental  *  tail ' ;  or  it  may  be  a  misshapen  y.  If  y^  then  the 
word  is  yaj\  *  sick ' ;  and  we  must  assume  the  omission  of  the  article 
' a'  Xo  complete  the  oft-recurring  phrase  txan  ayaj\  'says  the  sick 
(one),'  meaning,  of  course,  the  testatrix.  If  this  reading  is  accepted, 
then  yaj  ends  the  sentence.  The  two  dots  which  follow  are  evi- 
dently intentional,  and  may  be  meant  to  mark  a  period,  though  no 
other  period  is  so  marked. 

^U  y  bailom.  The  first  letter  cannot  be  a  capital  G,  but  is  a 
capital  I  or  J,  begun  with  a  flourish.  Both  Juan  and  jun  are  else- 
where contracted  to  ju.  Here  the  word  is  doubtless  Juan,  the 
christian  name  of  the  person  termed  bailom. 

The  latter  word,  with  the  spelling  baAilom,  occurs  three  times 
again.  From  line  1 5  it  is  seen  that  baAilom  denoted  a  person,  de- 
ceased, whose  directions  about  some  property  are  confirmed  by  the 
testatrix.  And  from  line  30  it  is  plain  that  her  baAilom  was  one 
whose  memory  she  cherished.  We  know  from  the  outset  that  she 
is  the  relict  of  one  Hernandez.  The  conclusion  is  natural  that 
ba{ft)ilom  somehow  represents  the  word  belom,  *  husband.'     I  can- 

AM.  AMTH.,  H.  S.,  7. — 19 


280  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

not  believe  that  bahUom  has  been  transmuted  into  belotn  since  the 
time  of  the  will.  The  change  would  be  too  great,  and  without  a 
known  parallel.  All  I  can  suggest  is  that  bahUom  may  have  been 
a  collateral  variant  of  the  word,  but  confined  to  local  use  and  now 
obsolete. 

txan  a  yaj\  *  says  the  sick  (woman).'  Here  the  strange  hand- 
writing ceases,  and  I  put  a  period.  On  the  whole,  the  thing 
seems  to  mean  that  two  more  masses  are  to  be  said,  for  the  woman, 
perhaps,  or  for  her  late  husband  John  (Hernandez) ;  and  paid  for 
in  com. 

13.  ^wan  arwin  .  .  .  a  Luis  Qda/,  *  There  is  here  an  iron 
mattock,  to  be  owned  by  Lewis  Caal.' 

bdo)  In,  Here  ba  =  ban  =  gwan.  See  remarks  (i  and  6)  on 
the  spelling.  The  will  writes  no  accents,  and  the  mark  which  looks 
like  one  is  an  abbreviation-mark  tilted  up ;  hence  bi  =  bin  ;  but  no 
Indian  word  at  all  suitable  ends  in  -bin.  The  b  must  then  be  read 
«/,  or  £^  ;  the  hieroglyphic  which  looks  like  the  Greek  omega  must 
somehow  represent  the  letters  or ;  hence,  finally,  arwin  or  argwin^ 
an  obsolescent  variant  of   of  in, 

retxan.     The  usual  form  now  would  be  retxa, 

a  Luis  Qdal,  The  use  of  the  semi-demonstrative  a  shows  that 
Lewis  Caal  was  actually  present ;  as  in  fact  is  stated  further  on 
(line  33). 

13,  14.  racah  vacunac,  *  son  of  my  eldest  son.'  At  least,  this 
is  the  best  interpretation  offered.  It  supposes  that  racah  is  meant 
for  reqaj^  '  substitute  of,'  frequently  used  in  the  sense  of  '  son  of,' 
indicating  in  all  likelihood  that  the  father  is  dead.  As  for  vacunac, 
it  appears  that  in  Pokomchi  there  is  a  word  guacunac,  meaning 
*  my-eldest-son ' ;  and  the  word  was  perhaps  current  at  the  time, 
in  whatever  part  of  the  Kekchi  country  the  will  was  written.  There 
is  no  such  word  now  in  Kekchi. 

The  use  of  certain  forms  {se  for  sa^  fu^n  for  ji^in,  jetx  for  fe) 
indicate  that  the  will  was  written  either  in  Carcha  or  in  the  neigh- 
boring village  of  Chamelco  ;  more  likely  the  latter.  The  Chamelco 
district,  which  is  not  large,  lies  between  Carcha  and  the  Xukaneb 
mountains,  next  to  the  Pokom  country.  The  church  is  the  oldest 
in  these  parts,  and  has  a  chime  of  bells  said  to  be  the  gift  of  no  less 


BURKITT]     A  KEKCHJ  WILL  OF  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY        28 1 

a  person  than  the  emperor  Charles  V.  A  fantastic  effigy  of  the 
Austrian  eagles  is  still  apparent  on  the  wall.  As  the  emperor 
abdicated  in  1556,  the  church  would  have  been  built  at  least  27 
years  before  the  writing  of  the  will.  There  is  therefore  nothing 
wonderful  in  finding  an  old  Indian  woman  the  **  widow  "  of  a  Span- 
ish colonist,  and  the  Indians  already  baptized  with  christian  names. 
14,  15.  Junyokote  .  .  .  txan  ayaj.  '  One  iron  mattock  John  Yat 
is  to  own,  as  was  the  command  of  her  [husband  ?]  when  he  died, 
quoth  the  sick  (woman).'  The  Indian  txaji^  like  the  English 
*  quoth,'  is  supposed  to  report  a  speaker's  own  terms.  Hence,  if 
ba/ulotn  means  '  husband,'  we  should  expect  *  in  bahilotn*  '  my  hus- 
band,' as  we  do  find  in  line  30.  But  both  here  and  on  lines  12  and 
24  we  find  y  ba(K)Uom,  *  her  husband '  (the^  being  for  the  possessive 
prefix  X,  of  the  3rd  person).  This  confusion  of  'her'  and  *my' 
may  be  an  oversight  on  the  part  of  the  scribe ;  yet  it  is  an  over- 
sight which  could  not  occur  in  speech,  and  the  scribe  makes  the 
blunder,  it  seems,  only  in  connection  with  bahilom. 

16.  txi  retxan  .  .  .  a  yaj\  *  let  Lewis  Caal  have  it,  says  the  sick ; ' 
'  it '  being  whatever  is  meant  by  /tun  acha  ca  pupul  (see  note  on  line 
u). 

17.  Here  follows  the  signature  of  one  Balthasar,  whose  sur- 
name appears  as    ^a**  •  Hi^,  ending  with  what  seems  to  be  a  j/ 

scratched  out,  and  es  written  above  it.  The  initial  letter  is  like  a 
d,  Greek  fashion.  There  is  no  such  surname  in  Indian ;  nor  in 
Casdlian  either,  that  I  know  of.  It  has  a  Valentian  or  Catalonian 
look. 

Below  this  name  are  the  letters  emno^  preceded  by  what  looks 
like  the  arithmetical  sign  of  square  root.  This  hieroglyphic  I  take 
to  be  a  capital  T,  and  the  whole  an  abbreviation  of  TesHtnonio^  which 
in  old  Spanish  was  sometimes  used  to  mean  testigo  (*  witness '). 
A  line  is  drawn  about  signature  and  all.  It  is  evident  from  the 
space  occupied  that  the  thing  was  not  squeezed  in  afterward,  but 
written  then  and  there,  before  the  document  went  further.  The 
witness  perhaps  could  not  wait,  and  signed  his  name  at  the  stage 
then  reached ;  an  irregularity  quite  in  keeping  with  the  style  of  the 
instrument. 


282  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Jun  txik,  txanky  '  Another,  says  (she).' 

precarabi.  Mere  gibberish ;  .yet  the  spelling  seems  clear,  pr 
is  not  an  Indian  sequence  of  consonants.  There  must  be  some- 
thing wrong,  or  something  missing.  The  sentence  ends  at  once, 
with  the  repetition  of  txank  a  yaj\  *  says  the  sick.' 

18.  Jun  of  kinam  xiyab^  *  a  single  kinam  (-wood)  comb.'  This 
does  not  fit  the  following  plural,  eb :  eb  txi  'keheq,  *  let  them  be 
given.' 

neb^  I  read  eb,  I  cannot  understand  the  initial  »,  unless  it  be  a 
miswritten  A,  silent,  eb  txi  "kekeq^  modem  style  tx'  eb  ^eheq ;  cf.  in 
txi  kamqy  line  5. 

19.  hu  acha  ca  pupul.     See  notes  on  lines  1 1  and  1 6. 

txi  %eheq  retx,  txan  a  yaj\  *be  it  given  to  him,  says  the  sick.' 
To  whom  ?  Again  the  legatee's  name  is  omitted.  Both  on  this 
line  and  the  preceding  it  is  evident  the  sentences  are  mangled. 

20.  Jun  caja  .  .  .  yaj,  •  One  box  let  John  Yat  possess,  that  has 
a  lock,  says  the  sick  (woman).' 

coxa  =  caja.  X  and  7  were  used  alike  in  Castilian.  The  mod- 
em guttural  j  was  hardly  known  in  Castile  before  the  end  of  the 
XVIth  century,  and  was  not  general  in  the  colonies  till  the  end  of 
the  XVIIth.  To  the  Indians  a  box  was  evidently  a  foreign  contri- 
vance. To  this  day  the  word  they  use  is  a  corruption  of  caja  or  of 
cajbn, 

ge  rosohil,  A  corruption  of  the  Span,  cerrojo,  with  the  addition 
of  the  Indian  "appropriating"  termination,  -//.  As  an  index  to  the 
scribe's  proficiency,  note  that  the  c  has  a  needless  cedilla ;  as  again 
on  line  33. 

21.  Jun  caja,  tnajl  .  .  .  yaj,  *  One  box,  no  lock  to  it,  let  Luis 
Caal  possess,  says  the  sick.' 

maji.  Modern  style  would  say  mdka,  Maji,  nowadays,  means 
*  not  yet,'  excepting  in  one  or  two  expressions,  like  Txan  naq  niaji  ? 
'  Why  not '  ?  The  Cajabon  manuscript  also  uses  majl  as  a  simple 
negative,  without  connotation  of  time. 

22.  Jun  tep  ,  .  .  yaj.  '  A  chile  field,  let  Lewis  Caal  have  it, 
says  the  sick  (one).' 

Lines  23-27  are  parenthetical ;  they  enumerate  certain  assets, 
but  make  no  bequests.     It  will  be  seen  that  these  lines  are  sepa- 


BURKiTT]      A  KEKCHl  WILL  OF  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY        283 

rated  from  the  rest  by  a  couple  of  scratches,  or  dashes,  reaching 
into  the  margin. 

23.  Jun  pat  in  poot  .  .  .  yah,  '  One  pat  of  shirting  of  mine 
is  on  debt  with  John  Yats/  as  we  should  say,  *  on  credit ' ;  he  owes 
her  for  the  stuff.  The  woman,  as  we  see  further  on,  was  a  weaver. 
With  the  Indians,  weaving  is  a  business  of  women  ;  sewing  and  tail- 
oring a  business  of  men,  even  to  the  embroidering  of  womens'  shirts 
(poot).     John  Yats  may  have  been  the  tailor. 

pat.  All  that  is  clear  is  that  this  was  some  unit,  in  speaking  of 
shirt-cloth.  Some  have  wished  to  read  pac,  and  render  '  a  cut  of 
shirting,'  etc.  But  the  spelling  pat  is  plain.  There  is  a  fossil  word 
pat,  whose  proper  meaning  is  uncertain,  the  word  occurring  only  in 
the  vocable  j'unpat,  ox  jumpat,  *a  moment,'  'quickly,'  etc. 

Yah,  In  the  original,  the  surname  begins  with  Y  and  ends  with 
with  z,  the  middle  of  the  word  being  obliterated.  There  would  be 
room  for  about  two  letters ;  and  Yah  (or,  as  the  scribe  would  spell 
it,  Yatz)  is  the  only  surname  that  fits. 

23,  24.  lajeeb  .  .  .  rajlankil ;  [worth]  'ten  silver  (pieces)  in 
cacao,  reckoning  them  eight  score  each.'  The  shirt-cloth,  in  other 
words,  is  valued  at  ten  pieces-of-eight ;  the  piece-of-eight,  or  silver 
dollar,  being  reckoned,  in  cacao,  as  equal  to  eight  score  seeds. 
The  real  was  therefore  worth  a  score.  Cacao  must  have  been 
scarce  or  silver  plenty.  A  few  years  ago,  before  silver  money  dis- 
appeared, the  rate  was  two  score  for  a  real^  and  old  men  tell  of  its 
being  even  four  score. 

gwaqxaq.  In  the  original,  written  bahxa  /  ^  =  gw ;  the  //  is 
due  to  mistaking  q  ior  j ;  and  the  final  palatal  is  missing  —  slurred 
over  by  effect  of  the  following  /,  of  taq, 

rajlankil ;  written  rahldq* ;  the  second  contraction-mark  tilted 
up,  as  on  lines  13  and  25. 

y  bahild,  i.  e.,  xbahilom  (see  remarks  on  bahilom,  lines  12  and 
15).  No  connection  is  traceable  between  this  and  what  goes 
before.  As  for  the  following  ixcabha,  all  I  can  say  is  that  it  does 
not  contain  xkabd  (his,  her,  its,  name),  nor  xkab  (*  secondly '),  nor 
anything  else  that  might  be  fancied  beginning  with  the  possessive 
prefix  X,  as  the  scribe jinvariably  writes^  for  that  x. 

The  next  thing  on  this  line  (24)  is  an  unintelligible  sign  which 


284  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7, 1905 

has  some  likeness  to  capital  upsilon,  standing  on  what  is  perhaps 
one  of  the  usual  dashes  marking  a  period. 

24,  25.  Jun  gwdkatx  .  .  .  txank,  'A  turkey  of  mine  which 
died  at  Caspar  Tun's,  seven  score  Til  pay  [for  it],  said  he*  — 
meaning  seven  score  of  cacao.  It  is  common  to  lend  birds  for 
breeding. 

gwakatx.  In  the  original,  begins  with  v  (=  gw)  and  ends  with 
ach^  the  intervening  letters  being  obliterated ;  there  would  be  room 
for  two. 

gwuq  %al.  The  original  writes  uccal^  which  most  readers  took 
for  tikal  (*  earthen  pot '),  but  an  earthen  pot  would  be  no  adequate 
payment  for  a  turkey ;  besides  there  is  no  determining  word,  such 
as  jun  (a,  one),  before  uccal.  Others  have  read  0  ial  (five  score), 
turning  the  u  into  0.  There  can  be  no  doubt  about  the  truth  of  my 
reading  ;  the  u  means  gwu  ; — g^  as  usual,  is  not  recognized  before 
the  sound  of  w.  The  sequence  wu  is  not  Spanish,  and  a  Spaniard 
is  very  apt  to  reduce  it,  in  writing,  to  a  mere  u.  gwuq  Hal  also 
accounts  for  the  cc  of  uccal.  And  last,  but  not  least,  the  meaning 
*  seven  score  '  makes  sense  of  the  remainder. 

25,  26.  ox  Hal .  .  .  kakaw.  *  Three  score  more,  price  of  dog  — 
200  additional  of  cacao.'  The  Caspar  Tun  debt,  of  7  score  and  3 
score,  makes  200  of  cacao,  additional  to  that  owed  by  John  Yats. 

ox  Hal,  In  the  original,  the  initial  hieroglyphic,  which  is  said  to 
resemble  the  algebraic  sign  of  variation,  must  be  a  sort  of  mono- 
gram of  ox. 

xisaq  hi.  Dogs  and  puppies,  even  the  most  wretched  curs, 
have  a  price,  and  are  not  given  away  by  Indians,  but  sold. 

26,  27.  Ox  petet  ...  a  yaj,  *  Three  spindles  (-full)  more  of 
cotton  I  have,  (which)  in  case  that  I  get  well  I  mean  to  weave,  says 
the  sick  (one).*  —  The  ruling  passion  strong  in  death. 

gwey,  represented  in  the  original  by  ve, 

naq,  like  the  English  'that,'  is  here  superfluous. 

in  txi  Hiraq.  Modern  style,  tx*  in  Hiraq.  Cf.  in  txi  kamq 
(lines  5,  6),  and  eb  txi  Heheq  (line  19).  There  can  be  little  doubt 
that  the  y  of  the  original  represents  txi  in  the  present  instance. 
There  was  frequent  confusion  of  the  letters  y,  i,  and  x. 

28,  29.  A  ut .  .  .  tern.     *  And  as  for  my  land,  why,  let  them 


BURKiTT]      A  KEKCHI  WILL  OF  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY        285 

possess  [it  ?] ,  together  also  with  my  plantation  ;  granadUlas,  plan- 
tains, alligator-pears,  guavas,  peaches,  koyaws,  tents,* 

*  le  in^  modern  /'  in^  eliding  the  vowel  of  the  article. 

pe^  *  why '  or  *  well/  etc.     See  note  on  pi,  line  9. 

etxanq.  If  there  is  nothing  wrong  with  this  word,  it  would  be 
proper  to  supply  retx,  answering  here  to  the  English  *  it'  Here 
again,  as  in  line  19,  the  instrument  omits  to  name  the  beneficiaries ; 
doubtless  John  Yat  and  Lewis  Caal. 

gwawitn.  Written  vauib.     Final  b  and  tn  are  easily  confounded. 

camicas.  Corruption  of  granadUlas,  a  fruit  I  know  only  under 
its  Spanish  name. — turazno,  t  for  d. — koyow,  tern ;  I  have  no  Euro- 
pean names  for  them.  —  The  names,  except  the  last  two,  are  sep- 
arated in  the  original  by  vertical  scratches,  meant  as  commas. 

30-33.  Kamk  gwetx . . .  Luis  Qdaly  *  I  am  about  to  die  before 
God,  with  my  dead  [husband  ?] ,  says  the  sick  (one)  Magdalen ;  in 
presence  of  their  worships  [attesting?],  regidores,  witnesses  to  the 
words  of  the  sick,  in  presence  of  Luis  Caal.' 

Kamk,  written  Com,  Final  k  not  distinguished  from  the  follow- 
ing g\  o  ^  miswritten  a. 

bahUom,  See  under  lines  12  and  15. 

31.  chi  ruch  eb  is  scratched  out,  the  first  time,  to  put  in  the 
woman's  name.  — ah  valebc ;  the  final  c  should  bey.  For  a  contrary 
mistake  see  line  24. 

32.  atts.  A  person  acquainted  with  law  papers  of  the  period 
might  know  what  this  meant.  I  suppose  it  is  an  abbreviation  for 
atestados,  or  something  similar.  Cf  atto  and  att,  after  two  of  the 
signatures  below. 

regitares :  /  for  d.  But  the  imitation  of  Indian  goes  only  part 
way ;  the  plural  ending  should  be  struck  off,  as  it  is  in  '  oxib  regi- 
dor  farther  on.  Regidor  means  a  sort  of  town  officer,  like  inspector 
of  roads,  or  of  police,  of  public  works,  etc. 

xkanagwinaqil.  See  kanagwinag,  next  line.  For  the  scribe's 
abbreviation  of  the  last  syllable,  cf.  rixaqil,  line  2,  and  rajlajikil, 
line  24. 

txi  rutx  Luis  Qdal,  I  connect  this  with  what  goes  before  it,  and 
so  end  the  sentence.  This  punctuation  makes  as  good  sense  as 
any,  and  seems  to  be  authorized  by  the  capital  C  of  the  next  word. 


286  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7, 1905 

As  the  Other  legatee,  John  Yat,  is  not  mentioned  here,  it  is  probable 
he  was  not  present. 

33,  35.  Kanagwinaq  ex .  .  ,  afios,  *  Ye  are  witnesses,  I  have 
written  her  words  on  Tuesday,  upon  the  third  of  the  month  Decem- 
ber, a  thousand  and  five  hundred  and  eighty  three  years.' 

Kanagwinaq,  The  original,  Cafia  vinac^  was  long  a  puzzle. 
Some  Indians  proposed  kanajenaq  (•  remaining ')  ;  others  qajenaq 
(*  departed  *) ;  and  what  not.  I  discovered  the  word,  under  the 
form  canaguenac^  in  reading  an  old  composition  which  also  gave 
the  translation  *  testigo'  The  word  is  nearly  obsolete.  It  was  only 
lately  that  I  found  an  Indian  who  knew  it  —  a  man  from  Cajabon. 
There  is  a  similar  word  for  *  witness '  in  the  Kiche-chi. 

se  martes,  I  have  not  examined  whether  the  day  of  the  week 
agrees  or  not  with  the  rest  of  the  date. 

txi  sd.  After  txi,  the  sa  must  be  accented  ;  and  the  fact  of  its 
being  written  with  a  shows  that  it  was  accented.  Otherwise  the 
word  becomes  s'e^  in  the  style  of  the  will ;  and  also  in  the  style  of 
Carcha  and  Chamelco  to  the  present  day. 

i  xbe  i  po.  Modem  style  would  reduce  this  to  either  i  be  i  po 
(in  Cajabon),  or  ;ri^^ // /^  (Coban) ;  literally,  'the  moon's  course.' 

diciembre,  written  *  te  ciempre'  These  Indians  had  a  native 
almanac,  with  twenty  months  in  the  year ;  and  the  names  of  them 
are  still  to  be  found  in  medicine-talk. 

mil y  quinicntos,  etc.     All  this  might  as  well  have  been  Indian. 

The  signature  which  comes  first  is  Gonzalo  Meres,  The  next  I 
guess  to  be  In^s  de  Guzman,  In  the  original,  the  part  ifies  is 
underlined ;  as  for  tecuzma  I  suppose  the  /  and  the  c  to  be  meant 
as  Indian  imitations  of  d  and  g,  respectively,  as  happens  elsewhere  ; 
and  final  n  is  often  dropped ;  so  I  arrive  at  *  de  Guzman.*  The 
part  *  do  dom '  I  cannot  make  out,  though  it  looks  as  if  it  might 
somehow  involve  *  Dofla,' 

As  for  atto  and  att,  see  note  on  atts^  line  32. 

The  third  group  contains  one  Indian  word,  oxib  (three).  The 
di  before  alguazil,  is  likely  the  same  as  the  di  before  Hernandez^  in 
line  2,  q.  v.  *  lorSco '  must  be  read  Lorenzo  ;  the  c  should  have  a 
cedilla ;  cf.  the  Portuguese  spelling  Lotire^igo,  This  Lorenzo 
(*  majordomo  '  of  the  cabildo,  most  likely)  seems  to  have  signed  for 


BURKiTT]    A  kekchI  will  of  the  sixteenth  century      287 

the  three  regidores  and  for  the  alguacil  mayor.  All  the  signatures, 
of  course,  are  adorned  with  those  flourishes,  however  clumsy, 
which  these  people  consider  to  be  as  essential  as  the  name. 

Last  of  all,  at  the  bottom,  is  the  name  Juan  M6ndez^  so  I  read 
it ;  aj'isib,  *  scribe.* 

I  have  supposed  throughout  that  the  reader  is  not  new  to  the 
language.  Be  that  as  it  may,  there  will  be  interest,  and  perhaps 
help  for  him,  in  the  following  short  glossary.  It  embraces  all  the 
Indian  of  the  will  that  has  been  read  with  confidence — the  Indian 
of  the  interlinear.  Meanings  are  given  with  the  least  amount  of 
grammar ;  and  no  secondary  meanings  of  a  word  are  mentioned 
unless  they  conduce  to  the  text. 

It  is  well  to  say,  that  many  words  as  they  occur  in  speech,  or  in 
the  will,  begin  with  gw,  with  r,  or  with  x ;  and  yet  will  not  be  found 
here  under  those  headings.  When  that  happens,  those  sounds  are 
merely  inflexional  prefixes  ;  and  removing  them,  let  the  reader  look 
for  what  remains.  Thus,  not  finding  gwawint^  or  rotxotx^  or  xisaq, 
let  him  look  for  azvim,  otxotx,  isaq.  See  gwj^  r/,  and  x/,  which  I 
have  entered,  for  explanation's  sake,  as  if  they  were  separable  words, 
like  the  prefix  in. 

No  regular  derivatives  will  be  entered  independently ;  they  will 
be  noticed  each  under  the  entry  of  its  principal  part ;  although  the 
latter  may  not  be  used  in  the  will.  So  Jajlankil  will  be  found 
under  ajla,  ^ajolbej  under  l^ajol,  oxib  under  ox. 

Various  forms,  as  jajlankil^  {^(ijol^  j^abd,  jixaqily  will  be  found 
with  a  line  drawn  before  them  ;  which  signifies,  that  owing  to  the 
nature  of  their  meaning,  they  can  be  used,  in  general,  only  with  a 
possessive  prefix.  I  sometimes  speak  of  them  as  *  appropriating ' 
forms.  —  Certain  English  words  may  be  followed  by  (v.) ;  which 
means  that  they  are  to  be  taken  as  verbs,  not  as  nouns. 

Accent  will  not  be  written,  unless  in  a  few  cases  :  to  distinguish, 
for  instance,  the  tonic  sd,  belly,  etc.,  from  the  proclitic  sd,  in.  By 
accent  I  mean  capacity  for  stress.  The  Indian  syllable  of  accent  is 
always  the  last  —  often,  of  course,  the  only  syllable.  For  effects 
of  accent,  an  enclitic  word  is  the  last  syllable  to  its  principal ;  a 
proclitic,  a  first  syllable. 


288 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


a,  proclitic ;  one  of  the  two  defi- 
nite articles  (the  other  being  li  or 
le),  the^  this^  thaty  unemphatic ;  Fr. 
ce.     See  note  on  line  13. 

a,  prepositive ;  particle  of  intro- 
duction ;  may  sometimes  be  ren- 
dered by  buty  as  for,  line  28. 

aj-y  prefix  of  correlative  person, 
frequently  agent,  aj-tsib,  he  of 
writings;  seetsib. 

ajy  particle  postpositive  to  nu- 
meral expressions,  in  the  sense  of 
onlyy  just,  etc.:  jun  aj.  Just  one 
.  ,  .  ,  a  single  .  .  .,  line  18. 

ajy  ajok|  etc.,  wish,  desire  (v.). 
/ajom^appropriating  subve. ,  (one^s) 
wish,  wish  {pfY  rajom  in  txfA^  my 
hearfs  wish,  line  4. 

ajgwalebj,  person  of  worship  or 
authority,  headman,  etc. 

ajla,  ajlanky  etc.,  count,  reckon. 
/ajlankily  appropriating  instrumen- 
tal, count  {of),  reckoning  {of), 
line  24. 

akatX|  turkey. 

antxaly  postpositive,  also,  withal, 
besides,  in  cuidition,  etc. 

aq,  enclitic  ;  energizing  or  dram- 
atizing particle,  without  English 
equivalent.  Attached  to  verbs,  as  in 
lines  25  (toj&q)  and  27  (kem  &q), 
its  effect  is  to  put  the  action,  as  it 
were,  in  sight. 

arwin,  or  argwin,  obsolescent, 
the  usual  word  now  being  either 
arin  (in  Coban),  or  ahi,  here. 

&tin,  word,  speech. 

/ftwa,  or  leigweijfather  {of),  but 
only  in  figurative  senses.  [Not  con- 
nected, apparently,  with  the  ordi- 


nary gwa,  father.]  awabej,  or  ag- 
wabej,  ditto,  undetermined, /iM^r, 
ruler,  governor  of  a  country,  etc. 

awim  [irregular,  of  root  aw, 
sow  ;  cf  ajom  and  aj] ,  that  is  sown 
or  planted,  crops,  plantation.  Span. 
siembrcu. 

be^  pcUh,  rocui,  course. 

/behen  (in  Cobin  /been  or /b€n), 
top  {of).  Chiefly  in  prepositional 
phrases,  following  sa  or  tzi:  tzi 
/behen,  *  on  top  of,  ^  in  more  or  less 
figurative  senses ;  over,  above ;  on 
behalf  of  \  cf.  drip  with  gen.  tx'  in 
t>ehen|  over  me,  on  my  behalf,  line  7. 

bi|  postpositive  particle  of  re- 
sponse, real  or  constructive,  indi- 
cating assent  or  corroboration. 
May  sometimes  be  rendered  by 
'  why  yes, '  ^  tobe  sure,  *  '  then, '  etc. , 
or  oftener  perhaps  by  the  Span. 
'pues.'  ta  in  tikib  bi  .  .,  I  begin 
'  then ' .  .  .  ,  line  4.  Attempts  at 
direct  translation,  however,  are  apt 
to  be  clumsy  or  trivial.     See  p€. 

eb|  proclitic  and  enclitic;  pro- 
noun indicative  of  the  3d  pers.  pi. : 
they,  them;  but  often  to  be  ren- 
dered by  merely  pluralizing  some 
word  in  the  translation. 

el|  elk,  elq,  etc.,  go  out,  come 
out,  Sp.  salir. 

etal|  sign,  token,  record. 

/6tx  (in  Coban  /e),  primitively, 
mouth  of',  (2)  that  is  of,  for,  or 
to;  {one's)  *have\'  the  translation 
is  usually  effected  by  a  possessive 
pronoun  ;  or  by  a  preposition,  of, 
for,  to,  followed  by  a  noun  or  pro- 
noun :  gwetZy  mine ;  of  me,  to  me. 


BURKITT]     A  KEKCHi  WILL  OF  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY        289 


far  me :  retx  his  {hers^  itSy  theirs)] 
for  him,  for  .  , ,,  etc. 

etxa  [etx  +  formative  vowel  a] , 
etxank,  etzanq,  etc.,  oum,  possess: 
tzi  retxa,  /ef  him  possess  (if)  ;  in 
the  will,  tzi  retzaoi  with  n-aug- 
ment.     See  note,  line  13. 

exy  proclitic  and  enclitic ;  indic- 
ative pronoun,  2nd  pers.  pL,  ye. 

gw/,  possessive  prefix,  ist  person 
sing.,  to  names  beginning  with  a 
vowel ;  my,  etc. ;  see  in.  gwawim, 
my  plantation,  see  awim.  gwetz, 
my  ^  have,^  mine,  see  /etx.  jtin 
gwakatZi  '  one  my  turkey,^  i.  e.,  a 
turkey  of  mine, 

gwan,  predicate  of  passive  being, 
as  yo  is  of  active  being ;  existing,  in 
being,  present,  situated  somewhere 
or  somehow.  Translation  usually 
involves  some  part  of  the  verb  be  : 
gwan  arwin  jtin  yokotC,  {there)  is 
here  a  mattock,  line  1 3.  But  gwan 
often  disappears  in  translation ;  e.  g. 
when  followed  by  a  noun  with  a  pos- 
sessive prefix:  gwan  x-cerrojo-il, 
having  a  lock,  with  a  lock,  line  20 ; 
more  literally,  ^ {there)  is  its  lock,' 

This  predicate  gwan  is  not  to  be 
confused,  grammatically,  with  the 
verb  gwan,  gwank,  gwanq,  accom- 
panied by  indices  of  tense. 

gwaqxaq,  eight. 

gwey,  if,  in  case. 

gwiiq^  seven. 

haly  Indian  com  in  the  ear. 

iy  proclitic ;  an  early  *  construc- 
tive '  demonstrative,  similar  to  the 
definite  article,  but  now  disused, 
excepting  in  the  Cajab6n  style  or  in 


certain  traditional  phrases.  Where 
it  occurs  in  the  will,  modem  style 
would  either  drop  it  altogether  as 
superfluous,  or  replace  it  by  a  more 
specialized  form  —  U^  the  ;  or  txi, 
q.  V.  :iDio8sliDio8;ixbeipOa 
xbe  li  po ;  kaib  i  misa  »  kaib  txi 
misa  {two  *  of  masses). 

iky  chile  (peppers). 

in,  proclitic ;  denoting  possession 
by  the  ist  pers.  sing.;  my,  of  mine  : 
in  &oly  my  heart,  line  3.  When 
attached  to  a  verb,  however,  the 
possessive  prefix  is  no  longer  trans- 
lated explicitly,  but  by  means  of  the 
respective  English  pronoun:  ta 
in  tikiby  /  shall  begin  {it)  ;  more 
literally,  (//)  will  be  *  my  begin,' 
line  4.  Before  names  which  be- 
gin with  a  vowel,  in  is  replaced  by 
the  prefix  gw/,  q.  v. ;  see  also  'n. 

in  (identical  in  form,  though  not 
in  meaning,  with  the  preceding 
word ;  cf.  the  Sp.  mi,  which  means 
both  my  and  me),  proclitic  and 
enclitic  pronoun,  ist  pers.  sing.,  /, 
me :  in  txi  kamq,  line  5  ;  in  txi 
kiraqi  line  27. 

/ixaqil  [irregular  appropriating 
of  ixq,  woman"],  wife  {of). 

/ixk  (more  commonly  /ix),  skin 
{of),  exterior  {of)  ;  txi  /ixk, 
'  at  skin  of,  *  hence  outside,  behind, 
about,  respecting,  etc.  :  txi  rixk 
le  gwetx,  respecting  what  I  have, 
line  5. 

jogwi,  likewise  ;  as  also  ;  as. 

jun,  one  ;  a,  an. 

k%  for  the  aorist  index,  ki,  before 
any  proclitic  beginning  with  a  vowel. 


290 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


ka,  grinding'Stone  (for  grinding 
com). 

kki  kiiib|  /z^/^. 

/kabiiy  /lam^  (0/)  ;  sake  {of^, 

/kajoly  offspring  {of),  son'  {of), 
kajolbej,  ditto  undetermined,  son^ 
offspring,    Cf.  /awa  and  awabej. 

kakaW|  cacao, 

£al|  J^^r^  ;  OX  kaly  Mr^^  J^<7r^. 

kaniy  kamky  kamq,  etc.,  die: 
kamk  gwetz  ( *  dying  is  mine ' ) ,  / 
am  about  to  die,  line  30 ;  kame- 
naq^  dead, 

kanaby  kanabank,  etc.,  leave 
(v.);  middle  irreg.,  kana,  etc. 
kanabahem  (or  kanabaem),  ir- 
reg. appropriating  of  kanab^  that 
one  has  to  leave,  e.  g. ,  to  one's  heirs. 

kanagwinaq,  that  assures,  wit- 
ness; kanagwinaqily  ditto,  appro- 
priating, witness  (to).  See  note, 
line  33. 

kaS|  debt, 

ke,  keoky  etc. ,  give ;  put ;  pas- 
sive, ke€,  etc.,  with  q-augment 
Seeq.  keheq  for  keeq,  with  in- 
trusive h,  style  of  Carcha. 

kem,  kemok,  etc.,  weave, 

kiy  proclitic,  index  of  aorist  tense. 
See  k'.  Occasionally  Indian  uses 
the  aorist  where  English  prefers  the 
perfect,  as  in  line  33. 

kinam,  a  certain  tree,  and  its 
wood,  of  which  combs  are  made. 

kira,  kirak,  kiraq  (independent 
neuter,  though  formed  like  an  irreg. 
middle  of  the  reduplicating  conjuga- 
tion, cf.  \uJl!Bi)ygetweiiy  convalesce, 

koyow,  a  fruit-tree,  much  like  the 
alligator-pear. 


laje,  lajeeby  ten, 

le,  proclitic,  the.  This  variant  of 
11  is  now  confined,  so  far  as  I  know, 
to  Cajab6n  style.  The  Indian  def. 
art.  may  of  course  disappear  in  Eng- 
lish :  le  gwetz,  what  is  mine. 
Span,  lo  mio,  line  5  ;  le  In  tzotx, 
my  land,  ^  the  land  I  have,^  Ital. 
ii  mio  terreno,  line  28. 

maji|  not  yet ;  not.  See  note, 
line  21. 

*n,  in  Carcha  style,  for  the  pos- 
sessive in,  by  elision  of  its  vowel 
afler  the  tense  indices  na  and  o. 
Thus  na  'n  «=  na  in  ;  0  'n  s  0 
in. 

na,  proclitic,  index  of  present 
tense. 

naq,  proclitic,  when  (the  con- 
junctive adverb),  that  (conjunc- 
tion, not  the  relative  or  demonstra- 
tive pronoun),  as:  naq  in  txi 
kamq,  when  I  die,  as  I  die,  line  5. 

noq,  cotton, 

0,  (style  of  Carcha  or  Chamelco, 
and  somewhat  old-fashioned  for  x) 
proclitic,  index  of  perfect  tense. 
Indian,  like  French,  uses  the  per- 
fect incessantly,  where  English 
would  usually  have  the  aorist :  naq 
0  kamk,  Fr.  iorsqu'ii  est  mort,  but 
English,  when  he  died,  line  15. 

0,  alligator-pear.  Span,  aguacate. 

0,  ooh^five, 

Otuk,  tiao  hundred,  [The  word 
is  a  compound  of  0  and  tuk,  as  is 
proved  by  interposition  of  taq :  0- 
taq-tuk,  200  each.  The  0  is  prob- 
ably five;  but  of  the  part  tuk  there 
is  no  certain  explanation  ;  it  has  no 


BURKITT]     A  KEKCHI  WILL  OF  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY         29 1 


meaning  alone,  and  occurs  only  as 
above.] 

OtzotXi  dwelling  house,  lodge. 

OXy  oziby  three :  OX  kal,  j  score  ; 
oxib  i  misa,  3  masses,  line  7 ;  ox 
petety  J  spindlefuls  (of  cotton), 
line  26,  not  oxib  petet,  because 
here  petet  is  taken  as  a  mere  unit  of 
reckoning,  like  kal,  the  real  object 
in  mind  being  the  cotton.  In 
other  words,  the  use  of  ox,  and 
not  oxib|  implies  the  translation  of 
petet  by  *  spindleful,'  not  spindle. 
Similar  remarks  would  apply  to  0 
and  <x>by  ka  and  kaib,  laje  and  la- 
jceb,  q.  V. 

pata,  guava, 

p€,  particle  (either  postpositive 
or  prepositive)  indicating  surprise ; 
which,  however,  may  be  purely  con- 
structive. It  may  sometimes  be 
rendered  by  such  expressions  as 
'Dear  me!'  'But/'  'See/' 
'  There  now/'  '  Why/'  'So,'  etc. 
But  these  are  clumsy  and  vague. 
p€,  like  bl,  is  best  rendered  by  suit- 
able inflexion  of  the  voice ;  or  by 
a  corresponding  gesture;  with  bl, 
a  confirmatory  nod  or  toss  of  the 
head ;  with  pC,  perhaps,  raising  the 
eyebrows.     See  bi,  and  note  to  line 

9- 

petet|  spindle;  spindle fuL 

po,  moon;  lunar  month,  loosely, 
month, 

poot,  Indian  woman's  'shirt' ; 
cotton  'shirting'  for  making  it. 
See  note  on  pdot,  line  6. 

Qaal|  an  Indian  surname,  one  of 
the  commonest. 


r/,  possessive  prefix,  of  the  3rd 
person;  Span.  j«(j);  Eng.  his^ 
her,  its,  their,  as  the  case  may  be. 
rixaqily  his  wife  (see  /ixaqil), 
ratlBi  her  words  (see  &tin). 

The  possessor's  name  follows,  if 
mentioned :  rixaqil  11  gwinq,  the 
man's  wife ;  ratin  a  yaj,  words  of 
the  sick  one,  the  sick  one' s  words, 
line  32 ;  and  direct  translation  of 
the  prefix  has  to  be  abandoned.  So 
in  many  other  cases :  txl  keheq  retx 
{be  it  given,  'his  have,'  i.  e.),  be  it 
given  to  him,  line  19.  See  /etx, 
/ixky  /iiiin. 

When  the  prefix  is  attached  to 
the  stem-form  of  a  verb,  the  In- 
dian '  possessor  '  turns  up  in  trans- 
lation as  the  '  subject '  of  the 
verb:  txl  retxa(n)  a  Luis  O&al, 
let  Lewis  Caal  possess  it  (Indian 
idea :  be  it  Lewis  CaaPs  'possess'), 
Cf.  under  In. 

Before  a  consonant,  r  is  trans- 
muted into  Xy  q.  v.  The  change  is 
merely  euphonic. 

/sa,  belly  {of)  ;  hence,  inside 
{of)',\j±si  (for  txl  xsa),  on  {its) 
inside ' ,  within  {it)  ;  upon  (a  certain 
day,  line  34) .  In  modem  style  the 
full  phrase,  txl  sa,  is  used  only 
when  emphatic,  or  final  (cf.  the  Fr. 
dedans)  ;  when  the  name  of  the 
thing  follows,  txl  sa,  is  cut  down  to 
sH  alone  (Fr.  dans)  ;  thus  the  noun 
sH  becomes  a  preposition ;  and  it 
can  bear  no  emphasis.  For  this 
unaccented  sa  the  style  of  Carcha, 
and  of  the  will,  employs  the  variant 
s6,  q.  V. 


292 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


sC  (in  Cobin,  8&)  proclitic  (cf. 
Gr.  Iv),  in;  at^  otiy  etc.  If  the 
meaning  of  the  preposition  is 
to  be  emphasized,  tzl  8^  must  be 
used  instead.     See  /8&. 

ta,  proclitic,  index  of  future 
tense.  The  Indian  'future/  how- 
ever, has  a  variety  of  uses  out  of 
keeping  with  the  English  tense  of 
that  name ;  on  line  4,  <  ta  in  tikib ' 
is  better  rendered  by  an  Eng.  '  pres- 
ent ' :  /  begifiy  I  am  beginning. 

taq,  atonic  interpositive  particle, 
signifying  that  the  numeral  with 
which  it  is  combined  is  to  be  taken 
in  a  distributive  sense.  The  trans- 
lation, usually,  involves  such  words 
as '  apiece\  '  each  \  '  every\'gwBX\r 
zaq  taq  Ibd,  eight  score  each^  line 
24. 

tern,  a  certain  tree,  planted  in 
gardens  for  shade. 

tfip,  body^  lot  (of  anything); 
precinct^  field, 

tikib|  tikibanky  etc.,  begin. 
Middle,  tikia,  etc. 

toj,  tojoky  eiz.,  pay  (v.). 

ts&ma,  ts&manky  etc.,  begy  ask 
for. 

tsaq^  price,  worth. 

tsl,  dog. 

tsib,  *  scripture  *  —  writing  or 
drawing,  aj-tsib,  writer,  draughts- 
man; scribe,  especially  scrivener. 
See  aj-. 

tsiba^  tsibanky  etc.,  write ;  neu- 
ter, tsibaki  etc. 

tul,  plantain. 

tumin,  silver  ;  silverpiece  ;  money. 

Tun,  an  Indian  surname. 


tx  %  for  tzly  before  any  proclitic 
beginning  with  a  vowel. 

txan,  or  with  k-augment,  tzank, 
answers  the  purpose  of  our  ^ says\ 
*  said\  *  quoth  ';  and  like  them,  it 
immediately  follows  the  language  it 
reports.  —  Notwithstanding  this  ap- 
parent congruence  of  txan  and 
'  says ',  yet  tzan  is  not  a  verb,  and 
does  not  of  itself  mean  say.  Its 
initial  meaning,  as  examples  in 
another  syntax  would  show,  is  what 
like  ;  how  ;  or  as. 

txaqrabi  commandment,  orders. 

tzly  proclitic,  at,  to;  on;  etc. 
Txi  /behen,  txl  /Izk,  tzi  /sk,  tzi 
/utz ;  see  /behen,  etc.  The  closest 
parallel  to  these  expressions,  and 
often  a  convenient  translation  of 
them,  is  found  in  those  words  of  ours 
which  are  formed  with  the  prefixes 
be-,  a-,  or  with-]  as  behind,  before  ; 
within,  without;  ahead,  astern;  etc. 
These  prefixes  are  the  just  counter- 
part of  tzl ;  not  merely  in  situation, 
and  in  want  of  accent  (for  they 
cannot  be  emphasized);  but  also  in 
meaning,  being  a  mixture  of  at  and 
to. 

tzi  answers  to /Vi,  ox  of,  in  expres- 
sions like  5tuk  ...  tzi  kakaw, 
200  in  cacao,  line  26. 

The  uses  of  tzi  are  multiferious ; 
in  a  way  which  might  be  explained 
as  elliptical,  tzi  has  come  to  be  con- 
strued like  an  index  of  tense,  taking 
the  same  verbal  forms  with  it  as  the 
future  index  ta.  The  effect  of  this 
tzi  may  often  be  rendered  by  the 
Span.  *  present  subjunctive ',  or  by 


BURKITT]     A  KEKCHl'  WILL  OF  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTUR  Y         293 


some  sort  of  'imperative/  or  other 
future  expression  of  purpose  or  ex- 
pectation, to  which,  as  it  were,  the 
mind  is  stretched :  txl  uxq,  (Sp. ) 
que  se  hagan,  line  6  ;  tzi  £eheqi  be 
it  given  f  let  it  be  given^  it  is  to  be 
given  J  etc.,  line  19 ;  .  .  .  noq 
.  .  .  tx'inkeniy  .  .  .  cotton  ,  .  . 
/or  me  to  weave,  or  which  I  mean 
to  weave,  line  27  ;  naq  in  tzl 
kamq  (s  naq  tz'in  kamq),  as  I 
{look  to)  die,  line  6.  This  td 
may  be  termed  the  index  of  '  eth- 
ical '  future,  or  '  future  of  in- 
terest.* The  difference  between 
this  txl  and  ta  may  sometimes  be 
ignored. 

tjdk,  postpositive,  more,  else, 
other,  besides,  too,  etc.  :  jun  tJdk, 
another,  line  17. 

^^tx  metal,  especially  iron, 

/txOl  heart ;  figuratively,  heart, 
breast;  mind. 

tzotZy  earth,  land. 

/tzum     (obsolescent),     desire, 
fancy,  whim  {of), 

/tt&n  (in  Cobdn  /ikin),  with; 
at  (so  and  so' s),  Fr.  chez)  together 
with  ;  etc.  :  vaSdn^  with  {him,  it, 
etc.),  therewith;  rukin  Caspar 
Tun,  with  Caspar  Tun,  at  Caspar 


Tun^s,  line  25.  Though  translated 
by  prepositions,  /uldn,  like  86,  is 
by  rights  a  noun. 

ut,  sometimes  postpositive  (cf. 
Latin  que)  ;  particle  of  continua- 
tion, generally  translatable  by '  and. ' 

/titz  (in  Cob^,  and  generally, 
/u),  face  {of),  front  {of),  txi 
/utx,  in  front  of,  before,  in  pres- 
ence of;  etc. 

tix,  uxky  tixq,  be  done,  be  exe- 
cuted, take  place. 

x/,  for  r/,  q.  v.,  before  a  conso- 
nant :  8^  xkab&i  in  his  name,  line 
3  ;  xtzum  in  txol  ( '  its  desire  my 
heart^),  my  hearfs  desire,  line  4. 

zik,  go.  —  The  final  k  is  not  a 
palatal  augment,  but  part  of  the 
stem,  zik  is  irregular  in  having  no 
imperative  of  its  own ;  and  is  not 
used  in  past  tenses. 

xiyab,  comb.  — The  verb  is  quite 
different :  t^,  tCok. 

yaj,  sick. 

Y&t|  an  Indian  surname,  nearly 
as  common  as  Q&al. 

Yat8,  another  Indian  surname. 

yokotC  ['  wooden  crook  */  yoko8| 
crooked;  tC,  obsolete  variant  of 
txC,  wood'\,  mattock  (for  hoeing 
com,  etc.). 


It  is  320  years  since  the  writing  of  the  will;  and  considering 
the  bad  penmanship,  the  vacillating  spelling,  stupid  abbreviations, 
omissions,  want  of  punctuation,  and  what  not,  the  wonder  is  not 
that  parts  of  the  document  should  be  obscure,  but  that  so  much  of 
it  should  be  clear.  Not  counting  repetitions,  the  known  words 
established  in  it,  surnames  and  all,  are  about  112  Kekchi  and  36 
Spanish.  Inspection  of  the  dubious  words,  or  groups  of  letters, 
shows  that  some  10  or  11  of  them  may  be  set  down  to  Kekchi, 


294  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

and  4  or  5  to  Spanish.  The  proportions  are  small,  and  favorable, 
if  anything,  to  the  Indian. 

It  has  been  affirmed  that  barbarian  languages  are  unstable ;  and 
even  change  so  fast  that  a  boy  and  his  grandfather  may  hardly  under- 
stand each  other.  The  merit  of  the  will  is  its  violent  testimony 
to  the  contrary.  If  "Juan  Mendez,  scribe,"  had  been  a  better 
scribe,  there  would  be  little  but  the  date  to  show  that  his  Indian 
was  not  written  yesterday. 

Senahu,  Guatemala,  1904. 


EXCAVATION  OF  INDIAN  GRAVES  IN  WESTERN 

MASSACHUSETTS 

By  HARRIS    HAWTHORNE  WILDER 

During  the  previous  autumn  (Oct-Nov.,  1904)  excavations  of 
Indian  burial-sites  were  made  in  two  places  along  the  east  bank  of 
Connecticut  river,  one  under  the  auspices  of  Smith  College,  the 
other  by  Amherst  As  both  were  successful  in  finding  well-pre- 
served skeletons,  a  brief  account  of  the  results  may  be  of  interest, 
especially  since  little  seems  to  have  been  recorded  concerning  the 
mortuary  customs  of  the  Indians  of  this  locality. 

The  Smith  College  excavations  were  carried  on  between  Oct.  i 
and  I S  at  North  Hadley,  on  the  spot  indicated  by  the  accompanying 
map  (figure  14).  The  northwestern  portion  of  the  town,  including 
the  branch  road  running  northward,  is  situated  on  a  level  sandy 
plain,  the  bottom  of  the  post-glacial  "  Hadley  lake,"  and  this  for- 
mation is  prolonged  into  the  bend  of  the  river  where  it  forms  a  rec- 
tangular field,  the  burial  site.  About  this  the  land  slopes  down 
abruptly  to  the  lower  level  of  the  present  river-meadows.  Almost 
continuous  with  the  northwest  curve  of  this  is  a  rectangular  knoll 
300  to  400  feet  across,  which  is  probably  not  a  farther  continuation 
of  the  lake-bottom  plateau,  but  a  sand  dune,  or  drumlin.  Local 
tradition  locates  here  an  Indian  settlement,  and  although  this  knoll 
has  been  under  cultivation  for  years  and  is  now  covered  with  a  crop 
of  clover,  we  were  able  to  pick  up  on  the  surface  several  potsherds 
and  a  broken  quartz  arrowpoint,  confirmatory  indications  of  the 
truth  of  the  tradition.  At  the  present  time  the  river  lies  at  some 
little  distance  from  both  the  village  and  the  burial  sites,  except  on 
the  north,  but  as  the  bed  of  the  river  at  this  place  has  been  the 
scene  of  repeated  changes,  as  is  evidenced  by  the  traces  of  several 
ox-bows  to  the  west,  it  is  probable  that  at  the  time  of  the  Indian 
occupancy  the  water  came  to  the  foot  of  the  terraces,  thus  enclosing 
the  knoll  and  the  plateau  on  three  sides,  and  giving  the  site  an 
exceptional  location,  with  an  open  prospect  both  up  and  down  the 

AM.  ANTH.,  N    S.,  7— 90  295 


296 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [h.  s.,  1,  1905 


Fig.   14. — Map  of  North  Hadley,  Mui.,  showing  site  of  aboriginal  Tillage  and  butial- 


wiLDBR]  EXCA  VA  TION  OF  INDIAN  GRA  VES  297 

river.  It  had  long  been  known  that  there  was  an  aboriginal  burial 
site  somewhere  in  this  vicinity,  but  the  exact  locality  had  become 
lost,  and  was  rediscovered  the  previous  spring  (1904)  by  the  chance 
plowing  up  of  some  bones  near  the  northern  edge  of  the  rectangular 
field.  The  northwest  comer  of  this  field  was  almost  immediately 
excavated  by  a  representative  of  the  Peabody  Museum  of  Harvard 
University,  who  found  there  the  skeletons  of  two  adults  and  a  child 
of  six  or  seven  years.  The  right  to  dig  in  the  remainder  of  the  field 
was  then  granted  by  Mr  L.  P.  Bullard,  its  owner,  to  the  Smith 
College  authorities,  who  located  a  claim  along  the  northern  side, 
adjacent  to  that  of  the  Peabody  Museum,  but  postponed  the  actual 
excavation  until  after  the  summer  vacation. 

The  burial  site,  where  these  excavations  were  made,  is  now  a 
cultivated  field,  planted  with  tobacco.  The  field  is  covered  with  a 
brown  surface  loam,  14  to  16  inches  thick  on  a  level,  below  which 
lies  a  compact  yellow  sand  of  unknown  depth.  The  skeletons  oc- 
curred in  this  latter  formation,  their  highest  parts  not  more  than  4 
to  6  inches  below  its  surface,  or  18  to  22  inches  from  the  top.  As 
the  color  contrast  between  the  brown  surface  loam  and  the  yellow 
sand  is  a  marked  one,  and  as  the  top  soil  is  very  mellow  from  long 
cultivation,  it  was  possible  to  scrape  the  loam  into  heaps  with  a  two- 
horse  road  scraper,  leaving  about  an  inch  over  the  sand,  and  then 
dig  over  the  territory  thus  uncovered  with  spades.  Although  the 
depth  thus  reached  was  sufficient  to  disclose  the  skeletons,  the  chief 
reliance  was  placed  upon  the  mixture  of  the  two  colors  of  earth 
which  necessarily  occurred  over  each  grave,  a  point  which  could  be 
easily  determined  by  watching  the  cuts  made  by  the  sharp  spades. 
In  each  case  the  mixed  earth  formed  an  approximately  circular  area 
about  three  feet  in  diameter,  the  more  superficial  portion  strewn  with 
pieces  of  charcoal  much  mixed  up  by  the  years  of  cultivation  to 
which  the  field  had  been  subjected. 

In  this  way  a  fairly  large  area  was  thoroughly  searched,  result- 
ing in  the  discovery  of  two  skeletons  in  good  preservation.  In  five 
or  six  other  instances  there  were  uncovered  the  characteristic  areas 
of  mixed  earth  with  pieces  of  charcoal,  but  with  no  trace  of  either 
bones  or  teeth,  although  in  every  such  case  the  earth  was  excavated 
to  a  considerable  depth,  and  careful  search  made.     Whether  these 


298  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7, 1905 

spots  indicated  graves  from  which  all  traces  of  the  human  remains 
had  disappeared,  or  had  been  caused  by  the  uprooting  of  ancient 
trees,  we  have  been  unable  to  decide,  as  their  exact  similarity  to  the 
actual  graves  points  to  the  one  conclusion  while  the  entire  absence 
of  remains  suggests  the  other. 

The  first  of  the  skeletons  found  is  shown  in  the  accompanying 
photograph  (plate  xxiii,  2).  The  sand,  at  the  time  of  the  excavation, 
was  moist  from  recent  rains,  and  held  the  bones  well  in  place,  and 
the  skeleton  was  prepared  for  the  photograph  by  removing  the  sand 
from  above  bit  by  bit,  allowing  the  bones  to  remain  absolutely  undis- 
turbed. The  only  bones  which  had  been  moved  before  the  photo- 
graph was  taken  were  the  tarsal  and  other  bones  of  the  feet,  which 
are  seen  lying  upon  a  piece  of  burlap  at  the  right  of  the  figure,  and 
the  right  tibia  and  patella,  which  became  accidentally  loosened 
during  the  removal  of  the  sand,  but  were  exactly  replaced  in  their 
former  position.  In  taking  the  photograph  the  camera  was  placed 
at  the  edge  of  the  excavation,  standing  perhaps  a  foot  above  the 
highest  level  of  the  bones,  and  was  pointed  almost  directly  down- 
ward, so  that  the  photograph  must  be  held  nearly  horizontally  to 
reproduce  the  exact  relationship. 

It  is  shown  by  this  that  there  had  been  some  change  in  the  orig- 
inal position  of  the  bones  prior  to  the  excavation,  due  probably  to 
such  various  causes  as  the  action  of  water,  earthworms,  and  the 
growth  of  roots.  Thus  the  bones  of  the  hands  had  wandered  from 
their  original  position  and  were  found  at  various  depths  in  the  vicin- 
ity of  the  head,  some  not  being  recovered  at  all.  The  bones  of  one 
entire  finger  were  firmly  imbedded  in  the  earth  that  filled  the  cran- 
ial cavity  and  came  to  light  when  the  skull  was  cleaned  in  the  lab- 
oratory several  days  later.  This  dislocation  of  parts,  especially  of 
the  smaller  bones,  which  must  have  occurred  long  after  burial,  leads 
one  to  be  cautious  in  drawing  sweeping  conclusions  concerning  the 
original  disposal  of  the  limbs  when  in  the  flesh,  although  the  reten- 
tion of  the  natural  relationships  of  the  larger  bones  assures  us  that 
the  shifting  of  position  of  the  limbs  as  a  whole  could  have  been  but 
slight,  as  for  example,  a  possible  dropping  of  the  knees  from  a  more 
upright  original  position.  It  is  thus  sufficiently  clear  that  the  body 
was  buried  with  its  arms  and  legs  folded  up,  the  hands  about  the 


^ 


wiLDEK]  EXCA  VA  TION  OF  INDIAN  GRA  VES  299 

head,  and  the  knees  close  to  the  body.  This  is  the  Hockerstellung 
of  German  archeologists,  and  may  be  interpreted  as  an  intentional 
symbolism,  referring  to  a  second  birth,  the  position  being  similar  to 
that  of  the  child  in  the  womb.  The  skeleton  was  headed  almost 
due  east,  as  shown  by  a  compass,  the  face  being  to  the  north.  The 
body  lay  upon  its  right  side.  A  later  examination  of  the  pelvis 
showed  that  the  skeleton  was  undoubtedly  that  of  a  man,  and  the 
sutures  of  the  skull  indicated  that  he  was  probably  between  20  and 
30  years  of  age.  The  length  and  breadth  measurements  of  the  skull, 
182  X  135.5  mm.,  give  a  cephalic  index  of  74.45. 

The  excavation  of  the  second  skeleton  was  not  quite  as  success- 
ful, owing  in  part  to  a  somewhat  deeper  burial  and  in  part  to  the 
&ct  that  the  bones  were  smaller  and  more  fragile.  This  skeleton 
was  that  of  a  small  aged  person,  with  a  lower  jaw  of  the  extreme 
senile  type,  and  showing  but  two  stubs  of  teeth,  besides  two  other 
alveoli  nearly  filled  ^-ith  bone  substance.  The  general  position  was 
similar  to  the  first,  that  is,  it  was  doubled  up  with  the  knees  close 
to  the  chest,  but  it  seems  to  have  been  cast  into  the  grave  with  but 
little  care,  as  the  face  was  directed  downward.  It  lay  upon  its  left 
side,  with  the  head  directed  nearly  to  the  south. 

No  implements  or  utensils  of  any  kind  were  found  in  connection 
with  these  skeletons,  but  the  field  has  yielded  an  abundance  of  arrow- 
points  for  many  years,  and  it  is  at  present  plentifully  bestre\*Ti  with 
flint  flakes.  Baking  stones,  reddened  by  heat  and  often  cracked  or 
split,  were  found  here  and  there  in  the  soil,  especially  in  the  ucinit}- 
of  the  spots  of  disturbed  earth  ;  these  were  rendered  conspicuous 
from  the  feet  that  the  soil,  owing  to  its  formation,  is  naturally  with- 
out stones  of  any  kind. 

The  Amherst  College  excavations  were  conducted  a  few  weeks 

later  by  Dr  Edward  Hitchcock.     These  were  also  on  the  east  bank 

of  the  Connecticut,  but  about  six  miles  farther  south  by  the  road,  or 

double  that  distance  along  the  windings  of  the  river,  at  a  well-known 

locality  between  Hadley  and  South  Hadlcy.  where  skeletons  and 

utensils  have  been  obtained  in  the  past.     The  spot  is  known  locally 

as  "  Indian  Hill,"  the  name  being  applied  to  a  low  ridge  of  sand,  the 

longer  axis  of  which  runs  approximately  east  and  west,  at  right  angics 

to  the  river  bank.     Its  southern  slope  is  abrupt,  but  its  norther^. 


WILDER]  EXCA  VA  TION  OF  INDIAN  GRA  VES  299 

head,  and  the  knees  close  to  the  body.  This  is  the  Hockerstellung 
of  German  archeologists,  and  may  be  interpreted  as  an  intentional 
symbolism,  referring  to  a  second  birth,  the  position  being  similar  to 
that  of  the  child  in  the  womb.  The  skeleton  was  headed  almost 
due  east,  as  shown  by  a  compass,  the  face  being  to  the  north.  The 
body  lay  upon  its  right  side.  A  later  examination  of  the  pelvis 
showed  that  the  skeleton  was  undoubtedly  that  of  a  man,  and  the 
sutures  of  the  skull  indicated  that  he  was  probably  between  20  and 
30  years  of  age.  The  length  and  breadth  measurements  of  the  skull, 
182  X  135.5  mm.,  give  a  cephalic  index  of  74.45. 

The  excavation  of  the  second  skeleton  was  not  quite  as  success- 
ful, owing  in  part  to  a  somewhat  deeper  burial  and  in  part  to  the 
fact  that  the  bones  were  smaller  and  more  fragile.  This  skeleton 
was  that  of  a  small  aged  person,  with  a  lower  jaw  of  the  extreme 
senile  type,  and  showing  but  two  stubs  of  teeth,  besides  two  other 
alveoli  nearly  filled  with  bone  substance.  The  general  position  was 
similar  to  the  first,  that  is,  it  was  doubled  up  with  the  knees  close 
to  the  chest,  but  it  seems  to  have  been  cast  into  the  grave  with  but 
little  care,  as  the  face  was  directed  downward.  It  lay  upon  its  left 
side,  with  the  head  directed  nearly  to  the  south. 

No  implements  or  utensils  of  any  kind  were  found  in  connection 
with  these  skeletons,  but  the  field  has  yielded  an  abundance  of  arrow- 
points  for  many  years,  and  it  is  at  present  plentifully  bestrewn  with 
flint  flakes.  Baking  stones,  reddened  by  heat  and  oflen  cracked  or 
split,  were  found  here  and  there  in  the  soil,  especially  in  the  vicinity 
of  the  spots  of  disturbed  earth ;  these  were  rendered  conspicuous 
from  the  fact  that  the  soil,  owing  to  its  formation,  is  naturally  with- 
out stones  of  any  kind. 

The  Amherst  College  excavations  were  conducted  a  few  weeks 
later  by  Dr  Edward  Hitchcock.  These  were  also  on  the  east  bank 
of  the  Connecticut,  but  about  six  miles  farther  south  by  the  road,  or 
double  that  distance  along  the  windings  of  the  river,  at  a  well-known 
locality  between  Hadley  and  South  Hadley,  where  skeletons  and 
utensils  have  been  obtained  in  the  past.  The  spot  is  known  locally 
as  '*  Indian  Hill,"  the  name  being  applied  to  a  low  ridge  of  sand,  the 
longer  axis  of  which  runs  approximately  east  and  west,  at  right  angles 
to  the  river  bank.     Its  southern  slope  is  abrupt,  but  its  northern 


300  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7, 1905 

dips  gradually  into  the  surrounding  level.    The  east  bank  of  the 
river  at  this  place  is  apt  to  be  undermined  by  the  action  of  the  spring 
freshets,  and  it  is  reported  locally  that  this  action  once  disclosed  a 
skeleton  which  was  seen  protruding  from  the  cut  section  of  the  bank. 
In  the  spring  of  1900  the  washout  included  the  highway,  which  ran 
near  the  river  bank  at  this  place,  necessitating  the  construction  of  a 
new  highway  some  distance  farther  east ;  and  in  the  cut  which  was 
made  through  the  ridge  for  this  purpose  parts  of  five  skeletons  were 
found  at  that  time,  together  with  a  number  of  stone  implements, 
variously  interpreted  as  hoes,  hatchets,  and  gouges.     It  thus  seems 
probable  that  the  entire  ridge  was  used  by  the  Indians  for  burial 
purposes,  and  as  little  of  the  ground  has  been  dug  over  it  is  to  be 
expected  that  the  ridge  still  contains  considerable  material.     The 
ground  is  unbroken  and  covered  with  sod,  and  no  excavation  on  a 
large  scale  has  ever  been  attempted.     In  the  course  of  the  present 
investigation  two  finds  were  made,  both  upon  the  east  side  of  the 
new  cut     One  of  these  was  that  of  a  child  of  twelve,  the  other  a 
double  grave  containing  two  adults,  lying  side  by  side,  with  their 
limbs  entwined.     This  find  is  of  so  unusual  a  nature  that  a  photo- 
graph of  it,  given  me  by  Dr  Hitchcock,  is  here  reproduced  (plate 

XXIII,    i). 

As  will  be  seen,  the  photograph  was  taken  in  strong  sunlight, 

and  with  the  camera  pointed  almost  directly  downward,  as  in  the 

other  case.     The  skeletons  lay  with  their  heads  to  the  south  and 

facing  west     No  utensils  or  charcoal  were  found  in  connection  with 

either  grave,  although,  as  stated  above,  many  stone  implements  were 

discovered  with  the  bones  found  four  years  ago  in  excavating  the 

cut  for  the  highway,  the  edge  of  which  was  but  eight  feet  from  the 

double  grave.     The  relation  of  these  implements  to  the  skeletons 

does  not  seem  to  have  been  recorded. 
Smith  College, 

Northampton.  Mass. 


SOCIAL  ORGANIZATION  OF  THE  CHINGALEE  TRIBE, 

NORTHERN  AUSTRALIA 

By  R.  H.  MATHEWS 

In  1900  I  contributed  to  the  Anthropological  Society  of  Wash- 
ington an  article  entitled  "  The  Wombya  Organization  of  the  Aus- 
tralian Aborigines,"  ^  accompanied  with  a  map  showing  the  geo- 
graphic limits  of  the  territory  within  which  it  prevails.  The 
WomhyB.  or  Wombaia  type  of  organization  is  distinguished  by  the 
tribe  being  divided  into  eight  sections,  which  intermarry  one  with 
the  other  in  conformity  with  certain  laws.  This  type  is  in  force  in 
the  northwest  comer  of  Queensland,  the  northern  comer  of  West 
Australia,  and  over  the  greater  part  of  the  Northem  Territory. 

Since  presenting  the  article  referred  to,  I  have  made  further 
investigations  respecting  the  laws  of  intermarriage,  and  have  thought 
it  right  to  report  the  result  of  my  work  for  the  information  of  the 
ethnologists  of  America  and  Europe.  The  Chingalee  tribe  will 
again  be  taken  as  our  example  and  a  table  used  to  illustrate  the 
intermarrying  divisions.  The  names  in  this  table  are  the  same  as 
those  given  in  the  table  accompanying  my  former  article,  excepting 
that  I  have  omitted  the  termination  'in/ah,  which  is  common  to 
nearly  all  of  them,  in  order  that  they  may  occupy  less  space. 

I  have  also  found  it  convenient  to  alter  somewhat  the  arrange- 
ment of  the  sections  constituting  the  two  phratries,  A  and  B,  each 
phratry  comprising  four  sections.  The  table  shows  the  husband, 
wife,  son,  and  daughter  belonging  to  each  of  the  eight  divisions,  on 
the  same  line  across  the  page. 

If  we  take  the  first  name  in  the  table  it  will  serve  as  an  illustra- 
tion of  all  the  rest.  Chimitcha's  tabular  or  direct  wife  is  Nungalee, 
which  we  shall  call  No.  I.  He  can,  in  certain  cases  marry,  Nala, 
which  we  have  denominated  his  altemative  wife,  or  No.  II.  Or  he 
can,  subject  to  prescribed  restrictions,  take  a  Nana  as  his  wife,  which 

^  American  Anthropologist^  N.  s.,  n,  pp.  494-501,  with  map. 

301 


302 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


we  shall  distinguish  as  No.  III.     Moreover,  Chimitcha  may  occa- 
sionally espouse  a  Namitcha  maiden,  whom  we  shall  set  down  as 

No.  IV. 

Table  I 


\TR\ 

r       HUSBAND 

r  Chimitcha 

WIFE 

Nungalee 

SON 

Taralee 

DAUGHTER 

Naralee 

A 

Chuna 

Nala 

Tungaree 

Nungaree 

Chula 

Nana 

Chemara 

Nemara 

Chungalee 
'  Chemara 

Namitcha 
Naralee 

Champachina 
Chula 

Nampatchina 
Nala 

B 

Champachina 

Nungaree 

Chungalee 

Nungalee 

Tungaree 
Taralee 

Nampachina 
Nemara 

Chuna 
Chimitcha 

Nana 
Namitcha 

No.  I  is  the  normal  or  usual  wife  of  Chimitcha,  and  is  the  one 
most  generally  married.  No.  II  is  the  next  most  frequently  allotted 
wife.  Nos.  Ill  and  IV  are  not  of  such  common  occurrence,  although 
quite  in  accordance  with  the  aboriginal  law. 

Again,  Chuna  marries  Nala  as  his  tabular  wife,  or  No.  I ;  he 
takes  Nungalee  as  his  alternative  spouse,  or  No.  II ;  he  mates  with 
Namitcha  as  No.  Ill ;  and  he  can  marry  a  Nana  woman  as  No.  IV. 

Similarly,  Chula  and  Chungalee  can  marry  either  of  the  women 
opposite  their  respective  names  in  Table  I  as  their  No.  I  and  No. 
II  wives.  Or  they  can  take  a  Nala  or  a  Nungalee  as  their  No.  Ill 
and  No.  IV  wives.  It  is  evident,  therefore,  that  any  man  of 
Phratry  A  can  marry  any  one  of  the  four  women  mentioned  in  that 
portion  of  the  table,  subject  to  the  modifications  stated  above. 

Everything  that  has  been  said  respecting  the  people  in  Phratry 
A  applies  to  the  marriages  of  the  men  and  women  in  Phratry  B^ 
mutatis  mutandis. 

In  all  cases  the  section  name  of  the  progeny  is  determined 
through  the  mother.  If  Chimitcha  marry  Nungalee,  his  children  are 
Taralee  and  Naralee ;  if  he  take  a  Nala,  they  are  Tungaree  and 
Nungaree ;  if  he  choose  a  Nana,  they  are  Chemara  and  Nemara ; 
and  if  he  be  allotted  a  Namitcha,  his  children  will  be  Champachina 
and  Nampachina. 

Space  will  not  permit  the  use  of  genealogical  tables  and  expla- 
nations for  exhibiting  how  intermarriages  are  regulated,  hence  this 


MATHEWS]         SOCIOLOGY  OF  THE  CHINGALEE  TRIBE 


303 


matter  must  be  passed  for  the  present  By  means  of  trustworthy 
correspondents  residing  in  the  territory  of  the  Chingalee  tribe,  I 
have  been  trjang  for  some  years  to  ascertain  definitely  how  the  to- 
tems descend  —  whether  through  the  men  or  through  the  women  ; 
but  I  am  not  yet  satisfied.  In  describing  the  organization  of  kin- 
dred tribes  in  adjacent  districts,  Spencer  and  Gillen  have  endeavored 
to  show  that  descent  is  through  the  men,  but  I  am  equally  dissatis- 
fied with  their  conclusions. 

One  of  my  most  valued  and  careful  correspondents  has  sent  me 
the  following  tabulated  list  of  sixteen  members  of  the  Chingalee 
tribe,  in  which,  at  my  request,  he  has  given  me  the  English  name, 
together  with  the  section  and  totem,  of  each  individual ;  the  totem  of 
his  or  her  father  ;  the  totem  of  his  or  her  mother,  and  the  totem  of 

the  offspring. 

Table  II 


Nn 

Individual  (man  and 

woman). 

Totem  of 

Individoal't 

Father. 

Toiem  of 

Individual's 

Mother. 

Totem  of 

X^Oa 

Name 

Section 

Totem 

AIiaiTKlUKl  ■ 

Offspring. 

I 

Charlie 
Lucy  (wife) 

Chuna 
Nala 

Black  striped 

snake 
Native  bee 

Black  Striped 

snake 
Streculia 

Fish 
Native  bee 

)  Black 
V     striped 
j      snake 

2 
2a 

Harry 
Nora 

Chuna 
Nala 

Earthworm 
Iguana 

Nut-grass 
Black  striped 
snake 

E^uthworm 
Iguana 

V  Iguana 

3 
3« 

Jacob 
Daisy 

Chuna 
Nana 

Sleepy-lizard 
Sulky-snake 

Sleepy-lizard 
Sulky  snake 

Wallaby 
Dog 

\         No 
j     children 

4 
4^ 

Old  Dad 
His  wife 

Chuna 
Nana 

Sleepy-lizard 
Stone  knife 

Sleepy-lizard 
Stone  knife 

Wallaby 
Dog 

1  Sleepy- 
/     lizard 

5 

Toby 
Belle 

Tungaree 
Nemara 

Water  snake 
Honey  and 
kangaroo 

Iguana 
Bandicoot 

Ground  honey 
Tree  honey 

>-  Water  snake 

6 
6a 

Rowley 
His  wife 

Chula 
Nana 

Kangaroo 
Honey 

Kangaroo 
Streculia 

Bandicoot 
Honey 

V  Kangaroo 

7 
7« 

Palmer 
His  wife 

Chula 
Nana 

Honey 
Kangaroo 

Honey 
Water  snake 

Nut-grass 
Kangaroo 

V  Honey 

8 
%a 

Jack 
Mary 

Chula 
Nungalee 

Iguana 
Streculia  and 
Wallaby 

Streculia 
Wallaby 

Iguana 
Streculia 

V  Streculia 

In  the  above  table,  Nos.  i ,  2,  6,  and  7  are  married  to  the  normal 
or  **  direct "  wives,  whom  we   previously  distinguished  as  No.  I. 


304  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

No.  5  in  the  table  has  an  "alternative"  or  No.  II  wife.  No.  8  is 
married  to  a  No.  Ill  woman,  which  may  be  called  "  rare."  Nos. 
3  and  4  are  united  to  "  exceptional "  or  No.  IV  wives. 

According  to  Table  II  the  children  of  Nos.  i,  4,  5,  6,  and  7 
have  the  same  totem  as  the  father.  Nos.  2  and  8  take  the  totem  of 
the  mother.  Again,  on  examination  of  the  totems  in  the  fourth, 
iifUi,  and  sixth  columns,  it  is  seen  that  some  of  them  follow  the 
father,  some  the  mother,  and  some  follow  neither  parent.  Other 
individuals  have  two  totems. 

In  other  instances  not  included  in  this  table,  I  have  discovered 
that  even  among  the  offspring  of  the  same  parents  there  is  consider- 
able irregularity  —  some  of  the  children  having  one  totem  and  some 
another.  I  am  inclined  to  think,  however,  that  if  one  could  prepare 
genealogies  showing  tw6  or  three  generations,  taking  into  account 
all  the  ramifications  caused  by  the  marriages  I  have  numbered  I,  II, 
III,  and  IV,  the  laws  of  descent  might  be  found  more  regular  than 
at  present  appears. 

It  may  be  stated  that  I  am  the  only  student  up  to  the  present 
who  has  reported  the  marriages  herein  referred  to  as  No.  Ill  and 
No.  IV  among  the  Wombya  or  any  kindred  tribe ;  and  no  author 
has  before  attempted  to  arrange  the  sections  composing  the  phratries 
as  they  now  appear  in  Table  I.  The  present  article  is  necessarily 
very  brief,  but  it  is  believed  that  it  will  result  in  shedding  new  light 
on  the  social  organization  of  Australian  tribes  and  enable  investi- 
gators to  start  anew. 

Parramatta, 

New  South  Wales. 


THE  CHAMORRO  LANGUAGE  OF  GUAM— V 

By  WILLIAM  EDWIN  SAFFORD 

IX.  —  Verbal  Directive  and  Locative  Particles 

1.  Magi,  or  mage.  —  This  particle,  which  corresponds  to  mai 
of  the  Sawaiori  languages,  is  used  to  express  motion  toward  the 
speaker;  as  Chule  mAgi  i  hdnont^  bring  hither  the  water;  tnauudai 
hoc  magi  ?  were  you  carried  hither  ?  (did  you  ride  hither  ?).  It  is 
interesting  to  note  that  whereas  in  Polynesia  the  particle  men  is  used 
also  as  a  preposition  '  from  '  {nud^hea^  Hawaiian,  from  where),  this 
is  not  the  case  in  the  Chamorro  language  {gine-mano^  from  where), 
in  which  it  is  used  only  as  a  directive  particle  having  the  sense  con- 
veyed by  hither  (German  h€r\  It  is  possible  that  the  verb  maila, 
to  come,  is  connected  in  some  way  with  the  particle  tnagi^  but  I 
have  been  unable  to  trace  the  connection. 

2.  Goatu,  or  guato.  —  This  particle  corresponds  to  atu  of  the 
Sawaiori  languages ;  it  is  used  to  express  motion  away  from  the 
speaker  (German  hin) ;  as  chule  guato  /  hanom^  take  hence  the  water. 
Guato  gi  manchagb  na  tano^  forth  to  distant  lands.  It  is  not  used 
as  a  preposition,  but  is  simply  a  verbal  directive.  From  it  is  formed 
a  verb  gudguato^  to  go  to  (German  hingehen), 

3.  Directive  Particles  Absent  from  Philippine  Dialects.  — 
So  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  learn,  these  particles  are  absent  from 
the  dialects  of  the  Philippines.  They  are  essentially  Polynesian, 
playing  a  far  greater  part  in  the  eastern  Pacific  groups  than  in 
Guam.  In  Samoan  we  have  au  mai,  bring  hither;  az/atu,  take 
hence  ;  o  mai  ia  te  a' My  come  hither  unto  me ;  o  atu  ia  losefa,  go 
hence  unto  Joseph.  In  Hawaiian  we  have,  e  awe  mai,  bring  hither ; 
e  awe  aku,  take  hence  ;  e  hele  mai,  come  hither ;  e  helo  aku,  go 
away.  I  have  found  nothing  corresponding  to  this  in  the  Philippine 
dialects,  but  the  identity  of  the  Polynesian  and  Guam  directives  is 
certain. 

4.  Nae,  or  nai. — In  addition  to  the  above  particles,  which  indi- 

305 


306  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

cate  the  direction  toward  which  ox  from  which  an  action  tends,  there 
is  another  particle  very  much  used  in  the  Chamorro,  indicating  the 
place  or  time  at  which  the  action  of  the  verb  is  performed.  This 
may  be  called  a  locative  particle.  It  corresponds  to  the  English  at 
or  on  (French  i,  German  an),  in  the  adverbial  phrases,  at  what 
place,  at  what  time,  on  Monday,  at  evening.  Its  use  does  not  ac- 
cord, however,  with  the  rules  of  English  grammar,  since  it  is  used 
with  adverbs  of  place  and  time ;  as  mano  nae  gaege,  where  at  is  he  ? 
ngaian  nae  mato  hao  ?  when  at  did  you  come  ?  pago  nae,  at  now  — 
phrases  which  become  proper  in  our  language  when  changed  to,  *  at 
what  place  is  he  ?  at  what  time  did  you  come  ?  at  present'  This 
particle  is  applied  even  to  Spanish  words  which  have  found  their 
way  into  the  Chamorro,  as  este  nae,  here,  at  this  place ;  nunka  nae, 
never,  at  no  time.  It  is  also  combined  with  the  adverbial  conjunc- 
tions an,  gin,  when  or  where,  used  to  join  a  subordinate  to  a  principal 
clause  in  complex  sentences,  forming  anae,  ginae,  etc. 

X. — Adverbs 

I.  Adverbs  of  Place  and  Motion. — The  common  adverbs 
of  place  and  motion  are  in  reality  abbreviations  of  phrases  composed 
of  the  demonstrative  pronouns  preceded  by  the  preposition  gi,  ^  or 
to.  They  correspond  with  the  demonstratives  very  much  as  the 
French  adverbs  id,  la  (here,  there)  correspond  with  the  demon- 
stratives celui'ci,  celui4a  (this,  that),  although  in  Guam  it  is  the 
demonstrative  which  is  the  primitive  word  and  the  adverb  the 
derivative.     Thus  we  have : 

guinl|  here,  from  gi yini,  at  this  (place)  ; 
guenaOi  there,  ixora  gi yenao,  at  that  (place)  ; 
guihCi  yonder,  from  gi yuhe,  at  yon  (place)  ; 

From  the  names  of  directions  are  derived  adverbs  preceded  by 
iya,  or  by  the  prefix  san-,  the  latter  of  which  has  the  effect  of 
modifying  the  radical  vowel  as  in  the  case  of  the  article  L 

Primitive  word  With  Iya  With  San 

huld^  up  iya  hulo,  on  top  sanhilo,  above 

papd,  down  iya  papd,  at  the  bottom  sanpdpd,  below 

halotn,  in  iya  halom,  inside  sanhdlom,  inward 

huyong,  out  iya  huyongy  outside  sanhiyongy  outward 


safford] 


THE  CHAMORRO  LANGUAGE   OF  GUAM 


307 


Primitive  word 

tate^  after 
lago^  north 
haya^  south 
katatif  east 
luchafif  west 


With 

santitCy  on  the  rear 
sanl&gOy  on  the  north 
sanhdya,  on  the  south 
sank&tatiy  on  the  east 
sanlichany  on  the  west 


gi  i&gO'kOy  on  my  north  ; 
gi  hctya-moy  on  thy  south ; 
gi  kdtan-Ha  on  his  east ; 
gi  lichan-tay  on  our  west ; 
entaloy  among,  between; 


With  iya 
iya  tatCy  behind 
iya  lagOy  in  the  north 
iya  hayay  in  the  south 
iya  kataUy  in  the  east 
iya  luchatiy  in  the  west 

In  indicating  the  direction  of  an  action  the  above  words  are  pre- 
ceded by  the  prepositions  falag,  toward ;  gine,  from,  as  — 

falaghuldy  upward ;       ginehuldy  from  above ;    falagluchaUy  to  the  west. 
falagpapdy  downward ;  ginipapdy  from  below  ;   ginikatariy  from  the  east. 

The  use  of  the  possessive  suffixes  with  these  adverbs  has  already 
been  noticed,^  as  — 

gi  hiid-mame ;  on  our  upper  side,  above  us ; 
gi pdpd'tniyoy  on  our  lower  side,  below  us ; 
gi  menan-nihay  on  their  front,  before  them ; 
gi  tdten-fUhay  in  their  rear,  behind  them. 
gi  tntalo-miyoy  in  your  midst,  among  you. 

Adverbs  used  with  locative  and  directive  particles  : 

mano  nae,  mano  nai,  where  ?  at  what  place  ?  where  at  ? 

enao  nae,  there,  at  that  place ; 

ajni  naCi  ayo  nai,  yonder,  at  yonder  place ; 

guaha  naCi  at  any  place,  anywhere  ;  somewhere ; 

taya  nae,  at  no  place,  nowhere ; 

este  *  nae,  at  this  place,  here. 

este  magi,  guini  magi,  in  this  direction,  hither ; 

este  magi  nae,  at  this  place,  to  this  place  (toward  me); 

guenao  guato,  in  that  direction,  thither ; 

enao  guato  nae,  in  that  place  (away  from  here); 

ajru  guato  nae,  ayo  guatu  nai,  in  yonder  place  (away  from  here); 

todohft  nae,  in  every  place,  at  all  times ; ' 

iya  guiya  nae,  with  it,  therein. 

Suffix  -naion,  or  -naehon.  —  This  suffix  often  has  the  force  of 
the  adverb  *  away ' ;  as  Mnfakvas^on  i  guina/ia-fno  gi  fantaguon-mo, 
thou-dividedst-^ra/tfj/  thy  property  among  thy  children.* 

^  Am.  Anthr.y  vol.  V,  p.  512  ;  p.  29  of  the  reprint. 

•  Este^  adopted  from  the  Spanish,  is  gradually  superseding  the  Chamorro  iif  1,  this. 

•  From  Spanish  todoy  every,  all,  and  the  Chamorro  A<3,  indeed,  really. 
*See  Verbal  Suffixes,  Am,  Anthr.,  vol.  vi,  p.  113  ;  p.  6$  of  reprint. 


308  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

2.  Adverbs  of  Time  and  Succession  : 

pdgo^  now,  today ;  pagd  na  haane^  this  day ; 

pdgohdy  pdgogohdf  right  now,  only  today,  just  now ; 

naya,  formerly,  in  olden  times ; 

hagas^  formerly,  once  on  a  time;  as  hagas  magalahe  hao^  formerly 
you  were  governor. 

Idmona^  presently,  later  (literally,  more  ahead)  ; 

monhayariy  monhan^  already  (before  a  past  act)  ;  ^ 

agupay  tomorrow; 

agupahdf  repeatedly,  day  after  day ; 

inagpaHaj  day  after  tomorrow ; 

nigady  yesterday ; 

inigabHaj  i  halacha,  day  before  yesterday ; 

tafiafy  early ; 

taloancy  late,  tardy,  tardily  (when  spoken  in  the  morning); 

poeHge,  puefige^  late,  tardy,  tardily  (when  spoken  in  the  afternoon)  ; 

am-anty  behind-hand,  tardy,  a  long  time ; 

ti  am-amy  not  long ;  a  short  time ; 

ti  am-arnhdy  quite  a  short  time ; 

seso^  sesuy  frequently,  often ; 

lachay  onct ]  fahaguay  twice;  fafatUy  three  times,  etc.,  are  now 
obsolete. 

taplungy  frequently; 

ikaiagy  ekdkaiagf  rarely,  seldom ; 

halagy  rarely,  seldom; 

taloy  again,  once  more  (French,  encore)  ; 

//  talOy  not  again,  nevermore  :  ti  hu-isao  talOy  I  will  not  sin  again ; 

fininanay  firstly,  in  the  first  place ; 

/  mina-doSy  secondly,  in  the  second  place,*  etc. 

With  Locative  Particle  nae,  or  nai : 

figalan  nae  ?  when  ?  at  what  time  ? 

ayo  nae,  ajru  nai,  at  that  time ; 

pagO  nae,  now,  at  this  time ; 

taya  nae,  tat  nae,  never,  at  no  time. 

guaha  naCi  at  some  time,  at  times,  at  any  time. 

Adopted  from  the  Spanish  : 
siemprey  siemprehdy  always,  ever; 


*  Sec  vol.  VI,  p.  510 ;  p.  80  of  reprint. 

'  From  the  Chamorro  minay  and  the  Spanish  dosy  two. 


SAFFORD].  THE  CHAMORRO  LANGUAGE   OF  GUAM  309 

nunka  nae,  never ; 
kddaratOf  frequently,  many  times ; 

kadadia^  tolosdiasy  every  day,  daily ;  kadadia  hu-gdgagao  si  Vuus,  I 
beg  God  daily ; 

yes/a,  fradia,  already; 

fradia,  (in  a  reply,  like  Spanish  todavia)^  not  yet ; 

untirOf  unabtSy  un  biahe^  once ;  dos  beses^  dos  biahes  twice. 

untirohd,  dereptnte^  suddenly,  all  at  once. 

atrasdo,  tardy,  behind-hand. 

entbnseSf  then ;  antes^  before,  already ;  despues^  afterward. 

3.  Adverbs  of  Manner  and  Quality. —  To  express  the  manner 
or  quality  of  an  action  the  Chamorros  use  either  a  prefix  to  the 
verb  or  adjective,  an  illustrative  adverb  like  taiguini  (thus),  or  a 
phrase  formed  by  the  preposition  kalang  (like)  and  an  object ;  or 
they  may  use  an  adjective  or  denominative  verb  to  describe  an 
action,  placing  the  verb  indicating  the  action  in  the  infinitive  form. 
Thus,  *  The  crow  flies  swiftly '  is  rendered  Sahyao  gumupo  i  dga, 
which  is  literally  *  Swift  to  fly  is  the  crow,'  or,  in  better  English, 
*  The  crow  is  swift  in  flying.'  In  the  same  way  nearly  all  derivative 
adverbs  ending  in  English  in  -iy  (Spanish  -mente,  French  -meftt,) 
may  be  used  as  adjectives  or  denominative  verbs. 

Adverbial  Prefixes : 
well,  g6f-,  g6f-,  g6s-; 
ill,  chat-  (from  the  Malayan  jahat^  ill). 
Nearly,  almost,  on  the  point  of,  katna-,  k6-. 
Easily,  readily,  liable  to,  prone  to,  gus^-. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  formation  of  many  words  in 
Chamorro  can  readily  be  traced  to  the  use  of  some  of  these  parti- 
cles prefixed  to  verbs.  Thus  from  gof,  well,  and  /«,  see,  we  have 
the  verb  goflii^  or  as  it  is  usually  written  gufliiy  '  to  love,'  literally, 
'to  see  well.'  From  this,  by  the  interposition  of  the  particle  in 
before  the  radical  vowel  (which  has  the  effect  of  modifying  it  to  / ), 
we  have  the  noun  love,  giniflii.  By  prefixing  the  particle  a-,  which 
has  a  reciprocal  sense,  we  have  aguflii,  friend,  friends  being  those 
who  look  well,  or  kindly,  at  one  another.  In  the  same  way  a  great 
many  words  are  plainly  traced  to  the  prefix  chat,  ill  or  bad,  and  Hi, 
to  see ;  chatlii,  to  hate,  literally,  *  to  look  ill '  at  some  one ;  and  from 


3 1 0  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

it  are  formed  chinatlU,  hatred,  and  other  derivatives.  In  a  similar 
way  from  halom^  in,  and  the  prefixes  gef  and  chat  are  formed  the 
"wor^s  gefhinalom,  generous  ( *  kind-interior ' ),  and  chathinalom^  mean 
(*  bad-interior ').  The  possibility  of  tracing  many  words  to  their  origi- 
nal sources  is  an  interesting  feature  of  the  Chamorro  langruage, 
showing  clearly  that  the  words  were  formed  by  the  Chamorros 
themselves,  who  use  them  in  their  primitive  sense.  This  is  a  sharp 
contrast  to  our  use  in  English  of  such  words  as  benevolent,  mal- 
evolent, benediction,  malediction,  benefactor,  malefactor,  the  signifi- 
cance of  the  component  parts  of  which  are  seldom  brought  to  the 
mind  of  the  speaker. 

Comparison.  —  In  answering  the  question  *  How  ? '  the  Chamor- 
ros have  a  series  of  adverbs  formed  by  the  prepositional  prefix  tai^ 
like,  and  the  adverbs  of  place  here,  there,  yonder,  forming  words 
which  are  all  rendered  by  the  English  *  thus '  — 

haf taimano  ?  how  (literally,  what-like-which)  ? 
taigttiniy  thus,  like  this  (here)  ; 
taigenao,  thus,  like  that  (there)  ; 
taiguihCy  thus,  like  that  (yonder)  ; 
taiguineh&i  just  like  this. 

Examples :  Umafatinas  i  pinto-mo  gi  tano  taiguihe  i  Langit. 
Thy  will  shall  be  done  on  earth  like  (yonder)  in  Heaven. 

4.  Adverbs  of  Measure  and  Degree. — The  measure  or 
degree  of  an  action  or  quality  are  usually  expressed  by  prefixes,  as 
has  been  shown  in  treating  of  the  verb  and  the  adjective.  The 
most  common  of  these  prefixes  are  : 

sen-,  very,  most ;  taotaohdy  truly  human  ; 

sesen-,^  exceedingly;  magahethd,  quite  true; 

ch^-i  equally ;  Id-,  more,  a  little  more ; 

achd-|  equally ;  chat-,  incompletely,  imperfectly ; 

'hd  (suffix),  truly  quite ;  pindt-,  excessively,  too  greatly ; 

-fia  (suffix J,  more. 

Among  the  independent  adverbs  of  this  character  are  : 


^Sen  and  sesen  are  in  all  probability  identical  with  the  Nahuatl  cen  (i^»)  and  cecen 
(zezen)f  introduced  in  early  times  by  priests  or  soldiers  from  Mexico.  Thus  we  have 
in  Nahuatl  kualli,  good ;  zen  kualli^  very  good ;  %nen  kualli^  exceedingly  good. 


SAFFORD]  THE   CHAMORRO  LANGUAGE    OF  GUAM  3II 

megce,  or  megai^  greatly,  much ;         kdtnahdy  nearly,  almost ; 
dtdidiy  or  dtdidiy  a  little ;  mampos^  excessively,  too  much ; 

achat guay  equally ;  taloy  more  (repetition)  ; 

nahongy  sufficiently,  enough ;  lokuCy  besides,  also ; 

paloy  the  rest,  the  remainder. 

Adopted  from  the  Spanish  are  :  mas,  more ;  menoSy  less ;  dema- 
sido,  too  much. 

5.  Adverbs  of  Modality: 

magahety  truly,  certainly ;  siftay  possibly ; 

magahethdy  very  truly,  quite  certainly ;  siHahdy  quite  possibly ; 

sen-  (prefix),  truly;  tisifiay  impossibly; 

buentey  perhaps,  //,  not; 

huguatiy  doubtfully ;  sentiy  not  at  all ; 

enao-mindy  therefore ;  gin  siftay  if  possible. 

6.  Affirmation  and  Negation  : 

hunggatiy  yes;  ahiy  no; 

hiioy  yes ;  senahiy  no  indeed ; 

hikudy  I  don't  know ;  tisifiay  it  is  impossible ; 

siflay  it  may  be  so ;  chamo  /  (precative)  do  not ! 

magahety  it  is  true ;  timagahety  it  is  not  true ; 

mandagCy  it  is  false ;  semnandagCy  it  is  quite  false ; 

tayay  nothing ;  sentayahdy  absolutely  nothing  at  all. 

Interrogatives.  —  Several  of  the  interrogatives  used  by  the 
ancient  Chamorros  have  become  obsolete ;  among  them  fiay  how 
many,^  used  in  asking  questions  of  time,  as  *  how  many  days  ? ' 
fafia,  how  many,  in  asking  questions  as  to  the  number  of  living 
things ;  and  fiiyaiy  how  many,  in  asking  questions  as  to  measure- 
ments, as  *  how  many  fathoms,  or  arm-lengths  ? '  In  the  same  way 
fahafay  how  many  times,  is  no  longer  used.  These  words  have 
been  supplanted  by  kuantoSy  how  many ;  and  kuantos  bcseSy  kuantos 
bialteSy  kuantos  tiros,  how  many  times,  how  many  trips,  how  many 
shots,  adopted  from  the  Spanish.  The  Spanish  porquiy  'why,'  is 
also  used. 

In  many  cases  the  interrogative  is  followed  by  the  locate  parti- 
cle 7iae  (or  nai^ : 

1  Identical  with  the  Samoan  fia,  Tongan  fihuy  New  Zealand  hiay  how  many.  See 
Am.  Anthr,y  vol.  v,  p.  526;  reprint,  p.  43. 

AM.  ANTM.,  N.  S.,  7 — 21. 


I  I 


3 1 2  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

ngaian  nae  ?  when  ?  at  what  time  ? 

mano  nae  ?  where  ?  at  which  place  ? 

mano  ?  whither  ?  to  which  place  ? 

guafia  ?  is  it  true  that  ? 

ada,  peradventure ;  as  ada  ti  mauieg}  is  it  peradventure  not  good  ? 

haf  a  ?  why  ?  what  for  ?    Porki^  why  (from  Span,  porqui)  is  now  used. 

haftaimano  ?  haf ataimano  ?    how  ?  what  like  ? 

XL  —  Prepositions 

1.  Classes  of  Prepositions.  —  The  Chamorro  has  a  few  primi- 
tive prepositions,  some  of  which  are  used  independently,  others  as 
prefixes,  and  others  as  suffixes.  Like  other  languages  it  contains 
many  compound  prepositions  indicating  time,  place,  or  order,  com- 
posed of  a  noun  and  one  or  two  prepositions ;  as,  *  on  top  of,'  '  inside 

I '  of,'  *  at  the  front  of.' 

2.  Gi.  —  This  preposition  is  the  most  frequent  of  all.  It  has  vari- 
ous shades  of  meaning,  being  used  like  the  Latin  ad  (to)  followed 

i .  by  the  accusative ;  or  in  some  cases  like  the  Latin  apud  or  in  (at) 

followed  by  the  ablative,  and  like  the  English  at  (German  an)  in 
what  may  be  called  the  locative.  When  it  is  followed  by  the 
definite  article  /,  it  combines  with  it,  remaining  unchanged.     When 

j :  followed  by  the  locative  article  iya,  it  forms  the  combination  giya. 

When  followed  by  the  article  si^  used  before  the  names  of  persons, 
it  is  dropped,  and  the  latter  becomes  as, 

i  tasty  the  sea ;  gi  tasi^  to  the  sea,  by  the  sea. 

/  tdnoy  the  earth  ;  gi  tdno,  on  the  earth. 

iangity  heaven,  sky ;  gi  langity  in  heaven. 

lamasuy  table ;  gi  lamasa^  at  the  table. 

iya  hitay  our  house  (Fr.  chez  nous) ;  giya  hitay  at  our  house,  with 

us,  in  our  keeping. 

iya  HagadHay  Agafia ;  giy^  Hagadtiay  at  or  to  Agafia. 

si  Huany  John  ;  as  Huany  to  or  with  John. 

3.  Nu.  —  This  preposition  is  also  very  much  used,  and  its  use 
is  sometimes  difficult  for  a  foreigner  to  understand.  It  may  be 
translated  'with,'  'from,'  'by,'  'in,'  or  'of,'  and  is  used  in  many 
cases  where  in  Latin  the  noun  would  be  put  in  the  ablative  without 
a  preposition.     In  constructions  where,  according  to  the  usual  Eng- 


'I 


1  ■ 

■ 


I 

t 
} 


safford]  the  CHAMORRO  LANGUAGE   OF  GUAM  313 

lish  form,  the  verb  would  have  a  direct  and  indirect  object,  corres- 
ponding to  the  dative  case  of  the  person  and  the  accusative  of  the 
thing  (*  He  gave  grain  to  the  Athenians '),  the  usage  of  the  Chamorro 
language  corresponds  to  the  Latin  accusative  of  person  and  the 
ablative  of  thing ;  as,  Athenienses  fruinento  doncnit^  *  he  presented 
the  Athenians  with  grain.'     Examples : 

Nae-ham  pdgo  nu  /  agon-mamey  Give  us  today  our  bread,  lit. ,  *  Pre- 
sent us  this  day  with  our  bread. ' 

Puta  i  chandiha  nu  /  sisi^  Cut  the  watermelon  with  the  knife. 

Nafanlibre-ham  nu  /  tailaye^  Deliver-us  from  evil. 

Maddlalag  hao  nu  i  famaguon^  You  were  pursued  by  the  boys. 

Hachahlao  i  kahet  nu  /  akaguefia^  He  caught  the  orange  with  his  left. 

Nalie-yo  nu  /  lachi-ho^  Convince  me  (cause  me  to  see)  of  my  error. 

Hafahague  yd  nu  i paki-Hdy  He  threatened  me  with  his  gun. 

Hafanague  yd  si  Pali  nu  /  gramatikay  The  priest  instructed  me  in 
grammar. 

TisiHayd  maUfa  nu  hamyo,  I  cannot  be  forgetful  of  you. 

In  English  the  usual  forms  of  these  expressions  would  be :  Give 
us  our  bread,  Show  me  my  error,  The  priest  taught  me  grammar, 
etc. 

4.  Yan.  —  The  primitive  signification  of  this  word  is  that  of 
the  conjunction  *and.*  It  is,  however,  used  as  a  preposition,  signi- 
fying with,  together  with,  in  company  with.  In  the  Chamorro  the 
use  of  this  preposition  is  not  nearly  so  common  as  in  European 
languages.  Thus,  Go  with  him,  is  rendered:  Hanao  enhamyo.  Go 
ye  two  ;  or  Ddlalag  gui.  Follow  him.  With  whom  did  you  come 
hither?  is  rendered:  Hayi  gachochong'-mo  magi}  or.  Who  (was) 
your  companioning  hither  ?  I  will  go  with  father :  Si  tata  gacliong- 
ho  kumanaoy  or.  Father  (is)  my  companion  to  go  (in  going). 

5.  Gine,  or  gini.  —  This  signifies  'from.'  Unlike  the  corres- 
ponding preposition  in  the  Polynesian  dialects,  it  is  quite  distinct 
from  the  directive  particle  (jnagi).  It  is  often  used  as  a  prefix,  as 
Gim-mano  hao}  From- where  (art)  thou  ? — forming  a  verb  which  is 
conjugated  like  an  intransitive ;  thus,  the  plural  of  the  preceding 
compound  is  Ma?i^m'fnano  hamyo  ?  From-where  (are)  ye  ?  Gini- 
Hagat  yo,  from-Agat  (am)  I,  is  conjugated  like  a  verb,  *to-come- 
from-Agat,*  taking  forms  which  correspond  to  the  progressive,  *  I 


3 1 4  AMERICAN  ANTHR  OPOL  O  CIS  T  [n.  s.  ,  7,  1905 

am-come-from-Agating,'  etc.  This  preposition  can  however  be  used 
independently ;  as,  Gini  /  maHaina-ta  as  Adan  yan  Eva^  From  our 
parents  Adam  and  Eve  ;  Ha-nahuyong  gini  /  taya  i  liion  yan  i  tiliian^ 
He-made-come-out  from  the  nothing  the  visible  and  the  invisible. 

6.  Falagy  malag.  —  This  corresponds  in  usage  with  the  preced- 
ing, but  has  the  opposite  significance.  With  a  noun  or  an  adverb 
denoting  direction  it  forms  a  compound  verb,  as  Falag-tate!  (Go) 
to  the  rear !  Malag-tate  i  patgofi,  the  boy  went  to  the  rear.  Falag 
is  used  in  the  imperative,  and  malag  in  the  present  and  past  tenses 
of  the  indicative  mode.     In  the  same  way  we  have : 

falag'tnonay  toward  the  front,  to  the  front,  forward ; 
falag'katatiy  toward  the  east,  to  the  east,  eastward ; 
faiag'luchan,  toward  the  west,  to  the  west,  westward ; 
falag-halomtanoy  toward  the  inland,  to  the  forest  (Samoan  tut  a), 
faiag-tasiy  toward  the  sea,  to  the  sea,  seaward  (Samoan  i  tai),^ 

7.  lyon. —  This  may  be  considered  as  a  phrase  signifying  'prop- 
erty of,'  *  pertaining  to,*  or  *  belonging  to,'  formed  from  the  noun  iyo, 
property,  or  attribute,  and  the  ligation  n,  '  of*  It  has  already  been 
shown,  under  Possessives,  how  independent  possessive  pronouns  are 
formed  from  this  root ;  as,  iyo-ko,  my  or  mine  (property -of-me) ;  iyon- 
mamc,  our  or  ours  (property-of-us).  In  the  same  way  we  have 
iyon  langit,  belonging  to  heaven,  celestial ;  iyo7i  tano,  belonging  to 
earth,  terrestrial ;  iyon  tataho,  belonging  to  my  father,  etc. 

8.  G  e,  or  gai. —  This  may  be  considered  as  a  preposition  signi- 
fying '  with,*  although  it  is  usually  employed  as  a  prefix  to  a  noun 
and  is  translated  as  a  verb,  to  have.  Thus,  gdi-salape  si  Huan^ 
may  be  translated  either  John  has  money,  or  with-money  (is)  John ; 
gai-salape  na  taotao,  may  be  rendered  *  moneyed  man  *;  gdi-gima  hao^ 
thou  hast  a  home,  or  with-a-home-art  thou ;  gdi-payo  yd,  with-an- 
umbrella-am  I,  or  I  have  an  umbrella. 

9.  Tae,  or  tai. —  This  is  the  opposite  of  gdi,  indicating  non- 
possession,  and  may  be  regarded  as  a  preposition,  *  without.*  Thus, 
tdi'Salape  si  Huan,  may  be  translated,  John  has  no  money,  or  with- 
out-money  is  John,  or  moneyless  is  John.     In  the  same  way  we 

^  The  Chamorros  do  not  use  the  expressions  *  landward  *  (f  uta)  and  *  seaward  *  (t 
tai)  to  the  same  extent  as  the  Samoans  and  other  Polynesians.  They  usually  designate 
boundaries,  directions,  sides  of  the  house,  etc.,  by  the  points  of  the  compass. 


SAFFORD]  THE   CHAMORRO  LANGUAGE    OF  GUAM  31$ 

have  tdi'tutulwn,  without  beginning ;  tdi-hinekog,  without  end,  end- 
less, infinite  ;  tdi-c/Ui,  without  limit,  boundless  ;  tdi-minapot,  without 
difficulty,  easy ;  tdi-aflao  i  lake,  without  fear  is  the  man,  fearless  is 
the  man. 

10.  Mi  and  e. —  These  may  be  considered  prepositional  prefixes, 
mi  signifying  '  full  of,'  abounding  in,  and  e  signifying  lacking  in,  scant 
of,  poor  in ;  as,  mi-salape,  abounding  in  money,  rich ;  tm-hito,  full 
of  lice  ;  e-hinaso^  lacking  in  understanding,  scant  of  brains. 

11.  Elalalig. —  This  is  an  independent  preposition  signifying 
'  like,'  like  unto  ;  as  kalaHg  giiaho,  like  me  ;  kalahg  patgon,  like  a 
child. 

1 2.  Tai. —  This  prefix,  when  used  with  demonstratives,  may  be 
considered  a  preposition,  *  like,*  as  taiguini,  like  this,  thus,  so ; 
taiguenao,  like  that ;  taiguihe,  like  yonder.  Tumafigis-hao  taiguihe  i 
palo,  thou  didst  weep  like  the  rest  yonder  (like  yonder  the  others). 

13.  Compound  Prepositions. — The  following  compound  prepo- 
sitions are  closely  connected  with  corresponding  adverbs  of  place 
and  direction.  They  are  formed  from  roots  which  may  be  consid- 
ered nouns : 

fona^  mona,  front ;  gimena,  in  front  of,  opposite  to,  before. 

tate,  rear  ;  gitdte,  in  rear  of,  back  of,  behind. 

hiilo,  top ;  gihilo,  on  top  of,  above,  upon. 

papa,  bottom ;  gipdpd,  underneath,  below,  under. 

halom,  inside,  interior ;       gihdlom,  inside  of,  within,  in. 
huyong,  outside,  exterior ;  gihiyo7ig,  outside  of,  without,  out  of. 
entalo,  midst,  middle  ;        gi-entalo,  in  the  midst  of,  between,  among. 
agapa,  right  hand  ;  £^'^g<^P<^,  on  the  right   side  of,    on   the 

right. 
akagiie,  lefl ;  gi-akague,  on  the  lefl  side  of,  on  the  left  of. 

lagOy  north ;  gUdgo,  on  the  north  of,  north  of,  north 

from. 
haya,  south ;  gihdya,  on  the  south  of,  south  of,  south 

from. 
katan,  east ;  gikatan,  on  the  east  of,  east  of,  east  from. 

luchan,  west ;  gilichan,  on  the  west  of,  west  of,  west  from. 

14.  Prepositional  Suffixes.  —  In  expressing  an  action  which 
is  directed  to  or  for  some  one  or  something,  instead  of  an  indepen- 


3l6  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

dent  preposition,  a  suffix  is  used,  which  combines  enclidcally  with 
the  verb  in  somewhat  the  same  way  as  the  Latin  prefix  ad  (at)  is 
combined  with  mirari  (to  wonder)  to  form  admirari,  from  which  we 
derive  our  verb  'to  admire/  These  suffixes,  as  we  have  already 
seen  in  connection  with  the  verb,  are  -e,  -ye,  -ge.     Examples : 

told,  to  spit ;  told^,  to  spit  at 

tunog,  to  lower ;  tunogt  si  JLuis,  lower  for  Louis. 

tcdag,  to  look ;  talagty  to  look  at,  to  look  toward. 

iayuyui,  to  pray ;  tayttyutt  yd  si  Yuus,  pray  for  me  to  God. 

sangan,  to  say ;  sarigant,  to  say  to  (some  one). 

adingan,  to  speak  ;  adingatity  to  speak  to,  to  address. 

chule,  chuli,  to  carry ;  ckuliye  yd,  chulie  yd,  carry  for  me. 

sausau,  to  wipe  off;  sausauge  si  nana  i  lamasa  wipe  off  for 

mother  the  table. 

15.  Prepositions  Adopted  from  the  Spanish.  —  On  account 
of  a  misunderstanding  of  the  above  forms  and  constructions  of  a 
similar  nature  the  early  missionaries  introduced  into  the  Chamorro 
the  prepositions  pot  {por),  for ;  and  para,  to,  for,  in  order  to.  They 
also  introduced  the  Spanish  prepositions  antes  de,  despues  de  (after), 
fuera  de  (beyond),  contra  (against),  and  many  others.  In  the  cate- 
chism written  for  the  natives  such  expressions  as  the  following  are 
common : 

para  hamyo,  for  ye  ; 

para  utaka,  in  order  to  get ; 

para  undhanao,  in  order  to  remove  (cause  to  go) ; 

pot  i  tinayuyut,  by  the  mediation,  by  the  praying ; 

pot  i  minaaftao  nu  sasalagtian,  through  the  fear  of  hell ; 

con  todo  i  tninalagofla,  with  all  his-will. 

para  uasii  todo  i  tnanmagas  yan  i  mandikiki  na  isao,  in  order  to 
pardon  all  the  great  and  small  sins. 

XII.  —  Conjunctions 

I .  Classes  of  Conjunctions. —  In  Chamorro  there  are  certain 
words  which  may  be  regarded  as  pure  conjunctions ;  others  may  be 
regarded  as  conjunctive  phrases  formed  by  joining  certain  preposi- 
tions to  demonstratives,  while  others  now  in  use  have  been  adopted 
from  the  Spanish. 


SAFFORD]  THE   CHAMORRO  LANGUAGE   OF  GUAM  317 

2.  Original  Conjunctions.  — The  original  conjunctions  are : 
ya,  and  (joining  clauses);  laO|  but; 

yan,  and  (joining  words);  sa,  for,  because; 

pat,  or  ;  gin,  if; 

na,  that  (with  present  or  past)  ;  kao,  whether ; 

nu,  that  (with  future);  an,  if,  when  ; 

lii,  nevertheless ;  y*ui,  if,  provided  that. 

3.  Compound  Conjunctions. —  These  are  formed  by  affixing  the 
preposition  mina  (on  account  of)  to  the  demonstratives,  or  the  loca- 
tive particle  nae  (or  nai^  to  simple  conjunctions,  assuming  an 
adverbial  sense  and  joining  a  subordinate  to  a  principal  clause 
in  a  complex  sentence : 

enao-minft,  therefore,  on  that  account ; 

ayu-minft,  therefore,  on  yonder  account ; 

este-minft,*  therefore,  on  this  account ; 

annae  or  anae,  where,  when ;  as  Matae  gi  kiluus  anae  hachuda  i 
hagd-Hay  He  died  on  the  cross,  where  he  shed  his  blood.  Anae  matae  i 
asagua-mo  .  .  .  when  thy  wife  died.  .  . 

ginnae,  ginae,  when,  if  (German  wenn), 

yagin,  if,  provided  that ;  as  Yagin  /  taotao  haguguflii  si  Yuus  .  .  . 
if  man  loves  God when  a  man  loves  God. 

4.  Conjunctive  Phrases  adopted  from  the  Spanish. —  In 
certain  cases  where  the  Chamorro  had  no  exact  expression  to  cor- 
respond with  a  Spanish  idiom,  the  early  missionaries  introduced  the 
Spanish  idiom  itself;  as  the  correlative  asikomo  {asi  comd),  as  .  .  . 
so  ;  masea,  maskesea  {mas  que  sea),  although ;  kontoke  {con  todo 
que),  notwithstanding ;  mientras  ke,  while,  during  the  time  that ; 
antes  ke,  before  the  time  that ;  despues  ke,  after  the  time  that ; 
para  ke,  in  order  that,  so  that ;  pot  ke  {porque)  because  that.' 

Sometimes  there  is  a  combination  of  Spanish  and  Chamorro 
forms,  as  in  such  sentences  as  **  As  pants  the  hart  for  cooling  streams, 
so  longs  my  soul  for  thee,"  the  initial  as  of  which  would  be  rendered 


1  Este  is  adopted  from  the  Spanish  ;  it  has  almost  entirely  superseded  the  original 
ini  of  the  Chamorro. 

2  The  necessity  for  the  use  of  the  letter  k  instead  of  the  Spanish  c  and  qu  has  already 
been  explained  in  speaking  of  the  changes  taking  place  in  the  vowels  of  such  words  as 
kolaty  fence  ;  i  kelat,  the  fence  (from  the  Spanish  corral )f  which  would  have  to  change 
the  initial  letter  c  to  qu  before  e  if  the  Spanish  system  of  orthography  were  followed. 


3l8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

by  the  Spanish  asikomo,  and  the  correlative  so  by  the  Chamorro 
taiguenao  or  taiguihCy  signifying  *  thus.*  The  expression  *  so  as 
not/  is  rendered  in  Chamorro  para  umunga. 

5.  Interrogatives. —  In  case  of  the  use  of  a  question  in  a  sub- 
ordinate clause  the  interrogative  adverb  is  used ;  as  Nihe  talii  haf  a- 
taimano  uta-nafatdibre  i  anti-ia,  Come  let-us-see  how  we-shall- 
make-free  our-souls. 

6.  Connective  Particles.  —  The  ligations  na  and  -n  have 
already  been  explained  in  treating  of  the  adjective  and  the  noun.* 

XIII.  —  Interjections 

1.  True  Interjections.  — These  are  used  as  exclamations,  de- 
noting strong  emotion.  Some  of  them  have  evidently  been  adopted 
from  the  Spanish : 

Dl,  Behold  !     Look  ! 

Difth&i  Just  look  !     Only  look  ! 

Heiy  Hoe,  Hello  !    Oh  ! 

Uhu  (without  opening  the  lips),  Ah  ! 

Ae  (pain,  or  shock),  Ouch  ! 

Nihe,  Nihi  (exhortation),  Come!  (Lat.  veniU,) 

Ptif  (aversion).  Ugh ! 

He,  Hu,  Pu  (contempt).  Pshaw ! 

2.  Imperatives  used  as  Interjections  : 

Lily  Liftht,  Look  !     Just  look  ! 

Gus6,  Hurry  !     Be  quick  ! 

Sahyao,  Hurry  !     Go  quickly  ! 

Falago,  Hurry  !     Go  !     Run  ! 

L&ttanao,  Begone  !     Get  out !     Go  away  ! 

P&kak&i  Silence  !     Hush  !     Hold  your  tongue  ! 

Adahe  I     Beware  !     Be  careful !     Look  out ! 

Cho  (to  animals)  Whoa  !     Stop  ! 

3.  From  the  Spanish.  —  Expressions  containing  the  names 
Yujis  (Dios),  Hcsus,  Maria,  are  not  held  to  be  profane  in  Cha- 
morro. As  in  the  Spanish,  they  are  frequently  used,  and  on  the 
slightest  provocation : 


^  Am,  Anthr.y  vol.  v,  p.  519;  reprint  p.  36. 


SAFFORD]  THE  CHAMORRO  LANGUAGE   OF  GUAM  319 

Yuus-maasei  Thanks ! 

Hesus  (joy,  admiration ),  How  beautiful !     How  strange  ! 

Hesus  ke  (contempt).  What  a  miserable  .  .  .  ! 

Asaena  (wonder) ,  Lord  !     Good  gracious ! 

Ohal&  (desire),  I  hope  so !     Would  to  God  ! 

Ai  de  mi  (sorrow),  Alas  for  me  !     Poor  me  ! 

4.  Vocative  suffix  . —  After  nouns  in  the  vocative  case  the 
suffix  lac  is  used ;  as  Tata-lao,  O  father !  Francisco4ao^  O  St. 
Francis ! 


BOOK   REVIEWS 

The  Chukchee.  I — Material  Culture.  By  Waldemar  Bogoras. 
Memoir  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  The  Jesup 
North  Pacific  Expedition,  Vol.  VII.  Leyden  :  E.  J.  Brill.  1904. 
4**,  280  pp.,  maps,  plates,  and  figures. 

The  Jesup  North  Pacific  Expedition,  the  funds  for  which  were  pro- 
vided by  Mr  Morris  K.  Jesup,  President  of  the  American  Museum  of 
Natural  History,  New  York,  and  which  was  organized  and  carried  out 
under  the  direction  of  Prof.  Franz  Boas,  had  for  its  prime  object,  by  a 
careful  and  thorough  study  of  the  primitive  tribes  still  surviving  on  the 
northern  coasts  of  the  Pacific  ocean,  the  elucidation  of  the  great  problem 
of  racial,  linguistic,  and  cultural  connections  between  the  two  continents 
in  primeval  times. 

The  results  of  that  great  undertaking  are  now  steadily  being  pub- 
lished. So  far,  thirteen  comprehensive  issues  on  the  archeology,  linguis- 
tics, and  ethnology  of  the  tribes  of  the  coast  of  North  America,  richly 
illustrated,  have  appeared.  Now  we  have  a  new,  comprehensive  volume 
on  the  most  important  tribe  of  extreme  northeastern  Siberia  —  the  so- 
called  Chukchee.  This  volume  is  by  Mr  W.  Bogoras,  the  well-known 
ethnologist^  who  during  many  years  has  made  extensive  linguistic  and 
anthropological  studies  among  this  tribe  and  its  neighbors ;  and  it  is  to 
his  close  studies  that  we  are  indebted  for  the  discovery  that  the  Chukchee, 
the  Koryak,  and  the  Kamchadal  are  of  the  same  linguistic  stock.  For 
the  solution  of  the  problem  of  the  Jesup  Expedition,  the  close  investiga- 
tion of  the  Chukchee  is  of  the  highest  value. 

The  Chukchee  belong  to  that  mysterious  group  of  North  Asiatic 
tribes  (including  the  Gilyak,  Yukaghir,  Cott,  Yenisei  Ostiak,  and  Aino) 
which  have  been  called  paleoasiatic  by  L.  Schrenck,  and  whose  enig- 
matic trait  is  the  complete  isolation  of  their  languages  among  themselves 
as  well  as  from  the  great  linguistic  stocks  of  Asia.  The  isolated  character 
of  the  Chukchee,  moreover,  as  is  shown  by  Mr  Bogoras  through  his  ex- 
tensive measurements  (of  about  two  hundred  persons)  and  observations, 
is  not  limited  to  their  language.  Like  the  Aino,  the  Chukchee  are  enig- 
matic from  an  anthropological  point  of  view.  Though  having  amalga- 
mated for  many  centuries  with  the  Mongolian  tribes,  they  present  features 
strikingly  different  from  the  Mongolian  type. 

320 


BOOK  REVIEWS  321 

"  Their  eyes  are  straight,  and  frequently  as  large  as  those  of  Caucas- 
ians, and  XhQ plica  occurs  but  rarely  among  them.  Their  hair  is  often  wavy 
or  even  curly.  .  .  .  Fifteen  percent  of  the  Chukchee  of  the  Pacific 
coast  have  dark-brown  or  even  light-brown  hair,  and  beards  are  more 
frequently  seen  among  them  than  among  the  Lamut  or  the  Yakut.*' 

Their  folklore,  which  has  little  in  common  even  with  that  of  the 
Koryak  —  their  immediate  neighbors  and  a  closely  related  tribe  —  af- 
fords additional  significant  testimony  as  to  their  isolated  position. 

To  this  enigmatic  people  Mr  Bogoras  is  to  devote  four  large  volumes, 
treating  of  their  material  culture,  religion,  mythology,  and  social  organi- 
zation, besides  their  linguistics,  which  forms  a  separate  series.  The 
volume  now  before  us  takes  up  the  material  culture  only  (trade,  reindeer 
and  dog  breeding,  hunting,  fishing,  war,  habitation,  food,  manufactures, 
clothing,  games,  etc.),  giving  an  exhaustive  and  highly  scientific  treat- 
ment of  these  topics. 

The  rule  of  modern  ethnology  —  to  describe  every  ethnographical 
fact  or  object  with  the  minute  objectivity  of  the  naturalist,  not  neglecting 
even  the  smallest  detail,  but  considering  each  as  important  —  has  been 
observed  by  the  author  in  the  strictest  manner.  At  the  same  time  he  has 
been  able  to  give  to  his  objective  descriptions  an  animated  and  life-like 
setting  by  numerous  comparisons  and  enlivening  details  which  reflect 
views  of  the  Chukchee  themselves.  These  he  was  able  to  present,  owing 
to  his  intimate  acquaintance  with  the  language  and  the  habits  of  thought 
of  the  tribe  described,  as  well  as  owing  to  his  comprehensive  under- 
standing of  the  general  problems  of  ethnology.  We  must  await  the 
continuation  of  this  work  before  drawing  all  the  interesting  inferences 
suggested  by  the  present  volume ;  but  it  already  presents,  besides  an  ex- 
haustive picture  of  the  material  life  of  the  tribe  described,  a  great  store 
of  facts  highly  suggestive  for  a  comparison  with  similar  cultures  of  other 
primitive  tribes,  as  well  as  for  general  ethnological  conclusions. 

From  the  first  point  of  view,  the  chapters  devoted  to  reindeer  breed- 
ing and  driving,  the  most  characteristic  feature  of  the  arctic  regions  of 
northern  Europe  and  Siberia,  are  of  great  interest.  As  far  as  we  know, 
this  is  the  first  attempt  at  so  detailed  a  description  of  reindeer-breeding, 
and  it  were  well  if  it  were  followed  by  similar  descriptions  of  the  peculiar 
form  of  breeding  among  other  arctic  tribes.  The  absence,  or  at  least  the 
fragmentary  character,  of  such  information,  is  as  yet  the  main  obstacle 
to  a  solution  of  the  question  as  to  the  origin  and  gradual  spread  of  the 
domestication  of  the  reindeer.  How  important  such  exhaustive  inquiries 
are,  can  be  seen  by  the  difficulties  experienced  by  Mr  Bogoras  himself 
in  discussing  the  question. 


322  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

The  vast  body  of  data  brought  forward  by  the  author,  including  tra- 
ditions and  survivals  in  modem  life,  suggest  that,  among  the  Chukchee, 
dog-breeding  preceded  reindeer-breeding,  the  latter  being  probably  bor- 
rowed from  theTungus,  the  reindeer  people /ar^jcr^//i?«^^/  but,  strangely 
enough,  the  reindeer-race  of  the  Chukchee,  as  it  seems  to  Mr  B(>goras, 
is  quite  different  from  that  of  the  Lamut,  the  one  of  all  the  Tungus  tribes 
nearest  allied  to  the  Chukchee.     However,  this  question  is  still  an  open 
one,  because,  in  the  present  state  of  our  information  about  racial  differences 
of  the  reindeer  among  all  the  arctic  tribes  of  Asia,  it  is  impossible  to  decide 
whether  the  physical  differences  are  due  to  original  racial  differences  or 
to  mere  differences  in  the  methods  of  breeding  or  using  the  animals.   For 
instance,  the  original,  and  even  now  the  most  usual,  form  of  reindeer 
locomotion  among  the  Tungus  tribes  was  by  riding    with  the  saddle 
fastened  on  the  neck  ;  the  Chukchee  drive  on  sledges.     For  so  slender 
an  animal,  and  one  with  so  little  endurance  as  the  reindeer,  such  differ- 
ent forms  of  treatment  are  factors  that,  in  the  reviewer's  opinion,  are 
capable  of  producing,  in  the  long-run,  physical  differences  that  can  easily 
appear  as  differences  of  race.     Moreover,  as  far  as  the  present  writer's 
experience  goes,  the  Tungus  at  the  present  time  continue  to  increase  their 
herds  by  capturing  wild  animals  and  taming  them  \  but  it  is  not  so  with 
the  Chukchee,  and  this  is  not  an  unimportant  cause  for  producing  physi- 
cal differences  independent  of  original  descent.     As  it  is,  the  fiind  of 
information  about  the  Chukchee  manner  of  reindeer-breeding  is  a  valu- 
able contribution  to  this  question. 

Dog-breeding  is  treated  by  Mr  Bogoras  on  a  still  larger  scale.  Close 
investigation  and  comparison  of  the  methods  of  dog  breeding  and  driving 
among  the  different  peoples  of  Siberia  have  given  the  author  an  oppor* 
tunity  not  only  of  making  an  analysis  of  dog-driving  instructive  in  itself, 
but  also  of  deducing  interesting  inferences  as  to  the  great  cultural  influ- 
ences in  early  times  among  the  most  distant  tribes  of  the  North  Pacific- 
The  profusion  of  minute  details  presented  by  the  author  in  this  chapter, 
although  perhaps  a  little  tiresome  for  the  lay  reader,  are  of  great  value  to 
the  ethnologist.  Everywhere  we  find  old  methods  preserved  among  tribes 
that  for  centuries  have  lost  all  communication  (compare  the  sledges  of 
the  Chukchee  and  Kamchadal),  and  instructive  survivals  that  suggest  ideas 
of  relationship  between  tribes  separated  by  many  thousands  of  miles,  and 
seemingly  without  any  communication  (compare,  for  instance,  the  custon* 
of  the  Chukchee  of  putting  the  corpse,  at  a  funeral,  in  a  riding  position, 
astride,  and  the  usual  manner  of  riding  of  the  Gilyak). 

With  the  same  acuteness  of  observation  and  detail  as  to  nunutise, 


BOOK  REVIEWS  323 

the  author  treats  the  other  departments  of  material  culture,  making  his 
work  a  storehouse  of  facts  highly  suggestive  for  comparison  and  deduction, 
to  which  the  last  volume  of  the  publication  of  the  Expedition,  entitled 
'*  Summary  and  Final  Results,'*  will  be  devoted. 

Of  peculiar  interest  to  the  ethnologist  are  the  chapters  devoted  to 
ornament,  decorations,  hair-dressing,  and  tattooing.  Without  any  attempt 
at  theorizing,  the  author  simply  presents  facts,  and  the  facts  show  that  all 
these  phenomena  are  of  religious  origin.  He  says:  "The  tonsure  and 
fringe  are  resorted  to  whenever  it  is  thought  necessary,  for  superstitious 
reasons,  to  change  one's  appearance  ;  for  instance,  for  protecting  one's 
self  from  the  spirits  of  contagious  diseases,  or  by  a  murderer  to  conceal 
his  identity  from  the  revengeful  soul  of  his  victim"  (page  253). 

''  Childless  women  tattoo  on  both  cheeks  two  lines,  etc.,  and  this  is 
considered  as  one  of  the  charms  against  sterility.  .  .  .  Tattoo-marks  on 
men  are  intended  as  charms  against  spirits"  (pages  254,  256). 

'^Chukchee  men  and  women  embellish  their  persons  with  various 
adornments  of  rudest  fashion,  most  of  which  are  regarded  as  protecting 
charms  or  amulets.  Most  prominent  among  these  are  necklaces.  Some 
of  those  who  have  been  baptized  add  to  them  a  brass  crucifix.  .  .  . 
Middle-aged  men  often  wear  a  kind  of  head-band.  It  is  made  of  a  narrow 
strip  of  leather  adorned  at  intervals  with  a  few  large  beads.  These  orna- 
ments are  also  amulets.  In  olden  times  the  attachments  consisted  of 
small  blocks  of  wood  representing  protecting  spirits,  called  *  wooden 
manikins. '  ^  Similar  manikins  are  also  on  the  breast-bands  of  the 
women.  .  .  .  Many  men  wear  also  ear-ornaments,  generally  by  order  of 
the  sh  ans.  .  .  .  Single  beads  on  long  leather  strings  are  sewed  to  the 
clothe,    serving  at  the  same  time  both  as  charm  and  as  ornament. ' ' 

Tb  ornamental  designs  represent  also,  as  far  as  could  be  learned  from 
the  natives,  figures  of  religious  origin,  as  the  sun,  stars,  mountains,  rivers, 
and  so  on  ;  and  the  same  designs  are  to  be  found  tattooed  on  the  body. 

Attention  should  be  called  to  the  two  introductory  chapters,  contain- 
ing a  discussion  of  the  general  characteristics  of  the  tribe  ;  their  habitat, 
climate,  statistics,  anthropological  peculiarities,  and  lastly  some  consider- 
ations of  former  migrations,  drawn  from  linguistic  and  folkloristic  data, 
all  of  which  lead  to  the  curious  conclusion  of  a  southern  origin  of  the 
Chukchee.  One  tradition,  that  about  the  boa-constrictor,  deserves  par- 
ticular attention,  as  all  kinds  of  snakes  are  wholly  absent  from  the  modem 

^ ''  See  p.  258.  This  is  a  remarkable  fact,  because  wooden  manikins  are  very  com- 
mon all  over  northern  Asia.  See  my  paper  on  the  Inau,  in  the  Transactions  of  the  Rus- 
sian Anthrop.  Soc.,  1905." 


324  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,   1905 

habitat  of  the  Chukchee.  Strange  to  say,  a  similar  tradition  was  found 
by  the  present  writer  among  the  Orochee,  thousands  of  miles  distant  from 
the  Chukchee,  on  the  coast  of  the  Tatar  strait. 

The  volume  is  richly  illustrated  with  maps,  numerous  text  illustra- 
tions, and  plates,  all  bearing  on  and  elucidating  the  minute  descriptions 
of  the  text. 

Before  closing  I  will  take  the  liberty  of  correcting  a  slight  error  due 
to  misinterpretation  of  one  of  Schrenck's  plates.  In  the  chapter  on  dog- 
breeding,  the  author  gives  a  design  of  a  Chukchee  dog-harness,^  a  so- 
called  one-band  "oblique"  harness,  saying  that  "this  form  of  harness 
was  introduced  from  the  south,"  and  adding  that  "  it  is  in  use  among  the 
Amur  tribes,  as  may  be  seen  from  the  description  and  drawings  by 
Schrenck  (II,  plate  xxvi,  figs.  3,  4,  5)."  As  a  matter  of  fact  the  regular 
dog-harness  of  the  Amur  tribes,  that  of  the  Gilyak,  is  quite  different,  its 
peculiar  feature  being  the  absence  of  the  back-band,  the  dogs  pulling  by 
the  neck.  This  is  clearly  seen  from  the  description  in  the  text,  as  well  as 
in  Schrenck* s  plate  (figs.  2,  3)  quoted  by  the  author.  He  has  evidently 
been  misled  by  figs.  4  and  5.  The  upper  band,  which  he  took  for  a 
back-band,  really  serves  for  holding  a  head-decoration  for  the  dog,  used 
on  solemn  occasions. 

Speaking  of  the  senses  of  the  Chukchee,  the  author  says  that  *'  taboo 
against  bringing  into  the  sleeping-room  any  objects  connected  with  the 
hearths  and  households  of  other  families  is  founded  chiefly  upon  their 
unfamiliar  odor,"  referring  to  a  case  of  a  woman  having  fallen  sick 
when  seeing  an  old  Chukchee  wooden  case  brought  by  the  author  from 
another  place.  She  declared  that  "an  unfamiliar  odor  given  off  by  the 
case  made  her  feel  giddy  and  sick  "  (page  39).  I  would  not  try  to  ex- 
plain the  individual  case  cited  by  the  author,  but  I  think  thai  taboos 
connected  with  the  family  or  clan  fires  and  hearths  need  not  be  explained 
in  such  an  unusual  way.  It  would  be  more  rational  to  suppose  that  the 
"  sickness  "  of  the  woman  in  the  alleged  case  was  but  a  nervous  fit  asso- 
ciated with  the  fear  of  violating  a  taboo,  and  that  it  also  was  an  effect  of 
the  taboo,  not  its  cause.  Indeed,  we  know  many  cases  where  men  have 
suddenly  died  after  having  violated  a  taboo.  L.  Sternberg. 

Conferencias  del  Museo  NacionaL     Seed  on  de  Etnologia,    Num.  i.    Los 
Popolocas,     Por  el  Profesor  Dr  N.  Le6x.     Mexico  :  Imprenta  de 
Museo  Nacional.     1905.     8**,  28  pp. 
This  lecture,  delivered  at  the  Mexican  National  Museum  by  Dr  1  .e6n, 

r^sum^s  part  of  the  information  obtained  by  him  during  his  visit  among 

'  See  page  108,  fig.  25,  a. 


BOOK  REVIEWS  32$ 

the  Popolocas  in  i904-'o5  (the  detailed  monograph  will  appear  in  the 
Annals  of  the  Museum).  After  a  historical  introduction  and  some  notice 
of  the  confusion  concerning  the  use  and  interpretation  of  the  term  popo- 
locay  which  Brinton  once  proposed  to  bar  from  the  ethnic  vocabulary,  the 
author  sketches  briefly  the  ethnology  of  this  linguistic  stock,  whose  pre- 
columbian  habitat  was  the  southern  part  of  the  Tlaxcaltecan  territory. 
To-day  the  area  of  the  Popoloca  tongue  embraces  Azingo  and  Mezontla 
in  the  state  of  Puebla,  and  several  places  in  Oaxaca.  In  Guerrero  the 
Popolocas  are  almost  extinct,  and  such  of  them  as  are  said  to  exist  in 
Vera  Cruz  speak  Mixe.  The  Pupulucas  of  Guatemala  are  of  Cakchi- 
quel  lineage,  and  those  of  Nicaragua  of  Lenca  stock :  with  both  of  these 
the  Mexican  Popolocas  have  been  wrongly  affined  by  various  writers. 
Remnants  of  ancient  idolatry  flourish  among  them  and  witchcraft  is  very 
prevalent.  Indeed,  the  Catholic  priest  is  to  them  "  no  more  than  a  wiz- 
ard endowed  with  a  certain  power,  less,  however,  than  that  of  their  own.  *  * 
Endogamy  is  practised  and  the  religious  rites  of  the  Catholic  church  are 
added  to  by  many  old  heathen  ceremonies.  Snakes  are  much  venerated. 
The  influence  of  woman  in  society  is  great,  and  her  word  and  counsel  con- 
trol all  actions.  The  vocabulary  of  some  2,000  words  obtained  by  Dr 
Le6n  enabled  him,  by  comparison  with  Mixtec  and  Chuchona,  to  prove 
the  relationship  of  these  tongues.  The  physical  characters  of  these 
three  peoples  point  also  to  identity  of  race.  The  so-called  *' Mixtec 
eye  '*  (as  the  author  proposes  to  term  a  phenomenon  which  is  "  neither 
the  *  Mongolian  eye  '  nor  the  teratological  epicanthus '  * )  occurs  in  all 
individuals  of  pure  blood  among  the  Popolocas,  Mixtecs,  and  Chucones. 
The  archeological  remains  in  the  Popoloca  country  corroborate  these 
conclusions:  **The  Popolocas,  Chuchones,  and  Mixtecas  belong  to  the 
same  ethnic  family.'*  Alexander  F.  Chamberlain. 

La  Coleccion  Boggiani  de  Tipos  indlgenas  de  Sudamerica  Central,  Pub- 
licada  por  Robert  Lehmann-Nitsche,  Dr  phil.  et  med.  Buenos 
Aires,  1904.  Casa  Editora  de  R.  Rosauer,  Rivadavia  571.  Suple- 
mento.     Buenos  Aires:   1904. 

As  the  accompanying  brief  catalogue  in  Spanish  and  German  ex- 
plains, this  collection  of  100  photographs  (the  Supplement  adds  14 
more)  of  men,  women,  and  children,  of  various  Indian  tribes  of  central 
South  America,  is  the  posthumous  work  of  Guido  Boggiani,  the  ethnologist, 
who  fell  a  victim  to  some  of  the  savages  of  the  Gran  Chaco  a  year  or 
two  ago.  The  reproductions,  excellently  done,  are  on  cards,  rather 
larger  than  postals,  with  titles  in  Spanish  only ;  the  catalogue  gives  the 


326  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

German  translations,  however.     The  tribes  represented  are :  Sanapani, 
i;  Angait6y  3;  Lengua^'s;  belonging  to  the  Maskoi  stock.     Caduveo 
(Mbaya)y  15;  Toba,  i ;  Payagua,  6;  of  the  Guaicurti  stock.     Boior6, 
4.     Chamacoco,  79.     This  makes  altogether  a  most  valuable  album  for 
the  ethnologist  in  easily  usable  form  covering  considerable  variety  of 
aboriginal  life   and  activity,   and  is  a  welcome  addition   to   the   eye- 
data  of  distant  Indian  tribes.     Among  the  most  interesting  pictures  are 
a  Sanapani  Indian  with  tame  parrots,  No.  i ;  a  Mbayi  with  bow  and 
arrow.  No.   13 ;    Indian  holding  a  snake,    Nos.    42-43 ;   Indian  with 
labret.  No.  50  ;  Indian  woman  carrying  infant  in  net,  Nos.  87  and  89  ;  a 
group  of  children,  Nos.   3Sa  and  35B.     There  are  a  number  of  fine 
pictures  of  old  men.     Tattooing  is  well  represented  in  Nos.  16-19,  *'" 
24,  77-81,  85,  86,  93,  94;  and  those  who  argue  for  a  connection  between 
these  South  American  Indians  and  the  Polynesians  may  find  some  conso- 
lation in  the  resemblances  suggested  by  the  tattooed  aborigines  of  the 
Chaco  in  comparison  with  Maori  chiefs,  etc.     Dr  Lehmann-Nitsche  has 
both  performed  a  pious  deed  and  benefited  anthropology  by  editing  this 
collection.  Alexander  F.  Chamberlain. 

Zeitschrift  fur  Demographie  und  Statistik  der  Juden.     Berlin.     4®. 

Under  this  title  a  new  monthly,  devoted  to  the  anthropology  and 
statistics  of  the  Jews,  made  its  appearance  at  the  commencement  of  the 
present  year.  It  is  edited  by  Dr  Arthur  Ruppin,  under  the  auspices  of 
the  Bureau  for  Statistics  of  the  Jews  in  Berlin.  Within  the  compass  of 
sixteen  small  quarto  pages,  of  which  each  number  is  composed,  a  large 
amount  of  readable  matter  and  interesting  information  is  compressed, 
and,  although  it  has  to  do  with  the  anthropological,  sociological,  and 
economic  features  of  a  special  people,  the  tone  and  tenor  of  the  journal 
are  entirely  objective,  sine  ira  et  studio^  neither  polemical  nor  apologetic. 

The  table  of  contents  of  the  first  two  numbers  will  convey  an  idea  of 
the  richness  and  variety  of  the  subject-matter.  Thus,  the  January  num- 
ber contains  (i)  under  the  heading  *  *  Abhandlungen  * '  :  Contribution 
to  the  Physical  Anthropology  of  the  Jews,  by  Prof.  F.  v.  I^uschan ;  Mar- 
riages between  Jews  and  Christians  in  Copenhagen  during  1 880-1 903, 
by  Julius  Salomon  ;  Criminality  among  Christians  and  Jews  in  Germany 
during  1899-1902,  by  Dr  A.  Ruppin.  (2)  Under  the  heading  **Sta- 
tistisches  Archiv** :  Changes  in  the  Local  Distribution  of  the  Jews  in 
Germany  since  187 1  ;  The  Jewish  Population  of  WUrttenberg ;  Mixed 
Marriages  in  Hamburg ;  Education  in  Prussia  j  The  Number  of  Foreigners 
in  the  Kingdom  of  Saxony ;  Statistics  of  Vocations  in  Austria  on  the 


CHAMBERLAIN]  PERIODICAL  LITERATURE  327 

Basis  of  the  Census  of  1900 ;  Mixed  Marriages  in  Buda-Pesth ;  The  Jews 
in  Italy  according  to  the  Census  of  1901 ;  Immigration  into  the  United 
States ;  The  Jews  in  British  India.  In  the  February  issue  appear :  ( i ) 
The  Conception  of  the  Jews  of  their  being  a  Chosen  People  and  its  Bio- 
logical Significance,  by  Curt  Michaelis ;  The  Pan-Jewish  Labor  Union 
in  Russia,  Poland,  and  Lithuania,  by  Esther  Schneerson ;  (2;  Age  Sta- 
tistics of  Christians  and  Jews  in  Hamburg ;  Criminality  among  the  Jews 
in  the  Netherlands;  Cities  in  Germany  with  more  than  1,000  Jewish 
Inhabitants;  Results  of  the  Census  of  1900  in  Serbia;  The  Jews  of  the 
Oasis  Mzab  ;  The  Vernacular  of  the  Jews  in  Austria  ;  Census  of  1901  in 
New  South  Wales ;  The  Jewish  Colonies  in  India. 

L  M.  Casanowicz. 

Romanische  MeisfererzdhUr^  unter  Mitwirkung  .  .  .  Herausgegeben  von 
Dr  Friedrich  S.  Krauss.  I  Band.  Die  Hundert  alien  Erzdh- 
lungen,  Deutsch  von  Jakob  Ulrich.  Leipzig:  Deutsche  Ver- 
lagsactiengesellschaft,  1905.     8^,  i~l,  1-141  pp. 

This  volume  by  Professor  Ulrich,  of  Ziirich,  is  the  first  of  a  proposed 
series  of  "Romanic  Master  Raconteurs,"  put  into  German  under  the 
editorial  supervision  of  Dr  Krauss  of  Vienna,  aided  by  some  twenty 
collaborators  from  among  the  leading  literary  critics  of  the  principal 
German  university  towns.  It  is  dedicated  to  Ancona,  of  "  Cento 
Novelle  Antiche,"  from  which  it  takes  its  name.  The  series,  to  consist 
of  a  number  of  small  volumes  to  appear  at  the  rate  of  six  or  eight  per 
year,  is  intended  to  embody  all  that  has  endured  as  worth  preserving  of 
the  countless  short  tales,  midway  between  folklore  and  epic,  that  passed 
current  among  the  Romanic  nations,  particularly  France  and  Italy,  in 
the  Medieval  period  down  to  about  the  close  of  the  Xlllth  century. 
Many  of  these  were  of  Hindu,  Arab,  or  other  Oriental  origin,  brought 
back  by  returning  Crusaders  and  adapted  to  European  ideas  by  knights 
and  minnesingers.  They  are  of  all  sorts,  from  Bible  parables  and 
miracle  stories  to  the  originals  on  which  our  best-known  humorists  have 
built  their  reputations.  In  construction  they  are  all  built  on  the  same 
model  —  short,  simple,  and  direct,  as  was  necessary  to  appeal  to  illiterate 
auditors,  who  wished  to  be  amused  or  lightly  instructed,  without  too  long 
a  strain  on  their  intellects.  They  are  the  prose  counterpart  of  the 
ancient  ballad,  and  the  delight  which  the  work  affords  to  one  brought  up 
in  the  European  tradition  is  akin  to  that  with  which  in  mature  age  we  turn 
over  the  pages  of  the  old  fourth  reader  of  our  childhood.  Each  volume 
contains  a  critical  introduction  by  the  translator,  with  an  appendix  of 
literary  and  historical  notes  for  each  story.  James  Moonev. 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 
Conducted  by  Dr  Alexander  F.  Chamberlain 

[Note. — Authors,  especially  those  whose  articles  appear  id  jonnials  uid  other 
serials  oot  eotirel]'  devoted  to  anthropology,  will  greatly  aid  this  departiDeDt  of  the 
American  AnlArofiilogist  by  seadiog  direct  to  Dr  A.  F.  Chamberlain,  Clark  University, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts,  U.  S.  A.,  reprints  or  copies  of  such  studies  as  they  may  desire 
to  hare  noticed  in  these  pages.  —  Editor.] 


GENERAL 

Andri  LBfiTre.  (R.  de  1'  £c.  d'Anthr. 
de  Paris,  1904,  XIV,  383-96,  portrait. ) 
Memorial  addresses  by  MM.  D'Echerac, 
Thuli*.  Deniker,  Delbet,  Hen-*,  on  the 
life,  character,  aod  woiks  of  the  dis- 
tinguished Freoch  anthropologist.  His 
chief  publicHtioQs  were  on  Religion  and 
mythologies,  Man  through  the  ages, 
Myths  and  religioni,  Races  and  lan- 
guages, Slavs  and  Teutons,  Ancient  Italy, 
etc.  By  his  will  he  left  to  the  ^le 
d'Anthropoloeie  "  my  head  —  face,  cra- 
nium and  brain, —  and  more,  if  useful." 

Balfmu  (H, )  The  relationship  of  mu- 
scums  to  the  study  of  anthropology.  (J. 
Anth.  Inst.,Lond.,  1904,  xxxiv,  10-10.) 
Argues  for  individuatiialion,  varitty,  and 


tBoflrah 


1  type    I 


have  larger  beads  and  are  darker- haired 
ihna  the  reformatory  and  industrial 
school  boys.  London -bom  boys  are 
oftener  darker-eyed,  darker- haired,  and 
dolichocephalic. 
Bloat  (A.)  Questions  de  technique  c^pfa- 
alomitrique  d'apris  M.  Bertillon.  (An- 
nte  Psychol.,  Paris,  1903  [1904],  x, 
139-40- )  From  measurement  oi  104 
subjects  it  was  found  that  in  38  there 
was  no  diifereoce  in  length  of  head 
when  measured  from  the  glabella  and 
from  tfae  root  of  the  nose  ;  io  29  the 
first  diameter  was  less,  in  37  greater. 
The  individual  differences  are  greater 
with  the  greater  excess  of  the  gUbcllar 


fast  disappearing.  Great  Britain  needs 
a  National  Museum  and  "  Folk- Mu- 
seum," and  special  muEcums  lo  illustrate 
special  subjects  (environment,  etc.) 

Baschi  (A.)  Intomo  ai  presunti  ritratti 
di  Andrea  de  Sarin.  (A.  p.  I'Antrop., 
Firenie,  1904,  XXXlv,  301-13,  pi.). 
Discusses  from  an  anatomical  point  of 
view  the  six  portraits  of  Andrea  del 
Sarto,  alleged  10  be  in  existence.  From 
his  physiognomic  analysis  Dr  B.  con- 
cludes that  the  portraits  in  question  rep-  I 
resent  at  least  three  different  individuals  ;  . 
which  is  Andrea  is  still  doubtful.  | 

Beddoa  (J.)  The  somatology  of  eight  I 
hundred  boys  in  training  for  the  Royal  . 
Navy.  (J.  Anthr.  Inst.,  Lond.,  1904,  | 
xxxiv,  92-99. )  Details  of  color  obser-  j 
vatioDS  of  Soo  boys  1 6-1 7  years  of  age, 
and  head -measurements  of  300  compared  < 
with  E6  reformatory  school  and  123  , 
other  boys  of  like  ages.     The  navy  boys   [ 


Bl£al(M.)  Andr«Ulirre.  (Rdel'^c 
d'  Anthr.  de  Paris,  1905,  xv,  i-3.) 
Brief  appreciation  of  life  and  works. 
Among  other  literary  efforts,  Leftvre, 
the  anthropologist,  published  two  vol- 
umes of  poems  pantheistic  in  sentiment 
and  classic  in  style  and  form.  He  was 
also  the  author  of  a  translation  of  Ln- 

DBlTame(J.)  La  vie  sociale.  (R.  Philos., 
Paris,  1904,  Lviii,  583-601.)  The  au- 
thor does  not  accept  the  theory  that  social 
phenomena  are  a  mere  prelongaHon  of 
biological  phenomena.  Many  compar- 
isons of  this  order  are  superficial  and  ex- 
terior. Human  changes  are  due  to  in- 
dividual minds,  but  science  alone  cannot 
create  civiliialion.  Moral  ideas,  indi- 
vidual eneigies  escaping  scientific  for- 
mula are  also  necessary. 

Duff  (R.  A.)  Proverbial  morality.  (Int 
J.  Ethics,  Phila.,  1904,  xiv,  172-9.) 
From  a  consideration  of  proverbs  or 
maxims  concerning  human  conduct,  etc, 
D.  concludes  tbat  ■'  if  the  ideal  of  con- 


CHilMBERLAIN] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


329 


duct  which  most  popular  maxims  present 
is  not  of  very  high  type,  it  is  at  least  a 
many-sided  and  self-corrective  one." 
For  most  of  the  popular  maxims  another 
one  of  opposite  import  exists.  The  an- 
tagonbms,  uncertainties,  and  contradic- 
tions of  life  are  well  expressed. 

Oiuffrida-Russeri  (V.)  Le  ossificazioni 
di  spazi  suturali  e  i  parietali  divisi. 
(Mon.  Zool.  Ital.,  Firenze,  1904,  xv, 
172-8,  4  fgs. )  Treats  of  ossifications  of 
sutural  spaces  in  relation  to  divided 
parietals.  G.  holds  that  inter-central 
membranous  spaces  can  independently 
ossify.  Divided  parietals  may  be  real 
and  pseudo,  one  part  of  the  so-called 
**  divided  parietal ''  being  really  an  inde- 
pendent ossification  in  the  sutural  space. 

— —  II  canale  infrasquamoso  di  Gruber  e 
altre  particolarit^  roorfologiche  nella 
regione  temporale,  canale  interstiziale 
e  processo  ensiforme.  (Ibid.,  298- 
303*  I  fg«)  Describes  the  occurrence 
of  Gruber's  canal  in  two  European 
(Roman  Apulian)  male  skulls  out  of 
1,300  examined.  It  did  not  occur  once 
in  400  Papuan  skulls,  and  the  only 
other  example  was  in  an  infantile  Peru- 
vian skull.  The  occurrence  of  the  ensi- 
form  process  is  noted  in  four  Peruvian 
skulls.  In  the  Italian  skulls  when  it  oc- 
curs (ra.  I  :  350)  it  is  not  so  typical. 

Gli    pweudo-parietali    tripartiti   del 

Frasseto.  (Ibid.,  1905,  xvi,  64-70.) 
Critique  of  article  by  Frassetto  in  same 
periodical  for  Dec.,  1904.  G.  considers 
that  the  cases  of  2^ja  and  Fusari,  Ranke, 
and  the  Egyptian  skull  of  the  Paris  Mu- 
seum cited  by  F.,  can  be  interpreted 
otherwise  than  as  divided  parietals,  and 
attributes  to  him  '*an  extraordinary  facil- 
ity for  seeing  divided  parietals."  The 
theory  of  the  ossification  of  the  periparie- 
tal  sutural  spaces  is  advocated  by  G. 

L'indice     tibio-femorale  e  I'indice 

radio-omerale  (A.  di  Anat.  edi  Embr., 
Firenze,  1904,  ill,  546-65.)  The  con- 
clusions of  this  interesting  paper  are  that, 
contrary  to  the  opinion  of  Tarufli,  macro- 
somia  (gianthood)  does  not  alter  the  re- 
spective proportions  of  femur  and  tibia  ; 
nor  does  microsomia  (pygmism)  alter 
them  according  to  any  fixed  law. 
The  radio-humeral  index  is  higher  in 
male,  and  not  in  females  (as  Calori 
maintained ) ;  the  greater  development 
of  the  humerus  in  giants,  relatively  to 
the  radius,  is  not  proved.  Taruffi's 
*<  law  ",  that  low  stature  is  accompanied 


by  an  augmentation  of  radial  length,  is 
disproved.  The  great  majority  of  the 
lower  races  have  high  anti-brachial  in- 
dices, independent  of  stature. 

——  Un  cranio  acrocefalico.  (A.d.  Soc. 
Rom.  di  Antrop.,  1905,  xi,  extr.,  pp. 
1-17,  2  fgs.)  Describes  with  measure- 
ments an  acrocephalic  skull  belonging  to 
an  individual  ca,  8  years  of  age,  and  dis- 
cusses the  general  subject  (views  of  Top> 
inard  and  Hanotte, —  for  the  latter  aero- 
cephaly  and  oxycephaly  are  synony- 
mous). The  precocious  closure  of  a 
great  part  of  the  coronal  and  of  the  an- 
terior part  of  the  sagittal  suture  is  the 
cause  of  the  excessive  reaction  causing 
the  peculiar  form  of  the  skull,  its  prog- 
nathism, etc.  The  capacity  *is  1,330 
ccm.,  the  cephalic  index  96.7.  The  par- 
ietal bosses  are  asymmetrical. 

Partecipazione  della  donna  al  pro- 

gresso.  (Riv.  Pop.,  Napoli,  1904,  estr., 
10  pp. )  Discusses  rdle  of  women  in 
human  progress  in  ancient  and  modem 
times.  In  the  Homeric  age  and  corre- 
sponding epochs  elsewhere  woman  repre- 
sented a  progressive  element ;  man  was 
priest  and  warrior  and  conservative. 
Woman's  conservatism  to-day  is  retro- 
gression ;  she  has  been  mechanized  by 
religion,  etc.,  and  civilization  has  lost 
infinitely  much.  Woman  must  be 
allowed  again  to  infuse  into  human  cul- 
ture her  grace  and  gentleness,  by  acquir- 
ing a  clearer  intellect  and  a  deeper  sin> 
cerity.  Woman  ceases  to  study  before 
she  is  twenty  ;  what  would  man  do  if  he 
were  in  like  status?  Matrimony  and 
child-birth  are,  after  all,  episodes,  not 
all  of  life. 

de  la  Grasserie  (R. )  De  1' expression  de 
I'id^e  de  la  sexuality  dans  le  langage. 
(R.  Philos.,  Paris,  1904,  LVIII,  225- 
46. )  Author  holds  that  sexual  gender  is 
the  slowest  and  latest  of  several  strata  to 
appear.  Gender  appeared  long  before 
sexuality  was  recognized  in  thb  category  ; 
biotic  and  logistic  preceded  sexual 
gender. 

Greenwood  (M.)  A  first  study  of  the 
weight,  variability,  and  correlation  of  the 
human  viscera,  with  special  reference  to 
the  healthy  and  diseased  heart.  (Bio- 
metrika,  Cambr.,  1904,  ill,  63-83.) 
Gives  statistics  of  weight,  variability, 
correlation,  etc.,  of  heart,  liver,  spleen, 
and  kidneys,  based  on  1,382  cases  from 
general  hospital  population  and  from  358 
to  413  cases  of  healthy  hearts.     Sp>ecial 


330 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


diseases  and  general  want  of  health  both 
tend  to  increase  variability  and  reduce 
correlation.  Heart-kidney  correlation  is 
highest.  In  health  heart-weight  in- 
creases with  age,  but  the  healthy  hear- 
is  much  smaller  than  the  heart  in  diseaset 
The  weight  of  the  average  healthy  hear, 
has  been  underestimated. 

de  Helguero  ( F. )  Determinazione  della 
grandezza  e  della  forma  degli  organismi 
in  somatometria.  (A.  d.  Soc.  Rom.  di 
Antrop.,  1905,  XI,  17-26.)  Emphasizes 
importance  and  distinction  of  size  (mass) 
and  form  of  organisms.  Stature  seems 
to  be  the  best  index  of  size,  all  organ- 
isms being  reduced  to  a  common  stature 
of  1000  units,  and  the  somatic  coefficient 
being  determined.  The  value  of  the 
relation  between  brain-weight  and  body- 
weight  is  somewhat  doubtful.  In  woman 
the  brain-weight  is,  relative  to  the  body- 
mass,  greater  than  in  man.  Indices  are 
not  generally  independent  of  the  abso- 
lute masses  of  organism. 

Hellmich  (H.)  Der  Gdtze'sche  Bdsch- 
ungsmesser.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904, 
XXXVI,  885-90,  3  fgs.)  Gives  results 
of  practical  experience  with  the  Gdtze 
scarp-measure.  See  American  Anthro- 
pologist, 1904,  N.  s.,  VI,  554. 

Hery6  (G.)  Le  journal  de  voyage  de 
Relian.  (R.  d.  1'  fee.  d'  Anthr.  de  Paris, 
1904,  XIV,  415-22.)  Gives  extracts  on 
maritime  superstitions  (use  of  powdered 
shark  brain  as  medicine),  the  Hottentots 
(*<  their  language  resembles  more  the 
cry  of  a  turkey  than  the  voice  of  man  "  ), 
manners  of  the  Europeans  at  Batavia  in 
Java  (they  keep  slave  mistresses,  selling 
them  when  tired),  the  Chinese  in  Java 
(a  << Chinese  question"  existed  then  as 
now),  poisoning  by  female  slaves 
abandoned  by  their  European  paramours, 
the  Chinese  of  Canton  (industries,  reli- 
gion, medicine,  etc. ),  the  orangutang 
(called  "a  wild  man'*),  etc.  from  a  Ms. 
of  the  1 8th  century  (1754)  by  a  ship's 
surgeon  named  Relian,  of  Geneva. 

ten  Kate  (H.)  Die  blauen  Geburtsflecke. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii, 
53-8. )  Discusses  the  occurrence  of 
**  blue  birth-marks  "  (Mongolian  spots) 
in  Asia,  particularly  Japan  and  China, 
Indonesia  (they  are  not  unknown  among 
the  Papuans),  America  (Mayas,  Bra- 
zilian Indians,  etc. ),  whites  of  Europe, 
etc.  Dr  ten  Kate  concludes  that  the 
evidence  in  hand  indicates  that  these 
"blue  spots"  are  an  isomorphism  (in 


the  sense  of  Lehmann-Nitsche),  and 
**  occur  with  different  intensity  and  fre- 
quency in  all  human  races."  Folk-lore 
in  Japan  attributes  them  to  coitus  during 
pregnancy;  in  parts  of  China  to  '*tbe 
slap  of  a  fairy,"  the  mark  of  the  king  of 
the  lower  world,  etc.;  in  Java  to  the 
**  lick  "  of  dwarf-like  spirits,  the  lick  of 
a  snake,  etc. 

Lamieri  ( Vittoria )  Folk-lore  et  pedagogia. 
(R.  di  Psicol.  Appl.,  Bologna,  1905,  i, 
26-31.)  Author  describes  a  game  of 
proverbs  introduced  by  her  into  the 
school  for  the  feeble-minded  at  Bologna 
and  the  good  results  therefrom. 

Lapicque  (L. )  Sur  I'emploi  d'une  toise 
horizontale  en  campagne ;  experience 
faite  dans  le  Sud  de  I'lnde.  (Bull.  Soc 
d' Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v«  s.,  v,  337- 
40. )  Describes  a  measure  for  taking  the 
length  (height)  lying,  etc.,  of  human 
subjects,  used  by  the  author  in  southern 
India.  The  principle  of  the  apparatus 
was  suggested  by  Papillault.  L.  finds 
the  difference  between  the  height  stand- 
ing and  the  length  lying  to  be  about 
2  cm. 

Lejeune  (C. )  La  communion.  (Ibid., 
404-11.)  Discusses  various  theories 
(Lefivre,  Reinach,  Maury)  concerning 
the  origin  of  communion  as  practised  by 
the  Christian  churches,  etc.  For  L.  the 
Catholic  ceremony  is  a  survival  from  the 
cannibalism  of  remote  ages  —  anthropo- 
theophagy.  The  author  looks  upon 
Catholicism  as  the  greatest  danger  of 
the  future. 

YOn  Lendenfeld  ( R. )  Bemerkungen  ttber 
die  Bedeutung  der  Riickbildung  fiir  die 
Anpassung.  (A.  f.  Rassen-  u.  Ges.- 
Biol.,  Berlin,  1904,  I,  793-7.)  Dis- 
cusses the  significance  of  regression  for 
adaptation.  Regression  of  unused  parts 
is  not  retrogression  but  progression,  for 
it  increases  the  regression  of  the  whole 
organism.  To  get  rid  of  the  superfluous 
is  an  advantage,  —  to  accomplish  the 
most,  with  the  least  expenditure.  Nega- 
tive variation  leads  to  the  regression  of 
what  is  unused,  superfluous,  unpro- 
ductive. 

MacDougall  (R.)  The  significance  of  the 
human  hand  in  the  evolution  of  mind. 
(Amer.  J.  Psych.,  Worcester,  1905, 
XVI,  232-42. )  General  discussion.  M. 
holds  that  there  is  *'an  intimate  connec- 
tion between  the  features  of  the  hand 
and  the  soul  of  man,"  that  its  individu- 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


331 


ality  is  "no  less  characteristic  than  that 
of  the  human  face/'  and  that  "in  its 
features  and  capabilities  is  symbolized  all 
that  man  has  achieved  in  his  long  up- 
ward march  from  the  primeval  ooze.'* 

Mahoadaau  (P.  G. )  Poudre  de  crftne. 
(R.  de  r6c.  d'Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904, 
XIV,  332. )  Note  on  a  recii>e  of  powder 
made  from  the  skull  of  one  who  has  died 
a  violent  death,  given  in  a  botanical  and 

?harmaceutical  dictionary   published  in 
'aris  in  17 16. 

Kann  (R. )  Facial  expression.  (Intern. 
Quart.,  N.  Y.,  1905,  xi,  148-62.) 
General  discussion.  Education  and  inher- 
itance constantly  increase  the  differences 
between  adults.  The  infantile  and  adult 
faces  among  civilized  peoples  are  farther 
apart  than  among  savages.  Aristocratic 
and  socially-selected  classes  have  greater 
social  expressiveness.  The  contrasts 
between  the  faces  of  men  and  women  are 
greater  among  civilized  than  among  sav- 
age peoples. 

Kanouyrier  (L. )  L' individuality  de  T an- 
thropologic. (R.  de  rfec.  d*  Anthr.  de 
Paris,  1904,  XIV,  397-410.)  Address 
at  St  Louis  Exposition,  September  23, 
1904.  General  discussion  of  the  indi- 
vidualization of  anthropology  as  a  dis- 
tinct science.  Anthropology  is  con- 
cerned with  anatomical,  physiological, 
psychological,  and  sociological  differ- 
ences, and  the  connection  of  these  with 
one  another  is  not  to  be  forgotten.  The 
practical  organization  of  the  science  is  of 
great  importance.  The  theoretic  recog- 
nition of  its  individuality  in  the  minds 
of  all  anthropologists  dominates  all  other 
questions. 

Mantegazza  (P. )  Primee  linee  di  psicolo- 
gia  positiva.  (A.  p.  1'  Anthr.,  Firenze, 
1904,  XXXIV,  143-82,  193-241.)  Sec- 
tions xxv-xxxii,  treating  of  inferior 
intelligences,  psychic  processes  in  hu- 
man societies,  pathology  of  thought, 
higher  forms  of  human  endowment, 
memory,  imagination  and  fancy,  speech 
and  gesture  in  races  of  man,  ethical 
character  of  human  thought  (every 
thought  of  weak  brains  is  low),  etc. 
Memory  increases  with  hierarchy  of 
races.  In  biology  and  psychology  1 00 
=  100  is  of  more  importance  than  2  =  2. 
Invita  Minerva  applies  to  muscular 
effort. 

MinakoY  (P.  A.)  O  pos£d£nii  volos. 
(Russk.  Antrop.  Zhum.,  Moskva,  1903, 


NO.  2,  1-12,  2  pi. )  Treats  of  the  grow- 
ing gray  of  the  hair.  M.  opposes  Met- 
chnikov's  pigmentophagi  theory  —  the 
pigmentophagi  are  really  pigmentophors 
of  Riehl,  Kdlliker,  etc. 

de  Mortillet  (A.)  Les  tumulus.  (R.  de 
1*  fee.  d'  Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  xiv, 
247-62,  6  fgs. )  Treats  of  names,  num- 
ber (exceeds  3000  in  France  —  infinitely 
more  have  been  destroyed  without  re- 
cord) ;  classification  (true  tumuli  or  torn- 
belles ;  pseudo-tumuli :  mottes^  buttes^ 
etc. ) ;  buttes  due  to  mineral  exploitation  ; 
murgers  or  more  or  less  modem  funeral 
cairns,  also  callied  pierriers ;  tombelles 
or  sepulchral  tumuli  of  earth  (barrows); 
neolithic  tumuli,  etc.  De  M.  holds  that, 
except  those  buried  directly  in  the 
ground,  all  dolmens  were  covered  by 
tumuli. 

MottfL.  F.)  The  Round  Table.  (Pubs. 
Moa.  Lang.  Assoc.  Amer.,  1905, 
XX,  231-64.)  Treats  chiefly  of  the 
Arthurian  "  Round  Table  "  as  a  courtly 
festival  celebrated  on  some  great  feast 
day.  Author  seeks  to  show  that  "all 
the  known  features  of  Arthur's  Round 
Table  are  found  in  primitive  agricultural 
celebrations,"  the  basis  being  Celtic 
folk-custom. 

Nioolle  (C.)  Reproduction  exp6rimentale 
de  la  Idpre  chez  le  singe.  (C.-R.  Acad, 
d.  Sci.,  Paris,  1905,  CXL,  539-42.) 
Describes  the  inoculation  of  a  female 
Macacus  sinensis  with  leprosy  from  a 
human  being.  Other  related  experi- 
ments are  in  progress  at  the  Pasteur 
Institute. 

Poarl  (R. )  A  notable  advance  in  the 
theory  of  correlation.  (Science,  N.  Y., 
*905»  N»  s.,  XXI,  32-5.)  Calls  atten- 
tion to  the  importance  of  Pearson's 
recent  memoir  On  the  theory  of  contin- 
gency and  its  relation  to  association  and 
normal  correlation  (London,  1 904,  pp. 
1-35)  in  widening  the  range  of  prob- 
lems and  material  which  can  be  effiect- 
ively  handled  by  biometric  methods. 

Pi^trement  (C.  A.)  Les  races che valines 
dans  les  temps  et  dans  I'espace.  ( Bull. 
Soc.  d' Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v«  s,  v, 
412-36.)  Discussion  and  critique  of 
Zaborowski's  recent  article  Le  cheval 
domestique  en  Europe  et  les  Protaryens 
(C.-R.  Ass.  frang.  A.  d.  Sci.,  1903, 
845-62.)  Z.  is  in  error  in  applying 
the  term  large  ( grand )  to  the  Asiatic 
race  of   Sanson   and   to  the    Assyrian 


332 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


horses  and  those  of  the  Parthenon.  Nor 
were  the  horses  bestridden  by  Cesar's 
Teutons  so  small  as  Z.  thinks.  There 
is  no  evidence  that  any  race  of  horses 
has  grown  larger  before  the  19th  cen- 
tury (at  this  epoch,  improvements  of 
the  soil  and  climate  and  domestication 
with  better  and  more  abundant  food 
have  combined  to  improve  the  breed). 
P.  thinks  that  the  [>eninsular  Arabs  of 
the  time  of  Mahomet  already  possessed 
what  might  be  called  a  breed  of 
horses. 

Pittaluga  ( Rosetta)  Su  un  caso  di  ossa 
wormiane  etmo-lacrimali  e  del  palato 
duro.  (A.  d.  Soc.  Rom.  di  Antrop., 
1905,  XI,  52-5,  2  figs.)  Treats  of  two 
small  ethmo-lacrimal  wormian  bones  and 
two  large  wormian  bones  in  the  hard 
palate  of  a  female  skull  (from  Siena) 
belonging  to  a  person  not  more  than  15 
years  of  age.  Facial  asymmetry  and 
dental  anomalies  were  also  present. 
Rachitic  influence  is  suggested. 

Preuss  (T. )  Der  Ursprung  der  Religion 
und  Kunst.  I.  Der  Zauber  in  Kdrper- 
ofihungen.     (Globus,  Bmschwg,    1904, 

Lxxxvi,  321-7,  355-63,  375-9,  388-92, 
10  figs. )  Treats  of  the  **  magic ' '  of  the 
bodily  openings  in  connection  with  the 
origin  of  religion  and  art :  Magic  song 
of  animals  (^.  ^^  grasshopper  as  bringer 
of  heat, — animals  thus  become  deities), 
magic  of  defecation  (among  Aztecs,  etc., 
excreta  and  urine  in  rites  and  cere- 
monies), magic  of  cohabitation  (Peru- 
vian and  Mexican  ceremonies  for  the 
"renewing"  of  nature,  sexual  orgies  of 
gods  and  men),  magic  of  breath  (breath- 
ing into  mouth  of  woman  as  necessary  as 
as  injectio  seminis  for  completion  of 
child),  magic  of  animal  dances  (men 
imitate  animals  and  increase  power) — 
these  are  matters  of  magic,  not  mere 
representations  of  scenes  and  ideas  ( this 
occurs  after  the  dances  have  become 
secular,  or  at  a  higher  stage  of  develop- 
ment). The  conception  of  a  magic 
power  or  orenda  in  the  whole  of  man 
was  preceded  by  the  idea  of  the 
"magic"  of  separate  portions  of  the 
body  and  of  fixed  acts.  Personal  magic 
began  with  the  belief  that  out  of  the 
openings  of  the  body  came  magic  powers 
and  magic  stuff — out  of  the  nose  breath  ; 
out  of  the  mouth  breath,  voice,  spittle, 
and  other  excreta  out  of  the  anus,  penis, 
and  genital  organs.  The  magic  of  man 
is  the  origin  of  religion  and  of  art. 


R.  (J.)  Bin  Oberkiefer  ;mit  flberzflhligen 
Zfthnen.  (Corr.-Bl.  d.  deutschen  Ges. 
f.  Anthr.,  Mttnchen,  1905,  xxxv,  57, 
I  fig.)  The  supernumerary  teeth  grew 
after  the  wisdom  teeth  in  the  twentieth 
year. 

Rhumbler  (L.)  Klaatsch's  und  Schoeten- 
sacks  Theorien  iiber  Abstanmiung  und 
Urheimat  des  Menschengeschlechts.  (A. 
f.  Rassen-  u.  Ges.-  Biol.,  Berlin,  1904, 
79S-808.)  Critical  discussion  of  Kla- 
atsch's  theory  of  the  separation  of  the 
human  stock  branch  and  the  anthropoid- 
stock  branch  at  the  period  of  ^e  mam- 
mal, or  ^t  primatoidy  pre-simian  ances- 
try of  man,  and  the  argument  of  Schoeten- 
sack  that  Australia  was  the  scene  of  the 
origin  of  mankind,  —  here  the  natural 
environment  was  especially  favorable  to 
the  development  of  such  a  being.  R. 
considers  both  hypotheses  untenable. 
The  discovery  of  fossil  human  remains, 
etc.,  in  Australia  must  occur  before 
Schoetensack's  theory  can  have  a  status. 

Salmon  (P.)  Influence  du  sexe  sur  le 
dessin.  (Bull.  Soc.  d' Anthr.  de  Paris, 
1904,  \^  s,  V,  332-7.)  Dr  S.  holds 
that  drawing  is  homosexual  and  of  the 
corresponding  sex,  —  it  is  easier  for  a 
girl  to  draw  a  woman,  for  a  boy  to  draw 
a  man.  The  personal  equation  is  large 
even  in  famous  artists.  There  are 
"natural  drawings"  and  "influenced 
drawings."  The  esthetic  sense  hardly 
appears,  even  with  education,  before  the 
thirteenth  year.  There  exists  in  man 
an  innate  tendency  to  draw.  Drawing 
is  precocious  in  the  race  and  in  the  indi- 
vidual. 

Shaler  (N.  S. )  Earth  and  man:  an 
economic  forecast.  (Intern.  Quart.,  N. 
Y.,  1905,  X,  227-39.)  According  to 
S.,  "  the  genus  homo  is  one  of  those  ex- 
ceptional groups,  of  which  there  are 
many,  which  have  a  peculiar  capacity  for 
withstanding  those  influences  which  bring 
about  the  death  of  organic  groups." 
Man's  intellectual  quality  exempts  him 
from  calamities  and  accidents  of  extinc- 
tion and  "he  is  not  to  pmss  from  the 
earth  in  all  foreseeable  time,  but  is  to 
master  it  and  himself  for  ages  of  far- 
reaching  endeavor." 

Slaughter  (J.  W.)  Music  and  religion: 
a  psychological  rivalry.  (Intern.  J. 
Ethics,  Phila.,  1905,  xv,  352-61.) 
According  to  the  author,  "  music  ana 
religion  are  rivals  for  the  same  claims  in 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


333 


hnman  nature,  and  so  long  as  music  oc- 
cupies its  present  place  in  the  general 
consciousness,  we  can  look  for  no  wide- 
spread revival  in  religion." 

Stoops  (J.  D. )  Three  stages  in  individual 
development  (Ibid.,  1904,  xiv,  81- 
90.^  Author  seeks  to  show  that  in  the 
individual,  and  correspondingly  also  in 
society,  there  exist  three  developmental 
stages  :  organization  ;  negative,  exclusive 
self^consciousness ;  reorganization  be- 
tween growing  sense  of  self  and  deeper 
life. 

Stratx  (C.  H.)  Das  Kind  als  Erzieher. 
(Vrtljhrs.  f.  Kdrp.  Erzhg.,  Wien,  1905, 
I,  17-22,  I  fg. )  We  should  not  only 
educate  children  but  we  ought  also  to 
let  them  educate  us  —  especially  in  the 
light  of  mens  sana  in  corpore  sano. 
The  child  must  not  be  deprived  of  its 
natural  and  healthy  instinct  tor  nakedness 
and  its  expression. 

Stravch  {Hf')  Ueber  eine  Methode  far- 
biger  Konservierung  frischer  Leichen- 
teile  fUr  die  Zwecke  der  somatischen 
Anthropologic.     (Z.    f.    Ethn.,   Berlin, 

1904,  XXXVI,  671-5.)  Gives  author's 
experience  with  the  Littlejohn  wet 
method  of  preserving  fresh  parts  of  the 
body,  which  he  highly  approves.  A 
woman's  head  has  been  preserved  by 
this  method  since  Nov.,  1903.  The 
realism  of  the  specimens  is  remarkable. 

Stfickelberg  (E.  A.)  Ueber  Pergament- 
bilder.     (Schwz.  A.  f.  Volksk.,  Ziirich, 

1905,  VIII,  1-15,  4  pi.,  5  fg.)  Treats 
of  the  so-called  **  parchment  pictures," 
of  which  the  author  has  seen  some 
10,000  (at  the  Second  International 
Congress  of  the  History  of  Religions  at 
B&le),  or  memorial  pictures  for  pilgrims 
and  devotees,  of  saints,  etc.  The  pic- 
tures themselves,  their  origin,  use,  etc., 
are  discussed,  also  the  inscriptions  on 
them.  Their  flourishing  period  was  the 
time  of  the  barok  and  rococo  style  and 
they  were  made  in  monasteries,  etc.,  as 
e.  g.,  at  Einsiedeln.  These  A^/tj^/i  are 
still  sometimes  presented  to  children  or 
put  into  coffins,  or  hung  on  chamber 
walls. 

Symington  (J.)  John  Grattan's  crani- 
ometer  and  craniometric  methods.  (J. 
Anat.  and  Phys.,  Lond.,  1904,  xxxviii, 
259-74,  2  pi.)  Describes,  from  G.'s 
article  in  the  67f/^r  Journal  of  Arche- 
ology for  1853,  an  apparatus  for  tracing 
on  paper  the  curves  of  skulls,  the 
methods  used,  etc. 


Tenchini  (L.)  Di  un  canale  perforante 
arterioso  ( infra-parietate)  nella  volta 
cranica  dell'  uomoadulto.  (Mon.  Zool. 
Ital.,  Firenze,  1904,  xv,  loi-io,  i  fg. ) 
This  phenomenon  of  arrest  occurred 
three  times  in  430  skulls  of  criminals 
and  in  120  normal  skulls  investigated  by 
the  author. 

Terman  (L.  M. )  A  study  in  precocity 
and  prematuration.  ( Amer.  J.  of  Psych. , 
Worcester,  1905,  xvi,  145-83. )  Treats 
of  infancy,  education  and  prematuration, 
over -pressure,  criminal  and  religious 
and  sexual  precocity,  precocity  and  un- 
balance, nervousness,  etc.  There  are 
race-precocity,  individual  precocity,  and 
'*  prematuration  "  (the  result  of  outside 
influences). 

ToYO  (C. )  Le  forme  del  cranio  nello  svi- 
luppo  fetale.  (A.  d.  Soc.  Rom.  di 
Antrop.,  1905,  XI,  27-44.)  Gives 
results  of  examination  by  Sergi's  method 
of  86  Piedmontese  fetal  skulls  (second 
month  3,  third  4,  fourth  5,  fifth  ii, 
sixth  9,  seventh  7,  eighth  5,  ninth  1 1, 
term  31).  Of  these  skulls  37  were 
pentagonoid,  22  ellipsoid,  20  ovoid. 
Before  the  seventh  month  96.9  %  are 
ellipsoid-ovoid,  after  that  period  74.5  % 
pentagonoid.  Normally,  therefore,  the 
fetal  skull  assumes  from  the  seventh 
month  of  intra-uterine  life  a  pentagonal 
form  ;  before  this  comes  a  distinct  period 
with  an  ellipsoid -ovoid  form.  The  pen- 
tagonal form  in  adult  skull  is  probably  a 
fetal  residuum.  Cephalic  indices  are 
given. 

VolkOY  (Th.)  Variations  squelettiques 
du  pied  chez  les  primates  et  dans  les 
races  humaines.  (Bull.  Soc.  d'  Anthr. 
de  Paris,  1903,  \'«  s.,  iv,  632-708  ; 
1904,  v,  1-50,  201-331,  57  fgs.,  172 
tables.)  Detailed  and  valuable  mono- 
graph based  on  the  study  of  some  200 
human  subjects  (43  Amerinds),  57  an- 
thropoids, monkeys,  etc.,  and  24  other 
animals.  The  European  foot  is  the 
result  of  the  very  slow  and  gradual 
transformation  of  the  foot  of  a  climbing 
ancestor,  the  transitory  forms  of  which 
still  occur  in  the  flat  foot  of  the  fetus 
and  of  modem  savages.  The  arch  of 
the  foot  is  the  most  essential  anthropo- 
logical character,  and  the  index  of  curve, 
or  relation  between  the  height  and  the 
length  of  the  foot,  is  an  important  datum. 
Very  important  also  are  the  foot  of  the 
new-bom  and  the  so-called  supemumer- 
ary  bones.     In  the  Hylobates  and   the 


334 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


gorilla  in  part  occur  the  beginnings  of 
adaptation  to  the  upright  position  and 
bipedal  progression. 

Vram  (U.  G. )  L'indice  alveolare  inferiore. 
(A.  d.  Soc.  Rom.  di  Antr.,  1905,  xi, 
49-51.)  Gives  the  results  of  measure- 
ments of  the  prognathism  of  the  jaw  in 
34  Bolognese  (males  17),  13  Fuegians 
(males  8l,  and  6  Milanese  skulls,  accord- 
ing to  the  relation  of  the  intergonial- 
alveolar  line  to  the  intergonial  pogonon 
(TOrOk).  An  index  below  103  indicates 
a  prognathic  chin,  above  103  a  prog- 
nathic alveolus  and  a  retreating  chin. 
Here  the  relation  of  two  linear  measure- 
ments is  substituted  for  the  measuration 
of  an  angle. 

Un  quarto  molare  in  un  cranio  di  un 


Cercocebus.  (Ibid.,  47-48,  i  fg. ) 
Brief  description  of  a  fourth  molar  in 
the  skull  of  a  macaque  from  Sumatra, 
— very  small,  as  was  the  fourth  molar  in 
a  human  skull  recorded  by  V. 

Waldeyer  (H.)  Os  tibiale  externum 
Pfitzner.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904, 
XXXVI,  881-2.)  Brief  note  on  four 
cases  of  this  variation,  one  on  both 
sides. 

WMtelaw  (C.  E.)  The  origin  and  de- 
velopment of  the  H  ighland  di  rk.  ( Trans. 
Glasgow  Archeol.  Soc.,  1905,  N.  s.,  v, 
32-42,  3  pi.).  Author  distinguishes 
four  types,  developed  from  the  form  of 
**  the  simple  dagger  knife  in  use  over 
western  Europe  from  the  14th  to  the 
1 6th  centuries  inclusive."  As  a  distinc- 
tive weapon  the  Highland  dirk  does  not 
seem  to  exist  earlier  than  the  17th  cen- 
tury, although  at  that  time  the  **  univer- 
sal type  "  of  dagger  knife  was  then  in 
use.  W.  believes  that  **  the  existence 
of  Celtic  ornament  on  weapons  of  the 
17th  and  i8th  centuries  was  a  revival 
rather  than  a  survival." 

Wilder  (H.  H.)  Duplicate  twins  and 
double  monsters.  (Amer.  J.  Anat.,  N. 
Y.,  1904,  III,  387-472,  II  fgs.,  2  pi.) 
Treats  of  multiple  births  and  their  rela- 
tionship to  composite  monsters,  intra- 
uterine relationships  in  twin  gestations, 
triplets  and  other  multiple  births,  dupli- 
cates among  lower  animals,  relation  of 
duplicate  twins  to  double  monsters,  clas- 
sified list  of  double  monsters  (diploplagi, 
autosite  and  parasite),  origin  of  compo- 
site monsters  (recent  theories,  etc.), 
configuration  of  the  friction-skin  ( palms 
and  soles)  in  twins  and  triplets,  physical 
measurements  of  duplicate  twins  (four 


sets).  Good  bibliography  (pp.  465- 
472).  Among  the  conclusions  reached 
in  this  valuable  monograph  are  these : 
Twins  are  either  duplicate  (invariably 
of  same  sex —  <<the  result  of  the  total 
separation  of  the  first  two  blastomeres 
of  a  single  egg)  or  fraternal  (of  same  or 
different  sex — <<  resulting  firom  the  si- 
multaneous ripening  and  consequent  fer- 
tilization of  two  separate  eggs  " ).  Da- 
plicate  twins  usually  ''resemble  each 
other  to  the  point  of  confusion"  ;  fra- 
ternal twins  may  or  may  not  resemble 
each  other.  Symmetrical  double  mon- 
sters (diploplagi)  are  closely  related  to 
duplicate  twins ;  unequal  double  mon- 
sters (autosite  and  parasite)  are  due  to 
"the  secondary  fusion  of  two  embr3ros." 
Twins  show  greater  differences  fipom 
each  other  in  the  soft  than  in  the  skeletal 
parts. 

EUROPE 

Abercrombie  (J.)  A  method  of  arrang- 
ing British  bronze-age  ceramics  in  chron- 
ological order.  (Trans.  Glasgow  Arch- 
eol. Soc.,  1905,  N.  s.,  V,  54-60.)  Author 
argues  that  *'the  beaker  is  the  oldest 
bronze-age  type  in  Britain,  and  came 
from  the  continent."  Paper  appeared 
in  full  in  J.  Anthr,  Inst.^  London, 
1903,  XXXII,  373-97.  See  American 
Anthropologist^  *903>  N.  s.,  V,  560. 

Adler  (B.)  Die  deutsche  Kolonie  Rie- 
bensdorf  im  Gouvemement  Woronesh. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  21- 
27»  37-44>  15  fgs-.  plan.)  Interesting 
account  of  the  German  colony  of  Rie- 
bensdorf  in  the  Government  of  Voronej 
(founded  in  the  latter  part  of  the  1 8th 
century  by  immigrants  from  Sulzfeld, 
near  Heilbronn)  and  its  people.  The 
language  is  Swabian  with  a  few  Little 
Russian  loan-words.  The  colony  orig- 
inally numbered  209  souls  ;  the  popula- 
tion in  1902  was  1,192,  practically  sta- 
tionary since  1881.  The  people  have 
retained  their  Protestantism,  thrift,  and 
industry.  Agriculture  and  cattle-breed- 
ing are  the  bases  of  material  culture. 
Government  interference  (law  of  1871) 
gave  the  colony  a  blow  from  which  it 
never  recovered. 

Ammon  (O.)  Die  Bewohner  der  Halli- 
gen.  (A.  f.  Rassen-  u.  Ges.-Biol.,  Ber- 
lin, 1904,  I,  84-98.)  Critical  r^sum^ 
and  discussion  of  Waldenburg's  recent 
work  Das  isocephaU  blonde  RassentU- 
mtnt  unter  Hallif^riesen  und  jUdiscken 
Taubstummen  (Berlin,    1 902,  pp.  46). 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


335 


W.  attributed  the  frequent  occurrence  of 
isocephaly  to  hereditary  taint  in  both 
cases.  A.  explains  the  condition  of  af- 
fairs in  the  Frisian  islands  by  references 
to  his  theory  of  the  emigration  of  the 
dolichocephals. 

Anderson  ( L-  F. )  The  Anglo-Saxon  scop. 
(Univ.  of  Toronto  Stud.,  Philol.  Ser., 
^903»  If  ^-45* )  Author  concludes  that 
*' professional  singers  existed  among  the 
Anglo-Saxons  as  well  as  among  the  other 
Germanic  races  of  the  6th,  7th  and  9th 
centuries.**  The  scop  was  warrior,  poet, 
sage,  teacher,  historian. 

Bardon  (L.)  et  Bovyssonie  (J.  et  A.) 
Monographic  de  la  grotte  de  Noailles, 
Corr^ze.  (R.  de  I'fec.  d'Anthr.  de 
Paris,  1904,  XIV,  283-94,  8  fgs. )  De- 
scribes the  **Cher  Serre  "  grotto  near 
Noailles,  condition  and  contents, — arch- 
eological  strata,  flints,  piercers  and  bor- 
ers, nuclei  and  flakers,  etc.  The  "new 
type**  of  borer  was  common  here.  The 
fauna  and  implements  of  the  cave  attach 
it  to  the  Solutrean-Magdalenian  epoch. 
There  are  analogies  with  Brassempouy 
and  Sordes  especially.  One  carving  was 
found.  The  number  of  non-retouched 
flints  was  great. ! 

Bartels  (P.)  Ueber  Schftdel der  Steinzeit 
und  der  friihen  Bronzezeit  aus  der  Um- 
gegend  von  Wurms  a.  Rhein.  (Z.  f. 
Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904,  xxxvi,  891-7, 
2  flgs. )  Gives  account  of  examination 
of  some  50  skulls  in  the  Paulusmuseum, 
from  the  stone  age  and  the  early  bronze 
age  in  the  neighborhood  of  Wurms. 
Two  bronze-age  types  and  two  stone-age 
types  are  distinguished. 

Baudouin  (M.)  Presentations  des  docu- 
ments relatifs  aux  coutumes  des  Ma- 
ralchens  du  pays  de  Mont,  Vendue. 
(Bull.  Soc.  d'Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v« 
s.»  V,  390.)  Notes  on  two  series  of 
photographs  representing  various  phases 
of  "maraichinage,'*  a  **maralchin** 
wedding,  "raaralchin**  dances,  etc. 
See  American  Anthropologist ^  1905,  N. 
S.,  VII,  140. 

Borobro  y  Dias  (P.)  Les  colonies  sco- 
laires  ou  colonies  de  vacances  &  Saragosse, 
Espagne.  (Int.  Arch.  f.  Schulhyg., 
Leipzig,  1905,  I,  101-4. )  Gives  anthro- 
pometric data,  weight,  height,  chest- 
girth,  strength  of  hand,  etc.,  of  20  boys 
belonging  to  a  "vacation  colony**  from 
Saragossa,  aged  7-13  years. 


Brecht  (Z>r)  Ueber  die  Eolithen  von 
Biere.  ( Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904,  xxxvi, 
750-2.^  Brief  notes  in  addition  to  Dr 
Hahne  s  account  of  the  discovery  of 
"eoliths**  at  Biere,  Saxony.  The 
original  flnder  seems  to  have  been 
August  Rebe,  a  teacher. 

Bruce  (J.)  Report  and  investigations  upon 
the  Langbank  pile-dwelling.  (Trans. 
Glasgow  Archeol.  Soc.,  1905,  N.  s.,  v, 
43-8,  4  pi. )  Treats  briefly  position  and 
construction,  objects  of  shale  (one  show- 
ing human  face),  shell,  stone,  bone  (a 
highly  ornamented  comb)  and  horn, 
bronze  fibula,  etc. 

Bryce  (T.  H. )  Report  on  animal  bones 
from  Langbank  pile  dwelling.  (Ibid., 
49-51,  2  pi.)  Bones  of  oxen  (chiefly), 
deer,  pig,  goat,  sheep  were  found.  The 
remains  correspond  with  those  found  at 
other  Scotch  pile  dwellings.  The  ox  is 
the  Bos  albifrons  or  Celtic  short-horn, 
the  pre- Roman  domestic  spedes.  One 
sheep  presents  characters  not  found  in 
any  existing  variety. 

On  certain  points  in  Scottish  ethnol- 
ogy. (Scott.  Hist.  Rev.,  Glasgow, 
1905,  II,  275-86  II  figs.)  Treats  of 
chambered  cairns,  their  contents  and 
human  remains  Author  holds  that 
when  the  east  of  Scotland  was  occupied 
by  an  Eur- Asian  (Ripley*s  "Alpine**) 
people,  the  west  was  inhabited  by  an 
Iberian  tribe  whose  customs  and  culture 
have  certain  characteristic  features.  The 
Eur-Asians  brought  with  them  the 
beaker^  —  i\ie/ood  vessel  was  apparently 
native.  There  took  place  "  a  degenera- 
tion in  situ  of  the  Iberian  before  the 
Eur- Asian  t3rpe  of  custom  and  culture.** 

Brydall  ( R. )  Notes  of  incised  and  sculp- 
tured stones  at  ( i )  Luss  ;  ( 2 )  Inch 
Cailleach,  Loch  Lomond  ;  and  ^3)  at 
Glendaruel  in  Argyleshire.  (Trans. 
Glasgow  Archeol.  Soc.,  1905,  N.  s.,  v, 
23-31,  7  pi. )  Describes  the  stone  effigy 
of  St  Kessog(?)  at  Luss  found  in  a 
cairn,  and  a  "hog-backed**  stone  and 
other  relics  from  the  churchyard  ;  cross- 
stones  from  Inch  Cailleach  ;  and  several 
carved  stones  from  the  churchyard  of 
Kilmodan,  district  of  Glendaruel. 

Inscribed    mottoes,    etc.,    on    arms 

and  armor.  (Ibid.,  1-22.)  Gives 
numerous  inscriptions  from  Scandinavian, 
Old  English,  French,  Scotch,  German, 
Spanish,  and  Oriental  weapons,  armor, 
powder-flasks,   etc.      Such   inscriptions 


336 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7i  1905 


consist  of  magic  themes,  weapon-names, 
sacred  words,  monograms  and  devices, 
patriotic  sentiments,  historical  references, 
political  mottos  and  legends,  famous 
names,  marks,  names  and  monograms  of 
makers  and  places  of  manufacture.  The 
inscribing  of  swords  and  knives  (Corsica, 
Sicily)  is  not  yet  extinct. 

Capitan  (A.)  L'homme  et  lemammouth 
k  r^poquequatemaire  sur  I'emplacement 
de  la  rue  de  Rennes.  (C.-R.  Acad.  d. 
Sci.,  Paris,  1905,  CXL,  168-9.)  From 
examination  of  the  region  in  question  the 
conclusion  is  reached  that  "  at  the  period 
of  the  deposition  of  the  lower  Quaternary 
gravels,  man,  elephant,  rhinoceros  lived 
in  the  valley  of  the  Seine,  on  the  very 
site  of  the  modem  dty  of  Paris." 

Capitan  (A. ),  Breuil  (PAbbi),  ^/ Ampou- 
lange  (M. )  Une  nouvelle  grotte  pr6- 
historique  k  parois  gravies.  (R.  de  1' 
fee.  d'  Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  xiv,  320-5, 
4  fgs. )  Describes  grotto  of  Gr^ze  in 
Dordogne  discovered  in  1904  (the 
eleventh  so  far  known),  its  contents, 
engravings,  etc.  The  Gr^ze  grotto  seems 
to  put  an  end  to  questions  as  to  the  au- 
thenticity of  these  mural  pictures,  since 
the  sand  and  clay  accumulation  had  long 
covered  them  up  and  indeed  preserved 
the  few  now  existing  —  the  cave  was 
once  full  of  such  mural  engravings  of 
bisons,  horses,  deer,  etc.  Their  rudeness 
also  indicates  their  antiquity.  The  bison 
figure,  though  profile,  has  both  horns 
represented.  Flints  and  bones  were  also 
found. 

Capitan  (A.),  Breuil  f/'-4/^<5<»),^/Peyrony 
( M. )  Une  nouvelle  grotte  ^  parois 
grav6es,  LaCal6vie,  Dordogne.  (Ibid., 
379-81,  2  fgs.)  Brief  account  of  the 
grotto  with  decorated  walls  at  La  Cal^vie 
(the  figures  are  of  horses)  in  the  Dor- 
dogne. The  engravings  belong  to  the 
same  series  as  do  those  of  the  other 
caves  in  this  region,  particularly  the 
figures  of  Pair  non  Pair. 

Deecke  (W. )  Zur  Eolithenfrage  auf  RU- 
gen  und  Bomholm.  (Mitt.  d.  Naturw. 
Ver.  zu  Greifswald,  1905,  xxxvi,  i-ii.) 
On  geological  grounds  the  author  con- 
cludes that  the  so-called  eoliths  on  the 
islands  of  Riigen  and  Bomholm  are  post- 
glacial. 

Deniker  (J. )  Les  Bulgares  et  les  Mac^- 
doniens.  Note  compl^mentaire  k  la 
communication  du  Dr  Wateff.  (Bull. 
Soc.  d' Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  \'«  s.,  v, 


459-66,  map.)     Discnsses  the  distribu- 
tion of  the  cephalic  index  in  Balgmria 
and  Macedonia,  according  to  the  investi- 
gations of  WatefT,  Pittai^  etc     In  the 
region    north  of   the   Balkans   brachy- 
cephaly  predominates,  in  the  south  doli- 
chocephaly.     Western  Rumelia  is  espe- 
cially dolichocephalic     The  indices  for 
women  follow  about  the  same  coarse  as 
for  men.     In  the  discussion  M.  Atgier 
attributed    the    brachycephaly    of    the 
north  to  a  Celto-Slav  and  the  dolicho- 
cephaly  of   the  south    to  an   "  Ibero- 
Pelasgic"  element. 

Finn  ( Hr, )  Ueber  neuere  Ausgrabungen 
in  Skandinavien.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin, 
1904,  XXXVI,  668-70.)  Notes  on  a 
bridge  of  the  early  stone  age  near  N&st- 
ved  on  the  island  of  Seeland,  a  find  (ca, 
400  A.  D. )  of  various  metal  objects  from 
Finnestorp,  Westgotland,  urn-graves 
(8th  cent.  a.  d.  )  at  Alsten  near  Stock- 
holm, a  chisel  and  two  axes  of  stone  of 
the  Lapp  stone  age  (** Arctic**  stone 
age)  from  Lillsund  in  Swedish  Norr- 
land,  and  the  richly  carved  Viking  ship 
of  TSnsberg  —  a  **  national  treasure.'* 

Funde  (Die)  im  Maglemose  und  ihre 
Zeitliche  pr&historische  Stellung.  (Glo- 
bus, Bmschwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  363-4.) 
R^sum^s  Sarauw's  account  in  the  Aar- 
boger  for  Nordisk  Oldkyndighid^  ^^Z* 
of  the  important  discovery  at  Magel- 
mose  on  the  west  coast  of  the  island  of 
Seeland  of  a  large  number  of  stone  im- 
plements, tools  of  bone  and  horn,  etc, 
indicating  a  ''station"  belonging  to  the 
earliest  neolithic  period,  or  p)erhaps  the 
period  of  transition  between  the  paleo- 
lithic and  the  neolithic  p)eriods. 

Giglioli  ( E.  H. )  Pietre  adoperate  per  la 
pesca.  (A.  p.  I'Antrop.,  Firenze,  1904, 
xxxiv,  315--6.)  Brief  account  of  the 
mogigy  or  net-stones,  in  use  on  the  Italian 
lakes,  identical  with  those  of  the  Ameri- 
can Indians,  Pacific  islanders,  etc. 

Giuff rida-Ruggeri  ( V. )  Terzo  contributo 
all'  antropologia  fisica  dei  Siculi  eneo- 
lithici  Grotto  della  Chiusilla,  alle  Ma- 
donie  presso  Isnello  circ.  di  Cefald.  ( A. 
d.  Soc.  Rom.  di  Antr.,  1905,  xi,  58- 
103,  I  pi.,  4  fgs.)  Gives  detailed  de- 
scription, with  tables,  of  the  measure- 
ments of  12  skulls,  9  femurs,  16  tibia,  8 
humeri,  5  radii,  several  sacrums  and  a 
number  of  fragmentary  bones,  etc.,  from 
the  burial  grotto  of  Chiusilla.  The  pot- 
tery and  other  industrial  remains  are  now 
in   the  Failla-Tedaldi  collection.      The 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


337 


prevailing  cnmial  form  is  the  cuneate 
ellipnoid.  The  average  capacity  of  14 
skulls  is  1477.6  ccm.,  the  cephalic  form 
for  13  male  skulls  is  dolicho-mesato  ce- 
phalic. The  estimated  stature  for  males 
is  1,686  mm.,  for  females  1,590.  These 
rather  tall  eneolithic  people  may  be  the 
ancestors  of  the  tall  Sicilian  element  of 
to-day,  related  to  the  race  of  Cro-Mag- 
non, the  "Berbers,**  and  the  "littoral 
type  *'  of  Deniker,  all  one  and  the  same 
thing.  Apparently  a  tall  type  has  ex- 
isted in  Sicily  since  eneolithic  times. 

Goldstein  ( F. )  Die  Malthusische  Theorie 
und  die  Bevdlkerung  Deutschlands. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii, 
46-50.)  Author  considers  "social  over- 
population** the  menace,  not  "Malthu- 
sian  over-population**  —  the  first  has 
been  present  in  Germany  for  some  time 
and  is  becoming  more  and  more  oppress- 
ive. Not  lack  of  food  but  excess  of 
work,  overfilling  of  occupations,  is  the 
real  trouble. 

GorganoYic-Kramberger  ( K. )  Der  pali- 
olische  Mensch  una  seine  Zeitgenossen 
aus  dem  Diluvium  von  Krapina  in  Kro- 
atien.     ( Mitt.  d.  Anthr.  Ges.  in  Wien, 

1904,  XXXIV,  187-99,  3  pi.,  9  fgs.) 
Supplementary  pap>er.  Describes  re- 
mains found  by  Dr  G.-K.'s  assistant, 
S.  Ostermann,  in  1902.  The  finds  in- 
clude some  400  bones  of  animals,  the 
lower  jaw  of  a  seven-year-old  child, 
some  teeth  of  children  and  adults  (in  all 
32),  a  few  skull  fragments  (one  showing 
a  marked  tuber  parietale)^  and  portions 
of  humeri  and  claviculae  of  two  typ>es. 
The  author  finds  two  varieties  of  men 
(the  presence  of  the  second  due  to  some 
irruption  of  a  foreign  horde)  of  the  same 
old  diluvial  species  Homo  primigcnitis  to 
be  represented  at  Krapina. 

Gustafsons  (G.)  Ueber  das  Schiff  von 
Tdnsberg.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904, 
XXXVI,  670-1.)  Brief  description  of 
the  highly  ornamented  Viking  ship  found 
near  TSnsberg,  Norway.  It  is  orna- 
mented with  animal  figures  in  the  Norse 
style,  in  relief.  The  boat  was  used  as  a 
grave. 

Halbfass  (/^^. )  Der  Einflusz  des  Gen' 
fersees  auf  die  Bevdlkerungsverteilung  in 
seiner  Umgebung.    (Globus,  Bmschwg., 

1905,  LXXXVII,  34.)  Brief  r6sum6  of 
the  section  in  Prof.  A.  Forel's  Le  L^man 
treating  of  the  influence  of  the  Lake  of 
Geneva  on  the  distribution  of  population. 


The  riparian  zone  has  great  attractive 
power, — ^the  lake  is  a  source  of  food, 
and  land-attacks  are  more  easily  repelled. 
Other  factors,  geographic,  climatic  and 
meteorologic,  have  also  been  at  work  to 
favor  this  zone  against  country  behind  it. 

Handschin  (C.  H.)  Das  Sprichwort  bei 
Hans  Sachs.  I.  Teil:  Verzeichnis  der 
SprichwOrtem.  (Bull.  Univ.  Wise, 
Phil.  Lit.  ser.,  1904,  Iii,  1-153.)  Lists 
alphabetically  under  key-words  the  prov- 
erbs and  cognate  expressions  in  Hans 
Sachs.  Rare  in  the  art-epic  of  Knight- 
hood-times ( in  Iwein  only  42  ;  in  Par- 
zival,  37 ;  in  the  Wigalois  60),  proverbs 
abound  in  the  folk-poetry  of  the  1 6th 
century. 

Handtmann  (E.^  Brettchenweberei.  (Z. 
f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904,  xxxvi,  748, 
749. )  Brief  notes  on  weaving-bcMU-ds 
lately  or  now  in  use  in  various  places  in 
northern  Germany. 

Heennaiice  (T.  W.)  Excavations  in  Cor- 
inth in  1904.  Preliminary  report.  (J. 
Amer.  Arch.,  Norwood,  Mass.,  I904f 
II  s.,  VIII,  433-41,  2  pi.,  I  fig.)  De- 
scribes the  new  stoa  near  the  old  temple 
of  Apollo,  and  certain  pieces  of  sculp- 
ture, etc.,  found. 

Hery6  ( G. )  Les  Alsaciens  sous  le  rapport 
moral  et  intellectuel.  (R.  de  I'^c. 
d' Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  xiv,  295- 
319.)  First  part  of  ethnological  study. 
Among  the  marked  characteristics  of  the 
Alsatians  are  good-nature,  honesty,  and 
industry,  but  they  are  lacking  in  vivacity 
and  initiative,  considerably  addicted  to 
drunkenness,  brave,  gay,  with  a  good 
humor.  Their  habits  and  customs  are 
patriarchal,  simple,  and  conservative, 
with  much  survival  of  superstition  and 
popular  rites  and  ideas  which  have  af- 
fected the  Christianity  of  the  country. 
"  Reversions  '*  have  been  common 
through  the  ages  and  sectarian  spirit  has 
been  fierce. 

La  colonic  allemande  du  Klingenthal. 

(Ibid.,  331-332. )  R^sum^s  the  account 
of  this  German  colony  (founded  in  1830, 
by  reason  of  the  manufacture  of  side- 
arms  )  in  Alsace  given  by  P.  A.  Helmer 
in  the  Retme  d^  Alsace  for  1903. 

Le  Morvan  en  1794.     (Ibid.,  1905, 

XV,  35-6.)  Gives  extracts  on  the 
"lourds  paysans  du  Morvan*^  their 
habits  and  customs,  from  a  book  of  recol- 
lections, etc.,  of  the  revolutionary  com- 


338 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


mitteesof  I793~95>  published  at  Paris  in 
1830,  by  M.  G.  Audiger. 

Hovtaay  (F. )  Trois  nouveaux  polissoirs. 
(Ibid..  1904,  XIV,  326-30,  2  figs.) 
Describes  rocks  used  for  polishing  stone 
implements,  as  the  holes  and  ** pits'* 
indicate  at  Chissay  in  Loir-et-Cher,  and 
La  CrimailUre,  Monthon-sur-Cher. 
Many  similar  "polishers"  have  doubt- 
less disappeared,  leaving  but  few  to 
represent  prehistoric  times. 

Kaindl  ( R. )  Neuere  Arbeiten  zur  Vdlk- 
erkunde,  Vdlkerbeschreibung  und  Volks- 
kunde  von  Galizien,  Russisch-Polen  und 
der  Ukraine.  (Globus,  Bmschwg., 
1904,  Lxxxvi,  315-18,  330-3.  4  fgs.) 
Notes  the  recent  (1902-03)  literature 
on  the  prehistory,  ethnology,  ethnog- 
raphy, folk-lore,  etc.,  of  Galicia,  Rus- 
sian Poland,  and  the  Ukraine,  contained 
in  the  publications  of  the  Cracow  Acad- 
emy of  Sciences,  the  folk-lore  journal 
Ludf  issued  by  the  Lemberg  society, 
the  Tchevtchensko  society  of  Lemberg, 
etc.,  among  which  are  included  very 
important  works  by  Fedorowski  on  the 
White  Russians ;  Kolessa  on  Galician- 
Ruthenian  folk-songs ;  Gnatiuk  on  Gali- 
cian-Ruthenian  folk-tales  (2  vols.); 
Franko  on  old  Russian  folk-tales,  etc. 
R^sum^s  are  also  given  of  recent  works 
by  Majewski,  Ketrynski,  Niederle,  Tal- 
ko-Hryncewicz,  etc.,  on  Slavic  ethnology, 
Olszewski  on  the  ethnology  and  history 
of  the  heart,  Windakiewicz  on  the 
ancient  Polish  folk-drama,  etc.  Suchie- 
wicz's  work  on  the  Huzuls  is  also  note- 
worthy. 

Koroley  (S.  A. )  Astrachanskie  Kalmyki. 
(Russk.  Antrop.  Zhum.,  Moskva,  1903, 
No.  I,  22-47,  4  fgs.,  3  diagr.).  Gives 
results  of  observation  and  measurement 
of  200  Kalmucks  of  both  sexes  and 
various  ages.  K.  compmres  the  Kal- 
mucks with  their  Asiatic  relatives  the 
Torgots,  —  the  effect  of  the  European 
environment  of  ca.  130  years  is  seen, 
but  the  basal  race  characters  remain. 
Of  93  males  between  the  ages  of  21  and 
65  years,  56.99  %  had  a  stature  between 
1576  and  1675  mm.  The  average  ceph- 
alic index  of  96  males  of  like  ages  was 
81.08. 

Larson  (L.  M. )  The  king's  household 
in  England  before  the  Norman  conquest. 
(Bull.  Univ.  Wise.,  Hist,  ser.,  1904,  I, 
55-204.)  A  good,  well -documented 
account,  with  index,  of  the  old  English 
court,  its  constitution,  officials,  etc 


Lissauer  (A.)  Erster  Bericht  Uber  die 
T&tigkeit  der  von  der  Deutschen  an- 
thropologischen  Gesellschaft  gew&hlten 
Kommission  flir  pr&historische  Typen- 
karten.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904, 
XXXVI,  537-607,  62  fgs.,  3  maps.) 
This  valuable  first  report  of  the  com- 
mittee of  the  German  Anthropological 
Society  on  prehistoric  type-maps  presents 
distribution  maps  of  flat  and  rimmed 
bronze  axes,  oar  and  disk  head  needles, 
and  wheel  head  needles,  for  the  German 
empire,  with  indications  where  speci- 
mens are  now  preserved  and  references 
to  literature.  The  rimmed  bronze  axe 
has  the  following  varieties :  Armorican 
type,  North  German,  South  German, 
Siucon,  ''nicked,"  long-stemmed.  East 
Baltic.  Transition  forms  are  very  num- 
erous. L.  wishes  to  ban  the  word  Celt 
and  use  only  Axt  (axe).  The  Armori- 
can type  is  the  simplest,  the  East  Bal- 
tic very  limited  in  occurrence.  The  oar 
needle  has  4,  the  disk  needle  2  types,  — 
there  is  also  an  East  Baltic  type  of  the 
disk  needle  with  flat  ribbon -spiral  head. 
Of  the  wheel  needle  there  are  4  tyi>es 
(earless.  Upper  Rhenish  with  one  eye. 
Central  German  with  two  and  four  ears, 
Hanoverian  with  three  ears).  L.  op- 
poses the  idea  that  the  wheel  needles 
were  developed  from  the  disk  needles. 
Long  after  the  bronze  age,  in  the 
Roman  imperial  period,  the  use  of  wheel 
needles  appears  again  in  Livonia,  etc. 

MehlU  (C. )  Die  neuen  Ausgrabungen 
im  neolithischen  Dorfe  Wallbdhl  bei 
Neustadt  a  d.  H.  und  ihre  Bedeutung 
fiir  die  Kulturgeschichte.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg,  1905,  LXXXVI  I,  128-34,  27 
fgs.)  Describes  the  important  recent 
neolithic  finds  at  Wallbdhl  in  1904, 
seeming  to  indicate  the  existence  of  a 
village  (22  huts  have  been  noted),  a 
new  fact  for  Bavaria  and  the  Palatinate. 
The  most  interesting  objects  are  ceramic 
objects,  amulets,  idols,  beads,  flints,  etc. 
This  find  establishes  a  settled  population 
in  this  region  at  ca,  2000  B.  c,  with 
trade  relations  with  western  Switzerland, 
northern  Italy,  the  Danube  country,  and 
the  shores  of  the  /Egean.  Curious  is 
the  m  on  a  pottery- fragment. 

Meier  ( S. )  Volkstiimliches  aus  dem  Frei- 
und  Kelleramt.  (Schwz.  A.  f.  Vlksk., 
Zurich,  1905,  VIII,  32-51.)  This  fifth 
section  treats  of  folklore  and  folk -cus- 
tom connected  with  the  various  saints* 
days,  etc.,  of  the  year  (St.  Martin's,  St. 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


339 


Nicholas*,  Christmas  with  its  choral  sing- 
ing, St.  John's,  St.  Silvester's  and  its 
songs  of  which  specimens  are  given,  New 
Year,  The  Three  Kings  and  the  star 
songs,  St.  Anthony's  Week,  Candlemas, 
St.  Blasius',  St.  Agatha's,  « dirty 
Thursday,"  Lent). 

Meianer  {Dr)  Ueber  Danewerk  und 
Hedeby  Ein  Riickblick  auf  vormittelal- 
terliche  Befestigungen.  (Z.  f.  Ethn., 
Berlin,  1904,  xxxvi,  675-97.)  Dis- 
cusses the  pre-medieval  fortifications, 
Danewerke,  etc.,  about  Hedeby  near 
Schleswig,  which  once  guarded  the  ap- 
proach to  the  Jutish  peninsula  ( Krumm- 
wall,  Danewerk,  Hohburg,  Osterwall, 
attributed  to  the  Danish  King  Godfrey, 
ca,  808  A.  D. ). 

Melville  (R.  D.)  The  use  and  form  of 
judicial  torture  in  England  and  Scotland. 
(Scott.  Hist.  Rev.,  Glasgow,  1905,  11, 
225-48,  28  fgs. )  Treats  briefly  of  thumb- 
screws, **pilniewinkies,"  the  rack, 
branks,  stocks,  jougs,  anklets,  heads- 
man's axe,  repentance  stool,  '*the 
maiden,"  etc.  In  Scotland,  contrary  to 
legal  theory  (not  practice)  in  England, 
judicial  torture  seems  to  have  been 
lawful. 

Montessori  (Maria).  Sui  caratteri  antro- 
pometrici  in  relazione  alle  gerarchie  in- 
telletuali  dei  fanciulli  nelle  scuoli.  (A. 
per  I'Antrop.,  Firenze,  1904,  xxxiv, 
243-97. )  Detailed  results  of  measure- 
ments, (weight,  height,  finger-reach, 
chest-girth,  cranial,  facial)  of  105  pupils 
( as  to  intellectual  development :  mediocre 
30,  worse  40,  better  35)  in  the  ele- 
mentary schools  of  Rome.  The  meas- 
urements for  each  individual  are  given  in 
the  tables  also  the  same  details  for  23 
best  pupils  and  23  backward  pupils.  The 
more  intelligent  pupils  were  found  to 
have  a  greater  development  of  the  head 
and  better  of  the  face.  The  two  classes 
( more  and  less  intelligent)  as  determined 
by  the  teachers  showed  chiefly  physiolog- 
ical differences,  which  tended  to  vanish 
(accentuating  the  cranial  differences  in 
favor  of  the  more  intelligent)  when  Dr 
M.  arranged  the  two  series.  Better  de- 
velopment of  head  would  seem  to  pre- 
vail among  the  well-to-do  and  the  more 
intelligent.  One  problem  has  to  do 
with  the  intelligence,  another  with  nu- 
trition. 

Nerong  (O.  C. )  Haus-  und  Viehmarken 
auf der  Insel  Fdhr.  (Globus,  Brnschwg., 
1904,  Lxxxvi,  353-5,  3  fgs. )  Describes 


house  and  cattle  marks  on  the  island  of 
Fdhr,  belonging  to  the  17th  and  i8th  cen- 
uries — their  age  is  ca.  400-500  or  600 
years.  There  are  also  duck-marks  (boring 
the  web-skin,  etc.).  The  cattle  are 
marked  by  snipping  the  ears.  The 
house-marks  are  used  on  all  sorts  of  uten- 
sils, tools,  etc.  House-marks  were  some- 
times engraved  on  seals. 

Ochsner  (J.)  VolkstUmliches  aus  Einsie- 
deln  und  Umgebung.  (Schwz.  A.  f. 
Vlksk.,  Zurich,  1904,  viii,  296-315.) 
Gives  from  MS.  of  Jakob  Ochsner  ( 1798- 
1871)  ca.  1867-1871  items  of  folk-lore 
and  folk-custom  from  the  region  of  Ein- 
siedeln,  concerning  spirits  and  gnomes, 
animals,  insects,  plants,  witches,  zusam- 
menschdlUn  (a  sort  of  cAarivari), 
**  Kindlestein,"  exorcism,  EUister  fire, 
etc. 

Oesten  (G.)  Ueber  die  bisherigen  Ar- 
beiten  der  Rethra-Kommission.  (Z.  f. 
Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904,  xxxvi,  758-64,  3 
fgs. )  Gives  account  of  recent  excava- 
tions in  the  Liep>e  region.  Author  finds 
evidence  of  Slav  settlement. 

Oliphant  (J.)  The  mariage  de  conve- 
nance  in  France.  (Intern.  J.  Ethics, 
Phila.,  1905,  XV,  189-98.)  The  mar- 
iage de  convenance  is  an  historical  con- 
vention and  has  an  ex  post  facto  defence, 
outlined  here.  It  is  materialistic  in  or- 
igin and  effect  The  convent-education 
of  girls  enabled  it  to  continue,  but  free 
intercourse  of  young  people  has  not  yet 
that  completeness  which  will  abolish  it. 

Ottolenghi  (S.)  La  nuova  *'cartella  bio- 
grafica  dei  pregiudicati "  adottata  nell' 
amministrazione  di  P.  S.  (A.  d.  Soc. 
Rom.  di  Antrop.,  1905,  xi,  104-29.) 
Reproduces,  with  explanatory  notes  and 
instructions  for  observers,  the  "bio- 
graphic record"  for  prisoners  adopted 
by  the  police  authorities  of  the  Italian 
government  in  1899.  and  since  amended 
or  rather  remade  by  Professor  O.  in  1 902 
and  adopted  by  the  Government  in  Jan. 
1904  for  all  Italy. 

Pellandini  ( V. )  Usi  e  costumi  di  Bedano, 
Ticino.  (Scnwz.  A.  f.  Volksk.,  ZUrich, 
1904,  VIII,  241-67.)  Treats  of  region 
and  localities,  parish  and  church,  indus- 
try, professions,  trades,  etc.,  folk  foods 
and  drinks,  religious  festivals  and  usages, 
carnival  customs,  "stable  evenings," 
baptism,  and  christening,  weddings,  per- 
sonal nicknames,  language  (glossary  of 
Bedano  dialect,  pp.  258-67).     Bedano 


340 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


(population  332)  was  a  century  ago  the 
cradle  of  artists  of  no  mean  sort  and 
even  now  its  fame  for  learned  men  is  not 
at  all  extinct. 

Pemice  (£.)  Ueber  die  Gr&ber  in  Thu- 
row  bei  Ziissow.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin, 
1904,  xxxxvi,  752-8,  4  fgs.)  De- 
scribes stone  graves  at  Thurow  and  con- 
tents, urn-burial,  pottery  fragments,  gold 
spiral,  bronze  needle,  etc 

Pittard  (£. )  De  la  survivance  d*un  type 
crftnien  n^groide  dans  les  populations 
anciennes  et  contemporaines  de  P  Europe. 
(A.  d.  Sciences  phys.  et  nat.,  Gendve, 
1904,  XVII,  625-39.)  From  examina- 
tion of  47  skulls  from  the  ossuary  (early 
medieval)  at  Sierre  in  the  canton  of 
Valais,  P.  discovered  two  female  skulls 
(indexes  71.05,  76.84)  resembling  the 
Grimaldi  type,  and  pronouncedly  ne- 
groid. P.  believes  that  the  representa- 
tives of  this  Quaternary  tjrpe  were  not 
confined  to  southern  France. 

Pndor  (H. )  Nordische  Reise.  (Mitt  d. 
k.  k.  geogr.  Ges.  in  Wien,  1905, 
XLVIII,  133-72.)  Treats  of  Stockholm 
(architecture,  painting,  museums,  etc.), 
St  Petersburg  (social  phenomena,  street- 
life,  markets,  etc.),  Moscow  (architec- 
ture), Finland  (architectural  renais- 
sance, the  Finnish  question,  art  and 
artists,  Runeberg,  Vallgren,  Edelfelt, 
Gallen  with  his  Aino-mythos,  J&inefelt, 
Sibelius,  composer  of  music),  etc. 

Reich  (E.)  The  present  state  of  Europe. 
(Intern.  Quart.,  N.  Y.,  1905,  x,  211- 
26. )  Treats  of  the  cyclone  of  imperial- 
ism and  its  innominate  anti-cyclone,  etc. 
British  imperialism  is  **  need-bom," 
German,  **  brain -bom,'*  Russian,  the 
expansion  of  space,  not  force.  The 
price  of  Spanish  imperialism  was  bigotry. 
French  lumiirnsm  is  skin-deep.  Amid 
all  these  war  is  imminent. 

Roberts  (P. )  The  Sclavs.  (Intem.  Quart., 
N.  Y.,  1904,  X,  32-45.)  General  discus- 
sion of  history,  race,  and  recent  progress. 
The  author,  who  spells  the  name  *  *  Sclav, '  * 
speaks  of  '<the  coming  of  the  Sclav  to 
Europe,"  adopting  outgrown  ethnological 
theories.  On  the  average,  he  **  is  as  good 
an  anima)  as  the  average  member  of  any 
European  people."  Socially  and  indus- 
trially, but  not  physically  or  intellectually, 
he  occupies  a  lower  place.  Ethno-senti- 
mental  motives  are  factors  in  Russian 
progress.  Another  Peter  the  Great  may 
make  a  reality  of  Panslavism. 


Report  of  committee  appointed  by  the 
Society,  at  the  request  of  Mr  Bruce,  to 
cooperate  with  him  in  the  excavation  of 
a  pile  structure  at  Langbank  in  October, 
1902.  (Trans.  Glasgow  Archeol.  Soc, 
1905,  N.  s.,  V,  52-3,  pi. )  Corroborates 
Mr  Bruce' s  details. 

Schenk  ( A. )  Les  squelettes  pt^historiques 
de  Chamblandes,  Suisse.  (R.  de  I'Ec. 
d'Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  xiv,  335-78, 
15  figs.)  Describes,  with  details  of 
cranial  measurements  especially,  the  hu- 
man remains  (29  skeletons  in  all,  of 
which  a  number  were  not  in  condition  to 
examine  carefully)  found  in  the  <<  cubic 
graves  "  of  Chamblandes,  near  Lausanne, 
in  1901.  One  female  skull  is  treated  at 
length  ( 349-354 )  •  The  average  cephalic 
index  is  74-94;  the  estimated  brain- 
weight  raises  the  Chamblandes  people 
above  those  of  modem  ** lower  races" 
and  tends  to  approach  that  of  the  Euro- 
peans of  to-day,  although  they  were 
of  small  stature.  Three  chief  cranial 
tjrpes  (Herv6's  Baumes-Chaudes,  prob- 
ably the  descendant  of  the  Magdalenian 
paleolithic  race  of  Laugerie-Chancelade  ; 
the  Grimaldi  type  of  Vemeau,  of  negroid 
nature  ;  a  neolithic  dolichocephalic  t3rpe 
of  northern  origin, — two  skulls  only)  are 
recognized.  The  other  remains  (flints, 
omaments,  axes,  etc.),  indicate  the  first 
part  of  the  age  of  polished  stone  as  the  peri- 
od of  sepulture,  and  complicated  funeral 
ceremonies  were  probably  in  vogue.  S. 
considers  that  the  remains  at  Cham- 
blandes prove  that  Switzerland  was  in- 
habited at  the  end  of  the  paleolithic  and 
beginning  of  the  neolithic  age  by  the 
ancient  prehistoric  races  of  northem  and 
western  Europe. 

Schmidt  (H.)  Troja-Mykene— Ungam. 
Arch&ologische  Parallelen.  (Z.  f.  Ethn., 
Berlin,  1904,  xxxvi,  608-56,  34  figs.) 
Discusses  archeological  parallels  in  the 
prehistoric  culture  of  Troy,  Mycenae,  and 
Hungary.  Bodily  omaments  (buckles, 
spirals,  etc.),  the  culture  of  the  Thraci, 
the  neolithic  culture  of  the  Danubian 
and  Balkan  countries  ( Lengyel,  Tordos, 
etc.), — painted  ceramics  in   particular. 

'  S.  holds  that  the  evidence  justifies  the 
belief  that  certain  ceramic  and  orna- 
mental forms  were  carried  by  migrating 
tribes  from  central  Europe  to  the  yEgean 
culture-area,  and  that  Thracian  peoples 
had  their  share  in  the  development  of  the 
narrower  Mycenaean  culture. 


CHilMBERLAIN] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


341 


Schmit  ( £. )  Investigation  d'  un  puits  fbn^- 
raire  de  I'^poque  n^olithique  (p^riode 
camao6enne)  \  Pocancy,  Marne.  (Bull. 
Soc.  d'Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v«  s.,  v, 
466-9. )  Brief  account  of  a  burial  pit  of 
die  Cunacean  epoch  and  its  contents 
(several  skeletons  discovered  some  15 
years  ago  ;  two  amulets  of  serpentine, 
etc.).  M.  Schmit,  with  Manouvrier, 
points  out  the  importance  of  a  scientific 
investigation  of  dolmens,  etc.,  previously 
explored  in  non-scientific  fiiishion. 

Schneider  (K. )  Die Entwaldung Istriens. 
( Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  297- 
9. )  Sketches  the  history  of  the  defores- 
tation of  Istria,  from  early  times  to  the 
present.  The  remains  found  in  the  pre- 
historic **  stations ' '  indicate  forests  where 
none  are  now.  Neither  the  Romans  nor 
the  Venetians,  but  the  inhabitants  of  the 
peninsula  are  to  be  credited  with  most  of 
the  destruction. 

Schoener  (J.  G.)  Die  Kolonization  SQd- 
west-Finnlands  durch  Schweden.  (Mitt. 
-  d.  k.  k.  geogr.  Ges.  in  Wien,  1905, 
XLViii,  173-4.)  R6sum6s  the  views  as 
to  the  Swedish  colonization  of  Finland 
contained  in  Wiklund's  recent  work  A'ar 
kommo  Svenskame  till  Finland  ?  (  Up- 
sala,  7901).  Montelius  holds  that  the 
Swedes  have  inhabited  Finland  for  some 
4000  years,  while  the  Finns  came  there 
only  aiter  the  beginning  of  the  Christian 
era.  Archeologic  and  linguistic  data 
alike  indicate  the  presence  of  the  Swedes 
in  Finland  ca.  2000  B.  c. 

Stasi  (P.  £.)  e  RegalU  (E.)  Grotta 
Romanelli  (C!astro,  Terra  d'  Otranto) 
stazione  con  faune  interglaciali  calde  e  di 
steppa.  Nota  preventiva.  (A.  per  T- 
Antrop.,  Firenze,  1904,  xxxiv,  17-81, 
4  pi. )  Detailed  account  of  grotto  with 
interglacial  (warm  epoch  and  step[>e 
period)  animal  remains,  among  them  an 
Asiatic  member  of  the  Equidti — all  in- 
troduced into  the  cave  by  hunters.  In 
the  early  part  of  this  epoch  man  pos- 
sessed, besides  fire,  a  lithic  industry  no 
longer  primitive,  later  a  stage  corre- 
sponding to  a  part  of  the  Solutrean. 
During  the  subsequent  glacial  period, 
and  since,  the  cave  seems  to  have  been 
visited  by  man. 

▼.  Stenin  fP.)  Der  Geist  der  Getreide- 
darre  una  sein  Namensfest  bei  den  Gross- 
russen.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904, 
LXXXVI,  366.)  R^sum^s  Balofs  ac- 
count in  the  Shivopisnaia  Rossiia  of  the 
owinny  or  protective  deity  of  the  grain- 


driers  among  the  Great  Russians  and  the 
celebration  of  his  name-feast. 

Tarbell  (F.  B.)  Some  present  problems 
in  the  history  of  Greek  sculpture. 
(Amer.  J.  Arch.,  Norwood,  Mass., 
1904,  II  s.,  VIII,  442-459.)  Discusses 
ideal  history,  rdle  of  copies  in  recon- 
struction of  history  of  Greek  sculpture, 
variation  in  the  works  of  a  single  master, 
etc. 

V.  Ein  altnordisches  Freilichtmuseum. 
(Globus,  Brnschwg.,  1904,  lxxxvi, 
296-7. )  Brief  account  of  the  open-air 
museum  for  Norwegian  archeologic  and 
ethnographic  antiquities  recently  estab- 
lished in  the  little  town  of  Lillehammer 
in  the  heart  of  Norway,  —  the  Majhau- 
gen^  as  it  is  called.  Here  the  objects 
are  preserved  in  the  very  houses  them- 
selves ;  art  and  architecture  are  genuine 
and  real. 

Restaurierung     der      hanseatischen 

Ringmauer  in  Wisby.  (Ibid.,  379-80. ) 
Brief  account  of  the  restoration,  now 
completed,  by  the  Swedish  government, 
of  the  famous  ring  wall  of  Wisby,  one 

-  of  the  most  important  remains  of  Hanse- 
atic  architecture  and  fortification  in  the 
North. 

Voroblev  (V.  V.)  Astrachanskie  Kal- 
myki.  ( Russk.  Antrop.  Zhur.,  Moskva, 
1903,  No.  I,  1-22.)  General  descrip- 
tion of  the  physical  characteristics  of  the 
Astrakan  Kalmucks  based  on  the  author's 
observations  of  75  individuals.  The 
chief  anthropometric  data  concerning 
these  75  are  compared  (p.  12)  with 
those  obtained  by  Metchnikov,  Koll- 
mann,  Deniker,  Erkert,  Ivanovski,  etc. 
Vorobiev's  average  stature,  1642.2  mm., 
is  higher  than  that  of  the  others.  The 
limbs  of  the  Kalmucks  show  the  effect  of 
nomadic  horse-life.  The  average  cep- 
halic index  is  83.05.  The  Mongolian 
characters  are  especially  marked  in  the 
young. 

Waagen  (L.)  Fahrten  und  Wanderun- 
gen  der  nordlichen  Adria.  (Mitt.  d. 
k.k.  geogr.  Ges.  in  Wien,  1905,  XLViii, 
3-30. )  Treats  of  the  islands  of  Veglia 
(with  the  kolo  dance  and  bugarija  or 
hero-songs),  Cherso  (with  the  tomb  of 
St.  Gaudentnis,  who  banished  all  poison- 
ous snakes]  and  Arbe,  whose  cathedral 
contains  St  Christopher's  head. 

Wateff  (S.)  Contribution  ^  I'itude  an- 
thropologique  des  Bulgares.  ( Bull.  Soc. 
d'Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v«  s.,  v,  437- 


342 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


58,  7  ^.)  Rinunii  (be  results  of  an- 
thropome^k  obiervaCions  on  36,493 
soldieii  (age  19-35),  319,841  school- 
childicn  (age  6-10),  several  hundred 
other  Bulgarian)  of  all  ages,  500  braiiu 
of  Bulgaiiaus  of  all  ages,  and  1,330 
crania,  a  few  of  which  belong  lo  the  I3tb 
century.  Height,  color  of  eyn,  hair  and 
■kin,  meAsuieinents  of  head  and  face,  and 
weight  of  brain  are  conadered.  The 
Bulgarians  are  piedominantly  (50  per 
cent.)  bninet,  only  5  per  cent,  being 
blonds ;  have  an  BTerage  stature  of 
166.5  '^'^-  'i"  "'"^  (women  156.7)  ;  are 
laii^ly  (77  pet  ceoL)  mesocephalic ; 
have  an  average  brain -weight  of  138S  gr. 
(or  men  and  1260  for  women.  The 
heaviest  brains  come  from  the  Macedon- 
ians, (he  lowest  average  from  the 
■outhem  Bulgarians.  The  male  country 
people  have  heavier  brains  than  the 
Drban  population.  The  heaviest  male 
brain  (1S50  gr.)  belonged  to  a  peasant, 
as  did  also  the  heaviest  female  brain 
(•440  gf) 

WlbllDK  ( C. )  DrottninghSgen  i  Helsing- 
boi^.  [Ymer,  Stckhlm.,  1904,  xxiv, 
359-aSo,  13  ^)  Deicribes  a  prehis. 
tone  tumului  at  Helsingborg  and  con- 
tents ( Rint  objects,  potsherds,  pitted  and 
"cup"  stones. 

Wilwr   (L.)     Ui^eschichtliche  Neger  in 
Europa.     (Globus,    Bmschwg.,    1905,   I 
LXxxvlI,  45-6.)      Rtsumis  daU  as   to    ' 
the  existence  in   Europe  in   prehistoric   I 
times  of  a  negroid  race.     The  earliest 
evidence  was  the  skull  from  the  Maas 
Valley  described  by   Spring    in    1S55. 
Since  then  the  finds  in  Monaco  ( Doute), 
on  Lake  Geneva  (Schenk),  in  Armorica 
(Vemeau,  Hervft),  etc.,  have  strength- 
ened   (he   case,    and    now    little    doubt 
exists,  according  to  W.,   of  the  former 
presence  of  negro-like  peoples  in  south- 
western Europe. 

Zaboiowald  (S.)  L'sutocthonisme  des 
Slaves  en  Europe,  Ses  premiers  difen- 
seurs.  (R.  I'Ec.  d'Antbr.  de  Paris, 
1905,  XV,  3-17.)  Treats  of  the  various 
theories  as  to  the  European  origin  of  the 
Slavs,  from  the  andent  Russian  Chronic 
of  Nestor  down  to  ethnologists,  etc., 
of  the  iSth  and  19th  centuries  — Suro, 
wiecki,  Schafarik,  I^lewel,  Malte-Brun, 
Wilser.  Saraokvasov,  etc.  Z.  upholds 
the  European  origin,  —  probably  in  the 
Danubian  region. 
Zlndel-Krelasig  (A.)  Die  Knabengesell- 
schaft    von    Sargans.      (Schwz.   A.    f. 


Gives  the  15  articles  of  organiaatiiin  oL 
the  Knabengeiellschaf)  or  youth's  soci- 
ety, of  Sargans  in  1833.  ^nAmtrUan 
AHlhropologiit,  1905,  N.  S.,  Vti,  141. 
ZQiidMT  (G.)  u.  Keliittard  (M.)  Aller- 
hand  Aberglauben  aus  dem  Kantoo 
Bern.  (Ibid.,  367-81.)  Gives  160 
items  of  popular  superstilians,  etc, 
from  the  Canton  of  Bern  concerning 
children,  domestic  animals  and  indus- 
tries, clothing,  dreams,  folk-inedidne, 
marriage,  death,  sickness,  bewitching, 
ghosts,  etc. 

AFRICA 

BAgt*  (S. )  The  circumcision  ceremony 
among  the  Naivasha  Masai.  (J.  Anthr. 
Inst.,  Lotid.,  1904,  167-9.)  Describes 
briefly  the  E-unolo  feast,  the  boy's  feait, 
the  operation  of  circumcision  after  these  ; 
also  the  circumcision  of  girls.  The 
E-HHolo  lasts  for  3  months,  the  other  fbc 
two  days.  For  gitis  the  operator  is  a 
female  (usually  the  mother),  (or  boys  • 
member  of  the  Andoro-tribe,  who  are 
cattle -slayers.  No  uncircumdsed  youth 
can  have  connection  with  a  drcimicised 
woman,  but  may  with  an  uncircumdied 
girl. 

BMUch  ( Ein )  beim  Bangalah&npUiiig 
Katchnngo.  (Mitt.  d.  k.  Ic  geogr. 
Ges.  in  Wien,  1905,  XLvm,  103-7.) 
Reproduces  from  the  Nal.  Ztifung-  s 
description  of  the  Bangala,  a  little  risited 
tribe  of  central  Africa,  who  are  said  to 
be  still  cannibals.  The  chief  and  hit 
surroundings, are  discussed. 

Blyden  (E.  W.)  The  Koran  in  Africa. 
(J.  Afric.  Soc.,  Lond.,  1905,  iv,  157- 
71.)  Treats  of  the  influence  of  the 
Koran,  the  Arabic  language,  and  the 
feast  of  Ramadhan,  in  negro  Africa. 
The  African  Muslims  object  to  being 
called  Muhammedans  and  pay  less  re- 
gard to  tradition  than  to  the  words  of 
(he  sacred  teat.  Their  chief  objections 
to  Christianity  are  :  Its  desocialiiing  in- 
fluence (breaking  up  (amily  ties,  disinte- 
grating communities),  its  priesthood 
caste,  its  countenance  of  the  liquor  traific 
and  liquor  drinking.  In  many  respects 
the  Muslim  facts  are  best  and  acts  of 
Christian  missionaries  and  their  country- 
men, not  preachings,  are  necessary.  The 
Koran  (chap.  31  is  said  to  re(er  to  a 
negro)  and  the  Muslims  have  00  negro- 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


343 


Crawford  (D.)  African  shibboleths.  A 
new  check  in  philology.  (Ibid.,  232- 
7.)  Among  these  are  Arab  w  for  v 
(e.  g.  Luban),  Vemba  /  (Luban  v), 
Rugaruga  g  for  ^,  Luapula  c  for  ch^  etc. 
The  Arab,  *«  willy-nilly,  is  a  disturbing 
feature  both  in  African  lands  and  African 
languages. "  He  has  <<  marked  indelibly 
his  Semitic  phonology  on  the  musical 
Bantu  tongues.'*  The  blend  of  the  east 
coast  is  Arab  in  mouth  and  African  in 
mind.  The  Luban  makes  fun  of  it  in  a 
little  song. 

CummiiiB  ( S.  L. )  Sub-tribes  of  the  Bahr- 
el-Ghazal  Dinkas.  (J.  Anthr.  Insti 
Lond.,  1904,  XXXIV,  149-66,  I  pi.,  3 
fgs. )  Notes  on  customs,  occupations 
and  pursuits;  legal,  ethical,  and  reli- 
gious ideas ;  superstition  (witchcraft, 
hostile  magic)  ;  arts  and  designs  (clay 
models  of  cattle )  ;  music  and  song  ( Eng- 
lish versions  of  four  given),  etc.,  of  the 
Dinkas  and  Golo,  with  a  few  notes  on 
the  Jur.  Among  the  Dinka  a  ceremony 
of  speech  obtains.  The  Dinkas  are  bet- 
ter spearmen  and  cattle-herds  than  hun- 
ters ;  possession  of  cattle  is  the  great 
ambition,  and  tending  them  the  chief 
occupation.  Force  of  public  opinion 
regulates  conduct.  The  Dinkas  have  a 
good  map-making  sense. 

Darker  (G.  F. )  Niger  delta  natives,  with 
special  reference  to  maintaining  and  in- 
creasing the  population  of  southern 
Nigeria.  (J.  Afric.  Soc.,  Lond.,  1905, 
IV,  206-26,  2  pi.,  3  maps.)  After  in- 
troductory remarks  on  the  decrease  of 
primitive  peoples,  author  discusses  the 
population  of  southern  Nigeria  as  di- 
vided into  three  classes,  according  to 
hygienic  zones  :  Waterside  peoples  — 
people  of  the  mangrove  swamps  (the 
''islands"  are  ideal  places  for  keeping 
slaves ;  each  is  a  little  town,  with  a 
"chief**)  ;  inland  peoples  near  the 
coast  —  people  of  the  bush  (producers 
of  oil  and  nuts)  ;  inland  peoples  proper 
near  to  Africa  civilization  ;  grass  and 
forest  men  (hardier  type,  with  iron  in- 
dustry and  cotton  cloth).  Diseases  are 
discussed,  also  native  hygiene,  with 
proposals  for  health  improvement.  In 
two  appendices  (pp.  220-6),  **  Negroes 
in  the  United  States  '*  and  **  Negroes  in 
the  West  Indies'*  are  considered. 

David  (J.)  Weitere  Mitteilungen  tiber 
das  Okapi.  (Globus,  Brnschwg,  1904, 
Lxxxvi,  385-6.)  Gives  some  of  the 
native  names  of  this  animal,  notes  on  its 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  7-93 


distribution,  knowledge  of  the  pygmies, 
etc. 

Deyrolle  (— )  Les  haouanet  de  Tunisie. 
(Bull.  Soc.d* Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v«s., 
V,  395-404*  3  fgs. )  Treats  of  the  sepul- 
chral chambers  known  as  haouanet 
("shops")  from  their  resemblance  to 
the  shops  of  the  Suks  of  the  Barbary 
coast.  Of  188  existing  in  Tunis,  the 
author  has  visited  138,  of  which  94  were 
discovered  by  him.  Variations  in  form, 
etc.,  ornamentation,  sculptures,  engrav- 
ii^gs,  paintings  (ornamental,  symbolical, 
animal)  are  briefly  described.  The 
sculptures  recall  the  South  Algerian  rock 
carvings,  etc.  The  haouanet  themselves 
find  analogues  in  Sicily  and  in  the  arti- 
ficial grottoes  of  Mame. 

Fairclough  (T.  L. )  Notes  on  the  Basuto, 
their  history,  country,  etc.  (J.  Afric. 
Soc.,  Lond.,  1905,  IV,  194-205,  4  pi.) 
Treats  of  the  early  history  of  the  Basuto, 
who  intruded  on  the  Bushmen,  their  first 
chiefs,  wars,  etc.  ;  names  of  mountains 
and  rivers  ;  rain-making ;  guilds  and  in- 
itiation schools  for  boys  and  girls  ;  bur- 
ial customs,  salutations,  etc.  A  famine- 
origin  of  cannibalism  is  suggested  (p. 
197).  In  the  rain-making  of  1885  more 
than  10,000  people  took  part  in  the 
Leribe  district  alone.  Left-handed  na- 
tives are  rare.  The  native  population  of 
Basutoland  increased  from  about  218,500 
in  1891  to  347»73i  »"  ^904- 

Fies  ( K. )  Der  Hostamm  in  Deutsch-To- 
go.  (Globus,  Brnschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvi, 
13-17,  2  fgs. )  Treats  of  history  and  mi- 
gration of  the  Ho(Eewe)  people,  their 
wars  with  Ashanti,  their  attachment  to 
the  Germans  of  Togo,  etc.  Religion 
(heaven  and  earth  are  husband  and 
wife),  chiefdom  and  'government  (king, 
judges,  male  assembly  of  those  above  fif- 
teen years  of  age)  are  briefly  considered. 

van  Gennep  (A.)  Ueber  das  T&touieren 
in  Nordafrika.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin, 
1904,  XXX VI,  749-50. )  Adds  to  article 
of  Trager  (see  Amer.  Anthr  op,,  1904, 
N.  S.,  VI,  732)  facts  concerning  tattoo- 
ing among  the  Khumir,  a  mountain- 
people  of  Tunis.  Words  for  tattooing 
are  discussed.  The  cross  here  is  not  of 
Christian  origin. 

GigUoli  (E.  H.)  II  sale-moneta  dell' 
Etiopia.  (A.  per  I'Antrop.,  Firenze, 
1904,  XXXIV,  183-7.)  Describes  the 
*' salt-money"  of  Ethiopia,  obtained 
from  Ar6h,  in  the  territory  of  the  Taltal, 


344 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


its  use  and  how  it  is  obtained.  There 
are  four  varieties — ganfur^  Umedign^ 
amoliif  txAfescesc, 

Hvgnet  ( J. )  La  valeur  physique  g^nerale 
des  indigenes  Sahariens.  (R.  de  TEc. 
d'Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  xiv,  263-82, 
II  fgs.)  R^sum^s  data  as  to  constitu- 
tion, temperament,  stature,  chest-girths, 
acuity  of  vision,  vaccination,  intelligence 
of  119  men  from  various  parts  of  the 
south  and  extreme  south  of  the  Algerian 
Sahara,  examined  as  to  aptitude  for 
military  service  and  all  Arabs  by  races, 
with  ethnographic  notes.  More  than 
half  were  rejected.  The  average  stature 
was  1.68  m.  The  chest-girth  of  the 
nomad  shepherds  exceeded  that  of.  the 
nomad  hunters.  There  was  one  my- 
opic. The  Saharians  are  more  intelli- 
gent than  the  people  of  the  Tell. 

Contribution  2l   I'^tude  sociologique 


des  femmes  Sahariennes.  (Ibid.,  411- 
14.  ^  Brief  notes  on  Arab,  Berber,  Tua- 
reg, Mzab,  and  other  women  of  the 
Saharian  tribes.  The  absence  of  the 
men  from  the  family  tent  for  days  leads 
to  a  certain  freedom  on  the  part  of 
the  women,  grudgingly  given  by  jealous 
husbands  and  often  cruelly  avenged. 
Daughters  are  property  and  disposed  of 
as  such.  Virginity  is  often  relative  ( the 
Tuaregs  practise  inHbulation).  Famous 
are  the  Ulad  Nallox  Saharian  prostitutes, 
who  had  their  representatives  in  antiquity. 

Hvtter  (F.)  Aug.  Chevalier's  Forsch- 
ungs  expedition  von  Ubangi  durch  das 
Stromgebiet  des  Schari  nach  dem 
Tsadsee.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1904, 
Lxxxvi,  299-302. )  R^sum^s  the  re- 
sults of  Chevalier's  Tchad  expedition, 
with  a  few  notes  on  the  natives  (Gulla- 
Homer).  In  German  Bomu  an  old  Sd 
settlement  was  discovered,  with  traces  of 
another  almost  extinct  people. 

Johnston  (A.)  French  policy  in  Mada- 
gascar. (J.  Afric.  Soc.,  1904,  IV,  78- 
81.)  Brief  notes  on  statistics  and  facts 
relating  to  the  French  colony  contained 
in  Gen.  Galli^ni's  eighth  annual  report 
(1903).  The  authorities  are  endeavor- 
ing to  reduce  the  mortality  of  new-bom 
infants  and  women  in  child-birth.  A 
children' s^/^  has  been  instituted.  The 
European  population  is  slowly  increasing. 

Kirk  (J.  W.  C. )  The  Yibirs  and  Midgdns 
of  Somaliland,  their  traditions  and  dia- 
lects. (Ibid.,  91-108.)  Treats  of 
present  condition,  tribal  names,  activities, 


of  these  two  outcast  peoples,  who  spedk 
Somali,  but  also  have  each  their  pnvmte 
dialect  kept  secret  from  other  tribes; 
traditions  concerning  Mohammed  Hanif, 
the  ancestors  of  the  Yibirs  language, 
specimens  of  word-formation  and  brief 
lists  of  words  are  given.  (The  dialects 
are  based  on  Somali,  and  one  Midgin 
said  <<his  language  was  invented  by  his 
ancestors  in  the  jungle  as  a  secret  code  "  ). 

Lederbogen  ( W. )  Duala  fables.  ( Ibid. , 
56-77. )  Gives  English  text  (translated 
from  German  of  author  by  Miss  M. 
Huber)  of  14  fables  from  the  Doala  erf* 
the  Cameroons. 

Malerei  (Die)  in  Abessinien.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1904,  LXXXVI,  237-329, 
6  fgs. )  R^sum^s  Dr  C.  Keller's  article 
Ueber  Maler  und  Malerei  in  Abessinien 
in  the  Jahresbericht  d.  Geogr.-Ethnogr. 
Ges.  in  Ziirich  for  1903-04.  Abyssinian 
painting  is  of  Christian  Byzantine  origin 
and  the  best  specimens  are  in  the 
churches.  To-day  European  influences 
are  making  themselves  felt  in  many  ways. 

Manonyrier  ( L. )  ^/  Capitan  ( A.  ^  l&tude 
anthropologique  et  arch^ologique  de 
I'fegypte  d'aprds  le  recent  livre  de  M. 
Chantre.  ( R.  de  1'  Ec.  d'  Anthr.  de  Pkris, 
1905,  XV,  18-30,  9  fgs.)  R^sum^s  the 
anthropological  (Manouvrier)  and  arch- 
eological  (Capitan)  data  in  Chantre's 
Recherches  anthropologiques  dans 
r  Afrique  orientaU.  Egypte  ( Lyon,  1 904 ) 
relating  to  the  ancient  and  modem 
Egyptians.  Chantre  concludes  that 
Egypt  represents  an  autochthonous  Lib- 
yan culture,  on  which  foreign  inroads 
have  made  little  or  no  durable  impres- 
sion. The  Egyptians  are  morphologic- 
ally one  with  the  Bedja,  Berbers,  etc. 
In  the  Egyptian  regions  neolithic  "sta- 
tions" are  abundant,  megaliths  rare. 

Melnhof  (C.)  Ueber  M.  Merker's 
"Masai."  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904, 
XXXVI,  735-44. )  Critique  of  Merker's 
Die  Masai  (Berlin,  1904)*  Meinhof 
discusses  and  rejects  Merker's  theory 
that  the  Masai  and  the  Israelites  were 
once  one  people  and  that  the  Masai 
legends  are  older  than  those  of  the  latter 
as  contained  in  the  Bible.  The  Masai 
are  rather  a  Hamitic  i>eople. 

Nathan  ( M. )  The  Gold  Coast  at  the  end 
of  the  seventeenth  century  under  the 
Danes  and  Dutch.  (J.  Afric.  Soc.,  Lond., 
1904-5,  IV,  1-32.)  Translation  (pp. 
10-32)  from  a  description  of  the  country 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


345 


of  Guinea  by  Eric  Tylleman,  published 
at  Copenhagen  in  1697,  with  introduc- 
tion by  author.  Treats  of  the  towns 
and  forts  on  the  Gold  Coast,  the  kingdom 
of  Acara,  the  gold  on  the  Gold  Coast, 
etc. 

—  Historical  chart  of  the  Gold  Coast, 


compiled  fram  various  sources.  (Ibid., 
33-43. )  Enumerates  dates  and  events, 
1426-1900.  Gives  list  of  governors  of 
the  Gold  Coast,  Kings  of  Ashanti,  etc. 

Plehn  ( A. )  Beobachtungen  in  Kamerun. 
Ueber  die  Anschauungen  und  Gebr^uche 
einiger  Negerst&mme.  (Z.  f.  Ethn., 
Berlin,  1904,  xxxvi,  713-28,  4  fgs.) 
Treats  of  the  secret  societies  of  the 
Dualla,  etc.  (Kongolo,  Tambimbe, 
Mbomako  or  stilt- walkers,  Bajongs  — 
slave  society  —  Mungi,  Djingo),  goblins 
( Ediimo,  an  evil  earth-spirit ;  Ekelle- 
kette,  a  tormenting  sprite,  etc.),  magic 
and  '*  medicine,"  charms,  soul -lore,  an- 
thropophagy (human  sacrifice  is  not  so 
widespread  on  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  as 
cannibalism).  Remarks  by  Hr  Stand- 
inger  are  appended. 

Renner  (W. )  Native  poison.  West  Af- 
rica. (J.  Afric.  Soc.,  Lond.,  1904-5, 
IV,  109-11.^  Treats  of  the  effects  of 
eating  food  (fish )  poisoned  by  means  of 
the  ground  fruit  of  Chailletia  toxicaria, 
locally  known  in  Sierra  Leone  as 
'*  broken  back,"  from  its  inducing 
paralysis  of  the  lower  limbs  in  animals 
—  a  species  of  ratsbane .  It  is  used  by  the 
Timnes  and  Mendis  to  poison  wells  and 
streams. 

Rnete  ( S. )  Die  Schlafkrankheit  im  Kon- 
gogebiet.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
Lxxxvii,  17-18.)  R^sum^s  recent  re- 
port of  the  expedition  of  the  Liverpool 
School  for  Tropical  Medicine.  The 
tsetse-fly  is  regarded  as  the  carrier  of 
infection  in  sleeping-sickness. 

Schfitze  (W. )  Die  Handelszonen  des 
Sambesi.  ( Ibid.,  5-12,  7  fgs.)  Treats  of 
development  of  watershed  oif  Zambesi, 
policy  of  Portuguese,  British,  etc. 

Schweinfurth  (H.  G.)  Ueber  steinzeit- 
liche  Forschungen  in  Oberagypten.  (Z. 
f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904,  xxxvi,  766- 
830,  49  fgs.,  I  pi.)  Third  contribution 
to  study  of  stone  age  in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  Thebes.  Describes  58  types  of 
eoliths  (natural  pebbles,  flakes  natural 
and  intentional)  of  various  uses,  and 
compares  them  with  European  series. 
The  great  majority  of  these  eoliths  cor- 


respond to  the  most  primitive  type  of 
Reutel. 

Seiner  (F.)  Ueber  die  Ursachen  des  sUd- 
westafrikanischen  Aufstandes.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1905,  LXXXVII,  1-5.)  The 
author,  who  was  in  the  Herero  country 
in  1903,  attributes  the  uprising  of  the 
natives  to  the  '* civilization"  of  the  pro- 
tectorate, the  increase  of  the  German 
power,  the  rinderpest  of  1897  and  its 
consequences,  the  actions  of  the  traders, 
and  the  reservation  question. 

T.  (H.  R. )  The  opening  up  of  British 
East  Africa.  (J.  Afric.  Soc.,  Lond., 
1904,  IV,  44-55. )  Treats  of  chief  duties 
and  action  of  officials.  The  strength  of 
the  district  officer  <Mies  in  the  support  of 
the  authority  of  tribal  chiefs  and  in  their 
realization  of  the  extent  of  the  respon- 
sibility." The  hut  tax  is  of  very  recent 
introduction  into  East  Africa  and  Uganda. 

Tate  ( H.  R. )  Notes  on  the  Kikuyu  and 
Kamba  tribes  of  British  East  Africa. 
(J.  Anthr.  Inst.,  Lond.,  1904,  xxxiv, 
130-48,  4  pi. ,  I  fg. )  Treats  of  physical 
type,  clothing,  personal  ornaments,  lan- 
guage ( vocabularies  of  300  words  each, 
compared  with  Swahili  and  Teita) .  The 
Akikuyu  are  hard-working,  thrifty  and 
moral,  with  an  assured  future ;  also  ex- 
traordinarily prolific.  The  Akamba  are 
primarily  agriculturists,  but  not  so 
thorough  or  neat  as  the  Akikuyn.  The 
languages  of  both  are  Bantu. 

TepowA  (A.)  Notes  on  the  (Nembe) 
Brass  language.  (J.  Afric.  Soc.,  Lond., 
1904-5,  IV,  1 17-133.)  Grammatical 
notes,  vocabulary  of  some  550  words 
and  30  easy  sentences.  In  Nembe 
pleasure  is  ** sweet-mind"  (diodi/i); 
yesterday,  *  *  passed  to-morrow '  *  ( bbgdtibe 
bai)  ;  family  **one  or  a  belly"  (gbdri- 
furo).     There  are  four  articles. 

Wallis  ( B. )  The  * '  poro  * '  of  the  Mendi. 
(Ibid.,  1905,  IV,  183-89.)  Brief  ac- 
count of  >^^poro  (law,  or  "  one  word  " ), 
^^  the  governing  and  ruling  power  of  the 
natives,  embodying  everything  or  any- 
thing good  or  bad  in  the  country,  that  re- 
quires framing  into  order,  keeping  secret 
among  the  masses,  guarding  as  public 
property,  and  making  into  law.  It  is 
confined  to  boys  and  men  and  has  a 
course  of  special  training  and  prepara- 
tion. There  are  civil  and  religious 
"arms," — the  former  for  special  pur- 
poses. There  are  a  /<7r<7-house  and  a 
poro-^*  devil."     The  author  sees  some 


348 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7, 1905 


Buddhist  and  traveler,  is  represented  in 
a  group  with  deities  and  men. 

Xacdoiuld  (D.  B.)  The  moral  educa- 
tion of  the  young  among  Muslims.  (Int. 
J.  Ethics,  Phila.,  1905,  xv,  286-304.) 
Gives  Moslem  view  from  the  Koran  and 
the  Ihy&  of  al-Ghazzall  (d.  A.  D.  iiii), 
"a  man  of  the  intellectual  rank  of  Au- 
gustine." The  order  of  education  is: 
Mechanical  imitation  and  practice ;  habit, 
intellectual  acceptance  and  devotion. 
The  Arabian  Nights  is  also  referred  to 
as  valuable. 

Niehns  (H. )  Das  Ramfestspiel  Nordin- 
diens.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
Lxxxvii,  58-61,  7  fgs.)  Describes  the 
yearly  lo-day  festival  of  Ram  (hero  of 
the  Ramayana)  as  celebrated  at  Ghazi- 
pur  on  the  Ganges,  at  an  expense  of 
2,000  rupees.  The  representation  con- 
sists entirely  of  ]>antomimes  with  the 
reading  of  the  texts  of  the  Ramayana. 
No  stage  is  used  and  the  scene  is  changed 
almost  daily.  The  action  follows  the 
Ramayana. 

Sakholda  fTh.)  Presentation  d'objects 
ethnographiques  de  la  Giorgie.  ( Bull. 
Soc.  d*Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v«  s,  v., 
370-3f  3  ^g^O  Notes  on  a  calabash 
vase,  an  implement  for  softening  skin- 
thongs,  a  distaflfand  bobbin-ring,  a  bean- 
crusher,  wooden  vases  and  other  dishes, 
sort  of  snow-shoe,  a  bee-smoker,  a  New 
Year's  offering  or  tchitchilaqui^  two 
stone  amulets,  one  suspended  over  a 
door  to  protect  against  the  evil  eye,  the 
other  worn  by  a  wife  to  cure  her  hus- 
band's sickness. 

Seklemian  (A.  G. )  The  Armenian  alpha- 
bet. (Armenia,  Boston,  1904-5,  I,  No. 
6,  39-45.)  Historical  account  of  the 
"invention"  by  Mesrob  (b.  361  A.  D. ) 
of  this  alphabet.  Before  this  the  Arme- 
nian had  used  the  Phenician  alphabet, 
and,  much  earlier,  cuneiform  writing. 
Mesrob,  who  was  assisted  by  the  cali- 
grapher  Rophanus,  made  his  alphabet 
read  from  left  to  ri^ht. 

INDONESIA,    AUSTRALASIA, 
POLYNESIA 

Bouchal  ( L. )  A.  Henry  Savage  Landor'  s 
Reisen  auf  den  Philippinen.  (Mitt.  d. 
k.k.  geogr.  Ges.  in  Wien,  1905,  XLViii, 
31-51.)  Critical  r^sum^  of  Landor' s 
The  Gems  of  the  East  (2  vols.,  I^nd., 
1904 ),  with  references  to  the  chief  litera-    | 


ture  of  the  subject  The  breritj  of 
Lander's  journey  causes  one  to  ask 
whether  he  himself  could  ha^e  made 
some  of  the  detailed  observatioiis  re- 
corded. Only  the  averages  of  the  an- 
thropological measurements  are  gireo 
by  L. 

Chinesen  (Die)  auf  Java.  (Ibid.,  93-4*) 
The  Chmese  in  Java  number  265,000 
with  strong  yearly  increase ;  are  no  mere 
servants,  but  capitalists,  promoten, 
business  men,  traders,  land-exploiten, 
speculators.  The  Japanese  term  the 
Chinese  "swine,"  but  the  latter  rise  in 
spite  of  all  opposition  and  are  now  in- 
dispensable. They  learn  in  a  few  weeks 
what  does  not  come  to  a  Malay  in  his 
whole  life-time.  They  can  be  relied  oo, 
too. 

GigUoli  ( E.  H. )  Lo'scudo  pubico  e  I'as- 
tuccio  penico  degli  indigeni  del  sod  e 
sud-ovest  del  la  Nuova  Guinea.  (A.  per 
I'Antrop.,  Firenze,  1904,  xxxiv,  317- 
18.)  Describes  briefly  the  "polw 
shield,"  made  of  the  CymMum  melt 
and  known  as  /orda  or  vedere  ert^  in  ose 
in  parts  of  southern  and  southwestern 
Guinea.  The  lorda  is  often  omamentaL 
Besides  the  <<  pubic  shield,"  a  pOB 
cover  is  also  sometimes  used. 

Di  alcuni  strigili  litici  e  spedalment 

di  uno  bellissimo  dei  Landak  di  Borneo. 
(Ibid.,  319-20.)  Brief  account  of 
** skin-scrapers"  (used  after  a  bath) 
from  Hawaii,  —  called  there  fokah 
hiai-kua^  —  and  from  the  Landak,  » 
tribe  of  land-dyaks  in  Borneo.  The 
latter  is  an  elegant  and  artistic  instm- 
ment,  putting  to  shame  a  modem  EoR' 
lish  scraper  of  pumice. 

Howitt  (A.  W.)  and  Sicbert  (0^ 
Legends  of  the  Dieri  and  kindred  tribes 
of  central  Australia.  (J.  Anthr.  Ibs^j 
Lond.,  1904,  XXXIV,  100-29,  I  fr) 
Gives  English  texts  of  the  origin  of  the 
M Urdus  and  the  Kana,  how  the  Mora- 
Murd  Pariuilpa  perfected  mankind,  M«J' 
dra-Mankana  (Belly  hind-beforc),  K*°' 
ri-pariwilpa-ulu  (Two  Milky  Ways)» 
Malku-malku-ulu  (Two  Invisible  Bene- 
factors), Yuri-ulu  (Two  living  onesji 
The  Wanderings  of  the  Yuri-nlu,  A 
Circumcision  legend.  The  Pinunalkaff 
(Big  Giri  and  Little  Giri),  TbePira«» 
Wapiya  Legend,  The  Antietya  and  the 
Ngarduetya  ( Hunter  and  nardoo)^  Dar* 
ana  Legend,  Kakakudana  and  the  origu^ 
of  the  Mound  springs,  the  Mardu  legend. 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


349 


Joly  (P.  R.)  Notes  sur  les  Nouvellcs- 
H^brides.  (Bull.  Soc.  d'Anthr.  de 
Paris,  1904,  v«  s.,  v,  356-69,  3  fgs.) 
Brief  notes  on  the  natives  of  Erromango, 
Anatom,  Tanna,  Vat^,  Api,  Mallicollo 
(especially,  pp.  357-65),  Ambrym, 
rentecost,  Aurora,  Aoba,  Espiritu- 
Santo.  The  New  Hebridians  are  Mel- 
anesian  (Papuan  and  Melanesian  people) 
with  a  Polynesian  element,  in  some 
regions  recent  and  still  clearly  notice- 
able, and,  perhaps,  Negrito  traces. 
The  natives  of  Api  are  famed  for  their 
skill  in  vegetable  poisons.  Those  of 
Mallicollo  live  in  '*a  mixture  of  fero- 
cious savagery  and  joyous  childishness." 
They  fear  not  only  the  dead  but  also 
the  living,  shamans.  Impotent  old  men 
and  the  helplessly  sick  are  put  to  death. 
Caste-systems  exist  for  both  men  and 
women.  The  fragments  of  old  pottery 
at  Olal  on  the  coast  of  Ambryn  are  prob- 
ably exotic,  since  except  in  northern 
Espiritu-Santo  no  pottery  is  now  made 
in  the  New  Hebrides.  Dances  are 
common,  lasting  often  for  hours.  Three 
races  are  discernible  in  Espiritu  Santo. 

Xathews  (R.  H.)  Language  of  the 
Wuddyawtlrru  tribe,  Victoria.  (Z.  f. 
Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904,  xxxvi,  729-34.) 
Brief  sketch  of  grammar,  with  vocabulary 
of  150  words.  This  language  has  a 
trial  number.  M.  says  that  the  native 
texts  given  by  R.  B.  Smith  in  his 
Aborigines  of  Victoria^  II,  48-40,  are 
«  mere  ungrammatical  jargon." 

AMERICA 

Azara  (F.  de)  Geografia  fisica  y  esffrrica 
de  las  Provincias  del  Paraguay,  y  mis- 
iones  Guaranies.  (An.  d.  Mus.  Nac. 
de  Montevideo,  Secc.  Hist.-Filos.,  1904, 
I,  i-cxxxii,  1-478,  10  maps,  5  plans,  3 
pi.).  Azara' s  description  of  Paraguay 
from  MS.  of  1790  in  the  National  Li- 
brary, with  bibliography  (pages  liii-lx) 
introduction  (Ixiii-cxxxii),  containing 
valuable  ethnographic  and  linguistic 
matter,  and  notes  by  R.  R.  Schuller. 
The  "descripcion  general"  includes 
( 353-427 )  notes  on  the  Payagu^, 
Mbayis,  Guanas,  Lenguas,  Tupis,  Guay- 
anas,  Caingu&s,  Guaranis,  and  other  In- 
dian tribes.  Also  items  concerning  ne- 
groes, mulattos,  etc.  The  linguistic 
matter  by  Schuller  includes  a  compara- 
tive vocabulary  of  the  Guaycurd  family, 
also  one  of  the  **Nu-Aruak."  The 
tribal  names  are  discussed  in  detail  by  S. 


Bleyer  {Dr)  Ueber  die  wilden  Wald- 
indianer  Santa  Catharinas :  die  *<Schok- 
16ng."  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904, 
XXXVI,  830-44,  5  fgs.)  Treats  briefly 
of  physical  appearance,  dwellings,  dances, 
food  (preponderatingly  animal ;  fond  of 
honey),  basketry,  ornament,  weaving, 
wood-carving,  flute,  weapons,  hunting 
and  capture  of  animals,  bow  and  arrow, 
relations  with  whites,  Shokl^ng  skull, 
kidnapping,  diseases  (syphilis  and  lep- 
rosy unknown ),  death  and  burial.  They 
live  in  small  hordes,  have  ho  hammocks, 
do  not  smoke,  have  no  plantations. 

Bamham  (J.  H.)  The  coming  of  the 
Mississagas.  (Ont.  Hist.  Soc.,  Pap  & 
Rec,  Toronto,  1905,  vi,  7-1 1.)  Re- 
cords on  the  authority  of  Chief  Paudash, 
grandson  of  Cheneebeesh  (d.  1869,  age 
104),  <<the  solenm  tradition  of  the 
Mississagas  respecting  their  present  place 
of  settlement  in  Ontario  and  the  migra- 
tion which  led  them  thither."  The 
Mississagas  are  incorrectly  said  to  be 
<*  Shawnees,"  and  to  them  is  attributed 
the  Otonabee  serpent  mound — a  struc- 
ture said  by  Boyle  to  be  *<most  undoubt- 
edly the  work  of  ,a  people  who  occupied 
the  soil  long  before  the  coming  of  the 
Mississagas." 

Dr  Herrmann  Meyers  deutsche  Ackerbau- 
Kolonieen  in  aQdbrasilien.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  346-9,  4  fgs. ) 
Brief  account  of  the  German  colonies  in 
the  heart  of  Rio  Grande  do  Sul,  founded 
in  1897  ^y  ^^  Meyer,  after  his  firs 
Xingt^  expedition. 

Dn  Bols  (W.  E.  B.)  The  development 
of  a   people.     (Int.   J.  Ethics,    Phila. 

1 904,  XIV,  292-3 II.)  Discusses  history 
of  negro  under  slavery,  etc.  Argues  for 
public  and  industrial  schools.  Dr  D. 
believes  in  the  efficacy  of  "group  lead- 
ership." 

Ehrenreich  (P.)  Bericht  aber  den  14. 
Amerikanistenkongress  in  Stuttjiart.  (Z. 
f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904,  xxxvi,  862-66.) 
Brief  r6sum6  of  proceedings  and  papers 
read. 

Fehlinger  (H.)  Die  Neger  der  Verein- 
igten    Staaten.       (Globus,    Bmschwg., 

1905,  Lxxxvii,  62-64.)  Discusses  the 
figures  and  facts  of  the  census  of  1900  in 
relation  to  the  present  condition  and  fu- 
ture prospects  of  the  negro  in  the  U.  S. 
Two  marked  tendencies  exist,  a  migra- 
tion North  and  West,  and  a  massing  in 
ceitain  parts  of  the  South.     F.  does  00 


3  so 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7, 1905 


agree  with  the  idea  (  Ward  and  others) 
of  an  ultimate  amalgamation  of  whites 
and  blacks. 

Ftwkes  (J.  W.)  Porto  Rican  stone  col- 
lars and  tripointed  idols.  (Smithson. 
Misc.  Coll.,  Quart.,  Washington,  1904, 
II,  163-86,  8  pi.,  I  fg. )  Discusses  the 
forms  and  tjrpes  of  these  relics,  the  the- 
ories as  to  their  origin,  use,  etc. ;  based 
on  the  author's  investigations  in  Porto 
Rico,  1902-03,  and  comparisons  with 
other  material.  These  stone  "collars'* 
are  practically  confined  to  Porto  Rico, 
and  they  do  not  occur  in  the  shell  heaps. 
The  <*  tripointed  idol  **  is  equally  Porto 
Rican.  Dr  F.  considers  most  suggest- 
ive the  theory  of  J.  J.  Acosta  that 
<*  these  stone  collars  were  united  with 
the  tripointed  stones  to  form  a  serpent 
idol." 

Flom  (G.  T.)  The  Scandinavian  factor 
in  the  American  population.  (Iowa  J. 
Hist,  and  Pol.,  Iowa  City,  1905,  III, 
57-91,  map.)  Based  on  census  statis- 
tics of  1900.  Treats  of  causes  of  emi- 
gration from  Scandinavia,  growth  and 
distribution  of  Scandinavian  population 
in  the  U.  S.,  and  of  the  three  nationali- 
ties (Norwegians,  Swedes,  Danes)  in 
state,  city,  country.  About  70  per  cent, 
reside  in  the  northwestern  states. 

FOratemann  (E.)  Liegen  die  Tonalmatl 
der  Mayahandschriften  in  bestimmten 
Jahren?  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1 904, 
XXXVI,  659-67.)  Discusses  the  ques- 
tion whether  the  tonalamatl  fall  in  fixed 
years.  ( F.  uses  as  material  iSS /ona/a- 
mat/  in  the  Codex  Madridensis  and  60 
in  the  first  part  of  the  Codex  Dresdensis). 
Of  the  1888  in  the  Madrid  Codex  44  fall 
on  the  day  aAau  (17),  of  those  in  Dres- 
den Codex  13  on  the  same  day.  The 
settlement  of  the  fixation  of  the  tonala- 
matl and  the  order  of  succession  would 
be  a  real  progress  in  Mayan  epigraphy. 

Vergleichung  der  Dresdener   Maya- 

handschrift  mit  der  Madrider.  (Ibid., 
369-70.)  Notes  17  points  of  compari- 
son between  the  Dresden  and  Madrid 
Codices. 

Ganong  (W.  F.)  Upon  aboriginal  picto- 
graphs  from  New  Brunswick.  (Bull. 
Nat.  Hist.  Soc.  New  Brunswick,  1904, 
175-8,  I  pi.)  Only  four  real  or  sup- 
posed aboriginal  pictographs  so  far  re- 
ported from  N.  B.  Gesner's  pictures  on 
wood  (now  disappeared),  the  St.  George 
medallion  of  1863  ( probably  not  Indian ), 


the  Passamaqoody  in  the  N.  6.  Unirer- 
sity  Museum  ( markings  are  of  gladil 
origin,  not  Indian),  and  the  OroiDOCto 
sandstone  boulder  (of  natural  origm). 
The  *< pictograph  "  described  and 6^ircd 
by  Prof  G.  from  French  Lake  may  also 
have  received  its  markings  from  nature 
and  not  from  man. 

Gardiner  (H.  F.)  Ontario  onomatology 
and  British  biography.  (Ont.  Hist. 
Soc.,  Pap.  and  Proc.,  Toronto,  1905,  vi, 
37-47* )  Treats  of  *  *  old  country  stoiks 
suggested  by  Canadian  place-names." 

Gerend  (A.)  Potsherds fram Lake Mkhi- 
gan  shore  sites  in  Wisconsin.  (Wist 
Archeol.,  Madison,  1904,  iv,  1-19,  6 
pi. )  Treats  briefly  of  57  pottery  frag- 
ments from  Sand  Ridge,  Ozaukee,  New 
Amsterdam,  Sheboygan,  Two  Rivers, 
Brown  co.  The  pottery  is  usually  W>- 
ric-marked.  From  some  sites  were  ob- 
tained "a  small  number  of  miniatore 
rounded  vessels,  evidently  moulded  od 
the  thumb,"  and  probably  toys.  Tbe 
Sheboygan  pottery  varies  distinctly  in 
character  and  ornamentation  from  that 
of  the  other  sites. 

and  Brown  (C.  E.)  Additions  to 


the  list  of  Wisconsin  aboriginal  pottery. 
( Ibid. ,  1 9-2 1 . )  Brief  notes  on  speci- 
mens 18-24,  the  first  of  these  beiog 
**  the  largest  known  example  of  Wiscon- 
sin aboriginal  earthenware."  Na  » 
seems  to  represent  a  turtle. 

Goddard  (P.  E. )  Life  and  cultnre  of  the 
Hupa.  ( Univ.  of  Calif.  Publ,  Anwj. 
Arch.  &  Ethn.,  Berkeley,  1904,  l,  1-80. 
30  pi. ,  map. )  This  valuable  monograph 
adds  abundantly  to  and  corrects  thedati 
in  Powers  and  Ray- Mason.  Tbe  topics 
treated  are :  Environment,  history,  J^' 
lages,  houses,  dress,  food,  occupatioos 
of  men,  occupations  of  women,  measures, 
social  customs,  social  organiatwo. 
amusements,  war,  diseases  and  their 
cures,  burial  customs,  religion.  *°J 
Hupa  have  no  migration  myth  *^ 
believe  their  ancestors  originated  i«  "'^** 
They  have  **an  undercurrent  of  deep 

religious  feeling.'* 

Hupa  texts.     (Ibid.,  89-368.)  This 

valuable  collection,  "offered  prini»fl'y 
as  a  basis  for  the  study  of  the  Hop* 
language,'*  gives  Indian  text,  interline^ 
translation  and  free  English  version  ot 
14  myths  and  tales,  and  27  stori«  r^ 
lating  to  dances  and  feasts,  **medicioe 
formulae,  etc.     These  texU  contain  «»• 


C31AMBEKIJUN] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


portant  fblk-loric,  socio1<^ical  and  phil- 
olc^cal  material  about  a  people  of  the 
Athapascan  slock,  who  differ  notably  in 
many  poioli  from  their  congeners.  See 
Ameriian  Anthropologist,  1904,  N.  s., 
VI,  7ia-i6. 

Juiim(C.C.)  Theoriginor  "Napanee."    , 
(Ont.  Hist.  Soc.,  Pap.  &  Rec,  Toronto,    | 
1905,  VI,  47-9.)     Author  argaes   ihaC    | 
the  town.nome  Napante  ii  derived  not 
from  the  Mississaga  word    for  "flour" 
(nmu-pito-nay,   aa   often   written)   but 
Trom  the  earlier  river-name  Apanec  after- 
ward  applied  lo  the  settlement.     The   | 
diflerence  in  accent  does  not  exist,  how'    1 
ever,aSiVftilriH^f  rcallyrepreseDts  French 
lifaHn.. 

Kilror  (Margaret  C.)  Local  historical 
placeiin  Essex  county.  (Ibid.,  54-65.) 
Contains  some  notes  on  the  Jesuit  mis- 
sions among  the  Hurons.  | 

KolODi*  (Die)  San  Bernardino  in  Para-  , 
guay.  (Mitt.  d.  k.  k.  Geogr.  Ges.  in  ' 
Wien,  1905,  XLViTi,  107-9.)  Briefac- 
coont,  reproduced  from  the  Hamburgtr  I 
Nathruhltn,  of  the  flourishing  GennaD  . 
colonyofS.  Bernardino,  founded  10 years  j 
■go  on  Lake  Ipacarai  in  Paraguay.      The    ' 


has 


:    of 


several  races.     The  Germ 

majority,  but  the  jtft  politico  is  a  Para- 

Kiaeb«T  (A.  L.)  Basketry  designs  of  the 
Indians     of    northwestern     California. 

(Univ.of  Calif.  Publ.,  Amer.  Atch.  and 
Ethn.,  Berkeley,  1905,  it,  105-64,  7  pi., 
335  fgs, )  Treats  of  the  specially  de- 
Telopwl  canislral  art  of  the  linguistically 
distinct  but  culturally  related  Yurok, 
Karok,  and  Hnpa,  giving  the  results  of 
the  author's  extensive  investigations  in 
1900-01.  The  native  names  of  the 
designs  are  recorded,  —  and  "many  of 
the  words  are  not  names  of  animals  or 
objects,  but  geometrical  or  descriptive 
terms  not  translatable  by  the  Indians." 
Only  slight  tribal  differences  are  noted, — 
the  Karok,  r.f.,  favor  more  red,  vertical 
outlines,  etc.  The  Yurok  work  is  per- 
haps finest.  The  so-called  "artistic 
poverty  "  of  the  Porno  can  apply  only  to 
design  names.  Dr  K.  finds  that  there 
"  is  no  deep  or  inherent  relationship  be- 
tween the  designs  of  California  basketry 
and  their  names  "  ;  and  symbolism  is  non- 
existent. The  design  names  are  "free 
from  attempts  at  picture  writing  or  the 
expression  of  religions  ideas."  The 
designs  are  primarily  decorative. 


lAtdUUa  (  R.  E. )     Notes  on  the  physical 

characters  of  the  Araucanos.  { J.  Anlhr. 
Inst,,  Land.,  1904,  XXXiV,  170-80,  I 
p].,  3  fgs.)  Gives  measurements  of  31 
skulls  (6  female)  studied  by  author, 
compared  with  20  by  Guevara  and  7  by 
Medina.  The  average  index  isCueveta 
7S.9,  Medina  7S.5,  Latcham  male  79.6, 
female  80.  i  — the  race  being  sub-brachy- 
cephalic  (range  70-88).  Artificial  de- 
formation seems  unknown.  During  ex- 
ertion these  Indians  have  a  marked, 
disagreeable  ditn-odor.  Physically  they 
are  inferior  to  Europeans  and  half-breeds. 
Stature  (300  individuals)  averages  for 
males  1630-1635,  and  for  females  1430- 
1440  mm.  (great  difference  due  to  early 
marriage  and  hard  wotIc).  Large  fami- 
lies are  rare. 

Lebmaon-HitsclM  (  R.  )  Attpatagon- 
ische,  angeblich  syphilitische  Knochen 
aus  dem  Museum  lu  La  PlaU.  (Z.  f. 
Ethn.,  Berlin,  1904,  xxxvl,  854-63,  4 
fgs. )  Discusses  the  osseous  material  sug- 
gestive of  syphilitic  disease  in  the  L< 
Plata  Museum,  examined  by  L.-N.  and 
by  Stegmann  —  skulls,  long  bones,  etc. 
The  case  for  syphilis  is  not  proved,  ac- 
cording lo  the  author.  If  syphilis  Is  of 
American  origin  the  locus  is  Central 
America,  not  Patagonia. 

Sammlung   Boggiani   von    Indianer- 

typen  aus  dem  zentralen  SUdamerika. 
(Ibid.,  882-5.)  Brief  account  of  the 
Boggiani  collection  of  photographs  of 
Indian  types. 

tlaMSer  (A.)  Schadel  eines  SchokUng 
aus  Santa  Catharina,  Brasilien.  (Ibid., 
844-7,  5  fg'-)  Describes  a  male  skull 
(40-60  years)  of  dolichocephalic  type. 

SchSdel  eines  Bugre  aus  Blumenau, 

Santa  Catharina,  Brasilien.  (Ibid., 
848-51.)  Describes  a  skull  of  a  Bugre 
killed  in  1S53,  —  now  in  the  musenm  of 
the  society.  The  chief  measurements 
are  given  in  comparison  with  those  of  the 
Shoklfng  skull.  The  cephalic  indices 
are  respectively  77.3  and  73.3. 

Lnco  (L.  O.)  Chile  contemporaneo. 
(An.  de  la  Univ.,  Santiago,  1904,  cxiv, 
19-96,  157-338,  483-SS1-)  Contains 
brief  sections  on  the  Araocanian  Indians, 
the  Peruvian  (Incauc)  conquest,  the 
ethnic  elements  of  the  population,  the 
Spanish  conquest,  etc. 
HarquM  (A.)  Sobre  os  primitiioa  estab- 
elecimentos  na  Guyana  Ingleia.  (  Bol. 
Soc.  de  Geogr.  de  Lisboa,  1904,  358- 


352 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,7,  1905 


64. )  Notes,  translated  from  English,  on 
the  early  history  of  European  settlement 
in  Guiana,  the  El  Dorado  myth,  etc. 

Martili  (C.  W.)  The  Brst  Indian  land 
grant  in  Maiden.  (Ont.  Hist.  Soc., 
Pap.  and  Rec.,  Toronto,  1905,  vi, 
II-14.)  Describes  document  signed  in 
1783  by  the  Ottawa  chiefs  Kenitchenine, 
Necanigo,  Negig,  Rognash,  Chemenin- 
tona,  Assogawso,  and  Okilhavanan. 

Meerwarth  (H. )  Eine  zoologische  For- 
schungsreise  nach  dem  Rio  Acari  im 
Staate  Pari,  Brasilien.  (Globus,  Bm- 
schwg.,  1904,  Lxxxvi,  289-96,  309-15, 
12  fgs.,  map. )  Describes  journey  made 
in  1899,  with  notes  on  the  Turyu&ra 
Indians,  their  boats,  huts,  etc.  The 
Turuyuira  are  nominally  Catholic  and 
monogamous.  They  cultivate  manioc, 
cotton,  and  a  few  fruits.  The  women 
make  fine  hammocks.  Many  of  the 
names  of  animals  are  onomatopoeic. 
At  pages  294-5  is  given  a  brief  list 
of  personal  names  of  men  and  women. 
Shooting  fish  with  the  bow  and  arrow 
is  in  vogue  and  much  skill  shown. 

de  Mortillet  (A.)  Grottes  2l  peintures 
de  TAm^rique  du  Sud.  (R.  d.  V^z. 
d*Anthr.  de  Paris,  1905,  xv,  31-35,  9 
fgs. )  R^sum^s  the  article  of  Ambrosetti, 
published  in  1895,  on  Las  grutas  pin- 
tados y  ios  petroglyfos  de  la  provincia 
de  Salta^  treating  the  Gruta  pintada  and 
other  caves  with  paintings  in  the  Argen- 
tinean province  of  Salta  and  the  same 
author's  Cuatro pictografias  de  la  region 
Calchaqui  (1903). 

Ton  Nordenslddld  ( E.  Freih. )  Ueber  die 
Sitte  der  heutigen  Aymara  und  Quichua 
Indianer,  den  Toten  Beigaben  in  die 
Gr&ber  zu  legen.  (Globus,  Brnschwg., 
1905,  Lxxxvii,  27-28.)  Describes  the 
offering  of  gifts  to  the  dead  by  the  Ay- 
mara and  Quichua  (who  are  much  more 
conservative  than  the  Tacana  tribes)  of 
the  Bolivian- Peruvian  border,  and  re- 
tain, even  under  Christian  influence, 
many  old  customs  in  relation  to  burial, 
etc.  Precolumbian  graves  are  opened 
and  European  articles  put  in  sometimes. 
One  way  of  presenting  things  to  the  dead 
is  to  gather  together  the  articles  used  by 
him  and  bum  them  on  a  nearby  spot. 
The  Indians  excavate  chulpas  to  get  the 
skulls  to  **make  weather"  with. 

OliTier  (S.)  The  white  man's  burden  at 
home.  (Intern.  Quart.,  N.  Y.,  1905, 
XI,  6-23. )  Discusses  the  negro  question 
in  Jamaica.     The  negro  <  Ms  now  indis- 


putably the  equal  of  the  white  in  cate- 
gories in  which  loo  years  ago  he  would 
have  appeared  naturally  his  inferior.*' 
Negrophobia  (instinctive  race  prejudice) 
is  a  source  of  danger.  In  the  British 
West  Indies  <*  assaults  by  black  or  col- 
ored  men  on  white  women  or  children 
are  practically  unknown.'*  The  aathcMr 
was  long  in  the  colonial  service. 

Pelzer  (L.)  The  negro  and  slavery  in 
early  Iowa.  (Iowa  J.  Hist,  and  Pol., 
Iowa  City,  1904,  li,  471-84.)  Histor- 
ical sketch ;  not  anthropological. 

Thompson  (E.  H.)  Archeological  re- 
searches in  Yucatan.  (Mem.  Peab. 
Mus.,  Cambridge,  1904,  ill,  1-20,  9  pL, 
1 1  fgs. ).  Describes  caves  of  Oxkutzkab 
(results  of  exploration  same  as  previ- 
ously at  Loltun),  ruins  of  Xul  (some 
<*  monkey- like"  figures,  a  usual  type  of 
pottery),  Tzuli  (traces  of  paintings  on 
walls),  Chacmulttm  (five  buildings  still 
standing)  where  vandalism  has  been 
rife  —  kd'tuneSf  or  mills  for  grinding 
com,  are  made  from  the  casing  of  the 
walls.  Mr  T.  thinks  that  "these  great 
structures  afford  the  evidence  of  evolu- 
tion from  the  native  thatched  hut  similar 
to  the  nd  of  to-day."  The  colored 
paintings  are  quite  remarkable. 

Vignaud  (H. )  La  maison  d'Albe  et  les 
archives  colombiennes.  (J.  Soc.  d. 
Am^ric.  d.  Paris,  1904,  N.  s.,  i,  273- 
287. )  Discusses  the  fate  of  the  papers 
of  Columbus  in  the  possession  of  the 
house  of  Alba, —  three  collections  were 
published  by  the  Duchess  of  Berwick  and 
Alba  in  1891-1902.  Other  valuable 
documents  may  be  in  the  possession  of 
her  descendants.  In  an  appendix  V. 
considers  the  rdle  of  Ferdinand  Colum- 
bus in  the  production  of  the  documents 
attributed  to  Toscanelli. 

Virchow  ( H. )  Sechs  Photos  von  Wcst- 
grdnl&ndem.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin, 
1 904,  XXXVI,  862.)  Note  on  photos 
of  West  Greenland  mixed-bloods  from 
Ivigtut  —  young  women  prefer  to  have 
children  by  Europeans. 

Wake  ( C.  S. )  Legends  of  the  American 
Indians.  (Am.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1 904, 
XXVI,  23-28.)  Author  considers  the 
real  value  of  these  stories  to  lie  in  the 
fact  that,  *' making  due  allowance  for 
modem  changes,  they  will  probably  give 
us  a  tme  notion  of  the  present  native 
inhabitants  of  North  America,  possibly 
several   thousands  of  years  ago."     As 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


353 


showing  this  the  facts  as  to  domestic  and 
social  life,  food,  clothing,  social  rela- 
tions, activities,  government,  character, 
beliefs,  etc.,  are  briefly  considered.  Mr 
W.  thinks  '<  it  is  possible  that  the  In- 
dians of  North  America  and  the  buffalo 
appeared  on  this  continent  together." 

American  origins.    ( Ibid. ,  105-1 15.) 


Discusses  the  Mexican  <*  merchant's 
staff*,"  trade-deities,  astronomic  ideas, 
pillar-stones,  etc.,  use  of  copper,  Votan 
and  QuetzalcoatJ,  etc.,  as  proving  Asiatic 
origin  of  American  Indian  culture.  Mr 
Wake  concludes  that  "early  American 
culture  was  derived  from  the  Asiatic 
stock  to  which  the  early  Babylonians, 
who  probably  originated  in  central  Asia, 
belonged,  or  from  the  Phenicians,  who 
appear  to  have  been  intermediaries  be- 
tween Asia  and  the  Western  World." 

Nihancan,  the  white  man.     (Ibid., 


225-23 1 . )  Treats  of  Nihancan  ( creator, 
death-giver,  deceiver,  sensual  being, 
fool,  ingrate,  etc.),  a  chief  figure  in  the 
Arapaho  traditions  as  recorded  by  Dr 
Kroeber.  The  term  white  man  (Nihan- 
can has  now  this  meaning)  may  have 
reference  to  the  complexion  of  the  new- 


comers. In  certain  elements  of  Arapaho 
mythology  Mr  W.  sees  evidence  of  **  a 
culture  area  which  included  the  greater 
part  of  Asia  as  well  as  North  America." 

Ward  (D.  J.  H.)  The  problem  of  the 
mounds.  (Iowa  J.  Hist,  and  Pol.,  Iowa 
City,  1905,  III,  20-40.)  Discusses  hb- 
tory  of  problem  and  investigation,  kinds 
of  prehistoric  works  ( earthworks,  refuse 
heaps,  house  sites,  hut  rings,  stone  works 
—  cairns,  enclosures,  box-shaped  graves, 
cliff  houses — excavations,  canals  and 
ditches,  pits,  garden  beds,  fire-hearths, 
trails,  mines),  material  of  the  mounds, 
current  investigations  elsewhere,  num- 
ber, size  and  contents  of  mounds  (Illi- 
nois has  5,000  within  a  radius  of  50 
miles  of  the  mouth  of  the  Illinois  river)  ; 
When  did  the  mound-builders  live? 
what  the  mounds  intimate,  need  of  legis- 
lative action,  methods  of  investigation. 
Dr  W.  argues  that  **  if  the  mounds 
were  built  by  Indians,  that  is,  by  the 
ancestors  of  the  present  existing  tribes, 
they  must  have  degenerated  before  the 
Europeans  arrived."  And  he  wonders 
<*if  the  cave  men  are  young  as  com- 
pared with  the  mound  builder  in 
America." 


ANTHROPOLOGIC   MISCELLANEA 

The  American  Anthropological  Association  will  meet  in  San  Fran- 
cisco, California^  August  29th  to  3isty  1905. 

Members  of  the  Association  and  all  others  interested  in  anthropology 
are  cordially  invited  to  be  present  at  this  meeting.  Papers  relating  to 
ethnology,  archeology,  prehistoric  man,  physical  anthropology,  linguis- 
tics, and  general  anthropology  will  be  read.  Members  and  prospective 
members  are  invited  to  present  titles  of  communications. 

The  meeting  will  be  followed  by  an  excursion  of  the  Association  to 
the  Lewis  and  Clark  Centennial  Exposition  at  Portland.  Arrangements 
will  be  made  for  the  members  of  the  Association  while  in  San  Francisco 
to  visit  the  great  educational  institutions  of  the  Pacific  coast,  the  Uni- 
versity of  California  and  Leland  Stanford  Junior  University,  and  for 
excursions  to  other  points  of  interest.  The  Museum  of  the  Department 
of  Anthropology  of  the  University  of  California  at  the  Affiliated  Colleges 
in  San  Francisco,  which  has  recently  been  installed  but  which  is  not  yet 
open  to  the  public,  will  be  the  headquarters  of  the  Association  and  will 
be  made  fully  accessible  to  those  in  attendance. 

This  will  be  the  first  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Asso- 
ciation to  be  held  west  of  the  Missouri  river,  and  the  first  meeting  de- 
voted to  anthropology,  archeology,  or  ethnology  ever  held  on  the  Pacific 
coast  by  any  body  of  national  organization.  It  is  unlikely  that  another 
anthropological  meeting  of  similar  scope  can  be  held  on  the  western  side 
of  the  continent  for  a  number  of  years  to  come,  so  that  by  the  selection  of 
San  Francisco  as  the  place  of  meeting  an  unusual  opportunity  is  presented 
to  anthropologists  and  to  those  interested  in  anthropology  not  only  on 
the  Pacific  coast  of  America  but  in  all  countries  adjacent  to  the  Pacific 
ocean.  The  special  rates  given  by  the  transcontinental  railroads  to 
Portland  via  San  Francisco  afford  an  exceptional  opportunity  for  the 
archeologists  and  ethnologists  of  the  eastern  parts  of  the  country  to 
visit  the  Pacific  coast.  From  points  east  of  Chicago,  St  Ix)uis,  and 
New  Orleans,  the  railroad  rate  will  be  a  little  more  than  one  fare  for  the 
round  trip.  Tickets  will  be  sold  on  July  5,  6,  7,  9,  10,  11,  12,  24,  25, 
26,  August  5  to  16  inclusive  and  28,  29,  30,  31,  and  will  have  a  final 
return  limit  of  90  days,  but  in  no  case  later  than  November  30  of  this 
year.     These  tickets  will  be  good  going  and  returning  via  same  route  east 

354 


ANTHROPOL  OGIC  MISCELLANEA  355 

of  the  above-named  cities ;  but  west  of  them,  tickets  will  be  good  going 
via  any  regular  direct  route,  and  returning  via  same  or  any  other  regular 
direct  route  (the  Canadian  Pacific  being  included  in  choice  of  routes). 
Stop-over  privileges  are  allowed  in  the  East  at  Philadelphia,  Baltimore, 
Washington,  and  Niagara  Falls ;  in  the  West,  at  Yellowstone  Park,  at 
Cheyenne,  Denver,  Colorado  Springs,  and  Pueblo,  and  any  point  west 
thereof.  For  rates  from  points  west  of  the  Mississippi,  and  for  further 
particulars,  members  are  requested  to  communicate  with  their  nearest 
station  agent. 

All  communications  relating  to  the  meeting,  including  titles  of  papers 
and  applications  for  membership,  and  in  regard  to  hotels,  should  be  ad- 
dressed to  Dr  A.  L.  Kroeber,  Affiliated  Colleges,  San  Francisco. 

The  Association  committee  on  program  and  arrangements  are : 
President  F.  W.  Putnam,  chairman ;  A.  L.  Kroeber,  secretary ;  George 
Grant  MacCurdy,  Franz  Boas,  E.  J.  Molera,  George  H.  Pepper,  F.  W. 
Hodge. 

Several  amendments  to  the  Constitution  of  the  Association,  proposed 
and  approved  at  the  Philadelphia  session  of  1904,  are  to  be  voted 
on  at  the  meeting.     These  are  as  follows : 

Article  V,  Section  i,  second  and  third  lines  :  Change  a  number  of 
councilors  to  be  determined  annually  to  twenty-four  councilors. 

Section  2,  third  and  fourth  lines  :  Change  a  number  of  councilors  to 
be  determined  by  the  council  to  six  councilors. 

Section  3  :  Add  to  the  end  of  the  section  :  Five  shall  constitute  a 
quorum. 

Section  7  :  Strike  out  at  the  end  of  the  section :  of  whom  not  more 
than  one  shall  be  a  member  of  the  council, 

AR'ncLE  VII,  Section  i  :  Strike  oiit  entirely. 

Section  2  :  Omit  from  first  sentence  :  whose  chairmen  shall  be  mem- 
bers of  the  executive  committee. 

Fifteenth  International  Congress  of  Americanists.  —  Pursuant  to 
the  action  taken  at  the  Fourteenth  International  Congress  of  American- 
ists, held  at  Stuttgart  in  August,  1904,  the  Committee  of  Organization 
announce  that  the  sessions  of  the  Fifteenth  Congress  will  be  held  at  Que- 
bec, Canada,  from  Monday,  September  lo,  to  Saturday,  September  15, 
1906.  The  Committee  urge  that  all  persons  interested  in  the  work  of 
the  Congress  (the  scope  of  which  includes  everything  pertaining  to  the 
history,  ethnology,  and  archeology  of  the  New  World)  become  affiliated 
as  members  or  associates  of  the  Fifteenth  Session  at  the  earliest  practicable 


356  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

date,  and  that  titles  of  papers  to  be  presented  in  person  or  otherwise  be 
sent  to  the  General  Secretary  as  soon  as  possible. 

The  fee  for  Members  is  three  dollars  ($3.00).  Members  have  the 
privilege  of  voting,  of  taking  part  in  the  deliberations  of  the  Congress, 
and  of  receiving  its  publications. 

The  fee  for  Associates  is  one  dollar  ($1.00).  Associates  may  attend 
the  meetings,  but  they  do  not  have  the  right  of  participating  in  the  discus- 
sions nor  of  receiving  the  publications  gratuitously. 

The  sessions  of  the  Congress  will  be  held  in  the  halls  of  the  majestic 
Parliament  Buildings,  and  ample  facilities  will  be  provided  should  it  be 
deemed  necessary  to  hold  sectional  meetings.  Plans  are  already  in  prep- 
aration for  excursions  following  the  meetings,  and  there  is  no  doubt  that, 
with  such  a  wealth  of  historical  association  as  Quebec  p>ossesses,  those 
who  attend  the  Congress  will  derive  great  pleasure  and  profit. 

The  Committee  of  Organization  consists  of  the  following :  President : 
Dr  Robert  Bell,  Director  of  the  Geological  Survey  of  Canada,  Ottawa. 
Vice-president:  Mgr  J.-C.  K.  Laflamme,  Dean  of  the  Faculty  of  Arts, 
Laval  University,  Quebec ;  The  Honorable  R.  A.  Pine,  Minister  of  Edu- 
cation for  Ontario ;  Dr  David  Boyle,  of  the  Department  of  Education, 
Toronto.  General  Secretary :  Dr  N.  E.  Dionne,  Librarian  of  the  Legis- 
lative Assembly,  Quebec.  Treasurer :  M  Alp.  Gagnon,  of  the  E^epart- 
ment  of  Public  Works,  Quebec. 

The  Patron  of  the  Congress  is  His  Excellency  Lord  Grey,  G.  C.  M. 
G.,  Governor  General  of  Canada  ;  the  Honorary  President  is  His  Honor 
Sir  L.  -A.  Jette,  Lieutenant-Governor  of  Quebec. 

Congr^s  Pr^historique  de  France.  —  The  first  session  of  the  Congr^s 
Pr^historique  de  France,  under  the  presidency  of  M.  femile  Riviere,  as- 
sistant director  of  the  laboratory  of  the  College  de  France,  will  be  held 
at  P^rigueux  (Dordogne),  from  September  26  to  October  i,  inclusive. 
The  first  three  days  of  the  session  will  be  devoted  to  the  presentation 
of  communications  and  scientific  discussion,  and  to  visits  to  museums, 
monuments,  etc.  ;  on  the  other  three  days  excursions  will  be  made  to 
archeological  sites,  notably  Eyzies,  Madaleine,  Liveyre,  and  Moustier. 
There  are  two  classes  of  members  —  original  and  associate.  The  former, 
whose  dues  are  twelve  francs,  are  entitled  to  all  the  privileges  of  the  Con- 
gress and  will  receive  the  reports ;  the  associate  members  subscribe  six 
francs  and  participate  only  in  the  receptions,  visits,  and  excursions. 
Americans  interested  in  the  subject  are  invited  to  become  original  mem- 
bers. The  secretary  is  M.  Marcel  Baudouin,  rue  Linne,  21,  Paris;  the 
treasurer,  M.  Giraux,  avenue  Victor-Hugo,  9  bis,  a  Saint-Mand^  (Seine), 
France. 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  357 

The  Congrds  International  d'Ezpansion  £conomique  Mondiale  will 
be  held  at  Mons,  Belgium,  toward  the  close  of  September,  under  the 
patronage  of  His  Majesty  the  King  of  Belgium.  Among  the  questions 
to  come  before  the  Congress  that  will  prove  of  interest  to  anthropologists 
is  the  following,  which  forms  a  section  of  an  announcement  sent  out  by 
Dr  Cyr  van  Everbergh,  directeur  g6n6ral  de  Tenseignement  superieur  (8, 
rue  de  la  Loi,  Brussels)  : 

**  What  are,  in  new  countries  ^  the  best  methods  of  making  ethnologic  and 
sociologic  observations  with  the  view  of  obtaining  scientific  knowledge  of  the 
social  status  and  of  the  manners  and  customs  of  the  natives^  and  of  raising 
them  to  a  higher  civilization  ? ' ' 

It  is  hoped  that  our  American  anthrop>ologists  whose  lines  of  research 
have  been  such  as  to  enable  them  to  render  valuable  information  on  this 
question,  so  far  as  it  pertains  to  the  American  Indians  and  to  the  aborig- 
ines of  some  of  our  insular  possessions,  may  give  the  Congress  the  benefit 
of  their  views. 

The  Jews  of  Mzab.  —  In  the  February  number  of  the  Zeitschrift  fur 
Demographic  und  Statistik  der  Juden,  which  is  issued  by  the  Bureau  fiir 
die  Statistik  der  Juden  under  the  editorship  of  Dr  Arthur  Ruppin  in 
Berlin,  is  found  an  interesting  notice  on  the  Jews  of  Mzab,  of  whom  the 
French  anthropologist,  M.  Huguet,  made  during  1897-99  a  study  and 
gave  an  account  in  the  Bulletins  et  M6moires  de  la  Socidtd  d*  Anthro- 
pologie  de  Paris  (V  serie,  tome  in,  1902). 

Mzab  is  an  oasis,  situated  in  southern  Algiers,  about  latitude  33°  N., 
longitude  4°  E. ,  on  the  edge  of  the  Sahara.  It  is  inhabited  by  a  Berber 
tribe  of  about  30,000  souls  and  since  1850  has  been  under  French  suprem- 
acy. By  the  census  of  1896  there  were  841  Jews  living  in  Ghardaia, 
the  capital  of  the  oasis,  and  34  in  the  city  of  Guerrara.  Tradition  places 
the  immigration  of  Jews  to  the  oasis  in  the  14th  century.  The  Jews  live 
in  separate  streets,  but  are  not  distinguished  in  their  attire  from  the 
natives,  excepting  for  the  frontlocks  (^peoth).  The  women  are  pretty, 
strong,  and  marked  by  a  certain  grace,  while  the  men  are  of  a  less  pre- 
possessing type. 

They  marry  very  early ;  not  infrequently  children  are  betrothed  at 
the  age  of  4  to  5  years  and  married  when  they  reach  13  or  14  years. 
Owing,  no  doubt,  largely  to  these  premature  marriages,  the  mortality 
among  children  is  enormous.  Some  marriages  are  blessed  with  15  to  25 
children,  but  only  a  third  or  a  fourth  of  them  survive  to  maturity. 

Of  the  ceremonies  attending  a  wedding  it  may  be  mentioned  that  on 
the  wedding  day  the  head  of  the  bride  is  wrapped  in  a  cloth  into  the 


358  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

folds  of  which  candles  are  inserted  and  lighted.  She  is  then  carried,  with 
bare  feet  (girls  are  not  allowed  to  wear  foot-gear  before  marriage),  upon 
the  skin  of  a  wild  sheep  {tnoufton)  to  the  house  of  the  bridegroom.  The 
marriage  is  consummated  at  once,  while  the  guests  are  feasting  in  the 
house,  and  if  the  bride  is  not  found  chaste  she  may  be  divorced.  The 
usual  amount  of  dowry  set  by  the  groom  on  the  bride  is  from  25  to  500 
francs  ($5  to  jioo).  Divorce  is  easily  and  frequently  obtained.  It  is 
not  rare  that  men  marry  four  or  five  times.  All  this,  as  also  the  fact  that 
the  women  are  rarely  possessed  even  of  the  most  elementary  education, 
in  contrast  to  the  zeal  for  knowledge  and  learning  of  the  men,  would 
point  to  a  low  condition  of  women  among  these  Jews. 

When  a  woman  approaches  childbirth  she  is  transferred  from  the 
house  of  the  husband  to  that  of  her  parents,  where  a  hole  is  dug  in  a 
comer  and  filled  with  hot  ashes,  over  which  a  sheet  is  spread.  On  this 
cinereal  couch  the  woman  is  placed  to  await  the  birth,  the  ashes  being 
renewed  as  oflen  as  they  grow  cold.  Usually  the  mother  is  able  after  one 
week  to  return  to  her  household  duties.  The  infant  is  nourished  by  the 
mother  from  two  to  two  and  a  half  years.  In  case  of  twins  of  different 
sex  being  bom,  the  boy  is  nourished  by  the  mother,  while  the  girl  is 
reared  on  goat  milk. 

Of  religious  observances  peculiar  to  the  Jews  of  Mzab  it  should  be 
mentioned  that,  besides  the  rite  of  bar-mitzwah  which,  as  elsewhere,  takes 
place  at  the  close  of  the  thirteenth  year  of  a  boy,  at  the  age  of  three  years 
he  is  "introduced  into  religion**  —  whatever  that  may  mean  —  by  a 
special  ceremony,  called  el  Kestaby  and  is  then  an  ouziry  while  at  the  age 
of  four  years  another  ceremony  raises  him  to  the  dignity  of  a  soltan.  The 
Feast  of  Weeks  {Shabuotk)  is  celebrated  by  them  three  days  instead  of 
two :  the  third  in  commemoration  of  the  **  conquest  of  Ghardaia  by  the 
Jews.'*  Otherwise  they  do  not  differ  in  their  beliefs  and  rituals  from 
other  Jews  in  the  East.  I.  M.  Casanowicz. 

Columbia  University  Courses  in  Anthropology.  —  The  following 
courses  in  Anthropology  for  1905-06  have  been  announced  by  Columbia 
University.  Those  numbered  from  101-200  inclusive  are  for  graduates 
and  specially  prepared  undergraduates.  Courses  above  200  are  for  grad- 
uate students.  All  the  courses  except  107-108  are  open  to  women  ;  and 
all  the  courses  are  open  to  auditors,  who  must  secure  the  written  consent 
of  the  instructor. 

I  o  I  - 1 02  —  Anthropology,  general  introductory  course  —  Lectures, 
essays,  and  discussions.  Professor  Livingston  Farrand.  Two  hours 
weekly.    In  the  first  half  of  this  course  a  description  of  human  races  and  of 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  359 

their  distribution  is  given.  The  physical  characters  of  the  earliest  human 
remains  and  their  relations  to  present  forms  are  discussed,  and  the  t3rpes 
of  languages  and  their  geographical  distribution  are  described.  In  the 
second  half  of  the  year  there  is  a  discussion  of  the  mental  development 
of  primitive  man,  which  is  followed  by  a  description  of  t)rpes  of  primitive 
culture,  and  an  inquiry  into  the  origin  and  development  of  particular 
phases  of  culture.     Open  to  Juniors. 

103-104  —  Prehistoric  archeology  —  Lectures,  essays,  and  discussions. 
Professor  Marshall  H.  Saville  and  Dr  Berkey.  Two  hours  weekly.  In 
the  first  part  of  this  course  the  geological  basis  of  prehistoric  arche- 
ology is  discussed,  while  in  the  second  part  the  questions  of  prehis- 
toric archeology  are  taken  up  in  detail.  The  collections  of  the  Geo- 
logical Department  and  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History  are 
utilized  for  illustrating  this  course.     Open  to  Juniors. 

105-106  —  General  ethnography  —  Lectures,  essays,  and  discussions. 
Dr  Clark  Wissler.  Two  hours  weekly.  In  this  course  the  ethnology  of 
primitive  tribes  is  described,  in  geographical  order,  a  summary  of  the  cul- 
tural types  of  America,  Asia,  Australia,  the  Pacific  islands,  and  of  Africa 
being  given.  The  collections  in  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  His- 
tory will  be  utilized  for  illustrating  this  course.     Open  to  Juniors. 

107-108  —  Ethnology  —  Primitive  culture  —  Lectiu-es,  papers,  and 
discussions.  Professor  Farrand.  Two  hours  weekly.  This  course  con- 
sists of  a  more  detailed  treatment  of  the  questions  involved  in  primitive 
culture,  such  as  the  origin  and  development  of  mythology,  morality  and 
religion,  education,  art,  social  customs,  etc.  Students  are  expected  to 
have  taken  Anthropology  101-102  or  105-106,  or  to  give  satisfactory 
evidence  of  previous  work  before  being  admitted  to  this  course. 

109-110  —  Ethnography  of  America  and  Siberia — Lectures  and  dis- 
cussions. Professor  Franz  Boas.  Two  hours  weekly.  This  course  con- 
sists of  a  detailed  description  of  the  questions  involved  in  the  distribution 
of  tribes,  types  languages,  and  customs  of  America  and  Siberia.  The 
collections  in  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History  will  be  utilized 
for  illustrating  this  course.  Prerequisite,  101-102  or  105-106,  or  equiv- 
alent reading. 

[i  1 1 -1 1 2  —  Ethnography  of  Africa,  Australia,  and  the  islands  of  the 
Pacific  ocean.     Dr  Wissler.     Not  given  in  ipoj-od.'] 

113-114  —  Ethnography  of  China  —  Language,  literature,  govern- 
ment, and  social  customs  of  China.     Professor  Hirth. 

115-116  —  Mexican  archeology  —  Lectures,  essays,  and  discussions. 
Professor  Saville.     In  this  course  the  archeology  of  Mexico  and  the  ad- 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  7—34 


360  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

joining  regions  to  the  south  will  be  discussed.  The  collections  in  the 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History  will  be  utilized  for  illustrating 
this  course.  Prerequisite,  1 01 -102,  103-104,  or  105-106,  or  equivalent 
reading. 

1 1 7- 1 1 8  —  American  languages  —  Lectures  and  discussions.  Profes- 
sor Boas.  Two  hours  weekly.  Selected  languages  representing  different 
types  will  be  discussed.  Indian  myths  will  be  translated  in  connection 
with  grammatical  interpretation.  The  course  extends  over  two  years, 
allowing  time  for  the  consideration  of  representative  types  of  North 
American  languages. 

1 19-120  —  Morphology  with  special  reference  to  physical  anthropol- 
ogy.    Professor  Huntington. 

121 — The  statistical  study  of  variation,  introductory  course  —  Lec- 
tures, essays,  and  discussions.  Dr  Wissler.  Two  hours  weekly  and  three 
hours'  laboratory  work ;  first  half  year.  This  course  is  intended  as  an 
introduction  to  the  study  of  variation  for  students  of  anthropology, 
psychology,  and  biology.  The  characteristic  features  of  variability  and 
the  methods  of  treatment  are  discussed.     This  course  is  open  to  Seniors. 

122  —  The  statistical  study  of  variation,  advanced  course  —  Lectures, 
essays,  discussions,  and  laboratory  work.  Professor  Boas  and  Dr  Wissler. 
Two  hours  weekly  and  three  hours'  laboratory  work ;  second  half-year. 
Continuation  of  course  121  for  students  who  wish  to  prepare  for  research 
work  in  the  statistical  study  of  variation. 

123  — The  statistical  treatment  of  anatomical  and  physiological  data. 
Professor  Boas.  Two  hours  weekly  ;  first  half-year.  This  course  is  in- 
tended primarily  for  medical  students.  The  methods  of  treating  vital 
statistics  and  anatomical,  physiological,  and  pathological  statistics  form 
the  main  subject  of  the  course. 

201-202  —  Seminar  in  ethnology,  two  hours  weekly.  Professor  Boas. 
Prerequisite,  105-106  and  107-108,  or  equivalent  reading. 

203-204  —  Research  work  in  anthropology.  Professors  Boas,  Far- 
rand,  and  Saville.     Daily. 

Head  Deformation  Among  the  Klamath.  —  The  Klamath  Indians, 
together  with  a  number  of  other  tribes  of  the  Columbia  river  region,  still 
practise  artificial  head  deformation  of  the  variety  kno^vn  as  **  flat  head," 
consisting  of  the  flattening  of  the  frontal  region  of  the  infant  while  on  the 
cradle-board.  The  desired  effect  is  produced  by  applying  to  the  forehead 
of  the  child  continuous  pressure  by  means  of  a  pad,  or  of  a  small  padded 
plank.     Rev.  J.  Kirk,  an  educated  Klamath,  who  himself  exhibited  this 


k 


■  n«  cndic  (Cat.  no.  6s.'jaie,  Am 
AND   CORA  CRADLE 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  36 1 

variety  of  head  deformation,  recently  visited  the  National  Museum,  where 
he  was  measured  and  photographed.  From  him  it  was  learned  that  the 
Klamath  regard  a  long  head  /'.  e.y  anon-deformed  head,  with  derision. 
They  say  it  is  slave-like,  that  their  slaves  had  such,  and  that  a  man  with 
such  a  head  is  not  fit  to  be  a  great  man  in  the  tribe.  Deformed  heads  are 
called  ''good  heads."  The  flattening,  which  is  practised  to  this  day,  is 
produced  chiefly  by  means  of  a  bag  of  seeds,  usually  of  the  water-lily,  tied 
over  the  forehead  of  the  infant,  the  ends  of  the  bandage  that  hold  the 
bag  in  place  being  fastened  to  the  baby-board.  Water-lily  seeds  are 
among  the  principal  native  foods  of  the  tribe.  Sometimes  other  seeds 
are  used,  but  they  are  always  of  some  edible  variety.  So  far  as  known, 
the  process  of  deforming  the  head  of  the  child  has  no  deleterious  effect. 

A.  Hrdlicka. 

Maricopa  Weaving.  —  While  visiting  the  Maricopa  Indians  of 
southern  Arizona  in  1902,  and  again  in  1905,  the  writer  was  fortunate 
enough  to  see  and  collect  two  rare  examples  of  Maricopa  native  weaving. 
These  specimens,  which  now  form  part  of  the  Hyde  collection  in  the 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  New  York,  consist  of  long,  narrow 
bands  that  were  used  to  fasten  the  baby  on  its  cradle-board.  They  are 
made  from  cotton  or  wool  yam  purchased  from  the  dealers,  are  mostly 
white,  grayish,  bluish,  or  red  in  color,  and  are  woven  in  simple  geometric 
patterns.  Both  the  women  and  the  men  formerly  wove  these  bands, 
but  the  practice  is  now  nearly  abandoned.  According  to  information  ob- 
tained from  an  old  Maricopa,  about  forty  years  ago  the  people  of  his 
tribe  still  planted  native  cotton,  with  which  the  men  wove  large  decorated 
blankets.  The  informant  made  several  of  these  himself  in  his  youth,  but  he 
is  now  the  only  survivor  of  those  acquainted  with  the  art.  The  speci- 
mens obtained  are  illustrated  in  plate  xxiv,  i.  A.  Hrdlicka. 

A  Cora  Cradle.  —  Among  the  Cora  tribe  of  the  territory  of  Tepic, 
Mexico,  an  interesting  form  of  swinging  cradle  is  used.  This  region  is 
infested  with  scorpions,  the  sting  of  which  is  dangerous  to  infants,  and 
on  this  account  the  Cora  make  a  shallow  net  of  vegetal  fiber  which  is 
stretched  on  an  oval  frame  and  suspended,  usually  by  four  cords,  from  a 
reata  of  ixtle,  or  maguey  fiber,  fastened  lo  a  rafter  of  the  dwelling. 

The  accompanying  illustration  (plate  xxiv,  2)  shows  one  of  these 
cradles,  collected  by  the  writer  for  the  Hyde  Expedition  in  1902,  and  now 
in  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  New  York.  Several  deer 
hoofs,  that  serve  as  rattles,  dangle  from  the  apex  of  the  cords  that  sustain 
the  cradle. 


j63  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Similar  nets,  but  more  rounded  and  smaller,  suspended  from  pegs  in 
the  walls  or  from  the  roof,  are  used  by  the  Cora  as  convenient  receptacles 
for  various  articles,  particularly  food.  A.  Hrdlicra. 

Jacob  Vradenberg  Broweti  well  known  through  his  researches  in 
early  history  and  archeology,  especially  of  Minnesota  and  Kansas,  died  at 
St  Cloud,  Minnesota,  June  i .  Mr  Brower  was  bom  on  a  farm  at  York, 
Michigan,  January  21,  1844,  moving  to  Long  Prairie,  Todd  county, 
Minnesota,  when  only  thirteen  years  of  age.  He  received  a  common 
school  education,  enlisted  in  the  volunteer  cavalry  in  1862,  and  entered 
the  United  States  volunteer  navy  two  years  later.  He  was  honored  with 
several  federal  and  state  appointments,  among  the  latter  that  of  Itasca 
State  Park  Commissioner  from  1891  to  1895.  For  this  office  Mr 
Brower  was  especially  well  fitted  by  reason  of  an  intimate  knowledge  of  the 
country  gained  by  his  exploration,  in  1889,  ^^  ^^^  sources  of  the  Missis- 
sippi. While  engaged  in  his  Itasca  work,  Mr  Brower,  in  1894-95,  dis- 
covered an  ancient  village  site  and  several  mounds  at  the  lake.  In  1896 
he  traced  the  source  of  Missouri  river,  and  in  1897-98  conducted 
archeological  explorations  in  central  and  eastern  Kansas  that  resulted  in 
the  important  rediscovery  of  the  ancient  province  of  Quivira,  visited  by 
Francisco  Vasquez  Coronado  in  154 1.  In  1900  he  located  1,125  abori- 
ginal mounds  at  Mille  Lac,  Minnesota,  and  was  engaged  in  gathering 
material  in  the  western  part  of  the  state,  with  the  view  of  preparing  a 
volume  on  the  early  history  of  the  Sioux  in  Minnesota,  when  stricken 
with  paralysis  on  May  26,  near  Fergus  Falls.  Mr  Brower  was  an  inde- 
fatigable worker,  as  his  voluminous  productions  attest;  and  he  was 
undaunted  in  the  face  of  what  to  most  men  would  prove  a  source  of  dis- 
couragement, as  a  serious  fire  which  utterly  destroyed  the  results  of  years 
of  research  but  which  spurred  him  to  renewed  vigor  would  indicate.  In 
later  years  he  became  a  firm  believer  in  the  immediate  publication  of 
results,  so  that  from  1893  scarcely  a  year  passed  without  the  production 
of  a  beautiful  volume,  issued  chiefly  at  the  expense  of  his  private  means. 
He  was  for  years  chairman  of  the  museum  committee  of  the  Minnesota 
Historical  Society,  and  during  a  decade  contributed  to  its  collections 
more  than  100,000  specimens.  The  most  important  of  his  published 
writings  are:  The  Mississippi  River  and  its  Source  (1893),  Prehistoric 
Man  at  the  Headwaters  of  the  Mississippi  River  (1895),  The  Missouri 
River  and  its  Utmost  Source  (1896),  Quivira  (1898),  Harahey  (1899), 
Mille  Lac  (1900),  Kathio  (1901),  Minnesota:  Discovery  and  its  Area 
—  1541-1665  (1903),  Kansas  :  Monumental  Perpetuation  of  its  Earliest 
History,  1541-1896  (1903),  Itasca  State  Park,  an  Illustrated  History 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  363 

(1905).     Mr  Brower  was  one  of  the  organizers  of  the  Quiviia  Historical 
Society  and  had  been  its  president  from  the  beginning. 

Minnesota  Historical  Society.  —  The  general  interest  in  American 
archeology,  especially  among  our  historical  societies,  is  nowhere  better 
exemplified  than  at  St  Paul,  where  the  Minnesota  Historical  Society, 
established  in  1849,  in  the  year  that  Minnesota  became  a  territory,  has 
for  some  years  been  accumulating  a  collection  of  archeological  objects. 
This  society,  whose  excellent  work  is  wisely  appreciated  by  the  State  at 
large,  which  annually  appropriates  j  15,000  toward  its  expenses,  main- 
tains a  museum,  an  important  part  of  which  is  its  department  of  arche- 
ology, containing  a  collection  the  extent  of  which  is  probably  not  known 
by  many  archeologists  beyond  the  limits  of  the  State.  The  late  J.  V. 
Brower,  chairman  of  the  Museum  Committee  of  the  Society,  has  alone 
added  to  its  collections  more  than  100,000  specimens  of  stone  imple- 
ments and  weapons,  flakes  from  their  manufacture,  bone  and  copper 
ornaments,  pottery,  etc. ,  partly  from  the  Indians  and  partly  from  their 
ancient  mounds  throughout  Minnesota  and  a  large  part  of  the  territory 
westward  to  the  Rocky  mountains  and  southward  to  Kansas.  The  an- 
nouncement has  recently  been  made  by  Mr  Warren  Upham,  secretary 
and  librarian  of  the  society,  that  Rev.  Edward  C.  Mitchell,  of  St  Paul,  has 
expressed  his  intention  of  depositing  in  the  museum  the  greater  part  of  his 
collection,  including  many  thousands  of  specimens  of  aboriginal  imple- 
ments, weapons,  ornaments,  and  pottery.  Within  the  last  few  months 
the  society  has  moved  into  new  quarters  that  are  provided  for  it  in 
the  splendid  capitol  now  practically  completed,  where  it  will  suitably 
display  its  archeological  collections  and  arrange  its  library  as  pecuniary 
means  are  afforded.  The  importance  of  the  work  that  the  Minnesota 
Historical  Society  is  doing  should  be  fully  encouraged  by  granting  the 
funds  necessary  for  enabling  it  to  become  more  and  more  a  part  of  the 
educational  system  of  the  state. 

M.  JuLiEN  GiRARD  DE  RiALLE,  minister  plenipotentiary  from  France 
to  Chile,  died  recently  at  Santander,  Chile,  aged  sixty-four  years.  M. 
Rialle  was  well  known  in  France  for  his  anthropologic  studies.  He  was 
at  one  time  charged  with  a  mission  to  Syria ;  in  1870  he  was  sent  to 
Germany,  and  after  serving  as  prefect  of  the  Basses- Alpes  in  1871-73, 
entered  the  ministry  of  foreign  affairs  as  sub-director  of  archives  in  1880 
and  as  director  in  1882. 

^MiLE  VouGA,  known  through  his  excavations  in  the  bed  of  the 
Zihl  that  resulted  in  the  discovery  of  four  pile-dwellings  connected  with 


364  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

the  banks  by  a  bridge,  died  at  Champ  Bougin,  near  Neufchitel,  Switzer- 
land, September  11,  1904,  aged  67  years.  The  results  of  Vouga's  inter- 
esting researches  are  described  in  his  work   Les  Ileivites  a  la  Tint. 

In  recognition  of  his  services  to  science  generally  and  to  the  cause 
of  ethnology  in  particular,  the  Emperor  of  Russia  has  appointed  Mr  Morris 
K.  Jesup,  president  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History  and 
patron  of  the  Jesup  North  Pacific  Expedition,  a  Knight  of  the  Imperial 
Order  of  St  Stanislaus  of  the  first  class. 

Adrien  Arcelin,  who  recently  died  at  Saint-Sorlin,  near  Macon, 
France,  in  his  sixty-sixth  year,  was  well  known  to  European  archeologists 
through  his  discovery  and  exploration  of  the  beds  of  Solutr^  and  the  dis- 
covery in  1869  of  the  first  fiint  chips  known  in  Egypt,  a  find  that  was  at 
first  discredited  by  Egyptologists. 

ANDRfe  LEFfevRE,  professor  in  the  fecole  d'Anthropologie  de  Paris, 
died  recently,  aged  71  years.  In  1880  Dr  Lef^vre  became  assistant  pro- 
fessor in  the  school,  and  in  1890  succeeded  Hovelacque  as  professor  of 
ethnography  and  linguistics.  He  served  as  president  of  the  Soci^t^ 
d'Anthropologie  in  1896. 

Dr  Franz  Boas  has  resigned  the  curatorship  of  the  Department  of 
Anthropology  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  but  will  con- 
tinue the  publication  of  the  results  of  the  researches  that  he  has  under- 
taken for  the  Museum. 

Dr  Albert  Ernest  Jenks,  Director  of  the  Ethnological  Survey  for 
the  Philippine  Islands,  has  been  compelled,  owing  to  ill  health,  to 
relinquish  his  duties  temporarily,  and  will  spend  several  months  in  the 
United  States. 

Dr  Ales  Hrdlicka,  of  the  United  States  National  Museum,  has 
been  elected  a  corresponding  member  of  the  Soci6t6  d*  Anthropologic 
de  Paris  and  of  the  Royal  Bohemian  Association  of  Sciences  of  Prague. 

The  degree  of  Doctor  of  Science  has  been  conferred  by  Columbia 
University  on  William  T.  Brigham,  Director  of  the  Bishop  Museum  of 
Polynesian  Ethnology  and  Natural  History  at  Honolulu. 

M.  LfeON  Lejeal,  of  the  College  de  France,  opened  in  December 
last  his  course  on  Mexican  antiquities,  established  through  the  generosity 
of  the  Due  de  Loubat. 

Dr  George  A.  Dorsev,  of  the  Field  Columbian  Museum,  has  been 
elected  a  corresponding  member  of  the  Soci6t6  d' Anthropologic  de  Paris. 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  365 

Mr  David  I.  Bushnell,  Jr,  whose  article  on  Mexican  atlatls  appears 
in  this  issue,  has  been  elected  a  correspondent  of  the  Society  Italiana 
d'Antropologia. 

Ernest  d'Acy,  who  was  the  first  to  demonstrate  the  unity  of  the 
Acheulian  and  Chellean  finds  in  France,  died  at  Paris,  January  i,  aged 
78  years. 


PROCEEDINGS  OF  THE  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  SOCIETY  OF 

WASHINGTON 

Meeting  of  December  13,  1904 

The  367th  meeting  was  held  at  the  Cosmos  Club,  December  i,  1904, 
the  President,  Dr  D.  S.  Lamb,  in  the  chair,  and  75  members  and  guests 
present. 

Dr  B.  Rosalie  Slaughter  addressed  the  Society  on  The  Buried 
Cities  of  CeyloHy  illustrating  with  lantern  slides  some  of  the  more  striking 
finds  of  recent  explorations,  sketching  the  architectural  features  of  several 
great  topes,  and  closing  with  an  account  of  the  Singhalese  migration  and 
conquest. 

Mr  J.  N.  B.  Hewitt,  in  continuation  of  the  postponed  symposium, 
What  is  a  Cianf  {American  Anthropologist y  vi.  No.  5,  1904),  discussed 
The  Iroquois  Clan,  Mr  Hewitt  showed  that  among  these  people  the 
social  and  political  structure  is  based  on  actual  and  theoretical  blood 
relationship ;  that  consanguinity  constitutes  citizenship  in  the  tribe,  and 
that  citizenship  confers  certain  essential  social,  religious,  and  political 
rights,  at  the  same  time  imposing  certain  duties  and  obligations.  Theo- 
retical consanguinity  is  that  produced  by  the  institution  of  adoption, 
which  by  a  fiction  of  law  transforms  the  blood  of  an  alien  into  that  of  an 
Iroquois.  The  clan  of  the  Iroquois  is  constituted  of  one  or  more  con- 
sanguineous groups  of  offspring  tracing  descent  through  a  female  ancestor 
and  through  females  only ;  these  groups  are  called  Ohwachiras  by  the 
Iroquois.  Where  there  are  several  Ohwachiras  constituting  a  clan,  they 
regard  one  another  as  sisters.  Hence  it  is  evident  that  the  clan  is  con- 
stituted of  groups  of  persons  regarded  as  actually  or  theoretically  con- 
sanguineous. From  a  survey  of  its  essential  characteristics  and  the 
nature  of  the  con.stitutive  elements,  Mr  Hewitt  stated  that  he  would 
define  an  Iroquois  clan  as  a  permanent  body  of  kindred,  actually  and 
theoretically  consanguineous  and  socially  and  politically  organized,  who 
trace  descent  through  the  female  line  only. 

Dr  I.  M.  Casanowicz  discussed  The  Clan  Among  the  Semites ^^^^l 
that  fragmentary  relics  of  the  primitive  system  may  be  traced  among  the 
advanced  Semites  of  Syria,  Mesopotamia,  Canaan,  and  Phenicia.  The 
phrase  **  tribes  of  Israel "  is  familiar  from  the  English  Bible.  The  tribe 
{shebetox  matteh^  properly  *  rod,*  '  staff,*  1.  ^.,  a  group  led  or  ruled  over 

366 


ANTHROPOLOGICAL  SOCIETY  OF  WASHINGTON  367 

by  a  chief  with  a  staff  or  scepter)  was  a  confederation  of  septs  or  clans 
{mishpahah,  rendered  in  the  English  Bible  by  "family**),  and  there 
were  again  aggregations  of  households  or  homesteads  {beth-aby  properly, 
'  father* s  house  * ).  Members  of  one  and  the  same  mishpahah  or  clan  are 
designated  as  brothers  or  as  being  of  the  same  "  bone  and  flesh,'*  which 
would  indicate  that  the  bond  of  union  was  mainly  blood-kinship.  It 
would  also  seem  that  a  common  worship  was  from  time  to  time  the  rally- 
ing point  for  the  members  of  a  tribe  (I  Samuel,  xx,  6).  It  may  in 
general  be  assumed  that  the  primitive  social  system  of  the  Hebrews  and 
the  other  Semitic  people  was  in  its  principles  and  purposes  essentially 
similar  to  that  of  the  nomadic  Arabs  who  retained  the  tribal  constitution 
longer  than  the  other  Semitic  races.  As  late  as  the  time  of  Mohammed, 
Arabian  society  was  composed  of  a  multitude  of  local  groups,  held 
together  within  themselves  by  a  traditional  sentiment  of  unity  and  by  the 
recognition  and  exercise  of  certain  mutual  obligations  and  social  duties 
and  rights.  These  groups  formed  the  social  and  political  units  of  society. 
Larger  combinations  of  several  groups  were  not  unknown,  but  they  were 
comparatively  unstable  and  tended  to  resolve  themselves  again  into  their 
elements.  The  chief  duties  of  the  members  of  such  a  group  were  to  act 
together  in  war  and  blood-feuds,  and  to  protect  one  another  by  blood- 
revenge.  A  kindred  group  was  marked  off  from  any  other  by  the  fact 
that  within  it  there  was  no  blood-feud.  The  unifying  force  was  blood- 
kinship  on  the  father's  side,  and  the  Arabian  genealogists  consider  these 
groups  as  the  result  of  the  expansion  and  branching  out  of  the  patriarchal 
family,  formed  by  subdivision  of  an  original  stock,  on  the  system  of  kin- 
ship through  male  descent.  But  there  are  numerous  indications  that  the 
fundamental  doctrine  of  unity  of  blood  as  the  principle  that  binds  men 
into  a  permanent  social  unity,  must  have  sprung  up  in  groups  that  were 
not  patriarchal  families  but  were  formed  under  the  system  of  mother- 
kinship.  Thus,  for  instance,  down  to  the  time  of  Mohammed,  bars  to 
marriage  among  the  Arabs  were  constituted  by  female  kinship  only.  In 
fact,  fatherhood  did  not  necessarily  imply  procreation.  However  that 
may  be,  the  key  to  all  the  primitive  divisions  and  aggregations  among  the 
Arabs  and  their  Semitic  kindred  lies  in  the  action  and  reaction  of  two 
principles :  that  a  union  of  an  absolute  and  permanent  kind  can  be  based 
only  on  the  bond  of  blood,  and  that  the  purpose  of  such  a  union  is  to 
unite  men  for  offense  and  defense.  There  was  no  hard  and  fast  line  of 
demarkation  between  clans  and  tribes  among  the  Semites.  They  were 
fluid  organizations,  subject  to  integration  and  disintegration  by  combina- 
tion and  subdivision,  by  accession  and  secession. 


{ 


368  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

Meeting  of  January  s,  1905 

The  368th  meeting  was  held  January  3d,  1905.  This  being  the 
annual  meeting  the  reports  of  the  General  Secretary,  Treasurer,  and 
Curator  were  read.  Owing  to  the  continued  ill-health  of  the  Treasurer, 
Mr  P.  B.  Pierce,  he  presented  his  resignation.  The  Society,  after 
thanking  Mr  Pierce  for  his  long,  faithful,  and  efficient  service,  elected  as 
Treasurer  Mr  George  C.  Maynard.  An  amendment  to  the  By-laws, 
changing  the  date  of  the  annual  meeting  to  the  last  meeting  in  May,  was 
adopted. 

Meeting  of  January  17,  1905 

The  369th  meeting  was  held  at  the  Cosmos  Club,  January  17th,  1905, 
the  President,  Dr  D.  S.  Lamb,  in  the  chair,  and  2  2  members  and  guests 
present.  Dr  Walter  Hough  described  Recent  Field  Work  in  Arizona 
and  New  Mexico^  conducted  by  him  for  the  U.  S.  National  Museum.  The 
region  visited  lies  in  western  New  Mexico  and  eastern  Arizona,  on  the 
northern  affluents  of  Gila  river.  Excavations  were  made  in  rectangular 
stone  pueblos  near  Luna,  New  Mexico,  and  in  cliff-houses  and  ceremo- 
nial caves  of  the  region,  yielding  a  collection  and  a  body  of  data  regard- 
ing the  distribution  of  Pueblo  tribes. 

Dr  Mitchell  Carroll  addressed  the  Society  on  The  Archaic  Sculp- 
tures in  the  Acropolis  Museum  at  Athens,  Many  lantern  views  of  these 
sculptures  were  presented,  accompanied  with  a  discussion  of  the  features 
showing  development  from  the  ruder  attempts  to  the  finished  productions 
of  the  great  classic  schools. 

Meeting  of  January  31,  1905 

The  370th  meeting  was  held  at  the  Cosmos  Club,  January  31st,  1905, 
the  President,  Dr  D.  S.  Lamb,  in  the  chair,  and  31  members  and  guests 
present. 

A  paper  by  Dr  George  Bird  Grinnell  on  Some  Cheyenne  Plant 
Medicines  was  read.  This  paper  is  published  in  the  American  Anthro- 
pologist, vol.  VII,  pp.  37-43>  1905- 

In  his  Official  Report  of  a  Journey  Across  the  Island  of  Mindanao, 
Col  J.  G.  Harbord,  U.  S.  A.,  modestly  recounted  what  was  an  important 
exploration  in  a  region  which  had  never  before  been  traveled  by  a  white 
man,  and  seldom  by  men  of  any  race.  Though  the  journey  across  Min- 
danao occupied  only  fifteen  days,  it  was  attended  with  privations  and 
sickness.  The  expedition  left  Baganga  on  the  east  coast,  traversed  diffi- 
cult mountains  to  Compostela  and  down  Agusan  river  in  dugouts  to  Butan 


ANTHROPOLOGICAL  SOCIETY  OF  WASHINGTON        368A 

on  the  west  coast.  The  people  encountered  were  mixed  Visayans  on 
the  coast  and  the  Mandayas  and  Manobos  of  the  interior,  who  live  in 
the  basin  of  the  Agusan.  The  paper  was  read  by  Dr  E.  A.  Meams, 
U.  S.  A. ,  who  accompanied  Colonel  Harbord  on  this  journey. 

Dr  J.  B.  Nichols  presented  a  paper  on   The  Sex  Composition  of 
Human  Families.    The  article  appears  in  the  American  Anthropologist ^ 
vol.  VII,  pp.  24-36,  1905. 

Meeting  of  February  141  1905 

The  371st  meeting  was  held  at  the  Cosmos  Club,  February  14,  1905, 
the  President,  Dr  D.  S.  Lamb,  in  the  chair,  and  60  members  and  guests 
present.  In  opening  the  meeting  the  President  stated  that  on  this  day 
the  Society  had  completed  its  twenty-sixth  year. 

Dr  I.  H.  Lamb  presented  a  paper  on  The  Origin  of  St  Valentine* s 
Day.  This  day,  the  speaker  remarked,  seems  to  be  associated  with  the 
name  of  a  Christian  martyr  in  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  Claudius,  about 
270  A.D.  His  name  occurs  in  church  literature,  and  his  feast  day,  Feb- 
ruary 14,  was  substituted  for  the  day  of  the  feast  of  the  Lupercal,  Febru- 
ary 15,  in  the  evolution  of  the  early  church  from  heathen  to  Christian 
forms  and  ceremonies.  From  the  Lupercal  is  probably  derived  the  cus- 
tom of  making  gifts  and  of  presenting  favors  and  especially  love  tokens 
on  St  Valentine's  Day.  Many  early  writers  describe  the  various  ob- 
servances of  St  Valentine's  as  resembling  a  game  of  forfeits,  the  "  forfeit  *  * 
being  paid  to  relieve  the  obligation  which  the  chance  of  being  drawn 
placed  upon  the  one  drawn.  Pepys'  Diary  gives  illustrations  of  this  cus- 
tom. The  chance  seemed  binding  unless  relieved  by  a  gift  or  forfeit. 
The  literature  concerning  the  Saint's  day  shows  that  it  was  popularly 
supposed  that  even  the  birds  on  that  day  selected  their  mates. 

Prof  Edgar  L.  Hewett  presented  a  communication  on  The  Arche- 
ology of  Pajarito  Park^  New  Mexico^  illustrated  with  lantern  slides.  Pro- 
fessor Hewett' s  paper  is  published  in  vol.  vi,  pp.  629-659,  of  the  Amer- 
ican Anthropologist, 

Meeting  of  February  28,  1905 

The  372d  meeting  was  held  February  28,  1905,  the  President,  Dr 
D.  S.  Lamb,  in  the  chair.  The  evening  was  devoted  to  a  symposium  on 
the  Origin  of  Aboriginal  Floridian  Culture. 

Mr  James  Mooney  discussed  the  Ethnography  of  Florida,  stating 
that  the  name  Florida,  as  originally  applied  by  the  Spaniards,  included 
the  whole  coast  and  hinterland  from  Chesapeake  bay  about  to  Panuco  river 


{ 


368b  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7, 1905 

in  Mexico.  The  state  received  its  present  limitation,  embracing  an  am 
of  nearly  60,000  square  miles,  on  coming  into  possession  of  the  United 
States  in  182 1.  For  a  period  of  more  than  three  centuries,  with  the 
exception  of  the  twenty  years  from  1763  to  1783,  it  was  a  Spanish  colony, 
and  as  a  consequence  most  of  its  history  must  be  gathered  from  Spanish 
sources.  The  Indian  history  may  be  divided  into  two  periods,  viz.,  the 
ancient  and  the  modem,  the  separating  event  being  the  destruction  of  the 
missions  and  the  invasion  of  the  northern  tribes  about  the  year  1700. 
Before  this  invasion  the  area  of  the  present  state  was  occupied  by  some 
fifteen  tribes.  It  had  been  hastily  assumed  on  insufficient  evidence  that 
all  of  these  belonged  either  to  the  Muskhogean  stock  along  the  northern 
border  or  to  the  Timuquanan  stock  in  the  west  of  the  peninsula.  The 
fact  is,  that  we  have  as  yet  no  linguistic  authority  for  extending  the  Timu- 
quanan boundary  beyond  the  middle  of  the  peninsula,  and  the  rest  of  the 
area  must  for  the  present  remain  uncolored  upon  the  linguistic  map. 
There  is,  however,  strong  probability  that  the  language  of  the  Caloosa, 
the  most  important  of  these  southern  tribes,  may  yet  be  recovered  from 
the  Spanish  mission  archives.  The  most  interesting  point  in  this  con- 
nection is  the  fact,  brought  out  by  the  paper,  of  the  existence  of  an  Ara- 
wakan  colony  from  Cuba  somewhere  upon  the  southwestern  coast  of 
Florida,  within  the  territory  of  the  Caloosa.  Their  ancestors  had  landed 
in  Florida  in  search  of  the  same  mythic  fountain  of  youth  of  which  Ponce 
de  Leon  heard  from  the  islanders  and  had  been  forcibly  detained  by  the 
Caloosa  chief,  who  colonized  them  in  a  settlement,  where  for  a  longtime 
afterward  they  still  preserved  their  separate  identity.  The  chain  of  Ara- 
wakan  extension  is  thus  established  from  the  Paraguay  river  of  southern 
South  America,  up  through  Brazil,  Guiana,  and  the  Antilles  to  the  main- 
land of  North  America.  It  was  also  shown  that  a  regular  communication 
existed  between  the  tribes  of  Florida  and  those  of  the  Antilles  during  the 
early  Indian  period,  and  that  the  so-called  "Caribbean  influence"  dis- 
cussed by  archeologists  was  more  properly  Arawakan. 

Dr  Cyrus  Thomas  discussed  Foreign  Influence  in  Prehistoric  Florida^ 
giving  a  critical  review  of  the  account  of  expeditions  previous  to  1513 
in  search  of  a  mythical  "River  Jordan,"  which  may  have  introduced 
Antillean  natives  (Carib  and  Arawak)  to  the  peninsula.  The  conclusion 
reached  by  Dr  Thomas  is  that  the  weight  of  evidence  is  against  the  refer- 
ence of  historical  accounts  of  Antillean  migration  to  periods  before  the 
discovery. 

Mr  W.  H.  Holmes  discussed  Traces  of  Exotic  Influences  m  the 
Art  of  Florida^  reaching  the  conclusion  that  archeological  evidences 


ANTHROPOLOGICAL  SOCIETY  OF  WASHINGTON        368c 

show  that,  leaving  the  question  of  peoples  aside,  there  is  proof  in  the 
artifacts  that  Antillean  culture  was  transplanted  to  the  mainland  to  a 
slight  extent. 

Mr  J.  D.  McGuiRE  gave  a  synopsis  of  The  Explorations  of  Mr 
Clarence  B,  Moore  in  Florida^  presenting  the  results  of  these  important 
investigations  which  show  traces  of  Antillean  influence. 

Meeting  of  March  14,  1905 

The  373d  meeting  was  held  March  14,  1905,  President  Lamb  in  the 
chair  and  29  members  present. 

Rev.  Dr  James  S.  Lemon  addressed  the  Society  on  The  Samaritan 
Passover  of  1904^  sketching  the  location,  village,  history,  and  customs 
of  this  rapidly  waning  people,  now  numbering  only  160.  Dr  Lemon, 
who  was  present  at  the  Passover  celebration  of  1904,  described  minutely 
the  ceremonies  on  Mount  Gerazim,  which  are  held  every  year  on  the 
14th  day  of  the  month  Nisan. 

Mr  a.  E.  Sheldon's  paper  on  Ancient  Indian  Fire-places  in  South 
Dakota  Bad-lands  was  read  by  Mr  J.  D.  McGuire.  This  paper  is 
printed  in  the  American  Anthropologist y  vol.  vii.  No.  i,  1905. 

Meeting  of  March  28,  1905 

The  374th  meeting  was  held  on  the  above  date.  President  Lamb  in 
the  chair  and  53  members  and  guests  present. 

The  General  Secretary  called  attention  to  primitive  textiles  of  feath- 
ers, buffalo  hair,  and  basketry  recently  received  at  the  U.  S.  National 
Museum  from  Cafion  de  Chelly,  Arizona. 

Mr  H.  W.  Henshaw  spoke  of  Popular  Fallacies  Respecting  the 
North  American  Indians^  reviewing  the  erroneous  ideas  prevailing  re- 
garding this  race.  The  paper  is  printed  in  full  in  the  American  Anthro- 
pologist ^  vol.  VII,  No.  I,  1905. 

Dr  I.  M.  Casanowicz  exhibited  an  original  Grgeco- Roman  portrait 
of  the  ist  century  B.C.  to  the  3d  century  a.d.,  from  the  collection  of 
Theodor  Graf  of  Vienna,  found  in  a  Ptolemaic  cemetery  in  Egypt.  This 
portrait  is  now  exhibited  in  the  U.  S.  National  Museum. 

Miss  Natalie  Curtis  gave  a  pleasing  and  instructive  rendering  of 
songs  from  various  Indian  tribes. 

Mr  W.  E.  Safford  presented  a  paper  on  Fruits  and  Vegetables  of 
the  Ancient  Peruvians  as  Represented  in  the  Pottery  from  their  Graves ^ 
illustrated  by  specimens.     Vessels  in  the  form  of  ears  of  maize,  potatoes, 
peanuts,  etc.,  were  shown,  and  the  absence  of  the  banana  from  such 
representations  was  commented  on. 


368d  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Meeting  of  April  iz,  1905 

The  375th  meeting  was  held  at  the  Cosmos  Club,  President  Lamb  in 
the  chair  and  48  members  and  guests  present. 

Dr  George  A.  Curriden  spoke  on  Indian  Beadwork,  exhibiting 
specimens  of  bead  embroidery  and  weaving  from  various  Indian  tribes. 

Dr  Swan  M.  Burnett  addressed  the  Society  on  Emerson's  Place  in 
Modern  Thought  and  Opinion,  This  paper,  which  is  of  high  literary 
quality,  embodied  the  opinion  that  the  influence  of  Emerson  is  still 
potent. 

Dr  James  S.  Lemon,  owing  to  the  limited  time  remaining,  gave 
merely  an  abstract  of  his  paper  on  The  Instinctive  Idea  of  Immortality^ 
stating  that  the  idea  exists  with  all  peoples  and  is  the  real  basis  of  friend- 
ship. In  the  discussion  Mr  J.  N.  B.  Hewitt  stated  that  American  Indians 
entertain  this  idea,  and  Mr  Mooney  said  that  among  the  Indians  growth  is 
regarded  as  normal  and  death  as  abnormal,  and  that  the  latter  is  brought 
about  by  a  malevolent  spirit  or  an  enemy.  The  Indian  draws  no  dis- 
tinction between  animate  and  inanimate  objects,  believing  all  to  possess 
life. 

Meeting  of  April  25,  1905 

At  the  376th  meeting  President  Lamb  was  in  the  chair  and  29  mem- 
bers and  guests  were  present. 

Dr  Ales  Hrdlicka  gave  an  account  of  his  Recent  Expedition  to  the 
Southwest,  The  tribes  visited  on  this  expedition  were  the  Apache  of 
San  Carlos  reservation,  the  Pima,  and  the  Mescaleros.  The  object 
of  the  expedition,  which  was  financed  by  the  Bureau  of  American 
Ethnology,  was  to  supplement  the  speaker's  anthropological  studies  made 
on  five  previous  trips  for  the  Hyde  Expedition  under  the  auspices  of  the 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History.  The  Apache  possess  but  few 
remnants  of  their  native  organization ;  they  still  recognize  numerous 
bands,  and  a  few  of  these  have  still  a  recognized  chief ;  but  tribal  coher- 
ence is  lost.  Of  all  the  Indians  in  the  Southwest,  the  various  Apache 
branches,  including  the  Mescaleros,  are  among  the  most  common-sense 
people,  and  all  are  rapidly  advancing  in  civilization.  Dr  Hrdlicka  de- 
scribed also  the  archeologic  remains  in  San  Carlos  valley,  an  account  of 
which  will  appear  in  the  next  number  of  the  Anthropologist, 

The  principal  attention  on  the  expedition  was  directed  toward  the 
physical  and  physiological  study  of  Indian  children,  of  whom  about  1,400 
were  examined.  An  additional  inquiry  was  also  made  into  the  pathology 
and  medicine  of  the  people,  and  numerous  medicinal  and  food  plants  were 


ANTHROPOLOGICAL  SOCIETY  OF  WASHINGTON        368E 

collected.  It  was  found  that  in  all  the  tribes  visited  there  are  two 
classes  of  individuals  who  treat  the  sick :  one  consists  of  elder  people, 
principally  old  women,  who  administer  medicines,  mainly  vegetal,  in 
much  the  same  manner  as  is  done  by  old  women  among  the  whites ;  the 
other  class  consists  of  medicine  men,  and  a  few  medicine  women,  who  in 
their  treatment  employ  prayers  and  incantations  chiefly.  Most  of  these 
also  use  some  form  of  deception  and  must  be  classed  as  charlatans.  Among 
the  Mescaleros  alone  it  was  found  that  ordinary  medication  has  reached 
the  stage  in  which  several  remedies  are  combined  into  a  single  decoction 
or  application.  Among  all  the  Indians  visited,  scarification  is  in  use ; 
the  Pima  and  Maricopa  use  actual  cautery,  the  Maricopa  employ  massage, 
the  Mescaleros  peculiar  sweat-baths  for  the  cure  of  rheumatism,  etc. 
Details  are  reserved  for  future  communication. 

Mr  FRANas  La  Flesche  read  a  paper  on  The  Medicine  Man.  Mr 
La  Flesche  said  that  it  is  not  generally  credited  by  the  white  race  that 
the  tribes  of  this  continent  did  not  differ  from  the  other  peoples  of  the 
earth  in  their  efforts  to  understand  the  meaning  of  life  in  all  its  variety  of 
forms  and  the  relation  of  these  forms  to  the  great  mysterious  power  that 
animates  all  life.  It  is  true,  however,  that  the  natives  of  this  land  had 
given  these  themes  much  thought  and  had  formulated  their  ideas  concern- 
ing them  long  before  the  European  set  foot  upon  this  soil.  The  lack  of 
intelligence  as  to  this  fact  has  been  due  in  part  to  the  absence  of  a  written 
literature  among  the  tribes  within  the  area  of  the  United  States,  while 
such  records  as  did  exist  have  suffered  grave  misapprehension  and  mis- 
treatment on  the  part  of  observers.  Most  of  the  missionaries  who  have 
labored  among  the  Indians  did  not  stop  to  inquire  if  the  people  had  any 
idea  of  a  power  that  made  and  controlled  all  things.  They  seem  to  have 
taken  for  granted  that  savages  were  not  capable,  by  their  own  effort,  of 
conceiving  the  thought  of  such  a  power.  It  was  not  possible  therefore 
for  the  white  people  to  gain,  through  the  medium  of  these  teachers,  any 
definite  knowledge  of  the  real  thoughts  of  the  Indian  concerning  the 
Supreme  Being.  The  Indian  has  not  fared  much  better  at  the  hands  of 
those  who  have  undertaken  to  study  him  as  an  object  of  ethnological 
interest.  The  myths,  the  rituals,  and  the  legends  of  the  race  have 
frequently  been  recorded  in  such  manner  as  to  obscure  their  true  mean- 
ing and  to  make  them  to  appear  childish  or  as  foolish.  This  in  large 
measure  has  been  due  to  linguistic  difficulties. 

The  Indians  who  lived  within  the  borders  of  this  country  knew  no 
written  literature :  the  record  of  their  religious  conceptions  was  kept  by 
means  of  rites,  ceremonies,  and  symbols.     Among  many  of  the  tribes  (as, 


368f  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

for  example,  the  Omaha) ,  these  S3rmbols  were  embodied  in  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  tribe  itself  and  in  the  ceremonies  connected  with  the  avocations 
of  the  people.  The  burden  of  memorizing  and  transmitting  with  accu- 
racy, from  one  generation  to  another,  the  rites  and  ceremonies  common  to 
the  tribe,  was  divided  among  men  selected  from  each  of  the  clans.  This 
responsibility  was  not  placed  on  these  men  without  a  careful  consideration 
of  each  man's  qualifications  and  fitness  to  be  so  entrusted,  for  the  reason 
that  the  recognition  of  the  Great  Spirit  as  a  ruler,  and  the  observation  of 
the  prescribed  manner  of  worshiping  him,  was  believed  to  be  essential  to 
the  continued  existence  of  the  people  as  an  organized  body,  that  is,  as  a 
tribe. 

Four  requisites  were  demanded  of  the  one  who  was  to  deal  with  the 
mysteries  enshrined  in  the  rites  and  ceremonies  of  the  tribe :  ( i )  The 
most  important  of  these  was  their  cognition  of  the  sanctity  of  human 
life.  The  man  who  was  to  mediate  between  the  people  and  Wa-kon-da 
must  stand  before  his  tribesmen  and  the  Great  Spirit  with  hands  unstained 
with  the  blood  of  his  fellow  man.  (2)  He  must  be  a  man  whose  words 
never  deviate  from  the  path  of  truth,  for  the  Great  Spirit  manifests  the 
value  placed  upon  truth,  in  the  regular  and  orderly  movements  of  the 
heavenly  bodies,  and  in  the  ever-recurring  day  and  night,  summer  and 
winter.  (3)  He  must  be  slow  to  anger,  for  the  patience  of  the  Great 
Spirit  is  shown  in  his  forbearance  with  man's  waywardness.  (4)  He 
must  be  deliberate  and  prudent  of  speech,  lest  by  haste  he  should  profane 
his  trust  through  thoughtless  utterance.  These  were  the  prophets  and 
priests — the  men  who  are  termed  in  the  Indian  languages  as  **men  of 
mystery"  and  by  Europeans  as  "medicine  men."  The  entire  life  of 
the  medicine  man,  both  public  and  private,  was  devoted  to  his  calling : 
his  solitary  fasts  were  frequent  and  his  mind  was  apt  to  be  occupied  in 
contemplating  the  supernatural ;  his  public  duties  were  many  and  often 
onerous ;  his  services  were  needed  when  children  were  dedicated  to  the 
Great  Spirit ;  he  must  conduct  the  installation  of  chiefs ;  when  dangers 
threatened,  he  must  call  these  leaders  to  the  council  of  war ;  and  he  was 
the  one  to  confer  military  honors  on  the  warrior ;  the  appointment  of 
officers  to  enforce  order  during  the  tribal  buffalo  hunt  was  his  duty ;  and 
he  it  was  who  must  designate  the  time  for  the  planting  of  the  maize. 

There  was  another  kind  of  medicine  man,  very  different  in  character. 
He  held  no  office  of  public  trust,  for  he  lacked  one  of  the  essential  quali- 
fications for  such  responsibility,  and  that  was  truthfulness :  he  continually 
wandered  in  thought,  word,  and  deed  from  the  straight  path  of  truth. 
He  was  shrewd,  crafty,  and  devoid  of  scruple.     The  intelligent  classes 


ANTHROPOLOGICAL   SOCIETY  OF   WASHINGTON        368G 

within  the  tribe  held  him  in  contempt,  while  the  ignorant  of  the  com- 
munity feared  him.  His  bold  pretentions  enabled  him  to  carry  on  suc- 
cessfully his  profession  of  deception  upon  the  simple-minded.  These 
tricksters  were  much  in  evidence  in  the  tribes,  and  they  never  failed  to 
impress  the  stranger  who  traveled  and  wrote  books. 

The  tribal  religious  rites  were  invariably  observed  either  annually  or 
at  the  beginning  of  a  season.  To  go  through  the  forms  at  any  other  time 
would  be  a  sacrilege,  so  the  medicine  man  who  officiated  on  these  occa- 
sions never  had  the  opportunity  to  become  known  to  the  stranger,  as 
had  the  sorcerer,  who  could  go  through  his  incantations  whenever  and 
wherever  inducement  might  offer.  It  can  therefore  be  readily  under- 
stood how  this  character  became  prominent  in  the  literature  of  the  white 
race,  and  how  his  clever  inventions  were  believed  to  represent  the 
religious  beliefs  of  the  Indians. 

Dr  Robert  Stein  addressed  the  Society  on  Tlie  Proposed  International 
Phonetic  Conference^  sketching  the  history  of  the  movement  and  stating 
that  the  need  of  reform  is  shown  by  the  fact  that  there  are  seven  different 
dictionaries  with  as  many  keys  to  pronounciation.  It  is  felt,  Dr  Stein 
stated,  that  the  reform  must  progress  slowly  and  that  the  logical  first  step 
is  to  teach  phonetic  spelling  to  children.  Dr  Stein  believes  that  the  pro- 
posed conference  may  create  an  alphabet  that  dictionaries  will  recognize. 

Meeting  of  Hay  9,  1905 

The  annual  address  of  the  President,  Dr  D.  S.  Lamb,  was  given 
under  the  auspices  of  the  Washington  Academy  of  Sciences  at  the  Cosmos 
Club  on  the  above  date.  The  subject  was  The  Story  of  the  Anthropolog- 
ical Society  of  Washington,  After  a  patient  search  among  the  records 
Dr  Lamb  was  able  to  bring  together  much  interesting  historical  and  sta- 
tistical data  showing  the  creditable  work  the  Anthropological  Society  has 
accomplished  in  the  26  years  of  its  existence.  The  address  will  be  pub- 
lished later. 

Meeting  of  May  23,  1905 

The  377th  meeting  was  held  at  the  Cosmos  Club,  and  in  the  absence 
of  President  Lamb,  Vice-president  W.  H.  Holmes  took  the  chair.  The 
Society  proceeded  to  the  election  of  officers  for  the  ensuing  year,  with  the 
following  result : 

President,  Dr  George  M.  Kober;  Vice-presidents :  (A.  Somatology) 
Dr  A.  Hrdlicka,  (B.  Psychology)  Dr  Frank  Baker,  (C.  Esthetology) 
Prof  W.  H.  Holmes,  (D.  Technology)  Dr  J.  Walter  Fewkes,  (E.  Soci- 
ology) Mr  James  Mooney,   (F.  Philology)  Mr  J.  N.  B.  Hewitt,  (G. 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  7—25 


368h  AMERICA X  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Sophiology)  Dr  Lester  F.  Ward ;  General  Secretary,  Dr  Walter  Hough  ; 
Secretary  to  the  Board  of  Managers,  Mr  J.  D.  McGuire ;  Treasurer^  Mr 
George  C.  Maynard ;  Curator,  Mrs  Marianna  P.  Seaman ;  Councilors  : 
Weston  Flint,  F.  W.  Hodge,  John  R.  Swanton,  I.  M.  Casanowicz,  Paul 
E.  Beckwith,  C.  Hart  Merriam. 

Walter  Hough, 
General  Secretary, 


American  Anthropologist 


NEW  SERIES 


Vol.  7,  No.  2  April-June,  1905  Supplement 


T" 


ESSAY   ON   THE   GRAMMAR   OF  THE  YUKAGHIR 

LANGUAGE^ 

By  WALDEMAR  JOCHELSON 
Contents 

PAGB. 

1.  Preface  369 

2.  Phonology 372 

The  Parts  of  Speech 375 

3.  The  Noun 375 

4.  The  Adjective 384 

5.  Numerals 385 

6.  The  Pronoun 388 

7.  The  Verb 391 

8.  The  Gerund  or  Verbal  Adverb 406 

9.  The  Adverb 407 

10.  The  Post-positions 409 

11.  Concluding  Remarks 41a 

12.  Appendix 413 

A  tale  of  what  the  Ancient  Yukaghir  did  with  their  dead  shamans 413 

A  free  translation  of  the  text 415 

A  grammatical  analysis  of  the  text 416 

PREFACE 

I  took  up  the  study  of  the  two  dialects  of  the  Yukaghir  lan- 
guage in  1895-97  during  my  participation  in  the  Yakut  Expe- 
dition, fitted  out  by  the  Russian  Imperial  Geographical  Society, 
and  continued  it  on  the  North  Pacific  Expedition  (from  1900  to 
1902),  provided  for  by  Mr.  Morris  K.  Jesup,  President  of  the 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History  in  New  York.  My 
work  on  the  Jesup  North  Pacific  Expedition  was  part  of  a 
general  systematic  investigation  of  the  tribes  inhabiting  the 
coast  of  the  North  Pacific  Ocean.  The  full  results  of  these 
studies  will  be  published  later  in  the  Memoirs  of  the  Ameri- 
can Museum  of  Natural  History. 

1  Reprinted  from  the  Annals  of  the  New  York  Academy  of  Sciences  and  herein 
published  by  the  American  Ethnological  Society. 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  ^ — X  s  369 


370  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

All  that  was  previously  known  of  the  Yukaghir  language 
consisted  of  records  of  a  few  hundred  words  and  sentences 
collected  incidentally  by  various  travelers  and  Russian  officials, 
particularly  by  Baron  v.  Maydell  (1870),  and  worked  up  by 
the  late  Professor  A.  Schiefner  in  three  articles  which  appeared 
in  the  publications  of  the  Imperial  Academy  of  Sciences  in  St. 
Petersburg.^ 

Owing  to  the  meagreness  of  the  linguistic  material,  the  con- 
clusions of  Professor  Schiefner  could  not  be  very  far  reaching. 
Besides,  incorrect  records  and  inexact  translations  of  phrases 
collected  by  incidental  explorers  led  to  wrong  conclusions. 

However,  it  can  be  inferred,  even  from  these  articles,  that 
the  Yukaghir  language  stands  isolated  from  the  Siberian  lan- 
guages of  the  so-called  Ural-Altaic  group  ;  and  for  that  reason 
it  has  attracted  the  attention  of  linguists. 

Since  the  time  of  Baron  v.  Maydell's  travels  (1868-70),  the 
Yukaghir  language  has  been  considered  extinct,  for  the  only 
reason  that  Baron  v.  Maydell  collected  his  **Sprachproben" 
records  among  the  Russianized  Yukaghir,  on  the  Anadyr 
River,  from  an  old  woman  who  still  remembered  her  own  lan- 
guage to  a  certain  extent. 

But  my  own  investigations  have  shown  that  there  are  still 
two  independent  Yukaghir  dialects  spoken  by  nearly  seven 
hundred  people.  But  the  days  of  the  Yukaghir  language  are 
really  counted,  owing  to  the  gradual  dying-out  of  the  people 
who  speak  it.  Even  in  the  short  interval  between  the  two  ex- 
peditions in  which  I  participated,  some  Yukaghir  families,  on 
the  middle  course  and  on  the  mouth  of  the  Omolon  river,  who 
conserved  their  language  became  extinct. 

The  two  dialects  of  the  Yukaghir  language  may  be  called, — 
one,  the  Kolyma ;  the  other,  the  Tundra  dialect.     The  former 


1  **Obcr  die  Sprache  dcr  Jukagiren"  (Bull.  Hist,  PhiL,  XVI,  1859,  pp.  241- 
253;  MiL  asiat.f  III,  pp.  595-612).  "Beitrage  zur  Kentniss  der  jukagirischen 
Sprache*'  (Bull,^  XVI,  1871,  pp.  373-399;  M^L  asiat.^  VI,  pp.  409-446). 
**t)ber  Baron  v.  Maydell's  jukagirische  Sprachproben "  {Bull.y  XVII,  1871,  pp. 
86-103  ;  Mil.  asiat.y  VI,  pp.  600-626).  These  articles  served  the  philologist  Fr. 
Miiller  as  a  basis  for  an  outline  of  the  Yukaghir  language  in  his  work  **  Grundriss 
der  Sprachwissenschaft,"  Bd.  II,  Abth.  I,  pp.  124-133,  Wien,  1882. 


jocHKL$ONj      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         37 1 

was  in  vogue  in  the  region  of  the  Kolyma  River  and  in  the  val- 
leys along  its  tributaries  ;  the  latter  on  the  northern  tundra,  be- 
tween the  lower  parts  of  the  Kolyma  and  Lena  Rivers.  At  the 
present  time  the  Kolyma  dialect  is  confined  to  the  region  along 
the  Yassachna  and  Korkodon  Rivers ;  and  the  Tundra  dialect 
to  the  tundra  between  the  Large  Chukchee  and  the  Alaseya 
Rivers.* 

Besides,  the  Chuvantzy  language,  which  is  now  completely 
extinct,  and  which  was  spoken  in  former  time  to  the  east  of  the 
Kolyma  River,  also  used  to  be,  according  to  all  collected  data, 
a  dialect  of  the  Yukaghir  language. 

The  territory  where  the  two  former  dialects  are  spoken  is  in- 
dicated upon  the  accompanying  map. 

I  mastered  the  Yukaghir  language  sufficiently  to  obtain  full 
command  of  their  grammatical  forms,  and  not  only  to  take  ac- 
curate records  of  the  texts,  but  also  to  converse  freely  in  it. 

The  linguistic  material  on  the  Yukaghir  dialects  collected  by 
me  is  composed  of  a  hundred  and  fifty  texts,  a  dictionary  con- 
taining nine  thousand  words,  in  which  many  words  from  the 
texts  have  not  yet  been  entered,  and  vast  phraseological  material 
for  a  complete  grammatical  outline  of  the  two  dialects.' 

The  present  article  is  an  abridged  grammatical  sketch  of  the 
Yukaghir  language.  The  space  at  my  disposal  does  not  allow 
me  to  introduce  the  peculiarities  of  the  Tundra  dialect,  and  the 
article  is  thus  mainly  a  brief  sketch  of  the  Kolyma  dialect.  It 
may  be  noted  that  the  phonetical  and  morphological  peculiarities 
of  the  Tundra  dialect  are  rather  insignificant,  but  that  it  has  ab- 


1  A  considerable  part  of  the  Yukaghir  who  used  to  speak  this  language  has  died 
•out ;  a  part,  at  the  mouth  of  the  Omolon  River,  on  the  lower  course  of  the  Kolyma 
and  on  the  banks  of  both  the  Large  Anui  and  the  Dry  Anui  Rivers  has  become 
Russianized ;  another  part,  on  the  tundra  between  the  Indigirka  and  Vana  Rivers, 
has  been  assimilated  by  the  Tungus  ;  and  still  another,  on  the  tundra  between  the 
Yana  and  Lena  Rivers,  has  adopted  the  Yakut  language.    (See  linguistic  map. ) 

'  Up  to  the  present  time  a  hundred  texts  have  been  published  by  the  Imperial 
Academy  of  Sciences  at  St.  Petersburg,  under  the  title,  *'  Materials  for  the  Study  of 
the  Yukaghir  Language  and  Folk- Lore,  collected  in  the  Kolyma  District,  Part  I, 
St.  Petersburg,  1900";  and  an  article  containing  a  grammatical  analysis  of  one  text, 
in  the  Bulletin  de  P  Acadimie  Impiriale  des  Sciences  de  St.  Pitersbourgy  1898,  Sep- 
lembre,  T.  IX,  No.  2. 


372  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST         [n.  s.,  7, 1905 

sorbed  a  considerable  quantity  of  Tungus  stems,  which  in  their 
further  development  have  been,  however,  subjected  to  the  laws 
of  the  Yukaghir  grammar. 

PHONOLOGY 

Following  is  a  description  of  the  phonetic  elements  of  the 
Yukaghir  language : 

«,  e^  /,  ^,  «,  have  their  continental  sounds  (short). 

a^  ^,  I,  ^,  n,  are  long  vowels. 

To  avoid  the  introduction  of  unnecessary  marks,  I  do  not 
annotate  here  the  obscure  vowels  separately.  It  may  be  said 
only,  that  all  short  vowels  are  obscure  when  preceding  a  spi- 
rant or  »,  or  following  a  spirant. 

The  series  of  diphthongs  is  as  follows  : 

cd^  eiy  oiy  ui 
i>,  iu,  uo^  eo 
au,  eu,  ou 

Their  pronunciation  is  as  in  German. 

Triphthongs  are  not  frequent. 

y  as  in  year. 

/  as  in  German. 

/  as  in  English  all. 

/'  has  a  spirant  added. 

r  as  in  French. 

m  as  in  English. 

n  as  in  English. 

fl  is  pronounced  at  the  end  of  the  word  as  ng  in  beings  and 
in  the  middle  as  ng  in  the  German  word  Enge. 

vr  palatized  m  (similar  to  my), 

IV  palatized  n  (similar  to  ny\ 

b  and  /  are  pronounced  with  aspiration,  owing  to  which  these 
consonants  are  intermediate  between  b  and  Vy  and  p  and  /• 
There  is  no  v  or  /  in  the  Yukaghir  language.  The  Tundra 
dialect,  however,  has  a  sound  that  corresponds  to  the  English 
w.  When  placed  between  two  vowels,  b  approaches  very  nearly 
the  sound  of  v. 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE   YUKAGHIK  LANGUAGE         373 

^,  /  as  in  English. 
d  like  dr. 

m 

g  like  g  in  good. 

//  as  in  English. 

/r  as  in  English. 

/*,  k^  have  a  spirant  added.  They  are  placed  at  the  end  of  a 
word,  if  the  following  word  does  not  commence  with  a  vowel. 
The  same  applies  to  /'. 

//-/  before  /  is  pronounced  soft,  by  pressing  the  tip  of  the 
tongue  to  the  front  part  of  the  palate.  /  and  /  blend  into  one 
sound. 

tn  are  blended  into  one  nasal  sound. 

g  velar  g. 

c  like  the  English  slu 

it  is  equal  to  ty  ;  but  old  men  pronounce  it  so  that  it  sounds 
more  like  ch  in  chance,  while  with  women  and  children  it  sounds 
closer  to  c  in  the  German  word  Ceder.  This  seems  to  be  a  trace 
of  the  difference  between  the  pronunciation  of  men  and  women, 
just  as  it  exists  in  the  Chukchee  language.  At  the  end  of  the 
word,  ^  is  pronounced  by  women  almost  like  s, 

J  \s  dy ;  but  old  men  pronounce  it  more  like  j  in  the  word 
joy,  while  women  and  children  pronounce  it  like  dz.  If  it  oc- 
curs between  two  vowels,  one  of  which  has  a  long  sound,/ is 
pronounced  like  the  French  j  in  jour. 

X  like  ch  in  the  German  Bach, 

X*  like  ch  in  the  German  ich,  at  the  end  of  the  word. 

The  language  bears  but  faint  traces  of  an  original  harmony  of 
sounds,  which  is  little  observed  at  present.  It  may  be  described 
as  follows  :  o  in  the  stem  does  not  tolerate  ^  or  rt:  in  the  suffix. 
In  the  former  case,  e  of  the  suffix  is  changed  into  o ;  in  the 
latter,  o  of  the  stem  changes  into  a.     For  example  : 

Stem  Suffix 

coro'pio-  (man)  go  (locative)  at  present  a\^o  ustd  coro^ moge     1  S.  SS 

corc^mo-  lox*  (Def.  Nominative)  at  present  dihousQdcoro'mo-lek*      12 

fw^/gv- (middle)  dogo  (locative  accompanied  at  pres-  also  used  mo'igo-dege  \   and 

ent  by  a  possessive  element. )  32. 


374  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

m</do  to  sit. 

madd'  to  begin  the  act  of  sitting,  sit  down,  instead  of  nu/dod^ 
in  which  case  o  and  a  combine  into  one  long  a  (see  §  92). 

^  is  a  weak  vowel,  and  g  and  k^  when  preceding  or  following 
it,  change  respectively  into  the  corresponding  sounds  g  and  jr, 
as  may  be  seen  from  the  examples,     e  and  a  are  strong  vowels. 

Not  all  consonants  can  begin  words.     The  Yukaghir  avoid : 

1.  Clusters  of  two  consonants  at  the  beginning  of  a  word. 
When  pronouncing  Russian  words  beginning  with  two  con- 
sonants, the  Yukaghir  will  either  drop  the  first  (for  example, 
Russian  word  statu! xa^  **  old  woman,"  is  pronounced  by  the 
Yukaghir  teri/ke),  or  they  will  precede  the  word  by  the  vowel 
/  (for  example,  the  Russian  word  sta'riy,  *'  old,"  is  transformed 
into  i'cteret), 

2.  r  at  the  beginning  of  a  word. 

3.  The  occurrence  of  ^,  g,  g^j,  and  rf,  either  at  the  beginning 
or  the  end  of  a  word.  In  such  cases,  these  letters  change  into 
the  corresponding  surds  p,  k,  r,  and  /. 

The  first  syllable  is  usually  accented  in  the  Yukaghir  lan- 
guage. This  is  an  almost  invariable  rule  with  dissyllables. 
There  are  very  few  exceptions  to  this  rule ;  for  example,  aju' 
("word"),  eme'i  (** mother"),  UUe*  ("earth"),  and  some  post- 
positions, likeyo/a'  ("after"),  yVV  ("self"),  a/a'  ("near"). 

Trisyllables  are  usually  accented  on  the  second  syllable ; 
but  so  far  I  have  been  unable  to  establish  a  rule.  This  would 
require  a  comparative  study  of  a  large  number  of  words,  which 
will  be  made  in  the  elaboration  of  the  dictionary. 

Tetrasyllables  or  polysyllables  are  mostly  accented  on  the 
first  syllable ;  but  many  of  them  acquire  an  additional  accent, 
which  is  usually  put  on  the  possessive  element  of  the  suffix. 
I  have  marked  the  additional  accent  by  means  of  a  grave 
accent  ('). 

Very  few  words  are  accented  on  the  third  syllable,  as,  for 
instance,  pqjerxo'  ("  day  ")  ;  but  I  heard  some  people  pronounce 
po'jerxo. 

In  adding  suffixes  to  dissyllables,  the  accent  passes  to  the 
second  syllable:  mihno  ("house"),  numo'ge  (c.  loc),  but  also 


»> 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         375 

nu'tnoHin  (c.  dat.).  Trisyllables,  when  accented  on  the  second 
syllable,  usually  retain  the  accent  on  the  same  syllable,  car(/mo 
("  man  "),  coro'mogi  (poss.  suf.) ;  but  in  some  cases  the  accent 
is  transferred  to  the  first  syllable,  kude'de  (**  to  kill  '*),  ku'dedelle 
(•'having  killed"). 

The  verbal  prefixes  always  take  the  principal  accent : 
ne'-kudide  (" kill  each  other "),  (/Ukudide  ("  would  kill ''). 

THE   PARTS   OF   SPEECH 

The  Noun 

§  I .  Case-Suffixes.  —  Relations  between  objects  are  expressed 
by  means  of  suffixes  only.  I  distinguish  between  case-suffixes 
and  other  post-positions  (see  §  123)  also  serving  to  indicate  re- 
lations between  objects,  for  the  reason  that  the  case-suffixes 
have  already  lost  their  distinct  sense,  and,  with  the  exception 
of  the  casus  comitativus  suffix  (see  §  123),  they  cannot  consti- 
tute a  basis  for  other  word  formations. 

§  2.  Case-suffixes  are  joined  to  the  following  classes  of  nouns  : 

§3.  (i)  To  nouns  proper,  that  is,  to  such  words  as  indicate 
only  objects. 

§4.  (2)  To  verbal  nouns.  As  will  be  seen  below,  a  con- 
siderable part  of  verbal,  that  is,  predicative,  forms,  may  be  used 
as  nouns  (see  §§  80,  82,  112,  113),  and  form  any  element  of  the 
sentence.  Only  when  used  as  a  modifier  does  the  verbal  noun 
remain  unchanged  (see  §  80).  In  all  other  cases  the  case-suf- 
fixes are  joined  to  it  just  as  to  nouns  proper. 

§  5.  (3)  To  personal  pronouns,  absolute  possessive  pronouns, 
and  other  pronouns  used  as  substantives  (see  §§  54,  55,  56,  57). 
Sometimes  case-suffixes  are  joined  to  pronouns  used  as  adjec- 
tives (see  §  56). 

§  6.  (4)  Most  post-positions  that  are  joined  to  nouns  as  case- 
suffixes  and  substitute  prepositions  (see  §  1 24). 

§  7.  Possessive  Suffixes.  —  The  possessive  suffixes  found  in 
the  Ural-Altaic  as  well  as  in  the  Eskimo  dialects  (in  which  the 
same  possessive  suffixes  are  joined  to  noun  and  verbal  bases) 
are  in  the  Yukaghir  language  altogether  absent  in  verbs  and  in 


3/6 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7, 1905 


nouns  for  the  purpose  of  indicating  the  first  and  second  persons. 
Only  to  express  ownership  of  a  third  person  is  a  possessive 
suffix  joined  to  nouns. 

§  8.  The  following  comparative  table  illustrates  the  use  of 
the  possessive  suffixes  in  nouns  in  the  Yakut  (one  of  the  Ur2Ll- 
Altaic  languages)  and  the  Yukaghir  languages. 


Si 


41       • 

J 


Yakut 


Min 

BisigT 

En 

Esigi' 

KM 

Kiml^r 


aha'- 

aha'" 

aha'- 

aha- 

aha- 

aha- 


m 

n 

hi't 

ta' 

la'r 


4> 


Met 

Mit 

Tet 

Tit 

Tu'del 

TUtd 


Yukaghir. 


t2« 


eli^e 
eii'e 
eii'e 
eiie 
eife- 
edt^e- 


4> 


1 

C/3 


My  father 
Our  father 
Thy  father 
Your  father 
His  father 
Their  father  an' 
their  Others 


§  9.  Instead  of  the  possessive  suffix  -^gi,  another  form  may 
used  for  the  expression  of  the  idea  of  the  relation  of  ownersh 
between  objects.     For  instance  : 


1.  Met  eiHe  nunu/'gi 

2.  Met  eii* e-nu* ma 

1.  Met  eiti!e'd'&*U'gi 

2.  Met  eii'e-d-aie 


my  father  house  his,  or 
my  father's  house, 
my  father  reindeer  his,  or 
my  father's  reindeer. 


The  second  form  is  similar  to  the  Saxon  form  of  the  genitiw^ 
case  in  the  English  language  (my  father's  house,  my  father 
reindeer) ;  but  it  is  not  the  suffix  of  the  genitive  case  that 
meet  with  here.     Only  for  the  sake  of  euphony  is  d  (or  n)  pi-^  ^ 
between  the  final  vowel  of  the  first  word  and  that  of  the  initi 
in  the  second  word. 

§  10.  The  possessive  suffix  is  used  after  the  third  person  of  ^ 
personal  pronoun, 


>  See  §§  54,  55 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE  m 


tu'del^  numcf'gi  he  house  his  (see  §  8) ,  «  his  house 

tftel*^  numcf'gi  they  house  their  =  their  house, 

but  not  after  a  possessive  pronoun  in  the  third  person, 

Tu'de  (see  §  55)  nu'mo  his  house. 

tUte     (see  §  55)  nu*mo  their  house. 

§  1 1.  In  oblique  cases  the  inflexion  expressing  the  possessive 
element  for  the  third  person  is  introduced  between  the  base  and 
the  case-suffix  (see  §12). 

§  1 2.  The  following  table  of  case-suffixes  may  be  thus  com- 
piled : 

Suflixes. 


Case. 

Indefinite. 

Definite. 

With  the  Possessive  Element 
for  the  Third  Person. 

Nominative 

Base 

k. 

X,  leky  fox  or 

^' 

k', 

jcS  lek',  lox' 

defiin 

Dative 

fUn 

. 

Locative 

ge  or  go 

dege  or  dogo 

Vialis 

gen  or  gon 

—              \  degen  or  dogon 

Ablative 

get*  or  got* 

—              j  deget*^  or  dogot*^ 

Accusative 

e,  /e,  io 

k, 

Xy  lek,  fox  or  ,  gi  or  gefe,  gofoy  degefe 

k', 

X*,  fek',  fox' 

Instrumental 

le  or  lo 

—                dele  or  dolo 

Comitative 

we 

—                den-e 

Comparative  I 

gete,  goto 

—                degete  or  dogoto 

Comparative  II 

tite 

' 

Temporal 

me 

§  13.  The  definite  suffixes  of  the  nominative  and  accusative, 
though  performing  the  function  of  the  definite  article  of  European 
languages,  do  not  exactly  correspond  to  them  in  sense.  They 
are  used  as  a  reply  to  the  questions  Who  or  what  ?  Whom  or 
what  ?  if  the  question  relates  to  the  object,  and  not  to  the  action. 
The  abbreviated  form  k  and  x  is  used  when  the  noun  has  a 
modifier ;  for  instance  : 


Ki'ntek'  kelul'? 

m 

Cordmo-lok'  keflul' 
Omo'ie  coro'mo-x'  keflul' 


JV/io  came  ? 

The  or  a  man  came. 

The  or  a  good  man  came. 


3/8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  190^ 

§  14.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  inflection  le  or  lo  is  nothing  but 
the  case  of  the  verb  to  be  {le), 

Coro'mo-lok^  ktfiul*  The  or  a  man  is  (who)  came. 

See  §§82,  83  with  regard  to  the  form  kelul*. 
§  1 5.  Suffix  ^in  of  the  dative  indicates  : 

1 .  A  movement  in  some  direction,  and  is  used  in  reply  to* 
the  question  Whither  ?  or  To  whom  ? 

Nu'mo'fiin  xonk^  To  the  house  or  home  go. 

Tu'del^  unu'-nin  ko*bei  He  to  the  river  went. 

Met*^  kefnme-fiin  xo*nje  I  to  a  friend  went. 

2.  An  aim,  and  is  used  after  the  question  What  for  ? 

Met  c^je-fiin  kobefiteye  I  for  water  shall  go. 

3.  Limit. 

Tu*del^  li*gemufiin  ^  o*moi  mc^doi         He  until  his  old  age  well  livedo 

§  16.  Suffix  ge  or  go  of  the  locative  is  used  after  the  ques- 
tions  Where  ?  At  whose  house  ?  On  whom  ?  On  what  ? 

Met*^  numo'-ge  modo'ye  I  at  home  sit. 

Met  eiHe  Iva*n-ge  mddoi  My  father  at  Ivan's  lives. 

In  some  cases  the  locative  answers  also  the  question  Whither? 
and  expresses  motion  into  an  object,  while  the  dative  mostly  in- 
dicates motion  toivard  an  object. 

Met''  nu'mofiin  kie'ie  I  to  the  house  came. 

Met^  numd'ge  cduye  I  into  the  house  went. 

§  1 7.  The  vialis  gen  ^  or  gon  has  apparently  been  formed  from 
the  locative  ge.     This  case  indicates  motion  on  the  surface^ 

^ lt\(^tmufiift  =z  lygtl  (old  age)  -\- de  (possessive  clement)  -\- fiin  (suf.  of  the 
dative  case).     Often  /-</«?  changes  into  mu. 

*In  the  grammatical  analysis  of  the  text  in  my  article  in  the  Bulletin  de  r Acad- 
imie  ItupiriaU  des  Sciences  de  Si.  PHersbourg  (1898,  Septembre,  T.  IX,  No.  2,  p. 
173),  I  considered  this  case  suffix  as  an  instrumental  case  ;  but  my  further  study  of  the 
language  in  the  Jesup  Expedition  has  convinced  me  that  I  was  wrong  in  my  former 
definition  of  this  case.  To  avoid  misunderstanding,  I  consider  it  necessary  to  point 
it  out  here. 


r% 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         379 

across,  or  through  an  object,  and  also  ways  and  means  of  getting 
something. 

1 .  Met  d^Ji-gen  kitfie  I  on  water  came  (on  a  boat  or 

raft). 

2.  Tu'dei*  ti'di'd-afii'l-genyu'odei    He  through  the  smoke  opening 

(chimney)  was  looking. 

3.  Tu*del^     nu'meJigeU    yu'o-gen     He  his  axe  under  belt  put. 

moru!cem, 

4.  Met^  ttftul  (y nmun-i</ bil-gen       I  you  over  the  Kolyma  tundra 

ka'udet*  shall  drive. 

5.  Met*  iu'go-degen  kobefiteye  I  along  his  road  shall  go. 

6.  Met    ir'kin     di'ex     efime-gen 

min'me  I  one  reindeer  in  exchange  took. 

§  18.  Suffix  get  or  got  of  the  ablative  indicates  motion  from 
or  out  of  an  object,  and  has  apparently  been  derived  from  the 
locative  by  the  addition  of  /. 

Tu'del  num</get  u^koi  He  out  of  the  house  went. 

Met  eiVe-get  kie'ie  I  from  the  father  came. 

The  ablative  is  also  used  for  the  purpose  of  expressing  the 
degrees  of  comparison  of  adjectives  (see  §41). 

§  19.  The  definite  form  of  the  accusative  is  the  same  as  the 
definite  nominative  (see  §§  13,  14).  This  form  remains  un- 
changed after  all  the  three  persons.  If  used  as  a  direct  object, 
it  is  put  between  the  subject  and  the  transitive  verb,  in  which 
case  the  latter  is  conjugated  in  the  definite  conjugation  (see  §  82). 

1.  Met  eiVe  corc^ molok yu* omle  My  father  a  man  saw. 

2.  Met  elUe  omo'ie  coro'mox  yu'omle  My  father  a  good  man  saw. 

§  20.  The  indefinite  form  of  the  accusative,  serving  as  a  direct 
object  when  the  subject  is  in  the  first  or  second  person,  is  equal 
to  the  indefinite  nominative  ;  that  is,  the  base  of  the  noun.  It 
is  only  when  the  subject  is  in  the  third  person  that  a  special  e, 
le,  or  lo  is  joined  to  the  direct  object  following  it. 

Met*  coro'mo  yu'o  I  a  man  saw. 

Tet  c^ie  yu'omik*  Thou  a  reindeer  sawest. 

Tu'del*  cor</mO'lo  yu'om  He  a  man  saw. 

Met  eiVe  cCie-le  yu'om  My  father  a  reindeer  saw. 


38o 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 


§  21.  It  is  to  be  observed  that  the  third  person,  as  a  rule, 
plays  a  peculiar  part  in  this  language.  To  point  out  one  of 
these  peculiarities :  the  transitive  verb  to  give  is  expressed  by 
one  word  {kei,  "  to  give  ")  when  the  indirect  object  is  in  the  first 
or  second  person,  and  by  an  entirely  different  word  {tafdi^  "to 
give  ")  if  the  object  is  in  the  third  person  ;  for  instance : 


1.  Met*  teftin  efye  kei 

2.  Tet*  me' tin  if  ye  kefimik* 

3.  EtVe  meftin  efyele  kefim 

4.  Tu'del*  teftin  efyele  keim 

and 

1.  Met'  tu'din  e'ye  ta'di 

2.  Tet'  tu'din  e'ye  tadVmik' 

3.  Tudel'  tu'din  e'yele  ta'dim 

4.  Mit  anVje  met  eiVefiin  efyeie 

ta'dim 


I  thee  a  bow  gave. 
Thou  me  a  bow  gavest. 
Father  me  a  bow  gave. 
He  you  a  bow  gave. 


I  him  a  bow  gave. 
Thou  him  a  bow  gavest. 
He  him  a  bow  gave. 
Our  chief  to  my  father  a  bow 
gave. 


§  22.  In  the  same  manner,  it  is  only  to  express  ownership  of 
a  third  person  that  the  object  has  a  possessive  element,  which 
is  expressed  by  gi  in  the  nominative ;  gi,  ge^  or  dege  in  the  ac- 
cusative; and  de  in  all  other  oblique  cases.  The  possessive 
element  is  placed  between  the  base  and  the  case-suffix  (see 

§12). 


nu*mO'fiin     To  the  house  ; 
numd-ge       In  the  house  ; 


nu'mo-dehin     To  his  house. 
nu'mo'dege      In  his  house. 


§  23.  It  is  very  likely  that  de  is  an  abbreviation  of  the  posses- 
sive pronoun  tu'de  (see  §  SS)  **  his." 

§  24.  The  element  de  indicates  that  an  object  in  the  oblique 
case  belongs  either  to  the  subject  if  it  is  in  the  third  person,  to 
the  direct  object  if  it  is  in  the  third  person,  or  to  some  third 
person  ;  for  instance  : 


1 .  Met  eii*e  nn'mo-de-get  u'kol 

2.  Tet'  viit  ani'je  nu' mo- dege 

me'tul*  nugte'mik^ 


My  father  of  his  house  came 
out. 

Thou  our  chief  in  his  house  me 
wilt  find,  /.  e. ,  thou  wilt  find 
me  in  our  chiefs  house. 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE   YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         38 1 

3.    Tu'dei'  me^tkele  fu'em^  met*  He  called  me,  I  into  his  house 

nu'modege  cc^uye  went. 

§  25.  The  inflection  ge  of  the  accusative  is  used  in  a  word 
constituting  a  direct  object  of  the  subject  in  the  third  person,  if 
the  direct  object  belongs  to  the  first  or  second  person,  or  to  the 
subject  proper. 

Examples  without  the  element  ge  : 

1.  Met*^  tet*  mofgo  min'  I  thy  cap  took. 

2.  7>/'  met*  mc^go  mi'n-mik*  Thou  my  cap  tookest. 

3.  Tu'dei*  mdgO'lo  mVjum  He  a  cap  took. 

Examples  with  the  element  ge : 

1 .  Tu'del*  met*  mo'go-gele  mVjum  He  took  my  cap. 

2.  Eii'e  tet*  m&go-gele  mi'/um  Father  took  thy  cap. 

3.  Eii'e  tu*de  mdgo-gele  mi*jum  Father  his  cap  took. 

§  26.  The  inflection  dege^  or  deu  in  its  abbreviated  form,  is 
introduced  to  indicate  that  the  direct  object  belongs  not  to  the 
subject,  but  to  some  third  person. 

Met  eii  *e  ydndodege^  met  iaia  My  father  when  he  slept  ( in  his 

mdgodegele  (or  mdgodeuie)  mHjum        sleep)  my  elder  brother  his 

(/.  ^.,  father's)  cap  took. 

§  27.  The  suffix  of  the  instrumental  case,  /r,  signifies  an 
instrument  or  a  means.  Though  the  indefinite  accusative  has 
the  same  suffix,  le,  the  two  seem  to  be  of  a  different  origin. 
The  instrumental  suffix  Ic  is  used  indifferently,  no  matter  what 
person  the  subject  may  be. 

1.  Met*  ti'pe-le  xa'rte  I  with  a  spade  dig. 

2.  Tet  d'ie-ie^  kie'iek*  Thou  earnest  on  reindeer. 

§  28.  The  suffix  of  the  comitative  case  ive,  is  used  in  place 
of  the  preposition  ivith. 

Met  eH*e-fve  kie'ie  I  with  father  came. 

Tu^del  ettre-dene  mddoi  He  with  his  father  lives. 


^  A^  'e-U  is,  properly  speaking,  in  the  singular  number  ;  but  in  such  cases  the 
singular  is  frequently  used  instead  of  the  plural. 


382 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 


§  29.  The  suffix  of  the  comparative  I  case  gete,  signifies 
"  as  compared  with  "  ;  for  instance  : 


Met  ei^e-gete  tu*dd*^  ic^moi 


With  my  father  compared  he  i: 
big  (/.  e,,  bigger). 


§  30.  The  suffix  of  the   comparative   II  case,  ti'te,  means 
like  ;  for  example  : 

Tu^del^ met eH^e-tH tee! rie cord mox^     He   like  my  father  is  a  poor- 
man. 

§  31.  Temporalis  me  or  mo  changes  a  noun  into  an  adverb 
of  time : 


Pojerxd     day ; 

pojerxd -mo     in 

the  daytime. 

Ogdye       to-morrow ; 

dgoyel'tne        in  the  morning. 

Yu'ole        evening ; 

yu'oie-me         in  the  evening. 

§  32.    Complete  Table  ( 

DF  Declension  of  a  Noun 

Case. 

Indefinite 
Suffixes. 

Definite  Suffixes. 

With  a  Possessive 
Element 

Nominative 

Emtf  i-mother 

Emeik^;  Emeilek^ 

Emdigi 

Dative 

EmdifUn 

EmdidefUn 

Locative 

Emtfige 

Emdidege 

Vialis 

Emtfigen 

Emdidegen 

Ablative 

Eme'iget* 

Eme'ideget* 

Accusative 

Eme'ile 

Emeik^;  Emeilek*.  Emdigi ;  Em^i- 

gele;  EmdideuU 

{^EmdidegeU) 

Instrumental 

Emdile 

Emdidele 

Comitative 

Erne' in- e 

Emdiden-e 

Comparative  I 

Eme'igete 

— 

Emdidegete 

Comparative  II 

Emdi-ti'te 

Temporalis 

§  33.  Plural  Number. —  The  plural  is  formed  by  the  addition 
of  pe  or  /«/*.  It  is  very  difficult  to  define  by  a  general  rule 
when  one  of  these  forms  should  be  used.  Most  nouns  receive 
the  addition,  now  of  one,  now  of  the  other,  of  these  two  forms. 
For  instance,  coro'mo  (man)  may  be  coro'mo-pe  and  cor</ mo-pub 
in  the  plural.     Generally  pe  is  preferred  after  a  consonant  and 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE   YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         383 

a  long  vowel, — polu't-pe  (old  men),  —  and  put  after  a  short 
vowel,  —  e'mje'pul*  (younger  brothers  or  sisters,  or  both). 

§  34.  The  plain  suffix  pc,  or  the  double  one  pepul^  is  joined 
to  the  following  words  in  plural : 

Singular.  Plural. 

koi       boy,  fellow,  young  man  koipe  and  koipepul^ 

pat        young  woman  pa!ipe  and  paHpepul*' 

ke'nme  friend  kenne'pe  *  and  kenne' pepul*' 

tdo        child  uc^rpe '  and  uifrpepul^ 

K'aipe  and  pa'ipe  are  used  as  if  they  were  in  the  singular. 
They  say,  for  instance,  i'rkin  pai  and  i'rkin  pa'ipe^  one  young 
woman. 

§  35.  It  is  quite  likely  that  pe  is  a  suffix  of  the  now  extinct 
-dual  number.  For  example,  eti'e-pe  (fathers)  means  either 
father  and  mother  together  {i,  e,,  parents)  or  the  father  and  his 
elder  brother ;  *  while  eci'e-put  means  many  fathers.  I  have 
not  found  any  more  traces  to  confirm  my  supposition.  With 
regard  to  the  above-mentioned  double  suffixes  for  the  expres- 
sion of  plurality,  I  have  noticed  that,  when  these  words  are 
preceded  by  a  numeral  which  does  not  exceed  5,  one  suffix  is 
joined  to  them,  and,  if  it  exceeds  5,  a  double  suffix  is  added ;  for 
instance : 

yan  pa*i'pe  three  young  women,  and 

ma' Igiyan  pa'i-pepul^  six  young  women. 

§  36.  The  element  expressing  plurality  is  placed  in  the  nomi- 
native and  all  oblique  cases,  between  the  base  and  the  other 
suffixes.  A'de-pul'^in,  to  the  reindeer  (plural),  and  dce-ptd-de- 
ftin,  to  his  reindeer  (plural).  We  have  thus  the  following 
order:  Base  -|-  clement  of  plurality  4-  possessive  element  4- 
case-suffix. 

§  37.  Very  often  the  element  pe,  when  preceding  another 
suffix,  drops  the  e\  for  instance,  a'ce-p-ki  (his  reindeer),  instead 
of  a'ce-pe-gi,  g  changing  into  k  when  preceded  by  /. 

I  m  followed  by/  changes  into  n, 

'  r  is  put  between  the  diphthong  and  /  for  euphony. 

'The  elder  brother  of  the  father  is  called  comd^cU,  that  is,  the  big  father. 


384  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

§  38.  The  Yukaghir  language  has  no  grammatical  distinc- 
tion of  gender.  With  reference  to  people,  if  there  are  no 
special  names  to  indicate  sex  —  as,  for  instance,  eci'e  (father) 
and  emeH  (mother),  po'luV  (old  man,  husband),  teri'ke  (old 
woman,  wife)  —  the  words  koi,  koyo'jc^  or  a'dit  (fellow,  man), 
or  pai,  payo^je,  or  ma!rxil'  (woman,  girl)  are  prefixed  for  that 
purpose. 

Koydje-d-e! mje  younger  brother  {emje  =  younger 

Pay oh'd'i^ mj€  younger  sister  brother,  or  sister) 

A' duo  (insteaid  of  A' di'/'u'o)  son  ^  K•l/^^ 

Ma'rxi'd'Uo  daughter  v    ^  =*  ) 

To  indicate  the  sex  of  animals,  nouns  are  preceded  by 
(/nceftofe^  for  the  male,  and  mo'iHoJe^  for  the  female. 

(y  nieflofe-caxa! le  male  fox ;     md ifiofe-caxa* le  female  fox 

The  male  of  the  wild  reindeer  is  called  simply  (/nde^  ordntie, 
and  that  of  the  elk,  pie'je.  The  female  of  the  wild  reindeer  is 
i'rogoje^  and  that  of  the  elk,  n'oye. 

§  39.  The  suffix  for  the  augmentative  form  of  nouns  is  tdgty 
and  for  the  diminutive,  di^e,  Nu'mo-tige  (large  house),  nu'mo- 
die  (small  house). 

The  Adjective 

§  40.  The  adjective  has  no  special  form.  Instead  of  it,  par- 
ticiples and  other  verbal  forms  (see  §§  80,  84)  are  used.  All 
forms  taking  the  place  of  adjectives  are  used  as  modifiers,  put 
before  the  modified  word,  and  do  not  undergo  any  changes. 

Omdie  cordmox  good  man. 

h'tneye-d-  tgdyi  *  long  thong. 

§  41.  Degrees  of  comparison. 

I.  The  comparative  degree  is  formed  by  means  of  the  abla* 
tive  of  one  of  the  nouns  compared  and  a  verbal  form  in  the 
third  person  ;  for  instance  : 

*  Generator  or  provider. 

2  Keeper. 

^  r/  is  inserted  for  euphony. 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE  385 


Met  eh'e-get'  tu'del'  lUgei, 


my  father  from  he  is  old ;  that 
is,  he  is  older  than  my  father. 


2.  The  superlative  is  formed  by  means  of  the  ablative  of  one 
of  the  nouns  compared  preceded  by  the  pronoun  du'mut*  (all). 

Cumut  odu'peget^  *  tu'del'  Wgei^     all  the  Yukaghir  from  he   is 

old  ;  that  is  the  oldest. 

Numerals 
§  42.  The  following  are  the  principal  cardinal  numbers : 


Independent. 

1.  Irki*ei 

2.  A'taxloi 

3.  Ya'loi 

4.  YaHoxloi     (three     and 

one) 

5.  Tn'gan'boi 

6.  MaHgiyaloi^  (two  times 

three) 

7.  Furki'oi  (one  above,  one 

more) 

8.  Ma* Igiyiloxloi^    (two 

times  four) 

9.  KuniWkiUJeoi  (ten,  one 

missing) 
10.  Ku'nel' 


Used  as  Modifiers. 
Frkin  coro^mox  (one  man). 

A'taxun  "     two     men. 

Yan  "      three     " 


Ye'iokun 
Fn-gawbofe 

MaHgiyan 

Furki'yin 


**      four      " 
it      five        *' 


ii 


ti 


SIX 


seven 


a 


it 


Mdlgiyelokun        **      eight     ** 

Kuni*  rkiUjeoje      "      nine      " 
Kuni'yin  **      ten        ** 


§  43.  Judging  from  the  above  list  of  numerals,  one  might 
draw  the  conclusion  that  the  Yukaghir  system  of  numeration 
is  not  quinary,  as  it  is  with  the  Chukchee,  Eskimo,  and  most  of 
the  Indians,  but  tertiary.  But  it  should  be  pointed  out,  on  the 
other  hand,  that  in-'ganboi  (five),  as  it  seems  to  me,  contains 
the  word  xa!tvbo  (palm,  wrist,  i,  e,,  five  fingers)  since  x  pre- 
ceded by  7V  changes  into  its  corresponding  consonant  g;  in 


>  Instead  of  odu^lpeget*^  from  odul*^  Yukaghir. 

^ Ma'lgi  or  Malgil*^  means  joint.     N'e^malgii*  (all  the  joints  together)  means  a 

•  •  • 

year.    Ma^lgiyahij  malgiyeloxloi,  mean  joint-three,  joint-four,  1.  >.,  each  one  con- 
tains  three  or  four. 


AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  7 — a  S. 


386  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [w.  s.,  7,  1905 

equals  wi  or  we  (together).  And  if  this  be  so,  the  Yukaghir 
system  of  numeration  has  two  bases.  Unfortunately,  I  have 
been  unable  so  far  to  discover  the  meaning  of  the  word 
ku'nel*  (10). 

§  44.  All  the  rest  of  the  tens  are  composed  by  multiplying 
10  {ku'nel')  by  the  number  of  tens  which  precede  the  ten.  Thus, 
twenty  =  a' taxun-ku' nel*  (two  tens),  sixty  =  ma' Igiyan-ku' nef 
(six  tens),  etc. 

Units  are  put  after  the  tens  with  the  addition  of  the  post- 
position budi'  (on  top,  over  and  above) ;  for  instance  : 

II.  Kuni'rkibudU  =  ku* nel-irkin-budi  (ten,  one  over). 

34.    Ya'nkunelyHokunbudi  (three  tens,  four  over). 

76.  Purk^ yinku^ nelmalgiya* nbudU  (seven  tens  and  six  on  top). 

§  45.  The  independent  cardinals  are  verbal  forms  in  the  third 
person,  positive  form,  singular,  present-preterite  tense,  indefinite 
conjugation  of  intransitive  verbs  (see  §  7S).  They  may  be  in- 
flected like  verbs,  but  not  like  nouns.  For  instance,  to  the 
question,  "  How  many  ?  "  you  reply,  **  Yalai  (*'  three") ;  but  to 
the  question,  "  How  many  men  ?  "  the  answer  is,  **  Yan  cart/- 
tnox"''  ("three  men"). 

The  plural  ^  number,  present-preterite  tense,  will  be  : 

Mit ya* loyeili  we  three  are,  or  we  three  have  been. 

tit ya* loyemet^  you  three  are,  or  you  three  have  been. 
ti* tel  ya! lofii  they  three  are 

(three  of  them),  or  they  three  have  been. 

The  future  tense,  plural : 

Mit  yaHoteili  we  three  shall  be. 

tit  ya* loteyemet^  you  three  will  be. 

tt* tel ya* loHitei  they  three  will  be. 

§  46.  Cardinal  modifiers  used  as  adjectives  remain  unchanged, 
only  the  words  modified  by  them  undergo  case-inflections. 

§  47.  There  are  no  Yukaghir  words  for  numbers  above  a  hun- 
dred.   They  used  to  say  ku'nel'-kuhiel*  (ten  tens)  for  hundred  : 

1  It  is  plain  that  there  can  be  no  singular. 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE   YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         387 

but  now  they  say  iito^x  (the  Russian  std).  The  Russian  word 
for  thousand  {t/sya^d)  has  also  been  adopted  by  them ;  but  they 
pronounce  it  ti'cete, 

§48.  Ordinal  Numbers 


Independent. 

As  Modifiers  or  Attributive. 

Theist 

a^Hnume^ 

a'Hnume'le           coro'mox*  (ma 

•'   2d 

a'taxlecki 

a'taxlecte                      * 

"  3d 

yc^lmecki 

yaHtnecte                        ' 

**   4th 

yaHaxUcki 

yaHaxlecte                     * 

"    5th 

fn-ganbecki 

i'fi'gan'becte                  * 

"    6th 

ma'lgiydlmecki 

• 

ma*  Igiydlmecte               ' 

'•    7th 

purkHyecki 

• 

purki^yecte                    ' 

"   8th 

ma' Igiydlexlecki 

ma!  IgiydlexUcte             ' 

"   9th 

kunfrkiU/eocki 

kunH  rkiUjeocte              * 

"    loth 

kumfUcki 

kuneHecte                      * 

"    nth 

kufWrkibudicki 

kunfrkibudicte              * 

"    20th 

a^taxun-kunilecki 

a'taxunkunilecte           ' 

"     22d 

ku*  nel'dtaoculbudieki 

ku*  neldtaxulbudicte       * 

etc. 

etc. 

§  49.  Ordinal  numbers  are  derived  from  the  cardinals  partly 
by  means  of  verbal  suffixes.  C*  is  the  suffix  which  changes  a 
transitive  verb  into  a  causative  (see  §  97) ;  it  (instead  of  ^*,  since 
g"  preceded  by  c  changes  into  k)  is  the  possessive  suffix  of  the 
nominative  case  (see  §  9) ;  and  U  (in  place  of  de,  d  changing 
into  /  after  c)  is  the  suffix  of  the  conditional  mode  (see  §  87). 

§  50.  Distributive  numerals  : 

a'taxlonut^  by  two  Hn^gan-bonut^  by  five,  etc. 

Nu  is  the  suffix  of  the  iterative  form  of  the  verb  (see  §  103,) 
/  is  the  suffix  of  the  verbal  adverb  (see  §  115). 
§  51.  Iterative  numerals  : 


IrkVje  once 


ataxli'Je  twice 


ydii'Je  thrice,  etc. 


§52.  Fractions.     Ont-YidXi  =  Eimunde,     The  rest  are  com- 


^aHnume  means  ''at  Hrst,  in  the  beginning  "  ;  aHnumflej  ** initial,  first."     This 
is  the  only  ordinal  nomber  that  b  not  formed  from  a  cardinal. 


388  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

posed  of  the  attributive  ordinals  with  the  addition  of  the  pos- 
sessive suffix  gi;  for  instance  : 

Yalmectegi^^  ^. 

§  53.  Collective  numerals: 

ataxiot*  two  together  yalot*  three  together  yaloxiot*  four  together,  etc. 

Pronouns 

§  54.  Personal  pronouns  :  met*,  I ;  tet,  thou ;  tu'del\  he  ;  mif, 
we ;  /!/*,  you  ;  ti'tel*,  they.  The  gender  is  not  indicated  in  the 
third  person.  The  compound  personal  pronouns  are  formed  by 
annexing  the  post-position  ejHe  (self)  to  the  personal  pronouns  : 
Met-eji'e  (myself),  iet-eji'e  tud-eji'e,  etc. 

§  55.  Possessive  modifying  pronouns  for  the  first  and  second 
persons  are  the  same  as  the  personal,  for  instance,  Met  eH'e  (my 
father);  while  the  third  is  tu'de  in  the  singular  and  ti'te  in  the 
plural.  The  possessive  modifying  pronouns  do  not  change. 
The  following  are  the  absolute  possessive  pronouns : 

me'ile  mine  te'lle  thine  Tu'dele  his,  hers 

mPl/e  ours  tTlie  yours  tfteie  theirs 

Absolute  possessive  pronouns  assume  case-suffixes. 

§  56.  Demonstrative  pronouns  :  7}*^,  this ;  and  tail,  that. 
These  two  pronouns  are  used  only  as  modifiers  before  nouns, 
and  remain  unchanged  in  most  cases.  After  verbal  nouns  end- 
ing in  /*  (see  §  84)  taft  is  joined  as  a  post-position,  and  the  case- 
suffixes  are  joined  to  it,  while  the  verbal  noun  remains  un- 
changed. For  instance,  yu'ol-tafiy  that  one  who  saw ;  li'gel^tafi, 
that  old  one.  Tafi  rather  corresponds  here  to  the  relative  pro- 
nouns which,  who. 

Tu'bon  (this)  and  To! bun  (that)  are  mostly  independent  pro- 
nouns, like  the  German  dcrjcnige,  and  assume  case-affixes.  But 
in  some  cases  they  are  used  as  modifiers,  and  are  declined  nev- 
ertheless (see  the  text). 

§  57.  Interrogative  pronouns  : 

kin  who,  le^tne  what,  xa'mun  how  many  (much)  and  nu'mun  which. 
Kin  and  ie'me  are  declined. 


JOCHILSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         389 

§  58.  Indefinite  pronouns  : 

yeny  ye!nUk^^  ye^nbon  another  iu'mu^  h^mut^  all 

file  some,  certain      t/nmun  every 

Of  these  pronouns,  ye'nbon  and  i'Ue  (if  not  used  as  modifiers) 
are  declined. 

(/nmun  is  used  as  a  post-position;  core/ mo-onmun,  man 
every. 

§  59.  There  are  no  relative  pronouns.  Verbal  nouns  ending 
in  ban  (see  §112)  are  used  instead  of  them  (see  also  §  56). 

§  60.  The  table  on  following  page  illustrates  the  declension  of 
personal  and  other  pronouns. 

§61.  With  the  exception  of  a  few  phonetic  peculiarities,  the 
case-suffixes  of  pronouns  are  the  same  as  those  of  nouns. 

Me' tin  is  used  instead  of  me't^tn,  since  n  cannot  follow  t, 

Me'tn'e,  in  place  of  me'tn-e,  since  /  and  n  blend  into  one  nasal 

V 

sound,  In, 

Tub(/dek\  instead  of  Tub</nlek\  etc. 

Special  attention  should  be  called  to  the  accusative  indefinite 
of  the  personal  pronouns,  first  and  second  persons,  singular  as 
well  as  plural  number.  The  accusative  indefinite  of  these  pro- 
nouns has  a  special  suffix  for  the  direct  object  following  a  sub- 
ject in  the  first  and  second  person.  In  nouns,  this  form  is  identi- 
cal with  the  nominative  indefinite  (see  §  20).     For  example  : 

Met'  te^tul'  kudifdef  I  thee  shall  kill. 

7>/'  me'tul*  ka!udetmik'  ?  thou  me  wilt  conduct  ? 

but 

Tu'del'  me'tkele  ka'udem  he  me  conducted. 

§62.  The  possessive  absolute  pronouns,  Me' tie,  etc.,  assume 
the  suffix  of  plurality,  ////',  which  in  oblique  cases  is  put  between 
the  case-suffix  and  the  base  : 

MHilepul^         ours  Mi^ tle-pul-hin         to  ours. 

§  63.  Tu'bon,  To! bun.  Tan,  kin,  le^me,  yehibon,  n'ilgi, 
x(/dimei',  assume  the  suffix  pe  or  pul*  for  the  plural : 


\ 


390 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 


a 

5j  1  1  ^^^4j  ^ 

s»    '    «5  '^  ^  ^  •5  <: 

\»     \,  \,  X  X  X  \» 

i     ^  s  s  s  s  s 

ii 

^.  ^.  ^.  •^.  •^.  •^.  ^.      ^.  ^.  i{.  5{.  ^.  ^. 

to  §  60) 

fi^     fl^     d^     H^     H^     (t^     (t^     d^ 

1 1 1^1 

CO 

§ 

1 

0 

.s 

4i« 

•^    «    ^    ?  ?    0    ^ 

•^  "^  -^  -^  It* 

§ 

CO 

•J 
Q 

1 

1 

^  ^  ^  •IJ'-I'^  ■I' 

5  ^  ^  ^   «  ^  ^   5 

5      555 

0 

U 
•J 

pq 

1^ 

S  :ii  :ii  :i;  :ii  :ij  :i;  :i; 

^^ 

••^  ^   v»   \>   \5  -Sk   \> 

S        ^  S  S 

no   a>  '^     • 
.  c  «5   rj 

S!  S  0  0 

1 

1 

M 

Nom.  indef. 

'*     def. 
Dative 
locative 
Vialis 
Ablative 
Accusative 

indefinite 

.s 


s 

. 

■s 

§ 

•§ 

V 

% 

« 

M 

•  PW 

•« 

^^ 

1 

•8 

c« 

.s 

(s 

"2 

JS 

tj 

"i 

•^ 

t 

JK 

1 

:^ 

^ 

tj 

\ 

S 

H 

§ 

% 

•^ 

V 

N 

••• 

{5 

« 

•« 

Q 

<. 

<: 

1 

V 

•  pi 

.^" 

V 

^ 

^ 

K 

•  v4 

•^ 

^^ 

•^ 

e 

»rm 

V 
^ 

M 

^^ 

>— "^ 

*s 

\l 

•^ 

K 

.^ 

•  ^ 

K 

^ 

V 

•0 

<s 

g 

^ 

« 

V 

*M 

e 

^^ 

3 

"8 

g. 

a 

^— ^ 

'i 

•>^ 

TS 

5: 

M 

^^^ 

,>• 

yj 

S 

^ 

•^ 

0 

pi* 

^*-^ 

4 

'^ 

"V* 

> 

S 

•<; 

JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE   YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         39I 

Tabu'n-pe  ke!lfU  Those  came. 

Ki^n-pe-gef  kelmef  f  From  whom  (you)  came? 

Ke^ lul-tdH'pe  fl  k^fd  Arrived  those  here  are,  or  those 

that  arrived  are  here. 

Tafi  is  one  of  the  forms  that  are  used  as  substitutes  for  relative 
pronouns  (see  §  56). 

The  Verb 

§  64.  While  almost  all  the  noun-bases  are  derivatives  of  ver- 
bal forms,  the  bases  of  verbs  are  in  most  cases  disyllabic  or 
monosyllabic  roots,  frequently  consisting  of  one  vowel.  For 
instance,  d  expresses  the  conception  of  "doing";  /?,  that  of 
being  bom ;  0,  to  draw,  to  get  from  the  bottom.  But  nouns 
can,  in  their  turn,  become  verbs  again  by  means  of  the  suffixes 
te  (for  transitive  verbs)  and  de  (for  intransitive  verbs).  For  ex- 
ample :  &ji  (from  o^  to  drawn,  and  o'je^  to  drink),  water ;  i^'te^ 
to  supply  some  one  with  water ;  nu'mOy  a  house ;  numo'-de,  to 
be  with  a  house. 

§  65.  While  the  nominative  indefinite  always  constitutes  the 
base  of  a  noun,  that  of  verbs  does  not  always  coincide  with  one 
and  the  same  form.  The  first  person,  singular,  present-preterite, 
indefinite  conjugation,  is  the  base  of  transitive  verbs,  while  that 
of  the  intransitive  coincides  with  the  third  person,  singular,  of  the 
negative  form,  present -preterite,  indefinite  conjugation  (see  §  75> 
table  of  conjugations). 

§  66.  Verbs  have  only  two  tenses,  the  present-preterite  or 
perfect  and  the  future  or  imperfect.  The  action  may  be  either 
completed  or  yet  to  be  completed.  The  performance  of  an 
action  consists  of  a  continual  succession  of  moments,  every  one 
of  which  appears  in  a  given  moment  with  reference  to  the  act- 
ing person,  either  as  past  or  future.* 

Met*  kudefde  I  have  killed,  and  I  kill. 

Met'  kude'det'  I  shall  kill. 


*  The  present-preterite  is  also  to  be  found  in  the  Gilyak  language  ( L.  J.  Stem- 
berg,  Material  for  the  Study  of  the  Gilyak  Language  and  Folk- Lore  [Bull,  of  the 
Imp.  Academy  of  Sciences,  Vol.  VIII,  No.  4,  p.  422,  November  1900,  St.  Peters- 
burg]). 


392  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOL  OGIST  [n.  s.,  7, 1905 

Mode 

§  67.  The  following  modes  may  be  enumerated  :  imperative 
indicative,  optative,  conjunctive,  conditional,  supine,  perfective, 
potential,  evidential,  inchoative. 

§  68.  The  Yukaghir  language  has  no  infinitive  mode.    It  is 
replaced  by  the  supine.     But  when  naming  an  action  for  illus- 
tration, I  translate  the  English  infinitive  by  giving  the  base  of 
the  Yukaghir  verb  (see  §  65). 

§  69.  Before  proceeding  to  explain  the  formation  of  voices 
and  other  derivative  forms,  which  are  so  numerous  in  the  Yuka- 
ghir language,  and  which  are  called  "  aspects "  in  the  Slav 
languages,  or  as  the  well-known  Russian  philologist,  NekrassofT, 
calls  them  "  degrees  of  action,"  I  shall  point  out  how  the  ver- 
bal bases  are  being  inflected  according  to  modes,  since  all  verb 
bases,  no  matter  of  what  voice  or  degree  of  action,  are  inflected 
in  the  same  manner  with  reference  to  mode. 

§  70.  Every  verb  has  two  forms  of  conjugation,  the  definite 
and  the  indefinite. 

§  71.  The  indefinite  has  three  forms  in  the  indicative  mode,  a 
positive,  a  negative,  and  an  interrogative. 

§  72.  The  imperative  mode  has  two  forms,  a  positive  and  a 
negative. 

§  73.  The  forms  of  the  imperative  mode  are  the  same  for 
transitive  and  for  intransitive  verbs. 

§  74.  The  indicative  mode  has  different  forms  for  transitive 
and  for  intransitive  verbs. 

§  75.  The  following  tables  illustrate  the  indefinite  conjuncti^^o 
of  transitive  and  intransitive  verbs. 


jocHKLSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         393 


o 
o 

a 

H 

H 

*^ 


• 

,JI< 

M 

0 

> 

0 

•v' 

N^ 

••• 

a 

• 

/-N 

^     1> 

«{ 

0     ^ 

► 

to  4^ 

'O 

J3 

*S3 

q 

1 

»  (to 
mew 

a 

11 

^8 

• 

4^ 

.0 

0 

4-» 

>-^ 

•^ 

0 

•«-» 

N^ 

•SC^ 

\*j:3 

•^-i< 

^ 

• 

4> 

2 

0 

4-» 

N»^ 

• 

•s 

s 

S 

• 

4> 

> 

^ 

0 

4-# 

v-x 

>*« 

•>4 

1 

K 

V    \) 

JS 

:<>«  .^ 

-    Si 

«« 

• 

:ii:^ 

H 

*i> 

fl 

S( 

^ 

« 

£ 

1      1 

1" 

.^  .^ 
•^  ^ 

•^•^ 

^^ 

.S 

^^ 

1 

b 

S< 

K 

^ 

§ 

1      , 

««5  ««5 

1      1 

.«.« 

fc    t 

^     ^ 

•••  **.♦ 

«>•    •« 

S  § 

S    S 

« 

*•      S> 

St 

^•^ 

^ii 

1      • 

<:  <: 

<:<: 

•sJ.  *Sc 

I       I 


4e  «( 


\»   "S»     >•     ••*   «K»   'C 
2*    \)   J!t       2»  ••».  'ill 


IS  5 


M      W      to       M      N      to     ,       M 


N     to 


•« 


•S» 


M     w     to 


1$  « 


xBinSais  'i^ni^    -j^inSais  'i^inj^ 


•uuoj  9ai;tso^ 


•UUOjJ  9ApBS9J^ 


« 

•^ 

^ 

Si 

•*» 

•*:• 

;t 

;t 

« 
•^ 

Si 

Si 

« 

K 

•^ 

s 

H 

H 

Si 

Si 

:ii 

is 

% 

c 

%i 

H 

^ 

"^ 

V 

V 

V 

s 

*?o 

^ 

1 

•$ 

•§ 

X 

\, 

^ 

•§ 

^ 

;^ 

-^ 

•§ 

>• 
^ 

%) 

\) 

•?« 

^ 

1 

g 

^> 

\> 

•}<> 

^ 

V 

<: 

•          •         • 

M   w   to 

•    •    • 

M    N    «0 

•j^inSais  'iBini^ 

UUOJ  3AqiS0^ 

\ 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


^ 

5. 

i 

:^i. 

^i 

,    i. 

- 

:?s. 

** 

^^?« 

s 

■«« 

.■?.■?.■> 

**■? 

>>4 

■5^^ 

■li 

.■?*s 

-a-ii; 

-;  -5  ■. 

■^■5>; 

■i-i-a 

» '5  3 

^i  a 

. 

-'I 

1 

3. 

i 

^  s. 

^ 

o  «. 

" 

til 

"a  ■^■5 

lis 

VJ1 

■51 1 

H   *i  H 

"Cs  "i 

H    >1    « 

HUH 

~-¥ 

'i: 

5^ 

, 

it 

.  i 

a 

?l* 

t 

%i 

?.?... 

«?.* 

■«■?■* 

■?^^ 

Ei 

■«■?.« 

i 

SiSii 

^5:5! 

Jii5_ 

^^^ 

JtS* 

■Ji-iJ-ii 

Is 

■jl 

li^ 

tl. 

?i? 

iil 

■«-s-^ 

■«-«-S 

^%% 

Ill 

■S-«-J 

■s-4-4 

\ 

^^^ 

^%% 

34l 

%^% 

%^^ 

■1 

4^^ 

■4-i-4 

^^^ 

•a^.5 

-84-8 

?  s 

i| 

■f.'^v 

■?  -1  ? 

e  K  c 

.1. 

ill 

>>5 

■i^ii 

Vil 

rri 

;J.-i,S. 

L«.,' .« 

i|g 

888   -i^-i 

"i'i'^ 

188 

888 

« 

•jl 

a. 

■|l« 

% 

1"^l 

?  E 

ssS 

^S'*? 

?M 

■5-fl 

cii:  Ji: 

i:<;i: 

■i^i: 

ifed; 

<:=:«: 

M    ti    ^ 

-    n   M      -   »   .^ 

-^  «  "  1  -  «  " 

M      «      M 

-jeinaais  -IBJnij  :  -jBinSnis  ■JBJnid    jtinSnis  -[Tunid  | 

■ULIOJ  SApiSOJ 

uuoj 

AfjESaN 

■imoj 

Soijaiut  1 

JOCHSUON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YVKAGHJR  LANGUAGE         395 


^ 


S 


••»  •♦•  •*»     .1   ••»  •%» 

■^a>i    3  a  a 


I. 


:-3 


I 


-« 


IS 


S    ^  ^    Sk.  ^  *•** 

^    ^    ^        ♦•  ^  ^ 

;t  a  ;t    ;t  ;t       a 


•^ 

?»  V 


<»  '«5  < 


H  h  h 


^     <(     IS 

h  H  H 


I 


< 


I 


I 


•1^    « 


5   ?s^    ^   ^"^  ^ 


K   «   <( 
H  H  H 


*V»  »N*   '•5      »C*   *V* 


•s^ 


I 


>    *V»  >»  *V»   2 

^  .^»  ^  .^»    > 

^  «w  0>  •'^^   •>» 

•v»  "s*           "N* 

%»  %»            V 


I 


I 

I 

•4 


I 


o 

**»»  •s*  •s*      "s*  "s*  "s* 


► 
•a 

g 


s  -^ 


a 


•§ 


^ 

•§ 


^ 


^ 

•^ 
^ 
^ 


11 


I 


5 
•^ 
^ 

» 
-^ 

•i 


O 


•-ft 
I 


5 
•« 

^ 


•i 


^-5    6 


•I 


I 


&>•«  > 


.^ 


^ 


:;,  «5i  «5{  'Si  -St  iS 

^11  III 

•«  •    •  •    •    « 

S  S  S  ^   S  S 


I 


'Si 


5 

I 


•ft 

I 


•^ 


I 

a 


« 


;l  -S  ^ 


<^  ^  »»: 

>  >  *? 


^ 


•   •   •     •    •    • 


^ 

I 


M 


I 


to 


■1 


<» 

V 


I 


to 


UUOJ  9APbS9^ 


si  5 

•^  d^  (4^ 


^1 


I 


«.     "s 


I  I       I  ^     • 

•  •         •               •        • 

l!t  St    l!t       U    ^ 

'v*  >•*  •%  '5  ''- 

i  s  s   s  s     s 


"- 


r^ 


>  -ii 


.    >5    T      >     . 


I 


M     N     to      M     N  f<^ 

'UUOJ  9ApBS0JJ3^III 


396  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

§  76.  The  following  remarks  should  be  added  to  the  above 
tables. 

§  TJ,  The  Yukaghir  language  has  the  transitive  verb  A  (to 
have),  which  is  absent  in  the  Ural-Altaic  languages. 

§  78.  Intransitive  verbs  whose  base  ends  with  a  short  vowel 
assume  the  suffixes  je,  jek\  etc.,  in  the  present-preterite,  and 
ce^  iteky  etc.,  in  the  future  tense ;  with  a  long  vowel  or  a 
diphthong  they  assume  the  suffixes  ce^  cek\  etc.,  in  the  present- 
preterite,  and  teye^  teyek\  etc.,  in  the  future ;  while  those  ending 
in  a  consonant  have  the  suffixes  j€,Jek\  etc.,  or  ce,  cek\  etc.,  for 
the  former,  and  teye,  teyek\  etc.,  for  the  latter  tense. 

§  79.  The  negative  conjugation  of  transitive  verbs  corre- 
sponds to  the  positive  conjugation  (with  the  exception  of  the 
negative  prefix  el)  of  intransitive  verbs. 

§  80.  All  forms  of  the  indefinite  conjugation  are  actual  pred- 
icate forms.  It  is  only  the  first  person,  singular  number,  present 
preterite,  of  intransitive  verbs  that  may  be  used  as  a  modifier 
when  put  before  a  noun.  It  thus  takes  the  place  of  adjective 
forms,  which  are  absent  in  the  Yukaghir  language  (see  §  40). 
For  instance : 

1.  Met*  lefye  I  am,  or  I  live. 

2.  Le?ye  ioro'mox*  Living,  existing  man. 

1 .  Met  ebrbeye  I  am  black. 

2.  EbUbeye  xar  A  black  skin. 

§  81.  The  interrogative  form  is  used  only  when  it  does  not 
refer  to  the  verb  itself.     For  instance  : 

Mit  e^ye  a'tei  ?  Will  we  make  a  bow  ? 

atei  is  the  positive  form,  but  in  the  expressions, 

Mit*  xanUn  e?ye  atu'ok*  ?     When  will  we  make  a  bow  ? 
Mit*  xa'mlol  e!ye  atu'ok*  ?  How  many  bows  will  we  make  I 

the  verb  is  used  in  the  interrogative  form. 


jochelson]     grammar  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         397 


§82.   Definite  Conjugation 


Transitive. 
Present-Preterite. 

I.  kudf^de-me 


-me 

'tneU  oxkude^de-mU 

met' 
'fUmeU 


Future. 

1.  kude'de-tme 

2.  "      -tme 

3.  "      'tmele 

1.  "      'tul' 

2.  "      -temet' 

3.  **      -nitemle 


"  -^//^/' 


§  83.  In  the  definite  conjugation,  the  predicate  is  used  when 
the  subject  is  in  the  definite  nominative  case,  or  the  direct  object 
in  the  definite  accusative.     For  instance  : 


I.  Met'  lodcf-ye  and  2.  Meftek'  It/dol' 

I.  Met'  hd&'teye       and  2.  Me?tek'  lodo'tel' 


I  played. 
I  shall  play. 


or 


I.    Tet'  kude^demik'    and  2.    Te^tek'  kude'de-me   Thou  hast  killed. 
I.    Tet'  kud^detmik'  and  2.    Te'tek'  kude^det-me  Thou  wilt  kill. 
3.  Met  d^ie  kude'de    and  4.  Met  aHelek'  kude*- 

deme  I  killed  a  reindeer. 

The  examples  (i)  may  be  used  to  answer  the  question,  Who 
did^  or  will  do,  a  certain  thing?  while  (2)  are  used  in  reply  to 
the  question,  Who  did  or  will  do  a  certain  thing  ?  (3)  answers 
the  question,  What  I  did?  and  (4)  answers  the  question.  What 
I  killed? 

•  §  84.  When  the  form  of  the  first  person,  singular  number, 
present-preterite,  definite  conjugation,  precedes  a  noun,  it  as- 
sumes the  meaning  of  a  participle. 


398  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

kud^deme  car(/mox*  The  man  that  has  been  killing. 

lodol  adi'lek*  The  youth  that  has  been  playing. 

§  85.  The  optative  mode  expresses,  by  means  of  the  suffixes 
u'ol  or  miebiy  a  desire  to  do  a  ceitain  thing.  Both  transitive 
and  intransitive  verbs  may  have  this  mode.  It  is  conjugated  in 
all  forms  and  in  both  tenses.  The  suffixes  u'ol^  and  tn^ebi  are 
put  either  between  the  base  and  the  other  verbal  suffixes,  or  be- 
tween the  latter  and  the  first  person,  present-preterite,  of  the 
definite  conjugation  (see  §  82). 

dl'U^ol*  (trans,  v.)  to  desire  to  do  (the  base  is  d), 

m(/d'Uol*  (intrans.  v.)  to  desire  to  sit  (the  base  is  mo^do 

but  o  is  dropped). 

m€t  aluol*  I  desire  to  do. 

met*  fm/duol/e  I  wish  to  sit. 

met  el-d!luolje  I  don't  wish  to  sit. 

met  dl'uoltt*  I  shall  wish  to  do. 

met*  mc^duolteye  I  shall  wish  to  sit. 

u'ol  expresses  only  the  desire,  but  not  the  possibility  of  doing ; 
while  mi'ebi  expresses  both  ideas.     For  instance : 

1.  met*  lehd'Uol-fe  I  desire  to  cat,  I  am  himgry. 

2.  met*  leHde-miebi'/e  I  wish  to  eat  (having  food). 

§  86.  The  conjunctive  mood  is  expressed  by  means  of  the 
prefix  ot : 

Met  a!  nil  ai  of  leu  I  (once)  more  fish  would  eat. 

Tet  iaHafiin  of-xo'njek  thou  to  the  elder  brother  shouldst 

go. 

§  87.  The  conditional  mood  has  several  forms.  The  follow- 
ing are  all  the  forms  of  the  verb  a  (to  do) : 

1234  5  6 

met      -d'-de    a' -hide    a'-lelde    d'-lel^ide    d'l-gene    or   d'-lelgene 
tet       -    *' 
tudel   -    ** 
mit      -    ** 


tit        -    ** 
tit  el    -    ** 


*  *  a  'gene 

**  d'-deune  or   d!'leldeune 

**  d'-lukene  or   d'^lelukene 


(( 


d'Hideune  or   a' -leltlideune 


k 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         399 

Forms  1-4  are  used  when  the  principal  and  subordinate 
clauses  have  one  and  the  same  person  as  subject,  while  5,  6, 
are  used  when  different  person  are  subjects  of  the  two  clauses. 
Besides,  forms  3,  4,  and  6  require  that  the  verb  in  the  prin- 
cipal clause  shall  also  be  in  the  conjunctive  mood.  For 
instance : 

1.  Met  a! -de  keit*  I,  if  make,  shall  give. 

2.  Met  i^ 'Hide  keit'  " 

3.  Met  W'lelde  met  </tkei  I,  if  made,  would  give. 

4.  Met  d^ -lelfUde  met  & tkei  " 

5.  Met  Of  (gene,  tet  mink^  I,  if  make,  thou  take. 

6.  Mitd!'lelukene^cfmniof'  we,  if  made,  people  would  take. 

mi'n'fiam 

Forms  5  and  6  are  also  used  with  the  suffix  tel^  of  the  future 
tense.     For  instance : 

*^  Metul  el'tle^'tel'ginet  el-ki/ude-tel-gine,  metu(/rpe 

me  not  if  wilt  scold  not  if  wilt  beat  my  children 

meV'tVte  ydulellelgene^      te^tin  ke^lteye,  *  *  * 
me  like  if  wilt  love  to  thee  will  go. 

''If  thou  wilt  not  scold  me,  wilt  not  beat  me,  my  children,  like 
me,  wilt  love,  to  thee  I  will  go. ' ' 

It  should  be  noted  in  this  example  that  the  verbs  i'le  *'  scold '' 

V 

and  k</ude  **beat"  are  in  form  5,  and  yc/uletle  "love,"  in  form 
6,  but  without  the  element  of  the  future  tense.  The  verb  kelteye 
(base,  kel^  (I  will  go)  is  in  the  future  tense,  indicative  mode,  and 
not  in  the  conjunctive  (/t-kelteye^  thus  corresponding  to  the  first 
two  forms. 

§  88.  The  supine  is  formed  by  means  of  the  suffix  din. 

Met  Id  do-din  kiede  I  (in  order  to)  play  have  come. 

This  suffix  is  apparently  the  dative  of  nouns.  Very  often 
deflin,  the  suffix  of  the  dative  case,  together  with  the  possessive 
element,  are  abbreviated  into  diti.  For  instance,  erne' i-deHin  (to 
his  mother)  may  be  shortened  into  eme'i-din.     On  the  other 

1  Jochelson,  Yukaghir  Materiab,  etc.,  text  No.  69,  pp.  170,  171,  lines  46,  47. 
Thus  a  widow  replied  to  a  man  that  was  courting  her. 


4CX)  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

hand,  the  dative  of  verbal  nouns  is  used  instead  of  the  above 
form  of  supine.  Instead  of  saying  as  in  the  above  example,  the 
following  expression  might  be  used,  Met  lo'dol-nin  kie'de.  In 
this  way,  the  form  which  corresponds  to  the  Latin  supine  is 
rather  a  substantive  than  a  verbal  form. 

§  89.  Perfective  I  called  the  mode  which  expresses  an  ab- 
solute certainty  that  the  action  will  take  place.  It  is  formed 
by  means  of  the  suffix  mon\  which  is  put  between  the  verbal 
suffix  and  the  base. 

Transitive.  Intransitive. 

1.  Metd!'mcfl  3.  Met*  kobe^i-mofi-ye 

2.  Titel  d'-mofi-Ham  4.    Titel*  kobeH-mofi-fU 

1.  I  am  able  to  do,  or  shall  do,  without  fail. 

2.  They  are  able  to  do,  or  will  do,  without  fail. 

3.  I  can  go  away,  I  shall  certainly  go  away. 

4.  They  can  go  away,  they  will  certainly  go  away. 

§  90.  The  potential  mood  is  formed  by  means  of  the  prefix 
tno'li^  and  expresses  hope  or  fear  that  a  certain  action  will  take 
place.     For  instance : 

Met*  mc^li'idu  I  may  cut  off,  and  lest  I  cut  off. 

Met*  nu/ii-ei-ii/uye  I  nearly  cut  off. 

§  91.  The  evidential  mood  is  formed  by  means  of  the  suffix 
lel\  which  is  a  verbal  noun  (see  §  83)  from  the  verb  le  (to  be, 
exist,  live).  The  evidential  mode  is  used  when  something  is 
told,  not  from  the  experience  of  the  narrator,  but  (i)  from  hear- 
say, (2)  as  a  supposition,  (3)  as  a  conclusion  drawn  from  certain 
traces  that  the  action  had  taken  place,  (4)  as  a  dream,  and  (5) 
as  reminiscences  of  events  which  had  occurred  in  the  early 
childhood  of  the  narrator,  and  of  which  he  had  learned  subse- 

Transitive.  Intransitive. 

Met    'd!'lel*  u'-iei-Je 

Tet    'a'-lel'tnik*  u'-Iel-Jek* 

Tudel-a! 'lel-um '  u'-lel-i 


1  The  third  person,  indicative  mode  is  H-m^^  but  in  this  case  u  is  introduced  after 
the  consonant  /. 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         4OI 

quently.     Transitive,  as  well  as  intransitive,  verbs  have  this 
mode.     Let  us  take  the  verbs  &  (do)  and  it  (be  bom). 

Mit    'd'-lel'i  U'-lel'jHli 

Tit     -d^-lei-met'  u' -iel-Jfyemei' 

Tftei  -a'-iel'flam  u'-lel-fii 

Met  eii'e  tiH  nu!moU  dm  My  father  this  house  made  (the 

narrator  saw). 

Met  eiVe  tiH  nu'moie  aHelum  My  father  this  house  made  (it  is 

apparent). 

Met  eiVe  tiH  nu'mole  d'telum.  My  father  this  house  made,  they 
m(/nHi  say. 

Met  yend(/fey  met  eiHe  tiH  numoie  I  dreamed  that  my  father  this 
dUeium  house  built. 

Tolo'u  median  pogV-kl'i  A  wild  reindeer  just  now  ran  by 

(would  be  said,  should  fresh 
traces  of  reindeer-hoofs  be  ex- 
amined on  the  ground). 

**  I  was  bom  *'  would  be  translated,  met  U'lelje  (and  not  ll'fe\ 
since  no  one  can  be  a  witness  of  his  own  birth. 

§  92.  The  inchoative  mood  is  formed  by  means  of  the  aux- 
iliary verb  d  (to  do),  which  is  put  between  the  base  and  the 
suffix.  Of  course  the  end  vowel  of  the  base  is  frequently 
dropped  in  this  case,     d  changes  into  e  after  /. 

pa!nde  to  cook  pandd'  to  start  cooking. 

d^fe  to  drink  ojd'  to  begin  to  drink. 

mo' do  to  sit  madd'  to  sit  down  (begin  to  sit), 

o^rpo  to  hang  a'rpd  to  begin  to  hang. 

pdgi  to  run  (of  animals)  po'gid  to  start  running. 

See  pp.  1 01,  102  with  reference  to  o  changing  into  a  in  the 
verbs  mo' do  and  o^rpo, 

Tudet  pa'ndd'i  (intrans.),  he  began  cooking.  Tudel  d'jile 
d'jd-m  (trans.),  he  water  started  to  drink. 

§  93.  By  adding  the  suffix  yei  to  the  stem  of  the  verb,  an 
action  is  expressed  for  the  completion  of  which  it  is  required  to 
go  somewhere.  Yet,  used  separately,  is  a  verb  whose  meaning 
is  to  **rush  one's  self"  "to  throw  one's  self." 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  7. — 3S 


402  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Ic^do-yei  to  go  somewhere,  to  start  off  somewhere  to  play. 
kude^de-yei  to  go  somewhere  to  kill. 

It  follows  the  general  rules  of  conjugation  of  transitive  and 
intransitive  verbs. 

§  94.  The  supine,  by  means  of  the  auxiliary  verb  le  (to  be), 
expresses  the  readiness,  or  the  intention  to  do  something,  and 
corresponds  to  the  Latin  conjugatio  periphrastica, 

keldifi'le  to  be  getting  ready  to  come,  to  be  ready,  to  intend  to  come. 
TPtel  ani'le  leu* din-lefli  they  fish  are  getting  ready  to  eat. 

Voices 

The  following  voices  are  formed  from  transitive  and  intransi- 
tive verbs. 

§  95.  The  reflexive  voice  is  formed  from  a  transitive  verb  by 
means  of  the  personal  pronoun  met^  which  is  prefixed  to  the 
verb.  In  the  Slav  languages  the  reflexive  voice  is  formed  in  the 
same  manner;  but  the  pronoun  "self"  is  used  by  the  latter 
as  a  suffix.     For  instance  : 

Met^  niiU'kudt^ deye  I  myself  kill. 

TeV  me^ t'kude deyek'  Thou  thyself  killest. 

Tudel'  m^t'kude!dei  He  himself  kills,'  or  killed. 

These  verbs  are  conjugated  like  intransitive  verbs. 

§  96.  The  passive  voice  is  formed  from  transitive  verbs  by 
means  of  the  suffix  <?,  which  is  usually  blended,  together  with 
the  final  vowel  of  the  base,  into  a  long  0,     For  instance  : 

Kud^do  instead  of  kude'de-o. 

Verbs  in  the  passive  voice  are  conjugated  like  intransitive 
verbs.     For  instance : 

Tu'dei^  kerefken-e  kude'dd-i  He  is  killed  by  a  Koryak. 

1  It  is  interesting  to  note  that,  in  the  Tundra  dialect,  the  preBx-pronoun  of  the 
reflexive  changes  by  persons,  as  in  the  Romano-Germanic  languages  : 

Met*  met-bunje  I  kill  myself. 

iet*  M-bun-Jek*  Thou  killest  thyself. 

tudel*  iur-bun-i  He  kills,  or  killed,  himself. 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE   YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         403 

§  97.  The  causative  voice  is  formed,  by  means  of  the  suffix 
c^  from  transitive  as  well  as  intransitive  verbs ;  but  the  latter 
are,  in  such  cases,  changed  into  transitive  verbs : 

kude'de-c  to  cause  to  kill. 

mc^do-c  to  make  to  sit. 

There  is  another  suffix  for  the  formation  of  the  causative 
voice  ;  namely,  ctile  ;  but  the  difference  between  the  two  is  not 
quite  clear  to  me  as  yet.  I  hope  that  closer  study  of  the  texts 
will  make  the  difference  clear. 

§  98.  The  reciprocal  voice  is  formed  by  means  of  the  prefix 
n'€  (in  nouns,  it  constitutes  the  suffix  of  the  comitative  case). 
This  voice  follows  the  rules  of  conjugation  of  intransitive  verbs. 
For  instance : 

TVtel  ne'kudideni  They  killed  each  other. 

§  99.  The  cooperative  voice  is  formed  by  means  of  the  suffix 
Je  or  ji.     For  instance  : 

kud/Je  To  kill  together. 

ktideje  is  equivalent  to  kudedeje.  The  second  syllable  de  is 
blended  together  withy>  into  one  syllable. 

Aspects  or  Degrees  of  Action 

§  100.  Derivative  verbs  indicating  degrees  of  action  are 
formed  by  means  of  suffixes,  except  those  in  §  107. 

§101.  The  suffix  I  indicates  singleness  of  action,  that  a  cer- 
tain action  was  performed  only  once  and  within  a  short  period 
of  time : 

pa!nde  to  cook  pa'ndei  to  cook  once. 

§  102.  The  suffix  H  expresses  an  action  in  diminutive  form, 
limits  the  volume  of  it : 

pa!nde'H  to  cook  a  little. 

§  103.  The  suffix  nil  expresses   the  iterative  form  of  the 

action : 

panda! -nu  to  cook  several  times. 


\ 


404  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  190$ 

In  this  case,  the  final  vowel  of  the  base  turns  into  a  long 
sound. 

§  104.  The  suffix  nunu  (a  reduplication  of  nti)  expresses  the 
iterative  form  in  an  intense  degree  : 

panda-nunu  to  be  always  cooking  (with  interruptions) . 

§  105.  The  suffix^'  expresses  the  durative  form,  indicating 
continuity  of  action,  or  its  reiteration  within  certain  periods  of 
time : 

panda' -yi  to  cook  long. 

Met  d^ie  ku'deii    I  killed  many  reindeer  one  after  another. 

ku'deH  is  equivalent  to  kude'de-yi.  The  e  is  dropped  in  de^ 
and  dy  is  J  (see  phonology),/  changes  into  c{ty). 

§  106.  Any  two  of  the  enumerated  suffixes  for  the  expres- 
sion of  degrees  of  action  may  be  combined,  thus  forming  the 
following : 

1.  inu        the  repetition  of  a  single  action. 

2.  inunu  "  *'       "         *' 

3.  iinu      the  repetition  of  a  diminutive  form,  diminutive-iterative. 

4.  ^inunu  "  "  "  "  *'  " 

5.  yinu      durative-iterative. 

6.  y inunu 


ti  li 


§  107.  The  prefix  me  expresses  an  action  not  quite  conq>leted 
but  in  the  process  of  completion,  or  recently  completed,  or 
about  to  be  completed  : 

Met  die  me'-kude'de       I  have  just  been  killing,  or  I  am  killing  a 

reindeer. 
Met*  me'-loddteye  I  am  going  to  play,  I  will  play,  right  now 

(soon). 

§  108.  The  order  in  which  the  suffixes  expressing  the  differ- 
ent derivative  conceptions  are  arranged  after  the  verb-base  is  as 
follows  :  base  +  voice  +  degree  of  action  -f  mode  +  verbal  suffix 
of  person  and  tense  : 

Tu'del  ac-nu' 'lel'Um     He  apparently  caused  to  do   .    .    .  several 

times. 


JOCHKLSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         4OS 

§  109.  Before  proceeding  to  describe  the  participial  forms,  I 
wish  to  draw  attention  to  the  ease  with  which  nouns  become 
verbs,  outside  of  the  cases  mentioned  above  (see  §  64). 

§  1 10.  Every  noun  in  the  comitative  forms,  by  dropping  e  of 
its  suffix  we^  a  base  of  an  intransitive  verb  expressing  the 
ownership  of  something.     For  instance : 

aie-n^'e  with  reindeer. 

a^ien-  to  have  reindeer. 

Met  dieri'-Je  I  have  reindeer,  or  a  reindeer. 

met  u</rpen''Je  I  have  children. 

Tu'dei  eiCen-i  he  has  a  father. 

§  1 1 1.  Every  base  of  a  noun  may  be  turned  into  an  intransi- 
tive verb  by  adding  to  the  particle  Ho  (be)  as  a  suffix,  which  has 
no  meaning  when  it  stands  alone.     For  instance  : 

Eh'e-Ho  be  a  father. 

Met  eHe-fiO'je  I  am  a  father,  I  have  been  a  father. 

Met  eii* e-fiO'teye  I  shall  be  a  father. 

Verbal  Nouns 

§  112.  The  particle  bon,  being  suffixed  to  various  verbal 
forms,  composes  verbal  nouns,  which  are  used  sometimes  as  the 
name  of  the  subject  (like  our  participles),  or  as  a  name  of  an 
action ;  but  if  the  verb  is  transitive,  the  verbal  noun  may  also 
signify  the  object  which  receives  the  action  expressed  by  the 
verb.  From  the  base  dje  (to  drink),  we  may  derive  the  follow- 
ing verbal  nouns : 

Present-Preterite. 
d^jeyebon         c^Jemebon         c^Jemelebon         o'Jelbon 

Future. 
df jet ey  ebon      ojetmebon         ojetmeiebon         ojetelbon. 

Bon  combines  also  with  the  form  lei*  of  the  evidential  mode. 

Examples. 

I.    Tu*  del  i' biiile  c^jemelebodek*^     He  the  milk  who  drank,  or  it  is  just 

the  one  that  drank  the  milk. 


406  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

d^Jetnelebbdek^  is  the  definite  nominative  case  of  tfjemeleban — 
One  who  drank. 

2.  Met  ^jelbon  d^Jik*  my  (by  me)  drunk  water,  the  water 

(that    I    am    drinking)    dnmk 
by  me. 

3.  Met  dfelbon  my  beverage,  or  the  beverage  that 
Met  d^Jeyebon  used  to  be  mine. 

Met  cfjemebon 

4.  Ofe-nu-meiebongele  (accus. )    That  which  is  used  to  drink  (he) 

tUx'anin  el  mUji  has  never  taken. 

5.  Metek  S^jeteyebodek^  I  am  the  one  that  will  drink. 

The  suffix  bon  is  used  as  an  independent  word,  pan  (a  word 
cannot  begin  with  b\  In  olden  times  this  word  used  to  indicate 
the  name  of  a  deity  embracing  all  nature,  the  universe.  Pan 
indicates  sa^nething  that  is  unknown.  All  household  goods 
taken  as  a  whole  are  spoken  oi  dc&  po^npe. 

§  1 13.  The  suffix  uo  or  uol*  (from  uo,  *'  child  **),  when  joined 
to  verbal  forms,  expresses  the  result  of  an  action.    For  instance : 

x(/n-uo  or  x(/n'Uol*  {ixom  xoriy  "walk"),     walking,    a  trace   from 

walking,  also  a  trail. 
c^je-l'uol*  (/is  introduced  between  the  two     the  process  of  drinking, 
vowels ;  oje  is   the  basis  of  the   verb         also  the  trace  left  from 
**  drink*')  drinking,    e,  g,,    the 

water  left  in  the  glass 
after  drinking. 

§  114.  With  regard  to  verbal  forms  serving  as  adjective 
modifiers,  see  §§  80,  84,  no. 

The  Gerund  or  Verbal  Adverb 

§  1 15.  The  suffix  /,  together  with  the  verbal  base,  forms  the 
verbal  adverb,  which  expresses  an  action  taking  place  simul- 
taneously with  that  indicated  by  the  predicate  : 

Met*  m<ydo-t  dyi  I  while  sitting  was  shooting. 

Met  anil  legu-t^  corii'e  I  while  eating  fish  was  writing. 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         407 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  suffix  /  is  that  of  the  ablative  without 
the  local  element  ^^  (§  12): 

M(/iiO't*  sitting,  or  from  sitting. 

§  116.  The  suffix  Ue  with  the  verbal  base  expresses  an  ac- 
tion preceding  the  one  expressed  by  the  predicate,  lie  is  ap- 
parently nothing  but  the  instrumentative  case  le  (see  §  12);  but 
I  always  heard  a  sound  of  double  /  in  verbal  adverbs.  This 
form  is  in  most  cases  combined  with  the  possessive  element  de 
or  do  (see  §  12): 

Met  e^ye  d-delle  nu!mo-yekli*n        I,  a  bow  having  made,  went  hunt- 

xdnje  ing. 

MeV  modd'-delle  tndgo  Hgdd  I,  having  sat  down,  a  cap  began  to 

sew. 

§  1 1 7.  If  the  verbal  adverb  expresses  an  action  of  another 
person  (not  of  the  subject),  but  taking  place  simultaneously  with 
the  action  of  the  subject,  it  is  then  derived  from  the  forms  of 
the  definite  conjugation  (see  §  82)  together  with  locative  suf- 
fixes. The  suffix  ge  is  used  for  the  first  and  second  person, 
singular  number ;  dege,  for  the  third  person,  both  numbers ;  and 
luke^  for  the  first  and  second  person,  plural  number.  For  in- 
stance : 

Met  yu'ol'ge  while  I  looked. 

Tetyu'ol'ge  while  thou  looked. 

Tu*del  yu*0'dege  while  he  looked. 

Mit  yu'oluke  while  we  looked. 

Tit  yuoluke  while  you  looked. 

TV tel yu' ohi'dege  while  they  looked. 

Mit yu'oluke  tu'dei  ani'le  Vgdem  while  we  looked  (in  our  looking), 

he  was  fishing. 

TUtel  ai  yd ndohide^ ge  mit  dnil  while  they  were  still  asleep  we  were 

I'dgei  catching  fish. 

The  Adverb 
§  1 18.  The  following  are  some  of  the  adverbs  of  time  : 

xanrn  when.  ti'ne  lately. 

xani'nde  sometimes.  dugo'n  soon. 


4o8 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 


ajdtif  early. 

iudd*  long  ago. 

a  long. 

x&nlumey  x&llume  immediately. 

fi'e'xantn  never. 

xa^dii  already. 

a'Hnume  at  first. 

ke?yot^  at  first. 
keyefn  previously. 
druk^  (suddenly,  the  Russian 
word  vdrug) . 

§  1 19.  Adverbs  of  place  : 

ta  there,  thither. 

ti  here. 

xon  where,  whither. 

xot  where  from,  whence. 

xo'dibonget*  whence. 

xcfnde  eyerywhere,  any^'here. 

tav  thence. 

§  1 20.  Adverbs  of  manner  : 

</moi  well. 

domdn  very. 

n- a' dude  enough,  only. 

ta'adaga  enough. 


tdif  ta'iiie  aflerwards,  later  on. 

n^gajiye  yesterday. 

ogc^iye  to-morrow. 

ta'finugi  then. 

Hji  now. 

ai  again,  once  more,  anew. 

To! hun-nH hifi'gielgc  meanwhile,  in 

the  mean  time. 
ni*Helije  many  times. 
xa'mlije  several  times. 


iHer  elsewhere. 

migUde  hither. 

tifiide  this  way. 

cat* rude  sideways. 

pude  outside. 

n-aiin  against,  opposite. 

/I/'  hence,  from  here. 


krjuon-  easily,  lightly. 
nigefyot  heavily. 
i'rkin  only. 


§  121.  All  adverbs  directly  precede  the  verb,  and  may  be  re- 
garded as  prefixes.  Not  all  adverbs  to  be  found  in  the  lan- 
guage have  been  enumerated  here.  Some  adverbs  are  simply 
roots,  for  instance,  td,  ti.  Others  are  derived  from  these  roots, 
for  instance,  tat*  tW  (**  thence,"  "  hence  "),  which  are  the  ablative 
of  td  and  ti.  Others  are  formed  from  nouns  and  adverbs,  as, 
for  instance,  fr'acin  (*'  opposite  *'),  an  abbreviation  of  w* acefiin 
(dative  of  ivaJce,  '*  face  '*);  i'rkin  (**  only  '*)  is  merely  the  numeral 
one  ;  como'ti'  ("very"),  from  domo,  which  is  the  basis  of  the  in- 
transitive verb  to  be  large, 

§  122.  The  temporal  case  of  nouns,  mentioned  under  nouns, 
is  also  to  be  added  to  the  adverbs  of  time  (§§  12,  31). 


jochklsonj    grammar  of  the  yukaghir  language      409 

Post-positions 

§  123.  All  post-positions,  which  take  the  place  of  preposi- 
tions, might  just  as  well  be  called  '*  case -post-positions,"  like  the 
suffixes  enumerated  in  connection  with  the  declension  of  nouns 
(see  §1).  Post-positions  differ  from  the  latter  in  that  they  are 
not  used  in  connection  with  a  possessive  element,  and  that  most 
of  them  may  take  on  case-suffixes.  The  latter  circumstance  is 
not  so  characteristic,  however,  since  «v,  comitative  case,  is  used 
as  a  separate  word,  wdga  (** together**),  and  the  case-suffixes 
get,  gen,  gete,  are  derivatives  from  the  locative  ge.  As  may  be 
seen  from  examples,  post-positions  are  sometimes  put  after 
oblique  cases  of  nouns. 

§  1 24.  The  following  are  the  post-positions. 

yola\  yolafn    after, 

behind.  Met-yola'        after,  behind  me. 

budi'e  on  top,  upon, 

on. 
budHen  on,  over  the 

surface. 
budHet^  from  under 

the  surface. 
al  under.  met-al  under  me. 

at  from  under.  Ubie^-n-at  v!kol  came  out  from  under  the  ground. 

alW   near.  nu'mo-d-a/a'  near  the  house. 

ca'ide  across.  unu'ilge-ca'ide  across  the  river.     //;///«  (river) 

ge  is  in  the  locative  case. 
yekU'e  behind.  nu' mon-yekli' e  behind  the  house. 

mekWe  in  front.  u'nufi'meklfe  at  this  side  of  the  river. 

letioT  the  sake,  is  a  verbal  adverb  of  the  verb  le  (**  be  "),  and  is 
put  after  the  dative. 

met  eHi' efitn-iet^  kole'ie  I  for  the  sake  of  father  came. 

ele-lu'on  without.  E'U  (the  adverb  of  the  denial  no) 

is  put  before  the  noun. 
Ti'tel  ef le-me! t'tu! on  xdntii  They  without  me  went  away. 

§  125.  The  Yukaghir  language  has  no  conjunctions;    but 
some  pronouns  in  oblique  cases  are  used  instead.    For  instance, 


*  Tu'dei^  nu'tne-budt'ernddot  he  sits  on  the  house. 


4IO  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Tabu! ngef  {2ikAzA\^  of  ta'bun^  "that")  replaces  the  illative 
conjunction  therefore. 

Ta'ttnedetine  ("and  for  this  reason  ")  is  the  subjunctive  mode 
of  the  intransitive  verb  tatme  ("  to  be  such  **). 

The  adverb  cd  ("  again  ")  is  sometimes  used  instead  of  our 
conjunction  and\ 

IVtelyafxteHi  ai  io'HdoHt  They  sang  and  danced. 

Concluding  Remarks 

The  morphological  peculiarities  of  the  language  may  be 
summed  up  in  the  following  main  propositions. 

Word-formation  is  accomplished  mainly  by  means  of  suffixes  ; 
but  prefixes  are  also  used  (almost  exclusively  in  connection 
with  verbal  forms).  In  this  respect  the  language  differs  from 
those  of  the  Ural-Altaic  group,  which  use  suffixes  only,  and 
approaches  the  American  languages. 

The  possessive  suffixes  of  nouns  is  but  little  developed  (except 
in  the  third  person)  ;  the  language  thus  differing  from  the  Ural- 
Altaic,  as  well  as  from  the  Eskimo  dialects. 

Sound  harmony  of  vowels  {a  and  o  should  not  occur  in  the 
same  word),  is  little  developed,  and  in  this  respect  the  language 
resembles  some  of  the  Indian  dialects,  but  differs  absolutely  from 
the  Ural-Altaic  languages  with  their  intricate  system  of  vowel- 
harmony.  For  instance,  an  important  feature  of  the  vowel- 
harmony  of  the  latter  group  of  languages  consists  of  the  adap- 
tation of  the  suffix  vowels  to  the  vowel  of  the  root,  which 
never  changes.  The  vowel  of  the  first  syllable  thus  governs 
all  the  rest  of  the  vowels,  no  matter  what  their  number  may  be. 
In  the  harmony  of  the  Yukaghir  language,  the  root-vowel  fre- 
quently adapts  itself  to  the  vowel  of  the  suffix  (see  §  92). 
Besides,  in  the  plural  forms  of  personal  pronouns  {met\  niit*  ; 
tet\  tit* ;  ttide/*,  titel*)  an  attempt  may  be  noticed  in  the  language 
to  derive  new  forms  by  means  of  changes  of  vowels  within  the 
root  (the  method  of  Semitic  languages)  without  any  additions 
from  outside,  a  feature  of  which  traces  may  be  found  in  two 
other  so-called  "isolated**  Siberian  languages,  —  that  of  the 
Kott  and  the  Ostyak  from  Yenisei. 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  7 HE  YVKAGHIR  LANGLAGE         4II 

The  difference  in  the  conjugation  of  transitive  and  intransitive 
verbs  which  we  have  in  the  Yukaghir  language  is  a  feature  com- 
mon to  almost  all  American  languages.  The  same  may  be  said 
of  the  capacity  of  bases  of  transitive  verbs  to  change  into 
intransitive  by  means  of  suffixes  and  vice  versa. 

Suffixes  of  purely  verbal  forms  are  different  from  case-suf- 
fixes, and  they  cannot  be  brought  in  connection  with  personal 
pronouns. 

A  necessary  element  of  plurality  is  constituted  by  the  sound 
/ ;  while  that  of  futurity  by  /.  In  the  Chukchee  and  Eskimo 
languages  /  constitutes  the  element  of  plurality,  and  in  the 
Koryak  language  it  forms  the  element  of  the  dual  number. 

Adjectives,  being  verbal  forms,  do  not  undergo  any  inflections. 

There  is  no  difference  between  animate  and  inanimate  objects, 
as  is  the  case  in  some  Indian  dialects. 

The  feature  known  as  **  polysynthesis  "  in  American  dialects, 
and  which  consists  of  a  combination  of  two  or  more  uninflected 
bases  in  one  word,  in  which  one  of  the  bases  expresses  the 
principal  idea,  and  is  put  at  the  end  of  the  word,  while  the  other 
bases  figure  as  secondary  definitive  ideas,  is  also  to  be  met  with 
in  the  Yukaghir  language.     For  instance  : 

Met      tu'de-e}i*e-m</dol^'     koi      -cu^oleji     pundut*^ 
I  he  self     sitting      boy         tale         shall  tell. 

That  is,  I  shall  tell  a  tale  of  a  boy  who  was  sitting  (living)  all 
alone. 

In  the  expression : 

tii*  de-eji*  e-mo' dol^ 'koi-iu' ohji 

we  have  an  actual  synthesis.  Without  being  inflected,  all  sec- 
ondary bases  are  combined  into  one  conception  with  the  prin- 
cipal base  at*  oleji'tale 

Or  :    Ye^Iokufi'   nc/ineye-      bon     -ku'dediye  eort/ mo-Hot^      kude'y^ 
Four         with  legs  something  killing  man -being  have  become. 

1  See  Yukaghir  Materials,  etc.,  Tale  12,  p.  25. 
«Ibid.,  Tale  25,  p.  169. 


412  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

That  is,  (I)  have  become  a  man  that  kills  four-legged  things 
(animals). 

Other  examples  may  be  cited  in  which  the  bases  combining 
into  one  word  drop  one  or  more  syllables.      For  instance : 

V 

Co'mani  (Coregonus  leucichtys)  is  actually  derived  from  Como'Je- 
d-a'nil  (**big  fish") ;  or  Cofn&He  (elder  brother  of  the  father, 
uncle)  is  really  Conu/fe-d'eci'e  (big  father). 

It  is  true  that  there  is  no  actual  incorporation  to  be  found  in 
the  language ;  neither  pronouns  nor  nouns,  when  direct  or  in- 
direct objects,  are  incorporated  in  the  predicate ;  but  the  nature 
of  the  syntactical  construction  of  the  Yukaghir  language  is  akin 
to  incorporation.  The  verb  plays  the  main  part  in  the  sentence. 
It  is  always  placed  at  the  end  of  the  sentence,  being  preceded, 
first  by  the  subject  with  all  its  modifiers,  then  by  the  direct  and 
indirect  objects  with  their  modifiers,  then  by  the  adverbs.  If 
the  subject  is  not  accompanied  by  any  modifiers,  and  it  is  known 
from  the  sense  of  the  story  who  the  acting  person  is,  then  it  is 
usually  dropped  (see  below,  the  text).  The  subject  very  often 
does  not  assume  the  element  of  plurality,  though  there  are 
many  acting  persons,  as  long  as  the  sense  of  plurality  is  ex- 
pressed by  the  verb  (see  the  text). 


APPENDIX 

A  Tale  of  what  the  Ancient  Yukaghir  did  with  their 

Dead  Shamans 

1234 
(iu'oU'd-(/mnif         aHmaky  a'mdegency  du'de 

Ancient  people     the  shaman's,     when  (he)  died,       flesh 


5  67 

l&ndoniiebidey        ca'rxun-moii/Jek    mdrotiimele^ 
to  separate  wishing  gloves  put  on 


8 

n'oHe-n-abu^tek 

masks 


9  10  II 

tm/roHimele     lu'dud-u'tiik^  mt'n'fiimeU, 

•  •  • 

iron  hooks  took. 


put  on 


14 
n '  ^iaxaddidelle. 

having  caught 


15  16 

tt'te-idni     diHyifiam. 
to  them  drew. 


12  13 

TaMde,      du'deule 
Therewith     flesh  his 

17  18 

Tat'         tanyit 

Thus     having  drawn 


19  20  21  22  23         24 

idhnufiam.      Nug</fte     e^U-mefinufli,      N'e*lbetHam^    tat'    wutn^fit 
cut.         With  hands      not  took.  Tore  off       thus     whole 


25  26  27  28 

kefnbunit*      londoham,     (yrponjirax     d'HimeU^ 
entire  width    separated.        Hangers  made 


29  30 

pu^de      a'fiam, 
outside      made 


31  32  33  34 

ta    orpuWefiam ;    pu'de^    yelofefUn 

there      hanged       outside    in  the  sun 


35  36 

kie'Ucfiam,     Kie' lee  telle 

dried.       Having  dried 


37                      38             39  40  41 

cor(/mon'ulpegt  le'Hiteiy  to!  fide  tuHgele      xa'rteHitem, 

relatives  his  if  will  be      that  flesh  ynW  divide. 

42                        43             44  45  46 

(y nmedie-nu* mok  a'tlimele.  Ti'te  pa'ilgele     0' nmedie-nu! mo 

Of  thin  larch  a  house      made.  Their  shares     of  thin  larch  house 


413 


414  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

47  43  49  SO  SI 

mo'lgod(/go      caxaHecHam        nHfier,       Cord mon'ulpegi  tobdkolok* 

middle     put  (every  one)    separately.      Relatives  his  dogs 

52  S3  54  55  56  57 

ku^deiifUmeU^     er'ie     tobdkogde      dU-ku*deiifli^     omdie    tobdkox*' 
killed  bad         dogs  not  killed  good        dogs 

58  59  60  61  62 

kt^deiihimeU.       Tabu'ngeU  tUte         Pcti*lgc      ponHyifiam, 

killed.  Those  (dogs)     to  their      shares  put. 

63  64  65  66  67 

Tabu'de     ke^nmeUlUi      po'niHam,    A'mundeule    ta'bun-ydla'n 
Those    having  added        left.  Bones  his        thereafter 

68  69  70  71 

xa'rtdfHam.  Tabu'dek        amu'ngi        kidUctelle 

to  divide  commenced.      Those  bones  his      having  dried 

72  73  74  75  76 

tamifefiam,      Tabu'de    ydd-amu'ngele      xdidefU,        Tabu'ngeU 
clothed.         That  his  skull        worshipped.      For  that 

77  78  79  80  81  82 

cdUk*        cordmo-tite    d'fiam,    coromodeuU   coromo-titelu'o  aHam. 
(of)  wood       manlike        made       trunk  his  manlike         made. 

85  Z6  87 

nucdlecHam,       Tabu'ngeU       ma'gideuU 
set  on.  For  that         jacket  his 

88  89  90  91  92  93 

u'yaHamy     mdgopedeule    dfiam.     TdHde    n^drgele      ceu*refiam^ 
made  caps  his         made.      That       garb  his    embroidered, 

94  95  96  97  93 

dU-kid'du'on      ceu'reham,  Ti'fide       n-a'dedeuU        n'drek 

m 

all  over         embroidered.       For  this      for  his  face       clothes 

99  100  loi  102  103  104 

u^ydfiimeUy     a'tifeduol^-pon^xobodek    d'Htmele,      a'Hadeule      ai 
made  for  eyes     openings         made         mouth  his     also 


83 

84 

ltd  'd-amu*  ndeuU 

m 

ta 

His  skull 

thence 

JOCHBLSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         415 


105 

106                   107 

108 

109 

dffiam. 

Ti'ne             coriren^ul^ 

ma'gideuU 

pu'dedegen 

made. 

Former         embroidered 

jacket  his 

on  it 

no 

III 

112 

yer</ ye-xar-magi' le 

moru*  cefiam 

Ta'bun 

of  skins  of 

one  year  old  reindeer  jacket 

put  on. 

That 

113  114  115 

pu'dedegen  ndnn^ere  yodu'taifiam. 

upon  (of  it)     (with)  blanket  of  soft  reindeer-skin     wrapped. 

116  117  118  119 

TdlHle  moddtoham,  drfe  moddtafiam. 

Thereafter  set  (also  placed)      in  the  front  comer        placed. 

120  121  122  123  124 

Omdtebon         Idnflide,     loii'lge       pddetehamy       pu'dedegen 
Good  something       if  eat        in  fire  burn  over  it  (fire) 

125  126  127  128  129  130 

tabu'ngele      td       mdinunuham :     TdHde   md-legiteHam^     kdcnei 
that         there  keep :  That       so       fed  at  every 

131  132         133  134  135 

Idndel^e  t&t       d'Ham,  Tabu'de  xdin-eHi, 

meal  thus        did.  That  (one)         worshipped. 

Told  by  the  old  Yukaghir  Nicholas  Samsonoff  in  the  village 
on  the  Korkodon  River,  October,  1 896. 

Free  Translation  of  the  Text 

Our  ancient  people,  when  a  shaman  died,  used  to  separate 
the  flesh  of  the  corpse  from  the  bones.  For  that  purpose  they 
put  on  gloves  and  masks.  Then  they  took  iron  hooks,  and, 
having  caught  the  flesh  of  the  corpse,  drew  it  to  them  and  cut 
it  off".  It  was  considered  a  sin  to  touch  the  corpse  with  bare 
hands,  or  to  look  at  it  with  uncovered  face.  Thus  they  sepa- 
rated the  flesh  from  the  skeleton  on  its  entire  length.  Then  they 
made  drying-frames  and  hung  the  flesh  on  them  outside,  in  the 
sun  to  dry.     After  the  flesh  was  dried,  the  relatives  of  the  dead 


4l6  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  S.,  7,  1905 

shaman  divided  it  among  themselves.  Then  they  made  a  tent 
of  thin  larch-trees,  and  each  of  them  put  his  share  in  the  middle 
of  the  larch-tent  separately.  Then  the  relatives  of  the  shaman 
killed  dogs  as  offerings.  They  did  not  kill  bad  dogs;  they 
killed  only  good  ones.  Then  they  added  the  killed  dogs  to 
their  portions  of  dried  flesh.  After  that  they  left  the  tent  with 
the  shaman's  flesh  and  the  dog-offerings. 

Then  they  divided  the  bones  of  the  corpse,  and,  after  having 
dried  them,  they  clothed  them.  They  worshipped  the  skull  of 
the  shaman.  They  made  a  trunk  of  wood,  and  set  on  it  the 
skull.  Then  they  made  for  it  (for  the  idol)  a  jacket  and  caps 
(two  caps,  —  a  winter  and  a  summer  one).  They  embroidered 
the  coat  all  over.  For  its  face  they  made  a  mask,  with  open- 
ings for  eyes  and  mouth.  Over  the  embroidered  coat  they  put 
a  coat  of  fawn-skins ;  and  over  that,  a  blanket  of  soft  reindeer- 
skin. 

Then  they  placed  the  figure  in  the  front  comer  of  the  house. 
Whenever  they  were  going  to  eat  something  good,  they  first 
threw  a  piece  of  it  into  the  fire,  and  held  the  figure  over  the 
smoke.  This  they  did  at  every  meal ;  and  thus  they  fed  the 
figure,  which  they  worshipped  like  a  god. 

Grammatical  Analysis  of  the  Text 

1.  Cu! ole-d'O* mni,  Cii^o,  adverb  of  time  {long  ago)  ;  hi'ole 
(old  times ) ;  o'inni,  a  collective  conception  (people,  men).  It 
was  apparently  formed  from  ^';;/(7  (tribe,  clan,  kin)  and  the  suflfix 
comitative  n-i  (instead  of  ive)  (with  the  kin,  with  the  entire 
clan).     Cu' olC'd'O' mni  (people  of  times  ancient).     See  §  9. 

2.  A  (male.  The  base  is  alma  (shaman) ;  le  is  the  suffix, 
accusative  indefinite.     See  §§  12,  20. 

3.  A'mde-gene,  Amde^  base  of  intransitive  verb  {die)\  gene 
is  the  suffix  of  the  conditional  mode.     See  §  87. 

4.  Qide  is  used  instead  of  ctigi.  The  base  is  cul  (meat, 
flesh)  ;  gi  is  the  possessive  suffix  (see  §§  8,  9) ;  /  before  gi  is 
usually  dropped.  The  use  of  de  instead  of  gi  is  apparently  an 
old  form.  It  occurs  in  ancient  tales  and  shaman's  songs,  but 
not  in  ordinary  conversation. 


k 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YVKAGHIR  LANG V AGE        417 

5.  Lo'  ndo-miebi'  -de.  Lo'ndo,  base  of  transitive  verb  (sepa- 
rate) ;  miebi^  optative  mode  (see  §  85) ;  de^  suffix  of  the  condi- 
tional mode  (see  §  87).  This  verb  has  formally  two  direct  ob- 
jects —  alma4e  and  hi'gi —  instead  of  a'lma-cu'gi  (the  shaman's 
flesh). 

6.  Ca'rxun-molo'jek  (gloves),  from  ca!rxun  (fingers)  and 
molo'je  (mittens,  mittens  with  fingers),  k^  suffix  of  accusative 
definite  case.     See  §§12,  20. 

7.  Mdrofiimele,  Mo'ro,  base  of  transitive  verb  (put  on); 
aimele^  suffix  of  the  third  person,  plural  number,  present  pre- 
terite, definite  conjugation  (see  §  82).  Ca'rxun-molo'Jek  is  in 
the  singular  number,  since  in  the  Yukaghir  language  it  is  suffi- 
cient if  the  idea  of  plurality  is  expressed  in  the  predicate  only. 

8.  N'a'ce-n-abu'tek*  (mask),  from  n-a'ce  (face),  a'buf  (cover) ; 
k,  suffix  of  the  accusative  definite  (§  12) ;  «  is  inserted  between 
the  two  vowels.     See  §  9. 

9.  See  7. 

10.  Lu! dU'd'U' -nik*  (iron  hook).  Ludul*  (iron),  /'  is  dropped  ; 
and  n'ni  (hook)  ;  k,  suffix  of  the  accusative  definite  ;  d^  see  §  9. 

1 1.  Mi' n'fiimele  (took).  Min\  base  of  transitive  verb  (take)  ; 
nimcle  (see  7). 

12.  Tabu'de  (therewith,  with  that;  that  is,  with  the  hooks). 
The  base  is  Ta'bun  (that).  Tabu'de  (inst.  of  tabu' tile),  instru- 
mental case  (see  §  60). 

13.  Cu'deule  (flesh  his  ;  that  is,  the  shaman's).  The  base  is 
hd*  (flesh),/*  is  dropped  before  d]  deule^  degele^  accusative 
definite  with  the  possessive  element  (see  §  26). 

14.  N'a'cexadmdelle  (having  caught).  Na'cexada  (catch)^ 
transitive  verb ;  /,  the  element  indicating  singleness  of  action 
(see  §  1 01);  delle^  suffix  of  the  verbal  adverb,  past  tense  (see 

§116). 

15.  Ti'tC'lafliy  to  them,  Ti'tc,  instead  of  titet  (they),  /*  being 
dropped ;  and  laili,  a  post-position  indicating  direction  toward 
something. 

16.  Aci'yinam,  from  a'ci  (to  draw),  base  of  transitive  verb ; 
yi  durative  (see  §  105) ;  Ham,  third  person,  plural  number,  pres- 
ent preterite,  transitive  verb,  indefinite  conjugation  (see  §  75). 

AM.  AITTH.,  H.  S.,  ^ — 45. 


41 8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST         [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

17.  Taf  (thus,  after,  or  thence)  is  formed  from  t&  (there). 
See  §  1 19. 

18.  Ci'Hfit  (having  drawn,  pulled).  Gift  (pull,  draw),  base  of 
transitive  verb,  it  has  apparently  the  same  root  as  d'H  (16) ;  ji, 
suffix  co-operative  (see  §  99) ;  /,  suffix  of  present  participle  (see 

§115). 

V 

19.  C</finuham  =  d(/unufiam,  from  do'u,  (cut)  base  of  transi- 
tive verb ;  nu,  suffix  of  the  iterative  form  (see  §  103) ;  ^am  (see  16). 

20.  Nugc/ne,  Nu'gon  (hand),  base  ;  ^,  instead  of  />,  suffix  of 
the  instrumental  case.  /  is  dropped  after  the  final  n ;  in  some 
cases,  the  final  n  is  changed  into  //,  f.  c.  nug</de  inst.  of  nug(/ne. 

2 1 .  Ele-meV nufii  =  ele  moinufii,  Moi  (to  hold),  base  of  tran- 
sitive verb ;  nu^  suffix  of  the  iterative  form  (see  §  103) ;  ele  (or 
el)  .  .  .  ^i,  prefix  and  suffix  of  the  negative  conjugation  (see 

§§  75,  79). 

22.  Ne'lietHam,     Ne'lbet  (to  tear  off,  to  sldn,  to  pull  off  the 

skin),  base  of  transitive  verb  ;  nam  (see  16). 

23.  Tat,     See  17. 

24.  N'u'mJit{yf\io\t,  entirely),  gerund  (see  §  115),  from  nu'mde 
or  nu'tnje  (be  whole) ;  nu'mjeye  we^molgit^  a  whole  year  (see 

§  80). 

25.  Ke'nbunif  (entire  width),  gerund{ste  §115),  from  ke'nbun. 
(be  wide)  ;  ke' nbuneye-d-u' nufi^  wide  river. 

26.  Lohidoflam,  Lo'ndo  (separate,  untie),  base  of  transitive 
verb;  ^afn  (see  16). 

27.  Orpo'njirax  (hangers).  X^  suffix  of  accusative  definite 
(see  §§12,  20).  This  word  is  formed  from  the  base  of  the  in- 
transitive verb,  oWpo  (hang)  ;  n  is  inserted  //,  suffix  cooperative 
(see  §  99)  and  cal  (tree),  /  having  been  dropped,  and  c  changed 
into  r, 

28.  Anvnele,  A  (do),  base  of  transitive  verb ;  fiimele  (see  7) 
is  in  agreement  with  the  definite  case  (see  27).     See  §§  82,  83. 

29.  Pu'de  (outside),  adverb. 

30.  A'fiam.     A,  see  28  ;  nam,  see  16. 

31.  Td  (there),  adverb  (see  §  1 19). 

32.  Orpu're-nam,  Orpu're  (hang),  base  of  transitive  verb; 
nam,  see  16. 


jocHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE        419 

33.  Pu!de,     See  29. 

34.  Yelo'JC'fiin,  Yelo'je  (sun),  base ;  fiin  (to  the  sun),  suffix 
dative  (see  §  1 5). 

35.  Kie' lee-Ham,  KieHe  (be  dry),  base  of  intransitive  verb  ; 
^r,  suffix  of  the  causative  voice  (see  §  97),  kielec  (make  dry,  force 
to  be  dry) ;  fiam^  see  16. 

36.  Kie'lec-telle.  Kie'lec^  see  35,  telle  ^  delle  {d  after  c 
changes  into  /),  see  14. 

37.  Coro' mon'ul-pe'gi.  Caro'tPtowul'  relative  ;  pe^  element  of 
plurality  (see  §  33) ;  gi,  possessive  suffix  (see  §§7,  12). 

38.  Le'-flitei.  Le  (be),  base  of  intransitive  verb ;  flitei,  suffix 
of  the  third  person,  plural  number,  future  tense,  indefinite  con- 
jugation of  intransitive  verbs  (see  §  75).  The  future  tense  is 
sometimes  used  instead  of  the  conditional  mode. 

39.  TaU'de,  instead  of  tafi-le.  Tan,  demonstrative  pro- 
noun ;  de,  suffix  of  accusative  indefinite  (see  §  60). 

40.  tu!l'gele.  Cul  is  the  base  ;  gele,  suffix  of  the  accusative 
with  the  possessive  element  (see  §§  12,  25). 

41.  Xa' rte-nitetn.  Xa'rte  (divide),  base  of  transitive  verb; 
aitem  suffix  of  the  third  person,  plural  number,  future  tense, 
indefinite  conjugation  of  transitive  verbs  (see  §  75). 

42.  O* nmedie-nu! mok  (a  house  made  of  young  larch-trees ; 
that  is,  a  conical  tent  made  of  larch-tree  rods).  O'nmedie  is 
formed  from  on,  a  root  expressing  the  conception  of  larch. 
Larch-tree  is  called  o'nra  or  onda ;  that  is,  on  (larch)  and  col 
(tree),  see  27 ;  die  is  the  suffix  of  a  diminutive  noun  (see  §39)  ; 
the  meaning  of  the  particle  me  is  unknown  to  me.  It  is,  at 
any  rate,  hardly  possible  that  we  should  have  to  do  here  with  the 
word  o'nme  (mind,  memory,  or  opinion).  Nu'mo  (house)  ;  k 
suffix  of  the  accusative  definite  (see  §  1 2). 

43.  A'-Himele,     A  (to  do);  nimele,  see  7. 

44.  Ti^te,  possessive  pronoun  (see  §  55). 

45.  Pa'il-gele.  Pail  is  from  the  Russian  word  pai  (share)  : 
/  has  apparently  been  added  either  to  form  a  Yukaghir  verbal 
noun  out  of  the  Russian  base,  or  in  order  to  distinguish  it  from 
the  Yukaghir  word  pai  (young  woman)  ;  gele  (see  40). 

46.  0* nmedie-nu! mo.     See  42. 


420  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST         [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

47.  MoHgO'dbgo  (in  its  middle).  M</lgo^  adverb  ol  place, 
also  used  as  a  post-position  ;  dogo  =  dege,  suffix  of  the  locative 
with  the  possessive  element  (see  §  1 2). 

48.  Caxa' lec'fiafpt,  Caxa'lec  (assemble,  gather,  rally,  collect), 
base  of  transitive  verb  ;  Ham,     See  16. 

49.  Nifier  (every,  separately),  from  i^iler  (separately)  and  ne 
(together).     See  §§  119,  123. 

50.  Cor(/ mofi'ulpegi.     See  37. 

51.  Tob</ko-lok\  Tobo'ko,  from  the  Russian  soba'ka  (dog). 
Since  there  is  no  sound  of  s  in  the  Yukaghir  language,  s  is 
changed  into  /,  and  both  vowels  a  changed  into  o,  according  to 
the  rules  of  harmony  (see  Phonology).  The  ancient  word  for 
dog,  pu'bet  is  not  used  any  more.  The  Tundra  dialect  still 
retains  two  words  for  dog,  —  lameil  (this  word  seems  to  be  bor- 
rowed from  the  Tungus)  and  xapwefl ;  lok'  =  lek\  suffix  of  the 
accusative  definite  (see  §  12). 

52.  Ku' de-H-fiimele  is  formed  from  the  base  kude'de  (to  kill)  ; 
yif  suffix  of  the  durative  form  ;  dc  -f-  yi  =  di  (see  §  105)  ;  flimele, 
see  7. 

53.  E'rde  (bad,  poor),  first  person,  singular  number,  present- 
preterite  (base  e'rU'  be  bad),  used  as  an  adjective  before  a  noun 
(see  §§37,  80). 

54.  Tobo'ko.     See  5 1  ;  gele,  see  40. 

55.  E le-ku! deci'Hi,  Ku'deci,  see  52  ;  e'le  .  .  .  fn\  form  of  the 
third  person,  plural  number,  present  preterite,  negative  conju- 
gation of  transitive  verbs  (see  §  §  75,  79). 

56.  Om(/ce,  from  (/ffio  (be  good),  the  base  of  the  transitive 
verb  ;  ^e,  see  53. 

57.  tobo'ko,  see  51  ;  ;r',  suffix  of  the  incomplete  indefinite 
form  of  the  accusative  (see  §  1 2). 

58.  Kti'deHnimele,     See  52. 

59.  Tabu'ngele,     Ta*bu7i  (that),  see  §§  56,  60;  ge^e^  see  40. 

60.  Ti'te,     See  44. 

61.  Pail,     See  45  ;  ge,  suffix  of  the  locative  (see  §§  12,  16). 

62.  Pont-yi-flam,  Po*ni  (put),  base  of  the  transitive  verb  ; 
yi^  see  16  and  52  ;  nam  (see  16). 

63.  Tabii'de,  instead  oi  ta'bun  (the  base  of  the  demonstrative 


JOCHBLSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE        42 1 

pronoun  that),  and  le^  suffix  of  the  accusative  definite  (see  §  60). 

64.  Ke'nmete-lle,  Ke'nme  (friend)  changes,  by  means  of  the 
suffix  tey  into  a  transitive  verb,  —  to  provide  sotneone  with  a 

friend^  a  companion^  or  fellow-traveler  (see  §  64) ;  lle^  suffix  of 
the  verbal  adverb,  past  tense  (see  §  1 16,  and  compare  with  the 
element  de  in  14). 

65.  Po'ni-Ham.     See  62. 

66.  A'niun  (the  base,  means  bone);  deule.     See  13. 

67.  Ta'bun.  See  63  ;  yola'n  (after,  behind),  post-position 
see  §  123). 

68.  Xa! rta^am  ^  xa' rte  (see  41)  +  Ay  inchoative  mood  (see 
§  92);  fiam.     See  16. 

69.  Tabu'dek\  instead  of  tabunlek'  (see  63,  the  accusative 
definite  (see  §  60). 

70.  A'mun.     See  66 ;  gi,  possessive  suffix  of  the  accusative. 

71.  Kie'lectelle,     See  36. 

72.  Tami'te  (to  dress,  dress  up),  base  of  transitive  verb; 
nam.     See  16. 

73.  Tabu'de,     See  63. 

74.  Yd' -d-amv!  ngele  (the  head-bone ;  that  is,  skull);  yd 
(head);  d  is  inserted  for  euphony  (see  §  9);  a'mun.  See  66 ; 
gele.     See  40. 

75.  Xo'ide-ili,  Xc^ide  or  xo'in-e  is  the  base  of  the  intransitive 
verb  to  have  a  god  or  to  be  with  a  god^  from  xoil'  (god)  and  the 
suffix  de  (see  §  64)  or  7ve  (see  §  no);  fii  is  the  suffix  of  the  in- 
transitive verb  (see  §  75).  It  should  be  noted,  that  with  the 
intransitive  verb  xoHde  a  direct  object  in  the  accusative  has  been 
used.  It  might  have  been  the  instrumentalis,  tabu' de  yd'd'am- 
u'ngele ;  that  is.  with  this  skull  (see  §  60)  they  were  as  with  a 
god  (see  134,  135). 

76.  Tabuhtgele,  See  59,  in  the  sense  of  '*  for  that "  ;  that  is, 
for  the  skull. 

T/.  Cd'l-ek'.  Ctll  (tree) ;  ek\  instead  oilek'  {I  naving  been  run 
into  one  with  the  /  of  the  base),  suffix  of  the  accusative  definite 
(see  §  12). 

7%,   Coro'mo  (man);  ti'te^  suffix  of  the  comparative  II  (see  §  1 2). 

79.  A'-ilavi,     See  30.     It  should  be  pointed  out  that  the 


422  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST         [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

word  a* -nam  has  two  objects  in  the  accusative.     One  (76)  is  in 
the  definite ;  the  other  {yj\  the  indefinite  form. 

80.  Core/ mo  (man  and  trunk,  body),  in  this  case  it  means 
trunk ;  deule  =  degele.     See  1 3. 

81.  Caro^mO'tiielu'o.  See  78.  Core/ ma-tiU-l-uo  figures  here 
as  the  suffix  of  the  verbal  noun,  indicating  the  result  of  an  ac- 
tion (see  §  113). 

82.  A'-flam,     See  79. 

83.  Yo' -d-amun-deule.     See  66  and  74. 

84.  Ta.    See  3 1 . 

85.  Niice' lec-fiam.     Nuce'Uc  (set  on);  nam.     See  16. 

86.  Tabu'ngele,     See  59. 

87.  Mafgirdeule,  from  ma'gil'  (coat,  jacket),  /'  being  dropped, 
and  deule  =  degele.     See  13. 

88.  Uya'nam  =  u'i  (work) ;  a,  inchoative  mood  (see  68) ; 
nam.     See  16. 

89.  Mo' go  (cap)  ;  pe,  element  of  plurality.    Two  caps  used  to 

■ 

be  made,  —  one  for  the  summer,  made  of  soft  reindeer  leather 
and  embroidered ;  the  other  one,  made  of  fur,  was  put  on  top. 
ham.     See  16. 

90.  A' -nam.     See  30. 

91.  Ta'n-de  =  ta'n-le,  the  accusative  indefinite  (see  §  60). 

92.  N'er  (garb,  things)  ;  gele.     See  74. 

93.  0//r^  (to  embroider) ;  nam.     See  16. 

94.  Ele-kie'-hi^on^  e'le  .  .  .  r//'^;«  (without),  see  §  1 24,  and 
ki'cil'  (end),  cit  is  dropped,  and  /  is  lengthened  into  a  diph- 
thong. Without  end  ;  that  is,  entirely,  all  over,  nothing  was 
left  unembroidered  on  the  garment. 

95.  Ceu'renam,     See  93. 

96.  Ti'n-de  =  ti'n-le  (this),  the  accusative  indefinite  (see  §  60). 

97.  N'a'ce  (face),  see  8  ;  deule,  see  13. 

98.  N'er-ek,  N-er,  see  92  ;  ek,  suffix  of  the  accusative,  in- 
stead of  k,  e  being  inserted  after  the  final  consonant  of  the  base. 
It  seems  to  me  that  the  accusative  in  97,  in  its  relation  to  n'er-ek, 
is  used  in  the  sense  of  the  Saxon  form  of  the  genitive  case  in 
the  English  language. 

99.  UyCt' ,  see  88  ;  nimele,  see  7. 


JOCHELSON]      GRAMMAR  OF  THE  YUKAGHIR  LANGUAGE         423 

100.  A' fij€'d-u' ot  =  a'nje  (eye)  ;  rf,  the  connecting  particle ; 
uol\  the  suffix  of  a  verbal  noun  expressing  the  result  or  trace 
of  an  action  (see  §  113).     A' nje-d-u* ot  =  place  for  eyes. 

1 01.  Po'ft'xo-bodek,  instead  of  p(/n'xo-bonlek  (see  §  112), 
P(/n'xo  (to  be  bright,  transparent),  the  base  of  the  verb ;  bon, 
suffix  of  the  verbal  noun  (see  §  112);  bodek,  the  accusative 
definite  (see  §  112).  Po'n'xo-bon  (something  bright,  transparent). 
Aaje-d'Uol-pon'xO'bon  =  eye-place,  transparent  =  opening  for 
the  eyes. 

102.  A'nimele  (see  28). 

103.  A'na  (mouth);  deu/f  {see  13). 

104.  -^1  (also).     See  §  118. 

105.  A'Ham,     See  79. 

106.  Ti'nej  adverb  of  time  (see  §  118). 

107.  Cori'len*  (to  be  embroidered),  base  of  the  intransitive 
verb;  ul',  suffix  of  the  verbal  noun,  used  as  modifier  (see  §§ 
82,  84). 

108.  Ma'gideule.     See  87. 

109.  Pu'de  (in  the  yard,  outside,  or  above,  over,  upon) ;  see 
29 ;  degetiy  the  vialis  with  the  possessive  element  (see  §  1 7). 

1 10.  Yer(/ye  (one-year-old  reindeer  fawn) ;  xar  (sldn)  ;  ma'gii 
(jacket) ;  e,  suffix  of  the  accusative. 

111.  Morude  (dress,  put  on) ;  Ham  (see  16). 

112.  Ta'bun  (see  1 2). 

113.  Pu'dedegen,     See  109. 

114.  No'ji-n'er-e  =  no'ji  (soft  reindeer  leather) ;  n-er  (clothes) ; 
€y  suffix  of  the  accusative  indefinite  (see  §  12). 

115.  Yodu'tai  (wrap)  ;  Ham  (see  16). 

1 16.  Ta'cUe  (afterwards),  adverb  of  time  (see  §  118). 

117.  Modo'to-Ham,  Mo' do  (to  sit),  intransitive  verb  ;  to  =  te, 
suffix  turning  intransitive  verbs  into  transitive  ;  modo'-to  (to  seat, 
to  place)  ;  Ham.     See  16. 

118.  O'rfe  (in  the  middle),  adverb  of  place  (see  §  119).  They 
call  thus  the  place  of  honor  in  their  house ;  that  is,  the  side 
facing  the  entrance. 

119.  Modo'tofiam,     See  117. 


424  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST         [N. «.,  7,  199$ 

120.  Om(/(^e'bon  (something  good),  verbal  noun  (sec  §  112, 
Omc^ce  see  56). 

121.  Le'nfiidey  from  Idu  (to  eat),  base  of  the  tiiansitive  verb ; 
and  fiidiy  conditional  mode  (see  §  87). 

122.  LotU*^  (fire) ;  ge^  the  locative  (see  §  12).    ' 

123.  Pe' de-te-ftam.  Pe'de  (to  bum),  base  of  the  intransitive 
verb ;  te  changes  the  verb  into  a  transitive  verb  (to  singe),  see 
1 17  ;  nam.     See  16. 

124.  Pu'dedegen,  See  109.  It  is  equivalent  to  "over  it" 
(the  fire). 

125.  Tabuhtgele  (it  \  that  is,  the  idol).     See  59. 

126.  Ta.    See  84. 

127.  Mc^ i-nunu-fiam.  A?irf(hold,  keep),  base  of  the  transitive 
verb ;  nunu^  suffix  of  the  intensive-iterative  (see  §  104) ;  fiam. 
See  16. 

128.  Ta'nde.     See  39. 

129.  Me-legt  te-fiam.  Me^  see  §  107  ;  legi'te  (to  feed),  from 
the  transitive  verb  le'u  (to  eat) ;  fiam,  see  16. 

130.  Ka'cnei  (every),  from  the  Russian  ka'shdfy.  To  use 
the  Yukaghir  expression,  it  should  be  le' ftde-o* nmun  (see  §  57), 
instead  of  ka'cnei  le'^elge. 

131.  Le'adel'ge,  Le'fide  (to  eat,  in  general),  intransitive  verb, 
formed  from  the  transitive  verb  le'u  (eat)  by  means  of  the  suf- 
fix de  (see  §  ^)  ;  /'is  the  suffix  of  the  verbal  noun  (see  §§  82, 
83)  ;  gty  the  locative  (see  §  12). 

132.  Tat.     See  23. 

133.  A^'fiam.     See  79. 

134.  Tabu'de.     See  73  and  75. 

135.  Xo^freni,     See  75. 


*    Mto  •        ** 


\       *■• 


>»■•.«-     tff. 


•        ■     M  .       • 


T 


>« 


\ 

I 

i 


»  s. 


■ ». 


'«Tr3». 


"  "■    I  ■!■   .  III. 


■     I! 


■•■V 


■  l»    .Ul-JlJ.*.."'!  *  t  . 


•4 


■^■»  ■    «« 


^,- 


5. 


V..-— 


.  \ 


1 


t 


t  *,    » 


^< 


•       w      ' 


»  V 


...«.    .—    .^     ,..*- 


•      )  • 


s        » 


/ 

I 


-  •  .  [ 


ft 

It 


.;;»>* 


American  Anthropologist 


NEW   SERIES 


Vol.  7  July-September,  1905  No.  3 

THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  —  EVIDENCES  OF  A  RUDE 
INDUSTRY  ANTEDATING  THE   PALEOLITHIC 

By  GEORGE   GRANT  MACCURDY 

Introduction 

Nature's  processes  may  be  likened  to  photography.  She  fur- 
nishes the  sensitized  film,  and  the  finger  of  Time  manipulates  the 
camera.  It  remains  for  man  to  develop  and  interpret  the  exposures. 
The  geological  record  is  a  film  cartridge  exposed  and  sealed  again, 
bound  up  with  which  are  the  beginnings  of  man's  own  record  on  the 
earth.  The  process  of  development  begins  with  the  most  recent 
exposure  and  works  backward. 

For  a  long  time  we  had  a  picture  of  man's  neolithic  record  only. 
In  the  early  part  of  the  last  century,  Boucher  de  Perthes,  with  the 
help  of  Sir  Joseph  Prestwich  and  others,  clipped  off  another  section 
of  the  film,  which  when  developed  revealed  the  long  chapter  of  our 
paleolithic  history.  It  took  a  good  while  for  some  of  us  to  accept 
the  interpretation  put  upon  that  picture.  When  finally  and  gener- 
ally accepted,  there  was  in  many  quarters  a  feeling  of  relief  that  we 
had  at  last  reached  the  end,  or  rather  the  beginning,  of  the  series 
of  Father  Time's  snapshots  at  our  primitive  ancestors.  Neverthe- 
less, Jo  some  persistent  investigators  it  seemed  worth  while  to  take 
another  pull  at  this  enigmatical  film.  They  appear  to  have  been 
rewarded  by  a  bona  fide  negative ;  but,  to  say  the  least,  there  is  a 
certain  superficial  indistinctness  about  it  that  has  rendered  the  print 
rather  unsatisfactory  to  some  minds.  Recently  the  negative  has 
been  so  strengthened  that  we  are  now  practically  assured  of  a  pic- 
ture worthy  of  a  frame,  and  a  place  on  the  walls  of  our  prehistoric 
gallery. 

AM.  ANTR.,  H.  S.,  J—ag  4^5 


426  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

In  the  order,  then,  of  their  taking,  these  three  views  may  be 
labeled  :   (i)  Eolithic,  (2)  Paleolithic,  and  (3)  Neolithic.     Sir  John 
Lubbock,  now  Lord  Avebury,  furnished  the  names  for  the  second 
and  third.     The  first  was  christened  as  late  as  1892  by  another 
Englishman,  Mr  J.  Allen  Brown,*  fellow  of  the  Geological  Society, 
and  an  enthusiastic  student  of  the  prehistoric.     Two  years  later 
de  Mortillet  made  use  of   the  term  "eolithic**  for  the  first  time 
by  him,  in  his  Classification  palethnologique^  but  did  not  refer  to 
J.  Allen  Brown's  article.     The  latter,  in  discussing  the  rude  sped- 
mens  found  on  the  North  Downs  by  Mr  Benjamin  Harrison,  sug- 
gested that  the  term  "eolithic"  be  applied  to  the  "roughly  hewn 
pebbles  and  nodules  and  naturally  broken  stones  showing  work,  with 
thick,  [ochreous  patina,  found  on  the  plateaux  of  chalk  and  other  dis- 
tricts in  beds  unconnected  with  the  present  valley  drainage.**     The 
de  Mortillet  classification  was  republished  in   1900.'     Leaving  the 
paleolithic  to  represent  the  early  Quaternary,  he  applied  the  term 
eolithic  to  all  that  has  to  do  with  the  Tertiary.     Dr  Rutot  of  Brus- 
sels, to  whom  we  are  indebted  more  than  to  any  one  else  for  our 
knowledge  of  the  eolithic  period,  and  whose  work  will  be  discussed 
at  length  in  this  paper,  does  not  limit  it  chronologically  to  the 
Tertiary.     In  his  classification,*  the  early  phases  of  the  Quaternary, 
those  connected  with  the  first  grand  extension  of  the  glaciers,  are 
also  eolithic,  the  well-known  hache  type  (Chellean)  of  implement 
not  appearing  until  the  second  advance  of  the  ice. 

When  Thomsen  published  his  relative  chronology  for  prehis- 
toric times  in  1836,  the  only  stone  age  known  was  that  which  is 
now  called  the  neolithic  period.  Boucher  de  Perthes's  first  discov- 
ery of  paleoliths  came  just  two  years  later ;  but  they  were  not 
accepted  until  after  (Sir)  Joseph  Prestwich*s  visit  to  Abbeville  in 
1859.  Eoliths  have  had  a  still  longer  and  harder  struggle  for 
recognition.  When  first  reported  in  1867,  they  at  once  attracted 
considerable  attention.     After  a  lively  discussion  that  lasted   for 

^On  the  continuity  of  the  paleolithic  and  neolithic  periods;  Jour.  Anthr,  Inst., 
March  8,  1892  ;  xxii,  pp.  93-94.    Brown  died  Sept.  24,  1903. 

^ Bull.  Soc.  d^ anthr.  de  Paris ^  1894,  p.  616. 

'  Le  prihisioriqufy  3®  6d. 

*L'6tat  actuel  de  la  question  de  T  antiquity  de  Thomme  ;  Bull.  Soc.  beige  de  giol.,  de 
palion.  etd'hydrol.y  Bruxelles,  1903,  xvii,  p.  425. 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  427 

five  or  six  years,  the  subject  was  relegated  to  the  background.  It 
might  have  passed  into  oblivion  had  it  not  been  for  the  researches 
of  Sir  Joseph  Prestwich  in  England,  begun  about  fifteen  years  ago, 
and  for  the  more  recent  work  of  Rutot  in  Belgium.  Some  of  the 
details  in  its  eventful  history  are  worthy  of  record  here. 

Early  Discoveries 

The  discovery  in  Pliocene  deposits  of  incised  bones  first  served 
to  awaken  an  interest  in  the  question  of  Tertiary  man,  and  led  more 
or  less  directly  to  the  later  discovery  of  flints  thought  to  have  been 
chipped  intentionally.  In  fact,  Sir  Charles  Lyell  would  not  formulate 
an  opinion  as  to  the  nature  of  the  incisions  on  bone  found  by  Des- 
noyers  ^  in  the  sand  and  gravel-pit  of  Saint-Prest,  near  Chartres, 
because  the  deposits  had  yielded  no  stone  implements.  But  not 
long  after  (1867),  the  Abbe  Bourgeois  found  in  the  same  deposits 
what  he  considered  to  be  stone  implements.  These  were  obtained 
at  various  depths  in  the  high-level  gravels  (Pliocene)  at  Saint-Prest 
and  did  not  include  the  amygdaloid  (Chellean)  type  generally  sup- 
posed at  that  time  to  represent  the  earliest  industry  in  stone.  The 
associated  fauna  consisted  of:  Elephas  meridionalis,  Rhinoceros 
etruscus  (Falconer),  Hippopotamus  major  (?),  Equus  amensis,  Tro- 
gontherium  cuvieri,  three  species  of  Cervus  and  one  of  Bos. 

The  Abbe  Bourgeois's  researches  were  soon  extended  to  the 
Miocene  at  Thenay,  and  formed  the  subject  of  important  communi- 
cations to  the  International  Anthropological  Congresses  of  1867  and 
1872.  At  the  latter,  held  in  Brussels,  a  committee  of  fifteen  was 
appointed  to  report  on  the  chipped  flints  from  Thenay,  submitted  by 
Bourgeois.  Nine  of  the  Committee — de  Quatrefages,  d'Omalius, 
Cartailhac,  Capellini,  Worsaae,  Valdemar  Schmidt,  de  Vibraye, 
Franks,  and  Engelhardt  —  pronounced  in  favor  of  certain  speci- 
mens ;  five  —  Steenstrup,  Virchow,  Neyrinckx,  Fraas,  and  Desor — 
found  no  evidence  of  intentional  shaping ;  and  one  —  Van  Beneden 
—  was  unable  to  decide.  De  Mortillet  remained  to  the  last  a 
champion  of  the  Thenay  specimens,  some  of  which  are  preserved 
in  the  Musee  des  Antiquites  Nationales  at  Saint-Germain.     On  the 

^  Note  sur  des  indices  materials  de  la  coexistence  de  I'homme  avec  T  Elephas  meri- 
dionalis, etc.  ;  C-R.  Acad,  des  sciences^  Paris,  1863,  p.  1073. 


428  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

other  hand,  researches  made  by  Professors  Capitan  and  Mahoudeau 
in  1 90 1  have  led  them  to  combat  the  existence  of  artifacts  in  the 
deposit  at  Thenay.  Rutot  withholds  judgment  until  further  evi- 
dence is  forthcoming.  At  the  Brussels  Congress  (1872),  Carlos 
Ribeiro  presented  a  paper  on  fliipped  flints  from  the  Upper  Miocene 
and  the  Pliocene  deposits  near  Lisbon,  Portugal.  Later,  one  of  his 
compatriots,  Delgado,  discovered  similar  specimens  in  the  Upper 
Miocene  at  Otta.  But  the  consensus  of  opinion  is  that  the  pieces 
from  the  valley  of  the  Tagus  and  from  Otta  are  not  artifacts. 

A  better  fate  has  been  reserved  for  the  discovery  by  J.  B. 
Rames,  in  1877,  of  chipped  flints  in  the  Tertiary  at  Puy-Coumy  * 
near  Aurillac  (Cantal).  The  beds  resting  on  Miocene  basalt  are 
alluvial,  and  belong  to  the  Upper  Miocene.  They  contain  the  fol- 
lowing fossils,  as  determined  by  Gaudry :  Dinotherium  giganteum. 
Mastodon  (angustidens  or  longi-nostris),  Rhinoceros  schleier- 
macheri,  Hipparion  gracile,  Tragoceros,  and  Gazella  deperdita. 
All  the  flints  possess  a  brilliant  black  or  dark  yellow  patina.  The 
retouches  and  marks  of  utilization  are  most  convincing.  After  a 
careful  study  of  the  pieces,  de  Mortillet,  Cartailhac,  Chantre,  and 
Capellini  declared  that  if  these  flints  had  been  found  in  Quaternary 
deposits,  no  one  would  hesitate  to  regard  them  as  having  been 
chipped  intentionally.  De  Quatrefages  was  of  the  same  opinion, 
fresh  confirmation  of  which  is  being  received  through  the  recent 
researches  of  Capitan,  Rutot,  Courty,  and  others.  Until  the  ques- 
tion of  the  Thenay  specimens  is  settled,  those  from  Puy-Coumy 
may  be  regarded  as  the  oldest  known  artifacts,  geologists  being 
agreed  as  to  the  age  (Upper  Miocene)  of  the  deposit,  and  arche- 
ologists  as  to  the  genuineness  of  the  industry. 

The  Chalk  Plateau 

A  tradesman  or  Ightham,  Kent,  Mr  Benjamin  Harrison,  an 
enthusiastic  naturalist  who  had  been  collecting  paleoliths  from  the 
River  drift  of  the  neighborhood  for  years,  extended  his  field  of 
search  in  1885  to  include  the  summit  of  that  portion  of  the  Chalk 
plateau  which  lies  between  the  valley  of  the  Darent  on  the  west  and 

1  Two  other  stations  in  the  neighborhood  of  Puy-Coumy,  but  of  less  importance,  are 
Belbex  and  Puy-Boudieu. 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  429 

that  of  the  Medway  on  the  east.  Here,  at  heights  of  from  400  to 
600  feet  above  the  sea,  he  discovered  flints  supposed  to  have  been 
fashioned  by  the  hand  of  man. 

In  the  next  six  years  Harrison  brought  together  a  collection 
numbering  more  than  1,000  specimens.  In  the  meantime  (1888) 
his  researches  attracted  the  attention  of  Sir  Joseph  Prestwich,  whose 
country-seat  was  at  Shoreham  in  the  Darent  valley  near  by.  Thirty 
years  earlier,  Prestwich  had  confirmed  the  accuracy  of  Boucher  de 
Perthes's  discoveries  in  the  valley  of  the  Somme.  He  had  now 
found  a  second  Boucher  de  Perthes  nearer  home.  Harrison's  dis- 
coveries, however,  did  not  have  to  do  with  paleoliths,  but  with  the 
industry  of  a  much  earlier  date.  Here  the  geological  conditions 
are  entirely  different.  Harrison  left  the  paleoliths  and  the  Quater- 
nary behind  when  he  ascended  to  the  North  Downs.  The  speci- 
mens he  found  there  are  uniformly  and  deeply  stained  to  a  warm, 
ocherous  brown  color,  precisely  as  are  the  natural  flint  fragments 
associated  with  them,  the  coloring  matter  being  the  red  clay  in 
which  they  are  imbedded,  and  which  is  found  in  patches  capping 
the  summits  of  the  Chalk  plateau.  Associated  with  this  red  clay 
is  a  southern  drift,  carried  there  from  the  still  higher  elevations  to 
the  south,  at  a  time  when  the  chalk  bridged  the  present  fertile 
valleys  of  the  Weald  (woodland),  connecting  the  North  Downs  of 
Kent  with  the  South  Downs  of  Sussex. 

According  to  Prof.  Rupert  Jones,  the  implements  are  always 
accompanied  with  chert  and  ragstone  from  the  outcrop  of  Lower 
Greensand  on  the  side  of  the  old  Wealden  range  that  once  rose 
2,000  to  3,000  feet  over  what  are  now  Crowborough  and  other 
Sussex  hills.  The  red  clay  with  flints,  that  stained  the  implements, ' 
is,  on  the  contrary,  of  local  origin  and  occurs  over  other  areas  as 
well  as  those  reached  by  the  southern  drift  containing  the  rude 
implements. 

The  southern  drift  on  the  summit  of  the  plateau  is  older,  then, 
than  the  great  chalk  escarpment  or  the  valleys  of  the  Darent  and 
Medway,  which  drain  the  Wealden  district  and,  on  their  way  north- 
ward to  the  Thames,  cut  the  Chalk  plateau  into  three  sections. 
The  escarpment  and  the  broad  valleys  of  the  present  drainage 
system  are  older  than  the  gravel   terraces  occurring  at  various 


430  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

levels  in  the  valleys.     But,  according  to  Prestwich,  all  these  ter- 
races up  to  a  height  of  about  340  feet  above  sea-level  are  of  post- 
glacial age  and  contain  flint  implements  of  the  paleolithic  type. 
The  paleoliths  associated  with  bones  of  the  Mammoth  and  woolly 
rhinoceros  found  in  the  gravel-pits  at  Aylesford,^  only  a  few  feet 
above  the  present  bed  of  the  Medway,  are  later  than  those  found  in 
the  high-level  valley  terraces ;  these  in  turn  are  subsequent  to  the 
great  denudation  that  swept  away  the  chalk  bridge  spanning  the 
Weald  and  uniting  the  North  and  South  Downs ;  and  finally,  from 
the  very  nature  of  things,  this  enormous  denudation  must  have 
taken  place  subsequent  to  the  time  when  the  southern  drift  was 
carried  northward  and  deposited  with  the  red  clay  on  the  summit 
of  the  North  Downs,  where  patches  of  it  still  exist. 

Other  evidence  conclusive  of  the  great  antiquity  of  the  plateau 
drift,  as  well  as  of  the  successive  river  drifts  of  the  Thames  valley, 
may  be  furnished  by  a  section  (figure  1 5)  extending  from  the  Lower 
Greensand  hills,  near  Ightham,  northward  to  the  Thames  at  Milton 
Street.  Such  a  section  would  pass  through  the  summit  level  of 
Swanscombe  hill,  capped  by  Tertiary  strata  and  forming  an  outlier 
of  the  older  drift.  This  hill  with  its  spread  of  southern  drift,  though 
not  much  more  than  300  feet  high,  corresponds  with  the  gradient 
of  the  plateau  if  extended  southward  and  upward  till  it  reaches 
West  Yoke  and  Ash,  where  Harrison  found  some  of  his  first  speci- 
mens. At  Milton  Street,  north  of  Swanscombe  hill,  and  near  the 
village  of  Swanscombe,  the  high-level  river  drift  is  met  with  at  an 
elevation  200  feet  lower  than  the  plateau  drift  on  the  summit  of 
Swanscombe  hill.  The  Milton  Street  river  drift  is  100  feet  above 
the  Thames,  and  contains  flint  implements  of  the  well-known  amyg- 
daloid (Chellean)  type  ;  while  at  a  still  lower  level  are  brick-earths 
and  gravel  in  which,  associated  with  Quaternary  mammalian  re- 
mains, are  found  flint  implements  of  a  type  later  than  those  at 
Milton  Street.  Hence,  there  are  at  least  three  distinct  and  succes- 
sive steps  from  Ash  down  to  the  Thames  :  plateau  drift  with  eoliths, 
high-level  river  drift  with  paleoliths,  and  low-level  river  drift  with 
paleoliths  of  a  more  perfected  type.     These  epochs  do  not  include 

1 1  found  remains  of  both  Mammoth  and  Rhinoceros  in  the  pits  at  Aylesford.     I  also 
obtained  from  one  of  the  workmen  a  flint  implement  of  the  Acheulian  type. 


MACCUKDV] 


THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM 


the  neolithic  culture  of  the  region,  evidence 
of  which  may  be  found  on  the  surface  at  all 
levels. 

The  section  described  does  not  cut  the 
Chalk  plateau  through  its  highest  elevation, 
which,  at  ntsey  hill,  west  of  the  Darent  val- 
ley, is  864  feet  above  the  sea.  Even  here, 
De  Barri  Crawshay  found  a  patch  of  red 
Clay  and  southern  drift,  with  implements  of 
the  plateau  type.  This  drill  was  trans- 
ported across  the  chalk  escarpment  and 
the  chalk  plain  into  the  Thames  valley 
along  lines  independent  of  the  present  drain- 
age ;  the  patches  that  now  cap  the  highest 
points  marking  what  were  then  the  valleys. 

Prestwich  thinks  the  southern  drift  may 
be  of  later  date  than  the   locally  derived 
red  clay  with  which  it  is  so  intimately  asso- 
ciated.    Both  are  older  than  the  northern 
drift  or  bowlder-clay  and  newer  than  the 
outcrop   of  Tertiary   strata  that  caps  the 
chalk  at  Swanscombc  hill.     Prestwich  calls    : 
them  simply  prc-glacial,  Rutot  places  them    i 
in  the   Middle    Pliocene.     The   geological 
age  of  the  plateau  drift  could   be   deter- 
mined still  more  definitely  were  it  not  for 
two  missing  links  in  the  chain  of  evidence. 
In  the  first  place,  the  Tertiary  series  of  de- 
posits are  not  all  present.     The  second 
difficulty  arises  from  the  absence  of  organic  -j 
remains,   the   property   of  the   infiltrating    j 
waters  being  such  as  to  dissolve  all  cal-    \ 
careous  elements  as  completely  as  if  they 
were  lumps  of  sugar.     As  soon,  however, 
as  the  high-level  river  terraces  are  reached,    \ 
the  older  type  of  paleoliths  are  found  in  as- 
sociation with  a  fauna  in  part  now  extinct. 


I'S 


432  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

The  Shelly  gravel-pit  at  Swanscombe  is  a  good  example.  I  am  in- 
debted to  Mrs  Stopes,  wife  of  the  late  Henry  Stopes,  for  some 
excellent  examples  of  early  paleoliths  from  this  pit  which  has  fur- 
nished remains  of  Elephas  antiquus,  Elephas  primigenius,  Corbicula 
iluminalis,  and  many  other  species,  living  as  well  as  extinct. 

There  is  no  doubt  as  to  the  great  age  (pre-gladal)  of  the  plateau 
deposit  of  red  clay  with  flints  and  southern  drift,  even  though  the 
fauna  has  not  been  preserved.  There  remain,  however,  two  other 
questions  to  be  disposed  of,  namely :  (i)  Do  the  specimens  found 
by  Harrison  bear  marks  of  use  by  man  or  of  design  in  form  ?  —  and 
(2)  Are  they  as  old  as  the  patches  of  clay  and  drift  on  the  summit 
of  the  plateau?  Prestwich  answers  both  these  questions  in  the 
affirmative. 

Before  formulating  answers  of  my  own  or  even  accepting  those 
of  another,  I  determined  to  study  the  problems  involved  at  closer 
range.  Photographic  reproductions  and  drawings  of  specimens 
shaped  into  definite  patterns  may  give  one  absolutely  true  impres- 
sions of  the  originals.  They  are,  on  the  other  hand,  far  from  satis- 
factory in  the  case  of  the  rudely-shaped  eoliths.  Therefore,  I  spent 
a  part  of  the  summer  of  1903  in  Kent  with  Harrison  himself  and 
with  Mr  Percival  A.  B.  Martin  of  Chipstead,  Sevenoaks,  a  trained 
collector  and  disciple  of  Harrison.  Before  going  to  the  field,  I 
made  a  careful  study  of  the  important  series  collected  by  both  these 
investigators,  who  placed  themselves  as  well  as  their  collections 
unreservedly  at  my  disposal.  Mr  Martin  gave  additional  facilities 
in  the  use  of  his  automobile  during  my  week's  stay,  thus  rendering 
it  possible  to  accomplish  much  in  a  comparatively  short  time.  We 
made  the  ascent  by  the  Vigo  to  the  Chalk  plateau,  and  visited  many 
of  the  best-known  stations  on  the  summit.  Collections  were  made 
at  several  of  these  places,  especially  at  Fairseat  and  in  Terry's  Lodge 
pit,  opened  the  previous  year  by  Messrs  Harrison  and  Benton  (of 
Mailing)  and  at  their  joint  expense. 

My  excursions  in  Kent  were  supplemented  by  visits  to  the  col- 
lections of  the  British  Museum  at  Bloomsbury  and  South  Kensing- 
ton, as  well  as  to  the  private  collection  of  Mr  W.  J.  Lewis  Abbott 
at  St  Leonard's-on-Sea.  The  eoliths  in  the  British  Museum, 
Bloomsbury,  were  collected  on  the  North  Downs  by  Harrison. 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  433 

The  larger  and  more  characteristic  collection  at  South  Kensington 
is  the  gift  of  Sir  Joseph  and  Lady  Prestwich,  and  includes  the 
specimens  figfured  in  Prestwich's  **  Collected  Papers  on  some  Con- 
troverted Questions  of  Geology."  These  also  for  the  greater  part 
were  collected  by  Harrison. 

Mr  Abbott,  of  St  Leonard's-on-Sea,  was  for  many  years  a  resident 
of  Sevenoaks  and  is  perhaps  as  well  acquainted  with  prehistoric  Kent 
as  anyone.  His  collection  is  one  of  the  most  important,  and  his 
technical  knowledge  of  the  problems  involved  in  the  art  of  chipping 
flint  is  of  the  first  order.  I  spent  two  days  with  him,  including  a 
visit  to  the  local  Museum  at  Hastings  in  which  he  is  much  interested 
and  where  a  part  of  his  collection  has  already  been  installed.  To 
him  and  to  Messrs  Harrison  and  Martin  I  am  indebted  for  a  num- 
ber of  valuable  specimens  as  well  as  for  information  and  guidance 
in  the  field. 

Returning  now  to  the  questions  already  propounded  in  the  light 
of  what  I  saw  in  Kent,  Sussex,  and  London,  I  feel  impelled  to  ac- 
cept the  conclusions  of  Prestwich,  namely,  that  many  of  these  pla- 
teau flints  bear  the  impress  of  man's  handiwork.  The  marks  are 
often  the  result  of  use  alone  and  not  of  design.  This  is  due  partly 
to  the  fact  that  the  people  of  that  time  did  not  know  how  to  obtain 
the  raw  materials  from  the  chalk,  but  depended  entirely  on  picking 
up  from  the  drift  natural  flakes  of  approximately  the  shape  and  size 
needed.  A  sharp  edge  was  utilized  once,  twice,  or  until  it  became 
dulled,  and  was  then  cast  aside.  The  signs  of  use,  though  slight, 
are  unmistakable.  If  an  angular  piece  did  not  admit  of  being  com- 
fortably grasped  in  the  hand,  the  troublesome  comers  were  removed. 
Some  pieces  were  used  simply  as  hammer-  or  trimming-stones. 
Perhaps  a  majority  of  the  specimens  show  no  special  design  in  their 
shape.  Many,  however,  may  be  grouped  according  to  more  or  less 
definite  patterns.  Prestwich  recognizes  three  such  groups.  The 
first  is  rather  numerous,  including  thin,  flat  fragments  of  flint  or 
natural  flakes  with  chippings  and  notches  along  the  margins,  pro- 
ducing at  times  rude  points ;  split  flint  pebbles  of  Tertiary  age  with 
edges  chipped  to  serve  as  scrapers ;  and  flints  that,  with  a  little 
trimming,  could  be  easily  grasped  in  the  hand  and  used  as  hammer- 
stones.     The  second  group  is  the  largest  of  all  and  is  characterized 


434  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

by  various  types  of  scrapers.  Two  of  these  deserve  special  men- 
tion, viz.,  the  small  crescent-shaped  scrapers  comparable  to  the 
spoke-shave,  and  the  double  scrapers  with  an  intervening  point 
separating  the  two  scraping  edges.  The  third  group  is  small  and 
is  represented  by  various  fling-stones  and  drill-shaped  implements. 

In  every  case  the  eolith  does  not  represent  so  much  a  precon- 
ceived form  of  implement  as  a  resultant  of  a  given  natural  form 
modified  by  certain  marks  of  utilization,  of  adaptation,  or  by  series 
of  retouches.  The  shape  of  a  chosen  flake  was  not  wholly  deter- 
mined by  the  uses  for  which  it  was  intended,  but  was  limited  largely 
by  the  variety  in  Nature's  supply  of  the  raw  material.  The  dis- 
covery that  knives  and  forks  were  the  best  substitutes  for  teeth  and 
fingers  was  not  made  in  a  single  generation.  It  is  safe,  therefore, 
to  assume  that  it  took  the  combined  effort  of  generations  of  eolithic 
experimenters  to  arrive  at  the  idea  of  correlating  a  given  form  of 
tool  with  a  given  use  or  series  of  uses.  As  long  as  any  flake 
served  the  purpose  of  the  workman.  Nature's  supply  sufficed.  As 
soon  as  it  was  learned  that  a  certain  form  of  implement  served  him 
better  in  certain  instances  than  any  other  form,  he  discovered  that 
it  would  not  do  to  depend  on  the  chance  finding  of  specimens 
suited  to  his  growing  needs.  This  led  him  of  necessity  to  supple- 
ment the  natural  supply,  a  lesson  which  was  not  learned  until  the 
beginning  of  paleolithic  times,  as  we  shall  soon  see. 

How  very  different  are  the  valley  implements  !  Their  makers 
no  longer  depended  on  pebbles  and  angular  fragments,  but  knew 
how  to  extract  the  raw  material  direct  from  the  chalk.  With  the 
use  of  large,  fresh,  flint  nodules,  the  art  of  chipping  developed 
rapidly.  The  establishment  of  local  workshops  followed  as  a  logi- 
cal consequence.  Some  of  these  workshops  have  been  left  undis- 
turbed so  as  to  make  it  possible  to  reconstruct  large  flint  nodules 
and  cores  from  the  numerous  chips  and  implements  strewn  over  a 
paleolithic  floor.  Mr  F.  C.  J.  Spurrell  ^  found  such  a  workshop 
at  Crayford,  Kent.  The  series  he  obtained  there  forms  an  inter- 
esting exhibit  at  the  Museum  of  Natural  History,  South  Kensing- 
ton. Similar  discoveries  have  been  made  by  Mr  J.  Allen  Brown 
at  Acton,  and  by  Mr  Worthington  G.  Smith  at  Stoke  Newington 

1  Quar.  Jour,  Geol.  Soc,  1880,  xxxvi,  544. 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  435 

and  Caddington.  During  the  summer  of  1900  it  was  my  good 
fortune  to  visit  several  of  the  clay  pits  about  Caddington  in  com- 
pany with  Mr  Smith  and  to  see  in  one  of  the  pits  a  typical  paleo- 
lithic floor. 

Are  the  plateau  implements  as  old  as  the  drift  with  which  they 
are  associated  ?  Might  they  not  have  been  dropped  on  the  surface 
of  the  Downs  in  paleolithic  or  even  in  recent  times  ?  Unpolished 
neolithic  implements  may  be  met  with  on  the  surface  at  any  level ; 
but  they  differ  in  both  form  and  condition  from  the  specimens  in 
question.  Their  edges  are  often  dulled,  but  never  water- worn. 
The  originally  dark  surfaces  have  taken  on  a  whitish  luster  and  are 
more  or  less  plough-stained.  The  eoliths,  on  the  contrary,  are 
uniformly  stained  on  the  natural  as  well  as  on  the  worked  surfaces, 
to  a  deep,  ocherous  brown  color,  and  usually  bear  marks  of  drift 
action. 

The  neoliths  are  confined  to  the  surface,  but  are  not  limited 
geographically.  The  eoliths  are  limited  geographically,  but,  as  we 
shall  see  later,  are  not  confined  to  surface  finds.  They  are  coex- 
tensive with  the  old  drift.  But  this  drift  is  found  in  patches  only, 
much  of  it  long  since  having  been  removed  from  the  summit  of  the 
Downs  by  denudation.  If  the  patches  that  are  left  yield  eoliths, 
others  must  have  been  carried  away  along  with  the  drift  to  the 
valleys  below,  where  one  would  expect  to  find  them  as  derived 
specimens.  A  few  such  examples  have  been  obtained  after  careful 
search.  Figures  i  and  2,  plate  xxv,  a,  belong  to  this  category. 
I  found  them  in  a  middle  terrace  gravel-pit  near  Famham,  Surrey. 
I  also  obtained  two  paleoliths  of  the  usual  type  from  the  same  pit. 
The  derived  implement  shown  in  figure  I  is  a  natural  flint  flake, 
4.5  cm.  in  length.  The  slightly  convex  surface  of  fracture  is 
stained  bluish  white,  and  the  rusty  white  crust  is  retained  intact  over 
the  outer  surface.  The  chipping,  which  is  confined  to  a  single 
lateral  margin,  was  done  with  so  much  care  that  an  overhanging 
prominence  of  the  external  crust,  which  would  be  supposed  to  re- 
ceive the  first  ill-directed  blow,  was  left  untouched.  The  prominence 
might  well  have  served  both  as  a  rest  and  as  a  protection  for  the 
thumb.  The  specimen  shown  in  figure  2  is  likewise  a  natural  flake. 
It  is  weathered  more  deeply  than  the  preceding.     The  piece  is 


436  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

triangular  in  shape.  The  chipping  is  confined  to  the  longest  mar- 
gin, the  blows  being  given  from  one  direction  and  in  the  same 
plane.     Nowhere  else  is  there  evidence  of  even  accidental  blows. 

Harrison's  first  plateau  discoveries  were  made  on  the  surface, 
in  shallow  plough  furrows  or  in  trenches  and  roadside  cuttings. 
Their  deep  staining,  however,  led  Prestwich  to  believe  that  the 
specimens  had  been  imbedded  in  a  deposit  beneath  the  surface. 
An  implement  from  a  post-hole  at  Kingsdown,  one  from  a  hole  dug 
two  feet  deep  for  tree-planting  at  Parsonage  farm,  a  third  from  two 
or  more  feet  beneath  the  surface  in  a  bank  of  red  clay  at  the  side 
of  a  pond,  and  a  fourth  at  an  equal  depth  in  red  clay  at  the  Vigo 
gap,  served  to  strengthen  Prestwich' s  view. 

In  1894  the  British  Association  for  the  Advancement  of  Science 
appointed  a  committee  "  to  investigate  the  nature  and  probable  age 
of  the  high-level  flint-drift  in  the  face  of  the  Chalk  escarpment  near 
Ightham,  which  appears  to  be  productive  of  flakes  and  other  forms 
of  flint  probably  wrought  by  the  hand  of  man."  A  grant  was 
placed  at  the  disposal  of  this  committee,  which  consisted  of  Sir 
John  Evans  (chairman).  Professor  Prestwich,  Prof  H.  G.  Seeley, 
and  Mr  Benjamin  Harrison  (secretary).  Mr  Pink,  the  owner  of 
Parsonage  farm,  Stanstead,  had  previously  sunk  a  pit  in  the  drift, 
and  had  found  plateau  implements  at  a  depth  of  six  or  seven  feet. 
Adjoining  this,  the  committee's  first  pit  was  sunk  through  two  and 
a  half  feet  of  '*  humus  and  drifted  material,  white  flints,  pebbles, 
and  many  ochreous  flints  worn  and  worked  "  ;  ^  three  and  a  half 
feet  of  "  grey  loam,  with  scattered  small  pebbles,  and  a  few  small, 
worked,  ochreous  flints  throughout";  and  one  foot  of  compact 
gravel  with  many  worked  flints.  A  second  pit  was  sunk  near  by 
and  revealed  **  precisely  similar  conditions."  The  latter  was  sunk 
to  a  depth  of  twenty-six  feet,  most  of  the  way  through  Lower 
Tertiary  pebbles  without  reaching  the  Chalk.  No  implements 
were  found  below  a  depth  of  eight  feet. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Mr  W.  J.  Lewis  Abbott,  the  Yale  Uni- 
versity Museum  possesses  an  eolith  (plate  xxv,  b,  fig.  2)  that  was 
found  in  situ  in  the  first  pit  sunk  on  Parsonage  farm,  Stanstead,  the 
year  before  work  was  begun  by  the  British  Association.    It  is  a  large 

*  British  Association  Report^  1895,  P*  349* 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  437 

natural  flake,  the  greatest  diameter  being  9.7  cm.  The  outer  sur- 
face retains  the  crust  of  the  original  nodule,  the  inner  is  stained  yel- 
lowish brown.  In  shape  it  resembles  the  feline  foot,  trimmed  in  the 
region  of  the  toes,  the  heel  left  untouched,  and  a  deep  notch  near 
the  heel  carefully  worked.  It  might  have  been  used  as  a  hammer 
or  trimming-stone,  and  the  crescent-shaped  notch  near  the  heel 
could  well  serve  as  a  spoke-shave.  The  specimen  represented  in 
figure  I  of  the  same  plate,  also  the  gift  of  Mr  Abbott,  is  from  Fawk- 
ham,  some  distance  to  the  north  of  Stanstead.  It  is  a  natural  flake 
from  the  old  flint  drift,  and  is  much  more  deeply  weathered  than  the 
one  from  the  Stanstead  pit.  Eoliths  of  this  general  type  may  have 
been  used  as  strigils  as  illustrated  by  the  Apoxyomenos  statue  in  the 
Vatican,  or  after  the  manner  of  the  natives  of  Tierra  del  Fuego, 
who  will  not  easily  part  with  their  much-prized  body-stones.  In 
this  connection  it  should  be  mentioned  that  the  illustrations  accom- 
panying this  paper  are  of  specimens  from  the  collections  made  by 
me  during  the  summer  of  1903.  Some  I  found  myself,  others  were 
obtained  from  local  collectors.  All  are  now  the  property  of  the 
Yale  University  Museum. 

The  eoliths  figured  in  plate  xxvi,  a,  were  found  at  South  Ash 
by  Mr  Benjamin  Harrison.  Figure  2  is  one  of  the  largest  eoliths 
in  the  Yale  collection,  its  greatest  diagonal  dimensions  being  12  cm. 
The  inner,  flat  surface  is  stained  to  a  deep,  warm  brown  color  which 
spreads  also  over  the  trimmed  edges,  where  it  is  only  slightly  less 
pronounced  in  tone.  The  flake  was,  therefore,  evidently  not  fresh 
when  first  utilized.  The  working  was  all  done  in  one  direction,  the 
blows  being  aimed  toward  the  outer  crust.  Chance  chipping  would 
have  reduced  the  somewhat  prominent  heel  which,  though  angular, 
serves  admirably  as  a  handhold.  Figure  i  is  a  double  scraper, 
with  an  intervening  point  between  the  two  scraping  edges.  The 
base  has  been  retouched  enough  to  make  it  fit  the  hand  more  com- 
fortably. The  worked  surfaces  are  covered  with  a  mottled  stain  of 
bluish  gray  and  buff,  while  the  flat  surface  of  fracture  has  taken  on 
a  warmer  hue. 

Mention  has  already  been  made  of  Terry's  Lodge  pit  opened  in 
1902  by  Messrs  Harrison  and  Benton.  On  the  occasion  of  our  visit 
to  this  pit,  which  is  sunk  to  a  depth  of  about  five  feet,  very  near  the 


438  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

face  of  the  chalk  escarpment  at  a  point  700  feet  above  sea-level, 
we  were  successful  in  finding,  after  an  hour's  digging,  two  speci- 
mens ^  in  situ  that  were  evidently  worked.  Two  worked  {ueces 
were  also  picked  up  from  the  heap  of  clay  and  gravel  thrown  out 
when  the  pit  was  first  opened.  These  are  both  illustrated  in  plate 
XXV,  A,  figs.  3  and  4.  They  are  natural  flakes  stained  to  a  rich, 
reddish  brown  color.  The  specimen  represented  by  figure  3  is  a 
crescent-shaped  scraper  of  the  spoke-shave  type,  and  may  be  classed 
with  Prestwich's  second  group  referred  to  on  page  434.  Figure  4 
is  an  example  of  the  first  group.  It  is  roughly  triangular  in  shape ; 
the  two  margins  which  meet  at  the  apex  are  both  worked,  but  on 
opposite  sides.  In  other  words,  after  chipping  one  of  the  margins, 
instead  of  rotating  the  specimen  until  the  adjacent  margin  was 
brought  into  play,  it  was  reversed.  Pieces  that  show  reversed 
chipping  would  seem  to  possess  special  claim  to  consideration  as 
artifacts.  One  loves  to  think  of  Chance  as  being  unhampered  in 
her  actions.  It  would  tend  to  upset  one's  habitual  regard  for  her 
strict  impartiality  to  find  her,  for  instance,  not  only  bunching  her 
blows  along  a  single  margin  of  a  flint  flake,  but  also  administering 
them  in  a  given  plane  and  from  a  given  direction.  To  go  further 
and  demand  that  she  should  reverse  the  flake  before  beginning  on 
an  adjacent  margin  would  be  to  ignore  all  the  rules  of  probability. 

My  experiences  in  the  field,  as  may  be  inferred,  served  at  every 
point  to  strengthen  my  belief  in  Prestwich's  conclusions  ;  namely, 
that  the  plateau  specimens  bear  marks  of  man's  handiwork,  and  that 
they  sustain  the  same  relation  to  the  old  southern  drift  as  the  valley 
specimens  do  to  the  gravel  terraces  in  which  they  are  found.  Prest- 
wich's  views  are  shared  by  practically  all  the  many  archeologists 
who  have  made  personal  investigations  in  the  field. 

Kent  is  not  the  only  county  in  which  the  eoliths  occur.  Mr 
O.  A.  Shrubsole,  of  Reading,  found  them  in  Berkshire  soon  after 
Harrison's  first  discoveries  on  the  North  Downs.  They  have  also 
been  found  under  similar  conditions  by  Martin  on  the  South  Downs 


1  The  best  one  of  these,  together  with  other  plateau  specimens,  was  used  to  illustrate 
a  paper  read  before  Section  H  at  the  St  Louis  Meeting  of  the  A.  A.  A.  S.,  1903-04.  As 
it  disappeared,  mysteriously,  on  that  occasion,  I  conclude  that  it  must  have  been  con- 
vincing to  at  least  one  member  of  the  audience. 


'ill 


iiACx:URDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  439 

at  Beachy  Head,  near  Eastbourne,  Sussex  ;  by  Blackmore,  BuUen, 
and  others  near  Salisbury,  Wilts  ;  and  in  Dorset ;  also  in  Surrey, 
Hampshire,  the  southern  part  of  Essex,  and  Norfolk.  For  details 
of  the  various  discoveries,  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  bibliography 
accompanying  this  paper. 

The  deposits  investigated  by  Shrubsole  consist  of  pre-glacial 
gravel  beds,  from  five  to  ten  feet  in  thickness,  that  cover  **  the 
summit  of  an  elongated  plateau  stretching  from  Easthampstead, 
Berks,  to  Ash  Common,  near  Aldershot."  They  are  composed  of 
the  same  southern  drift  that  has  furnished  the  implements  found  on 
the  North  Downs,  and  had  their  origin  in  the  heights  that  once  rose 
over  what  is  now  the  Wealden  district  to  the  south  and  southwest. 

The  gravel-capped  plateau  rises  to  an  average  level  of  about  400 
feet  above  the  sea,  and  **  forms  the  highest  ground  between  the 
rivers  Wey  and  Blackwater."  The  specimens  described  came  chiefly 
from  Finchampstead,  Easthampstead,  and  from  near  Bagshot.  They 
present  precisely  the  same  general  aspect  as  do  those  from  the  North 
Downs.  Shrubsole  believes  them  to  be  as  old  as  or  older  than  the 
gravel  beds.  His  opinion  is  based  on  their  mineral  condition,  and 
on  the  fact  that  he,  himself,  took  them  "  from  the  gravel  freshly 
fallen  from  the  face  of  the  pits,  or  from  the  heaps  of  screened  gravel 
in  the  pits."  It  is  pointed  out  that  no  artificial  flakes  and  no  im- 
plements of  the  amygdaloid  type  have  been  found  in  these  gravels 
—  a  bit  of  negative  evidence  that  gathers  much  weight  when  cor- 
related with  evidence  of  the  same  nature  from  other  parts  of  the 
country.^ 

The  gravels  rest  upon  what  Shrubsole  calls  the  Upper  Bagshot. 
But,  according  to  Geikie,^  there  is  no  marked  separation  between 
the  Upper  and  the  Middle  Bagshot  series  in  the  London  basin. 
They  may  be,  therefore,  of  either  Middle  or  Upper  Eocene  age. 
The  gravels  capping  them  are  newer ;  probably  Upper  Pliocene, 
since  Prestwich  was  disposed  to  regard  them  as  corresponding 
broadly  in  time  with  the  Chillesford  and  Forest-bed  groups,  and 
these  are  Upper  Pliocene.*  If  fluviatile,  they  **  would  be  the  work 
of  a  stream  which  for  a  long  time  has  ceased  to  exist,  since  its  bed 

»  Textbook  of  Geology ^  4th  ed.,  1903,  p.  1233. 
«lbid.,  p.  1281. 


440  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  S.,  7,  1905 

now  occupies  the  summit  of  a  hill-range,  and  on  the  sites  of  the 
former  hills  are  now  river  valleys." 

Dr  H.  P.  Blackmore's  discovery  at  Dewlish,  Dorset,  of  eoliths 
associated  with  the  remains  of  Elephas  meridionalis  was  announced 
to  the  Victoria  Institute  in  1900,  through  a  letter  to  the  Rev.  R. 
Ashington  Bullen.  The  Blackmore  Museum  in  Salisbury  is  of 
special  interest  to  Americans  because  it  contains  the  famous  Squier 
and  Davis  collection  of  antiquities  from  the  Mississippi  valley,  pur> 
chased  by  Blackmore  before  its  value  was  appreciated  in  this  country. 
The  same  museum  now  possesses  an  important  collection  of  eoliths. 
Many  of  these  were  found  by  Dr  Blackmore  in  the  Alderbury 
gravels  near  Salisbury,  he  having  taken  them  out  of  the  gravels  at 
all  levels,  to  a  depth  of  fourteen  feet,  with  his  own  hands.  These 
Alderbury  gravels  were  classed  as  Southern  Drift  by  Prestwich. 
Like  the  deposits  on  the  Kent  plateau,  they  are  not  fossiliferous. 
They  rest  upon  the  Bagshot  sands,  and  "  are  at  a  much  higher 
level  than  the  river  drift,  which  furnishes  both  flint  paleolithic  im> 
plements  and  a  very  good  list  of  Pleistocene  mammals  and  shells." 

The  Alderbury  gravels  are  exploited  largely  for  road-metalling ; 
and  for  twenty  years,  at  least,  the  pits  have  been  searched  in  vain 
for  implements  of  the  well-known  paleolithic  type.  On  the  other 
hand,  specimens  of  this  type  are  fairly  plentiful  in  the  river-drift 
terraces  of  the  neighborhood. 

In  his  effort  to  establish  the  age  of  the  eoliths  by  means  of 
paleontological  evidence,  Dr  Blackmore  had  recourse  to  a  patch  of 
gravel  in  Dorset,  where  his  grandfather  had  found  a  molar  of  Ele- 
phas meridionalis,  as  long  ago  as  1813  ;  and  where  he,  himself, 
was  present  at  the  discovery,  in  1887,  of  the  remains  of  Elephas 
meridionalis  now  in  the  Dorchester  Museum. 

Dr  Blackmore,  in  describing  his  search  for  eoliths,  writes : 

"  Being  very  anxious  to  fix  the  Pliocene  age  of  these  eoliths  [mean- 
ing those  from  near  Salisbury] ,  rather  more  than  a  year  ago  I  went  down 
to  Dewlish,  in  Dorset,  with  the  express  purpose  of  carefully  examining 
the  gravel  which  had  furnished  the  remains  of  Elephas  meridionalis,  as 
this  was  the  one  spot  in  the  South  of  England  which  was  regarded  as  a 
patch  of  Pliocene  gravel. 

**  The  farmer,  Mr.  Kent,  on  whose  land  the  elephant  remains  were 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  44 1 

found,  was  fortunately  known  to  me,  and  he  furnished  me  with  two 
labourers.  A  trench  was  opened  through  the  deposit  of  gravel,  and  there 
was  no  difficulty  in  finding  eoliths,  stained  like  the  gravel,  at  the  same 
level  and  associated  with  the  elephant  bones.  This  was  to  me  most 
satisfactory  and  conclusive. ' ' 

A  recent  letter  to  me  from  Mr  Percival  A.  B.  Martin  describes 
a  new  locality  for  eoliths  about  six  miles  west  of  Elastboume,  as 
follows : 

"  The  plateau  drift  caps  a  hill  that  is  about  600  feet  above  sea  level, 
and  evidently  belongs  to  the  same  spread  of  drift  as  that  at  Beachy  Head, 
which  also  was  the  bottom  of  a  very  ancient  valley,  the  vestiges  of  which 
are  now  preserved  only  on  the  very  highest  points  of  the  district." 

The  Chalk  cliffs  at  Beachy  Head  are  familiar  to  every  Channel 
voyager.  The  Chalk  suddenly  disappears  at  Eastbourne  and  does 
not  reappear  until  one  is  opposite  Dover,  a  distance  of  more  than 
50  miles.  It  is  not  generally  known  that  the  cliffs  at  Beachy  Head 
and  Dover  are  the  bases  of  a  great  anticlinal  fold  whose  axis  passes 
from  Dungeness  in  a  westerly  direction  through  Hampshire.  The 
crest  of  the  fold,  including  not  only  the  Chalk  beds  but  also  the 
underlying  strata  of  Upper  Greensand,  Gault,  Lower  Greensand, 
and  Weald,  has  disappeared.  If,  before  it  disappeared,  the  old 
drift  and  eoliths  were  transported  northward  and  left  on  the  North 
Downs,  the  same  old  drifl  with  eoliths  must  have  been  carried 
southward  and  deposited  on  the  South  Downs.  A  line  drawn  from 
Ash  to  Beachy  Head  would  cut  the  axis  of  the  fold  at  right  angles. 
Martin  thought  he  ought  to  find  the  old  drift  with  eoliths  at  Beachy 
Head,  and  we  have  just  seen  how  his  search  has  been  rewarded. 

Both  plateaus  are  but  slender  tongues  from  the  great  Chalk 
plain  of  Dorset,  Wiltshire,  and  Hampshire,  the  tip  of  one  being  at 
Dover,  that  of  the  other  at  Beachy  Head.  Each  will  be  explored 
eventually  throughout  its  extent  The  Chalk  plain  itself  may  be 
relied  on  for  localities  other  than  those  already  discovered.  The 
Chalk  is  also  continuous  all  the  way  from  Dorset  and  Salisbury 
Plain  in  a  northeasterly  direction  to  Cromer  on  the  Norfolk  coast. 
At  the  southwestern  extremity  of  this  Chalk  belt  Dr  Blackmore 
found  eoliths  associated  with  the  remains  of  Elephas  meridionalis ; 
at  its  northeastern  extremity,  Abbott  found  a  like  association  in 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  J — 30 


442  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

deposits  of  the  same  age.  The  results  of  the  researches  of  Worth- 
ington  G.  Smith  at  Caddington,  near  Dunstable,  about  midway  be- 
tween Dewlish  and  Cromer,  are  an  indication  of  the  possibilities  of 
the  entire  Chalk  belt. 

Mr  W.  J.  Lewis  Abbott's  discovery,  mentioned  above,  was 
made  while  searching  the  Elephas  deposits  of  the  Cromer  Forest 
bed,  to  the  west  of  East  Runton.  In  the  same  level  with  Elephas 
meridionalis,  Abbott  found  several  worked  flints,  two  in  situ  ;  others, 
because  of  their  peculiar  staining,  evidently  from  the  same  bed.  I 
saw  these  specimens,  and  with  Abbott  believe  in  their  artificial 
character.  Rutot,  of  Brussels,  to  whom  Abbott  sent  the  specimens 
for  examination,  is  of  the  same  opinion.  An  added  interest  at- 
taches to  the  Forest  bed  implements  in  view  of  the  recent  researches 
by  Laville  and  Rutot  in  the  Upper  Pliocene  deposits  at  Saint- Prest, 
near  Chartres,  the  station  that  came  into  prominence  nearly  forty 
years  ago  through  the  discoveries  of  the  Abbe  Bourgeois. 

Belgium 

Reference  has  already  been  made  to  early  discoveries  bearing  on 
a  pre-paleolithic  industry  in  France  and  Portugal.  In  recent  years 
the  theater  of  interest  and  action  has  centered  in  Belgium,  owing 
largely  to  the  researches  of  Dr  A.  Rutot,  of  the  Royal  Museum  of 
Natural  History,  Brussels.  Admirably  fitted  by  special  training  in 
engineering  and  geology,  Rutot  early  took  up  the  study  of  the 
Belgian  Quaternary.  This  work  led  naturally  to  the  subject  of 
prehistoric  anthropology  (Quaternary  and  Pliocene),  and  to  the 
work  of  such  men  as  Gabriel  de  Mortillet.  But  Rutot  did  not 
believe  in  the  new  faith  preached  by  de  Mortillet,  and  in  laying  deep 
and  broad  plans  to  compass  its  destruction,  he  was  led  gradually  to 
the  conclusion  that  some  at  least  of  its  tenets  were  true  in  the 
main.  The  chief  difficulty  was  that,  being  in  advance  of  his  time, 
de  Mortillet's  work  lacked  the  benefit  of  that  constructive  criticism 
without  which  a  founder's  work  is  apt  to  prove  faulty  when  the 
time  comes  to  add  the  superstructure.  Rutot  has  endeavored  to 
retain  the  sound  construction  and  to  eliminate  the  faulty.  The 
foundations  have  been  enlarged,  and  there  has  arisen  a  super- 
structure embodying  as  nearly  as  possible  the  ideas  that  are  likely 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  443 

to  survive.     The  chief  cornerstones  of  the  Rutot  edifice  are  stratig- 
raphy and  paleontology. 

It  must  not  be  inferred  that  Belgium  had  contributed  nothing 
toward  a  solution  of  the  eolithic  problem  before  Rutot* s  time.  The 
name  of  Gustave  Neyrinckx  has  already  been  mentioned  in  connec- 
tion with  the  committee  appointed  by  the  International  Congress 
of  Anthropology  and  Prehistoric  Archeology  (held  at  Brussels  in 
1872),  to  pass  judgment  on  the  Thenay  specimens  presented  by  the 
Abbe  Bourgeois.  To  Neyrinckx  belongs  the  honor  of  being  the 
first  discoverer  of  eoliths  in  Belgium ;  but  he  did  not  live  to  see  the 
fruits  of  his  discovery  mature.  The  value  of  his  pioneer  work  is 
now  recognized,  and  the  specimens  he  found  in  the  newly-made 
railway  cut  at  Mesvin,  between  Mons  and  Harmignies,  in  1 868,  are 
now  a  highly-prized  possession  of  the  Royal  Museum  of  Natural 
History,  Brussels.  M.  !^mile  Delvaux  next  took  up  the  work  at 
Mesvin,  where  he  succeeded  in  determining  stratigraphically  a 
pre-chellean  industry  to  which  he  gave  the  name  Mesvinian  — 
an  epoch  that  Rutot  later  embodied  in  his  system  of  prehistoric 
chronology. 

But  the  pre-chellean  industry  at  Mesvin  is  Quaternary  and  not 
Tertiary.  This  fact  is  of  prime  importance  for  several  reasons. 
The  industry-bearing  deposits  of  Puy-Coumy  are  accepted  as 
Upper  Miocene.  Those  of  the  Chalk  plateau  are  Middle  Pliocene, 
according  to  Rutot ;  and  those  of  Saint-Prest,  the  Cromer  beds, 
and  Dewlish,  are  Upper  Pliocene  —  all  of  Tertiary  age.  Further, 
according  to  the  de  Mortillet  chronology  which  appeared  in  1894, 
and  again  in  1900,  all  pre-chellean  implements  were  classed  as 
Tertiary.  The  amygdaloid  implement  was  supposed  to  date  back 
as  far  as  the  beginning  of  the  Quaternary.;  to  be,  in  fact,  the  only 
type  of  early  Quaternary  artifact  —  a  supposition  without  founda- 
tion, as  has  been  abundantly  proved  by  Rutot  and  his  colleagues  in 
Belgium.  The  error  arose  from  taking  the  river  drift  of  Chelles  as 
a  type  station,  and  from  lack  of  a  systematic  study  of  undisturbed 
Quaternary  deposits.  In  his  exhaustive  studies  of  scores  of 
Belgian  stations,  Rutot  has  supplied  this  deficiency.  A  correlation 
of  the  data  thus  gathered  has  not  only  thrown  a  flood  of  light  on 
the  work  of  earlier  investigators,  but  has  also  illumined  hitherto 


444  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

untrodden  fields,  and  points  the  way  to  a  future  full  of  promise  to 
the  student  of  the  prehistoric. 

Turning  from  the  Tertiary  eoliths  of  France  and  England,  let  us 
consider  the  Quaternary  eoliths  of  Belgium.  Rutot's  search  for 
eoliths  was  much  simplified  by  his  early  recognition  of  the  two  con- 
ditions essential  to  their  occurrence,  viz.:  (i)  The  presence  in  abun- 
dance of  utilizable  raw  material  on  the  surface  of  the  soil,  either  in 
the  outcropping  of  Cretaceous  flint-bearing  rocks,  and  the  clays  due 
to  the  decomposition  and  dissolution  of  the  chalk ;  or  in  the  valley 
drift;  and  (2)  Proximity  to  a  water  course.  These  conditions 
obtained  at  the  very  beginning  of  the  Quaternary  in  most  of  the 
river  valleys  of  Belgium. 

These  valleys  are  often  marked  by  three  terraces :  the  upper 
terrace,  about  90  meters  above  the  present  water-level,  of  Pliocene 
age ;  the  middle  terrace  at  an  elevation  of  from  25  to  65  meters, 
and  the  lower  terrace  a  little  above  flood  water-level,  both  of  Qua- 
ternary age.  One  would  expect  to  find  the  first  Quaternary  indus- 
try in  the  stony  deposit  {caiUouHs)  that  forms  the  base  of  the  middle 
terrace  in  regions  not  covered  (and  the  regions  in  question  were  not) 
by  the  Continental  ice-sheet.  This  deposit  marks  the  very  close  of 
the  Pliocene,  but  the  flints  contained  in  it  were  utilized  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  Quaternary  and  before  the  superimposed  beds  were 
formed. 

The  accompanying  section  (figure  16)  of  the  valley  of  the  Lys 
south  of  Ypres  shows  the  three  terraces  and  the  disposition  of  the 
various  Pliocene,  Quaternary,  and  recent  deposits.  Eoliths  were 
found  in  deposit  G.  To  the  industry  occurring  in  deposits  of  this 
age,  Rutot  has  given  the  name  Reutelian,  from  the  hamlet  of  Reu- 
tel,  to  the  east  of  Ypres,  where  a  typical  station  on  a  large  scale  is 
to  be  found.  Morphologically,  these  earliest  Quaternary  imple- 
ments resemble  in  every  respect  the  more  ancient  Tertiary  eoliths. 
The  name  Reutelian,  therefore,  is  to  be  understood  as  having  a 
stratigraphical  significance  only. 

The  Reutelian  industry  varies  lithologically  according  to  the 
varying  character  of  the  material  utilized.  In  West  Flanders,  for 
example,  nodules  of  grayish  black  flint  coming  from  the  Cretaceous 
outcrops  on  the  height  of  Artois  were  used  exclusively.     These 


THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM 


44S 


nodules  were  easily  transformed  into  anvil-  and  hammer-stones, 
while  natural  flakes  served  as  scrapers.  There  is  no  evidence  that 
nodules  were  purposely  broken  up  to  obtain  artificial  flakes,  the 
suj^ly  of  natural  ones  being  quite  plentiful  at  first. 

Reutelian  implements  have  been  found  not  only  in  stmdgraphic 
section,  but  also  on  the  surface  of  the  soil  where  denudation  has 
left  the  deposits  in  question  exposed  ;  and  this  is  especially  true  of 
gently  sloping  hillsides  facing  the  southwest,  from  which  direction 


Vestiges  of  a 
Pliocene  terrace 


Fig.  i6.  —  5ectKm  of  the  ralleji  of  th«  Lys  to  the  soath  of  \  pies,  ihowiog  the  three 
temces  >iiil  the  disposition  of  the  Pliocene,  QDateroaiy,  and  recent  deposits  {tSva 
Rntot).  A,  Recent  alluTiom  [sand,  clay,  pest).  B,  Marine  ssndi  of  Flandriui  age 
(Upper  Quatemaiy).  C,  Slralilied  Hesbayan  clays  (Middle  Quaternary).  D,  Cam- 
pinian  alluTJiun ;  argillaceous  sand  and  gravel  irith  fiuna  of  the  Mammoth  (Middle 
Qoatemai?).  E,  Flinty  layer  it  the  top  of  the  Moseao  with  milange  of  Mesrinian  and 
Chellean  industries.  F,  Mosean  alluriom  (Lower  Quaternary).  G,  Flinty  layer  form- 
ing the  base  of  the  middle  terrace  (Reutelian  industry).  H,  Vestiges  of  a  Pliocene 
tertace.     L,  Marine  deposits  ( Eocene ) . 

come  the  prevailing  winds  and  rain.  So  thoroughly  has  Rutot 
mastered  the  problems  at  issue  that  it  has  been  possible  for  him  to 
foretell  the  locality  where  a  certain  industry  may  be  found,  simply 
by  consulting  his  geological  maps. 

The  geographic  distribution  of  the  Reutelian  industry  includes  : 
the  valley  of  the  Lys,  particularly  in  West  Flanders ;  the  region 
about  Harmignies,  east  of  Mons ;  both  banks  of  the  Haine  and  its 
tributaries,  from  the  French  frontier  to  Morlanwelz ;  the  valley  of 
the  Sarabre,  25  meters  and  upward  above  the  river  bed,  especially 


446  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

in  the  neighborhood  of  Landelies,  also  at  Tamines,  Florefie,  and 
finally  at  Salzinnes,  near  the  confluence  of  the  Sambre  and  the 
Meuse ;  the  valley  of  the  Meuse  to  the  south  (at  Wepion)  and  cast 
of  Namur ;  sparsely  in  Limburg,  but  over  a  large  area ;  and  in  the 
extreme  east,  near  Spa.  The  same  industry  has  already  been  found 
in  France  at  Guise,  valley  of  the  Oise ;  Bicetre,  near  Paris ;  and 
Saint-Prest  near  Chartres,  valley  of  the  Eure.  Dr  Hahne's  recent 
discoveries  at  Schonebeck,  in  the  valley  of  the  Elbe,  seems  to  prove 
the  presence  of  Reutelian  implements  in  Germany. 

Industrial  remains  have  also  been  found  in  the  stony  deposits 
that  form  the  base  of  the  lower  terrace  in  non-glaciated  regions  — 
deposits  synchronous  with  the  retreat  of  the  first  Quaternary  glacier, 
while  the  Reutelian  epoch  corresponds  with  the  advance  of  the  same 
glacier.  The  implements  found  at  the  base  of  the  lower  terrace  do 
not  differ  technologically  from  the  Reutelian  eoliths.  The  only 
difference  is  in  their  stratigraphic  relations.  A  good  example  of 
their  occurrence  is  to  be  found  in  the  quarries  of  MaflBe,  near  Ath, 
valley  of  the  Dendre  (figure  17) ;  hence  the  name  Mafflean  suggested 
by  Rutot  for  this  epoch.  It  has  also  been  styled  Reutelo-mesvin- 
ian,  a  name  suggested  by  its  transitional  position  between  the  epoch 
which  precedes,  and  the  one  which  follows,  called  the  Mesvinian. 

The  geographic  distribution  of  the  MaflBean  or  Reutelo-mes- 
vinian  industry  is  not  nearly  so  extended  as  that  of  the  Reutelian. 
It  is  confined  to  the  lower  valley  terraces,  and  only  to  those  that 
contain  utilizable  material.  The  principal  Reutelo-mesvinian  stations 
of  Belgium  are  :  Maffle,  valley  of  the  Dendre ;  the  environs  of  Binche, 
valley  of  the  Haine ;  Quievrain,  Baisieux,  Audregnies,  etc.,  valley 
of  the  Hogneau  ;  the  environs  of  Charleroi,  Aiseau,  Tamines,  etc., 
valley  of  the  Sambre ;  Wommersom,  valley  of  the  Grande-Gecte, 
and  Saint-Symphorien,  Spiennes,  etc.,  valley  of  the  Trouille. 

The  specimens  figured  in  plate  xxvii,  a,  are  natural  flakes  of 
phthanite,  each  provided  with  a  sharp  margin  at  right  angles  to  the 
opposite,  tapering  end,  or  natural  handle.  In  both  cases,  the  once 
sharp  margin  has  been  dulled  by  use  as  a  scraper.  They  are  from 
the  base  of  the  Mosean  (Lower  Quaternary)  in  the  Exploitation 
Hardenpont,  at  Saint-Symphorien,  east  of  Mons,  where  the  industry 
is  unmixed  with  that  of  any  other  epoch. 


II 


u 


I 


THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM 


447 


It  is  interesting  to  note  that  M.  Cels  was  the  first  to  call  attention 
to  the  existence  of  chipped  flints  at  the  base  of  a  lower  terrace,  viz  : 
the  works  between  Spienncs  and  Saint-Symphorien,  known  as  the 
Exploitation  Helin,  to  which  station  we  shall  have  occasion  to  refer 
at  length.  This  was  in  1888,  when  the  knowledge  of  Quaternary 
geology,  as  well  as  of  eoliths,  was  scarcely  more  than  a  blank ; 
hence  Cels'  observations '  attracted  little  attention  save  opposition 
from  the  geologists. 


Fic.  17,  —  Section  of  the  lower-tensce  Qualeraary  deposits  b  the  quBxries  *t  Maffle, 
near  Ath,  valley  of  the  Deodre  (aftet  Rutot).  A,  Brick-eattb,  jununil  of  ihe  FlaDdriaa. 
B,  Slratilied,  sandy  clay,  the  so-caUed  ergeron  of  the  Flaodrian.  C,  Flinty  layer  at  the 
SiuDinit  of  Ibe  Mosean,  vith  many  utilized  pieces  of  flint  and  phlhaoite  (Mesvinian  in- 
dustry). D,  Moseao  fluvial  sands  with  stooy  layers  (utiliied  pieces  of  flint  and  phthan- 
ite).  E,  Flinty  layer,  base  of  the  Mosean  ( Reuteto-mesvinian  or  MafHean  industry). 
F,  Carboniferous  limestone. 

The  Reutelo-mesvinian,  as  might  be  expected,  is  found  at  the 
base  of  the  lower  terraces  in  France.  La  Fere,  valley  of  the  Oise,  is  a 
typical  station.  The  gravel  pits  in  the  lower  terraces  about  Paris 
(Billancourt,  Chelles,  Cergy,  etc. )  have  yielded  specimens  of  this  class, 
mixed,  however,  with  those  of  the  succeeding  Mesvinian  and  Chellean 
epochs,  the  mixture  being  due  to  the  disturbed  character  of  the  drift 
deposits.  The  Mafflean  industry  occurs  in  its  purity  at  Erith,  valley 
of  the  Thames.    Here  the  immediately  overlying  stratified  sands  con- 


'  Bull.  SffC.  d'anihr.  di  Bruxtllts, 


'I,  156. 


448  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

tain  remains  of  Elephas  antiquus  and  freshwater-  and  land-shells, 
including  Corbicula  fluminalis.  Two  stations  in  Germany  also 
deserve  mention  —  one  in  the  valley  of  the  Elbe,  the  other  at  Tau- 
bach,  near  Weimer. 

In  Belgium  there  is  no  trace  of  glacial  action  properly  so  called  — 
no  moraines,  no  bowlder  clay.  All  fhe  Quaternary  deposits  of 
Belgium,  then,  are  either  marine  or  fresh-water  with  the  exception 
of  a  single  bed  of  probably  eolian  origin.  Belgian  Quaternary  may 
be  easily  divided  into  five  series  of  deposits.  Beginning  with  the 
oldest,  these  are:  (i)  Mosean,  (2)  Campinian,  (3)  Hesbayan,  (4) 
Brabantian,  (5)  Flandrian. 

The  Mosean  consists  of  a  marine  and  a  continental  fades.  The 
fauna  of  the  lower  marine  deposits  closely  resembles  the  present 
marine  fauna  of  the  Belgium  coast.  The  upper  layers  of  the  marine 
fades  have  furnished  remains  of  the  Bison,  Cervus,  Elephas  antiquus. 
Rhinoceros  merckii,  and  Hippopotamus  major. 

The  Campinian  deposits  are  fluvial  gravels  and  sands  with  cross 
stratification,  localized  in  the  bottom  of  valleys.  They  are  often  rich 
in  remains  of  Elphas  primigenius.  Rhinoceros  tichorhinus,  Equus 
caballus,  Ursus  spelaeus,  Felis  spelaea,  Megaceros  hibemicus.  Bison 
europaeus,  etc. —  the  so-called  fauna  of  the  Mammoth. 

The  Hesbayan  stratified  clays,  20  to  30  meters  thick,  and  cov- 
ering the  greater  part  of  Belgium,  are  never  ossiferous.  The  only 
fossils  are :  Helix  hispida,  Succinea  oblonga,  and  Pupa  muscorum, 
none  of  which  is  characteristic  of  the  Hesbayan. 

Brabantian  is  a  name  new  to  geology,  employed  for  the  first  time 
by  Rutot,  and  dating  from  the  year  1900.  The  term  represents 
the  period  of  desiccation  following  the  deposition  of  the  enormous 
Hesbayan  beds.  It  designates  the  pulverized,  non-stratified  clays, 
eolian  in  character,  and  derived  from  the  Hesbayan  clay  mantle. 
These  are  found  notably  in  Brabant,  and  are  never  fossiliferous. 

The  Flandrian,  the  last  division,  like  the  Mosean,  has  both  a 
marine  and  a  continental  facies.  The  fauna  of  the  marine  facies  is 
analogous  to  that  now  living  on  the  coast  of  Belgium.  Of  the  two 
continental  layers,  the  lower  consists  of  stratified  sands  and  clays 
(ergeron),  and  the  upper  is  composed  of  brick-earth.  The  fauna  of 
the  continental  deposits  is  confined  to  the  lower  layer  (ergeron),  and 


MACCUUDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  449 

consists  solely  of  the  shells  already  mentioned  under  the  Hesbayan, 
viz.:  Helix  hispida,  Sucdnea  oblonga,  and  Pupa  muscorum. 

All  these  Quaternary  deposits  have  been  carefully  examined  by 
Rutot  in  a  search  for  industrial  remains.  The  Mosean  beds  are 
divided  into  four  layers  :  (i)  Lower  gravels,  (2)  Stratified  sands  and 
gravels,  (3)  Loam,  and  (4)  Upper  gravels.  The  lower  Mosean 
gravels  occur  at  the  base  of  the  middle  terrace  and  also  in  the 
lower  terrace.  In  the  middle  terrace  they  contain  the  Reutelian 
industry ;  and  in  the  lower  terrace,  the  Reutelo-mesvinian.  The 
industry  of  the  second  layer,  stratified  sands  and  gravels,  when 
present,  is  Reutelo-mesvinian.  The  loam  is  generally  destitute  of 
implements,  while  those  of  the  upper  Mosean  gravels,  by  reason  of 
their  stratigraphic  position,  are  placed  in  a  class  by  themselves,  to 
which  is  given  the  name  Mesvinian  —  a  term  first  employed  by  M. 
Emile  Delvaux  to  describe  the  rude  implements  found  in  the  rail- 
way cut  at  Mesvin,  between  Mons  and  Harmignies. 

The  Mesvinian  industry,  then,  occurs  in  deposits  that  cover  the 
Mosean  loam  of  the  middle  and  lower  terraces  of  valleys  in  non- 
glaciated  regions,  and,  according  to  Rutot,  is  synchronous  with 
the  beginning  of  the  first  phase  of  the  second  Quaternary  glacier. 
This  industry  is  still  of  the  purely  eolithic  type,  the  only  novel 
feature  being  a  notable  increase  in  the  percentage  of  flakes  obtained 
by  artificial  means  —  an  increase  due  to  the  scarcity  of  natural 
flakes  in  these  particular  deposits. 

The  geographic  distribution  of  the  Mesvinian  is  quite  extensive. 
In  addition  to  the  well-known  stations  at  Mesvin,  near  Mons, 
and  the  Exploitation  Helin,  at  Spiennes,  also  near  Mons,  it  occurs 
in  the  middle  terrace  of  the  valley  of  the  Lys  and  the  lower  terrace 
of  the  valley  of  the  Dendre.  Many  stations  have  been  uncovered  in 
the  valley  of  the  Haine  and  its  tributaries,  at  Quievrain,  Saint-Sym- 
phorien,  and  Haine-'Saint-Pierre,  through  recent  activity  in  the 
production  of  phosphate  of  lime.  Two  other  localities  worthy  of 
mention  are  in  the  valley  of  the  Sambre  —  at  Aiseau  in  the  lower 
terrace  and  at  Salzinnes  les-Namur  in  the  upper  terrace. 

At  least  two  Mesvinian  stations  are  known  in  England  —  at 
Erith,  valley  of  the  Thames,  and  at  Chacely,  near  Tewkesbury, 
valley  of  the  Severn  —  each  in  a  lower  terrace.     In  France,  the 


450  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

same  industry  is  to  be  found  in  the  upper  terrace  at  Saint-Prest  and 
Amiens;  also  at  Chelles  and  Cergy.  To  these  may  be  added 
Germany's  contribution  from  RixdorfT  and  from  Britz  and  Rudes- 
dorff,  near  Berlin.  Rutot  places  also  in  this  category  the  chipped 
flints  recently  discovered  by  Dr  G.  Schweinfurth  at  Thebes. 

The  present  valleys  were  begun  during  the  Middle  Pliocene. 
They  were  cut  deeper  during  the  Upper  Pliocene.  With  the 
Lower  Quaternary  or  Mosean,  the  cutting  was  localized  between 
the  upper  and  middle  terraces.  The  maximum  erosion  was  reached 
with  the  Campinian,  or  first  phase  of  the  Middle  Quaternary.  The 
valleys  were  subsequently  filled  to  the  extent  of  1 5  to  30  meters  in 
some  instances.  It  is  near  the  base  of  the  Campinian  that  Rutot 
has  found  what  he  considers  to  be  the  transition  from  the  Mesvin- 
ian  to  the  Chellean  —  in  other  words,  the  transition  from  the 
eolithic  to  the  paleolithic  period.  This  transition  epoch,  called  by 
Rutot  the  Mesvino-chellean,  is  important  from  the  point  of  view 
both  of  stratigraphy  and  technology,  and  represents  the  turn  in  the 
tide  of  the  affairs  of  primitive  man.  It  means  that  the  eolithic 
period  did  not  close  with  the  Tertiary,  as  de  Mortillet  believed,  but 
that  it  continued  on  through  the  Lower  into  the  Middle  Quaternary, 
as  Rutot  has  proved. 

A  good  example  of  the  character  of  the  evidence  on  which 
Rutot's  classification  rests  is  to  be  had  in  the  Exploitation  Helin, 
at  Spiennes,  near  Mons.  The  industry-bearing  Campinian  beds 
hitherto  studied  had  been  fused  into  one,  in  which  were  found 
a  melange  of  flint  chips  resembling  eoliths,  of  flint  nodules  only 
slightly  shaped  into  rude  amygdaloid  forms,  rude  Chellean  imple- 
ments with  base  formed  by  reserving  the  nodular  crust,  as  well  as 
the  classical  Chellean  and  Acheulian  types.  Were  these  all  vari- 
ous manifestations  of  one  and  the  same  industrial  epoch ;  or  did 
they  represent  the  successive  steps  in  a  gradual  industrial  evolu- 
tion ?  The  answer  to  this  question  depended  on  finding  the  layers 
separated  stratigraphically,  a  condition  that  was  known  to  exist  at 
the  old  Exploitation  Helin,  phosphate  works  at  present  owned  by 
the  Societe  de  Saint-Gobain. 

By  permission  of  the  proprietors  and  authorization  of  the  direc- 
tor of  the  Royal  Natural  History  Museum,  Brussels,  a  thorough 


uaccurdy] 


THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM 


451 


investigation  of  the  complete  section  was  made  in  October,  1902, 
under  the  personal  direction  of  Dr  Rutot.  Beginning  at  the  bot- 
tom the  section  (figure  1 8)  shows  the  following : 


I  BWOt-EAB^H 


Fl  Dtj  li;er  wilhoaC  indiutry. 

*"    Fl  nty  lajer  with  Acbealian  industry. 
Fl  nty  layer  with  Cbelloui  indiuliy. 

F]  nt;  ]>;ei  nith  transitioa  from  Eolithic  to 
Pb  eolithic  (Strtpjui  industcr). 
«~    Fl  ntf  layer  with  MaviDian  indostry. 

V*       Fl  D  ylayerwithKeatelO'inesviniaiiiiidustiy. 


Dear  Spiennes,  sbowJDg  tbe  super- 
of  the  valley  of  tbe  Tnniille  [after 


F  G  8  Section  of  tbe  Eipio  taboD  He  i 
pas  on  of  the  Qua  emsr;  depo  ti  lowe  errac 
Ratot). 

1.  Stony  deposit  at  the  base  of  the  Mosean  resting  on  the  Chalk  and 
containing  a  pure  Reutelo-mesvinian  industry  (the  Exploitation  Helin  is 
in  the  lower  terrace  of  the  Trouille  valley). 

2.  Fluvial  days  and  sands,  without  industry. 

3.  Stony  layer  at  the  Eummit  of  the  Mosean,  with  pure  Mesvinian 
industry. 

4.  Stratified  fluvial  sands  that  in  neighboring  pits  have  furnished 
remains  of  the  mammoth. 

5.  A  thin,  irregular,  flinty  layer  with  the  transition  industry,  Mes- 
vino-chellean. 

6.  Fluvial  sands  irregularly  and  obliquely  stratified. 

7.  A  horizontal  flinty  layer,  with  the  well-known  Chellean  type  of 
implement. 

8.  Regularly  stratified  loam,  with  traces  of  vegetable  earth  at  tbe  top. 

9.  A  very  thin  flinty  layer,  with  typical  Acheulian  industry. 

10.  Hesbayan  clays. 


452  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

11.  Thin  flinty  layer,  without  industry. 

12.  Stratified  sands  and  clays  (ergeron). 

13.  Brick  earth. 

It  will  be  seen  that  all  five  divisions  of  the  Quaternary,  with  the 
exception  of  the  Brabantian  which  is  above  the  eolithic  zone,  are 
represented  in  section  at  the  Exploitation  Helin.  All  of  the  Qua- 
ternary eolithic  epochs  are  likewise  represented  here  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  oldest,  the  Reutelian. 

But  Rutot's  attention  was  centered  on  the  three  separated  indus- 
try-bearing Campinian  layers.  Would  they  each  furnish  one  of  the 
several  elements  composing  the  industry  already  found  elsewhere  in 
disturbed  Campinian  deposits  ?  They  did.  The  lowest  of  the  three 
(layer  no.  5)  contained  not  only  eoliths  of  the  Mesvinian  type,  but 
also  rude  implements  roughly  amygdaloid  in  shape,  selected  flint 
nodules  only  slightly  chipped  to  a  semblance  of  the  hache  type,  or 
the  poniard.  It  thus  answers  all  the  requirements  of  an  industry 
of  transition  between  that  of  the  Mesvinian  level  (no.  3)  and  that  of 
layer  number  7,  where  Rutot  found  the  classical  ^^  coup  de  poingy 
In  the  uppermost  of  these  three  layers  (no.  9)  were  specimens  of 
the  amygdaloid  and  hache  types,  carefully  chipped  on  both  sides 
until  the  margins  presented  almost  a  straight  line  as  opposed  to  the 
zigzag  margin  of  the  Chellean  implement  — in  other  words  the  so- 
called  Acheulian  industry  of  M.  d*Ault  du  Mesnil  and  the  French 
school. 

These  Campinian  bands  consist  almost  exclusively  of  blocks  of 
flint  and  artificial  flint  chips.  They  form  what  is  known  in  England 
as  paleolithic  floors.  These  floors  had  been  so  little  disturbed  that 
both  Rutot  and  M.  E.  de  Munck  were  able  to  replace  numerous 
flakes  on  their  respective  cores,  building  up  in  this  manner  the 
original  flint  nodules  once  more.  All  the  edges  of  the  flakes  were  as 
sharp  as  they  would  be  had  the  chipping  been  done  only  yesterday. 

The  importance  of  the  discovery  of  a  transition  industry  between 
the  eolithic  period  representing  a  low  plane  of  mentality  reflecting 
practically  no  industrial  development,  and  the  paleolithic  period, 
signalized  by  a  gradual  evolution  both  mechanical  and  mental, 
cannot  well  be  overestimated.  The  data  gathered  at  the  Exploita- 
tion Helin  might  not  of  themselves  suffice  to  establish  the  existence 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  453 

of  a  transition  stage  ;  but  when  supplemented  by  the  rich  iinds  along 
the  right  bank  of  the  Haine  between  Estinnes  and  Cronfestu,  notably 
at  Strepy,  Maurage,  Trivieres,  and  Saint- Vaast,  the  cumulative  evi- 
dence is  irresistible.  The  industry,  in  fact,  is  so  abundant  and  char- 
acteristic at  Strepy  as  to  justify  Rutot's  proposal  of  the  name 
Strepyan  for  the  transition  epoch,  in  place  of  the  longer  term  Mes- 
vino-chellean. 

The  Exploitation  Helin,  with  its  separated,  industry-bearing, 
Campinian  layers,  is  the  key  to  the  passage  from  the  eolithic  to  the 
paleolithic  period.  It  furnishes  the  solution  of  the  problem  of 
the  mixed  industries  occurring  at  various  localities  along  the  northern 
shore  of  the  Haine,  particularly  at  Strepy.  These  localities,  on  the 
other  hand,  have  furnished  the  transition  industry  in  far  greater 
quantities  and  variety  of  form.  The  gently  sloping  valley  facing 
the  southwest  being  exposed  to  the  prevailing  winds  and  rain- 
storms, the  beds  of  clay  have  disappeared.  The  result  is  that  two 
of  the  flinty  layers  are  fused  into  one.  The  probability  of  a  mix- 
ture of  industries  was  suggested  by  the  fact  that  two  kinds  of  flint 
were  utilized  :  (i)  small  nodules  of  a  green-coated  brown  flint,  and 
(2)  flakes  artificially  removed  from  large  nodules  of  beautiful  black 
flint.  By  placing  in  one  group  the  artifacts  of  brown  flint,  and  in 
another  those  of  black  flint,  Rutot  discovered  that  he  had  by  that 
act  separated  two  industries  as  perfectly  as  they  had  been  separated 
in  the  section  at  the  Exploitation  Helin.  There  were,  for  example, 
no  carefully  fashioned  implements  of  the  Acheulian  type  among  the 
brown  flints,  and  no  rude  Chellean  implements  among  the  black 
flints. 

The  almost  incredibly  rich  finds  made  at  Strepy  and  neighbor- 
ing localities  have  served  to  shed  new  light  on  the  uses  to  which 
the  artifacts  were  put.  The  first  unmistakable  weapons  are  placed 
by  Rutot  in  the  Strepyan  (transition  from  the  eolithic  to  the  paleo- 
lithic). The  eoliths  are  tools  and  not  weapons,  with  the  possible 
exception  of  the  small  fling-stones,  and  these  were  evidently  not 
weapons  of  defense,  being  used  only  in  the  chase. 

The  transition  industry  includes  hammer-stones,  scrapers,  and 
punches,  all  of  which  retain  eolithic  facies  while  undergoing  a  grad- 
ual evolution  in  form.     To  these  may  be  added  an  entirely  new 


454  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

series  of  implements  more  or  less  amygdaloid  in  shape,  i.  e.,  the 
primitive  Chellan  **  coup  de  paingy 

Rutot's  ingenious  theory  as  to  the  origin  of  the  amygdaloid 
type  of  implement  is  given  here,  because  of  its  plausibility  and  be- 
cause I  had  arrived,  independently,  at  the  same  conclusion  after  a 
careful  study  of  the  transition  series  belonging  to  the  Yale  Museum. 
The  primitive  stage  is  the  rather  flat  flint  nodule,  with  more  or  less 
rounded  contours,  such  as  would  attract  one  in  search  of  a  ham- 
mer-stone. With  use,  small  chips  would  be  detached  from  a  sec- 
tion of  the  contour.  Some  would  be  removed  from  one  face,  and 
some  from  the  other,  as  the  aim  veered  to  the  right  or  to  the  left 
as  the  case  might  be.  This  would  result  in  an  irregular,  zigzag 
edge  for  which  uses  might  easily  arise.  By  bringing  an  adjacent 
section  of  the  contour  into  play  as  a  hanmier-stone,  the  zigzag  edge 
could  be  extended  indefinitely.  The  specimens  show  that,  in  prac- 
tice, it  was  wise  to  reserve  the  original  handhold. 

An  excellent  example  to  illustrate  the  hammer-stone  origin  of 
the  almond-shaped  paleolithic  may  be  seen  in  figure  2  of  plate 
xxviii,  B.  The  implement,  which  comes  from  Bray,  valley  of  the 
Haine,  is  a  flint  nodule  with  smooth  exterior.  About  one-half  has 
been  reserved  for  the  handle.  The  borders  of  the  other  half  are 
chipped  and  battered  by  hammer-like  blows.  The  flakes  removed 
being  blunt,  the  thickness  of  the  nodule  toward  the  center  is  not 
reduced,  and  the  worked  edges  are,  in  consequence,  quite  blunt. 
From  the  accidental  chipping  of  a  hammer-stone  in  use  to  further 
intentional  chipping  and  retouching,  with  a  view  of  rendering  the 
original  nodule  flatter  and  its  edges  straighter  and  sharper,  is  but  a 
step,  and  that  step  was  taken  as  soon  as  its  utility  became  evident. 

The  amygdaloid  implement  serves  equally  well  as  a  hatchet  or 
a  poniard,  and  is,  therefore,  an  excellent  all-round  weapon.  In  the 
meantime,  a  veritable  poniard  was  in  process  of  development.  It 
was  evolved  from  the  sub-cylindrical  flint  nodule.  A  few  well- 
directed  blows  at  one  extremity,  and  the  poniard  was  ready  for  ser- 
vice. Its  greater  length,  better  handhold,  and  sharper  point  ren- 
dered it  more  effective  for  thrusting  purposes  than  was  the  composite 
amygdaloid  implement.  Of  the  two  hundred  or  more  rude,  flint 
poniards  in   the  Brussels  collection,  some  have  very  serviceable. 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  455 

natural  guards,  the  maker  having  selected  a  nodule  with  an  en- 
largement at  the  proper  place  —  a  further  step  in  the  differentiation 
between  the  hilt  and  blade. 

Perhaps  no  better  intermediate  form  between  the  amygdaloid 
type  and  that  of  the  poniard  could  be  found  than  the  two  specimens 
illustrated  in  plate  xxix,  a.  They  are  enough  alike  to  have  been 
made  by  the  same  workman.  Figure  i  is  from  Milton  Street,  about 
icx)  feet  above  the  Thames  and  near  the  base  of  Swanscombe  hill 
(figure  1 5).  Figure  2  is  from  the  Shelly  gravel-pit  at  Swanscombe, 
which  is  very  near  Milton  Street  and  at  approximately  the  same 
level  above  the  Thames.  Both  were  given  to  me  by  Mrs  Stopes, 
whose  husband,  the  late  Henry  Stopes,  found  them  in  1900.  Each 
is  simply  a  sub-cylindrical  nodule,  chipped  at  one  end  to  a  blade- 
like, rather  sharp,  edge.  The  patina  of  the  chipped  surfaces  is 
especially  rich  and  glossy.  The  specimen  from  Milton  Street  is 
provided  with  a  natural  hilt  that  fits  the  hand  perfectly  and  is  more 
suggestive  of  the  poniard  than  of  the  strictly  Chellean  type. 

The  implement  from  the  Shelly  gravel-pit  at  Swanscombe  has 
no  differentiated  hilt,  but  the  blade  near  the  point  is  chipped  so 
thin  as  to  make  it  admirably  adapted  for  use  as  an  instrument  of 
thrust.  It  was  associated  with  a  comparatively  rich  fauna,  includ- 
ing Elephas  antiquus,  Elephas  primigenius  and  Corbicula  fluminalis. 

The  mixed  character  of  the  fauna,  as  well  as  of  the  industry, 
leads  me  to  believe  that  the  industry  of  the  Shelly  gravel-pit  at 
Swanscombe  represents  both  the  eolithic  and  the  paleolithic. 

The  section  of  the  pit  that  has  yielded  so  many  fossils  and  stone 
implements  is  described  by  Mr  Stopes  as  "stratified  sands  and 
gravels,  capped  by  a  thin  layer  of  tough  clay."  The  Shelly  bed  is 
10  feet  thick,  and  rests  upon  the  Chalk  at  a  level  of  78  feet  above 
the  sea.  In  it  were  found  the  implements  also  ;  but  whether  at  a 
single  level  or  at  various  levels  is  not  stated. 

I  have  compared  a  list  of  the  Shelly  gravel-pit  ^  fauna  with 
those  furnished  by  Rutot  for  the  deposits  at  Erith  and  Menche- 
court,  each  in  a  lower  terrace ;  and  that  by  Laville  for  Cergy,  also 
in  a  lower  terrace,  only  7  meters  above  the  mean  water-level  of  the 
Oise.     The  results  are  as  follows  : 


*  Mrs  Stopes  in  Report  Brit.  Assoc,  for  the  Adv.  of  Science^  Soutbport,  1 903. 


4S6  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

Mammaua. 
Cervus  elephas,  Swanscombe,  Erith,  Menchecourt. 

Elephas  antiquus,  Swanscombe,  Erith,  Menchecourt,  Cergy. 

Elephas  primigenius,       Swanscombe,  Erith,  Menchecourt,  Cergy. 

Equus  caballus,  Swanscombe,  Menchecourt,  

Rhinoceros  leptorhinus,  Swanscombe,  Cergy.* 

Sus  scrofa      Swanscombe Menchecourt,  Cergy. 

MOLLUSCA. 

Carychium  minimum,  Swanscombe,  Cergy. 

Helix  nemoralis,  Swanscombe,  Cergy. 

Limnaea  auricularia,  Swanscombe,  Cergy. 

Limnaea  peregra,  Swanscombe,  Erith, 

Limnaea  palustris,  Swanscombe,  Erith, 

Planorbis  spirorbis,  Swanscombe,  Erith, Cergy. 

Bithinia  tentaculata,  Swanscombe,  Erith,  Menchecourt,  Cergy. 

Valvata  piscinalis,  Swanscombe,  Erith, Cergy. 

Valvata  cristata,  Swanscombe,  Erith, 

Unio  littoralis,  Swanscombe,  Erith, 

Corbicula  fluminalis,  Swanscombe,  Erith, Cergy. 

Sphaericum  comeum,  Swanscombe,  Erith, 

Pisidium  amnicum,  Swanscombe,  Erith, Cergy. 

Out  of  19  selected  species  from  the  Shelly  gravel-pit  at  Swans- 
combe, 13  are  found  at  Erith,  6  at  Menchecourt,  and  12  at  Cergy. 
The  species  common  to  all  four  stations  are :  Elephas  antiquus, 
Elephas  primigenius,  and  Bithinia  tentaculata  ;  while  those  common 
to  Swanscombe,  Erith,  and  Cergy,  would  increase  this  list  by 
Planorbis  spirorbis,  Valvata  piscinalis,  Corbicula  fluminalis,  and 
Pisidium  amnicum. 

The  fauna  of  Elephas  antiquus  is  characteristic  of  eolithic 
horizons ;  that  of  Elephas  primigenius  is  preeminently  paleolithic 
in  its  associations.  Bithinia  tentaculata  and  Corbicula  fluminalis 
have  a  wider  range  in  point  of  time. 

As  regards  the  industrial  remains,  Mrs  Stopes  mentions  imple- 
ments of  the  Acheulian  and  Chellean  types ;  also  discs,  fling-stones, 
scrapers,  spoke-shaves,  punches,  etc.,  many  of  them  with  eolithic 
facies. 

Among  the  weapons  of  this  transition  epoch  may  be  mentioned 

1  Probably  the  same  spedes. 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  457 

the  casse-tetes  formed  of  flint  nodules,  the  natural  shapes  of  which 
lent  themselves  readily  to  such  uses.  The  specimen  from  Bray 
illustrated  in  plate  xxix,  b,  is  an  example  of  this  class.  The  only 
breaks  in  the  crust  of  the  club-like  flint  nodule  are  the  two  on  the 
side  and  extremity  of  the  club-end,  respectively.  At  both  these 
places  blunt  edges  have  been  produced  by  approximately  direct 
blows.  The  implement  was  held  like  a  club  to  produce  the  chip- 
ping at  the  side  ;  and  like  a  pestle  to  produce  that  at  the  extremity. 

It  was  my  good  fortune  to  spend  eleven  days  with  Rutot  during 
the  latter  part  of  July,  1903.  Our  time  was  divided  equally  be- 
tween Rutot's  collections  in  the  Royal  Museum  of  Natural  History 
and  the  field.  The  collection,  numbering  thousands  of  specimens, 
was  not  yet  on  exhibition,  the  handsome  and  commodious  new 
wing  of  the  Museum  where  it  was  to  be  placed  not  being  finished. 
The  installation,  however,  in  M.  Rutot's  office  was  such  as  to  render 
possible  a  thorough  examination,  not  only  of  each  piece  but  also 
of  large  groups,  for  comparative  study  of  the  various  geological 
horizons. 

The  careful  coordination  of  museum-  and  field-work  was  every- 
where evident.  Both  had  been  truthfully  reflected  in  Rutot's 
numerous  publications.  The  latter  were  already  familiar  to  me, 
and  my  object  in  visiting  Belgium  was  not  so  much  for  verification 
of  a  master's  work  as  for  guidance  by  that  master.  My  host's  first 
words  were  :  "  Ilfaut  etre  guide ^  and  my  experiences  for  the  next 
ten  days  proved  the  truth  of  his  assertion. 

We  first  visited  Binche,  the  headquarters  of  that  veteran  col- 
lector, M.  N.  Dethise,  and  in  the  course  of  the  day  walked  as  far 
north  as  Leval.  In  the  railway  cut  at  Ressaix-Trieu  there  is  an 
instructive  section  showing  Lower  Eocene  sands  with  superimposed 
Mosean,  Hesbayan,  and  Flandrian  deposits.  The  flinty  layer  at  the 
base  of  the  Mosean  yielded  Reutelian  implements,  and  that  at 
its  summit  both  Mesvinian  and  Chellean  implements.  As  may  be 
seen  in  the  section  (figure  19),  these  two  implementiferous  layers 
merge  into  one  where  the  Mosean  fails,  thus  causing  a  melange 
of  industries. 

Near  the  railway  station  at  Leval,  the  surface  of  the  fields  slop- 
ing  toward   the  southwest  are  covered   with  flints   left  exposed 

AM.   ANTH.  N.  S.,  7— 3X 


458 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[K.  s.,  7,  1905 


through  denudation.  Here  we  found  an  industry  representing  the 
transition  from  the  eolithic  to  the  paleolithic.  It  is  one  of  those 
gently  sloping  surfaces  facing  the  southwest,  and  thus  receiving  the 
full  benefit  of  the  prevailing  winds  and  rains.  The  intercalating 
beds  of  clay  having  been  washed  away,  the  surface  of  the  field  is 
covered  with  what  has  been  aptly  called  tapis  de  sUex,  resting  on 
an  outcrop  of  Chalk.  Here  was  found  the  rude  poniard  figured  in 
plate  XXVIII,  B,  fig.  I.  It  is  a  simple  nodule  of  parti-colored  flint, 
with  a  white  crust  One  extremity  was  roughly  chipped  to  a 
point.  Two  or  three  prominences  had  been  removed  from  the 
opposite  end  so  as  to  make  it  fit  the  hand  comfortably.  A  single 
stroke  served  not  only  to  remove  a  projection  near  the  base,  but 
also  to  reduce  the  drcumference  at  this  point,  thus  tending  to 


Fig.  19.  — Section  in  the  railway  cat  at  Ressaix-Trieu  (from  a  sketch  made  in  the 
field).  !•',  Flandrian  (Upper  Qaalemsry).  H,  Hesbayan  (Middle  Qualemary).  Af, 
Mosean  (Lower  Qqatemary),  with  Reqtelian  iroplemenls  at  its  base  and  MesTiniait 
and  Chellean  implements  at  its  summit.     7",  Lower  Eocene. 

produce  a  guard.  A  sharp  edge  left  by  the  removal  of  the  flake 
in  question  was  reduced  by  means  of  many  slight  blows  or  re- 
touches so  as  not  to  cut  the  hand. 

We  spent  another  day  at  Ecaussines-Carrieres,  largely  for  the 
purpose  of  becoming  familiarized  with  the  various  Quaternary 
deposits.  Perhaps  the  best  section  exposed  was  that  in  the  Thiar- 
mont  quarry  (figure  20).  It  shows  how  the  pockets  in  the  old 
eroded  surface  of  the  Carboniferous  limestone  are  filled  with  Wealden 
deposits,  over  which  is  spread  the  Mosean.  Above  the  Mosean 
come,  in  turn,  the  Hesbayan  (Loess),  the  Brabantian,  Flandrian, 
and  brick -earth.  This  section  shows  the  contact  of  the  Brabantian 
clays  on  the  one  hand  with  the  underlying  Hesbayan  mantle,  and 
on  the  other,  with  the  superimposed  Flandrian  deposits.     Rutot 


maccubdy] 


THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM 


459 


believes  that  the  Brabantian  (eolian)  was  not  an  epoch  favorable  to 
human  existence,  and  yet  there  is  some  evidence  tending  to  show 
that  the  Ebumean  races  penetrated  Belgium  at  that  time. 

The  most  interesting  excursion  of  the  series  was  the  one  to 
Harmignies,  Spiennes,  and  the  Exploitation  Helin,  near  Spiennes, 
which  were  reached  by  way  of  Mons.  There  are  interesting  sec- 
tions in  two  railway  cuts  between  Mons  and  Harmig^nies.  The  one 
nearest  Moas,  the  Mesvin  cut,  furnished  the  first  eoliths  to  be  found 


llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllA 


Fig.  30.' — Section  of  ThiannoDt  quarry  >t  £cauisines- Canities,  forming  the  loireT 
^rrace  of  the  Senneltc  THlUy  (from  a  sketch  made  in  the  field).  A,  BHck-eaith.  B, 
Stratified  sandy  clay  ("crgeroo"),  Flandrian.  C,  Thin  flinty  layer.  D,  Pulverulent^ 
DOQ-stratified  clays  of  eolian  origin,  Brabantian.  E,  Stratifled  clay,  Hesbayan.  F,  Stony 
layer.  G,  Fluvial  sands,  obliquely  stratified,  with  intercalated  teams  of  gravel,  Mosean. 
H,  Stony  layer  with  fragments  of  phthanite.     K,  Carboniferous  limestone. 

in  Belgium,  and  gave  its  name  to  the  Mesvinian  epoch  of  the  eolithic 
period.  In  the  other  may  still  be  seen  the  pits  sunk  in  neolithic 
times  to  obtain  the  fresh  flint  used  in  the  manufacture  of  chipped 
and  polished  implements. 

From  Harmignies  we  returned  on  foot  along  the  railway,  by 
special  permission.     Leaving  the  railway  at  the  crossing  of  the 


460  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

highway  which  leads  in  a  northwesterly  direction  to  Mons,  we  soon 
reached  the  level  of  a  middle  terrace,  25  and  more  meters  above 
the  bed  of  the  Trouille  river.  It  was  here  that  M.  E.  dc  Munck 
discovered  recently  a  spread  of  eoliths  belonging  to  the  Reutelian 
epoch. 

As  the  surface  slopes  gently  toward  the  southwest,  the  upper 
layers  of  the  terrace  have  disappeared,  leaving  the  flinty  layer  at  its 
base  exposed.  This  layer  rests  on  the  Chalk,  the  surface  of  which 
was  eroded  during  Mosean  times.  Between  the  sand-filled  gullies 
in  the  Chalk  is  found  the  spread  of  flints,  many  of  them  showing 
unmistakable  traces  of  utilization.  The  locality  is  especially  noted 
for  polyhedral  fling-stones  and  hammer-stones,  the  latter  bearing 
evidence  of  having  seen  much  service. 

After  being  told  where  to  look,  my  search  was  rewarded.  The 
first  find  was  a  typical  Reutelian  hammer-stone  (plate  xxvi,  b, 
fig.  4),  characteristic  also  of  that  particular  locality,  since  it  bore 
marks  of  having  been  much  used.  It  is  a  flint  nodule  that  had 
been  but  slightly  altered  by  chance  flaking  before  being  utilized. 
Only  one  of  the  old  surfaces  of  fracture  has  been  preserved.  The 
rest  of  the  exterior  either  retains  the  original  nodular  crust  or  has 
been  modified  by  artificial  chipping.  One  end  and  one  margin  are 
thoroughly  battered  by  use.  The  crest  of  the  battered  margin  is 
zigzag  in  its  course,  showing  how  the  chips  came  off)  first  on  one 
side  and  then  on  the  other,  due  to  the  uncertainty  of  landing  a  blow 
true  with  a  stone  whose  transverse  diameter  is  less  than  half  that 
of  the  diameter  in  the  same  plane  with  the  direction  of  the  blow 
that  is  dealt.  The  other  end  and  margin  show  no  evidence  of 
having  given  or  received  perpendicular  blows.  They  were  adapted 
to  the  hand  simply  by  the  removal  of  a  few  flakes. 

I  found  several  other  Reutelian  implements  before  we  left  the 
terrace  above  Harmignies.  Only  two  of  these  are  figured  (plate 
xxvi,  B,  figs.  I  and  2).  Figure  2  is  a  very  interesting  specimen. 
It  is  a  natural  flake  with  a  little  crust  left  on  the  outer  surface. 
The  inner  surface  is  weathered  white  and  is  in  rather  sharp  contrast 
with  the  fresher  appearing  worked  margins.  The  heel  and  the 
greater  part  of  one  margin  are  left  untouched.  The  other  margin 
and  the  point  are  carefully  retouched.     For  a  part  of  the  way  the 


MACCURDY]  ^  THE  EOLJTHIC  PROBLEM  46 1 

worked  margin  is  chipped  on  both  sides.  Near  the  base,  or  heel, 
a  notch  has  been  carefully  retouched,  on  one  side  only,  to  form  a 
scraper  of  the  spoke-shave  type.  Figure  i  is  one  of  the  polyhedral 
fling-stones,  which,  like  the  oft-used  hammer-stones,  are  character- 
istic of  the  locality  in  question.  It  may  be  recalled  that  similar 
stones  were  found  on  the  Chalk  plateau.  A  Reutelian  scraper 
(fig.  3)  from  Bois  d'Epinois,  valley  of  the  Haine,  near  Binche,  the 
gift  of  Dr  Rutot,  is  grouped  with  the  Harmignies  specimens  for 
convenience.  It  is  a  natural  flake  of  flint,  quadrangular  in  shape, 
the  only  sharp  margin  of  which,  after  being  dulled  by  use,  has 
been  retouched  with  a  view  to  further  utilization.  The  Yale 
Museum  is  also  indebted  to  Dr  Rutot  for  a  valuable  series  repre- 
senting the  various  eolithic  horizons  as  well  as  the  transition  to  the 
paleolithic. 

Leaving  the  Reutelian  station  above  Harmignies,  we  traversed 
the  famous  Champs  a  cayoux  and  picked  up  a  number  of  neolithic 
implements,  including  nuclei  and  flakes.  These  are  from  the 
ancient  workshops  that  once  covered  an  area  of  more  than  120 
acres.  The  locality  first  came  into  notice  in  1840  through  the  re- 
searches of  M.  Albert  Tolliez.  Twenty  years  later  Tolliez  dis- 
covered that  the  fresh  flint  nodules,  utilized  in  the  manufacture  of 
implements,  came  from  galleries  in  the  Chalk,  reached  by  means  of 
pits  sunk  through  the  Quaternary  deposits  and  Tertiary  sands. 
The  discovery  was  confirmed  in  1867,  when  the  new  railway  from 
Mons  to  Charleroi,  via  Harmignies,  was  cut  through  the  Champs 
a  cayous,  laying  bare  no  fewer  than  twenty-five  of  these  pits. 

Finished  implements,  as  well  as  those  in  the  rough,  nuclei  and 
flakes,  have  found  their  way  from  the  sites  of  these  ancient  work- 
shops to  museums  in  almost  every  land.  The  Yale  Museum  being 
an  exception,  and  the  supply  being  not  yet  exhausted,  our  collect- 
ing bags  grew  perceptibly  heavier  before  we  reached  the  village  of 
Spiennes  and  turned  northward  on  our  way  across  fields  to  the 
Exploitation  Helin,  in  the  direction  of  Saint-Symphorien. 

The  section  at  the  Exploitation  Helin  has  been  already  described 
(figure  18).  Having  become  somewhat  familiar  with  the  aspect  of 
the  Belgian  series  of  Quaternary  deposits  by  a  study  of  sections  in 
various  localities,  notably  at  Ressaix  and  in  the  Thiarmont  quarry 


462  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

at  ^caussines-carrieres,  I  was  able  to  recognize  the  superimposed 
beds  in  the  pits  of  Helin  without  much  assistance  from  Dr  Rutot 
Of  the  specimens  illustrated  in  plates  xxvii,  b,  and  xxviii,  a,  some 
were  found  by  Dr  Rutot  and  some  by  myself.  All  are  from  the 
flinty  layer  at  the  top  of  the  Mosean.  The  specimens  in  plate  xxvii, 
B,  have  been  retouched,  are  slightly  weathered,  and  show  marks  of 
wear,  in  part,  no  doubt,  from  use,  and  in  part,  it  may  be,  from  natural 
causes.  Figure  i  of  this  plate  shows  a  rather  flat,  artificial  flake 
with  the  original  greenish  crust  intact  over  the  outer  surface.  The 
margins  are  carefully  worked  on  both  sides  of  the  blunt,  beak-like 
apex.  Figure  2  is  likewise  an  artificial  flake  with  prominent  bulb 
of  percussion.  The  two  margins  that  lead  to  the  sharp  projection 
are  retouched,  but  on  opposite  sides.  This  reverse  working  pro- 
duces a  point  that  might  well  have  been  used  as  a  reamer.     Figure 

3  represents  a  type  of  implement  common  to  the  eolithic  period, 
but  very  rare  in  the  paleolithic.  It  was  used  to  retouch  the  dulled 
edges  of  flint  flakes ;  hence  the  name  retoiuhoir  given  to  it  by  Rutot 
The  piece  in  question  is  a  prismoid  flint  flake,  the  thinnest  mar- 
gin of  which  has  been  reduced  in  certain  places  by  use.     Figure 

4  is  an  artificial  flake  that  has  retained  the  outer  crust.  The  ap- 
proximately straight  edge  is  retouched  from  one  side  only  and 
along  its  entire  length. 

The  specimens  figured  in  plate  xxviii,  a,  are  all  non-utilized 
pieces.  The  surfaces  of  fracture  are  perfectly  fresh,  and  the  edges 
and  corners  are  neither  retouched  nor  worn.  Figures  1-2  are  arti- 
ficial flakes,  and  figure  3  is  a  core  from  which  several  flakes  have 
been  artificially  removed. 

It  is  fitting  to  close  with  the  Exploitation  Helin  for  two  reasons  : 
(i)  It  contains  in  undisturbed  section  all  the  Belgian  Quaternary 
deposits  except  one,  and  that  one,  the  Brabantian,  is  above  the 
eolithic  zone ;  (2)  In  its  superimposed  beds  have  been  found  im- 
plements representing  every  eolithic  epoch  with  the  exception  of 
the  Reutelian,  at  the  bottom  of  the  Belgian  series.  It  is,  therefore, 
of  itself  the  best  resume  of  the  eolithic  problem,  being,  as  it  is,  an 
epitome  of  the  stratigraphic  evidence  on  which  the  solution  of  the 
question  depends  so  largely.  To  complete  the  stratigraphic  evi- 
dence one  has  only  to  turn  to  the  lowest  beds  of  the  middle  ter- 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  463 

races  in  such  sections  as  that  near  Ypres,  valley  of  the  Lys,  or  at 
Salzinnes  les-Namur,  valley  of  the  Sambre. 

But  stratigraphy  alone  is  of  no  avail  unless  the  specimens  them- 
selves are  recognized  as  artifacts.  The  arguments  in  favor  of  their 
acceptance  as  such  have  been  g^ven  at  length  in  discussing  the 
plateau  specimens  from  England.  If  further  evidence  along  this 
line  be  required,  the  reader  is  referred  to  Rutot's  papers  entitled, 
"  Les  actions  naturelles  possibles  sont  inaptes  a  produire  des  effets 
semblables  a  la  retouche  intentionelle,"  ^  and  "Sur  la  cause  de 
r  ^clatement  naturel  du  silex."^  Lack  of  space  renders  it  impossi- 
ble to  enter  here  into  the  details  of  Rutot's  experiments  and  argu- 
ments, proving  the  inadequacy  of  the  possible,  natural,  and  acci- 
dental causes  that  might  be  invoked  as  apt  to  produce  the  effect  of 
intentional  working.  The  natural  causes  are:  (i)  Change  of  tem- 
perature, (2)  torrential  action,  (3)  action  of  the  waves  of  the  sea, 
and  (4)  the  settling  or  sinking  of  the  beds  in  question. 

Prestwich  had  also  given  this  subject  much  attention.  His  chief 
reasons  for  believing  that  the  plateau  specimens  could  not  have  been 
shaped  by  natural  causes  were  :  (i)  That  they  admit  of  arrange- 
ment into  definite  groups  based  on  form ;  (2)  the  parallelism  of 
the  flakes  struck  off  is  the  result  of  intention  and  not  of  accident ; 
(3)  many  of  the  forms  are  suggestive  of  definite  uses  as  tools  and 
implements  ;  (4)  the  character  of  the  work  is  the  same  for  those  of 
which  the  uses  appear  obscure.  But  the  advocates  of  the  artificial 
nature  of  these  specimens  are  not  called  on  to  find  a  use  for  every 
type  of  implement.  We  are  reminded  by  Abbott  that  if  the  only 
boomerangs  in  existence  were  fossil  boomerangs,  it  would  take  an 
expert  guesser  to  hit  upon  the  use  to  which  we  happen  to  know 
they  are  put.  So  certain  was  Prestwich  in  his  exclusion  of  natural- 
cause  theories,  particularly  the  effects  of  wave -action,  that  he  offered 
the  two  volumes  of  his  Geology  for  half  a  dozen  shore  flints  (not 
derived)  of  any  of  the  plateau  types  figured  in  plates  v  to  ix,  of  his 
"  Collected  Papers  on  some  Controverted  Questions  of  Geology." 

Mr  W.  J.  Lewis  Abbott,  himself  an  expert  judge  of  precious  and 
semi-precious  stones,  has  experimented  much  in  the  working    of 

'^  Bull,  et  mint,  Soc,  d^anthr.  de  BruxelUs,  1902,  xx. 
>Ibid.,  1904,  XXIII. 


464  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

flint,  and  knows,  as  well  as  any  one,  the  limitations  imposed  on 
the  range  of  effects  produced  by  natural  or  accidental  causes.  One 
of  the  implements  he  found  in  the  Elephas  deposits  of  the  Cromer 
beds  showed  "  a  well  marked  eraillure''  He  has  made  "  thousands 
of  experiments  of  fbdng  flints  and  pitching  round  pebbles  at  them, 
and  thus  removing  flakes."  He  adds :  "  By  special  suspension  ar* 
rangements,  I  was  able  to  administer  any  number  of  blows  at  any 
particular  spot  with  various  degrees  of  force ;  but  I  was  never  able 
to  produce  this  scar  {eraillure)  in  any  way  in  which  it  may  be  con- 
ceived Nature  worked."  Another  set  of  experiments  included  the 
placing  of  flints,  fixed  and  otherwise,  at  the  bottom  of  a  long,  in- 
clined trough  and  letting  stones  slide  down  upon  them  ;  but  "  always 
with  a  negative  result."  On  the  other  hand,  when  he  has  "tried 
to  make  a  clean  chop  oflTa  mineral,"  he  was  always  "annoyed  by  a 
characteristic  kick,  giving  rise  to  the  eraillure,*'  Abbott  explains  that 
when  one  wishes  to  deal  a  blow  in  a  definite  direction  and  in  a  given 
spot,  the  concentration  of  muscular  power  to  land  the  blow  on 
"  that  particular  spot,  and  even  to  keep  the  hammer  there,"  occa- 
sions a  secondary  blow,  produced  by  the  voluntary  muscular  op- 
position to  the  rebound.  The  Siime  phenomenon  results  when  one 
attempts  to  drive  a  nail  in  an  awkward  place  by  a  series  of  delib- 
erate blows,  each  of  which  will  be  followed  by  a  second,  involun- 
tary tap.  It  is  this  tap  that  removes  the  small  flake  from  the  bulb 
of  percussion  and  produces  the  well-known  eraillure.  This,  Abbott 
considers  of  more  importance  than  the  bulb  of  percussion  itself,  and 
indubitable  proof  of  an  intentionally  directed  blow.  The  bulb  of  per- 
cussion on  one  of  the  non-utilized  artificial  flakes  (plate  xxviii,  a, 
fig.  2)  from  the  Mesvinian  level  in  the  Exploitation  Helin  is  marked 
by  a  characteristic  eraillure. 

The  recognition  of  eoliths  as  artifacts,  and  the  determination  of 
the  geological  horizons  where  they  are  found  in  situ,  pave  the  way 
to  the  development  of  systems  of  relative  chronology  and  a  special 
terminology.  I  have  referred  already  to  the  de  Mortillet  system 
(page  426)  which  provided  for  an  eolithic  period.  But  I  have  endeav- 
ored to  show  that  priority  in  the  use  of  that  term  belongs  to  Mr  J. 
Allen  Brown  —  a  fact  in  the  history  of  the  science  worthy  of  empha- 
sis, especially  since  the   credit  is  generally  given  to  de  Mortillet. 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  465 

Rutot,  for  example,  says:^  "Le  mot  servant  a  caracteriser  Tidee, 
si  importante,  de  Texistence  de  toute  une  longue  serie  d'industries 
primitives  anterieures  au  Paleolithique  est  trouve  depuis  longtemps, 
et  c'est  G.  de  Mortillet  qui,  croyons-nous,  I'a  proposer  le  premier, 
c*est  le  mot  eolithique.'*  Another  author  has  made  the  same  mis- 
take in  an  important  work  that  appeared  only  this  year.  M.  A. 
Doigneau,  whose  book  *  I  reviewed  for  the  American  Anthropologist? 
says  :  "  On  accepta  definitivement  le  nom  de  ifeolithique  (aurore  de 
la  pierre)  deja  precedement  propose  par  G.  de  Mortillet,  pour 
designer  Tepoque  qui  preceda  celle  de  Chelles  et  pendant  laquelle 
naquit  Tindustrie  de  la  pierre."  My  statement  (on  page  426)  of 
J.  Allen  Brown's  claims  to  priority  was  written  before  the  two  works 
of  Rutot  and  Doigneau,  respectively,  were  published ;  which  is  my 
reason  for  emphasizing  it  here. 

De  Mortillet's  provisions  for  an  eolithic  period  were  so  meager 
and  uncertain  that  little  except  an  historical  significance  attaches  to 
them  now.  It  could  hardly  have  been  otherwise.  The  wonder  is 
that  he  built  so  well,  working  almost  wholly  in  the  dark  and  against 
the  dominant  views  of  his  time. 

Rutot  profited  both  by  the  successes  and  the  failures  of  his  fore- 
runner. His  system,  which  covers  all  the  periods  of  the  stone  age, 
is  reproduced  in  extenso.  Attention  is  directed  particularly  to  the 
part  dealing  with  the  eolithic  period,  which  is  preeminently  his  own 
and  which  was  built  up  gradually  in  the  light  of  long  and  pains- 
taking investigations.  I  have  added  the  Dewlish  industry  to  his 
classification,  associating  it  with  that  of  the  Cromer  Forest-bed  and 
Saint-Prest.  Archibald  Geikie*  is  my  authority  for  placing  the 
Dewlish  gravels  with  the  Cromer  Forest-bed  group.  Both  are 
referred  to  the  same  horizon  in  the  Upper  Pliocene,  and  both  are 
estuarine  and  fresh-water  deposits.  Thus  the  synchronism  between 
the  industrial  remains  found  by  Abbott  near  East  Runton,  Norfolk, 
and  those  taken  by  Dr  Blackmore  from  the  Dewlish  gravels,  in 
Dorset,  is  established. 

1  Le  pr^historique dans  1* Europe  ceotrale.    Extrait  du  C.-R.  du  Congr,  cfarchkol,  et 
d^hist,^  Dinant,  1903,  p.  244. 

*  Nos  ancitres  primitifsy  Paris,  1905,  p.  36. 
'Vol.  VII,  1905,  p.  120. 

*  Text-book  of  Geology i  4th  ed.,  1903,  p.  128 1. 


466 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


1 

1 

II 

TOUTUMU). 

\  u 

Relrckt. 

1 

1 

P 

Tirandisn  ladusljy. 

\ 

It 

3 

AdTBDce. 

1 

ll 

Retml. 

i 
r 

i 

Advance. 

II 

Is 

Retreal. 

Moottcriu)  Indtutij. 

Achenlian  Industrr, 
Gtelleui  IitduitTj. 

du.liy{Strtpy.  Belgium). 

s 

Retreat. 

1 

I 

MMvinisD  Ind.  (:MesTin,  Selgium). 
Reutelo.mesvinisti  t  Maflle  near 

AdTBOCe. 

Upper. 

Middle 
(Glndal.) 

Reuleli»n  Industry  (Rentel. 
Belgium).' 

Industry 

Ind.,Cromer  F<m;s.  Bed  (Norfolk). 

iDdustrrof  Dewlisb  (Donet). 
Indnsiryof  Sainl-Prest(F™i.ce). 

of  the  Chalk  Plaieiu  (Engtamd). 

Lower. 

1   u 

Upper. 

Wl 

Industry  of  Ptiy-Coarny(Fnuice). 

Middle 

Lower. 

1 

i 

Upper. 

Ml 

Industry  of  Thensy?  (France). 

d 

Middle 
Lower. 

1 

1 

Ml 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  467 

Rutot  has  more  recently  attempted  to  adapt  a  time-scale,  based 
on  the  measure  of  the  advance  and  retreat  of  glaciers,  to  his  system 
of  epochs.  The  values  of  that  portion  dealing  with  the  divisions  of 
the  eolithic  period  are  as  follows : 

Reutelian  epoch  25,000  years. 

MafHean        *'  12,500     " 

Mesvinian     "  12,500     " 

Str^pyan       '*     (transition)  5,000 

Paleolithic  period  84,000 

The  above  estimate  would  give  1 39,CXX)  years  as  the  duration 

of  the  Quaternary,  a  figure  not  considered  excessive  in  the  light  of 

various  estimates  placed  on  the  duration  of  the  earlier  geologic 

periods. 

Conclusions 

A  study  of  the  Rutot  classification  renders  needless  anything 
more  than  the  briefest  summary.  We  have  endeavored  to  give  the 
problem  a  setting  such  as  would  bring  into  relief  its  nature  and 
import.  While  in  reality  the  first  of  the  stone-age  periods,  the 
eolithic  is  the  last  to  receive  recognition. 

To  be  readily  acceptable,  an  idea  must  not  run  counter  to  prej- 
udice. It  must  be  stated  with  clearness  and  authority  and  at  the 
right  time.  The  right  time  does  not  mean  after  there  is  no  longer 
prejudice.  It  means  rather  the  moment  that  the  originator  of  the 
idea  is  able  to  find  one,  or,  better,  several  advocates  who  can  speak 
with  an  authority  equal  to  his  own.  In  Law  the  truth  is  not 
established  by  the  mouth  of  one  witness  only.  Similar  safeguards 
should  protect  a  growing  science. 

The  idea  of  a  primitive  industry  antedating  the  Chellean  was 
proclaimed  not  only  at  a  time  when  it  ran  counter  to  prejudice,  but 
also  before  it  could  be  stated  with  clearness  and  authority.  The 
importance  of  the  Abbe  Bourgeois's  discoveries  at  Thenay  in  1867 
are  still  open  to  question ;  but  the  measure  of  his  prophetic  vision 
finds  abundant  expression  in  present-day  fulfilment.  Bourgeois 
supposed  that  he  had  found  artifacts  in  the  Oligocene.  He  may 
have  been  mistaken.  It  did  not  matter  much,  so  long  as  his 
attempt  inspired  further  effort.  Rames  came  along  later  and  did 
find  artifacts  in  the  Upper  Miocene  at  Puy-Courny.     Before  Rames 


468  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

made  known  his  discovery,  Harrison  had  begun  to  find  worked 
flints  on  the  North  Downs  of  Kent ;  so  that  the  time  to  speak  the 
word  of  authority  was  to  come  with  Rutot's  lucid  presentation  of 
the  combined  evidence,  based  on  stratigraphy,  paleontology,  and 
technology. 

The  importance,  then,  of  verification  cannot  be  too  strongly 
emphasized.  But  there  are  two  kinds  of  verification  :  that  which 
is  done  by  a  third  party  and  that  which  one  does  himself.  Personal 
verification  is,  naturally,  the  most  convincing.  To  make  this 
supreme  test  before  passing  judgment  on  so  important  a  question, 
I  spent  considerable  time  both  in  Belgium  and  in  the  South  of 
England. 

The  question  does  not  admit  of  profitable  study  in  any  other 
way.  My  opinion,  based  on  personal  experience,  is  given  simply 
as  such.  It  is  that  the  existence  of  a  primitive  industry,  antedating 
what  is  commonly  accepted  as  paleolithic,  has  been  established. 
This  industry  occurs  as  far  back  as  the  Upper  Miocene  and  con- 
tinues on  through  the  Upper  Tertiary  into,  and  including,  the  Lower 
Quaternary.  The  distinguishing  characters  of  the  industry  remain 
but  little  changed  throughout  the  entire  period,  the  subdivision  of 
the  period  into  epochs  being  based  on  stratigraphy  and  not  on 
industrial  characters.  The  requirements  in  the  way  of  tools  being 
very  simple  and  the  supply  of  material  in  the  way  of  natural  flakes 
and  fragments  of  flint  being  very  plentiful,  the  inventive  powers  of 
the  population  remained  dormant  for  ages.  Hammer  and  knife 
were  the  original  tools.  Both  were  picked  up  ready-made.  A 
sharp-edged,  natural  flake  served  for  one,  and  a  nodule  or  fragment 
served  for  the  other.  When  the  edge  of  the  flake  became  dulled 
by  use,  the  piece  was  either  thrown  away  or  the  edge  was  retouched 
for  further  use.  If  hammer  or  flake  did  not  admit  of  being  held 
comfortably  in  the  hand,  the  troublesome  points  or  edges  were 
removed  or  reduced  by  chipping.  The  stock  of  tools  increased 
slowly  with  the  slowly  growing  needs.  As  these  multiplied,  and 
the  natural  supply  of  raw  material  diminished,  the  latter  was  supple- 
mented by  the  manufacture  of  artificial  flakes.  When  the  lesson 
of  associating  definite  forms  of  implements  with  definite  uses  was 
learned,  special  types  arose,  notably  the  amygdaloid  implement  and 


MACx:uRDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  469 

the  poniard.  Then  came  the  transition  from  the  eolithic  to  the 
paleolithic,  a  stage  that  has  been  so  thoroughly  investigated  by 
Rutot. 

Finally,  in  the  preparation  of  this  paper,  I  was  enabled  to  settle 
a  question  of  priority  by  discovering  that  it  was  J.  Allen  Brown, 
and  not  Gabriel  de  Mortillet,  who  first  proposed  the  name  "  eolithic." 

The  appended  bibliography  is  far  more  complete  than  any  other 
that  has  been  prepared  on  this  subject,  the  number  of  listed  papers 
and  references  reaching  a  total  of  1 54.  The  only  other  serious 
attempt  at  a  bibliography  was  made  by  the  Rev.  R.  Ashington 
Bullen  in  1903,  and  includes  51  titles. 

Argument,  evidence,  demonstration,  are  mental  stimuli,  the 
potency  of  which  varies  with  the  individual.  That  which  serves  to 
convince  one,  may  not  have  the  slightest  effect  on  another.  If  the 
credulous  are  over-sensitive,  the  incredulous  are  certainly  the  oppo- 
site.    In  neither  case  is  the  argument  necessarily  at  fault. 

To  the  minds  incredulous  on  the  subject  of  the  reality  of  an 
eolithic  industry,  my  advice  is  :  Do  as  Capitan,  Klaatsch,  Schwein- 
furth,  and  others,  including  myself,  have  done.  Examine  the  Rutot 
series  in  Brussels,  methodically  collected  and  classified.  Listen  to 
Rutot's  own  story  supplemented  by  demonstration  with  specimens  ; 
then  go  with  him  to  the  field.  No  one  could  be  more  patient, 
more  obliging,  more  helpful.  But  you  would  probably  lose  sight 
of  these  traits,  momentarily  at  least,  through  the  pervasive  enthusi- 
asm of  their  possessor  and  the  force  and  logic  of  the  demonstration. 
One  day  in  the  field  may  suffice.  It  may  require  several.  If  not 
convinced  finally,  you  will  be  the  first  exception  to  the  rule. 

The  subject,  however,  is  not  so  simple  as  might  be  supposed. 
Even  exhaustive  series  of  specimens,  systematically  arranged  and 
carefully  labeled,  are  cold,  dry,  and  lifeless  until  a  living  soul 
breathes  into  them  the  breath  of  life.  Rutot  sent  a  very  instructive 
series  to  the  Louisiana  Purchase  Exposition  at  St  Louis.^  Un- 
fortunately he  was  not  there  to  interpret  them.  What  impression 
they  made,  even  on  those  accustomed  to  study  stone  artifacts,  re- 
mains to  be  seen.     It  is  a  pleasure  to  be  able  to  record  that,  at  the 

I A  grand  prize  has  been  awarded  to  the  Brussels  Museum  of  Natural  History  for 
the  Rutot  series.     (See  Amer,  Anthropologist,  1905,  vii,  161,  "Classified  Relics.") 


470  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

close  of  the  Exposition,  the  collection  was  sent  as  a  pft  to  Prof. 
F.  W.  Putnam  of  the  Peabody  Museum,  Harvard  University. 

Only  the  other  day  a  professor  of  anthropology  in  one  of  our 
leading  eastern  universities  asked  me  if  I  was  acquainted  with 
Rutot's  publications  on  the  eolithic  question.  When  answered  in 
the  affirmative,  he  further  inquired,  *'  Can  you  make  anything  out 
of  them  ?  I  can't.*'  I  had  to  confess  that  they  puzzled  me  also  at 
first ;  but  that  having  found  Uie  key,  every  difficulty  had  suddenly 
disappeared.  "And  the  key?"  "The  key  is  Rutot  himself 
and  his  environment,"  was  my  answer.  **  Know  him,  cover  with 
him  some,  at  least,  of  the  ground  that  he  has  covered,  and  the 
language  he  speaks  will  no  longer  sound  strange  and  unfamiliar." 

It  is  well  and  even  natural  that  archeologists  should  become 
absorbed  in  local  problems.  That  is,  in  fact,  why  Rutot  has  suc- 
ceeded in  accomplishing  so  much.  It  is  also  well  that  workers  in 
one  part  of  the  world  should  know  and  appreciate  what  is  being 
done  in  other  parts.  It  takes  more  than  weavers  to  make  a 
garment.  There  are  also  cutters  and  fitters.  A  like  division  of 
labor  obtains  among  the  prehistoric  archeologists  who  should  know 
the  figure  that  must  be  clothed  before  they  attempt  to  cut  a  garment 
that  will  fit. 

If  in  the  writing  of  this  paper  even  one  of  several  results  is  ac- 
complished, I  shall  feel  justified  in  the  attempt,  and  well  repaid  for 
the  labor  expended.  While  introducing  to  Americans  certain 
European  authorities,  it  may  also  serve  the  role  of  interpreter,  and 
lead  to  a  better  understanding  and  appreciation  of  what  is  being 
done  on  the  other  side  of  the  Atlantic.  Again,  it  may  incite  some 
to  follow  the  advice  given  above  and  to  investigate  for  themselves  a 
problem  the  correct  solution  of  which  cannot  fail  to  add  materially 
to  our  knowledge  of  humankind. 

Vale  University  Museum, 

New  Haven,  Connecticut. 


maccurdy]  the  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  47 1 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Z867.  Bourgeois,  L  Abbe,     D^couverte  d' instruments  en  silex  dans  le  d6p6t 

a  Elephas  meridionalis  de  Saint- Prest  aux  environs  de  Chartres.      C- 

R.  Acad,  des  sciences,  Paris,  lxiv,  47. 
Bourgeois,  L  Abbe,     £tude  sur  des  silex  travaill^s  trouv6s  dans  les 

d6p6ts  tertiaires  de  la  commune  de  Thenay,  pr^s  Pontlevoy  (Loir-et- 

Cher).    C'R.  Congr.  intern,  d'anthr,  etcT archeoi,  prehs.,  Paris,  p.  67. 
Z87Z.  RiBEiRO,  Carlos,     Descrip^ZLo  de  alguns  silex  e  quartzites  lascados  en- 

contrados  nas  camadas  dos  terrenos  terciario  e  quatemario,   etc. 

Lisbon,  4°. 
z87a.  Bourgeois,   L  Abbe,      Sur  les  silex   consid6r6s   comme  portant  les 

marques  d'un  travail  humain  et  d6couverts  dans  le  terrain  mioc^ne  de 

Thenay.     C-R,  Congr,  intern,  d'anthr,  et  d*archeoi,  prehs,,  Brux- 

elles,  p.  81. 
Briart,  a..  Cornet,  F.,  et  Houzeau  de  la  Haie.     Rapport  sur  les 

d^couvertes  g^ologiques  et  arch^ol.  faites  ^  Spiennes  en  1867.    2«  6d. , 

Mons. 
Cornet,  F.  L.,  et  Briart,  A.     L'honmie  de  I'age  du  mammouth  dans 

la  province  de  Hainaut.     C-R,  Congr.  intern,  d'anthr,  et  d'archeoi. 

prehs,,  Bruxelles,  p.  250. 
RiBEiRO,  Carlos.    Sur  des  silex  taill6s,  d6cou verts  dans  les  terrains  mio- 

c^ne  et  pliocene  du  Portugal.     Ibid.,  pp.  95,  100. 
Z873.  MoRTiLLET,  G.  DE.    Sur  I'homme  tcrtiaire.   Bull,  soc,  d'anthr,  de  Paris, 

2«  s6r.,  VIII,  p.  671. 
Z879.  Mortillet,  G.   de.     L'homme  tertiaire  a  T exposition.     Rev,  d'anthr., 

2«  s^r.,  II,  p.  116. 
z88o.  RiBEiRO,  Carlos.     L'homme  tertiaire  en  Portugal.     C-R.  Congr.  in- 
tern, d'anthr,  et  d'archeol,  prehs.,  p.  81  (see  also  pp.  92  and  94). 
ScHAAFHAUSEN,  H.     L'homme  prehistorique.     Ibid.,  p.  140. 
z88z.  Cartailhac,  £mile.    Note  sur  I'arch^ologie  prehistorique  en  Portugal. 

Bull,  Sac.  d'anthr.  de  Paris,  y   s6r.,  iv,  p.  281. 
Mortillet,  G.  et  A.  de.     Mus6e  prehistorique.     Paris,  C.  Reinwald. 

(2e6d.,  1903.     Paris,  Schleicher  Freres). 
Nadaillac,  Marquis  de,     Les  premiers  hommes  et  les  temps  pr6histor- 

iques  (see  vol.  11  ;  L*  homme  tertiaire).     Paris. 
Z883.  Mortillet,  G.  de.     Silex  de  Thenay.     Bull.  Soc,  d'anthr.  de  Paris, 

3«  sir.,  VI,  p.  852. 
Mortillet,  G.   de.     Le  prehistorique,   premiere  partie.     Paris  :  C. 

Reinwald. 
Z884.  Morse,  E.  S.     Man  in  the  tertiaries  (V'ice-presidential  address,  Section 

H),  Proc.  Amer.  Assoc.  Adv.  Science,  xxxiii,  p.  579. 


472  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

MoRTiLLET,  G.  DE.     Lc  pr^curscur  de  rhommc.    Lhomme,  i,  p.  545. 
Rames,  J.  B.     G6ologie  du  Puy-Coumy.     £clats  de  silex  tortoniens  du 

basin  d'Aurillac  (Cantal).     Mat  p,  V hist,  prim,  et  nat  de  rkomtfu, 

y  s^r.,  I,  p.  385. 
X885.  Arcelin,  Adrien.     Silex  terdaires.     Mat,  p,  V  hist,  prim,  et  nat,  de 

I'homme,  y  s^r.,  11,  p.  193. 
MoRTiLLET,  G.  DE.     Silex  teitiaires  intendonellement  tallies.     Ibid., 

252. 
QuATREPAGES,  A.  DE.     L'homme  tertiaire.     Thenay  et  les  isles  Anda- 

mans.     Ibid.,  p.  97. 
z886.  Delvaux,  £.     Excursion  de  la  soci6t^  i  Mesvin,  ^  Spiennes  et  k  Har- 

mignies,  le  5  Septembre,    1885.     Buii,  Soc,  d'anthr,  de  Bruxeiies, 

IV,  p.  176. 
RuTOT,  A.     Sur  rigc  des  silex  taill^s  recueillis  i  Mesvin  pr^s  de  Mons. 

Ibid.,  p.  134. 
Z887.  Broeck,  ]&.  VAN  DEN.     Note  sur  le  quatemaire  mos6en.    Bull,    Soc, 

d'anthr,  de  Bruxelles,  v,  p.  40. 
Delvaux,  £.     Un  mot  au  sujet  des  silex  pr6sent^s  par  M.  Rutot  i  la 

s^nce  du  !«■  D6cembre,  1885.     Ibid.,  p.  24. 
Rutot,  A.     Quelques  considerations  au  sujet  des  noms  k  donner  aux 

couches  de  la  s6rie  quatemaire.     Ibid.,  p.  31. 
z888.  Cels,  Alph.     Essai  d'une  classification  des  instruments  quatemaires 

en  silex  et  considerations  pr^liminaires  sur  1' existence  de  Thomme  ^ 

r^poque  tertiaire  dans  les  environs  de  Spiennes.     Bull,  Soc,  d'anthr, 

de  Bruxelles,  vi,  p.  1 56. 
Delvaux,  ife.,  et  Houzeau  de  Lehaie  (rapport).     Sur  T^tat  des  ter- 
rains dans  lesquels  M.  Cels  a  d6couvert  des  silex  taill6s  par  rhomme 

tertiaire  en  Belgique.     Ibid.,  p.  188. 
Delvaux,   £.     Age  pal6olithique.     Premiers   essais   d' utilisation  des 

silex  6clat6s.     Les  silex  mesviniens.     Ibid.,  p.  333. 
Rutot,  A.     Sur  les  silex  tailles,  pr^tendument  trouv6s  dans  le  landen- 

ien  inferieur  aux  environs  de  Mons.     Ibid.,  p.  414. 
X889.  Delgado,  J.  F.  Nery.     Les   silex   tertiaires   d'Otta.     C-R,    Congr, 

intern,  d'anthr,  et  d'arch.  prehs,,  Paris,  p.  529. 
Mortillet  a.  de.     Silex  tertiaires,  demonstration  de  leur  taille  inten- 

tionelle.     Ibid.,  p.  534. 
Mourlon,  Michel.     Sur  le  gisement  des   silex   tailles  attribu^s  i 

I'homme  tertiaire,  aux  environs  de  Mons.     Bull,  de  r  Acad,  roy,  de 

Belgique ^y  ser.,  xvii,  p.  499. 
Prestwich,  Sir  Joseph.     On  the  occurrence  of  paleolithic  flint  imple- 
ments in  the  neighborhood  of  Ightham,  Kent,  their  distribution  and 

probable  age.      Quar.  Jour,  Geol,  Soc.^  XLV,  p.  270. 
1890.  Cels,  Alph.     Considerations  compl^mentaires  relatives  aux  silex  mes- 
viniens.    Bull,  Soc.  d'anthr,  de  Bruxelles,  viii,  p.  51. 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  473 

1891.  Prestwich,  Sir],     On  the  age,  formation  and  successive  drift  stages 

of  the  valley  of  the  Darent,  etc.     Quar.  Jour,  Geol.  Soc,  xlvii,  p. 
126. 

1892.  Brown,  J.  Allen.     On  the  continuity  of  the  paleolithic  and  neolithic 

periods.     Jour.   Anthr,  Inst,,    xxii,  p.  66  (first  use  of  the  term 

"eolithic**). 
Prestwich,  Sir  J.     On  the  primitive  characters  of  the  flint  implements 

of  the  chalk  plateau  of  Kent,  with  reference  to  the  question  of  their 

glacial  or  pre-glacial  age  (with  Notes  by  Benj.  Harrison  and  De  Barri 

Crawshay).     Ibid.,  p.  246. 
Z893.  Bell,  A.  M.     Remarks  on  the  flint  implements  from  the  Chalk  plateau 

of  Kent.     Jour.  Anthr.  Inst.,  xxiil,  p.  266. 
Z894.  Abbott,  W.  J.  Lewis.     Plateau  man  in  Kent.     Nat.  Science ^  iv,  p. 

257. 
Jones,  T.  Rupert.     On  the  geology  of  the  Plateau  implements  of 

Kent.     Ibid.,  v,  p.  269. 
MoRTiLLET,    G.    DE.     Classification    palethnologique.       Bull.    Soc, 

d' anthr.  de  Paris,  4*  s6r.,  v,  p.  616.     {St^?\so  Le  pre historique, 

3«  6d.,  19CX),  p.  19.) 
NOETLiNG,  Fritz.     On  the  occurrence  of  chipped  (?)  flints  in  the  Upper 

Miocene  of  Burma.     Records  Geol.  Survey  oj  India,  xxvii,  pt.  3, 

p.   lOI. 

Shrubsole,  O.  a.  On  flint  implements  of  a  primitive  type  from  old 
(pre-glacial)  hill-gravels  in  Berkshire.  London :  Harrison  &  Sons 
{Jour.  Anthr.  Inst.,  xxiv,  p.  44). 

Smith,  Worthington  G.  Man  the  primeval  savage,  pp.  120,  174. 
London :   Edward  Stanford. 

1895.  Harrison,  Benjamin  (Secretary).     High-level  flint-drift  of  the  chalk. 

Report  of  a  committee,  British  Assoc.  Report,  p.  349. 
Prestwich,  Sir  J.     The  greater  antiquity  of  man.      The  Nineteenth 

Century,  xxxvii,  p.  617. 
Prestwich,  Sir].     Nature  and  Art.     Geol.  Mag.,  11,  p.  375. 
Prestwich,  Sir].     Collected  papers  on  some  controverted  questions 

of  geology.     London  :  Macmillan. 

1 896.  Salter,  A.  E.     Pebbly  gravel  from  Goring  Gap  to  the  Norfolk  coast. 

Proc.  Geol.  Assoc,  xiv,  p.  389. 

1897.  Abbott,  W.  J.  Lewis.     Worked  flints  from  the  Cromer  Forest  Bed. 

Nat.  Science,  x,  p.  89. 
Abbott,  W.  J.  Lewis.     History  of  the  Weald.      Trans.  S.  E.  Union 

Sci.  Soc,  p.  26. 
Cuxnington,  Wm.     The  authenticity  of  plateau  man.     Nat.  Science, 

XI,  p.  327. 
Haynes,  Henry  W.     The  tertiary  man.     Appendix  to  Wright's  Man 

and  the  Glacial  Period.     New  York  :  Appleton. 

AM.  ANTH..  N.  S.,  ^ — 32 


474  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Hutchinson,  Rev,  H.  N.     Prehistoric  man  and  beast,  p.  23.     New 

York :  Appleton. 
Laing,  S.     Human  origins,  sixteenth  thousand,  chap.  xi.     London: 

Chapman  &  Hall. 
NoETLiNG,  Fritz.     On  the  discovery  of  chipped  flint-flakes  in  the 

pliocene  of  Burma.     Nat,  Science,  x,  p.  233. 
RuTOT,  A.     Les  origines  du  quaternaire  de  la  Belgique.     Bull.  Soc, 

beige  de  geol.,  de  paleontol.  et  d' hydrol,,  xi,  m^moires. 
RuTOT,  A.     Les  conditions  d' existence  de  Thomme  et  les  traces  de  sa 

presence  au  travers  des  temps  quatemaires  et  des  temps  modemes  en 

Belgique.     Bull,  Soc.  d'anthr,  de  Bruxelles,  xvi,  p.  24. 
Thieullen,  Ad.     Les  v^ritables  instruments  de  I'age  de  la   pierre. 

Paris.     4°. 

1898.  Abbott,  W.  J.  Lewis.     The  authenticity  of  plateau  implements.     Not. 

Science,  xii,  p.  in. 
Bell,  A.  M.     The  tale  of  the  flint.     Longmans  Mag,,  xxxi,  p.  214. 
BuLLEN,    Rev,    R.    AsHiNGTON,    and  Abbott,    W.   J.    Lewis.     The 

authenticity  of  plateau  implements.     Nat.  Science,  xii,  p.  106. 
CuNNiNGTON,  Wm.     On  some  paleolithic  implements  from  the  plateau 

gravels,   and  their  evidence   concerning    "eohthic   man."      Quar. 

Jour.  Geol,  Soc,  Liv,  p.  291. 
Frames,  M.  £.     On  some  stone  implements  found  in  a  cave  in  Griqua- 

land-East,  Cape  Colony.     Jour,  Anthr,  Inst.,  n.  s.,  i,  251. 
Jones,  T.  Rupert.     Exhibition  of  stone  implements  from  Swaziland, 

South  Africa.     Ibid.,  p.  48. 
Kennard,  a.   Santer.     The  authenticity  of  plateau  man  ;  a  reply. 

Nat.  Science,  xii,  p.  27. 
Laville,  a.     Le  gisement  chell6o-moust6rien  a  Corbicules  de  Cergy. 

Bull.  Soc.  d' anthr.  de  Paris,  4*  s6r.,  ix,  p.  56. 
Leith,  G.     On  the  caves,  shell-mounds,  and  stone  implements  of  South 

Africa.     Jour.  Anthr.  Inst.,  n.  s.,  i,  p.  258. 
March,  H.  C.     The  twin  problems  of  plateau  flint  implements  and  a 

glaciation  south  of  the  Thames.      Proc.   Dorset    Nat.   Hist.  Field 

Club,  XIX,  p.  130. 
Rudler,  F.  W.     Presidential  address.     Jour,  Anthr.  Inst.,  n.  s.,  i,  p. 

318. 
Salter,  A.  E.     Pebbly  and  other  gravels  in  southern  England.     Proc, 
Geol.  Assoc,  xv,  p.  264. 

1899.  Bird,  C.     Plateau  implements.    South  Rochester  Naturalist,  11,"^,  ^6^, 
Harrison,  B.     Plateau  implements.     Trans.  S.  E,  Union  Sci,  Soc,  p. 

12. 
LoMAS,  Joseph.     On  some  flint  implements  found  in  the  glacial  depos- 
its of  Cheshire  and  North  Wales.    Proc,  Liverpool  Geol.  Soc,  viii,  p. 

334. 


MACCURDYj  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  475 

PuYDT,  Marcel  de.  Notes  et  constatations  relatives  a  des  gisements  de 
silex  tallies  d^cou verts  sur  la  territoire  des  communes  de  Haine-Saint- 
Pierre,  Ressaix,  £pinois,  etc.,  canton  de  Binche,  province  de  Hai- 
naut  (Belgique).  Bull.  Soc,  d'anthr.  de  Bruxelles,  xvii,  p.  98  (see 
also  BulL  et  mem,  Soc,  d'anthr,  de  Bruxelles,  xix,  m6m.  no.  i). 

RuTOT,  A.  Sur  I'age  des  gisements  de  silex  taill6s  d^cou verts  sur  les 
territoires  des  communes  de  Haine-Saint-Pierre,  Ressaix,  £pinois, 
etc.,  canton  de  Binche,  province  de  Hainaut  (Belgique).  Ibid.,  p. 
231. 

RuTOT,  A.  Sur  le  creusement  de  la  valine  de  la  Lys.  Bull,  Soc, 
beige  de  geol.t  de  paleontol,  et  d'  hydroL,  xiii,  p.  94. 

RuTOT,  A.     Comparison  du  quatemaire  de  Belgique  au  glaciaire  de 
r  Europe  centrale.     Ibid. ,  p.  307. 
xgoo.  AvEBURY,  Lord.     Prehistoric  times,  6th  ed.     (Barely  mentioned.) 

BuLLEN,  Rev.  R.  AsHiNGTON.  Eolithic  implements.  Trans,  Victoria 
Institute,  June  i8th. 

BuLLEN,  Rev.  R.  AsHiNGTON.  The  Prestwich  collection  of  flint  imple- 
ments.    Science  Gossip,  n.  s.,  vi,  p,  379. 

MoRTiLLET,  Gabriel  et  Adrien  de.  Le  pr^historique.  3«  6d.  (see 
introduction  and  part  i).     Paris  :  Schleicher  Fr^res. 

MuNCK,  £.  DE.  Sur  une  s6rie  de  silex  recueillis  dans  le  landenien  re- 
mani6  inf^rieur  aux  d6p6ts  k  silex  mesviniens,  acheul6ens  et  moust6r- 
iens  de  5^int-Symphorien.  Bull,  et  mem.  Soc.  d'anthr.  de  Brux- 
elles,  XIX,  p.  Ixxviii. 

RuTOT,  A.  Quelques  considerations  sur  les  conclusions  stratigraphiques 
i  tirer  de  la  presence  de  T  Industrie  humaine  dans  les  graviers  quater- 
naires.     Bull.  Soc.  beige  de geol.,  de paleon.  et  d' hydroL,  xiv. 

RuTOT,  A.  Sur  quelques  observations  faites  dans  les  carri^res  de  Soi- 
gnies.     Bull,  et  mem.  Soc.  d'anthr.  de  Bruxelles,  xviii,  p.  cxxix. 

RuTOT,  A.  Sur  la  decouverte  de  nombreux  instruments  d' Industrie 
reutelo-mesvinienne  dans  les  carri^res  de  Maffles  (pr^s  d' Ath).  Ibid. , 
p.  cxxx. 

RuTOT,  A.  Les  industries  pal^olithiques  primitives.  Note  sur  la 
decouverte  d'importants  gisements  de  silex  tallies  dans  les  collines  de 
la  Flandre  occidentale.  Comparaison  de  ces  silex  avec  ceux  du 
Chalk-Plateau  du  Kent.     Ibid.,  m^m.  no.  i. 

RuTOT,  A.  Materiaux  pour  1' etude  du  quatemaire  et  des  industries 
paieolithiques.  Bull.  Soc.  beige  degeol.,  de  paleontol.  etd'hydroL,  xiv. 

RuTOT,  A.  Sur  I'aire  de  dispersion  actuellement  connue  des  peuplades 
paieolithiques  en  Belgique.  Bull,  et  mem.  Soc.  d'anthr.  de  Brux- 
elles,  XIX,  p.  xlvii. 

RuTOT,  A.     Sur  I'homme  prequatemaire.     Ibid.,  xix,  mem.  no.  iii. 

RuTOT,  A.  Sur  la  distribution  des  industries  paieolithiques  dans  les 
couches  quatemaires  de  la  Belgique.  C.-R,  Congr.  intern,  d'anthr, 
etd'archeol,  prehs.,  Paris,  Douzi^me  session,  p.  79. 


4/6  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

RUTOT,  A.     Note  sur  la  position  stratigraphique  de  la  Corbicula  flumi- 

nalis  dans  les  couches  quatemaires  du  bassin  anglo-franco-belge. 

Bull.  Soc.  beige  de  geoL,  de  paleon,  et  d'hydroL,  xiv  (m^moires). 
RuTOT,  A.     Expose  sommaire  des  r6sultats  d' excursions  entreprises 

dans  les  ballasti^res  des  environs  de  Paris.     Ibid.,  p.  324. 
1 901.  BuLLEN,  Rev,  R.  AsHiNGTON.     Eolithic  implements.    Jour,  Victoria 

Inst,,  XXXIII,  p.  191. 
Capitan,  L.    L*homme  quatemaire  dans  le  bassin  du  Rh6ne.    (D'apr^s 

le  livre  d*  Ernest  Chantre.)     Revue  de  T  £col€  d'anthr,  de  Hxris, 

XI,  p.  398. 
Chantre,  Ernest.     L'homme  quatemaire  dans  la  vall6e  du  Rb6ne. 

£tude  g^ologique  et  anthropologique.     Ann,  de  V  universite  de  Lyon, 

Nouvelle  s6r. ,  i,  fasc.  4. 
Darbyshire,  R.   B.     On  the  implements  from   the  Chalk  plateau. 

Mem,  and  Proc,  Manchester  Ut,  and  Philos,  Soc,  XLVi,  pt.  i. 
Howorth,  Sir  H.  H.     The  earliest  traces  of  man.     Geol.  Mag.,  dec. 

iv,  VIII,  p.  337. 
Hull,  E.     Eolithic  implements.    Jour.  Victoria  Inst,,  xxxiii,  p.  414. 
Laville,  a.     Coupe  de  la  carri^re  de  Saint-Prest,  silex  tallies.     Bull, 

et  mem.  Soc,  d'anthr,  de  Paris,  5*  s^r.,  11,  p.  285. 
Mahoudeau,  p.  H.,  et  Capitan,  L.     La  question  de  Thomme  tertiaire 

a  Thenay.     Rev.  de  r  Acole  d*anthr.  de  Paris,  xi. 
MuNCK,  £mile  de.     Le  quatemaire  des  plaines  du  Hainaut.     L  An- 

thropologie,  xii,  p.  135. 
Puydt,  Marcel  de.     Au  sujet  de  poignards  de  I'age  de  la  pierre  et 

de  quelque  silex  taill6s  trouves  a  £pinois,  Canton  de  Binche  (Hainaut). 

Bull,  et  mem.  Soc.  d'anthr.  de  Bruxelles,  xix,  m^m.  no.  i. 
Puydt,  Marcel  de.     Sur  quelques  d^couvertes  de  silex  tallies  et  obser- 

yations  au  sujet  de   pieces   presentees  trouvees  a  fepinois,   Engis, 

Genck,  Eysden,  Asch,  etc.     Ibid.,  m^m.  no.  ii. 
RuTOT,  A.     Sur  une  preuve  de  1' existence  de  l'homme  sur  la  crete  de 

TArtois  avant  la  fin  du  pliocene.    Bull.  Soc.  beige  de  geol.,  de  paleon. 

et  dWtydroL,  xv,  p.  29. 
RuTOT,  A.     Sur  la  formation  des  champs  ou  tapis  de  silex  ayant  foumi 

aux  populations  paleolithiques  primitives  la  matiere  premiere  des  in- 
struments et  outils  constituant  leurs  industries.     Ibid.,  p.  62. 
RuTOT,  A.     Sur  la  position  du  cheileen  dans  la  chronologie  palcolithique. 

Bull,  et  mem.  Soc.  d'anthr.  de  Bruxellcs,  xix,  p.  clix. 
WiLLETT,  E.     On  a  collection  of  paleolithic  implements  from  Saver- 

nake.     Jour.  Anthr.  Inst.,  n.  s.,  iv,  p.  310. 
190a.  BuLLEN,  Rev.  R.   AsHiNGTON.     Eohthic   implements,  their  use   and 

meaning.     Proc.  Holmesdale  Nat.  Hist.  Club,  p.  18. 
Harrison,  E.  R.     Eolithic  flint  instruments.  South-eastern  Naturalist, 

p.  16. 


BIACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  477 

Laville,  H.     R^ponse  i  M.  Rutot  sur  son  6tude  g6ologique  et  anthro- 

pologique  du  gisement  de  Cerg^.     BulL  et  mem,  Soc,  d'anthr,  de 

Paris,  5«  sen,  iii,  p.  742. 
Read,  Chas.  H.     A  guide  to  the  antiquities  of  the  Stone  age  in  the 

department  of  British  and  mediaeval  antiquities  (British  Museum. 

Printed  by  order  of  the  trustees),  pp.  10,  25-28. 
Reid,  C.     The  geology  of  the  country  round  Ringwood.     Mem,  GeoL 

Surv,,  p.  33. 
Rutot,  A.     Les  industries  primitives.     Defense  des  6olithes.     Les  ac- 
tions naturelles  possibles  sont  inaptes  i  produire  des  effets  semblables 

k  la  retouche  intentionelle.     Buli.  et  mem,  Soc.  d^anthr,  de  Bruxelles, 

XX,  m6m.  no.  iii. 
Rutot,  A.     £tude  g^ologique   et  anthropologique   du   gisement  de 

Cergy  (Seine-et-Oise).     Ibid.,  m6m.  no.  iv. 
Rutot,  A.     Sur  les  relations  existant  entre  les  calloutis  quatemaires  et 

les  couches  entre  lesquelles  ils  sont  compris.     Bull,  Soc,  beige  de 

geol,,  de  paleontol,  et  d*  hydroL,  xvi,  p.  16. 
Warren,  S.  H.     On  the  value  of  mineral  condition  in  determining 

the  relative  age  of  stone  implements.     Geol.  Mag.,  n.  s.,  dec.  iv, 

IX,  p.  97. 
Thieullen,  Ad.     Le  pr6chell6en  Belgique.     Bull,  et  tnem,  Soc,  d'an- 

thr.  de  Paris,  5*  s6r.,  iii,  p.  756. 
Z903.  Bennett,   F.   J.     Elolitluc  implements  at  Belfast   and  Bloomsbury. 

Geol.  Mag,,  n.  s.,  dec.  iv,  x,  p.  127. 
Bracht,  Eugen.     Bericht  iiber  eine  Reise  nach  den  Fundstellen  der. 

*'  Eolithen  "  in  West  Flandem  vom  29  Mai  bis  9  Juni,  1903.  Zeit, 

f.  EthnoL,  XXXV,  p.  823. 
BuLLEN,  Rev,  R.  AsHiNGTON.     Eoliths  from  south   and  south-west 

England.     Geol.  Mag.,  n.  s.,  dec.  iv,  x,  p.  102. 
Cels,  Alphonse.     Considerations  r6trospectives  ^  I'homme  tertiaire  de 

Spiennes.     Bull,  et  mem.  Soc,  d'anthr,  de  Bruxelles,  xxii,  m6m. 

no.  iv. 
CoURTV,  G.     Sur  les  silex  tertiaires  du  Puy-Coumy.     Bull,  et  mem, 

Soc.  d'anthr.  de  Paris,  5*  s^r.,  iv,  p.  12. 
Hahne,  — .     Diluviale  silexe  aus  der  Borde  bei  Magdeburg.     Zeit,  f, 

EthnoL,  XXXV,  p.  494. 
Jaekel,  O.     Feuerstein-Eolithe  von  Freyenstein  in  der  Mark.     Ibid., 

p.  830. 
Klaatsch,    H.     Anthropologische  und  palaolitische  Ergebnisse  einer 

Studienreise  durch   Deutschland,  Belgien   and  Frankreich.     Ibid., 

pp.  92,  487. 
Klaatsch,   H.     Bericht  iiber  einen  anthropologischen  Streifzug  nach 

London  und  auf  das  Plateau  von  Siid-England.     Ibid.,  p.  875. 
Klaatsch,  H.     Das  Problem   der  primitiven  Silex  artefacte.     Corr,- 


478  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

Blatt  d,  deutschen  Ges,  f,  Anthr,,  EthnoL  u,  Urgeschichte^  xxxiv, 

pp.  102,  136. 
Krause,  Eduard.     Bericht  iiber  die  Konferenz  zur  genaueren  Priifung 

der  in  der  Sitzung  vom  2 1   Mars  d.  J.  vorgeleten  Feuersteinfunde. 

Zeit,  /.  EthnoL,  xxxv,  p.  537. 
RuTOT,    A.     Les   cailloux   de   M.   Thieullen.      Bull,   et  mem,    Soc. 

d'anthr,  de  Bruxelles,  xxi,  in6m.  no.  iii. 
RuTOT,  A.    Esquisse  d'  une  comparaison  des  couches  pliocenes  et  quater- 

naires  de  la  Belgique  avec  celles  du  sud-est  de  TAngleterre.     BulL 

Soc,  beige  de  geoL,  de paleontol,  et  d'  hydroL,  xvii,  p.  57. 
RuTOT,  A.     L*6tat  actuel  de  la  question  de  T antiquity  de  Thomme. 

Ibid.,  p.  425. 
RuTOT,  A.     Le  pr^historique  dans  1' Europe  centrale.     Coup  d'oeil  sur 

r^tat  des  connaissances  relatives  aux  industries  de  la  pierre  ^  1' ex- 
clusion du  n6olithique  en  1903.     C-R.  Congr,  d'archeol,  et  d' hist, 

Dinant. 
RuTOT,  A.     Note  pr61iminaire  sur  les  nouvelles  decouvertes  faites  aux 

environs  de  Ressaix,  pr^s  Binche  (Belgique).     Bull  et  mem,  Soc, 

d'anthr,  de  Bruxelles,  xxii. 
RuTOT,  A.    Sur  les  gisements  pal6olithiques  de  loess  6olien  de  1'  Autriche- 

Hongrie.     Ibid.,  m6m.  no.  vii. 
RuTOT,  A.     Compte  rendu  des  excursions  de  la  session  extraordinaire 

de  la  Soc.  beige  de  g6ol.,  de  pal6on.  et  d'hydrol.  dans  le  Hainaut  et 

aux  environs  de  Bruxelles.     Bull.  Soc.  beige  de  geol.,  de  paleontol,  et 

d'hydrol.,  xvii,  p.  383. 
SCHWEINFURTH,    G.      Stein zeitliche    Forschungen    in    Oberagypten. 

Zeit.f.  EthnoL,  xxxv,  p.  798. 

1904.  Ballet,  Dr.     D6couverte  de  silex  taill^s  pliocenes  a  Saint-Hilaire  en 

Ligni^res  (Cher).     Bull.  Soc.  preh.  de  France,  i,  p.  21. 
LisSAUER,  A.     Die  Sammlung  der  "  tertiar-silex  "  des  Hrn.  Klaatsch. 

Zeit.  fur  EthnoL,  xxxvi,  p.  299. 
Olshausen,  Otto.     Ober  einen  Ausflug  nach  Dr.  Hahnes  diluvialen 

Fundstatten  bei  Schbnebeck  a  E.     Ibid.,  p.  477. 
RuTOT,  A.      Essai  d' Evaluation  de  la  duree  des  temps  quatemaires. 

Bull.  Soc.  beige  de  geologic,  de  paleontol.  et  d' hydroL,  xviii,  p.  13. 
RuTOT,  A.     Sur  la  cause  de  r6clatement  naturel  du  silex.     BulL  et 

mem.  Soc.  d'anthr.  de  Bruxelles,  xxiii. 
RuTOT,   A.      A  propos  du  squelette  humain   de  Galley-Hill  (Kent). 

Ibid. 
ScHWEiNFURTH,  G.    Stein zcitliche  Forschungen  in  Oberagypten.    Zeit, 

f,  EthnoL,  xxxvi,  p.  766. 
Windle,   Bertram,  C.  A.     Remains  of  the  prehistoric  age  in  Eng- 
land, p.  40.     London  :  Methuen  &  Co. 

1905.  Blackenhorn,  D.  Max.     Ober  die  Steinzeit  und  die  Feuersteinarte- 

facte  in  Syrien-Palastina.     Zeit.  f.  EthnoL,  xxxvii,  p.  447. 


■x 


"-> 


MACCURDY]  THE  EOLITHIC  PROBLEM  479 

Capitan,    L.      £tude  anthropologique  et  arch^ologique  de  I'Eg^pte. 

Revue  de  V  Acole  cT  anthropologie  de  Paris,  xv,  p.  24. 
Capitan,  L.     L' Homme,  le  Mammouth  et  le  Rhinoceros  i  I'^poque 

quatemaire  dans  Paris,   sur  1*  emplacement  de  la  rue  de  Rennes. 

Ibid.,  p.  66. 
Deecke,  W.     Zur  Eolithenfrage  auf  Rugen  und  Bomholm.     Carres- 

PondenZ'Blatt  d.  Deutschen  Gesf,  Anthr, ,  Ethnol,  und  Urgeschichte, 

XXXVI,  p.  26. 
DoiGNEAU,  A.     Notes  d'arch6ologie  pr6historique.    Nos  ancetres  primi- 

tifs.   Paris  :  Librarie  C.  Clavreuil. 
Engerand,  Georges.     Six  lemons  de  pr^histoire.      Bruxelles,  Veuve 

Ferd.  Larcier. 
Favreau,  Paul.     Neue  Funde  aus  dem  Diluvium  in  der  Umgegend 

von  Neuhaldensleben,  insbesondere  der  Kiesgrube  am  Schlosspark 

von  Hundisburg.    Zeit,  f,  Ethnol. ,  xxxvii,  p.  275. 


NOTES   ON   THE   SAN   CARLOS   APACHE 

By  ALES   HRDLICKA 

INTRODUCTION 

During  my  visit  to  the  San  Carlos  Apache  in  1900/  and  especi- 
ally while  conducting  researches  into  the  physical  anthropology  of 
this  people  during  the  earlier  part  of  1905,*  I  embraced  the  oppor- 
tunity of  making  some  collateral  observations  of  an  ethnologic  and 
archeologic  nature.  As  the  San  Carlos  people  and  the  country 
occupied  by  them  are  but  little  known  to  ethnologists,  these  notes 
may  prove  of  interest. 

The  San  Carlos  Apache  occupy  largely  the  rugged  country 
extending  southwestward  from  the  White  mountains  in  Arizona, 
between  that  part  of  Salt  river  known  as  Black  river,  and  the  Gila. 
This  section  forms  a  part  of  the  great  White  Mountain  Apache 
reservation.  The  principal  settlements  are  in  the  valley  of  the 
Gila,  from  the  abandoned  Fort  Thomas  to  a  few  miles  beyond  San 
Carlos  agency,  and  in  the  valley  of  San  Carlos  creek  or  river. 
The  people  are  officially  represented  as  consisting  of  the  San  Carlos, 
Coyotero,  and  Ton  to  Apache,  and  in  1904  numbered  1,718  indi- 
viduals. They  subsist  by  agriculture  or  by  working  for  the  whites 
on  the  railroad,  and  at  mines,  the  agency,  and  the  schools,  while 
the  older  members  receive  rations  from  the  Indian  Department. 
The  people  in  general  are  peaceable  and  are  advancing  toward 
civilization  ;  they  are  common-sense  and  clever,  and  are  less  ham- 
pered in  their  progress  by  aboriginal  traditions,  beliefs,  and  obser- 
vances than  other  southwestern  Indians,  notably  the  Pueblos. 
The  Apache  are  also  industrious,  but  are  still  as  improvident  as 
Indians  generally.  Their  morals  suffer  by  the  proximity  of  the 
railroad  and  mining  towns,  and  especially  by  lack  of  restraint  on 
the    manufacture   among   them    of  ///////    {tesvino,    tistvui).     This 

*  Under  the  auspices  of  the  Hyde  Expedition  for  the  Ameucan  Museum  of  Natural 
History,  New  York. 

'  Expedition  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology. 

480 


r 


HRDUCKA]  NOTES  ON  THE  SAN  CARLOS  APACHE  48 1 

liquor,  made  by  fermenting  corn  in  a  peculiar  way,*  is  rendered 
more  intoxicating  by  the  addition  of  roots,  and  sometimes  by  the 
admixture  of  the  vile  whisky  sold  surreptitiously  by  the  whites. 
Abuse  in  the  use  of  this  drink  is  the  cause  of  practically  all  dis- 
order, violence,  and  degradation  in  the  tribe. 

The  San  Carlos  Apache  know  not  whence  they  came.  Fifty 
years  ago  many  of  them  lived  on  upper  Salt  river  ;  some  claim  the 
land  they  had  there  to  this  day,  and  would  like  to  return.  One  of 
the  men  said  he  heard  from  the  elders  that  they  formerly  lived  in 
what  is  now  the  vicinity  of  Flagstaff,  at  the  base  of  the  San  Fran- 
cisco mountains,  whence  they  went  eastward,  and  finally  came  to 
the  Salt  and  Gila  rivers. 

Only  traces  of  their  tribal  organization  remain.  Of  the  divi- 
sions of  the  tribe  known  to  whites  as  Coyoteros,  Tontos,  etc.,  the 
Indians  have  little  knowledge.  No  clans  exist.  The  people  were 
divided  into  numerous  small  bands,  known  by  some  geographic 
peculiarity  of  the  sections  claimed  by  them  as  their  chief  seats,  and 
each  under  a  chief.  Some  of  the  chiefs  were  selected  by  reason  of 
their  prowess  in  war.  A  number  of  the  bands  and  chiefs  are  still 
nominally  recognized  ;  their  names  and  location  are  as  follows  : 

Bands  among  the  San  Carlos  and  nearest  related  Apache 

1.  Ce-ii-ki-dn,  Tce-ce-ii-ki-dny*  "projection  of  a  mountain,"  "pro- 

montory  "  ;  live  about  Talklai ;  chief,  Cil-Cu-a-ni. 

2.  Tti-se-ke-ced-iany  "two  mountains  (together)'';  live  about  a 
mile  below  Talklai ;  chief,  Antonio. 

3.  S-^iS'^e-ne,  "rocky  hill"  ;  live  about  Geronimo  (a  part  of  the 
so-called  Coyoteros);  no  chief. 

4.  Ce-yi-n,  Ce-ytn,  "  cafion  hollowed  in  rock  "  ;  live  about  Geronimo 
(a  part  of  the  Coyoteros);  chief  not  known. 

5.  Tei-Hhy  "red  paint"  (red  vegetal  dye,  used  in  facial  painting 
and  basketry);  live  in  Cibicu  valley;  chief,  Norman  Cassido. 

6.  Ti'dn-a-ye,  "bend  over  from  a  hill  into  a  valley"  ;  live  near 
San  Carlos ;  no  chief. 

7.  Kaz-na-ho-ti'ln^  "valley  of  willows"  ;  live  between  Talklai  and 
San  Carlos;  mixed;  no  chief  known. 

'  See  llrdiicka,  Method  of  Preparing  Tesvino  among  the  White  River  Apaches ; 
American  Anthropologist y  vi,  1904,  pp.  1 90- 1. 

*For  key  to  pronunciation  see  American  Anthropologist^  v,  1 903,  p.  419. 


482  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

8.  Na-tah'tia'di'ti-ln^  "cross  the  river  with  mescal"  ;  some  live  at 
White  Mountain  ;  chief, . 

9.  Ha-gui-te-U^  "head  of  the  valley**  ;  live  above  Talklai ;  chief, 
Talklai. 

10.  Ka-i-dn-din,  "rows  of  trees'* ;  live  in  the  upper  part  of  San 
Carlos  valley  ;  chief  not  known. 

12.  Ce-bi-nai'ti-ey  "surrounded  by  rocks*'  ;  live  4  miles  above  San 
Carlos,  in  San  Carlos  valley ;  no  chief. 

12.  Kai-ha-te-itiy  "growing-up  trees**  (trees  of  a  certain  variety, 
along  the  river);  nothing  definite  is  now  known  about  this  band. 

13.  ThU-dil'gO'iny  "junction  of  two  valleys'*  (where  a  "wash" 
joins  the  river);  nothing  definite  known  about  it. 

Of  several  of  these  bands  only  a  few  individuals  survive,  and 
these  are  scattered  or  have  joined  other  bands. 

DWELLINGS 

The  usual  dwelling  of  the  San  Carlos  Apache  is  known  as  a 
khuva,  but  it  is  also  called  by  the  borrowed  term  tipi.  It  is  made,  by 
the  women,  of  slender,  freshly-cut  poles  and  green  branches  or  brush. 
In  ground-plan  the  khiiva  is  slightly  oval,  measuring  10  to  12  feet 
in  the  longer  and  8  to  9  feet  in  the  shorter  diameter.  The  struc- 
ture is  9  to  10  feet  high,  and  hemispherical  to  bluntly  conical  in 
form.  Occasionally  at  the  entrance  there  is  a  small,  straight  or 
curving  extension  which  serves  as  a  windbreak.  The  poles  forming 
the  framework  of  the  khiiva  are  generally  of  green  willow  from 
which  the  bark  has  been  peeled  ;  these  are  stuck  in  the  ground,  2 
or  2y2  feet  apart,  and  the  tops  bent  over  and  tied  together  with  any- 
thing handy.  There  are  no  forked  supports  and  no  regular  cross- 
ribs,  but  occasionally  some  of  the  sticks  are  bent  and  intertwined 
with  or  laid  obliquely  upon  the  others.  A  slight  opening  is  gener- 
ally left  between  the  saplings  at  the  top  for  the  escape  of  the  smoke. 

The  erection  of  the  dwelling,  the  women  say,  is  easy  enough  ; 
it  takes  but  a  single  day.  It  is  regarded  as  women's  work,  and 
that  is  why  they,  and  not  the  men,  build  it.  When  the  superstruc- 
ture is  finished,  the  interior  is  excavated  to  the  depth  of  1 2  to  18 
inches,  and  most  of  the  earth  piled  against  the  base  of  the  structure, 
making  it  solid  and  keeping  out  water  during  rains.  In  winter  the 
khiiva  is  made  smaller,  in  order  that  it  may  be  warmer ;  in  summer 


I,   RecFnIly  occupied  brulliMaT' 


HRDUCKA]  NOTES   ON  THE  SAN  CARLOS  APACHE  483 

they  build  it  larger,  so  as  to  give  more  shade  and  ventilation.  In 
rainy  weather  it  is  covered  as  much  as  possible  with  sheets  of 
canvas.  No  symbolism  is  connected  with  any  part  of  the  house, 
and  no  ceremony  attends  the  entering  into  a  new  dwelling ;  in  one 
family,  however,  it  was  said  that  they  always  make  a  prayer  when 
going  into  a  new  khiiva,  and  in  one  of  the  dwellings  I  saw  two  eagle 
feathers,  undoubtedly  a  fetish,  tied  to  one  of  the  upright  poles. 

These  simple  Apache  dwellings,  except  during  heavy  rain,  are 
comfortable  and  cheerful,  and  owing  to  the  Cottonwood  and  willow 
branches  with  which  they  are  covered,  are  pleasantly  fragrant.  The 
light  is  subdued,  but  may  be  easily  increased  by  spreading  the 
branches.  The  doorways  are  always  low,  enabling  ready  closure 
and  insuring  warmth,  particularly  at  night.  The  doors  usually  face 
the  west,  because  the  prevailing  winds  in  this  region  are  from  the 
east. 

Although  the  khiiva  is  a  light  structure,  it  is  sometimes  occupied 
for  a  considerable  period.  If  an  accident  befalls  it,  as  sometimes 
happens  through  fire  or  flood,  or  if  it  becomes  necessary  to  burn  it 
and  its  contents  on  account  of  the  death  of  an  occupant,  or  to 
abandon  it  by  reason  of  the  removal  of  the  family  to  another 
locality,  the  loss  is  inconsiderable. 

The  dwellings  are  built  generally  in  groups  of  three  to  six, 
forming  camps,  which,  according  to  the  Indians,  are  occupied  by 
*' friends,"  i.  e.,  related  families.  In  a  number  of  instances  a  family 
lives  in  a  khiiva  near  a  plank  house  built  by  the  Government,  which 
it  prefers  to  use  for  storage  purposes. 

The  San  Carlos  Apache  have  also  a  few  quadrilateral  dwellings 
with  nearly  flat  roofs,  but  these  were  most  probably  introduced  by 
the  Yuma  or  the  Mohave.  There  are  likewise  in  San  Carlos  valley 
the  ruins  of  several  recent  stone  dwellings,  standing  singly  but  built 
much  like  the  houses  of  the  Pueblos.  A  similar  structure,  built 
partly  of  stone  and  partly  of  brush,  is  still  inhabited  (plate  xxx,  2). 

According  to  chief  Cil-cu-a-ni,  his  people,  in  his  childhood 
(about  50  years  ago),  built  the  same  kind  of  khiivas  as  they  do 
to-day.  They  did  not  construct  dwellings  of  stone  or  adobe  until 
after  coming  into  more  intimate  contact  with  the  whites. 

The  khiiva  is  also  the  customary  dwelling  of  the  White  Moun- 


484  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

tain  Apache  of  Arizona.  It  is  less  common,  especially  in  winter, 
among  the  Mescaleros  in  New  Mexico,  many  of  whom  live  in 
tents ;  and  it  is  never  built  by  the  Lipan,  who  formerly  lived,  they 
say,  only  in  tipis  of  buffalo  hide.  The  Jicarillas,  who  also  dwell 
chiefly  in  tents,  sometimes  erect  brush  houses  somewhat  similar  to 
the  khuva,  but  of  different  shape. 

MANUFACTURED   OBJECTS 

In  old  objects  of  their  own  manufacture  the  San  Carlos  Apache 
are  very  poor.  All  that  could  be  found  or  learned  of  were  a  few 
of  the  characteristic  hemispherical  caps,  a  few  violins  and  flutes, 
and  some  nicely  decorated  saddle-bags.  Their  utensils  are  almost 
entirely  those  made  by  the  whites,  or  are  modifications  of  them. 
An  exception  occasionally  seen  is  a  nicely  made  gourd  ladle,  or 
spoon,  the  handle  and  border  of  which  bear  an  incised  decoration 
in  simple  geometrical  figures. 

Basketry,  —  The  women  make  a  limited  number  of  baskets  of 
several  varieties.  They  weave  a  conical,  household  carry-all  bas- 
ket, called  iha-tca,  2  to  2J^  feet  high,  decorated  with  one  to  four 
bands  i  to  ij4  inch  broad,  of  simple  geometric  figures  in  black, 
brown,  reddish,  or  blue,  parallel  with  the  border.  The  coiled  bor- 
der is  strengthened  by  the  inclusion  of  a  stout  stick  or,  in  more 
recent  time,  of  a  heavy  wire  hoop.  A  buckskin  fringe  and  border 
are  occasionally  added  as  a  further  decoration.  This  basket  is 
carried  on  the  back,  a  strap  or  string  that  is  attached  to  one  side 
passing  over  the  forehead,  and  is  used  chiefly  for  carrying  wood. 
Sometimes,  in  event  of  the  death  of  its  maker,  it  is  placed  on  her 
grave. 

Another  and  more  common  type  of  basket  is  a  nicely  decorated, 
more  or  less  concave  plaque,  made  almost  entirely  for  sale.  The 
decoration  is  in  black  (catsclaw),  sometimes  in  black  and  brown 
(catsclaw  and  yucca),  and  the  figure,  as  among  other  Apache,  is 
usually  some  modification  of  a  star-like  motive.  The  workmanship 
in  some  of  these  flat  baskets  is  excellent. 

The  third  variety  is  the  olla-  or  jar-shaped  basket,  with  a 
decoration  of  simple  geometric  pattern  in  black  (catsclaw)  and, 
rarely,  in   brown  (yucca).     Some  of  these  are  of  large  size  and 


HRDUCKA]  NOTES  ON  THE  SAN  CARLOS  APACHE  485 

command  a  high  price ;  one,  38  inches  in  height  and  very  well 
made,  was  sold  during  my  last  visit,  by  the  woman  who  made  it, 
for  fifty  dollars.  The  plaque  and  olla  are  both  of  coil-work,  the 
carry-all  is  twined  weaving. 

The  osiers  used  in  the  basketry  are  principally  of  the  willow 
(ka-jili)  and  the  cottonwood  {tes).  The  shoots  are  cut  in  winter 
and  made  into  bunches  of  1 5  to  20  by  the  women  ;  these  bunches 
are  eventually  bent  into  broad  rings,  placed  in  a  pot,  and  slightly 
boiled  in  order  that  they  may  be  easily  peeled  with  the  fingers, 
occasionally  aided  by  the  teeth.  They  are  then  split  with  the 
teeth,  and  the  flat  outer  splints,  placed  in  bunches  of  30  or  40, 
are  washed  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  dried  in  the  sun,  and  stored  for 
future  use.  The  brownish  red  yucca  root,  called  bi-ka-ah-te^  is 
used  only  occasionally  in  basketry.  The  catsclaw  {ce-gol-sha-ha) 
osiers  are  not  boiled,  but  after  having  been  soflened  in  water  are 
split  in  the  same  way  as  the  willow  sticks,  and  are  likewise  tied  in 
small  bundles  until  needed. 

The  designs  on  the  baskets,  both  those  used  and  those  kept  for 
sale,  have  no  symbolic  meaning ;  they  are  intended  merely  for 
decorative  effect.  A  few  of  the  basketry  designs  are  identical  with 
those  seen  among  the  Pima.  The  red  coloring  is  produced  with 
the  H  plant ;  the  rarer  blue  with  the  ordinary  washing  blue ;  the 
yellow,  restricted  to  the  buckskin  fringes,  with  a  vegetal  dye  or 
an  aniline  color. 

Basket-making  is  taught  to  a  girl  by  her  grandmother  or 
mother  from  the  time  she  is  five  or  six  years  of  age.  She  is  first 
given  young  plants  of  the  e-ka-ie  co-le,  a  yucca  (the  spiny  points  of 
which  are  chewed  off  in  order  that  they  may  not  hurt  her),  the 
leaves  of  which  she  learns  to  interweave.  The  first  style  of  basket 
that  a  young  girl  learns  to  make  is  the  tha-tca.  Coiled  basketry, 
intended  for  sale,  she  does  not  learn  to  weave  until  quite  grown. 

The  White  Mountain  Apache  make  basketry  similar  to  that  of 
the  San  Carlos  people ;  among  the  Mescaleros  and  Jicarillas,  how- 
ever, while  the  decorative  figures  are  related,  the  materials  and 
workmanship  of  the  baskets  are  wholly  different. 

The  old  San  Carlos  women  say  they  always  made  some  deco- 
rated baskets  for  use  in  the  household;  but  the  fine  work  with 


486  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

human  or  animal  figures,  as  well  as  several  of  the  shapes,  originated 
with  the  demands  of  trade. 

Two  of  the  coiled  plaques  collected  for  the  National  Museum 
were  made,  one  in  the  writer's  presence,  by  an  old  woman  totally 
blind.  Both  are  well  woven,  are  of  pleasing  shape,  and  are  dec- 
orated in  simple  geometric  designs  with  martynia. 

Baby-board,  —  The  baby-board  among  the  San  Carlos  Apache, 
called  pi-tca^  or  pi-tcal,  consists  of  an  elliptical  willow  frame  (me-Ua), 
within  which  are  fastened,  close  together,  transverse  ribs  {ka'pa-ne\ 
whittled  from  a  soft  wood  that  grows  along  the  streams.  The  hood 
of  the  cradle  {pi-tha-na-na,  or  pi-tca-na-nd)  is  made  usually  by 
bending  a  number  of  reeds,  placing  them  side  by  side,  and  fastening 
them  together  in  several  rows  with  sinew.  Occasionally  the  hood 
is  woven  from  fresh  reeds  or  branches  in  much  the  same  manner 
as  among  the  Walapai.  The  hood  may  be  painted  red  with  ci  or 
left  uncolored. 

The  baby-board  is  generally  finished  the  first  or  second  day 
after  the  birth  of  the  child.  In  most  instances  it  is  entirely  new, 
but  sometimes  the  frame  of  an  old  cradle  is  utilized.  The  first 
cradle-board  is  approximately  the  size  of  the  baby,  but  when  the 
child  outgrows  it  the  mother  makes  a  larger  one.  Before  the 
baby  is  placed  on  the  board  the  base  is  covered  with  fine  cedar 
bark,  or  grass,  or  pieces  of  old  cloth,  or  even  excelsior,  over  which 
are  placed  several  layers  of  old  calico.  Under  the  head  of  the  child 
are  generally  laid  several  folded  pieces  of  calico,  and  to  the  hood 
is  attached  a  screen  of  muslin  for  the  protection  of  the  infant's  face. 
Being  now  placed  on  the  cradle-board,  the  body  and  feet  of  the 
child  are  covered  with  two  or  more  layers  of  old  but  clean  calico, 
and  then  it  is  laced  to  the  board.  To  facilitate  the  lacing  there  is 
usually  attached  to  the  sides  of  the  cradle-frame  a  strip  of  canvas 
or,  rarely,  buckskin,  with  holes  along  the  free  border.  These  flaps 
extend  partly  over  the  covering  of  the  child,  and  being  laced  to- 
gether, serve  to  hold  it  securely.  The  lacing  is  usually  tight 
enough  to  prevent  free  movement  of  the  body.  The  child  is  laid 
prone  on  its  back,  with  its  arms  along  the  sides,  thus  leaving  only 
the  head  free.  In  this  position  the  infant  is  constantly  kept,  except 
during  the  three  to  five  times  that  it  requires  attention  in  its  wak- 


HRDLICKA]  NOTES   ON  THE  SAN  CARLOS  APACHE  487 

ing  hours  of  the  day,  when  it  is  unlaced,  cleansed,  and  allowed 
freedom  for  a  while.  As  the  child  grows  older  and  strong  enough 
to  be  held  in  a  sitting  position  on  the  mother's  lap,  its  intervals  out 
of  the  cradle  become  longer,  and  they  increase  again,  except  at  night, 
when  the  child  is  able  to  sit  alone.  The  time  for  entirely  discarding 
the  cradle  approaches  when  the  child  begins  to  stand  and  walk  ; 
only  exceptionally  will  a  child  of  1 5  to  1 8  months  still  be  put  in  the 
cradle  a  part  of  the  day  or  night. 

While  laced  on  the  cradle-board  the  child  sleeps  a  large  part  of 
the  time  ;  if  the  lacing  be  loosened,  it  usually  becomes  restless  until 
laced  up  again.  For  this  reason  the  infant  is  kept  on  the  cradle- 
board  at  night,  for  otherwise,  the  women  say,  it  would  disturb  the 
mother's  sleep.  While  the  child  is  sleeping,  the  cradle-board  is 
laid  upon  the  ground  and  the  front  lap  of  the  hood  is  dropped  to 
protect  the  face  from  flies  and  the  light. 

The  pressure  of  the  back  of  the  head  on  the  calico  folds  results, 
in  time,  in  cranial  deformation  know  as  occipital  compression, 
which  is  central  or  lateral  according  to  whether  the  child  habit- 
ually rested  its  head  at  the  back  or  on  one  side.  It  is  remarkable 
that  among  the  older  Apache,  who  were  reared  during  the  restless 
times  when  the  people  were  compelled  to  move  frequently  from 
place  to  place,  carrying  the  children  with  them,  occipital  deforma- 
tion is  much  less  common  and  less  pronounced  than  among  the 
younger  generation. 

Pottery, —  The  San  Carlos  Apache  made  ordinary  pottery  until 
about  twenty  years  ago,  since  which  time  the  industry  has  grad- 
ually ceased.  This  consisted  of  undecorated  cylindrical  cooking 
jars  of  medium  size,  with  convex  to  nearly  conical  bases.  The 
material  used  in  the  manufacture  of  this  pottery  was  river  mud,  to 
which  was  added  a  decoction  of  Sphceralcea  emoryi,  called  by  them 
i-sd-pith-az-ne-he,  or  i-ze-pith-az-ne-he^  which  signifies  **  medicine- 
mix-in-making-jar."  This  plant  was  collected  on  the  mesas,  ground 
up,  roots  and  all,  and  boiled  with  a  little  water.  The  liquid  was  mixed 
with  the  clayey  mass,  and  also  rubbed  on  the  vessel,  inside  and 
out,  before  burning ;  this  was  supposed  to  make  the  ware  tougher 
and  less  pervious. 

Musical  Instruments. — The   musical   instruments  of  the   San 


488  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  190$ 

Carlos  Apache  are  a  flageolet  and  a  peculiar  one-string  violin. 
The  former,  made  of  cane,  is  usually  15  to  20  in.  (38  to  50  cm.) 
long,  and  decorated  with  geometric  designs  cut  in  the  surface  and 
colored,  chiefly  in  blue  and  red.  Plate  xxxi  illustrates  a  good  ex- 
ample of  these  instruments,  obtained  from  one  of  the  Talklai  police- 
men, who  knew  well  how  to  play  it. 

According  to  Mr  E.  H.  Hawley,  specialist  in  musical  instru- 
ments in  the  National  Museum,  this  instrument  is  a  primitive  flag- 
eolet. It  is  made  of  a  straight  piece  of  cane  between  five  joints. 
The  two  distal  septa  in  each  half  (first  and  second,  fourth  and  iifth) 
have  been  removed,  while  the  third,  situated  near  the  middle,  re- 
mains. The  openings,  each  5  mm.  in  diameter,  are  made  in  one 
side,  one  above  the  other,  immediately  below  and  above  the  middle 
partition,  across  which  they  are  connected  by  a  groove  4  mm.  wide 
and  deep.  A  band  of  tanned  deer-skin,  1.7  cm.  broad,  from  which 
a  number  of  tassels  hang  as  a  decoration,  is  fitted  about  the  body 
of  the  flute,  at  the  middle,  and  can  be  slid  up  and  down  within  cer- 
tain limits.  This  band,  which  is  essential  to  the  production  of  the 
sound  of  the  instrument,  is  so  placed  by  the  player  that  it  covers 
the  opening  above  the  middle  septum  and  also  the  groove,  leaving 
the  lower  aperture  to  act  as  a  sound  hole  ;  it  thus  forms  a  whistle 
of  the  tube,  according  to  Mr  Hawley.  In  the  lower  third  of  the 
instrument,  and  in  line  with  the  central  openings,  are  four  finger- 
holes,  each  5  mm.  in  diameter,  the  centers  of  which  are  situated 
9.7,  13.5,  16.4,  and  18.3  cm.  below  the  lower  lip  of  the  sound 
hole.  The  most  distal  aperture  is  closed  with  a  wooden  plug. 
All  the  openings,  as  well  as  the  central  groove,  were  pierced  with  a 
red-hot  iron.  Of  the  decorations  the  most  prominent  is  the  mal- 
tese  cross,  the  symbol  of  a  star.  This  flute  is  48  cm.  long  and  2 
cm.  in  average  diameter. 

The  one-string  violin  is  made  of  a  piece  of  light,  hollow  wood, 
preferably  a  stalk  of  the  agave.  The  body  is  usually  a  cylinder,  5 
to  6.5  cm.  in  diameter  and  30  to  35  cm.  long,  both  ends  of  which 
are  stopped  with  wooden  disks.  The  string  is  of  horse-hair,  tight- 
ened over  a  small  wooden  bridge.  The  bow  consists  of  a  small 
arched  reed,  or  stick,  with  a  few  strands  of  horse-hair.  When 
played,  the  violin  is  held  in  the  left  hand,  which  is  kept  semiflexed. 


hrducka]  notes  on  the  SAN  CARLOS  APACHE  489 

The  tunes  produced  with  this  instrument  by  a  good  player  are  char- 
acteristic and  quite  complex. 

Besides  the  flageolet  and  single-string  violin,  a  few  of  the 
Apache  also  have  a  small  violin  like  that  of  whites,  and  closely  re- 
sembling an  instrument  used  among  several  of  the  Indian  tribes  in 
Mexico.  The  Apache  themselves  regard  this  instrument  as  of 
Mexican  origin.  The  school  girls  and  young  women  are  fond  of 
the  jews'-harp. 

HABITS    AND    CUSTOMS 

The  San  Carlos  Apache,  especially  the  younger  element,  pre- 
serve but  few  of  their  ancient  habits  and  customs.  They  have  no 
distinctive  ceremonies  or  dances,  not  even  such  as  are  still  observed 
by  their  White  Mountain  relatives.  The  writer  heard  of  a  few  medi- 
dne-men  and  one  medicine-woman  who  still  have  recourse  to  in- 
cantations and  fetishes,  and  are  feared  by  the  people  at  large. 
Witchcraft  and  the  efficacy  of  fetishes  are  believed  in,  but  scarcely 
more  than  among  the  lower  classes  of  whites.  A  belief  in  spirits, 
especially  bad  spirits,  or  cin-dis,  exists,  and  number  four,  and  to  a 
lesser  extent  eight,  have  more  or  less  mystic  significance.  Of  folk- 
lore there  are  tales  about  the  coyote,  owl,  badger,  etc.  The  owl 
is  said  to  "  talk  good  Apache."  One  that  had  been  killed  was 
tied  on  a  line  near  a  settlement,  possibly  as  a  protection  against 
something.  Two  badgers  that  had  been  killed  by  the  Apache 
were  hung  by  their  tails  in  the  brush  along  a  road. 

Numerous  observations,  of  physiological  or  medical  interest,  on 
the  food  and  mode  of  life  of  this  people  are  reserved  for  a  more 
comprehensive  account,  but  a  few  brief  statements  on  various  cus- 
toms will  here  be  presented. 

Hair  Dressing,  —  The  hair  of  the  San  Carlos  women  is  trimmed 
to  the  level  of  the  shoulders.  The  girls  and  younger  women  comb 
the  front  hair  over  the  forehead  and  cut  it  in  line  with  the  eyebrows, 
in  the  form  of  a  "bang,"  while  the  remainder  is  allowed  to  fall 
naturally  at  the  sides  and  back. 

Old  women  simply  brush  or  comb  the  hair  backward.  The 
hair  of  the  men  is  always  trimmed  and  permitted  to  hang  at  the 
sides  and  back  without  "  banging."  Bandana  handkerchiefs  are  used 
as  head-bands  by  some  of  the  men. 

AM.  AlfTH.  N.  S. ,  7—33 


490  AMERICAS  AXTHBOPOLOCIST  [x.  il,  7, 

TaUcoing, — The  custom  of  tattooa^  <&d  not  csdst  among  tbe 
old  San  Carios  peo^de,  but  it  is  now  srxy  comnion  among  die 
yfAing,  especially  the  school  giris.  The  people  say  tbe  habit  was 
leaiTicd  from  the  Mohave  settled  near  San  Carlos.  The  tattooing 
is  done  on  the  glabella,  forehead,  middle  of  the  check,  chin,  and 
back  </  the  hand.  The  giris  either  tattoo  themselves  or  one  another, 
the  materials  employed  being  a  needle  or  a  cactus  spine,  and  ink  or 
charcoal.  The  figures  are  good  copies  of  those  seen  among  tbe 
Mohave,  but  their  meaning  is  not  known.  If  the  figure  somewhat 
resembles  a  letter  of  the  alphabet,  the  children  will  say  that  it  rep- 
resents that  character.  The>'  also  tattoo,  particularly  on  their 
hands,  actual  letters,  and  even  names  of  sweethearts  and  relati\'es. 

Record-keeping,  —  In  one  family  a  record  of  the  age  of  the  last 
child  was  kept  by  the  father,  by  marking  on  a  paper  the  number 
of  '*  moons  "  since  the  birth  of  the  child.  Each  moon  was  indicated 
by  a  cross,  and  a  large  dot  was  made  for  each  tenth  moon. 

Mother-in-law  Taboo.  — The  taboo  concerning  the  mother-in-law 
seems  to  be  reciprocal.  Should  a  young  man  persist  in  speaking  to 
his  mother-in-law,  the  latter,  with  her  family,  might  send  him  away 
as  •'  no  good,"  saying  they  "  don't  want  such  a  son-in-law." 

If  she  is  to  live  with  her  married  daughter,  the  mother  builds 
her  hut  near-by,  but  in  such  a  way  that  the  door  faces  another 
direction,  thus  enabling  the  son-in-law,  on  coming  out  of  his  dwell- 
ing, to  avoid  catching  sight  of  her. 

Puberty  Feast.  —  Among  most  of  the  Apache  a  feast  is  celebrated 
when  a  girl  reaches  puberty,  but  among  the  San  Carlos  people  the 
custom  has  apparently  been  abandoned. 

Play  of  Children.  —  While  visiting  the  dwellings  of  the  people, 
and  the  schools,  the  writer  often  observed  groups  of  children  at  play, 
but  no  highly  specialized  native  children's  games  were  seen.  The 
girls  play  more  than  the  boys,  and,  except  about  the  schools,  play- 
mates are  restricted  to  children  of  the  same  family  or  to  relatives. 
The  oldest  child  has  charge  of  the  group.  Play  of  all  kinds  is 
greatly  enjoyed,  tliough  quarrels  sometimes  occur.  On  the  whole 
the  manifestations  of  the  Indian  child  at  play  differ  little  from  those 
of  the  white  child,  unless  it  be  in  the  exercise  by  the  former  of 
greater  patience  and  perseverance. 


hrducka]  notes  on  THE  SAN  CARLOS  APACHE    '  49 1 

The  boys  play  with  bow  and  arrow,  marbles,  and  ball,  and  at 
running.  Girls  play  hide  and  seek,  and  with  pebbles,  cans,  and  dolls  ; 
they  also  make  dolls,  cradles,  and  houses,  and  when  a  supply  of 
good  mud  is  available,  model  tiny  effigies  of  women,  men,  dolls, 
horses  with  their  riders,  other  animals,  and  various  implements  and 
utensils.  In  these  much  ingenuity,  deftness,  and  attention  to  detail 
are  exhibited. 

If,  while  running  about  in  the  brush,  a  stranger  approaches,  the 
girls,  of  whatever  age,  become  quiet  in  an  instant,  and  each  drops 
flat  behind  a  bush  or  other  object,  hiding  quietly  and  motionless 
until  the  intruder  has  passed.  If  they  find  that  he  has  seen  them, 
they  scatter  with  all  rapidity ;  if  one  tries  to  catch  them,  they  cry 
out  angrily ;  and  if  actually  caught,  will  fight  with  all  their  means 
and  strength. 

The  principal  play  of  the  girls  is  the  building  and  furnishing  of 
miniature  houses ;  with  sticks,  leaves,  grass,  and  twigs  they  con- 
struct khuvas  and  shelters,  often  with  remarkable  faithfulness  of 
detail,  placing  in  the  former  miniature  furniture  and  finally  domicil- 
ing therein  a  doll-baby.  About  the  schools  (plate  xxx,  i)  where 
more  girls  congregate,  entire  villages,  striking  in  their  picturesque- 
ness,  are  built  daily. 

Dolls  are  made  by  tying  tufts  of  certain  plants  near  the  top, 
or  from  rags.  With  pebbles  the  girls  play  **  jacks,"  much  as  white 
children  do. 

With  slight  modification  these  details  concerning  the  play  of 
children  apply  to  all  the  Apache  as  well  as  to  other  southwestern 
Indians. 

Training  of  Children,  —  A  boy  among  the  San  Carlos  Apache 
is  taught  by  his  father  and  grandfather  the  various  things  he  is 
supposed  to  know  or  to  be  able  to  do.  This  instruction  begins  as 
soon  as  the  boy  can  talk.  The  first  thing  he  learns  is  to  count. 
When  "big  enough'*  (without  reference  to  his  having  reached 
puberty),  the  boy  goes  out  with  his  father,  who  teaches  him  to  run 
on  flat  ground,  and  then  up  and  down  hill.  He  is  encouraged 
to  break  branches  from  trees,  so  as  to  become  strong;  to  jump 
into  cold  water,  that  he  may  lose  fear  and  learn  to  swim ;  and  is 
taken  out  early  in  the  morning  and  taught  to  race.     The  boy  also 


492  '  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  \yK.  s.,  7,  1905 

learns  to  cut  wood,  to  farm,  and  to  do  many  other  things  a  knowl- 
edge of  which  he  will  find  necessary  later  in  life ;  but  the  prime  ob- 
ject of  his  training,  which  differs  according  to  circumstances,  is  to 
make  him  able,  strong,  and  fearless. 

The  girl  is  trained  by  her  mother,  and  especially  by  her  g^nd- 
mother.  As  with  the  boy,  the  training  begins  very  early,  practically 
as  soon  as  the  child  can  understand  and  control  its  movements ; 
but  it  is  never  systematic  nor  severe.  The  little  one  is  made  to  rise 
early  in  the  morning  and  fetch  water,  and  gradually  she  is  taught 
to  aid  in  the  household  duties  —  in  cooking  and  in  the  care  of  the 
younger  children.  As  before  mentioned,  when  she  is  five  or  six 
years  of  age  she  receives  her  first  lesson  in  simple  basketry ;  but 
the  manufacture  of  decorated  baskets  and  saddle-bags,  and  of  bead- 
work  and  clothing,  she  is  not  taught  until  womanhood  approaches. 

Burials,  —  The  burials  of  the  San  Carlos  Apache  are  never 
found  very  near  the  habitations,  and  sometimes  they  are  four  or 
five  miles  distant.  The  dead  are  placed  in  natural  rock  shelters  in 
the  cliffs,  in  convenient  rock  crevices,  on  a  rocky  mountain  side, 
in  the  earth  or  talus  at  the  base  of  a  hill,  or  in  nooks  of  small, 
unfrequented  canons. 

Two  of  the  canons  near  Talklai  contain  together  more  than 
eighty  burials.  Graves  of  men,  women,  and  children  occur  in  the 
same  locality,  though  they  are  seldom  close  together,  and  some 
are  entirely  isolated.  When  a  burial  is  to  be  made  on  a  hillside, 
the  talus  and  earth  are  removed  until  a  platform  large  enough  to 
receive  the  body  is  formed.  On  this  the  remains  are  placed,  and 
over  them  is  constructed  a  rude  frame  of  rafters  and  brush,  which 
is  covered  with  rocks,  forming  a  heap  4  to  10  feet  broad,  6  to  15 
feet  long,  and  2^  to  4  feet  high  (plate  xxxii,  i).  Earthen  graves 
usually  are  constructed  in  a  similar  manner,  and  are  also  partly 
covered  with  stones.  In  a  few  years  the  framework  of  the  grave 
becomes  decayed  and  falls  in. 

The  body  is  taken  to  the  place  of  burial  by  men  on  horses,  or 
in  a  wagon,  usually  early  in  the  morning  following  the  day  or  night 
of  death.  No  coffin  is  used,  and  nothing  is  placed  beneath  the 
body,  which  is  clothed  as  at  the  time  of  death.  If  the  remains  be 
those  of  a  man,  they  are  also  wrapped  in  a  Navaho  blanket  and  in 


antVES   OF    SAN    CARLOS    APACHE 


I 

I  : 


HRDUCKA]  NOTES  ON  THE  SAN  CARLOS  APACHE  493 

one  or  two  woolen  blankets  or  a  quilt,  and  over  all  is  placed  a 
covering  of  canvas  or  heavy  cotton.  A  woman  is  also  buried  in 
the  garments  with  which  she  was  clothed  at  the  time  of  death, 
accompanied  with  her  beads,  and  the  body  is  likewise  wrapped  with 
blankets  or  cloth ;  but  there  are  not  so  many  of  these  articles  as  in 
the  case  of  a  man.  When  a  child  dies  it  is  dressed  in  numerous 
spare  articles  of  its  clothing  and  is  abundantly  covered.  On  the 
grave  of  a  man  is  usually  found  the  shovel  with  which  the  grave 
was  dug,  occasionally  also  an  ax ;  on  a  woman's  grave,  an  ax  and 
sometimes  a  carrying  basket ;  on  the  grave  of  a  little  child,  a  cradle- 
board  ;  and  on  or  in  the  grave  of  a  larger  child  several  tin  cups  and 
pans.  No  further  attention  is  given  to  the  grave  or  to  the  remains. 
Tree  burial,  which  occurs  among  the  White  Mountain  Apache,  is 
not  practised  by  the  San  Carlos  people,  and  cremation  is  unknown. 

ANTIQUITIES 

With  the  exception  of  the  portion  that  lies  within  San  Carlos 
valley,  the  San  Carlos  reservation  is  poor  in  antiquities,  the  country 
not  having  been  adapted  to  extensive  sedentary  settlement.  No 
petroglyphs  were  observed  within  the  reservation,  nor  indeed  in 
much  of  the  adjacent  region  of  the  White  mountains. 

In  San  Carlos  valley  and  the  neighboring  flats  of  the  Gila,  arch- 
eologic  remains,  consisting  of  ruined  habitations  and  burial  mounds, 
are  more  numerous.  The  habitations  were  in  small  clusters  and 
larger  villages.  At  least  two  villages  of  considerable  size  once 
existed  in  San  Carlos  valley,  the  ruins  of  one  of  them  being  still 
traceable  within  the  grounds  of  the  Indian  school  near  Talklai. 

The  ruins  of  these  habitations  are  marked  on  the  surface  by  single 
or  double  rows  of  stones  and  by  low  mounds  of  moderate  extent. 
The  settlement  near  Talklai  consisted  of  perhaps  200  houses.  No 
regularity  is  observable  in  the  ground-plan  of  the  village ;  often 
two  or  three  dwellings  are  connected,  but  each  such  group  faced 
in  a  different  direction.  All  the  dwellings  were  apparently  of  one 
story.  The  rooms  were  quadrilateral,  some  nearly  square,  and 
averaged  8  by  10  feet  in  size.  The  walls  were  massive,  reaching  a 
maximum  of  two  feet  in  thickness.  The  masonry  consisted  of  slabs 
of  unworked  stone  of  varying  size,  laid  vertically  in  adobe  mortar. 
The  stones  were  obtained  from  the  nearby  river. 


494  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

These  dwellings,  the  floors  of  which  are  now  2  to  2J^  feet 
beneath  the  surface,  are  completely  filled  with  soil  and  debris.  The 
mounds  represent  clusters  of  such  dwellings. 

When  dug  into,  the  rooms  of  the  houses  were  found  generally 
to  contain  a  simple  comer  fireplace,  near  which  potsherds  were 
usually  unearthed.  In  some  of  the  few  cases  in  which  excavation 
was  conducted,  sherds  of  pottery  were  the  only  reward.  In  one 
room,  however,  there  was  found  on  the  floor  about  half  of  the  skel- 
eton, in  a  poor  state  of  preservation,  of  a  person  of  small  stature. 
At  some  distance  from  these  bones  and  about  a  foot  above  the 
level  at  which  they  were  encountered,  there  was  embedded  in  the 
clay,  in  a  vertical  and  apparently  undisturbed  position,  a  small  jar 
of  coiled  ware  filled  with  earth  and  covered  with  a  small  slab  of 
stone.  Another  room  yielded,  in  addition  to  a  few  potsherds,  a 
polished  double-bladed  ax. 

Slight  excavation  conducted  in  the  slope  of  one  of  the  mounds 
exposed  several  rooms,  each  of  which  contained  pottery  vessels  and 
one  or  more  metates  and  manos.  The  pottery  is  chiefly  mediocre, 
and  in  some  instances  quite  crude ;  but  there  were  also  pieces  of 
better  quality,  neatly  decorated  in  white,  black,  and  several  shades 
of  red.  In  two  of  the  rooms  a  large  jar  was  found  partly  filled  with 
calcined  human  bones ;  both  jars  were  covered,  one  with  a  smaller 
jar,  the  other  with  a  fragment  of  a  bowl. 

Several  rooms  in  the  Talklai  ruin  had  previously  been  exca- 
vated by  teachers  in  the  Indian  school.  In  some  of  them  were 
found  entire  pieces  of  pottery,  and  in  at  least  one  room  a  jar  con- 
taining burned  human  bones.  On  the  surface  of  the  ruin,  and  in 
the  piles  of  stones  that  had  been  carted  there  from  part  of  it  that 
had  been  converted  into  an  orchard,  the  writer  found  several  stone 
axes  ranging  from  crude  to  finely  polished,  a  number  of  stone 
pestles  of  similar  workmanship,  many  grinders  varying  in  shape 
and  size,  and  other  stone  objects,  all  of  which  are  now  in  the 
National  Museum.  A  number  of  large,  deep,  broken  mortars  were 
found  in  the  debris.  A  striking  feature  of  the  excavations  was  the 
great  rarity  of  stone  chips  and  the  total  absence  of  arrow  and  spear 
points  and  knives,  apparently  indicating  that  the  energies  of  the 
people  in  implement  making  were  directed  largely  toward  those 


HRDUCKA]  NOTES  ON  THE  SAN  CARLOS  APACHE  495 

employed  in  domestic  life.  Some  arrowpoints  have  been  found  on 
the  neighboring  mesas  by  the  teachers  and  children,  but  their  origin 
is  uncertain. 

From  what  was  seen  of  the  other  ruins,  they  are  identical  in 
character  with  those  here  described.  Some  have  been  dug  into  and 
pottery  containing  burned  human  bones  were  found.  At  San  Carlos, 
on  the  Gila,  a  large  jar  of  coiled  ware,  containing  cremated  human 
bones  and  covered  with  a  bowl,  was  found  in  digging  by  school 
children,  and  at  the  time  of  my  visit  was  in  possession  of  Dr  S.  B. 
Weeks,  superintendent  of  the  school.^  It  may  here  be  remarked 
that  a  somewhat  similar  burial  was  unearthed  early  in  the  present 
year  at  Sacaton,  on  the  Gila,  three  days'  journey  southwestward 
from  San  Carlos.  These  call  to  mind  burials  of  a  kindred  nature 
found  by  Mr  F.  H.  Cushing  in  Salt  river  and  Gila  valleys  for  the 
Hemenway  Expedition,  by  Dr  J.  Walter  Fewkes  in  the  vicinity  of 
Solomonsville  on  the  Gila  for  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology, 
and  a  recent  single  find  near  Fort  Apache.  It  points  to  a  former 
widespread  custom,  among  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  this  section,  of 
cremating  their  dead  and  burying  the  remains  in  jars,  while  at  the 
same  time  some  non-cremated  dead  were  buried  in  the  rooms. 

When  questioned  about  the  ruined  habitations  and  the  people 
who  abandoned  them,  the  Apache  profess  total  ignorance.  They 
say  that  when  they  first  came  into  the  country  the  ruins  were  just 
as  they  are  today.  Their  name  for  the  old  people  is  NaMh-ki-de, 
which  means  '*  ancient  ones.'*  The  fact  should  not  be  overlooked, 
however,  that  their  traditions  are  meager.  Many  of  the  men  who 
would  have  preserved  their  lore  were  killed  during  their  almost  in- 
cessant warfare,  and  the  younger  element  know  little  beyond  per- 
sonal recollection. 

U.  S.  National  Museum, 
Washington,  D.  C. 


1  Several  similar  burials  have  since  been  discovered  in  this  locality,  and  some  of  the 
calcined  bones  and  potsherds  obtained  have  just  been  received  from  Dr  Weeks  by  the 
National  Museum. 


A   PAWNEE   PERSONAL   MEDICINE  SHRINE 

By  GEORGE  A.  DORSEY 

The  following  narration  by  Shooter,  one  of  the  oldest  of  the 
Kitkehaki  tribe  of  Pawnee,  is  interesting  from  several  points  of 
view,  especially  on  account  of  the  light  it  throws  on  the  use  of 
personal  "  medicine  '*  shrines  among  the  Pawnee. 

**  My  father  was  born  a  poor  boy  while  our  people  lived  at  the 
bend  of  the  Republican  river.  As  he  grew  up  he  wandered  about 
trying  to  find  some  way  to  become  prominent  among  the  people. 
He  wandered  away  from  the  village  until  he  came  to  a  high  bluff. 
On  the  south  side  of  the  bluff  was  a  deep  ravine,  with  many  cedars. 
Now,  he  wandered  about  there  until  he  came  to  a  place  in  the  middle 
of  the  cedars,  and  there  he  saw  a  stone  man,  and  about  the  man 
there  were  many  presents.  My  father  filled  his  pipe  and  smoked 
to  the  stone  and  asked  help  of  him.  He  also  placed  some  presents 
in  front  of  the  stone  man,  then  prayed  to  him  for  success.  He  went 
off,  and  in  a  few  days  found  a  camp  of  the  enemy.  He  captured 
many  ponies  and  took  them  home. 

**  A  few  days  afterward  he  started  out  on  the  war  path,  taking 
several  young  men  with  him.  On  the  way  he  told  them  that  they 
must  be  poor  in  heart  and  must  pray  for  success.  When  they 
came  to  the  ravine  he  told  the  others  to  stay  behind,  and  he  went 
on  by  himself.  He  came  to  the  place  where  the  stone  man  was 
and  offered  presents  and  smoked  to  him.  After  he  had  talked  to 
him  he  returned  to  the  other  young  men.  They  continued  their 
journey  and  found  the  tipis  of  some  enemies,  which  they  attacked. 
They  killed  many  and  took  some  scalps.  They  also  captured  many 
ponies.     They  returned  to  their  village  victorious. 

*'  The  people  wondered  why  my  father  had  such  success  in  cap- 
turing ponies  and  killing  enemies.  Oqe  of  his  brothers  begged  him 
to  tell  the  secret  of  his  success.  He  consented  and  told  his  brother 
to  come  with  him.  They  started  to  the  ravine  and  soon  came  to 
the  place  where  the  stone  man  was.     About  him  they  saw  many 

496 


DORSEY]  A  PAWNEE  MEDICINE  SHRINE  497 

presents  of  moccasins,  leggings,  and  many  other  things.  They  made 
presents  to  the  stone  man  and  gave  him  smoke  from  their  pipe. 
When  they  talked  to  the  stone  man  they  said :  *  We  wish  to  touch 
you.  Do  not  be  angry  with  us.*  They  touched  the  stone  man  and 
found  him  to  be  made  of  iron-stone  of  a  greenish  color.  They  be- 
lieved that  the  stone  man  was  a  god,  that  he  had  come  from  one  of 
the  stars  in  the  heavens.  They  kept  the  secret  for  a  long  time.  The 
brother  went  off  and  came  to  a  camp  of  some  other  people,  and  in 
the  night  they  captured  many  ponies  and  took  them  home. 

**  There  was  one  man  in  the  tribe  who  did  not  seem  to  have 
luck  in  anything  that  he  undertook  to  do.  When  he  joined  a  war 
party,  that  party  failed  to  capture  any  ponies.  Everybody  disliked 
him.  Finally  he  was  rejected  by  war  parties.  At  last  he  gave  up 
and  was  looked  upon  as  a  poor  man.  One  day  this  poor  man  de- 
termined to  beg  my  father  to  tell  him  why  he  was  so  successful  in 
capturing  so  many  ponies.  One  night  he  went  to  my  father's  lodge. 
As  he  entered,  my  father  greeted  him  with  *  Nawaf*  and  pointed  to 
a  mat  for  him  to  sit  upon.  The  poor  man  placed  his  hands  upon 
my  father's  head,  passed  them  down  to  his  arms,  and  said :  *  My 
brother,  I  am  poor.  Take  pity  on  me.  Tell  me  what  it  is  that 
makes  you  so  successful  in  capturing  ponies.'  My  father  said  :  *  I 
am  glad  to  hear  you  say  this.  Go  to  your  home.  Have  your 
people  make  moccasins  for  you.  This  night  you  and  I  shall  start 
on  a  long  journey,  and  I  will  show  you  the  thing  that  makes  me 
successful.'  The  poor  man  thanked  my  father  and  went  to  his 
lodge.  He  made  preparations,  then  went  to  my  father's  lodge, 
where  he  found  my  father  smoking  his  pipe  and  waiting  for  him. 
They  started.  For  many  days  they  walked  toward  the  west,  and 
at  last  came  to  the  ravine.  My  father  said  :  *  Now,  my  brother, 
you  are  the  third  man  who  will  know  my  secret.  Where  we  are 
going  there  rests  an  iron-stone  man.  Be  sure  to  be  poor  in  heart. 
Talk  to  the  stone  and  let  all  your  wishes  be  known.  Say  that  you 
are  poor,  and  keep  nothing  back.* 

**  When  they  came  to  the  place  where  the  stone  man  had  always 
stood,  they  saw  that  he  was  gone ;  there  was  only  a  burnt  place 
where  the  stone  had  stood.  My  father  said :  *  My  brother,  the 
thing  is  gone,  but  it  is  a  god.    Fill  your  pipe  and  place  some  of  the 


498  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s..  7,  1905 

tobacco  upon  the  ground  where  he  stood  and  speak  to  him.     He  is 

a  god  ;  he  will  hear  your  words.*     The  poor  man,  instead  of  filling 

his  pipe,  went  to  the  place  and  knelt  down.    He  bowed  his  head  to 

the  ground,  then  stood  up,  and  said :  *  Heavens,  why  could  you  not 

let  this  god  remain  until  I  should  come  ?     He  is  gone,  but  where  ? 

I  shall  pray  to  this  place  where  he  once  stood.     His  power  must 

remain  upon  the  ground.'    He  knelt  down  to  the  ground  and  said  : 

'  My  Father,  the  big  Meteor-star,  I  ask  you  to  take  pity  on  me.     I 

am  poor.     My  people  do  not  like  me.     They  call  me  *  the  poor 

man.*     Now  I  call  upon  you  to  take  away  this  poor  spirit  of  mine 

and  put  a  new  spirit  in  me.     Make  it  for  me  so  that  I  can  capture 

many  ponies.     Make  me  brave  so  that  I  can  kill  the  enemy,  and 

once  in  a  while  let  me  take  a  scalp  so  that  I  may  offer  it  to  the  gods. 

Let  me  become  a  brave,  then  a  chief.*     The  poor  man  arose,  filled 

his  pipe,  gave  a  few  whiffs  toward  the  heavens,  then  a  few  whiffs  to 

where  the  iron-stone  man  had  sat.    As  he  blew  the  whiffs,  he  said  : 

*  Grant  my  wishes.*    Then  he  emptied  the  ashes  from  his  pipe  upon 

the  ground,  where  the  iron-stone  man  had  sat.    My  father  made  his 

offering,  and  they  started  off    After  a  few  days'  journey  they  came 

to  a  village.     The  two  men  captured  several  ponies,  then  they  went 

home. 

**  The  poor  man  became  a  great  warrior.    When  the  village  was 

attacked  by  the  enemy  he  killed  many  of  the  enemy  and  counted 

coup.     Finally  he  was  recognized  as  a  brave  man.     He  was  one  of 

a  delegation  of  chiefs  selected  to  go  to  Washington  to  make  the 

first  treaty,  and  when  the  delegation  returned  from  Washington  he 

wore  upon  his  breast  a  medal  of  one  of  the  presidents.     When  he 

saw  my  father,  he  took  the  medal  from  his  breast  and  placed  it  upon 

him,  saying  :  '  You  shall  be  a  chief,  and  I  shall  be  only  an  errand 

man  for  you,*  —  so  grateful  was  he  to  my  father  because  he  had 

helped  him  when  he  was  in  trouble." 

Field  Columbian  Museum, 
Chicago,  Illinois. 


DRESS  AND   ORNAMENTS   OF  THE   NEW   ENGLAND 

INDIANS 

By  CHARLES   C.  WILLOUGHBY 

HAIRDRESSING 

The  hair  of  the  New  England  Indians  was  dressed  in  various 
ways,  the  styles  being  determined  in  a  measure  by  the  age  and 
station  of  the  individual.  At  the  age  of  puberty  the  boys  were 
permitted  to  wear  it  long;  previous  to  that  period  it  was  cut  in 
various  ways.  Some  of  them  wore  a  long  foretop,  a  long  lock  on 
the  crown,  and  one  on  each  side  of  the  head,  the  rest  of  the  hair 
being  cut  even  with  the  scalp.*  Among  the  Omaha  the  boys 
belonging  to  different  gentes  had  their  hair  cut  in  forms  symbolic  of 
their  particular  gens.*  It  seems  probable  that  a  similar  practice 
was  prevalent  in  New  England.  The  men  sometimes  wore  their 
hair  in  a  loose,  disheveled  manner,^  although  generally,  and  especi- 
ally among  the  better  class,  much  care  was  observed  in  oiling  and 
dressing  it.  The  young  men  and  soldiers  frequently  wore  it  long 
on  one  side,  that  of  the  opposite  side  being  cut  short.*  The  long 
hair  upon  the  left  side  was  bound  into  a  knot.* 

Another  method  which  seems  to  have  been  quite  general  was  to 
gather  and  tie  the  hair  into  a  long  round  knot  at  the  back  of  the 
head,  like  "  a  horse's  tail  bound  with  a  fillet."  *  In  this  knot  or  twist 
feathers  of  the  eagle  or  turkey  were  fastened.^  The  front  hair  was 
cut  short  or  was  shaved  far  up  on  the  head,  the  long  hair  remaining 
being  combed  and  twisted  in  various  ways  and  intertwined  with 

1  Wood,  New  England^ s  Prospect^  p.  72. 

*  Alice  C.  Fletcher,  A  Study  of  the  Omaha  Tribe ^  Smithsonian  Report,  1897,  p.  582, 
pi.  n. 

'John  Ogilby,  America  :  Being  an  Accurate  Description  of  the  New  Worlds  p.  15 1. 

♦Wood,  op.  cit.,  p.  72. 

'Morrill,  Poem  on  New  England ^  Mass.  Hist  Coll.,  ist  series,  vol.  i,  p.  131,  repr. 
1859. 

'Wood,  op.  cit.,  p.  71. 

'  Cookings  Hist.  Collections^  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.,  1st  series,  vol.  i,  p.  153. 

499 


-1 


500  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

feathers,*  as  already  noted.  Higgeson  mentions  one  lock  being 
longer  than  the  rest ;  *  he  probably  refers  to  the  scalp-lock.  The  hair 
of  the  Mount  Hope  warriors  was  trimmed  "  comb  fashion,"  '  that  is 
like  a  cockscomb,  both  sides  of  the  head  being  shaved,  leaving  a 
ridge  of  comparatively  short,  upright  hair  extending  across  the  head 
from  front  to  back.  The  hair  was  sometimes  gathered  and  tied  in 
two  locks  or  rolls,*  the  common  method  among  most  modem 
Indians  who  wear  it  long. 

The  beard  was  rarely  allowed  to  grow,*  but  was  removed  as  it 
appeared.  This  custom  was  not  universal,  however,  for  Brereton  * 
noticed  several  Indians  with  black,  thin  beards  in  the  party  who 
met  Gosnold. 

There  is  little  information  as  to  the  methods  of  dressing 
women's  hair.  Verrazano^  says  they  adorned  their  heads  with 
divers  ornaments  made  of  their  own  hair  which  hung  down  before 
on  each  side  of  their  breasts.  Champlain  ®  saw  a  girl  with  her 
hair  very  neatly  dressed  with  a  skin  colored  red  and  bordered  on 
the  upper  part  with  little  shell  beads.  A  portion  of  it  hung  down 
behind,  the  rest  being  braided  in  various  ways.  Both  sexes  some- 
times powdered  their  hair.* 

TATTOOING 

Tattooing  seems  to  have  been  confined  principally  to  the  cheeks, 
upon  which  totemic  figures  were  made.  Wood  "  writes  that  many 
of  the  better  class  bore  '*  upon  their  cheeks  certain  pourtratures  of 
beasts,  as  bears,  deares,  mooses,  wolves,  etc.,  some  of  fowls,  as  of 
eagles,  hawkes,  etc.,  which  be  not  a  superficial  painting  but  a  cer- 
tain incision  or  else  a  raising  of  their  skin  by  a  small,  sharp  instru- 
ment under  which  they  conveigh  a  certain  kind  of  black  unchange- 
able ink  which  makes  the  desired  form  apparent  and  permanent." 

^Champlain,   Voyages^  vol.  II,  p.  63  (Prince  Society). 

•Higgeson,  Nnu  England  Plantation^  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.,  1st  series,  vol.  I,  p.  123. 

'Drake,  History  of  Philif  s  War,  p.  23. 

*Ibid.,  p.  116. 

*  Champlain,  op.  cit.,  p.  85. 

*  Brereton,  Account  of  Gosnold^ s  Voyage,  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.,  3d  series,  vol.  viii. 
T  Hakluyt,  Divers  Voyages,  liakluyt  Society's  reprint,  p.  65. 

*Op.  cit.,  p.  85. 

•Gookin,  op.  cit.,  p.  153.     S.  G.  Drake,  Tragedies  of  the  Wilderness,  p.  52. 

»0Op.  cit.,  p.  74. 


wiLLOUGHBY]  DRESS  OF  NEW  ENGLAND  INDIANS  50I 

Johnson  *  notes  a  blue  cross  tattooed  ("  dyed  very  deep  ")  over  the 
cheek-bones  of  the  women. 

FACE   PAINTING 

Face  painting  was  common  with  both  sexes,  and  among  the 
men  more  especially  when  on  war  raids.  Soot  was  commonly 
used  for  black,  and  red  earth  or  the  powdered  bark  of  the  pine 
tree  for  red.*  These  were  the  more  common  colors.  White,  yel- 
low, and  blue  were  also  used.  Waymouth  *  saw  men  with  their 
bodies  painted  black  and  their  faces  black  or  red,  some  having 
stripes  of  excellent  blue  over  their  upper  lip,  nose,  and  chin.  The 
eyebrows  were  sometimes  painted  white. 

The  women  painted  their  faces  with  various  colors  and  in  time  of 
mourning  with  black.*  They  "  painted  their  faces  in  the  hollow 
of  their  ^y^s  and  nose  with  a  shining  black,  out  of  which  the  tip  of 
their  nose  appears  very  deformed,  and  their  cheek  bones  being  of 
a  lighter  swart  black  on  which  they  have  a  blue  cross  dyed  very 
deep."  * 

CLOTHING 

The  breech-clout  was  worn  by  both  sexes.  It  was  made  of  the 
skin  of  various  animals,  dressed  with  or  without  the  hair.  Cham- 
plain  saw  the  skin  of  the  doe  and  seal  used  for  this  purpose. 
Archer*  speaks  of  seal  skin,  Waymouth^  of  beaver  skin,  and 
Brereton®  of  black  tanned  skin.  Later  a  strip  of  European  cloth  a 
yard  and  a  half  long  was  used  in  place  of  the  skin  of  an  animal.  A 
girdle  of  snake  skin*  or  other  material  (Samoset's  girdle  was 
fringed)  served  to  support  the  breech -clout,  which  passed  between 
the  legs  of  the  wearer,  its  ends  being  joined  to  the  belt  or  carried 
up  before  and  behind  between  the  body  and  the  girdle,  over  which 

*  Edward  Johnson,  A  History  of  New  England y  Lx)ndon,  1654,  p.  116, 

*  Roger  Williams,  Key  into  the  Language  of  America ^  Coll.  R.  I.  Hist.  Soc.,  vol. 
I,  pp.  154,  160. 

'Waymouth,  Voyage  to  the  Coast  of  Maine,  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.,  3d  series,  vol.  VIII, 
pp.  136,  146. 

^Gookin,  op.  cit.,  p.  153. 

*  Johnson,  op.  cit.,  p.  116. 

•Archer,  Account  of  Gosnold^  s  Voyages,  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.,  3d  series,  vol.  viii,  p.  73. 
^Op.  cit.,  p.  136. 
*0p.  cit.,  p.  88. 
•Ogilby,  op.  cit,  p.  152. 


502  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

they  hung  like  an  apron,  ''  a  flap  before  and  a  tail  behind."  It  is 
probable  that  the  apron  mentioned  by  Williams,  Brereton,  and  other 
writers  was  the  broad  end  of  the  breech-clout  hanging  before.  As 
a  rule  the  boys  wore  no  breech-clout  until  ten  or  twelve  years  of 
age,  but  the  girls  wore  a  "  little  apron "  from  their  birth.*  The 
woman's  breech-clout  hung  down  a  little  longer  behind  than  the 
man's.' 

Usually  neither  sex  wore  any  other  garment  indoors,'  and  it  was 
not  uncommon  in  earlier  days  for  both  sexes  to  appear  out  of  doors 
in  this  scanty  dress.  In  Wood's  time  the  women  usually  wore  an 
additional  short  garment  of  skins  or  of  European  cloth  wrapped 
like  a  blanket  about  their  lions,  reaching  down  to  their  knees,  which 
they  never  put  off  in  the  company  of  Europeans. 

In  addition  to  the  breech-clout  it  was  customary  for  the  men, 
and  sometimes  for  the  boys,  to  wear  close-fitting  leggings  of  tanned 
deer  skin.*  These  were  worn  for  warmth  in  cold  weather,  on  dress 
occasions,  and  by  hunters  as  a  protection  from  brush  and  briers. 
Their  lower  ends  were  fastened  within  the  moccasins^  and  their 
upper  extremities  were  secured  by  straps  to  the  girdle,  which  was 
sometimes  ornamented  with  pendants  or  "  set  with  forms  of  birds  or 
beasts."  The  leggings  were  ornamented  with  designs  in  yellow, 
blue,  and  red.*     The  women  also  sometimes  wore  leggings.^ 

Moccasins  were  made  usually  of  moose  skin,  this  leather  being 
thick  and  durable.  When  moose  skin  could  not  be  obtained,  deer 
skin  was  substituted.  Beautiful  moccasins  of  white  dressed  skin 
embroidered  with  dyed  moose  hair  were  sometimes  worn  by  the 
women.  Such  moccasins  were  worn  at  dances®  and  on  other 
ceremonious  occasions. 

Mantles  or  robes  were  made  of  the  skins  of  the  moose,  deer, 
bear,  beaver,  otter,  raccoon,  fox,  and  squirrel,  and  were  worn  by 

'Williams,  op.  cit.,  p.  106. 
'Champlain,  op.  cit.,  p.  85. 
'Williams,  op.  cit.,  p.  106. 

*Waymouth,  op.  cit.,  pp.  136,  140.  Mourt's  ^f\^\\on^  Journal  of  the  Pilgrims  to 
Plymouth ^  Cheaver's  reprint,  p.  59. 

*  Morton,  Nnv  English  Canaan^  Prince  Society's  reprint,  p.  142. 

'  John  Josselyn,  Tivo  Voyages  to  New  England^  Veazie  reprint,  p.  100. 

"^  Morton,  op.  cit.,  p.  144. 

•Mrs  Rawlandson's  Captivity  in  S.  G.  Drake's  Tragedies  of  the  Wilderness^  p.  5a. 


wiLLOUGHBY]  DRESS  OF  NE IV  ENGLAND  INDIANS  503 

both  sexes.  Beautiful  cloaks  were  manufactured  of  the  iridescent 
feathers  of  the  wild  turkey,  •*  woven  with  twine  of  their  own  mak- 
ing," *  so  that  nothing  could  be  seen  but  feathers.  These  cloaks 
were  usually  the  work  of  the  old  men,*  but  sometimes  were  made 
by  the  women  for  their  children.' 

When  in  the  vicinity  of  Wellsfleet  harbor,  Massachusetts,  Cham- 
plain  *  saw  robes  woven  of  **  grass  and  hemp  scarcely  covering  the  * 
body  and  coming  down  only  to  the  thighs.'*     These  were  probably 
identical  with  the  silkgrass  mantles  of  the  southern  Algonquians 
illustrated  by  John  White  in  1585.* 

A  single  skin  of  the  moose,  deer,  or  bear  served  for  a  man's 
robe.  Moose  skins  were  commonly  dressed  without  the  hair  and 
were  made  **  wondrous  white."  *  Few  examples  of  white-dressed 
buckskin  have  been  preserved.  A  pair  of  old  Algonquian  mocca- 
sins of  this  material  are  in  the  Peabody  Museum  at  Cambridge. 
They  are  of  a  uniform  milk  white,  and  in  texture  resemble  the  finest 
chamois  skin.  When  used  as  a  mantle  the  white-dressed  moose 
skin  was  ornamented  near  its  edges  with  a  border  in  color  laid  on 
with  size  **in  form  like  lace  set  on  by  a  tailor,  and  some  they  stripe 
in  size  with  works  of  several  fashions  very  curious  according  to  the 
several  fantasies  of  the  workmen  wherein  they  strive  to  excel  one 
another."  ^  Verrazano  saw  a  similarly  ornamented  robe  upon  an 
Indian  whom  he  met  in  southern  New  England  in  1524.®  The 
colors  used  were  evidently  red,  blue,  and  yellow.^  The  Nascapee 
and  Montagnais  to  the  north  of  the  St  Lawrence  at  the  present  time 
ornament  the  borders  of  their  deer-skin  robes  and  coats  with  elab- 
orate ancient  patterns  in  these  colors,  laid  on  with  a  size  made  of 
fish  roe,  a  pointed  bone  serving  instead  of  a  brush.  Examples  of 
this  modem  work  may  be  seen  in  the  larger  museums.     Similar 

^  Morton,  op.  cit.,  p.  142. 
•Williams,  op.  cit.,  p.  107. 
'Jossclyn,  op.  cit.,  p.  78. 
*0p.  cit.,  p.  85. 

•For  a  reproduction  of  this  drawing  see  Eggleston,  Household  History  of  the  United 
StateSf  p.  70. 

'Morton,  op.  cit.,  p.  142. 
'  Ibid. 

•Op.  cit.,  p.  65. 
•Jossel3m,  op.  cit.,  p.  100. 


504  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

designs  in  bead-work  upon  the  borders  of  the  cloth  coats  of  the 
Penobscot  and  Micmac  chiefs  are  survivals  of  the  ancient  New 
England  decoration.  These  bead-work  designs  are  also  similar  to 
the  painted  designs  of  the  north.  Certain  decorative  motifs  in  these 
borders  are  persistent  throughout  a  large  portion  of  the  great  Algon- 
quian  area. 

Deer-skin  mantles  were  dressed  with  or  without  the  hair,  and 
a  perfect  tail  greatly  enhanced  their  value.  In  winter  the  hair  was 
worn  innermost.*  Those  especially  prepared  for  summer  wear  were 
dressed  usually  without  the  hair.  These  garments  were  fastened 
at  the  shoulders  with  leather.  They  were  thrown  over  one  or  both 
shoulders  and  brought  usually  under  one  arm.*  When  traveling 
they  were  also  secured  at  the  waist  with  a  belt.  This  belt  was 
sometimes  hollow  and  served  as  a  receptacle  for  parched  com,  the 
usual  food  for  a  journey.^ 

The  common  method  of  wearing  a  mantle  left  one  arm  exposed. 
In  cold  weather  this  arm  was  usually  covered  with  a  **  deepe  furr'd 
cat  [lynx]  skin  like  a  long  large  muffe  which  hee  shifts  to  that  arm 
which  lieth  most  exposed  to  the  winde.*'  * 

One  of  the  Indians  who,  with  Samoset,  visited  the  Pilgrims, 
wore  a  "  wild  cat's  skin  or  such  like  on  one  arm,  '*  *  not  carried  hang- 
ing over  the  arm  as  some  have  supposed. 

Nearly  one  hundred  years  previous  to  the  arrival  of  the  Pilgrims 
Verrazano  also  saw  skins  of  the  bay  lynx  worn  as  arm  coverings 
by  the  Indians  of  southern  New  England. 

Morrell,  in  his  poem  on  New  England,  written  in  1623,  writes 
that  **an  otter  skin  their  right  arms  doth  keep  warm."  Levett 
evidently  saw  beaver  skins  used  in  pairs  as  detached  sleeves.* 
Waymouth  says  some  of  the  mantles  **had  sleeves,  most  had  none." 
He  does  not  make  it  clear,  however,  whether  they  were  attached  to 
the  mantle  or  formed  separate  articles  of  clothing.     The  Nascapce 

*  Levett,  Voyages  to  the  Coast  of  Maine,  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.,  3d  series,  vol.  viii 
p.  178. 

*Higgeson,  op.  cit.,  p.  123. 
'Williams,  op.  cit.,  p.  33. 
*\Vood,  op.  cit,  p.  73. 
*Mourt,  op.  cit.,  p.  59. 
6 Op.  cit.,  p.  170. 


wiLLOUGHBY]  DRESS  OF  NEW  ENGLAND  INDIANS  505 

and  Montagnais  and  the  neighboring  Kskimo  wore  coats  fitted  with 
sleeves,  and  it  is  possible  that  the  eastern  Maine  Indians  may  have 
had  such  garments  in  prehistoric  times,  but  there  is  hardly  enough 
evidence  to  warrant  the  assumption. 

The  men  wore  at  the  girdle  a  pouch  of  dressed  skin  containing 
fire-making  implements.*  A  pipe  and  tobacco  were  also  carried  in 
the  pouch,  which  was  sometimes  suspended  from  the  neck.*  The 
women's  robes  were  longer  and  fuller  than  those  of  the  men.  In- 
stead of  one  deer  or  bear  skin  two  were  sewed  at  full  length.  These 
garments  were  so  long  as  to  drag  on  the  ground  **  like  a  great 
ladies  train."  ^  For  want  of  better  clothing  the  poorer  classes 
sometimes  used  grass  or  the  leaves  of  trees.*  This  practice  does 
not  seem  to  have  been  common.  During  the  first  trading  expedi- 
tion of  the  Pilgrims  the  Indian  women  sold  their  robes  *'  from  their 
backs,  and  tied  boughs  about  them,  but  with  great  shamefastnesse.*'  * 

HEADDRESS 

Eagle  or  turkey  feathers  were  worn  in  the  hair.  A  headdress 
of  upright  feathers  was  also  worn,  which  was  probably  similar  to 
those  common  among  many  modern  tribes.  It  was  like  a  coronet,* 
broadwise  like  a  fan^  or  like  a  turkey-cock's  train.® 

A  curious  head  ornament  of  colored  deer  hair  was  worn,  similar 
to  those  common  among  certain  western  tribes  during  the  century 
just  past.  The  western  examples  are  fastened  to  the  scalp-lock 
and  cross  the  head  from  front  to  back,  the  dyed  hair  of  which  they 
are  made  being  longer  in  front  and  standing  upright.  Gookin* 
describes  those  of  New  England  as  **  deer  shuts  made  in  the  fashion 
of  a  cock's  comb  dyed  red  and  crossing  their  heads  like  a  half 
moon."  Waymouth  refers  to  them  as  a  "  kind  of  coronet  .  .  . 
made  very  cunningly  of  a  substance   like  stiff  hair  colored  red, 

1  Brereton,  op.  cit.,  p.  91* 
'Williams,  op,  cit.,  pp.  55,  108. 
'Morton,  op.  cit.,  p.  144. 
^Champlain,  op.  cit.,  p.  123. 
*Mourt,  op.  cit.,  p.  91. 
*  Brereton,  op.  cit.,  p.  92. 
^Mourt,  op.  cit.,  p.  59. 
•Archer,  op.  cit.,  p.  75. 
•Op.  cit.,  p.  153. 

AM.  ANTU.,  N.  S..  7-34 


506  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [^N.  s.,  7,  1905 

broad  and  more  than  a  handful  in  depth/*  The  skin  of  a  black 
hawk  was  highly  prized  as  a  headdress.  White  feathered  bird 
skins,  a  fox*s  tail,  or  a  rattlesnake  skin  were  also  used.  Head- 
bands decorated  with  wampum  and  other  beads  were  not  uncom- 
mon. 

ORNAMENTS    IN   GENERAL 

Bracelets,  necklaces,  and  head-bands  were  common,  especially 
among  the  women.     Mrs  Rawlandson  saw  a  necklace  of  human 
fingers.*     Ear  pendants  of  copper  were  worn  at  an  early  period. 
Pendants  in  the  form  of  birds,  beasts,  and  fishes,  carved  from  bone, 
shell,  and  stone,  were  worn  in  the  ears,^  also  the  brilliant  skin  of  the 
humming  bird.     Verrazano,'  in  1524,  saw  many  plates  of  wrought 
copper.     Archer  saw  a  piece  of  copper  a  foot  in  length  and  half  as 
wide,  used  as  a  breast-plate.     Brereton,^  in  1602,  saw  a  "  great  store 
of  copper,  some  very  red,  some  of  a  paler  color  [brass] .     None  of 
them  but  have  chains,  earrings  or  collars  of  this  metal.  .  .  .  Their 
chains  are  many  hollow  pieces  cemented  together,  each  piece  of  the 
bigness  of  one  of  our  reeds,  a  finger  in  length,  ten  or  twelve  of 
them  together  on  a  string  which  they  wear  about  their  necks. 
Their  collars  they  wear  about  their  bodies  like  bandoliers,  a  hand- 
ful broad,  all  hollow  pieces  like  the  other  but  somewhat  shorter, 
four  hundred  pieces  in  a  collar,  very  fine  and  evenly  set  together.*" 

From  archeological  data  we  learn  that  native  copper  ornaments 
were  used  to  a  limited  extent  by  the  New  England  Indians,  though 
they  were  probably  never  common.  European  copper  and  brass 
were  acquired  at  a  very  early  date  and  skilfully  worked  into  tubular 
beads  and  other  ornaments.  At  the  time  of  Gosnold*s  voyage 
(1602)  ornaments  of  these  metals  were  so  common  among  the 
southern  New  England  natives  that  they  offered  to  the  explorers 
their  '*  fairest  collars  and  charms  for  a  knife  or  such  like  trifle." 
Beads,  plates,  and  triangular  arrowpoints  of  copper  and  brass  simi- 
lar to  those  seen  by  Brereton  and  other  writers  have  been  taken 
from  graves  and  village  sites  and  may  be  seen  in  both  public  and 
private  collections. 

*0p.  cit.,  p.  48. 
'Wood,  op.  cit.,  p.  74. 
'Op.  cit.,  p.  65. 
*0p.  cit.,  p.  91. 


wiLLOUGHBY]  DRESS  OF  NEW  ENGLAND  INDIANS  507 

Both  discoidal  and  tubular  beads  of  shell  were  used  in  New 
England  at  an  early  date,  but  they  were  probably  rare  and  highly 
prized  in  prehistoric  days.  Champlain  saw  shell  beads  used  in  em- 
broidery and  also  as  ornaments  for  the  hair.  Weymouth  mentions 
bracelets  of  little  round  white  bone  strung  together  on  a  leather 
string.  Bracelets  of  small  shell  beads  were  also  found  by  the 
Pilgrims  on  the  skeleton  of  a  child  at  Cape  Cod. 

The  New  England  Indians  could  have  found  little  difficulty  in 
making  and  perforating  the  discoidal  beads  with  primitive  tools. 
Perforating  the  larger  tubular  beads  must  have  been  difficult,  but  not 
beyond  the  ability  of  the  primitive  artisan. 

There  seems  to  be  little  evidence  that  the  smaller  tubular  shell 
beads  of  the  variety  generally  known  as  wampum  were  made  to  any 
extent  by  the  New  England  Indians  previous  to  the  beginning  of 
the  seventeenth  century.  After  receiving  awls  from  European 
traders  the  Narragansetts  and  Pequots  were  able  to  produce  it  in 
considerable  quantity,  and  these  tribes  grew  **  rich  and  potent  *'  by 
its  manufacture.  Prior  to  1627  there  seems  to  have  been  very 
little  wampum  among  the  New  England  tribes,  its  use  being  confined 
to  "ye  sachems  and  some  spetiall  persons  that  wore  a  litle  of  it 
for  ornament."  *  This  harmonizes  with  what  we  have  already 
learned  of  shell  beads  from  the  early  explorers. 

During  the  visit  of  the  Dutch  to  Plymouth,  in  1627,  they  sold 
to  the  English  50"-  worth  of  wampum  to  barter  with  the  Indians 
for  furs  and  other  commodities.  It  was  two  years  before  this 
small  quantity  was  disposed  of.  The  demand,  however,  steadily  in- 
creased, and  as  it  became  known  among  the  inland  tribes  the  Eng- 
lish could  with  difficulty  obtain  enough  to  supply  the  demand  "  for 
many  years  together.*'  **  Neither  did  the  English  of  this  planta- 
tion, or  any  other  in  ye  land,  till  now  that  they  had  knowledge  of 
it  from  ye  Dutch  so  much  as  know  what  it  was,  much  less  yt  it 
was  a  comoditie  of  that  worth  and  valew.  But  after  it  grue  thus 
to  be  a  comoditie  in  these  parts,  these  Indians  fell  into  it  allso  and 
to  leame  how  to  make  it ;  for  ye  Narigansets  doe  geather  ye  shells 
of  which  y*^  make  it  from  their  shors.  And  it  has  now  contin- 
ued a  current  comoditie  aboute  this  20  years."*     The  purple  por- 

>  Bradford,  History  of  Plymouth  Plantation^  Boston,  1898,  p.  282. 
•Ibid.,  pp.  282-283. 


S08  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s,,  7,  1905 

tion  of  the  quahog  shell  ( Venus  mercenaria)  was  used  for  making 
the  colored  variety  of  wampum. 

Much  of  the  later  white  wampum  seems  to  have  been  made 
from  the  white  part  of  the  same  shell.  The  columella  of  the  peri- 
winkle was  also  used  for  making  the  white  variety.  The  beads  are 
cylindrical  and  are  perforated  lengthwise.  They  average  less  than 
one-fourth  of  an  inch  in  length  by  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in 
thickness.  The  color  of  the  dark  variety  varies  from  a  uniform 
purplish  black  to  a  light  purple,  interveined  with  white  lines  and 
bars.  The  greater  part  of  the  wampum  of  Indian  manufacture  was 
made  by  the  Narragansetts.  The  Dutch  and  the  Swedes  of  the 
middle  states  from  a  very  early  date  manufactured  large  quantities, 
and  as  late  as  1844  it  was  made  and  sold  by  them  to  the  Indian 
traders  of  the  west. ' 

Besides  its  use  as  currency,  wampum  was  woven  into  garters, 
belts,  bracelets,  collars,  ear  pendants,  neck  ornaments,  head  bands, 
etc.  It  was  used  for  ornamenting  bags,  wallets,  and  various  articles 
of  dress.  The  wampum  belt,  woven  of  purple  and  white  beads  in 
symbolic  figures,  served  as  an  inviolable  and  sacred  pledge  which 
guaranteed  messages,  promises,  and  treaties. 

Mrs  Rawlandson  *  mentions  an  Indian  woman  who  wore  a 
"  kersey  coat  covered  with  girdles  of  wampum  from  the  loins  up- 
ward. Her  arms  from  her  elbows  to  her  hands  were  covered  with 
bracelets;  there  were  handfuls  of  necklaces  about  her  neck."  One 
of  King  Philip's  belts,  curiously  wrought  with  *'  black  and  white 
wampum  in  various  figures  and  flowers  and  pictures  of  many  birds 
and  beasts,'*  was  nine  inches  broad  and  when  hung  about  Captain 
Church's  shoulders  reached  to  his  ankles.  Philip  wore  two  other 
belts,  one  with  two  flags  upon  the  back  which  hung  from  his  head, 
the  other  with  a  star  upon  the  end  being  hung  from  his  breast,* 
When  Philip  visited  Boston  he  wore  a  coat  and  leggings  set  with 
wampum  "  in  pleasant  wild  works  "  and  a  broad  belt  of  the  same.* 

Peabody  Museum  of  Archaeology  and  Ethnology, 
Cambridge,  Mass. 


*  Beauchamp,  IVampum  and  Shell  Articles  used  by  the  New  York  Indians^  p.  333. 
'•Op.  cit.,  p.  52. 
'Drake,  op.  cit.,  p.  142. 
*Josselyn,  op.  cit.,  p.  in. 


THE    SPLAYED    OR    SO-CALLED   ''CASCO   FOOT''   IN 

THE   FH^IPINO 

By  albert  ERNEST  JENKS 

In  the  American  Anthropologist  for  April-June,  1904,  there 
appears  an  article  by  Dr  George  A.  Skinner  under  the  title  *'  Casco 
Foot  in  the  Filipino.'*  In  connection  therewith  I  wish  to  present  a 
few  facts. 

I  have  repeatedly  seen  the  abnormal  foot  development  in  ques- 
tion among  all  the  unshod  people  whom  I  have  visited  in  the  islands, 
and  publish  herewith  ( plate  xxxiii )  illustrations  from  various 
groups  of  them  which  show  the  peculiarity.  The  photographs 
were  made  before  Dr  Skinner's  article  was  read,  and  only  three, 
the  bottoms  of  feet  a^  d,  e,  were  taken  to  illustrate  the  abnor- 
mal. The  facts  I  present  are  mainly  those  that  I  had  collected 
before  reading  Dr  Skinner's  article.  They  were  not  gathered  for 
the  purpose  of  refuting  his  thesis  and  conclusions,  which  are  as 
follow : 

**  The  constant  use  of  the  toes  in  the  work  [that  of  propelling 
the  casco  by  throwing  the  human  body  forward  with  the  weight 
against  a  pole,  resting  its  lower  end  on  the  river  bed]  leads  to  a 
peculiar  and  very  great  development  of  the  feet.  .  .  .  One 
must  consider  that  feet  of  this  formation  are  an  attempt  on  the  part 
of  nature  to  adapt  these  people  to  their  occupation  "  (that  of  poling 
the  casco) ;  and,  **  hence  it  appears  to  be  an  occupation  develop- 
ment and  not  hereditary." 

There  is  an  Igorot  man  in  Bontoc  pueblo,  in  the  province  of 
Lepanto-Bontoc,  Luzon,  whose  great  toe  on  one  foot  is  turned  at 
an  obtuse  angle  from  its  normal  position ;  the  extent  of  this  ex- 
treme splaying  may  be  better  understood  by  noting  that  the  great 
toes  shown  in  the  accompanying  illustrations  are  turned  simply  at 
acute  angles  from  the  normal.  I  quote  from  notes  made  in  1903, 
in  Bontoc  pueblo,  a  town  of  mountain  people  : 

509 


5  lO  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7, 1905 

"Twenty  percent  of  the  adults  have  abnormal  feet.  The  most  com- 
mon and  the  most  striking  abnormality  is  that  known  as  fd-imng;  it  is  an 
intuming  of  the  great  toe.  Fd-wing  occurs  in  all  stages,  from  the  slight- 
est spreading  to  that  approximating  forty-five  degrees.^  It  was  found 
widely  scattered  among  the  barefoot  mountain  tribes  of  northern  Luzon. 
The  people  say  it  is  due  to  mountain  climbing,  and  their  explanation  is 
probably  correct,  as  the  great  toe  is  used  much  as  is  a  claw  in  securing  a 
footing  on  the  slippery,  steep  trails  during  the  rainy  season.  Fd-wkng 
occurs  quite  as  commonly  with  women  as  with  men.  This  deformity  oc- 
curs in  one  or  both  feet,  generally  in  both  if  at  all.  An  enlargement  of 
the  basal  joint  of  the  great  toe,  probably  a  bunion,  is  also  comparatively 
common.  It  is  not  improbable  that  it  is  often  caused  by  stone  bruises, 
as  such  are  of  frequent  occurrence  ;  they  are  sometimes  very  serious,  dis- 
abling a  person  many  days  at  a  time. ' ' 

This  bunion  deformity  is  shown  in  plate  xxxiii,  a. 

Not  one  percent  of  the  Bontoc  people  have  ever  seen  the  ocean, 
or  any  water  navigation,  and  none  of  the  people  of  Lepanto-Bontoc 
province,  or,  indeed,  of  any  of  the  Igorot  provinces,  have  any  form 
of  water  transportation  ;  so  water  transportation  has  in  no  way  been 
the  cause  of  their  splayed  feet. 

In  March  of  the  year  1903,  during  a  residence  among  the  Bon- 
toc Igorot  people,  one  of  them,  a  servant  of  ours,  received  such  an 
injury  to  the  basal  joint  of  his  great  toe  from  a  rock  in  the  trail 
that  he  was  unable  to  stand  on  his  feet  for  ten  days.  The  inflamed 
wound  finally  broke  and  considerable  pus  ran  from  it.  The  in- 
jured man  immediately  moved  from  the  town  in  which  we  were 
then  living,  and  I  have  not  seen  him  since ;  but  he  and  others  in 
the  town  said  that  his  great  toe  would  probably  be  spread  somewhat 
from  the  others  in  a  short  time. 

Some  of  the  coastwise  people  say  that  the  splaying  of  their  feet 
is  frequently  caused  by  tree-climbing  —  a  reasonable  explanation, 
as  they  climb  cocoanut  trees  by  walking  up  them  with  their  great 
toes  and  the  tips  of  one  or  two  of  their  smaller  toes  thrust  in  small 
notches  cut  in  the  trunk.  The  majority,  however,  maintain  that 
they  have  no  knowledge  of  the  cause  of  the  intuming  toes,  except 
that  it  is  due  to  working.     This  refers  to  all  kinds  of  work,  but 

*  The  case  of  extreme  splaying  menlione<l  in  the  last  paragraph  had  not  been  dis- 
covered when  this  note  was  made. 


» 


il 


THE  SPLA  YED  FOOT  IN  THE  FILIPINO 


S'l 


especially  to  their  various  forms  of  agriculture ;  it  means  simply 
that  splaying  is  due  to  being  much  on  one's  bare  feet  while  toiling. 

Some  people  who  rides  horses,  as,  for  instance,  the  Sulu  Mores 
of  the  Jolo  archipelago  and  the  Lanao  Moros  in  the  vicinity  of  Lake 

Lanaoin  Mindanao,  have  

stirrups  which  they 
make  in  such  a  way  that 
the  upright  passes  be- 
tween the  great  toe  and 
the  next,  as  shown  in 
figure  21.  This  peculiar 
stirrup  necessitates  a 
spreading  of  the  great 
toe  from  the  others,  and 
in  some  cases  doubtless 
becomes  the  cause  of 
some  of  their  abnormal 
feet. 

On  reading  Dr  Skin- 
ner's article  1  was  inter- 
ested to  know  more  ac- 
curately the  elfect  of  the 
casco  on  the  feet  of  its 
human  propellers ;  but 
not  being  satisfied  with 


Fig.  31.  —  Moro  wooden  stiirap. 


my  own  cursory  investigation  in  one  place,  I  sent  two  clerks  — 
Tagalog  men  of  Manila  —  to  study  at  the  same  hour  the  two  most 
important  water-ways  of  Manila,  namely  the  Pasig  river  and  the 
Binondo  canal.  Thirty-one  cascos  were  examined,  averaging  six 
bugadores,  or  human  propellers,  each,  making  a  total  of  1 86  men. 
Of  these  there  were  only  three  whose  toes  were  spread  even  as 
much  as  shown  in  figure  22,  b.  Those  similiar  to  the  one  shown 
in  f  of  the  same  figure  were  not  counted,  since  they  are  so  common 
in  Manila  as  to  have  been  considered  by  the  two  observers  not  as 
deformed  but  as  natural  feet. 

Everywhere  in  Manila  there  are  men  and  women  with  splayed 
feet  who  have  never  worked  on  cascos.     Three  women  in  Manila, 


512 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


Fig.  22.  —  <j,  r,  Feet  of 
Sakai  men,  Malay  penin- 
sula ;  by  Feet  of  Sakai 
woman  ;  </,  FeetofTagalog 
man  of  Manila,  P.  I.  (nor- 
mal )  ;  <r,  Feet  of  Pampango 
man  of  Pampango  province, 
Luzon  (beginning  to  splay  ; 
it  shows  the  slight  change 
from  the  normal,  </). 


whom  I  have  just  met  on  the  street  and  with 
whom  I  have  spoken,  have  toes  that  turn  in- 
ward greatly,  and  none  of  them  could  give  a 
reason  for  the  abnormality. 

I  do  not  believe  that  this  peculiar  foot  is 
hereditary.  I  have  never  seen  it  in  children 
under  nine  or  ten  years  of  age,  and  many 
inquiries  have  failed  to  reveal  babes  or  small 
children  with  intuming  toes. 

Not  only  are  splayed  feet  common  in  the 
Philippines,  but  they  seem  to  have  been  found 
sufficiently  common  elsewhere  in  the  Orient  to 
have  been  noted  by  men  of  science.  I  quote 
Deniker^  to  this  effect : 

**  We  cannot  enlarge  on  the  exterior  charac- 
ters :  ...  on  the  more  or  less  diverging  big  toe 
which  is  remarked  among  the  majority  of  peoples 
of  India,  Indo-China  and  the  insular  world  de- 
pendent on  Asia,  from  Sumatra  to  Japan,  * '  etc. 

Figure  22,  a,  b,  r,  shows  three  pairs  of  feet 
of  the  Sakai  people  of  Malay  peninsula  —  a 
wild  mountain  people  who  partake  of  the 
characteristics  of  the  Negrito  and  the  Malay. 
Two  are  much  splayed,  while  the  other  might 
easily  become  so.* 

From  the  foregoing  facts  it  would  appear 
that  splayed  feet,  similar  to  those  observed 
among  the  bugadores  in  the  Philippines,  are 
found  over  a  large  part  of  the  area  covered  by 
men  who  possess  to  a  greater  or  lesser  degree 
the  blood  of  an  ancestral  Asiatic  people  who 
may  be  called  the  Primitive  Malayans.     These 


1  Deniker,  The  Races  of  Man^  London,  1900,  pp.  94- 

95. 

^Journal  Anthr.    Inst,   Gr.    Brit,   and  Ireland^  vol. 

xxxii,  pp.  142-152,  1902;  **Some  Anthropological  Results 

of  the  Skeat  Expedition  to  the  Malay  Peninsula,"  by  Laurence 

H.  Duckworth. 


\ 


Y 

It 

Y 
s 

e 

e 

s 

D 


f 


\ 


5 


JENKS]  THE  SPLA  YED  FOOT  IN  THE  FILIPINO  5  1 3 

modem  peoples  occupy  not  simply  the  territory  spoken  of  by  Den- 
iker,  but  they  are  also  well  spread  over  the  Pacific  area. 

It  appears  from  instances  cited  in  this  paper  that  the  abnormality 
may  be  due  to  a  definite  injury  to  the  basal  joint  of  the  toes,  but 
is  most  often  due  to  such  constant  activity  as  gradually  and  usually 
unconsciously  spreads  or  turns  the  toes  inward.  These  facts 
agree  with  Dr  Skinner's  conclusion  that  the  splayed  foot  is  not  due 
to  heredity ;  but  they  do  not  agree  with  his  opinion  that  it  is  the 
result  of  the  particular  occupation  of  poling  the  casco,  and  there  is 
no  evidence  to  show  that  it  is  "  an  attempt  on  the  part  of  nature  to 
adapt  these  people  to  their  occupation/' 

It  is  believed  that  there  is  a  tendency  among  the  various  off- 
spring of  the  Primitive  Malayans  toward  splaying  of  the  feet. 
This  is  probably  due  to  a  weakness  of  the  basal  joints  of  the  toes, 
coupled  with  the  fact  that  the  toes  are  naturally  in,  or  very  near,  a 
straight  line  with  the  inside  of  the  foot,  rather  than  inclined  toward 
the  outer  side.  The  feet  of  Chinamen  in  the  Philippine  islands,  who 
do  as  much  toiling,  barefoot,  as  the  Filipinos,  do  not  appear  to  be 
splayed.  I  fail  to  find  any  with  the  toes  inturning  at  their  bases  ; 
there  are  many  with  the  great  toe  somewhat  separated  from  the 
others,  but  this  spreading  I  believe  is  likely  the  result  of  unshod  feet 
that  constantly  bear  the  body  of  a  hard-toiling  pedestrian.  Since  the 
natural  position  of  Filipino  toes  is  as  stated,  special  habitual  efforts, 
such  as  walking  up-hill,  over  rough  or  slipping  ground,  or  with  the 
weight  against  a  casco  pole,  or  horse-back  riding  with  Moro  stirrups,' 
would  tend  to  produce  the  particular  foot  under  discussion,  provided 
the  tendency  to  weakness  of  the  basal  joints  prevails.  When  we 
see  that  this  abnormality  occurs  commonly,  though  not  hereditarily, 
among  men  spread  over  such  an  extended  area  and  following  such 
varied  pursuits  as  those  of  mountain  pedestrians,  agricultural 
laborers,  coastwise  tree-climbers,  horsemen,  and  rivermen,  the  safest 
conclusion  to  draw  regarding  its  origin  seems  to  be  that  it  is  the 
result  of  various  causes,  most  of  which  further  or  accentuate  a 
natural  tendency,  and  that  it  is  not  the  result  of  any  one  occupation, 
that,  for  instance,  of  propelling  the  casco. 

The  Ethnological  Survey  for  the  Philippine  Islands, 
Manila,  May  31,  ^905- 


IN   MEMORIAM:    WASHINGTON   MATTHEWS 

Washington  Matthews,  soldier,  surgeon,  anthropologist,  poet, 
was  born  in  Killiney,  county  Dublin,  Ireland,  July  17,  1843,  and 
died  in  Washington,  D.  C,  April  29,  1905,  in  his  sixty-second  year. 

Killiney,  the  little  village  in  which  Dr  Matthews  first  saw  the 
light,  is  one  of  the  prettiest  suburbs  of  Dublin,  a  few  miles  south 
from  the  city,  with  the  blue  waters  of  the  bay  in  front  and  the 
blue  mountains  of  Wicklow  behind.  It  is  locally  noted  for  its 
ancient  ruined  church,  dating  back  to  the  sixth  century,  and  for  its 
gray  stoned  cromlech,  the  "  Druids'  Judgment  Seat,"  linking  the 
present  to  the  dim  prehistoric  past.  In  a  letter  written  shortly 
before  the  end,  he  says  of  the  old  home  place  :  *'  In  Ireland,  resi- 
dences with  grounds  around  them  usually  have  proper  names,  a 
custom  which,  in  America,  prevails  more  in  the  south  than  in  the 
north.  The  house  I  was  bom  in,  still  standing  ten  years  ago,  was 
named  Glenalua  (Glean n-a-luaighe),  or  *  Valley  of  Lead.'  There 
was  a  lead  mine  near  there  in  the  ancient  days.  It  was  exhausted 
years  ago,  but  they  still  occasionally  find  small  fragments  of  lead 
ore  when  quarrying  around  Killiney." 

Dr  Nicholas  Blayney  Matthews,  father  of  the  subject  of  our 
notice,  was  himself  a  leading  physician  and  university  graduate  in 
medicine.  With  that  admiration  for  free  government  which  makes 
every  Irishman  half  an  American,  he  named  the  boy  Washington. 
While  the  child  was  still  in  infancy,  the  mother,  formerly  Miss 
Anna  Burke,  died,  and  the  father,  finding  the  old  walks  lonely 
without  the  companion  of  his  love,  closed  up  his  affairs  at  Home 
and  came  to  America  in  1847,  bringing  his  two  motherless  boys 
with  him.  After  a  short  residence  in  Wisconsin,  then  a  territory, 
he  returned  with  his  children  to  Ireland,  where  they  remained 
about  three  years  before  coming  out  again  to  this  country,  this 
time  to  settle  in  Dubuque,  Iowa.  Here  the  boy  grew  up,  having 
his  first  education  in  the  common  schools,  and  at  seventeen  began 
the  study  of  medicine  under  his  father,  with  a  course  of  lectures  at 
the  medical  department  of  the  University  of  Iowa,  from  which  he 

514 


IN  MEMORIAM:    WASHINGTON  MATTHEWS  51$ 

received  the  degree  of  M.D.,  May  28,  1864,  in  his  twenty-first 
year. 

The  civil  war  being  then  in  progress,  Dr  Matthews  at  once 
volunteered  for  service,  and  was  assigned  to  duty  as  acting  assistant 
surgeon  at  Rock  Island,  Illinois,  looking  after  the  Confederate 
prisoners  in  the  government  hospital  at  that  place.  He  remained 
here  until  mustered  out  at  the  close  of  the  war  in  May,  1865,  when 
he  was  immediately  appointed  to  the  regular  army  and  received 
an  assignment  as  post  surgeon  at  Fort  Union,  Montana.  Here  he 
first  came  in  close  contact  with  Indians,  whom  thenceforth  he  made 
a  life  study,  at  a  time  when  they  were  still  wild  and  unsubdued. 

His  subsequent  assignments,  as  given  in  the  army  records,  are 
as  follow:  Post  surgeon.  Fort  Berthold,  N.  D.,  1865-66;  in  the 
field  with  General  Terry's  expedition,  Dakota,  1867;  at  Fort  Ste- 
venson, N.  D.,  1867-68;  post  surgeon.  Fort  Rice,  N.  D.,  1869- 
70;  post  surgeon,  Fort  Buford,  N.  D.,  1870-72;  post  surgeon, 
David's  Island,  New  York  harbor,  November  to  December,  1872 ; 
post  surgeon,  Willet's  Point,  New  York  harbor,  December,  1872 
to  May,  1873;  post  surgeon.  Fort  Wood,  New  York  harbor,  to 
June,  1873  ;  post  surgeon.  Fort  Sullivan,  Maine,  to  November, 
1873  ;  post  surgeon,  David's  Island.  New  York  harbor,  to  Novem- 
ber, 1874  ;  at  Fort  Hamilton  and  Fort  Wood,  New  York  harbor, 
April,  1875  ;  ordered  to  Department  of  California,  April  23,  1875  ; 
Alcatraz  island,  San  Francisco  harbor,  Cal.,  June,  1875  to  April, 
1876;  post  surgeon,  Camp  Independence,  Cal.,  to  July  10,  1877  > 
in  the  field  with  expedition  against  Nez  Perce  Indians,  July  to  Octo- 
ber, 1877;  ^^  ^he  field  with  expedition  against  Bannock  Indians, 
1878;  at  Camp  Bidwell,  Cal.,  to  June  30,  1880;  ordered  to  the 
Department  of  the  Missouri,  September  7,  1880;  post  surgeon. 
Fort  Wingate,  N.  Mex.,  October,  1880  to  April,  1884;  Army 
Medical  Museum,  Washington  City,  1884-90;  Fort  Wingate,  N. 
Mex.  (second  assignment),  1890-94;  retired  for  disability  con- 
tracted in  line  of  duty,  September  29,  1895.  He  was  commissioned 
as  assistant  surgeon  in  1868;  as  captain  and  assistant  surgeon  in 
1871  ;  and  as  major  and  surgeon  in  1889. 

On  his  first  assignment  to  duty  on  the  upper  Missouri  in  1865, 
Dr  Matthews  at  once  became  deeply  interested  in  the  native  tribes 


5l6  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

of  that  region  and  soon  began  the  study  of  the  allied  Hidatsa 
(Minitari),  Arikara,  and  Mandan,  in  the  vicinity  of  Fort  Berthold, 
with  whom  he  remained  in  close  touch  for  much  of  the  next  six 
years.  He  brought  to  this  study  all  the  sympathetic  enthusiasm 
of  a  young  man  and  the  exact  method  of  a  trained  scholar  with 
such  good  result  that  he  mastered  the  Hidatsa  language  —  we  use 
the  word  7nastered  With  its  full  significance  —  so  that,  when  under 
the  disheartening  misfortune  of  the  entire  destruction  of  all  his 
manuscript  notes  and  his  library  by  the  burning  of  his  quarters  at 
Fort  Buford  in  1871,  he  was  able  to  rewrite  from  his  inner  knowl- 
edge the  "Grammar  and  Dictionary  of  the  Hidatsa"  and  the 
**  Hidatsa  (Minnetaree)  English  Dictionary,"  which  remain  to-day 
the  monument  and  authority  on  this  language.  A  second  and  ampli- 
fied revision  of  these  works  was  issued  by  the  U.  S.  Geological 
and  Geographical  Survey  in  1877  under  the  title  ''Ethnography 
and  Philology  of  the  Hidatsa  Indians."  It  was  characterized  at 
the  time  by  a  competent  authority  as  the  most  important  memoir 
on  our  aboriginal  languages  that  had  appeared  since  the  great 
Dakota  dictionary  of  Riggs,  twenty-six  years  before. 

In  1877  ^^  Matthews  married  Miss  Caroline  Wotherspoon, 
daughter  of  Dr  A.  S.  Wotherspoon,  U.  S.  Army.  In  the  years 
thenceforward,  whether  on  the  remote  frontier  or  in  eastern  cities, 
she  was  ever  his  closest  companion,  his  most  helpful  and  interested 
assistant,  his  best  inspiration,  and  his  tender  nurse  at  the  end. 

In  1880,  at  the  suggestion  of  Major  J.  W.  Powell,  director  of  the 
Bureau  of  American  Ethnology,  he  was  transferred  to  duty  at  Fort 
Wingate,  N.  Mex.,  in  the  Navaho  country,  where  he  remained  four 
years,  with  a  second  assignment  of  four  years  more  in  1890-94. 
Here,  a  thousand  miles  removed  from  the  distractions  of  civilization, 
all  his  spare  time  and  energy,  apart  from  his  duties  as  post  surgeon, 
were  given  to  the  study  of  the  great  Navaho  tribe,  at  that  period 
uncontaminated  heathens,  as  he  himself  has  happily  expressed  it. 
The  greater  part  of  this  work,  of  which  the  first  fruits  were  given  to 
the  Bureau  of  American  P2thnology,  was  entirely  a  labor  of  love, 
at  his  own  personal  expense,  involving  the  hiring  and  usually  the 
feeding  of  Indian  informants  and  interpreters,  with  frequent  horse- 
back journeys   over   a   difficult   country   to   witness   ceremonies, 


IN  MEMORIAM:    WASHINGTON  MATTHEWS  517 

identify  sites,  or  collect  plants.  The  results  were  a  marvelous 
revelation.  His  **  Mountain  Chant "  and  "  Prayer  of  a  Navaho 
Shaman  "  awakened  the  scientific  world  to  the  possibilities  of  Indian 
myth  and  ritual,  and  created  an  interest  in  the  subject  which  has 
never  slackened.  His  technologic  studies  in  the  same  field,  as 
embodied  in  his  papers  on  Navaho  weaving  and  silverwork,  and 
his  botanic  and  medical  studies,  chiefly  still  in  manuscript,  are  of 
equal  importance  and  alike  bear  the  stamp  of  careful  exactness. 
The  promise  held  out  by  his  earlier  papers  has  been  amply  fulfilled 
by  his  later  and  larger  works,  **  Navaho  Legends,'*  published  as  a 
memoir  of  the  American  Folk-Lore  Society  in  1897,  and  "The 
Night  Chant,'*  published  as  a  memoir  of  the  American  Museum  of 
Natural  History  in  1902. 

Of  his  Navaho  studies  it  has  been  well  written  :  "  The  char- 
acteristics of  his  work  as  an  ethnologist  are  patience,  thoroughness, 
and  safety.  He  does  not  imagine,  but  stops  with  what  he  knows, 
and  it  is  safe  to  be  said  that  his  work  will  stand  practically  final 
for  the  specialty  he  undertook.  Detail  students  may  yet  add  to 
our  specific  knowledge,  for  his  pet  tribe  will  last  a  long  time,  but 
the  last  generic  authority  on  the  Navaho  will  be,  as  it  is  now, 
Washington  Matthews." 

For  a  term  of  about  six  years,  1884- 1890,  he  was  on  duty  at 
the  Army  Medical  Museum  in  Washington,  during  which  period 
he  gave  special  attention  to  the  study  of  craniology  and  anthro- 
pometry, subjects  at  that  time  hardly  considered  by  American 
science.  Within  the  same  period  also  he  made  two  important 
investigating  expeditions  to  the  Southwest.  The  first  of  these  was 
undertaken  in  the  fall  of  1884,  under  the  auspices  of  the  Bureau 
of  American  Ethnology,  to  the  Navaho  country,  where  by  previous 
arrangement  with  the  priests  he  was  privileged  to  witness  the 
whole  secret  rite  of  the  Night  Chant.  The  other,  in  1887,  was  in 
connection  with  archeologic  investigations  in  the  Salt  river  valley 
of  Arizona,  under  the  auspices  of  the  Hemenway  Southwestern 
Archeological  Expedition.  His  medical  and  anatomic  writings, 
chiefly  during  this  time,  include  a  study  of  consumption  among 
Indians,  several  notable  papers  on  methods  of  cranial  measure- 
ment, and  a  monograph  on  **  Human  Bones  of  the  Hemenway 


5 1 8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Collection/*  published  as  a  memoir  of  the  National  Academy  of 
Sciences  in  1893.  In  the  summer  of  1886  he  took  an  opportunity 
to  revisit  the  places  of  his  childhood  in  the  old  land  across  the  sea. 
In  the  summer  of  1888  he  was  one  of  the  three  physicians  se- 
lected to  attend  General  Sheridan,  lieutenant  general  of  the  army, 
in  his  last  illness.  His  associates  were  Dr  Robert  O'Reilly,  now 
surgeon  general,  and  Dr  H.  C.  Yarrow,  both  of  Washington. 

In  1892,  while  serving  his  second  assignment  at  Fort  Wingate, 
he  was  stricken  by  the  insidious  disease  which  eventually  caused 
his  death.  Two  years  later,  when  it  was  evident  that  his  day  of 
active  service  was  past,  he  was  recalled  to  Washington.  On  Sep- 
tember 29,  189s,  in  accordance  with  the  verdict  of  an  examining 
board,  he  was  retired  for  disability. 

The  disease  slowly  progressed,  but  although  for  several  years 
before  the  end  came  he  was  an  almost  total  physical  wreck,  unable 
to  go  about  alone,  cut  off  from  conversation,  frequently  suffering 
intense  agony,  and  with  no  hope  of  recovery,  yet  he  kept  his  mind 
clear  and  his  heart  brave  and  warm  to  the  last,  and  some  of  his 
best  and  most  monumental  work  was  produced  during  weeks  of 
pain  when  he  was  scarcely  able  to  move  without  assistance.  At 
last  the  strength  of  what  was  once  a  magnificent  frame  was  utterly 
sapped.  While  writing  at  his  desk  he  attempted  to  rise  unaided, 
but  the  effort  was  too  great.  He  fell  to  the  floor,  sustaining  such 
injury  that  medical  science  was  powerless  to  help,  and  his  life 
passed  away  a  few  weeks  later.  He  was  buried  as  a  soldier  at 
Arlington  where  rest  his  oldtime  friends  and  associates,  Sheridan, 
Mallery,  Bourke,  Coues,  and  Powell.  He  is  survived  by  his  wife, 
by  several  relatives  in  Iowa,  and  by  his  father's  sister  in  Ireland. 

Dr  Matthews  took  an  active  interest  in  scientific  things  and 
was  a  member  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association, 
American  Association  for  the  Advancement  of  Science,  American 
Climatological  Association,  Association  of  American  Anatomists, 
Anthropological  Society  of  Washington,  Philosophical  Society  of 
Washington,  National  Geographic  Society,  American  Folk-Lore  So- 
ciety, Chicago  Folk-Lore  Society,  and  Torrey  Botanical  Club.  He 
served  as  vice-president  of  the  Chicago  Folk-Lore  Society  in  1894, 
and  as  president  of  the  American  Folk-Lore  Society  in  1 896.     In 


IN  MEMORIAM:    WASHINGTON  MATTHEWS  519 

1888  he  received  the  degree  of  LL.D.  from  his  own  university  in 
recognition  of  his  philologic  work.  Besides  a  fluent  knowledge 
of  Hidatsa  and  a  good  acquaintance  with  Navaho,  he  had  at  com- 
mand both  German  and  Spanish,  while  his  English  was  always  a 
model  of  literary  style.  He  was  an  expert  botanist,  a  skilful  mathe- 
matician, and  an  artist  of  some  ability  in  oil  colors.  Those  familiar 
with  his  Indian  ritual  interpretations  and  with  his  sometimes  con- 
cealed identity  knew  him  for  a  poet  even  without  the  proof  offered 
by  the  following  little  gem  written  at  Gloucester,  Mass.,  a  short 
time  before  his  death  : 

THE  CONTRAST » 

Dark  days  around  the  Gloucester  moors 

Have  come  again. 
With  winds  that  wail  and  mists  that  trail 

O'er  land  and  sea  ; 
But  darker  days  are  in  my  soul, 

Sad  is  my  lot, 
Despair  and  pain  are  with  me  here  — 

Alice  is  not. 

Bright  days  around  the  Gloucester  moors 

Are  now  with  me  ; 
Clear  is  the  sky  and  fair  the  land 

And  calm  the  sea. 
The  days  within  my  soul  are  bright, 

And  life  is  dear  ; 
For,  shining  like  the  sun's  own  light, 

Alice  is  here. 

Dark  days  around  the  Gloucester  moors 

Have  come  again. 
With  northeast  gales  and  slanting  sails, 

And  drifting  rain. 
Sad  are  the  echoes  in  my  soul 

As  breakers'  moan. 
And  like  the  rain  my  teardrops  fall  — 

Alice  is  gone. 

Dr  Matthews  was  a  prolific  writer,  and  besides  the  more  impor- 
tant works  already  mentioned,  was  the  author  of  a  large  number  of 
shorter  papers,  ethnologic,  medical,  and  general,  without  counting 

1  Printed  by  courtesy  of  Mr  Charles  F.  Lummis,  editor  of  Out  West^  Los  Angeles, 
Cal.,  in  which  magazine  (May,  1905)  the  verses,  together  with  the  accompanying  recent 
portrait  of  Dr  Matthews,  first  appeared. 


520  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

numerous  reviews  and  notes  in  the  journals  in  which  he  was  most 
interested.  He  left  a  large  body  of  undigested  manuscript  material, 
relating  chiefly  to  the  Navaho,  Modoc,  and  Paiute,  which  is  now 
in  possession  of  the  University  of  California. 

The  world  knows  and  will  increasingly  appreciate  the  scholar, 
but  only  those  who  were  near  to  him  can  understand  the  rare 
personality  of  the  man.  Physically,  mentally,  and  morally,  Wash- 
ington Matthews  was  of  the  highest  type  of  manhood.  Of  fine 
physique  and  soldierly  bearing,  with  a  strong  and  well-modulated 
voice,  carrying  perhaps  just  a  little  roll  to  make  it  all  the  more 
musical,  he  was  one  to  attract  the  attention  of  any  audience  and 
hold  it  to  the  close.  His  thought  was  always  well  ordered,  and  the 
expression  so  gracefully  chosen  that  each  word  fitted  to  its  purpose 
as  perfectly  as  the  pieces  of  an  Italian  mosaic.  By  a  faculty  of 
mingled  sympathy  and  command  he  won  the  confidence  of  the 
Indian  and  the  knowledge  of  his  secrets,  while  by  virtue  of  that 
spiritual  vision  which  was  his  Keltic  inheritance,  he  was  able  to 
look  into  the  soul  of  primitive  things  and  interpret  their  meaning  as 
few  others  have  done.  He  had  a  deep  sense  of  the  physician's 
mission  in  the  relief  of  human  suffering.  With  a  modesty  that 
shrank  from  publicity  and  despised  notoriety,  he  was  without  jeal- 
ousy and  rejoiced  always  in  the  successful  reputation  of  others. 
One  of  his  last  utterances  in  life  was  an  expression  of  pleasure  at  a 
merited  testimonial  to  a  fellow  worker.  Of  sensitive  honor  and 
high  courage,  he  was  at  ail  times  immediate  and  unsparing  in  de- 
nunciation of  anything  that  savored  of  cowardice  or  dishonesty. 
His  humor  was  keen,  without  the  sting  of  sarcasm,  and  so  spon- 
taneous that  even  his  serious  discourse  was  often  lightened  by  the 
play  of  fancy. 

And  now,  though  the  golden  bowl  be  broken,  not  yet  shall  the 
silver  cord  be  loosed  that  held  us  in  affection  to  one  of  whom  it 
can  be  said  in  full  measure  — 

**  His  life  was  gentle,  and  the  elements 
So  mix'd  in  him  that  Nature  might  stand  up 
And  say  to  all  the  world,  *  This  was  a  man  ! '  '* 

J.   M. 


IN  ME  MORI  A  M:    WASHING  TON  MA  TTHE  WS 


521 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  OF  WASHINGTON   MATTHEWS 


1.  Grammar   and  dictionary  of  the   lan- 

guage of  the  Hidatsa  (Minnetarees, 
Grosventres  of  the  Missouri).  With 
an  introductory  sketch  of  the  tribe. 
(Shea^ 5  Am.  Linguistics^  ser.  II,  no. 
I,  N.  Y.,  1873;  "V,  158  p.) 

2.  Hidatsa    (Minnetaree)     English   dic- 

tionary. {Shears  Am.  Linguistics, 
ser.  II,  no.  2,  p.   149-169,  N.  Y., 

1874.) 

3.  Ethnography  and  philology  of  the  Hi- 

datsa Indians.  (U.  S.  Geol.  and 
Geog.  Surv.f  Misc.  Pub.  no.  7, 
Wash.,  1877;  239  p.,  80.) 

4.  The    pagan    martyrs.      [Anonjrmous 

poem.]  ( Accompanies  The  Tenacity 
of  Indian  Customs,  by  Sylvester 
Baxter,  in  Am.  Architect,  no.  356, 
Bost.,  Oct.  21,  1882.) 

5.  Navajo   silversmiths.     (Second  Ann. 

Rep.  Bur.  Ethnol.y  p.  167-178, 
pi.  16-20,  Wash.,  1883.) 

6.  A    part    of   the    Navajo   mythology. 

{^Am.  Antiquarian,  vol.  v,  p.  207- 
224,  Chicago,  Apr.  1883.) 

7.  Navajo  weavers.     (  Third  Ann.  Rep. 

Bur.  Ethnol.f  p.  371-391,  pi.  24- 
38,  Wash.,  1884.) 

8.  A  night   with  the   Navajos.     By  Zay 

Elini.  {^Forest  and  Stream,  vol. 
XXIII,  p.  282-283,  N.  Y.,  Nov.  6, 
1884.) 

9.  Mythological     dry- painting     of     the 

Navajos.  [Abstract.]  ( Trans. 
Anthr.  Soc.  Wash.,  vol.  Ill,  p. 
139-140,  Wash.,  1885.) 

10.  The  cubature  of  the  skull.     [Abstract.] 

(Ibid.,  p.  1 71-172.) 

11.  Mythic  dry-paintings  of  the  Navajos. 

(Am.  Naturalist,  vol.  XIX,  p.  93 1 - 
939,  Phila.,  Oct.  1885.) 

12.  The  origin  of   the  Utcs.     A  Navajo 

myth.  (Am.  Antiquarian,  vo\.\\\, 
p.  271-274,  Chicago,  Sept.  1885.) 


13.  On  composite  photography  as  applied 

to  craniology,  by  J.  S.  Billings  ;  and 
on  measuring  the  cubic  capacity  ot 
skulls,  by  Washington  Matthews. 
Read  April  22,  1885.  (Mem,  Nat. 
Acad.  Sci.,  vol.  HI,  pt  2,  13th 
mem.,  p.  103-116,  19  pi.,  Wash., 
1886.) 

14.  On  a  new  craniophore  for  use  in  mak- 

ing composite  photographs  of  skulls. 
By  John  S.  Billings  and  Washing- 
ton Matthews.  Read  Nov.  12,  1885. 
(Ibid.,  vol.  Ill,  pt.  2,  14th  mem., 
p.  117-119,  4  pi..  Wash.,  1886.) 

15.  Apparatus  for  tracing  orthogonal  pro- 

jections of  the  skull  in  the  U.  S. 
Army  Medical  Museum.  ( J.  Anat, 
and  Physiol.,  vol.  XXI,  p.  43-45 » 
I  pi.,  Edinb.,  1886.) 

16.  An  apparatus  for  determining  the  angle 

of  torsion  of  the  humerus.     (Ibid., 

p.  536-538. ) 

17.  Navajo  names  for  plants.     (Am.  Nat- 

uralist, vol.  XX,  p.  767-777,  Phila., 
Sept.  1886.) 

18.  Some  deities  and  demons  of  the  Nav- 

ajos. (Ibid.,  p.  841-850,  Oct. 
1886.) 

19.  The  mountain  chant :  A  Navajo  cere- 

mony. (Fifth  Ann.  Rep.  Bur. 
Ethnol.,  p.  379-467,  pl-  10-18, 
Wash.,  1887.) 

20.  The  study  of  consumption  among  the 

Indians.  (N.  Y.  Med.  J.,  July  30, 
1887.) 

21.  The   prayer    of   a   Navajo    shaman. 

(Am.  Anthropol.,  vol.  I,  p.  I49- 
170,  Wash.,  Apr.  1888.) 

22.  A  further  contribution  to  the  study  of 

consumption  among  the  Indians. 
( Trans.  Am,  Climatol.  Ass*n, 
[Washington  meeting.  Sept  18-20, 
1888],  p.  136-155,  Phila.,  1888.) 


AM.  AMTH.y  N.  S.,  7-35 


522 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s,,  7,  1905 


23.  Two  Mandan  chiefe.      {Am,   Anti- 

^uariaUf  toI.  x,  p.  269-272,  2  pi., 
Chicago,  Sept.  1888.) 

24.  Navajo  gambling  songs.     (Am,  An- 

thropol,^  vol.  II,  p.  I-19,  Wash., 
Jan.  1889.) 

25.  Noqoilpi,    the    gambler :    a    Navajo 

myth.  (J,  Am,  Folk- Lore,  vol.  Ii, 
p.  89-94,  Bost.  and  N.  Y.,  Apr.- 
June,  1889.) 

26.  The  Inca  bone  and  kindred  formations 

among  the  ancient  Arizonians.  (Am, 
AnthropoL,  vol.  ii,  p.  337-345» 
Wash.,  Oct  1889.) 

27.  The  gentile  system  of  the  Navajo  In- 

dians. (J,  Am,  Folk- Lore,  vol. 
Ill,  p.  89-110,  Bost  and  N.  Y., 
Apr. -June,  1890.) 

28.  The  Catlin  collection  of  Indian  paint- 

ings. (Rfp'  U,  S,  Nat,  Mus,  i8go, 
p.  593-610,  pi.  130-140,  Wash., 
1892.) 

29.  Meaning    of    the    word    ''Arikara.'' 

(Am,  Anthropol,,  vol.  v,  p.  35-36, 
Wash.,  Jan.  1892.) 

30.  A  study  in  butts  and  tips.     (Ibid,,  p. 

345-350,  Oct  1892. ) 

31.  Human  bones  of  the  Hemenway  col- 

lection in  the  U.  S.  Army  Medical 
Museum.  (Mem,  Nat,  Acad,  Set'., 
vol.  VI,  7th  mem.,  p.  139-286,  57 
pi.,  Wash.,  1893.) 

32.  Navajo  dye  stuffs.     (Smithson.  Rep. 

i8gi,  p.  613-615,  Wash.,  1893.) 

33.  The  basket  drum.     (Am,  AnthropoL, 

vol.  VII,  p.  202-208,  Wash.,  Apr. 
1894.) 

34.  Some  illustrations  of  the   connection 

between  myth  and  ceremony. 
(Mem.  Int.  Cong.  AnthropoL,  p. 
246-251,  Chicago,  1894.) 

35.  Songs    of    sequence   of  the   Navajos. 

(J.  Am.  Folk- Lore,  vol.  vil,  p.  185- 
194,  Bost.  and  N.  Y.,  July-Sept. 
1894.) 


36.  Mt  Taylor.    (Am,  Antiquarian^  voL 

xvii,  p.  294,  Chicago,  1895. ) 

37.  A  vigil  of  the  gods — a  Navmjo  cere- 

mony.    (Am,  AnthropoL,  vol.   ix, 
p.  50-57,  Wash.,  Feb.  1896.) 

38.  Songs    of  the   Navajos.     (Land  of 

Sunshine,  vol.  v,  p.  197-201,  I  pi., 
Los  Angeles,  Oct.  1896.) 

39.  In  memoriam  :  John  Gregory  Boorke. 

(Science,  N.  Y.,  Dec.  4,  1896.) 

40.  Navaho  legends.     (Alem,  Am,  Folk- 

lore Soc,  vol.  y,  Bost  and  N.  Y., 
1897  ;  viii,  299  p.,  map,  7  pi.,  8^. ) 

41.  The  study  of  ceremony.      (J,   Am, 

Folk-Lore,  vol.  X,  p.  259-263, 
Bost  and  N.  Y.,  Oct-Dec.  1897.) 

42.  Ichthyophobia.     (Ibid.,  vol.   XI,    p. 

105-112,  Apr. -June,  1898.) 

43.  Use  of  rubber  bags  in  gauging  cranial 

capacity.     {Am,    Anthropol.,    vol. 

XI,  p.  171-176,  Wash.,  June  1S98.) 

44.  Serpent  worship  among  the  Navajos. 

(Land 0/ Sunshine,  vol.  IX,  p.  228- 
235,  Los  Angeles,  Oct.  1898.) 

45.  Some  sacred  objects  of  the  Navajo 

rites.  (Archives  Int,  Folk- Lore 
Ass^n,  World's  Col.  Expos.,  p.  227- 
247,  5  pi.,  Chicago,  1898.) 

46.  The  study  of  ethics  among  the  lower 

races,     (y.    Am.    Folk-Lore,    vol. 

XII,  p.  1-9,  Bost.  and  N.  Y.,  Jan.- 
Mar.  1899.) 

47.  Seeking    the     lost    Adam     [mine]. 

(Land 0/  .Sunshine,  vol.  x,  p.  113- 
125,  Los  Angeles,  Feb.  1899.) 

48.  The  cities  of  the  dead.     (Ibid,,   vol. 

XII,  p.  213-221,  Mar.  1890.) 

49.  A  two-faced  Navaho  blanket.      (Am, 

Anthropol.,  n.  s.,  vol.  ll,  p.  638- 
642,  I  pi.,  N.  v.,  Oct-Dec.  1900.) 

50.  Navaho  night  chant,     (y.  Am.  Folk- 

Lore,  vol.  XV,  p.  12-19,  2  pi., 
Bost.  and  N.  Y.,  Jan.-Mar.   1901.) 

51.  The  treatment  of  ailing  gods.      (Ibid,, 

p.  20-23.) 


m  MEMO RI AM:    WASHING  TON  MA  TTHE  WS 


523 


52.  A  Naraho  initiation.     (Land of  Sun- 

sAine,  toI.  XV,  353-356,  Los  An- 
geles, Nov.  1901.) 

53.  The  earth  lodge  in  art     {Am.  An- 

thropoL^  n.  s.,  vol.  IV,  p.  I-J2,  10 
pi.,  N.  Y.,  Jan. -Mar.  1902.) 

54.  Myths  of  gestation  and  parturition. 

(yjiV/.,  p.  737-742,  Oct-Dec. 
1902.) 

55.  The  night  chant,  a  Navaho  ceremony. 

(Mem.  Am.  Mus  Nat  Hist,  An- 
thropology, vol.  V ;  N.  Y.,  1902, 
xvi,  332  pp.  I  8pl0 


56.  Was  willow  bark  smoked  by  Indians  ? 

{Ibid,^  vol.  V,  p.  170,  Lancaster, 
Pa.,  Jan. -Mar.  1903. ) 

57.  The  Navaho  yellow  dye.     {Ibid,,  vol. 

VI,  p.  194,  Jan.-Mar.  1904. ) 

58.  The    contrast      [In    verse.]      {Out 

fVest,  vol.  XXII,  p.  304-305,  Los 
Angeles,  May,  1905.) 

59.  [Various  articles  on  Indian  manners 

and  customs  and  on  the  Navaho 
tribe,  in  the  Handbook  of  the  In- 
dians^ in  press  for  the  Bureau  of 
American  Ethnology.] 


SOME  MORE  ABOUT  VIRGINIA  NAMES 
By  WILLIAM  WALLACE  TOOKER 

In  regard  to  Mr  William  R.  Gerard's  last  article,  in  the  Amer- 
ican Anthropologist  for  April-June,  1905,  written  in  answer  to 
mine  in  the  issue  for  October-December,  1904,  I  here  reiterate  the 
statements  in  my  former  essay.  I  cannot,  owing  to  the  limited  space 
at  my  disposal  in  this  final  word,  heed  all  his  allegations  and  mis- 
takes, so  will  call  attention  to  only  a  few,  which  will  give  some 
indication  of  the  character  of  the  remainder. 

In  the  first  name,  Winauk,  discussed  by  Mr  Gerard,  he  makes 
eight  blunders:  (i)  In  rejecting  Trumbull's  derivation.  (2)  Both 
Smith  and  Archer  call  it  Point  Wynauk,  or  Weanocke,  as  a  rule 
rather  than  the  contrary.  (3)  Archer  never  called  it  **  Careless 
point."  (4)  Careless  point  was  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  river. 
(5)  He  does  not  quote  Archer  correctly,  who  says  (Smith,  p.  li) : 
"  We  crossed  over  the  water  to  a  sharpe  point,  which  is  a  parte  of 
Winauk  [i.  e.,  under  that  jurisdiction]  on  Salisbury  syde  (this  I 
call  careless  point).*'  **  Salisbury  side  "  was  the  south  side  of  James 
river,  while  Wynauk  was  on  the  north  or  **  Popham  side."  (6)  His 
remarks  as  to  dialect  and  the  quotation  from  Trumbull  in  the  foot- 
note are  erroneous,  as  if  the  Powhatan  and  Massachusett  did  not 
belong  to  the  same  language.  (7)  Weafi-ohke  can  be  used  without 
the  preposition  -ut  or  -//,  as  many  place-names  show.  (8)  No  In- 
dian would  have  called  the  place  Winach,  '  sassafras '  or  *  sweet 
wood,'  without  a  locative  of  some  sort,  as  Algonquian  nomencla- 
ture requires. 

Chickahominy,  —  Mr  Gerard  cannot  find  a  single  reference  to  a 
town  called  "  TshikihdnUny  ^  The  verb  could  not  be  used  in  this 
form  as  a  place  name,  because  it  does  not  imply  a  fixed  location. 
It  would  be  as  appropriate  to  apply  to  a  place  the  English  verb  **  to 

^  Manosquosick  was  the  first  town  on  the  river  visited  by  Smith,  but  not  named  on 
his  map,  for  Afeyascosic  of  the  map  is  not  the  same  town.  The  proof  of  this  is  very 
positive. 

524 


TOOKBR]  SOME  MORE  ABOUT  VIRGINIA  NAMES  525 

sweep.*'  My  notes,  made  more  than  ten  years  ago,  when  I  wrote 
the  results  of  my  study  of  "  Chickahominy,"  show  that  I  rejected 
this  verb,  along  with  others,  in  a  better  application,  viz.,  TscfUk- 
ham-aney-os,  '  they  sweep  the  path,'  which  I  thought  at  the  time 
might  allude  to  their  warlike  habits  when  on  a  trail,  for  the  words 
**  lustie  and  daring  people"  were  applied  to  the  Indians  of  the  river 
collectively,  not  to  the  inhabitants  of  any  one  town.* 

Werowacomaco.  —  Mr  Gerard  greatly  confuses  the  derivation  of 
this  name.  He  does  not  accept  Strachey's  *  and  Trumbull's  inter- 
pretation, '  a  king's  house,'  but  says  it  means  *  fertile  land,'  and  adds 
some  remarkable  information  which  is  inapplicable.  He  does  not 
believe  in  searching  the  Natick  for  the  meaning  of  Powhatan  names, 
but  goes  there  for  his  altered  Wenauohkomuk  (Cotton)  ;  Weenauok- 
komuk  (Eliot)  =  weenaU'Okke-muk^  *  where  the  land  is  fat,  rich, 
good,'  which  he  gives  as  the  cognate  of  Werowacomaco^  which  it  is 
not,  in  root,  prefix,  suffix,  or  anything  else.  The  termination  -muk 
is  the  third  person  singular  of  the  present  conditional  passive,  '  when 
or  where  a  thing  is,'  —  a  termination  of  common  use  by  Eliot,  who 
also  gives  tnatohkomuk  (=  tnat-ohke-muH),  '  where  the  land  is  lean, 
poor,'  thus  proving  the  etymology.*  Comaco  appears  in  several 
Powhatan  names,  and  is  the  cognate  of  the  Natick  komuk  =  Narr. 
commocky  '  a  house,'  '  a  place  enclosed.'  *  He  further  remarks : 
"  The  name  for  a  native  ryler  among  the  Virginians,  variously  written 
wirbans,  werowance^  weroance,  and  wyroaunce,  means  '  he  is  rich.' " 
This  also  is  contrary  to  fact,  as  likewise  is  the  statement  that  it  is 
from  the  same  stem  as  weenau,  as  it  really  comes  from  another  verb 
found  in  (Narr.)  wauontakick,  '  wise  men,'  *  counsellors,'  (Lenape) 
wewoatanky  '  the  learned '  or  *  the  wise,'  whence  (Lenape)  wewbansu 
(=  Powhatan  werawanse),  *  he  is  wise.'     Smith  remarks  (p.  377)  : 

1  Some  of  my  reasons  for  rejecting  the  verb  were  :  ( i )  Strachey  has  it  in  tsekehica^ 
*  to  sweep,'  which  led  me  to  believe  that  he  never  recognized  any  sounds  in  the  word 
/srJk^f  belonging  to  Chickahominy.  (2)  Tseke  is  a  root  formed  by  onomatopoeia  to  rep- 
resent the  action  of  a  harsh  instrument  in  rubbing  up  dust  or  dirt,  likewise  the  hair  of 
animals  and  the  scales  of  fish. 

<  The  name  was  probably  translated  for  him  by  Kemps,  the  Indian  who  gave  him 
most  of  his  Powhatan  names. 

*  Eliot's  constructive  forms  are  mostly  omitted  from  Trumbull's  Natick  Dictionary, 

<In  a  note  Mr  Gerard  says:  <'  JVinomin,  'the  grape,'  means  'prolific  fruit,'  " 
whereas  it  really  means  *  vine  berry.' 


526  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

''  But  this  word  Werowance,  which  we  call  and  construe  for  a  king, 
is  a  common  word,  whereby  they  call  commanders."  Thus  we 
have  Werowacomaco^  *  the  king's  house.*  * 

Pocoktquara^  Powcohicara.  —  Algonquian  names  of  places  and 
objects  are  all  descriptive  and  admit  of  no  ambiguity  or  inference ; 
yrt  Mr  Gerard's  translation  of  this  term  as  '  it  is  brayed,'  when 
modified  by  nothing,  is  decidedly  ambiguous,  as  it  does  not  inform 
us  what  was  '  brayed,'  hence  such  a  translation  might  refer  to  almost 
anything  except  "  milk  made  of  walnuts,"  to  which  the  name  was 
actually  applied.  My  interpretation  supplied  the  missing  link,  as  it 
furnished  an  etymology  descriptive  of  how  the  "  milk  "  was  "  made 
of  broken  shells,  skins,  or  bodies,"  leaving  nothing  for  supposition. 
The  second  element,  -hiquara  or  -kicora  =  (Natick)  -hogkSnie^ 
(Lenape)  -hackeney  or  -hocquina,  is  from  a  root  of  conmion  use 
meaning  *  to  cover,'  *  to  clothe,'  as  '  skin/  '  body,'  *  shell,'  *  husk/ 
'  scales '  (of  fish),  etc. ;  hence  the  "  milk  "  was  "  made  of  broken  or 
pounded  shells."* 

Moekanneu,  —  There  are  insurmountable  objections  to  Mr  Ger- 
ard's etymology  and  translation  ('  he  eats  bones ')  of  this  term. 
First,  Algonquian  substantives  in  the  plural  must  have  their  verbs  in 
the  plural.  Second,  the  word  for  '  bone '  in  all  Algonquian  dialects 
is  classed  as  an  inanimate  noun,  hence  it  could  not  be  used  with  the 
Algonquian  verb  '  to  eat '  something  animate,  which  in  the  Lenape 
has  the  form  tnohoan  *  to  eat';  mohoeu  *  he  eats';  mokowak  'they 
eat.'  In  the  same  dialect,  things  inanimate  have  their  plural  in 
-all,  (Natick)  -ash^  hence  *  they  eat  bones  '  would  be  rendered  inani- 
mately mitzowak  wochganally  which  Eliot  (Zcph.,  111,  3)  gives  us 
correctly,  and  in  the  inanimate  form  meechuog  wuskonashy  '  they 

1  Mr  Gerard  does  not  quote  Smith  correctly.  It  was  not  IVerowacomaco  that  was 
in  breadth  two  miles,  but  the  water  (Purtons  bay).  Smith  (p.  21)  writes:  "  IVera- 
ocomaco  is  vpon  salt  water  in  bredth  two  myles,  and  so  [the  river]  keepeth  his  course 
without  any  tarrying." 

*Heckewelder  (History ^  p.  194)  gives  us  the  best  account  of  the  process  :  "They 
pound  the  nuts  in  a  block  or  mortar,  pouring  a  little  warm  water  on  them,  and  gradually 
a  little  more  as  they  become  dry,  until  at  last,  there  is  sufficient  quantity  of  water,  so 
that  by  stirring  up  the  pounded  nuts  the  broken  shells  separate  from  the  liquor,  which 
from  the  pounded  kernels  assume  the  appearance  of  milk.  If  the  broken  shells  do  not 
freely  separate  by  swimming  on  the  top  or  sinking  to  the  bottom,  the  liquor  is  stnuDed 
through  a  clean  cloth,  before  it  is  put  into  the  kettle." 


TOOKER]  SOME  MORE  ABOUT  VIRGINIA  NAMES  $2/ 

g^aw  (eat)  bones.'*  So  Zeisberger  could  not  by  any  possibility 
have  written  moekanneu  for  mohawak  wochganall^  for  the  combina- 
tion would  have  been  grammatically  wrong.  The  radical  -kan^  in 
Cree  and  other  dialects,  when  coalesced  with  the  verb  indicates  some- 
thing made  of  bone.  My  etymology  describes  the  traits  of  a  *  wolf 
dog,  as  noted  by  many  visitors  to  Indian  villages,  viz  :  moekanneu  = 
(Natick)  maU'kondeu^  (Narr.)  mou-kanew,  *  he  cries  or  mourns  by 
night,*  from  mau  *  he  cries,*  *  he  mourns,*  nukondeu  or  nokaneWy  '  by 
night  *  or  *  in  the  night,*  as  in  composition  the  prefix  is  discarded.' 
The  correctness  of  this  etymology,  no  matter  how  **  extraordinary" 
it  may  seem  to  Mr  Gerard,  is  substantiated  by  the  adverbial  termi- 
nation -eu,  which  does  not  belong  to  the  verb,  for  that  is  already  in 
the  third  person  singular,  but  to  the  adverb  that  governs  the  verb. 
To  quote  Mr  Gerard  :  "  All  this  is  simple,  and  of  so  very  elemen- 
tary a  character  that  it  did  not  occur  to  me  to  furnish  an  analysis  of 
the  word  *  Moekanau  *  in  my  article.** 

Mr  Gerard's  article  indicates  his  lack  of  critical  analysis  of  the 
Algonquian  language,  and  he  is  so  hasty  in  his  conclusions  that  his 
etymologies  are  rendered  worthless.  This  is  conspicuously  shown 
by  his  statement :  "  In  Narragansett,  by  incorporating  the  word 
attbku  *  deer  *  we  have  modttbkweu^  *  he  eats  deer,*  and,  by  chang- 
ing the  intransitive  to  a  verbal  adjective  suffix  we  have  moattokwus, 
*  deer  eater,*  a  name  for  the  black  wolf,  called  also  deer  wolf." 
Now,  the  Narragansett  word  **  moattbqus^  a  black  wolf,**  is  simply 
from  mbivi  'black,*  and  nattbqus  *a  wolf;  nattbqussuog  'wolves,' 
i.  e.,  'they  seek  their  prey,*  which  describes  their  chief  character- 
istic. Therefore  there  is  nothing  whatever  in  the  name  indicating 
'  eating  *  or  *  a  deer,'  consequently  there  can  be  no  such  changes  in 
grammar  as  he  asserts. 

Wunnauanounuck.  —  He  says  further:  "What  may  be  stated 
as  absolutely  certain  is  that  wunnaii  does  not  mean  *  hollow  ves- 
sel,* and  that  anounau  does  not  mean  '  to  carry.*  *' 

Consulting  Roger  Williams*  Key,  we  find  :  "  Wunnauanounuck^ 
a  shallop.      Wunnananounuckquese,  a  skiff.     Obs  :  Although  them- 


>  Eliot  almost  always  writes  it  '  wuskonash  *  (3d  pers.  sing. ),  his  bones. 

•  See  Zeisberger* s  Grammar  for  *  one  night,*  etc. 

*  Compare  moaskug^  *  black  snake,*  in  same  chapter. 


528  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

selves  have  neither,  yet  they  give  them  such  names,  which  in  their 
language  signifieth  carrying  vessels/'  Can  this  translation  by 
Williams  be  ignored,  when  we  learn  that  wunnaug  is  a  '  shallow 
vessel/  like  a  *  tray '  or  •  dish/  and  that  -anounau  =  (Natick) 
konunau  *  he  carries  or  bears/  kounuk  '  when  it  carries  '  as  a  car- 
riage or  anything  that  bears  burdens  ? 

I  could  extend  my  observations  on   Mr  Gerard's  article,  but 
"  why  multiply  examples  ?  "  * 

Sag  Harbor, 

New  York. 


1  Mr  Gerard's  remarks  on  the  grammar  of  the  language  are  seemingly  his  own  ideas, 
and  are  not  based  on  any  authority  on  the  subject.  For  instance,  under  Attaangwassuwk 
be  is  contradicted  by  Eliot,  who  has  (Job,  xxxi,  2)  nantpaushadt  wosumoe  <  the  moon  is 
bright,  shining ' ;  nepauz  woksum  (Cotton)  *  the  sun  shines,'  and  so  we  can  hare  anog-Jkms 
wohsumuk  *  he  appears  shining.'  His  remarks  under  other  words  are  equally  erroneous. 
He  seemingly  does  not  hesitate  to  make  any  change  in  any  notation,  whether  it  be 
Williams',  Eliot's,  or  Zeisberger's.  Brinton's  remarks  will  apply  :  **  Zeisberger  showed 
the  Delaware  as  it  actually  was  spoken,  though  perhaps  not  as  scientific  linguists  think  it 
ought  to  have  been  spoken." 


BOOK   REVIEWS 

Neolithic  Dew-ponds  and  Cattle-ways.  By  Arthur  John  Hubbard, 
M.D.,  and  Georgk  Hubbard,  F.S.A.  With  illustrations,  Lon- 
don :  Longmans,  Green  &  Co.,  1905.     8°,  vii  +  69  pp. 

General  Pitt-Rivers,  Mr  E.  H.  Willett,  Canon  Greenwell,  and  others 
have  made  us  acquainted  with  the  numerous  earthworks  on  the  Sussex 
Downs.  The  most  notable  of  these  works  is  that  of  Cissbury,  some  three 
or  four  miles  north  of  Worthing.  The  Cissbury  Ring,  roughly  oval  in 
shape,  enclosing  an  area  of  60  acres,  was  thought  by  the  early  writers  to 
be  of  Roman  origin,  but  Col.  A.  H.  Lane  Fox  (General  Pitt-Rivers) 
proved  it  to  be  the  work  of  the  neolithic  inhabitants  of  Britain. 

The  Cissbury  embankments,  pierced  at  intervals  by  openings,  suggest 
the  earthworks  of  our  own  mound-builders.  The  inner  embankment  is 
the  larger,  and  rises  40  feet  above  the  ditch  that  separates  it  from  the 
outer. 

These  hill  fortifications  generally  cover  the  most  elevated  points  of 
the  Downs,  those  at  Chanctonbury,  a  short  distance  north  of  Cissbury, 
being  800  feet  above  sea-level.  The  magnitude  of  the  works  implies  a 
considerable  population  and  a  settlement  covering  a  time  period  of  no 
mean  length.  The  question,  therefore,  of  water  supply  for  such  high 
elevations  is  one  of  moment.  The  Messrs  Hubbard,  in  an  attractive 
little  volume,  have  attempted  to  solve  this  problem. 

Some  distance  below  the  Cissbury  Ring,  and  on  opposite  sides  of  the 

summit,  are  two  artificial  depressions  —  one  at  present  dry,  the  other  (on 

the  north)  filled  with  water.     The  authors  call  them   "dew -ponds.*' 

The  mode  of  construction  and  thermodynamics  of  a  dew-pond  are  best 

described  in  the  authors'  own  words : 

''There  is  still  in  this  country  at  least  one  wandering  gang  of  men 
(analogous  to  the  mediaeval  bands  of  bell-founders,  masons,  etc.)  who 
will  construct  for  the  modern  farmer  a  pond  which,  in  any  situation  in  a 
sufficiently  dry  soil,  will  always  contain  water,  more  in  the  heat  of  sum- 
mer than  during  the  winter  rains.  This  water  is  not  derived  from  springs 
or  rainfall,  and  is  speedily  lost  if  even  the  smallest  rivulet  is  allowed  to 
flow  into  the  pond.  The  gang  of  dew-pond  makers  commence  opera- 
tions by  hollowing  out  the  earth  for  a  space  far  in  excess  of  the  apparent 
requirements  of  the  proposed  pond.  They  then  quickly  cover  the  whole 
of  the  hollow  with  a  coating  of  dry  straw.  The  straw  in  its  turn  is  cov- 
ered by  a  layer  of  well -chosen,  finely-puddled  clay,  and  the  upper  surface 

529 


530  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

of  the  clay  is  then  closely  strewn  with  stones.  Care  has  to  be  taken  that 
the  margin  of  the  straw  is  effectively  protected  by  clay.  The  pond  will 
gradually  become  filled  with  water,  the  more  rapidly  the  larger  it  is,  even 
though  no  rain  may  fall. 

''  If  such  a  structure  is  situated  on  the  summit  of  a  Down,  during  the 
warmth  of  a  summer  day  the  earth  will  have  stored  a  considerable  amount 
of  heat,  while  the  pond,  protected  from  this  heat  by  the  non -conductivity 
of  the  straw,  is  at  the  same  time  chilled  by  the  process  of  evaporation 
from  the  puddled  clay.  The  consequence  is  that  during  the  night  the 
moisture  of  the  comparatively  warm  air  is  condensed  on  the  surface  of  the 
cold  clay.  As  the  condensation  during  the  night  is  in  excess  of  the 
evaporation  during  the  day,  the  pond  becomes,  night  by  night,  gradually 
filled. 

*  *  The  dew-pond  will  cease  to  attract  the  dew  if  the  layer  of  straw 
should  get  wet,  as  it  then  becomes  of  the  same  temperature  as  the  sur- 
rounding earth,  and  ceases  to  act  as  a  non-conductor  of  heat.  This 
practically  always  occurs  if  a  spring  is  allowed  to  flow  into  the  pond,  or 
if  the  layer  of  clay  is  pierced.*' 

The  dried  up  dew-pond  already  mentioned  bears  a  definite  relation 
to  the  neolithic  settlement  at  Cissbury.  The  origin  of  both,  therefore, 
may  be  presumed  to  date  from  the  same  epoch,  a  presumption  confirmed 
by  the  fact  that  the  dew-pond  in  question  **  appears  to  be  thoroughly 
fortified  by  a  surrounding  ditch  and  earthen  wall,  precisely  similar  to, 
though  on  a  lesser  scale  than  the  great  prehistoric  earthworks  on  the  top 
of  the  Downs.*' 

Two  roadways,  roughly  parallel  and  in  places  deeply  cut,  lead  from 
the  eastern  entrance  down  to  the  dew-pond  on  the  north.  These  are 
called  "cattle -ways,"  and  form  another  link  in  the  chain  of  evidence 
tending  to  prove  that  the  earthworks  and  dew-ponds  are  contemporary. 
Another  bit  of  evidence  is  that  remains  of  a  **  dwelling  "  similar  to  those 
within  the  Ring  are  sometimes  found  adjacent  to  a  dew-pond.  These 
so-called  dwelling  sites  marked  by  gentle  depressions  in  the  surface  of  the 
ground  are,  however,  primarily  the  sites  of  ancient  pits  sunk  in  neolithic 
times  to  depths  of  from  15  to  30  feet  through  the  chalk  in  search  of  seams 
of  flint  suitable  for  the  manufacture  of  implements.  As  soon  as  flint  of 
the  desired  quality  was  reached,  side  chambers  and  horizontal  connecting 
galleries  were  opened  for  the  further  exploitation  of  the  flint  nodules. 
Similar  works  are  found  at  Grime's  Graves  near  Brandon,  Suffolk,  and  at 
Spiennes,  Belgium.  Pits,  chambers,  and  galleries  have  long  since  been 
filled  by  debris  of  one  sort  and  another,  and  possibly  may  have  been 
utilized  from  time  to  time  as  habitations. 

There  is  a  dew-pond  still  full  of  water  near  Chanctonbury  Ring.  It 
is  surrounded  by  protecting  earthworks  within  which  are  the  remains  of  a 
so-called  **  dwelling  "or  **  watch-house."  The  latter  is  evidently  the 
site  of  a  shaft  sunk  for  the  purpose  of  exploiting  flint  from  the  Chalk. 


BOOK  REVIEWS  53 1 

Part  II  of  the  book  treats  of  Maumbury  Rings  and  Maiden  Castle, 
both  near  Dorchester.  The  Maumbury  earthwork  "appears  to  us  to 
differ  entirely  in  purpose  from  the  ordinary  neolithic  hill  settlements  with 
which  it  is  certainly  contemporary. '  *  Its  orientation  was  carefully  deter- 
mined and  found  to  coincide  accurately  with  that  of  Stonehenge.  It  is 
in  all  probability  a  prototype  of  the  great  stone  structure  erected  on  Salis- 
bury Plain  and  suggests  the  practice  of  sun  worship  in  the  neolithic  period. 

There  are  no  dew-ponds  at  Maumbury  Rings,  but  there  is  one  within 
the  ramparts  at  Maiden  Castle.  The  area  enclosed  by  the  Rings  at 
Maiden  Castle  is  from  40  to  50  acres  in  extent.  The  enclosure  is  pro- 
tected by  a  series  of  great  embankments,  even  now  50  to  60  feet  high ; 
and  the  ''maze  of  stupendous  earthworks  by  which  the  entrance  is 
guarded  baffles  description. ' ' 

Part  III  deals  with  "cattle- tracks,"  a  term  employed  to  indicate 
the  routes  selected  by  the  herds  in  contradistinction  to  the  term  "cattle- 
ways,"  used  in  the  sense  of  roads  built  by  man  for  the  use  of  his  cattle. 

Two  of  the  most  important  systems  of  cattle-tracks  are  at  Ogbury 
Camp  near  Stonehenge  and  at  Figsbury  Ring  between  Salisbury  and 
Stockbridge.  At  Ogbury  Camp  the  cattle-tracks  are  connected  with 
dew-ponds,  as  was  the  case  at  Cissbury  and  Chanctonbury. 

Much  emphasis  is  placed  on  the  value  of  domestic  herds  to  these 
neolithic  settlers  and  the  necessity  of  protecting  their  flocks  as  well  as 
themselves  from  wild  beasts  and  other  enemies.  The  illustrations  are  all 
half-tones  from  excellent  photographs  and  serve  their  purpose  admirably. 
To  have  supplemented  them  with  a  few  ground-plans  and  sections  would 
have  been  of  material  assistance  to  the  general  reader  in  obtaining  a 
proper  conception  of  the  extent  and  meaning  of  the  neolithic  hill  settle- 
ments and  their  relations  to  the  so-called  dew-ponds  and  cattle-ways. 

George  Grant  MacCurdy. 

Antropometria  Militare.     Ridolfo  Livi.     Two  volumes,  4®,  with  atlas. 
Rome:  Preso  il  Giomale  Medico  del  Regio  E  Sercito,  1896,  1905. 

The  first  volume  of  the  valuable  work  by  Dr  Livi  on  military  anthro- 
pometry in  Italy,  which  appeared  with  an  atlas  in  1896,  has  just  been  fol- 
lowed with  a  second  volume,  devoted  more  particularly  to  data  of  a  demo- 
graphic and  biologic  character.  Volume  I  deals  with  the  stature,  color 
of  the  eyes  and  hair,  cephalic  index,  and  the  facial  characters  of  Italian 
conscripts,  chiefly  from  a  racial  point  of  view ;  while  the  second  volume 
is  devoted  to  the  consideration  of  stature,  weight,  thoracic  circumference, 
etc.,  more  from  the  standpoint  of  physiology  and  hygiene. 


532  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

The  data  on  which  the  entire  work  is  constructed  were  obtained  by  mili- 
tary medical  examiners  and  are  based  on  the  examination  of  299,355  re- 
cruits throughout  Italy,  of  the  classes  from  1859  to  1863.  In  the  author's 
investigations  it  was  found,  and  is  clearly  shown,  that  physically  the  pop- 
ulation of  Italy  is  by  no  means  homogeneous,  but  that  it  differs  radically 
in  the  northern  and  southern  parts  of  the  peninsula,  while  the  central 
provinces  exhibit  stages  more  or  less  transitional.  The  northern,  and 
particularly  the  northeastern  portions  of  the  country  —  Venetia,  for  exam- 
ple —  have  a  population  of  relatively  higher  stature,  with  higher  cephalic 
index,  and  a  relatively  greater  proportion  of  blonds  than  the  southern 
provinces,  Sicily  and  Sardinia,  whose  people  are  short  and  dark,  with  a 
tendency  to  dolichocephaly. 

The  highest  average  statures  are  :  Venetia,  166.6  ;  Tuscany,  165.6  ; 
Liguria,  165.5;  Lombardy,  165.3  cm.;  the  lowest:  Sardinia,  161.9; 
Basilicata,  162.6;  Calabria,  161.1;  Sicily,  163.5  cm.  The  cephalic 
index,  which  in  the  northern  provinces  ranges  from  82.3  to  85.9,  is  in 
Puglia  79.8;  in  Sicily,  79.6;  in  Calabria,  78.4;  and  in  Sardinia  only 
77.5.  The  percentage  of  blond-haired  individuals  ranges  from  12.6  in 
Venetia  to  7.2  in  Emilia,  in  the  north ;  but  is  only  5  percent  in  Sicily, 
3.8  in  Calabria,  and  1.7  in  Sardinia.  On  the  whole  the  people  of  north- 
em  Italy  are  shown  by  the  data  to  be  allied  to  the  Alpine  and  other 
northern  races  of  whites  (very  probably  including,  in  Venetia  at  least, 
the  Slavs),  while  the  southern  Italians,  the  Sicilians,  and  the  Sardinians 
belong  chiefly  to  the  Iberic  or  Mediterranean  type. 

The  size  of  the  chest,  determined  by  the  thoracic  circumference,  was 
found  to  differ  widely ;  but  in  50  percent  of  the  subjects  examined  it 
ranged  between  84  and  88  cm.  The  largest  average  chest  is  found  in  the 
northern,  the  smallest  in  the  southern  provinces,  particularly  in  Calabria 
and  Sardinia.  Large  stature  in  general  was  found  to  be  associated  with 
more  ample  thorax ;  but  the  increase  in  the  size  of  the  chest  is  inferior  to 
the  increase  in  stature.  It  should  here  be  mentioned  that  the  relation 
between  the  thoracic  circumference,  r,  and  the  stature,  ^[(r  x  ioo)/j], 
is  incorrectly  termed  by  the  author  *  *  thoracic  index.  *  *  Like  *  *  cephalic 
index,'*  "nasal  index,"  and  ''orbital  index,'*  the  term  ''thoracic 
index  "  should  be  restricted  to  an  expression  of  the  relations  of  measure- 
ments (preferably  the  bilateral  and  antero-posterior  diameters)  of  the 
thorax,  the  part  of  the  body  indicated  by  the  name ;  and  in  fact  the  term 
has  already  been  employed  for  such  relations.  The  index  of  Dr  Livi  is 
the  chest-height  index. 

To  return  to  the  results  obtained  by  the  author,  it  is  found  that  the 


BOOK  REVIEWS  533 

weight  of  more  than  40  percent  of  the  subjects  ranged  from  47  to  62  kg. 
(126  to  137  lbs.),  and  here  again  the  average  was  higher  in  the  northern 
than  in  the  southern  provinces.  The  average  weight  increased  with 
stature,  but  the  relative  proportion  (grams  per  cm.,  or,  as  the  author 
expresses  it,  loc^az/j)  diminishes  slowly  with  increase  in  height. 
Excepting  those  whose  stature  falls  below  167  cm.,  the  weight  of  the 
American  soldier,  according  to  Gould's  statistics,  exceeds  that  of  the 
Italian. 

Among  the  various  professions  and  trades,  students  and  butchers 
attain  the  greatest  average  stature  and  weight,  while  barbers  and  tailors 
are  the  smallest.  For  many  interesting  details  of  a  similar  character  the 
work  itself  must  be  consulted. 

During  the  period  of  military  service  there  is  an  increase  in  stature 
and  weight,  particularly  in  those  who  through  malnutrition  had  been 
retarded  in  these  directions ;  consequently  from  a  physical  point  of  view 
military  service  is  beneficial. 

A  chapter  of  the  second  volume  is  devoted  to  the  consideration  of  the 
diseases  of  soldiers  and  their  distribution,  geographically  and  profes- 
sionally. 

Dr  Livi*s  work  exhibits  a  vast  amount  of  labor  brought  to  a  success- 
ful issue.  The  volumes  are  illumined  with  numerous  diagrams,  a  valuable 
aid  to  the  text.  Both  Dr  Livi  and  the  military  authorities  who  have 
supported  and  encouraged  him  may  be  assured  of  a  full  and  general 
appreciation  of  this  service  in  the  cause  of  anthropology. 

A.  Hrdlicka. 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 
Conducted  by  Dr  Alexander  F.  Chamberlain 

[Note. — Authors,  especially  those  whose  articles  appear  in  journals  and  other 
serials  not  entirely  devoted  to  anthropology,  will  greatly  aid  this  department  of  the 
American  Anthropologist  by  sending  direct  to  Dr  A.  F.  Chamberlain,  Clark  University, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts,  U.  S.  A.,  reprints  or  copies  of  such  studies  as  they  may  desire 
to  have  noticed  in  these  pages.  —  Editor.] 


GENERAL 

Alsberg  (M.)  Krankheit  und  Descen- 
denz.  (Corr.-Bl.  d.  Deutschen  Ges.  f. 
Anthrop.,  Miinchen,  1904,  xxxv,  ii8> 
122.)  Discusses  the  question  whether 
there  does  not  exist  a  coincidence  or  a 
relationship  between  the  phylogenetic 
stage  of  evolution  in  an  organ  and  a 
more  or  less  pronounced  disposition  in 
the  same  to  morbid  changes,  between 
the  changes  run  through  in  the  course  of 
phylogenetic  evolution  and  certain  so- 
called  *' pathological  phenomena,"  or 
''diseases."  Dr  A.  considers  the  ribs, 
the  vermiform  appendix,  certain  glands 
and  gland-like  organs,  anomalies  of  re- 
fraction in  the  human  eye,  rumination, 
etc.,  from  this  point  of  view. 

Andree  ( H. )  Kurzer  Rtickblick  auf  Rich- 
ard Andrees  literarische  Tatigkeit.  ( Glo- 
bus, Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  148.) 
Lists,  with  brief  notes,  chief  publica- 
tions, 1 860- 1 904,  which  covered  such 
topics  as  the  Jews,  metals  among  primi- 
tive people,  anthropophagy,  ethnographic 
parallels,  deluge  myths,  folk-lore,  votive 
offerings,  etc. 

Anthony  ( R. )  Rapport  de  la  commission 
nomm^e  pour  1' attribution  du  prix  Broca, 
1904.  (Bull.  Soc.  d'Anthr.  de  Paris, 
1904,  \*  s.,  V,  589-590. )  Prize  divided 
between  MM.  Launois  et  Roy's  Etudes 
biohgiques  sur  Us  giants  (Paris,  1 904) 
and  M.  Demonet's  MS.  Recherches  sur 
la  capaciti  vitale, 

Barchielli  (A.)  Variazioni  del  margine 
superiore  dello  stemo  umano  e  loro  sig- 
ni^cato.  (Mon.  Zool.  Ital.,  1904, 
XV,  54-61,  2  pi.)  Gives  results  of 
examination  of  162  stemums  of  adults 
and  a  few  embryos.     The  tubercula  epis- 


tgrnaliOf  of  which  three  cases  occurred, 
are  regarded  by  B.  as  rudiments  of  the 
epistemum  of  the  lower  vertebrates. 

Beddoe  (J.)  A  method  of  estimating 
skull-capacity  from  peripheral  measures. 
(J.  Anthr.  Inst.,  Lond.,  1904,  xxxiv, 
266-283.)  Discusses  briefly  various 
methods  and  adds  **new  proofs"  with 
slight  modification  of  author's  process. 
Tables  of  measurements  of  Naqada,  Ro- 
mano-Briton, Vedda,  Negro,  Sumatran, 
Aastralism  skulls.  Pages  277-283  reply 
to  article  by  Prof.  [Pearson  in  Biometrika 
in  criticism  of  B*s  scheme. 

Bermbach  (/>r)  Ueber  Pfeilgifte  und 
vergiftete  rfeile.  (Corr,-Bl.  d.  Deuts- 
chen Ges.  f.  Anthrop.,  Miinchen,  1904, 
xxxv,  51-52.)  Notes  on  arrow  poisons 
and  poisoned  arrows  in  Asia  and  Indo- 
nesia (Ainu,  Malays,  Malaccans,  etc.), 
S.  America  ( Orinoco- Amazonian  region, 
Chocos,  Cayapas,  Goajiros,  etc.),  Africa 
(East  Africa,  pygmies,  Congo  region, 
Bushmen,  etc.).  Snake  poison  is  a 
wide-spread  constituent.  Vegetable  poi- 
sons are  obtained  from  aconitum,  strych- 
nos,  antiaris,  solanum.  American  poi- 
sons are  curari^  toad-poison,  poison  from 
corpses,  etc.  In  parts  of  Africa  spider- 
poison  is  employed. 

Boas  (F. )  Some  traits  of  primitive  cul- 
ture. (J.  Amer.  Folk-Lore,  Boston, 
1904,  XVII,  243-254.)  Discusses  "the 
general  lack  of  diflerentiation  of  mental 
activities."  In  primitive  life  religion 
and  science,  music,  poetry  and  dance, 
myth  and  history,  fashion  and  ethics, 
appear  to  us  inextricably  interwoven, 
yet,  when  we  consider  that  all  vestiges  of 
similar  forms  of  thought  have  not  yet 
disappeared  from  our  civilization,  we  can 


534 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


see  bow  these  pbeDomena  majr  fall  into 
■n  aiAtxXf  arrajr.  Dr  B.  Dotei  Ihe  uio- 
ciMlon  belwecD  tntdilionll  etiquetle  and 
ethical  feeling  (je.  g.,  senie  of  propriety, 
religious  iDtolennce,  food  ivenioDS, 
ityles  of  dresi)  in  mcdem  life  and  com- 
pares them  with  aiulogoiu  phenomena 
in  primitive  life  (taboos,  education, 
ritual,  decorative  act,  etc.).  The  resis- 
tance to  change  is  largely  due  to  emo- 
tional sources,  and  in  primitive  cul- 
ture emotional  assodations  are  the 
prevailing  type.  In  civilization  reason- 
ing is  able  to  modify  act  iti  ties  having  no 
emotional  value,  but  "  we  cannot  re- 
model, without  serious  emotional  resis- 
tance, any  of  the  fundamental  lines  of 
thought  and  action  which  ate  determined 
by  our  early  education,  and  which  form 
the  subconscious  basis  of  all  our  activi- 
ties." The  lou  of  conservatism  accom- 
panying the  substitution,  in  the  prc^ess 
of  primitive  cullnre  to  dviliialion,  of 
intellectual  for  emotional  associations, 
does  not  affect  seriously  Ihe  mass  of  sub- 
consdoas  activities  and  modes  of  thought 
learned  more  by  imitation  than  by  educa- 

The  history  of  anthropology.  ( Sci- 
ence, N.  Y.,  1904,  N.  s.,  XX.  513-514- ) 
Address  at  St  Loms,  Sept.,  1904.  Dis- 
cusses "the  general  conditions  of  sden- 
liBc  thought  thai  have  given  rise  to 
anthropology," — the  anthropological  sci- 
ence of  to-day  is  distinct  in  scope  and 
method  from  the  speculative  anthropol- 
ogy of  the  iSth  and  of  the  early  part  of 
the  19th  century.  About  Ihe  middle  of 
the  last  century  the  beginnings  of  anthro- 
pology were  laid  from  three  distinct  points 
of  view  —  historical,  classifi calory,  geo- 
graphical {Danrin,  Spencer,  Tylor,  Bas- 
tian,  Gerland,  —  Rltmmiargtdanktn, 
"Culturbrille,"  etc.).  The  linguistic 
aspect  was  discussed  by  Stcinthsl,  the 
somatic  was  set  going  by  the  metric 
method  of  Quelelel.  Folk -psychology 
felt  the  influence  of  Sleinlhal  and  subse- 

fuently  of  Wundt,  Baldwin,  Tarde, 
toll.  Somatology  owes  much  to  Hui- 
ley.  Wiederahcim,  Gallon,  and  Pearson, 
—  the  last  two  have  developed  the 
methods  of  the  quantitative  study  of  the 
varieties  of  man.  The  research  work  of 
the  field  anthropologist  is  of  some  im- 
portance, and  detailed  archeological  and 
ethnological  studies  have  reacted  upon 
the  theories  of  anthropology.  Anlhro- 
polc^  is  now  becoming  of  great  value  in 


the  general  system  of  our  culture  and 
education,  particularly  in  enabling  us  to 
see  our  origins  and  critidxe  objectiTely 
our  own  work. 

Browar  (C.  DeW.)  Collection  and  pre- 
servation of  antiquities  for  the  benefit  of 
the  public.  ( Rec.  of  Fast,  Wash.,  1905, 
IV.  57-60. )  Cites  examples  of  valuable 
relics  hidden  away  in  attics,  bureaus, 
elc,  and  inaccesuble  to  students.  Argue* 
for  the  better  preservation  and  exhibition 
of  these,  preferably  in  museums. 

Baacluil(G.]  CullurundGehim.  (CorT.- 
Bl.  d,  Deutschen  Gei.  f.  Anlhrop..  1904, 
XXXV,  137-133. )  ^ttt  American  Anikre- 
pohgist,  1905.  N.  s.,  vii,  135.  This 
paper,  in  eitended  form,  has  appeared  a* 
CuUur  uHd  Gekim  (Wiesbaden.  I905) 
in  the  series  of  mon<^raphs  entitled 
Grmtfragm  det  Ntrvat-   und  Sttltn- 

CattaUhac  (fi.)  Les anneam-disqnes prt- 
hisloriques.  ( L'Anthiopologie,  Paris, 
1904.  XV,  359-368,  5  figs. )  Risum*  and 
critique  of  an  artide  by  Ch.  Buttin  OQ 
La  anntttux-diiquei  prikisforigtus  tt  let 
Uhakrai  de  F  Iitdt  in  the  Rnme  Savoi- 
litnne  for  1903.  B.  compares  the  pre- 
historic disc-rin{FS  found  at  Combes,  near 
Chambiry.  in  1883,  with  the  steel  disc- 
rings now  used  as  weapons  only  by  Ihe 
Akalis,  a  Sikh  tribe  of  the  Punjab.  Car- 
tailhoc  thinks  the  comparison  suggestive, 
but  asks  more  evidence. 

dumbeiUln  (A.  F.)  Proverbs  in  the 
making:  Some  scientific common-placei. 
11.  (J.  Amer.  Folk -Lore.  Boston,  1904, 
Kvti,  368-178.}  Nos.  306-450  of  trite 
statements  of  scientific  facts  and  fancies 
by  writers  in  various  modem  languages. 

COBvntini  (F.)  X-es  recherches  anthro- 
pologiques  modernes  el  la  sodologie 
ginilique.  (Bull.  Soc.  d'Antbr.  de 
Paris,  19041  V*  s.,  V,  591-600.)  Dis- 
cusses origin  of  human  race  {author 
thinks  "  polygeny  is  not  only  a  logical 
consequence  of  the  Darwinian  theory,  but 
is  also  confirmed  by  the  results  of  pre- 
historic investigations"),  migrations 
(rare  in  primitive  times),  paleolithic 
(fire  created  Ihe  hearth  and  gave  birth 
ligion)  and  neolithic 

il    life    developed ; 

imad  becomes  seden- 
tary) man,  age  of  metals  {augmentation 
of  human  strength  and  improvement  of 
all  forms  of  work,  analogy  between  pre- 


538 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


— »—  Zur  Anthropologie  des  Schulter- 
blattes.  (Ibid.,  139-144,  i  fg.)  Dis- 
cusses the  general  structure  of  the 
shoulder-blade,  its  form,  etc.,  among  the 
anthropoids.  In  man  alone  the  fore-limbs 
have  been  freed  from  the  duty  of  serving 
as  organs  of  movement  and  support,  — 
this,  a  last  cause  of  the  upright  walk  is 
the  mechanical  ground  for  the  specially 
human  structure  of  the  shoulder-blade. 

Sank*  (K.  E.)  Das  Gauss' sche  Fehler- 
gesetz  und  seine  Verallgemeinerungen 
durch  Fechner  und  Pearson  in  ihrer 
Tragweite  fiir  die  Anthropologie.  ( Ibid. , 
99-104.)  Discusses  the  bearing  of 
Gauss's  law  of  error,  and  its  generaliza- 
tions by  Fechner  and  Pearson,  for  an- 
thropology. Fixed  organic  variation- 
series  of  simple  measurements  must 
always  follow  Fechner' s  law  of  distribu- 
tion (close  to  Gauss's).  Otherwise  the 
material  is  not  homogeneous  or  the  varia- 
tion has  been  seriously  interfered  with. 

Schmidt  (E. )  Die  Grdsse  der  Zwerge 
und  der  sogennanten  Zwergvdlker.  ( Glo- 
bus, Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  121- 
125.)  Discusses  the  stature  of  dwarfs 
and  dwarf-like  races  ( African  pygmies, 
Bushmen,  Minkopi,  Philippine  Negri- 
tos, etc. ).  The  Malaccan  Semang  and 
Sakai,  the  Celebesan  Toala,  the  Ved- 
das  of  Ceylon  are  hardly  pygmies.  Ref- 
erence to  the  average  stature,  etc.,  of  the 
people  to  which  civilized  explorers  be- 
long, has  vitiated  their  ideas  of  pygmism 
sometimes.  Pygmies  are  also  to  be  dis- 
tinguished from  small-statured  people. 

Spitzka  ( A. )  The  development  of  man's 
brain.  American  mind  destined  to  dom- 
inate human  powers  of  the  earth.  Illus- 
trated by  studies  of  the  brains  of  intel- 
lectual persons,  of  individuals  of  various 
races  and  of  criminals.  (Connecticut 
Magazine,  1905,  3I9-35S»  6  pi.)  Dis- 
cusses cerebral  localization,  brains  of 
intellectual  persons,  cerebro-cerebellar 
ratio,  callosum,  race  brains,  criminal 
brains.  The  brains  of  sane  and  intellect- 
ually eminent  persons  give  evidences  of 
morphologic  superiority  in  surface  config- 
uration, complexity  and  area  of  certain 
cortical  territories,  etc.  Sane  criminals 
have  no  '*  criminal  cerebral  character- 
istics." The  formation  of  an  ^^ American 
Family  of  the  Aryan  Race"  now  going 
on  will  lead  to  bigger  and  better  brains. 

▼on  den  Steinen  ( K. )  Die  Bedeutung 
der  Textilmuster  Hir  den  geometrischen 


Stil  der  Naturvdlker.  (Corr.-Bl.  d. 
Deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anthrop.,  Mfinchen, 
1904,  XXXV,  126-127.)  Points  out  how 
the  forms  of  nature  and  those  of  technique 
stimulate  the  artist  formation-power  and 
thus  *< suggested  motives"  have  a  large 
rdle  in  primitive  decorative  art.  Zigzags, 
triangles  and  lozenges  with  central  cross 
as  a  model,  due  to  the  diagonal  disposi- 
tion, are  the  starting  point  for  numerous 
examples  of  '* symbolism"  among  the 
American  Indians.  For  the  North  Amer- 
ican Indian  the  triangle  is  a  tent,  for  the 
Polynesian  a  shark's  tooth,  for  the  Xingu 
Indian  the  woman's  cover.  Explanations 
are  secondary  interpretations. 

Toldt  (C. )  Ueber  einige  Structur-  und 
Formverh&ltnisse  des  Menschlichen  Un- 
terkiefers.  (Ibid.,  94-99*)  Discusses 
and  criticises  WalkhofTs  Der  Cnier- 
kiefer  der  Anthropomorphen  und  des 
Alenschen  (Wiesbaden,  1902)  andWeid- 
enreich's  Die  Bildung  des  Kinnes  in  the 
Anatomischer  Anzeiger  for  1 904,  and 
gives  results  of  radiographic  investiga- 
tions. The  conclusion  reached  is  that 
the  human  chin  is  a  ccrrelate  of  the  whole 
structure  of  the  head  —  a  peculiar  fea- 
ture of  man  as  compared  with  all  other 
animals,  and  not  a  regressional  or  degen- 
erative phenomenon,  as  would  be  the  case 
if  it  had  to  be  referred  to  a  reduction  of 
the  teeth. 

Uhlenhuth  (Hr^  Einneuer  biologischer 
Beweis  fiir  die  Blutsverwandtschaft  zwi- 
schen  Menschen  und  Affengeschlecht. 
(Ibid.,  114-118. )  Discusses  the  use  of 
serum -reactions  as  a  means  of  determin- 
ing affinity  and  r6sum6s  the  chief  facts 
(which  he  has  confirmed)  of  NuttalPs 
Blood  Immunity  and  Blood  Relationship 
(Cambridge,  1904).  With  the  orang- 
utang,  gorilla,  and  chimpanzee  the  reac- 
tion was  almost  as  strong  as  with  man  ; 
with  the  Cynocephali  and  Cercopitheci 
the  result  was  weaker ;  with  the  New- 
World  monkeys  still  weaker  ;  no  com- 
plete reaction  was  obtained  from  the  Ceb- 
ida:  or  from  Ilapalido'y  nor  from  lemurs. 
The  degree  of  the  blood  relationships  of 
man  and  the  apes  is  thus  indicated. 

Volkov  (Th.)  Les  variations  squelet- 
liques  du  pied.  (Bull.  Soc.  d'  Anthr. 
de  Paris,  1904,  v«  s.,  v,  720-725.) 
Bibliography,  89  titles,  to  monograph. 

Walkhoff  (O. )  Das  Femur  des  Menschen 
und    der    Anthropomorphen    in   seiner 


CHAMBEkUIS] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


ruDctianellm    GesUlt.      (Corr.-Bl.    d. 
Ueulschen  Ges.   f.  Anlhrop.,  MUnchen, 
1904,   XXXV,  87-88.)     Gives  result!  of 
experimenU    concemiiig    the    functional 
fonn  of  Ibr  femur  ia  mnn  and  the  anthro- 
poidi,  made  with  X-reya,  etc.     Details 
are  given  in  the  author's  Das  femur  dtt 
Mmickm  und  der  Anihrofiomarfhtn  in 
seintr/uHiliontllfn  C/ita/t  (Wjabtdea, 
1904.] 
WitkowiU  IDr]     Die  BSder  und  Bade- 
leben   in   ftUherer  ZciL     (Ibid.,   190S,    | 
XXXVI,  23. )      Rtsumt  of  addiess  before 
Wiesbaden      Anthropol<^cal      Sodety. 
The  u&c  of  batba  for  purposes  of  cleanli-    1 
ness  is  comparatively  new.     Water  wat   I 
"  feared  "  by  many  primitive  men.      Hy- 
dro-mythology  is  quite   eilensive.      In   ' 
India  baths  first  make  their  appearance    | 
among    the    civilized    races.       Theo    in 
Babylon  and    Assyria.      With   the  Jews    I 
springs  were   the  center  of  socdal  life.    - 
In  Japan  baths  had  a  high  development,    ' 
— -not  so  in  China.      The  ancient  Greeks 
had  sea  and  river  baths  (later  also  house- 
baths).    Rome  had  gorgeous  baths,  cura- 
tive and  otherwise,  which  the  barbarians 
and  Christians  adopted.    Sun-liaths  were 
introduced  from  Greece  into  Rome. 

EUROPE 

AnoatcUM  ( A. )  L'archtol^e  en  Rut- 
sie.  (L'AnthropoIogie, Paris,  1904,  xv, 
35'-358-)  Risumid  by  M.  Dtchelette 
from  the  German  translation  in  the 
Cealralblatt  fuT  Antkropologie  for  I903. 
See  American  Anlkropolegist,  1903,  N. 
S.,  V,  560. 

Arda-Onnis  (E.)  Resles  humains  pr<- 
historiques  de  la  grotte  de  San  B«1o- 
lomeo,  prts  Cagliari.  Contribution  & 
I'snthropotogie  de  la  Sardaigne.  ( L'An- 
thropoIogie, Paris,  1904,  XV,  313-331, 
II  iigs.)  Discusses  the  prehistoric  human 
remains  (3  skulls  and  a  number  of  bones 
of  the  face  and  cranium  ;  with  measure- 
ments, etc.)  discovered  in  18S0  by  F. 
Orsoni.  The  cave  of  San  Bartolomeo 
contains  three  successive  deposits  indi- 
cating the  presence  of  man  of  the  stone, 
bronie,  and  iron  ages.  The  cranial 
remains  resemble  strikingly  modem 
Mediterranean  forms  ( Sardinian). 

Bamdoin  (M. )  Dibris  d'une  m&choire 
d'enfant  trouv<  sons  un  migalithe  de 
Vendue.  (Bull.  Soc.  d'Anthr.  de  Far^s, 
1904,  V*  s.,  V,  S70. )  Note  on  the  frag- 
ment of  the  jaw  of  a  child  (j-6  yrs.) 


Luxation   prthistorique    de    I'allaa 

surPuti*.  (Ibid.,  SS3-S54-)  Describe* 
luxation  indicated  in  a  ^eleton  Irom  a 
megalith  in  Vendie,  the  first  on  record. 
The  luxation  was  caused  by  a  failing 
block  of  stone,  death  beinginstantineoua. 

tt   Bonnamira   (L. )     Les    hachei 

poliesdani  I'histoirejusqu'au  xix*sitcle. 
(Ibid.,  496-548,  3  figs.)  Interesting, 
well -documented  article  treating  of  the 
history  of  polished  stone  hatchets  ;  Syn- 
onymy ("thunder-stones,"  etc),  folk- 
lore (amulets,  folk -medicine,  l^ends), 
Greek  and  Latin  periods.  Renaissance 
(the  text  of  Aldovandus  De  Ciraunia  is 
given  in  detail,  also  Gemer  and  Mer- 
CBlus),  other  writers  briefly,  from  Shake- 
speare down  to  close  of  1 8th  century. 
The  connection  of  polished  stone  hatchet* 
with  thnoder,  in  folk-lore,  is  very  wide- 
da  BUaiO  (A. )     Steatopigia  in  prostitute, 

(A.  di  psich.,  neuropatol.,  etc.,  Torino, 
1905,  XXVI,  157-364,  I  pi..  I  fg.)  De- 
scribes two  cases  (Apulian  aged  33, 
Neapolitan,  19)  of  steatopygy  (excessive 
development  noticed  in  early  life,  marked 
at  puberty)  in  free- will  prostitulef. 
Author  suggests  that  prehistoric  man  may 
have  been  steatopygous. 
Bolk  (L.)  lUpartilion  du  type  blond  et 
du  type  bran  dans  les  Pays-Bas.  ( Bull, 
Soc.  d'Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v*  s.,  v, 
578-5S6,  3  fgs.,  map.)  Based  on  per- 
sonal examinations  of  5,000  Dutch 
school  children  and  data  from  3,400 
qutttinn  naires  representing  some  477, 300 
school  children,  Jews  not  counted.  Dr 
B.  concludes  that  the  population  at 
Holland  is  no  less  mixed  than  that  of 
Betgiom  or  England.  The  principal  ele- 
ments {Ifoma  Europtais  and  Heme 
Alfinui]  occur  in  the  proportion  of  I  :  3, 
the  Alpine  variety  occupying  the  south 
especially.  The  primitive  Zceland  type 
(Alpine)  has  crossed  with  the  Frisian 
(European)  to  produce  a  pseudo-alpine 
variety  with  brown  eyes,  long  face,  and 
broad  skull.  The  bruoets  are  most 
numerous  in  Zeeland,  Limhut^,  North 
Brabant ;  blonds  in  Friesland,  Drenthe, 
and  the  northern  part  of  N.  Holland. 
"  Hises  toward  Belgium, 


540 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


Dentichen  G«s.  f.  Anthrop.,  MUnchen, 

1904,  XXXV,  89-91.)  Describes  the 
scaphocephalic  skull  of  a  weaver  of  Stet- 
tin ( it  was  the  subject  of  a  dissertation  by 
Schade  in  1858),  who  died  m  1855  at 
the  age  of  38.  The  cause  of  the  pre- 
mature synostosis  of  the  sagittal  suture 
was  probably  some  affection  of  the  periost 
or  the  bones,  occurring  in  fetal  life. 

Boxich  (G.  I.)  Contributo  alio  studio 
morfologico-chnico  e  antropolico  dei 
deliquenti.  (A.  d.  Soc.  Rom.  di 
Anthrop.,  1905,  xi,  229-299.)  Thb 
detailed  monograph,  of  which  pages 
236-267  give  anthropometric  data  in 
tabular  form  (stature,  weight,  head, 
Umbs,  hand,  etc.)  and  pages  268-288 
list  of  degenerative  and  other  related 
characters,  with  list  of  frequency,  is  based 
on  Dr  B's  personal  measurements  and 
observation  of  100  male  criminals  from 
various  parts  of  Italy  (29  from  Sicily). 
Of  degenerative  characters,  etc.,  89  are 
cited,  occurring  in  all  391  times,  —  the 
most  frequent  are  low  forehead  17 ; 
**  handle  ears  "  14 ;  tattooing  16  ;  se- 
vere childhood  dismes  21.  Two  types 
of  constitutions  occur,  —  one  with  ample 
chest  and  large  heart,  the  other  with 
narrow  chest  and  small  heart.  Of  these 
the  first  corresponds  to  the  violent  class 
of  criminals,  the  second  to  the  ordinary 
delinquent  committing  petty  crimes,  theft, 
etc.  Deficiency  in  proportion  of  finger- 
reach  and  certain  other  somatic  pecu- 
larities  also  characterize  the  first  t3rpe. 
Interference  with  the  typical  evolution  of 
the  organism,  disturbance  of  its  normal 
equilibrium,  modifications  of  the  sense  of 
self,  these  morbose  phenomena,  lowering 
the  physiological  and  mental  functioning 
of  the  human  being,  are  the  matrices  of 
crime. 

BUnker  (J.  R.)  Windische  Fluren  und 
Bauemh&user  aus  dem  Gailtale  in  K&m- 
ten.     (Mitt.   d.   Anthr.    Ges.   in  Wien, 

1905,  XXXV,  1-37,  39  fgs.)  Describes 
the  five  *  *  fields  "  belonging  to  Riegers- 
dorf,  east  of  Arnoldstein,  as  typically 
Wendish  (Krainberg  in  particular). 
These  villages  seem  to  have  had  differ- 
ent origins.  Also  the  characteristic 
Wendish  house  of  the  Gail  valley  (in 
Pdkau,  Feistritz,  Arnoldstein,  NO'sch, 
Agoritschach ) .  The  Wendish  house 
was  originally  a  wooden  house.  Exter- 
nally it  resembles  very  much  the  Ger- 
man house,  but  the  internal  arrangement 


is  quite  different     The  primitive  type 
consisted  of  *'  stable  *'  and  vestibole. 

Bnrne  ( Charlotte  S. )  Northambrian  so- 
cial customs.  (Folk- Lore,  Load.,  1904, 
XV,  341-343.)  Notes  from  puish  of 
Ilderton  connected  with  the  Roddam 
family,  —  agricultural  laborers,  wedding- 
custom,  rhymed  charter  of  Athelstan. 

BuachJUi  (G.)  Bomholm.  (Corr.-BL  d. 
Deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anthrop.,  Mfinchen, 
1904,  XXXV,  149-152. )  Discusses  name 
(<< bland  fortification*'),  ardieological 
history  (settled  from  Uie  peninsula  of 
Schonen  in  the  later  stone  age)  through 
stone,  bronze,  iron  ages  and  early  Chris- 
tian period  (of  37  rune-stones  discovered 
some  5  or  6  belong  to  heathen  times), 
present  population,  physical  characters, 
language  ("low  Danish*' mixed  with 
*  *  Swedish  *  * ) ,  religion,  geology,  etc  Up 
to  1886,  Vedel,  whose  BomhoMs  Old- 
tidminder  (KouenhtLgen,  1886),  with  a 
supplement  (1897 )  telb  the  story  of  the 
island  400  ^.C.-I050  A.D.,  recorded 
36,000  graves  of  the  prehistoric  period. 

CapeUi  CL.  M.)  Per  la  distribaaone 
regionale  della  genialitii  in  Italia.  (  A. 
di  psich.,  Torino,  1904,  xxv,  252- 
268. )  Treats  of  the  local  distribution  of 
men  of  genius  (enumerated  from  De 
Gubematis'  biographical  dictionary  in 
the  various  Italian  provinces.  C.  finds 
that  they  bear  a  certain  relation  (Lom- 
brosan)  to  the  figures  for  the  prevalence 
of  high  stature,  large  skull  capacity, 
mental  diseases,  epilepsy,  alcoholism, 
suicide,  illegitimate  birth,  idiocy,  den- 
sity of  population,  illiteracy,  wealth,  etc. 

Cook  (A.  B. )  The  European  sky-god. 
(Folk-Lore,  Lond.,  1904,  XV,  264-315, 
370-426. )  First  two  sections  of  a  mono- 
graph discussing  the  nature  of  the  sky- 
god  among  the  ancient  Greeks,  Italian.^ 
Celts,  Germans,  Slavs,  etc.,  — deals  with 
the  nature,  functions,  folk-conception, 
name,  affinities,  etc.,  of  Zeus  (the  bril- 
liant ;  also  the  thunderer,  rain-bringer, 
etc.),  sky-god,  sun-god,  rain-god,  water- 
god,  earth-god,  —  Zeus  had  his  sacred 
tree,  the  king  was  a  human  2^us,  named 
after  him,  acting  as  his  vice-regent,  etc. 
The  divine  king  was  doomed  to  die  as 
his  physical  strength  waned.  A  stronger 
man  succeeded,  or  he  abdicated  after  a 
fixed  term.  The  victors  at  great  festivals 
and  games  posed  as  Zeus.  Apollo  was 
a  mere  solar  aspect  of  Zeus  and  more 
anciently  connected  with   the  oak,  not 


chambeklain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


541 


the  laurel,  —  there  were  other  surro- 
gates besides  the  latter.  C's  general 
view  is  that  his  conclusion  in  regard  to 
Zeus  and  Jupiter  hold  good  perhaps  for 
the  whole  Indo-European  stock.  Some 
of  his  analogies  und  etymologies  are 
quite  venturesome. 

D'Aeth  (F.  G. )  Saint  James's  day  and 
grottoes.  (Ibid.,  1905,  xvi,  180-182.) 
Brief  account  of  children's  festival  at 
Leytonstone,  Essex,  on  St  James's  day, 
when  "grottoes"  are  constructed  of 
clinkers  and  rubbish  on  the  edge  of  the 
pavement,  —  oyster-shells  are  used,  if 
possible.  A  lighted  candle  is  put  in  the 
grotto  ( purchased  with  the  first  halfpenny 
given  by  passers-by).  This  custom  is 
"  fairly  general  in  the  London  district." 
The  grottoes  are  probably  imitations  of 
shrines  of  St  James  of  Compostella,  so 
the  custom  is  ca.  500  years  old. 

Deecke  (W. )  Farbendifferenzen  pr&- 
historiscnen  Steinwerkzeuge.  (Corr.- 
Bl.  d.  Deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anthrop., 
MQnchen,  1904,  xxxv,  86-87.)  Dis- 
cusses briefly  the  color  of  flint  tools. 
Those  of  RUgen  are  black,  a  color  rare 
at  Stralsund.  (Experiment  shows  that 
fire  has  no  rOle  in  making  or  in  coloring 
flints. )  The  patina  may  be  a  test  of 
**  eoliths."  The  spurious  flint  can  also 
be  detected. 

Deniker  (J.)  Les  six  races  composant  la 
population  actuelle  de  1' Europe.  (J. 
Anthr.  Inst,  Lond.,  1904,  xxxiv,  181- 
206,  6  pi. )  Dr  D.  argues  for  the  exist- 
ence in  modem  Europe  of  six  races  :  I. 
Nordic,  tall  dolichocephalic,  blond.  2. 
Eastern,  sub-brachycephalic,  small-stat- 
ured,  blond.  3.  Ibero- Insular,  dolicho- 
cephalic, small -statured,  brunet.  4. 
Western,  brachycephalic,  small-statured, 
brunet.  5.  Atlanto- Mediterranean  sub- 
dolichocephalic,  tall,  brunet.  6.  Adri- 
atic, brachycephalic,  tall,  brunet.  To 
these  are  added,  as  secondary  races,  for 
No.  I  a  sub- Nordic,  for  No.  2  a  Vistu- 
lian,  for  No.  5  a  Northwest,  and  for  No. 
6  a  sub- Adriatic.  The  localization  of 
these  races  is  indicated.  D.  considers 
that  his  scheme  and  Ripley's  do  not  dif- 
fer so  much  as  might  be  supposed. 

Dennia  (L.  J.)  Fin  Mac  Coul's  pebble. 
(Folk-Lore,  Lond.,  1905,  xvi,  186,  i 
pi.)  Note  on  a  "pebble,"  which  this 
famous  giant  once  threw  at  his  wife. 
Fin  is  now  Carlingford  mountain,  County 
Down. 


Dittmayer  ( — )  Bericht  liber  aufgefund- 
enen  Trichtergruben.  (Corr.-Bl.  d. 
Deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anthrop.,  1904, 
xxxv,  42. )  Brief  account  of  the  ex- 
amination in  September,  1903,  of  the 
funnel-pits  near  Oberwaldbehrungen, 
said  to  be  the  sites  of  dwellings,  a  view 
confirmed  by  the  discovery  of  bones, 
ashes,  clay,  sooty  stones,  etc. 

Elbert  ( J. )  Ueber  die  Altersbestimmung 
menschlicher  Reste  aus  der  Ebene  des 
westf&lischen  Beckens.  (Ibid.,  106- 
114.)  Discusses  the  age  of  finds  of 
human  remains,  etc,  in  the  plain  of  the 
Westphalian  basin  fLippe,  Ems  and 
tributaries),  —  geological  and  archeolog- 
ical  evidences  are  considered  (the  meas- 
urements of  a  dolichocephalic  skull  are 
given  on  p.  113).  The  skeletons  are 
of  neolithic  t3rpe,  but  they  have  been 
to  ascribed  the  old  diluvial  stratum.  The 
evidence  is  not  sufficient  to  settle  the 
question  of  geological  age. 

B]rre  (Margaret)  Folk-lore  of  the  Wye 
valley.  (Folk- Lore,  Lond.,  1905,  xvi, 
162-179,  1  pl* )  Treats  of  the  stones  of 
Trelleck  (** Harold' sstones"),  the«*vir- 
tuous  wells,"  charms  and  folk-medicine, 
witches  and  their  ways,  white  magic, 
witch  wives,  fairies,  etc.  Offa's  dyke 
still  divides  England  from  Wales.  In 
this  region  are  the  Forest  of  Dean  people, 
the  Welsh,  and  on  the  hill-tops  *'  the 
ancient  Silurians  [?]." 

da  Costa  Ferreira  (A.)  La  capacity  du 
cr&ne  et  la  composition  ethnique  proba- 
ble du  peuple  portugais.  (Bull.  Soc. 
d' Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v«s.,  v,  473- 
491. )  Risumis  investigations  of  Ferraz 
de  Macedo,  Fonseca  Cardoso,  Severino 
Marques,  etc.  According  to  the  author 
there  exist  in  Portugal  two  dolichoce- 
phalic (small  stature,  small  head ;  tall, 
large  head)  and  three  mesaticephalic 
( small,  large  head  ;  taller,  small  head  ; 
taller  than  first,  shorter  than  second, 
small  head)  types  of  man.  The  short, 
small -headed  dolichocephal  of  Traz-os- 
Montes  is  related  to  the  race  of  Cro-Mag- 
non ;  the  mesaticephaly  of  Minho  is  due 
to  the  Celts  ;  in  Alemtejo  a  Semitic  (?) 
and  in  Algarve  a  Berber- Moor  element 
has  persisted.  Da  C.  F.  looks  on  skull 
capacity  as  a  good  ethnic  criterion. 

Fncht  (K. )  Ueber  ein  prehistorisches 
Almenhaus.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
Lxxxvii,  85-90,  151-156,  8  fgs.)  Prof. 
F.  argues  that  "the  wooden  prototjrpe 


542 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


of  the  Greek  temple  was  an  Almenhaus^ 
the  bouse  of  a  rich  cattle-breeder  of  the 
middle  European  plateau,  whom  a  long 
winter  compelled  to  lay  by  great  stores 
of  hay,  and  so  erected  over  the  stable  a 
large  hay-loft  which  kept  it  warm/'  He 
describes  in  detail  a  house,  at  the  same 
time  the  primitive  form  of  the  modem 
Czik  wood-houses,  the  ancient  Greek 
temple  and  several  modem  Alpine  types 
of  dwellings. 

FahM  ( F. )  Hiigelgrftber  in  der  Nahe  von 
Gandersheim,  Braunschweig.  (Ibid., 
125-128,  6  fgs.)  Brief  account  of  a 
group  of  mound-graves  ( first  investigated 
by  Thiele  in  1865-1874,  then  by  Dr  F. 
in  1904)  and  contents.  New  for  this 
region  are  the  packing  of  incinerated 
bones  and  votive  gifts  in  a  covering  of 
wood  ;  also  the  presence  as  grave-gifts 
of  wheel-needles  (4- eyed  Middle  German 
type). 

Oriffitht  (G.  B.)  Measurements  of  130 
criminals.  (Biometrika,  Cambr.,  1904, 
III,  60-^2.)  Give  tables  of  details  of 
cranial  and  head  measurements  of  100 
"ordinary"  and  30  lunatic  criminals, 
made  at  Parkhurst  Prison.  The  cephalic 
index  of  the  former  ranges  from  71.2  to 
90.2  ;  of  the  latter  from  73.1  to  87.1. 

Goldberg  (G.  A.)  Ueberdie  Kriimmung 
des  Oberschenkels.  (Int.  Mntsschr.  f. 
Anat.  u.  Phys.,  Berlin,  1904,  xxi,  292- 
298.)  Gives  results  of  examination  of 
90  femora  (right  and  left)  from  old 
Norwegian  graves.  The  infantile  and 
fetal  type  is  rectilinear.  The  physio- 
logical curvation  develops  when  the 
child  begins  to  walk  and  is  well-marked 
in  the  second  and  third  year  ;  and  in  the 
period  from  8-12  years  the  curve  reaches 
practically  the  adult  state. 

Onntlier  (  R.  T. )  The  cimaruta,  its  struc- 
ture and  development.  (Folk  Lore, 
Lond.,  1905,  XVI,  132-161,  8  pis.,  i 
fg. )  Treats  in  detail  of  the  cimaruta^ 
or  sprig  of  rue,  '*a  compound  charm  of 
some  complexity,"  dedicated  to  the  ser- 
vice of  infants.  In  a  good  cimaruta  are 
these  emblems :  Rue,  hand,  moon,  key, 
flower,  horn  (or  fish),  cock  (or  eagle) 
and,  sometimes,  in  later  and  more  elab- 
orate specimens  also  serpent,  cornucopia, 
cherub.  The  modem  cimaruta  is  of 
silver.  G.  thinks  that  the  cimaruta  is  not 
a  descendant  of  any  of  the  Roman  phallic 
amulets,  but  had  an  essentially  separate 
origin  (materially  in  a   real    sprig    of 


rue ) .   The  change  from  an  actual  materia 
medica  to  a  symbolic  representatioD  of  it 
is  easy  enough.     Associatioo  with  trees 
accounts  for    some  of  the    added   ele- 
ments.    From  an  earlier  broader  signi- 
ficance it  shrank  to  be  the  special  protec- 
tion of  women  in  childbirth.     AJthougli 
not  mentioned  by  writers  before  1888  the 
cimaruta  is  not   a  mere  sporions  roha 
Americana^   but     an     ancirat    amulet, 
closely    resembling    old    Etruscan    and 
Assyrian  objects  of  similar  nature. 

Hedinger  (Dr)  Die  Ligurer.  (Corr.- 
Bl.  d.  Deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anthrop., 
MQnchen,  1904,  xxxv,  53-54.)  Au- 
thor argues  that  the  primitive  ligurians 
were  a  dolichocephalic  people  closely  re- 
sembling the  Cro-Magnon  race  and  re* 
lated  to  the  Berbers,  Kabyles,  and 
Guanches.  They  were  pushed  south- 
ward and  westward  by  the  descent  of  the 
Aryans  from  the  north. 

Aeg&ische  Cultur.     (Ibid.,  57-59.) 


Risum^s  briefly  recent  discoveries.  The 
Kamaras  culture  is  to  be  ascribed  to  the 
Carians  (neither  Aryan  nor  Semitic), 
whose  civilization  produced  in  Crete  was 
taken  over  by  the  Greeks. 

Hodgson  (M.  L.)  Some  notes  on  the 
Huculs.  (Folk-Lore,  Lond.,  1905, 
XVI,  48-55,  6  pi. )  Notes  on  habitat, 
religion,  marriage-customs,  easter-eggs, 
omaments,  implements,  etc,  of  the 
Hutzuls  of  Galicia,  compiled  firom  the 
data  in  Prof  Szuchievicz's  Huculsz- 
czyzna.  The  Hutzuls  have  preserved 
their  ancient  customs,  original  dress,  etc., 
to  a  large  extent.  Their  religion  has 
many  elements  of  paganism. 

von  Jaden  (H.)  Ueber  den  islandischen 
Bauemhof.  (Stzgb.  d.  Anthr.  Ges.  in 
Wien,  1904,  102-103,  4  fgs.)  Brief 
account  of  the  typical  farm  buildings  of 
the  Iceland  peasants,  who  are  more  cattle- 
keepers  (rather shepherds)  than  farmers, 
as  they  cannot  cultivate  grain. 

Jaeger  (J. )  Die  Chiemseelandschaft. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii, 
181 -186.)  Geological  and  archeolog- 
ical- historical  account  of  the  region  about 
Chiem,  the  largest  of  the  lakes  of  the 
Bavarian  Alps.  Evidence  of  man's 
presence  here  in  the  oldest  stone  period 
is  not  yet  forthcoming,  nor  does  clear 
proof  of  lake-dwellings  exist.  The  later 
stone  age  is  sparsely  represented.  Stations 
of  the  bronze  and  Hallstatt  period,  — 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


543 


the  iron-using  people  were  perhaps  Ger- 
manic,—  occur,  remains  of  the  Roman 
domination,  etc. 

Jennings  (Hermione  L.  F. )  A  Cam- 
bridgeshire witch.  (Folk-Lore,  Lond., 
1905,  XVI,  187-190.)  Describes  Mrs  S- 
(1810-1880)  and  relates  stories  concern- 
ing her. 

Jones  (B.  J.)  Stories  from  Leitrim  and 
Cavan.  (Ibid.,  1904,  XV,  336-341.) 
English  texts  of  6  brief  stories  (dead 
letter,  dog  spirit,  dead  priest,  man  who 
sold  his  daughter  to  the  devil,  fairy's 
question,  crock  of  gold)  told  in  1894  by 
a  domestic  servant. 

Karo  ( G. )  Neue  Funde  von  Knosos.  ( A. 
f.  Religsw.,  Lpzg.,  1904,  viii,  144- 
148. )  R^sum^s  the  discoveries  of  re- 
ligious importance  in  the  recent  expedi- 
tions of  Evans  1902-03. 

Ausgrabungen  im  dstlichen  Kreta. 

(Ibid.,  148-149. )  Treats  briefly  of  the 
terra  cotta  statuettes  and  animal  figures 
found  at  Palaikastro. 

Kauffmann  (Fr. )  Altgermanische  Re- 
ligion. (A.  f.  Religsw.,  Lpzg.,  1904, 
VIII,  1 14-128. )  Critical  r^sum^s  of  re- 
cent literature  on  ancient  Teutonic  re- 
ligion, —  works  of  Meyer,  Frommhold, 
Groldmann,  MUller,  Schoning,  Staerk, 
Hensler,  Ebermann,  etc. 

Kemke  (H.)  Die  Bedeutung  der  Ostsee 
fiir  die  Vorgeschichte  unserer  Provinz. 
(Corr.-Bl.  d.  Deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anthrop., 
Miinchen,  1 904,  xxxv,  44-46. )  Points 
out  the  significance  of  the  Baltic  for  the 
prehistory  of  the  province  of  East  Prussia. 
Commerce  with  the  north  and  west  was 
considerable  in  pre-Roman  times,  and 
before  the  Christian  era  relations  with 
the  west  had  been  established. 

Kretische  Forschungen.  (Globus,  Bm- 
schwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  190.)  R^sum^s 
articles  of  Harriet  A.  Boyd  in  Transac- 
tions of  the  Department  of  Archeology, 
University  of  Pennsylvania,  and  A.  J. 
Evans  in  Nature  for  January  26,  1 905. 

Leroy  ( R. )  Deux  cas  de  thorax  en  en- 
tonnoir  dans  la  m^me  famille.  —  Autop- 
sie.  ( Bull.  Soc.  d' Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904, 
V*  S.,  V,  571-578. )  Describes  two  cases 
f  father  and  son )  of  the  pathological 
(rare)  malformation  known  as  funnel 
chest,  Trichterbrust^  with  references  to 
the  literature  of  the  subject.  The  autopsy 


of  the  son  is  given.     The  cause  of  this 
anomaly  is  still  in  dispute. 

Lett  ( H.  W. )  Winning  the  chum,  Ulster. 
(Folk-Lore,  Lond.,  1905,  xvi,  185- 
186. )  Brief  account  of  a  custom,  **  pre- 
valent all  through  the  counties  of  Down 
and  Antrim  50  years  ago.''  The  chum 
is  a  sort  of  lost  sheaf  or  com -maiden. 

Lindner  ( A. )  Die  HUgelgrftber  im  Kot- 
lover  Walde  bei  Lippen,  Bezirk  Bud- 
weis.  (Mitt.  d.  Anthr.  Ges.  in  Wien, 
1905,  xxxv,  38-44,  2  pi.,  4  fgs.) 
Enumerates  and  describes  contents  f  clay 
ums  and  other  pottery,  etc. )  of  5  hill- 
graves,  of  which  the  Hrst  four  belong  to 
to  the  close  of  the  Hallstatt  period.  The 
excavation  took  place  1902-1904. 

Maclagan  (R.  C.)  Additions  to  "The 
Games  of  Argyleshire."  (Folk-Lore, 
Lond.,  1905,  XVI,  77-97,  192-221.) 
First  two  sections  of  data  supplementary 
to  author's  The  Games  of  Argyleshire 
(London,  1 900),  —  rubrics:  general  ac- 
tivity, articulation,  auguries,  ball  games, 
balancing,  bat  games,  blind-fold  games, 
archery,  choosing  partners,  chucks,  cir- 
cling, cock-fighting,  concealed  object  re- 
covering, counting  out  rhyme,  dancing, 
finger-names,  funeral  games,  gambling, 
nine-holes,  hand -clapping,  hen  and 
chickens. 

Macquait  (£. )  Les  mouvements  de  la 
population  et  de  la  richesse  privie  de 
France  au  cours  du  dernier  quart  de 
sidcle.  (Bull.  Soc.  d' Anthr.  de  Paris, 
1904,  v«s.,  V,  587-588.)  M.  concludes 
that,  'Mn  spite  of  the  most  ingenious  and 
seductive  theories,  there  really  exists  no 
relation  between  the  demography  of  a 
nation  and  the  economic  condition  of  its 
inhabitants." 

Mehlit  (C. )  Eine  neue  neolithische  Sta- 
tion in  der  Vorderpfalz.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg,  1905,  LXXXVII,  337-338,  4 
fgs.)  Describes  the  excavation  of  a 
house-pit  at  Venningen  in  February,  1905. 
The  upper  layer  yielded  pottery  frag- 
ments of  the  Roman  period,  the  lower  a 
pottery  fragment  of  the  neolithic  age,  a 
piece  of  elk-horn,  etc.  The  neolithic 
pottery  fragment  has  three  finger-nail  im- 
pressions, which  Kdhl  considers  a  mark 
of  the  lake-dwelling  type. 

Wilser's     "  Germanen."      (Ibid., 

254-255.)  R^sum^s  Dr  Ludwig  Wil- 
ser's Die  Germanen  (Leipzig,  1904). 
Wilser  finds  the  home  of  Homo  Primi- 


544 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


genius  in  Central  Europe, —  the  North 
European  race  gave  birth  to  the  Aryan 
tribes. 

Montelias  (O.)  Die  friihesten  Zeiten 
Roms.  (Corr.-Bl.  d.  Deutschen  Ges.  f. 
Anthrop.,  MUnchen,  1904,  xxxv,  122.) 
Brief  account  of  the  oldest  archeological 
remains  found  on  the  site  of  Rome.  The 
graves  discovered  in  the  Forum  last  year 
must  all  be  older  than  750  B.  C.  The 
earlier  iron  age  (the  last  centuries  of  the 
second  and  the  first  centuries  of  the  first 
millennium  B.  C. )  are  numerously  re- 
presented,— here  belong  some  Esquiline 
and  Forum  remains  of  the  close  of  the 
bronze  age  abound.  Some  objects  from 
the  copper  age,  more  than  2000  B.  C, 
also  occur.  The  site  of  the  city  must 
have  been  inhabited  at  a  very  early 
period. 

Mach  ( R. )  Das  Zeitverhftltniss  sprachge- 
schichtlicher  und  urgeschichtlicher  £r- 
scheinungen.  (Ibid.,  135-138.)  Dis- 
cusses consontal  sound-shifting  ( known  to 
primitive  Teutonic )  and  the  regression  of 
the  accent,  a  somewhat  later  phenome- 
non, which  probably  was  known  in  the 
iron  age  (La  T^ne  period).  Examples 
and  illustrative  words  are  given.  The 
nature  of  the  accent  and  the  presence  of 
sound-shifting  enable  us  to  determine  the 
age  of  certain  words,  and  consequently, 
the  antiquity  of  the  use  of  iron,  etc. 

Myret  (J.  L. )  The  evil  eye  and  the 
camera.  (Man,  Lond.,  1905,  12,  I 
fg. )  Reproduces,  with  comments,  photo- 
graph of  group  of  Italian  boys  at  Segri, 
one  of  whom  makes  the  two-finger  charm 
against  the  "  evil  eye  "  of  the  camera. 

NicefOTO  (A.)  Contribution  ^  P^tude  de 
Pindice  c^phalique  en  Suisse.  (Bull. 
Soc.  d'Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v  s.,  v, 
493-495. )  Gives  results  of  measure- 
ments of  587  school-children  (aged  10-14 
years)  of  Lausanne,  Switzerland,  all 
bom  in  Vaud  and  nearly  all  of  Vaudois 
parents.  The  cephalic  index  ranges  74 
to  93,  — the  most  frequent  ( 12.94  per- 
cent) is  80,  followed  closely  by  82  In 
Vaud  the  population  is  predominantly 
sub-brachycephalic. 

Nordische  Namensitten  zur  2^it  der 
VSlkerwanderung.  ( Globus,  Bmschwg. , 
1905,  LXXXVII,  96-97. )  Notes  that  Axel 
Olrik,  in  his  Danmarks  Heltedigtning 
(1903)1  has  shown  that  ca.  500  A.  D., 
Uie  rule  was  for  the  name  of  the  son  to 


alliterate  with  that  of  the  father,  a  good 
test  of  the  age  of  sagas. 

Otthoff  (H. )  Etymologische  Beitrtge 
zur  Mythologie  und  Religionsgeschichte. 
II  (A.  f.  Religsw.,  Lpzg.,  1904,  viii, 
5 1  -68. )  Discusses  etymologies  of  Greek 
TTcAw/o,  **  monster, '  *  and  iripac,  "  strange, 
ominous  phenomenon.''  O.  considers 
that  the  words  are,  with  Indo-German 
sound-changes,  the  same.  Cognates  are 
found  in  O.  N.  sJkars,  **  monster,  witch, 


etc.,'*  Lith.  J^fras,  **  magic,"  etc. 
£ix)m  the  root  Jt-r,  <<make,  do." 


All 


PadttOW  (The)  hobby  horse,  etc  ( Folk- 
Lore,  Lond.,  1905,  XVI,  56-60,  2  pi.) 
Brief  account  of  the  "hobby  horse,"  a 
May-day  custom  of  great  antiquity  in 
Cornwall,  with  texts  of  Padstow  May 
songs. 

PapilUnlt  (G.)  Contribution  It  Pitude 
des  <'cr&nes  n^groldes."  (Bull.  Soc 
d'Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v«  s.,  v,  554- 
558,  I  fg. )  Discusses,  after  Sergi's 
observations  and  measurements,  the 
** negroid"  skull  firom  the  old  graves  of 
Novilara,  near  Pesaro  in  the  Picenian 
country.  Dr  P.  considers  that  studies 
of  cranial  morphogeny  are  yet  very  hypo- 
thetical and  should  be  carefully  separated 
from  ethnological  classifications.  Ethnic 
must  be  distinguished  from  serial  char- 
acters. 

Piroutet  (M. )  Nouvelles  fouilles  de  tum- 
ulus aux  environs  de  Salins,  Jura. 
(L'Anthropologie,  Paris,  1904,  xv,  297- 
312,  16  fgs. )  Describes  a  number  of 
tumuli  and  contents  (skeletons,  fibulae, 
bracelets,  rings,  fragments  of  pottery, 
etc.,  terra  cotta  objects,  ear-rings,  belt- 
plate  of  stamped  bronze,  etc.).  The 
first  tumulus  contained  some  13  skeletons 
in  whole  or  in  part. 

Pittard  (£. )  L'indice  c^phalique  chez 
837  Tsiganes  (hommes)  de  la  p6ninsule 
des  Balkans.  Influence  de  la  taille  sur 
l'indice  c6phalique.  (Ibid.,  333-349.) 
Discusses,  with  r^sumds  of  measure- 
ments and  curve,  the  cephalic  index  of 
837  male  gypsies  of  the  Dobrudja. 
Comparisons  are  made  of  so-called  Rou- 
manian, Turkish,  Tartar,  Servian,  Hun- 
garian gypsies.  The  average  index  is 
78.25.  The  Bulgarian  gypsies  have  a 
larger  proportion  of  dolicephals  than 
Turkish  or  Roumanian  —  with  the  last 
the  proportion  of  brachycephals  is  highest 
(15  percent),  due  to  Roumanian  inter 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


54S 


mixluTC.     Dolichocephaly 


with  I 


PrUittoriKhe  Anaitellant;  des  WUrttem- 
bergischen  anthropologischen  Vereines 
m  SlUttgBTt.  (CoiT.-m.  d.  Dcntschen 
GFs.f.  Anthrop,,  Mtlnchen,  I905,xxxv], 
31-33. )  Brief  sccouat  of  the  exhibition 
of  prehistoric  objects,  etc.,  held  January 
13-30.  1905.  I'he  periods  represented 
were :  The  older  slone  age,  Uler  stone 
■ge,  pre-Roman  metal  period,  Roman 
period,  Franlc-AleiDaniaii  period. 

Pratt  (W.  A.)  Recent  archeologieal 
studies  in  Rome.  {Iowa  J.  Hist.  & 
Pol.,  Iowa  City,  1905,  111,  4S5-457-) 
Now  the  spirit  of  archcoli^y  rules  in  in- 
vestigations, not  that  of  commercialism.  1 
The  oldest  Rome  lies  undei  a  mass  of 
debris  30  to  50  feet  deep.  Parts  of  the  I 
Forum  were  covered  40  feel.  The  earlier 
graves  (ninth  century  B.  C.)  show  ' 
Etmscan,  but  not  Greek  influence.  I 

B.  Die  Wonnser  Steininlfunde.  (Glo- 
bus, Bmschwe,,  1905,  utxxvii,  383-  j 
185,  10  fgs.)  Discusses  the  recent  finds  ' 
in  graves  aiid  "stations"  of  the  stone  ,' 
age  about  Worms,  now  in  the  Paulus 
inuseum.  Three  types  of  potterr  occur 
in  places  with  corresponding  difference 
in  the  position  of  the  slieleton,  the  votive 
gifts,  etc.  The  iliults  found  are  rather 
highly  developed,  the  teeth  excellent. 
The  dwellings  seem  to  have  been  pits 
over  which  a  light  hut  was  erected. 

Badenucher  ( — )  Die  prShistorischen 
BegrftbnisstHtten am Niederrhein.  (Cor.- 
Bl.  d.  Deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anlhrop.,  I 
MliDChen,  1904,  XXXV,  50-51.)  Brief  | 
account  of  investigations  and  remains  1 
found,  —  some  30  Imrial-siles  are  now 
known.  The  contents  indicate  that  they  ! 
were  in  use  from  the  Hallstalt  period 
down  to  the  eraof  Roman  domination.        I 

Kudolph  (C.  B. )  The  martdragora  of  1 
the  ancients  in  fblk-lote  and  medidne.  . 
(Proc.  Amer.  Acad.  Arts  and  Sci.,  Bos-  ' 
ton,  1905,  XL.  487-537)  A  well- 
documented  itsumt  of  data  concerning  , 
mandragora  in  the  Creek  and  Latin  au-  | 
thoTS  and  their  commentators,  an  account 
of  mandragora  as  known  to  the  ancients,  | 
particularly  its  uses  in  medicine,  for  to  I 
the  Greeks  and  Romans  its  rSte  in  folk-  | 
lore  was  a  subordinate  one.  Among  the 
topics  considered  are  :  The  diggingcere- 
mony,  the  "  human  form  "  of  the  man- 
dragora, the   "hanged  thief,"  etc;  the  , 


beliefs  that  the  plant  induced  madne 
and  influenced  sexual  relatione ;  uses  of 

mandragora  in  ancient  medicine  ( plaster! 
and  poultices,  wine-drug,  soporific,  an- 
esthetic, "  there  never  had  been  a  time 
since  the  first  century  of  the  Christian 
era  when  the    use  of   mandragora   was 


it),  — while  mandragora  was  the 
prinapal  and  almost  the  only  anesthetic 
of  antiquity,  its  use  never  became  very 
general  either  in  ancient  or  medieval 
limes,  on  account  of  the  danger  attached 
thereto.     A  good  paper. 

BamiI  (E.)  La  popolaiione  israelitica  in 
lUlia,  (a.  d.  Soc.  Rom.  di  Anlrop., 
1904,  X,  Sl-93.]     Treats  of  the  nimiber, 

.  condition,  occupations,  etc.,  of  the  Italian 
Jens.  The  Jews  seek  large  centers  of 
population  and  are  most  numerous  in  the 
western  and  central  parts  of  the  country. 
There  ore  in  Italy  <-a.  36,000  Jews,  about 
the  same  as  40  years  ago.  Female! 
exceed  males  and  the  number  of  the  old 
is  proportionately  large.  Analphabetic! 
are  lew.  Trades  and  industries  lead  in 
occupations.  The  number  of  children 
is  less  than  might  be  expected. 

Rllf*"W  ( K. )  Die  Ethnographic  im 
DienMc  der  germanischen  Altcrtums- 
kunde.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
Lxxxvii,  131-136.1  Points  out  the 
importance  of  ethnography  for  Teutonic 
archeology  and  early  history.  Forms  of 
buildings  and  the  terms  used  to  name 
them  and  their  parts,  the  dialect  names 
of  instruments,  implements,  etc.,  are 
valuable  for  former  tribal  distinctions. 
R.  enumerates  among  the  chief  things  to 
be  studied  in  this  respect ;  The  body, 
clothing,  peasant  farm  economy  ( particu- 
larly buildings,  their  parts,  construction, 
etc.),  agriculture  (tools,  methods  of 
planting,  caring  for,  reaping,  etc), 
mythological  figures.  The  wooden  shoe 
is  discussed  with  some  detail  and  R. 
concludes  that  among  the  primitive  Teu- 
tons and  Gauls,  as  also  among  the  ancient 
Slavs  and  Lithuanians,  the  folk-shoe  was 


Ihebi 


Ehe  und  Schwiegerschafi  bci   den 

Indc^ermanen.  (Ibid.,  385-3S9.  |  Diss 
cosscs  Indo-German  bmily  relationship- 
(with  special  reference  to  Magyar  term! 
also)  and  gives  a  critique  of  Schrader*! 
Dif  Schwiigermutltr  und  der  Hagesteh 
(Brnschwg.,  1904).     Interesting  is  the 


546 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7, 1905 


accommodatioD  of  earlier  terms  (such  as 
Gothic  atta^  **  father/'  Albanian  am^, 
"mother,**  etc. )»  first  used  respectfully 
of  the  older  members  of  a  group  or  horde, 
to  the  members  of  the  family  proper  when 
it  arose.  The  mother-in-law  of  ancient 
times  was  the  mother  of  the  man,  the  real 
"housewife,**  the  d^/e  noire  o{  modem 
days  is  the  mother  of  the  wife  ( Schrader 
sketches  her  history  as  well  as  that  of  the 
other) .  In  primitive  Indo-German  times, 
for  religious  as  well  as  secular  reasons, 
there  were  no  bachelors.  Schrader*  s 
general  contention  that  the  bachelor  was 
the  product  of  the  town  and  town  life, 
does  not,  according  to  R.,  hold  for  the 
Teutonic  hagestoiz. 

ROse  (C. )  Beruf  und  Militflrtauglichheit. 
(Polit-anthrop.  R.,  Berlin,  1905,  iv,. 
124-150. )  In  this  article  with  numer- 
ous tables  the  author  gives  results  of  his 
extensive  investigations  in  Saxony  and 
Thuringia  and  makes  suggestions  for  in- 
creasing the  physical  well-being  of  the 
people.  Open-air  employment  yield  the 
most  qualified  for  military  service  ;  cities 
and  towns  (1.  ^.,  places  over  6,000  pop. ) 
much  fewer  than  the  country.  The 
physical  degeneration  of  the  urban  popu- 
lation begins  early.  The  order  of  mili- 
tary efficiency  is  country,  half-urban, 
urban.  Degeneracy  is  most  marked  in 
room-workers. 

Rosen  ( F. )  Ueber  Kindersparbiichsen  in 
Deutschland  und  Italien.  (Globus, 
Brnschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  277-281, 
I  fg. )  Describes  German  and  Italian 
children's  clay-banks  in  the  shape  of 
mamm(e^  sometimes  presented  to  women 
after  child-birth  to  put  gifls  and  savings 
in  for  the  child.  They  are  broken  when 
the  child  is  a  year  old  or  when  it  is 
weaned.  Similar  banks,  from  Pompeii, 
etc.,  are  2,000  years  old.  Connected 
with  these  things  are  the  cults  of  Bona 
Dea,  the  Roman  Rumilia,  the  Egyptian 
Isis,  etc., — the  mamma  was  a  symbol 
of  luck  with  the  deities  of  fortune. 

Roase  (W.  H.  D. )  Presidential  address. 
(Folk-Lore,  Lond.,  1905,  xvi,  14-26.) 
Discusses  chiefly  folk-tales  of  modem 
Greece,  in  order  to  study  which  one 
must  '*  avoid  all  newspaper  and  all  self- 
conscious  literary  works,  which  are  writ- 
ten in  the  most  astonishing  jargon  that 
was  ever  heard  of."  But  real  modern 
Greek  has  a  wealth  of  resource.  Folk- 
tales contain  many  echoes  of  mythology. 


Sartorl  ( P. )  Votive  und  Wdhegaben  des 
katholischen  Volkes  in  Sfiddeatschland. 
(Globus,  Brnschwg.,  1905,  LXXXVII, 
91-96,  10  fgs. )  R^sumis  the  recent 
work  (Bmschwg.,  1904,  191  pp.)  with 
the  same  title  by  Richard  Andree,  a  valu- 
able contribution  to  the  study  of  sacrifi- 
cial and  votive  gifts  and  to  the  literature 
of  heathen  survivals  in  Christendom. 

Schmidt  (E.)  Pr&historische  Pygmflen. 
flbid.,  309-312,  325-329.)  Discusses 
aetails  of  measurements,  Uie  pygmy  skel- 
etons hitherto  reported  from  prehistoric 
graves  and  *' stations**  in  various  por- 
tions of  Europe, —  Schweizersbild,  Grot- 
teaux,  F^es,  Ch&lons,  Mentone,  Cham- 
blandes,  Mureaux,  Worms,  Silesia,  etc. 
Prof.  S.  points  out  that,  since  they  occur 
in  a  region  where  cretinism  is  endemic, 
the  ossification  of  the  sutures  in  alleged 
pygmy  skulls  may  be  of  pathological  im- 
port and  not  an  indication  merely  of  age. 
Too  little  attention  also  has  been  paid  to 
individual  and  racial  variations  in  stature  ' 
(e.  g.,  the  proportion  of  small -statured 
among  the  Baden  recruits).  A  more 
serious  objection  against  the  Kollmann 
pygpny  theory,  viz.,  the  fact  that  the 
women  of  any  race  are  smaller  statured 
than  the  men.  Thus,  the  so-called 
''pygmies**  may  be  only  small  (mostly 
female)  individuals  belonging  to  a  race 
of  average  size. 

Schmidt  (H.)  Die  Keramik  der  make- 
donischen  Tumuli.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin, 
1905,  XXXVII,  91-113,  90  fgs.)  Dis- 
cusses the  pottery  remains  found  by 
Traeger  in  1900-1901  in  the  conic  and 
flat  tumuli  of  the  great  plain  of  Saloniki, 
—  very  few  in  the  former,  abundant  in 
the  latter  :  The  indigenous  monochrome 
pottery  and  its  omamentation  ( rectilinear, 
spiral,  ribbon-spiral),  imported  painted 
pottery  (Mycenian,  Hellenic,  etc.),  eth- 
nologic data.  An  indigenous  develop- 
ment through  three  stages  is  noted,  and 
S.  ascribes  the  three  older  groups  of 
Macedonian  pottery  to  peoples  of  Thra- 
cian  stock,  —  they  are  a  local  variety 
differing  considerably  from  the  Trojan 
forms,  yet  indicate  the  place  of  origin  of 
the  latter  in  Europe.  The  Trojans  may 
have  emigrated  to  Asia  Minor  before  in 
their  original  home  the  development  of  the 
pointed  and  scratched  spirals  assumed  the 
proportions  of  a  full  decorative  system. 

Schroeder    (O.)    Hyperboreer.      (A.    f. 
Religsw.,    Lpzg.,    1904,   viii,  69-84.) 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


547 


Treats  of  the  "Hyperboreans,**  —  for- 
eign to  the  oldest  Epos,  and  first  appear- 
ing in  the  Epigones  and  Hesoid.  The 
hyperboreans'  country  was  ** heaven,** 
and  the  celestial  folk  were  by  and  by 
degraded  into  an  ethnographic  wonder. 
The  myth  grew  up  in  a  land  and  at  a 
time  when  "  mountain  *'  was  called 
Poptg^  —  I.  f.  in  pre-Hellenic  northern 
Greece.  It  took  its  finer  form  in  Boeotia, 
and  thence  fertilized  the  hero-tale  and 
the  literature,  and  inspired  the  cults  of 
Delos  and  Delphi. 

Schrdder  (Prof.)  Ortsnamen  und  Sie- 
delungsgeschichte  mit  Beriicksichtigung 
von  SUdhannover  und  Hessen.  (Corr.- 
Bl.  d.  Deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anthrop.,  MUn- 
chen,  1904,  XXXV,  47-48. )  The  greater 
part  of  South  Hanoverian  and  Hessian 
place-names  belong  to  the  period  400 
B.  C.  to  1200  A.  D.  The  -hagen 
names  mark  the  iith  and  12th  cen- 
turies ;  those  in  -rode  mostly  Carlovin- 
gian ;  most  of  those  in  -feld^  -bach, 
hausen,  -darf  heim,  etc.  Older  names 
are  those  in  -in gen  {e,  g,  Gdttingen), 
-ithi,  -larif  -tnary  etc.  Gdttingen  is 
more  than  a  thousand  years  old. 

Schultze  (Dr)  Demonstration  des  Croy- 
Teppichs.  (Ibid.,  81.)  Brief  descrip- 
tion of  a  remarkable  piece  of  tapestry, 
with  figures  of  historical  characters  of  the 
period,  made  in  1554,  and  once  on  the 
walls  of  the  ducal  castle  in  Wolgast. 

Schwalbe  (G. )  Bericht  Uber  die  Th&tig- 
keit  der  Commission  fiir  eine  physisch- 
anthropologische  Untersuchung  des 
Deutschen  Reiches.  (Ibid.,  75-79.) 
Outlines  program  and  method  of  pro- 
posed anthropological  investigation  of 
the  population  of  the  German  Empire, 
by  a  committee  of  the  Society  at  a  cost  of 
some  360,000  M.,  spread  over  a  period 
of  perhaps  ten  years.  The  schedule  to 
be  employed  is  appended. 

Ueber    das    individuelle    Alter    des 

Neanderthalmenschen.  (Ibid.,  92-94. ) 
Criticizes  WalkhofTs  contention  that  the 
bones  of  the  Neanderthal  man  belonged 
to  an  individual  ca.  30  years  of  age. 
Dr  S.  believes  him  to  have  been  be- 
tween 40  and  65, — the  evidence  con- 
sidered is  the  condition  of  the  femur  and 
the  skull. 

Segerr— )  Berichte  tiber  die  Th&tigkeit 
der  Commission  fUr  den  Schutz  der  vor- 
geschichtlichen  Denkmftler.   ( Ibid. ,  79. ) 


Gives  recommendations  of  committee  on 
preservation  of  prehistoric  monuments : 
Passage  of  special  laws,  institution  of 
care-takers  for  prehistoric  antiquities, 
strengthening  and  better  endowment  of 
museums  with  funds  for  investigations, 
etc. 

Singleton  (A.  H.)  Dairy  folk-lore  and 
other  notes  from  Meath  and  Tipperary. 
(Folk-Lore,  Lond.,  1904,  xv,  457-462.) 
Treats  of  May-day  customs,  "overlook- 
ing" cattle,  •*  wise  woman  (pishogtie)^** 
folk-medicine,  marriage  charms,  super- 
stitions. 

Sdkeland  ( — )  Ueber  das  Berliner  Tracht- 
museum.  (Corr.-Bl.  d.  Deutschen  Ges. 
f.  Anthrop.,  MUnchen,  1904,  XXXV, 
148-149.)  Notes  that  the  "Custom 
Museum,*'  founded  by  Virchow,  has 
been  taken  over  by  the  Prussian  govern- 
ment as  a  part  of  the  Ethnological  Mu- 
seum at  Berlin.  A  questionnaire  has 
also  been  prepared. 

▼on  Stenin  ( P. )  Dr  A.  A.  Iwanowsky's 
Anthropologic  Kusslands.  ( Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  198-200.) 
R^sum^s  chief  facts  of  Ivanowski*s  mon- 
ograph on  the  anthropology  of  Russia 
published  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Im- 
perial Society  of  Devotees  of  the  Natural 
Sciences,  Anthropology  and  Ethnogra- 
phy (University  of  Moscow)  for  1904, 
with  a  bibliography  of  38  pages.  The 
Slavs  are  anthropometrically  a  very  mixed 
group,  and  the  Great  Russians  vary  much 
in  physical  type  from  place  to  place, — 
the  Little  Russians  also.  The  Poles  are 
nearest  the  Great  Russians,  and  of  the 
non-Slavs  the  nearest  to  the  latter  are  the 
Syijanians.  The  Lapps,  Letts,  Mord- 
wins,  the  Little  Russians  of  Kiev,  the 
Armenians,  Ossetes,  the  Kumyks,  the 
Kurds —  Persians  and  Transcaucasian 
Tartars  (one  group),  the  Central  Asia- 
tics ( Kirghiz,  Tarantches,  Afghans, 
Sarts,  etc. )  in  one  group,  Karakirghiz 
and  Turkmen,  the  Mongols,  are  separate 
anthropological  groups.  The  Yakuts, 
Buriats,  and  Northern  Tungus  belong 
together.  The  Ainos  and  Ostiaks  are 
two  other  separate  groups.  I.'s  work  is 
accompanied  by  maps  of  distribution  of 
color  of  hair  and  eyes,  stature,  cephalic 
index. 

Svenonins  (F. )  Den  nya  Norrbottens- 
kartan,  med  s&rskildt  afseende  p&  ort- 
namnens  stafning.  ^Ymer,  Stockholm., 
1904,  XXIII,  400-400. )    Treats  of  Norse, 


548 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  190S 


Tbitanin*  (G.)  KrOIe  und  GeUnnutter. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,  LXXXVl, 
105^110,  3  fgs. )  Discusses,  with  refer- 
ences to  the  literature  of  the  subject,  the 

ver,  iu  South  Gemmn  folk-lore  and  fblL- 
cusloni,  the  connection  in  roik-tbonght 
between  the  womb  and  children  and  the 
frog  and  toad,  etc..  and  related  phe- 
nomena in  folk -medicine.  The  origin 
ol  these  "  magic  "  relations  is  in  doubt, 
—  perhaps  Ihey  sprang  from  some  resem- 
blance between  the  uterus  and  the  frog 
in  form,  combined  vith  ihe  idea  that 
women  sometimes  gave   birth   to  such 


Traegel    (P.)     Ueber  die  JUrUken    and 
KoDJaren      in      Matedonien.        (Z.       f.    1 
Ethnol-,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvic,  198-306, 
II  fgs.)     Describes  the  Vuruks  of  lake   I 
l^mga  (industries,  —  "Ihe  most  indos-    ' 
trious  people  in  Macedonia,  according  to    ' 
Beaujour  ;   physical   characters, — Mon- 
gol element  noticeable)  visited  by  aQthor 
in  1901.     Also  notes  on  the  Konyars  of  I 
southwestern     Macedonia,    also    inmii- 
grants  from  Asia  Minor.     Their  carpets   ' 
are  well-known.  I 

TuiOt  (G,)  L'atrophie  infantile  comme  | 
facteur  de  I'abaissemenI  de  la  taille  dans  . 
les  faubourgs  de  Paris.  ( Bull.  Soc.  ! 
d'ftnlbr.  de  Paris,  1904,  V  s.,  V,  633- 
637.)  From  the  obsertation,  by  him- 
self and  collaborators,  of  more  than  3,000 
children  (from  birth  and  for  several 
months)  in  1S92-1904  at  the  Belleville 
free  dispensary,  Dr  V.  comes  lo  Ihe  con- 
clusion Ibflt  digestive  troubles  and  Ihe 
inanition  resulting  therefrom  (or  "pro- 
longed infantile  atrophy  "J  are  a  prime 
factor  in  lowering  the  slalurc  of  Parisian 
man  of  the  bubourgs.  The  child  exists, 
or  vegetates,  rather  than  grons  or  in- 
creases in  weight  and  stature.  Food  is 
very  important  here. 

VMTme(O-)  Fonted'armesder6poque 
du  bronze  it  I'fpoque  gnuloise  dans  le 
d^parlement  de  I'Aisne.  (Ibid.,  491.) 
Notes  on  the  fragment  of  a  bronze  sword 
belonging  to  the  bronze  age,  but  recast 
during  the  Gaulish  epoch.  This  recast- 
ing would  aTCounI  for  the  disappearance 
of  many  bronze  age  weapons. 

Vebltn  (A.  A.)  Recent  arch eotogical  in- 
vestigations in  northern  Europe.     (Iowa 


J.   HisL  &  Pol.,   Iowa  City,   1905. 

453-455.)  Notes  on  bnri^  n 
boat  burial,  etc  In  prehistoric  di 
great  center  of  human  development  in 
northern  Europe  was  Bround  die  Baltic 
sea.  In  the  iron  age  culture  ran  np  the 
Norwegian  coast.  The  oldest  impcotaot 
relics  are  bronic  (co.  1700-500  B.C.), 

Vwumh  (R.  )  Crlne  de  Baousst- Roust. 
(Bull.  Soc.  d'Antbr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v" 
S-.  V,  559-561.)  Describes  a  plaster- 
cast  of  one  of  the  negroid  ikalls  from  the 
CroCte  des  EnGuits.  presented  to  the 
Society  by  the  Prince  de  Monaco. 

Verwoni(— )  Ein  altsBchsisches  Gitber- 
feld  beiGroneinderNlheron  GAttingen. 
( Corr.  -Bl.  d.  deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anthrop. , 
MUnchen,  1904,  XKXV,  48. )  Brief  ac- 
count of  excavation  of  four  graves  ukd 
contents  belonging  to  the  seTenth  to  ninth 
centuries.  In  one  a  hoTM  and  man  Were 
boried  together. 

Vrain  (U.  G. )  OsserTaiioni  antit^po- 
logiche  nel  Montenegro  1901.  [A.  A. 
Soc.  Rom.  di  Antrop.,  1905,  xi,  183— 
195. )  Gives  details  of  cranial  meaaore- 
ments,  etc.,  of  35  individuals  (8  fnoi 
Dubido,  10  from  the  prison  at  Podgorina, 
6  from  Nickmaras.  and  9  from  other 
places,  all  Albanians),  —  all  males,  ex- 
cept 4.  The  cephalic  index  ranges  75. 1- 
9J.I,  and  14  out  of  34  lie  between  85 
and  90  (29  brachycephalic).  The 
sphenoid  form  of  head  is  most  common 
(l9out  of  34)  and  Ihe  oval  form  of  face 
(U  out  of  39).      Tattooing  is  .are. 

W.  (R.)  Die  Gewichtssystcme  des  xi. 
und  XII.  Jahrh.  inden  jetzigen  Russischen 
Ostseeprovinien.  (Globus,  Bmschwg., 
1905,  LXXXVn,  Z06. )  R6su mis  article 
by  Dr  J.  Sachssendahl  in  the  Siligt.  d. 
GtUhrl.  Eiltt.  Gci.  (Dorpat)  for  1904 
on  the  weights  of  Ihe  Baltic  provinces  in 
the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries.  The 
weight-sets  (3  to  10)  are  of  two  types, 
'uodecimal  in  distinction,  the  other 


wilhn 


arked  divi 


Weber  (F. )  Spuren  des  Menschen  der 
Bronzezeil  in  den  Hochalpen  des  deut- 
schen Sprachgebiels.  (Corr.-Bl.  d.  Deut- 
schen Ges.  f.  Anthrop.,  Mlinchen.  1905, 
XXXVI,  2-7.)  Discusses  the  traces  of 
man  of  the  bronze  age.  Neolithic  man 
did  not  climb  the  mountain -heights ;  in 
the  German  high  Alps  prehistoric  paths 


led  0 


The  I 


discovered  are  of  an  individual  character. 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


549 


lest  objects  perhapi,  indicating  travel 
and  trade  of  a  sedentary  people,  lasting 
tbrou^  the  older  stage*  of  the  HalUtatt 

WelMenbcig  (S. )    Die  Feit-  and  Fastlage 
det  iddnuuichen  Juden  in  ethnogra[A- 
iicber Beiiebung.     (Globus,  Bmschwg., 
I90S,LXXiivn,a62-i7i,9fg;s.).    Treats 
of  the  festivities  and  fast^  etc,  relating 
(o  the  Sabbatb  (phjnical  labor  avoided, 
but  ibws  kept  open),  the  month  EIul, 
rAng.-Sept.),     New     Year's     festival   I 
(Rosch  Hoschanah,  the  ten  penitential   | 
days,  the  day  of  atonenient  (Jom  Nip- 
pur), the  festival  of  arbots  (Sukkoth), 
The  Maccabscan  festival,  the  festival  of  I 
lots  (Pnrim),   the   Passah  festival,   the   ' 
festival    of    weeks,    destruction    of    the 
temple,  day  of  the  new  moon. 

WMtoB  (Jennie  L.}  The  '■  ScopjMO  del 
Carro"  at  Florence.  ( Folic- Lore,  Lond., 
1905,  XVI,  181-184.)  Brief  account  of 
annual  ceremonf  as  perfonned  at  Easter, 
1 904.  The  shape  of  the  carro  is  curious 
and  the  elaborate  decoration  of  the  oxen 
is  suggestive  of  a  lacriiicial  origin. 

Whoiij  (Beatrix  A.)  Miscellaneous  notes 
from  Monmouihshire.  (Ibid.,  63-67). 
Treats  of  fairies  (child-stealers),  under- 
ground music  (fiddler),  banshee,  folk- 
medicine,  wooing  and  wedding  customs, 
burial  ceremonies,  etc. 

WUaar  (L.)  Die  Etmsker.  (Corr.-BI. 
d.  Deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anthrop.,  MUn- 
chen,  1904,  XXXV,  52-53.)  Discusses 
briefl]'  Khxtian  place  and  river  names, 
physical  characters,  language,  etc.  W. 
holds  that  both  the  Rhztians  and  Etrus- 
cans were  Aryans,  belonging  to  the  long- 
headed blond  North  Kuropean  race. 
Clothing,  weapons,  writing,  art,  religion 
ally  them  with  Ihe  Aryan  stock  (particu- 
larly the  Helleoic  branch ).  The  text  of 
the  Agram  mudlmy-cloths  (1,100  words 
legible),  according  to  W.,  proves  the 
Aryanism  of  the  Etruscans  in  speech  and 
Ihe  affinities  of  tbejr  tongue  with  andeni 
Greek. 

Ueber   Pytheas    und    sein     Nord- 

landTahrt.  (Ibid.,  60.  |  Pytheas  in  his 
famous  northern  voyage  did  not  reach 
the  Baltic  proper.  He  was  Ihe  first  to 
record  in  writing  the  names  Cimbri, 
Teutons.  Colhs.  Others  hold  that  Pytheas 
came  into  the  Baltic  and  thai  the  Tanais 
was  one  of  the  great  rivers  of  Germany 
emptying  into  that  sea. 


2«boroirakl  (S.)  L'ftge  des  lipulture* 
dc  Chamblandes  en  caisses  de  pierre  k 
iqueiletes  replies.  (Bull.  Soc.  d'Antbr. 
de  Paris,  1904,  n.s.,  v,  610-615.)  Dis- 
cusses recent  publications  of  Schenk,  who 
holds  that  the  men  of  Chamblandes  en- 
tered Switzerland  from  the  south  before 
the  arrival  of  the  brachjcephalic  buiidcrs 
of  lake  dwellings.  Z.  holds  that  there 
exists  a  certain  synchronism  between  the 
graves  of  Chamblandes  and  the  lake- 
dwellings  belonging  to  tbe  last  phase  of 
the  neolithic  age.  The  Worms  necropoli 
of  Dr  Koehl  are  also  contemporaneous. 

Origine  des Slaves.    ( Ibid., 67i-73a ) 

In  this  detailed  monograph,  in  which  are 
discussed  the  Veneti  (the  oldest  Slav 
people,  ^  who  burned  their  dead  and 
propagated  brachycephalism)  and  their 
physical  and  other  characters,  archeolog- 
ical  remains,  graves  and  customs  con- 
nected therewith,  mingling  with  other 
people  of  central  and  western  Europe, 
etc.,  ethnographic  resemblances  between 
the  Bretons  and  Carpathian  peoples  (due 
to  Hallstatt-Gallic  survivals),— in  fact 
all  aspects  of  the  question  of  Slavic  origins, 
—  Z.  concludes  that  the  Slaves  in  lilu  are 
the  descendants  and  representatives  of  the 
brachycephalic  race  who  practised  indn- 
eratioD, —  the  incinerating  peoples  of 
Illyria,  Pannonia,  Bohemia,  etc.,  were 
Slavs,  or  their  ancestors.  The  head- 
dresses of  the  Hallstatt  epoch,  e.g.,  are 
represented  by  the  covers  of  cinerary 
urns  still  in  use  on  the  opper  Vistula,  in 
Moravia,  and  in  the  Carpathians.  The 
Slav  type  arose  in  the  Danubian  region 
by  modification  of  the  Protaryan  and 
Thracian  stock.  The  remains  at  Glase- 
nac  ( IIOO  B.C. )  indicate  the  appearance 
of  a  new  people,  whose  pri^ess  is 
marked  by  incineration  of  the  dead  and 
Ihe  etpansion  of  "Hallstatt  industry." 

Z«ChliD  (K.)  Ueber  Silexmanufakte  in 
der  Altinark.  (Z.  f.  Ethnol.,  Berlin, 
1905.  xxxvri,  309.)  Notes  00  tlint- 
arrowhesds  and  other  implements,  large 
and  small,  found  in  gravel-pits  in  various 
parts  of  Allmark,  particularly  oearSali- 

Zlmgaat  (Dr)  Ueber  das  Wachsturader 
Schiiler.  (Z.  f.  Scliulgesndtspfl.,  Ber- 
lin, 1904,  695-646. )  Discusses  Ihe 
stature-growth  of  278  students  of  the 
Emperor  Francis  Joseph  Gymnasium, 
Mlhr.-Schdnbetg,  measured  (since 
I       (1&94-5J  at  the  beginning  and  end  of 


5  so 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


each  semester.  Those  of  the  first  three 
classes  grew  more  in  the  first  semester  ; 
those  of  the  fourth  class  showed  no  dis- 
tinction ;  those  of  the  higher  classes  grew 
more  in  the  first  semester.  The  students 
of  all  classes  grew  faster  in  vacation  than 
in  school  time.  The  maximum  of  growth 
increase  is  reached  in  the  third  class, 
augmenting  from  the  first  Then  the 
average  increase  varies  little,  and  the 
fifth  class  sees  a  decline. 

AFRICA 

Bazley  (W. )  Exploration  of  a  Bush- 
man's cave  in  Alfred  county,  Natal. 
(Man,  Lond.,  1905,  lo-ii,  3  fgs. )  De- 
scribes excavation  of  deposit  (several 
strata)  and  human  (three  skeletons)  and 
other  remains  discovered.  At  a  depth 
of  16  feet  below  the  floor  ''thousands of 
scrapers  of  all  sizes,  some  not  larger  than 
a  finger-nail,  also  cores,  chips  and  flakes, 
by  the  cart-load,  with  a  few  arrow-heads 
and  knives,  but  mostly  broken,*'  were 
found.  In  the  upper  strata  other  human 
remains  and  stone  implements  occurred. 

Berklun  (O.)  Helw&n,  ein  Kurort  in 
der  WUste.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
Lxxxvii,  1 1 7-1 19,  2  fgs. )  Brief  account 
of  Helw&n,  a  sanitarium,  in  the  desert 
south  of  Cairo. 

Bertholon  (L.)  U  annie  anthropolo- 
gique  Nord-Africaine  1903-04.  (Rev. 
Tunisienne,  1904,  extr.,  pp.  16.) 
R^sum^s  anthropological  literature  con- 
cerning northern  Africa. 

Origine  n^olithique  et  myc^nienne 


des  tatouages  des  indigenes  du  Nord 
de  r  Afrique.  (A.  d'  Anthrop.  crim., 
Paris,  1904,  XIX,  756-786,  59  fgs.) 
In  this  monograph  the  author  compares 
the  modern  tattooing  of  the  natives  of 
northern  Africa  with  the  statuettes, 
etc.,  of  the  neolithic  period  of  eastern 
Europe,  and  attributes  to  the  former, 
with  other  elements  in  the  culture  of  the 
Berbers,  etc.,  the  civilization  of  neolithic 
Europe,  particularly  in  the  Mycenean 
region. 

Caitwright  (Minnie)  Folk-lore  of  the 
Basuto.  (Folk-Lore,  Lx)nd.,  1904,  xv, 
244-263. )  Treats  of  cannibalism  and 
ghosts,  charms,  spirit  of  maternity,  cus- 
toms connected  with  birth  of  first  child, 
child-birth,  wooing  and  marriage,  wom- 
an's property  (hut),  death  and  funeral 
practices,    avoidance  of  name  of  dead 


(among  older  and  less  dvilized), 
<'  Thokolosi "  (a  baboon-like  evil  spirit 
and  poisoner,  etc.).  The  English  text 
of  **The  Maid  and  her  Snake- lover  **  is 
also  given. 

Deyrolle  ( M. )  Sanctuaires  k  poterie  n^oli- 
thiques  et  dolmen  modeme  en  Tunisie. 
(L*  Anthropologic,  Paris,  1904,  XV,  373- 
375,  I  fg. )  Treats  of  the  khallawa  or 
ex-voto  sanctuaries  ( often  ancient  sepul- 
chral monuments)  of  northeast  Tunisia. 
That  of  ATn  Bathia  is  interesting,  being 
really  a  modem  dolmen  erected  by  the 
Arabs.  Close  at  hand  are  the  remains 
of  a  Byzantine  fort,  and  of  a  Roman  town. 

Hutter  {Hptm. )  Vdlkerbilder  aus  Kame- 
run.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
LXXXVII,  235-238,  301-304,  365-370. ) 
Discusses  linguistic  relations  (Hamitic 
tongues  :  Kanuri,  Arabic,  Fula  ;  Logon 
group  :  Makari,  Musgu,  Marghi,  Batta  ; 
Falli  ;  Mbum  group :  Mbum,  Bai, 
Tikar  ;  Fan,  —  Bantu )  ;  Ilaussa  ;  the 
so-called  dwarf-peoples  (H.  thinks  the 
pygmy  riddle  will  be  solved  rather  in 
Asia  and  Europe  than  in  Africa ) ;  the 
Fan  (noticeable  political  decentraliza- 
tion ;  dwellings ;  rudiments  of  phallic 
cult )  ;  Sudan  Negroes  ( dwellings,  cloth- 
ing, religion)  ;  Arabs  (Shoa,  — people 
had  to  give  up  camel  for  cattle);  Fula 
(the  chivalric)  and  Haussa  (mercantile 
element)  of  Sudan. 

Kirk  (J.  W.  C.)  Specimens  of  Somali 
tales.  (Folk-Lore,  Lond.,  1904,  xv, 
3 16-326. )  Gives  English  texts  of  eleven 
brief  tales  (the  native  versions  are  soon 
to  be  published)  from  men  of  the  Ishhak 
tribes  from  the  Burao  district.  A  note 
by  E.  S.  Hartland  discussed  some  of  the 
incidents.  H.  attributes  the  defects  of 
certain  tales  to  the  fact  that  they  were 
not  told  by  women,  who  are  *'  notoriously 
the  best  tellers  of  marchenJ*^  Some 
Arab  additions  are  indicated. 

Passarge  (S. )  Die  Mambukuschu.  (Glo- 
bus, Bmschwg.,  1905,  LXXXVII,  229- 
234,  295-301,  26  fgs. )  Treats  of  habitat, 
anthropological  characteristics,  clothing 
and  ornament  (women's  dress  more  than 
men's),  dwellings,  implements  and 
weapons  (one  type  of  hut-group  re- 
sembles that  of  the  Ovarabo,  another 
that  of  the  Bechuana  ;  conical  huts,  mat- 
huts),  beds,  iron -forging,  bow-and-arrow 
(arrow  held  between  second  and  third 
fingers  of  right  hand),  drum  (reverenced 
as  a  god)  called  mordtOy  river  anH  island 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


551 


life  of  natives,  agriculture  and  cattle- 
breeding  (formerly  much  more  impor- 
tant), hunting  (spearing  hippopotamus, 
shooting  antelopes  with  poisoned  arrows, 
traps  for  hyenas,  etc., — fishing  is  not 
practised^,  trade  and  industries  (com- 
merce with  Bushmen,  —  ostrich  shells, 
feathers,  etc. )  social  and  political  condi- 
tions (chief  and  council  of  family-heads), 
language  ( vocabulary  of  150  words  and 
a  few  phrases),  etc.  The  Mambukushu 
belong  to  the  Bantu  stock  and  are  closely 
related  to  the  Barutse,  both  in  speech 
and  culture. 

Read  (C.  H. )  A  necklace  of  glass  beads 
from  West  Africa.  (Man,  Lx>nd.,  1905, 
1-2,  I  pi.)  Describes  necklace  from 
tomb  of  a  renowned  chief  at  Mansu  on 
the  route  from  Elmina  to  Kamasi,  —  the 
crystalline  glass  is  *  *■  identical  in  appear- 
ance with  those  from  the  tombs  at  Ca- 
mirus  in  Rhoades,  dating  from  the  sixth 
century.'*  This  first  find  in  Africa  of 
''  glass  beads  of  classical  style  "  is  a  new 
datum  of  great  importance. 

Seidel  ( H. )  Togo  im  Jahre  1904.  (Glo- 
bus, Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  238- 
241.)  After  January  i,  1906,  English 
will  no  longer  be  taught  in  the  mission 
schools  of  Togo. 

Erste  Namengebung  bei  den  Evhe- 

negern  in  Togo.  (Ibid.,  176-177.) 
Based  on  articles  on  Evhe  names  by 
Spiess  in  Afrikanische  Studicn  for  1903 
and  1904.  At  birth  comes  the  day-name 
( from  names  of  the  days  of  the  week), 
eight  days  later  the  child  is  given  a 
second  name  by  the  father.  These  con- 
sist of  fear-names,  shame-names,  names 
of  occasion,  wish-names,  names  from 
personal  peculiarities,  devotional  names, 
etc.  When  converted  to  Christianity  the 
negro  keeps  his  day-name,  e.  g.^  Julie 
Afuwa,  and,  it  might  be  said,  Robin- 
son's man  Friday. 

Seiner  (F. )  Die  W^ichtigsten  neuen  Auf- 
gaben  in  Deutsch-SUd  westfrika.  ( Ibid. , 
165-168.  )  Author  advocates  strict  treat- 
ment of  the  aborigines  with  fixed  re- 
serves, the  giving  up  of  them  as  laborers, 
etc. 

Sewell  (R.  B.  S.)  A  study  of  the  astra- 
galus. (J.  Anat.  8^  Phys.,  Lx>nd.,  1904, 
XXXVIII,  233-247,  4  pi.).  Based  on 
examination  of  more  than  1 000  human 
astragali,  of  which  a  large  part  were 
obtained  from  Egyptian  graves  ( from  pre- 
historic to  Roman  era).     The  index  ot 


length -breadth  averaged  78,  ranging  from 
66.7  to  91.7;  the  greatest  length  aver- 
aged 50  mm.,  ranging  from  41  to  65 
mm. ,  greatest  breadth  averaged  39  mm., 
ranging  from  32  to  48  mm. 

Sheppard  (W.  H.)  Light  in  darkest 
Africa.  (So.  Wkmn.,  Hampton,  Va., 
1905,  xxxiv,  218-227,  5  fgs. )  Con- 
tains notes  on  King  Lukenga,  the  Zappo- 
Zaps  and  their  chief,  Malumba  N'kusa 
etc. 

Spiess  (C. )  Zeitrechnung  bei  den  Evhe 
in  Togo.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
LXXXVII,  1 73-174. )  Notes  on  record  of 
time  by  notch-cutting,  marks  or  door, 
wall,  etc.,  placing  grains  of  com  in  vessel, 
bundles  of  grain,  etc.  Time  of  day  is 
told  by  position  of  sun,  distance  by  time 
of  eating  meal,  etc. 

Tate  (H.  R. )  Further  notes  on  the  Kikuyu 
tribe  of  British  East  Africa.  ( J.  Anthr. 
Inst.,  Lond.,  1 904,  xxxiv,  255-265,  2 
pi.)  Treats  of  painting  and  tattooing 
of  unmarried  youths  and  maidens,  habi- 
tations (unmarried  sleep  by  themselves), 
swimming  (side  stroke  only),  basket- 
work,  string,  leather- work,  fire  (drill, 
fire-god  with  she-goat  sacrifice),  food, 
cooking,  drinks,  meals  (day-breaJc  meal- 
time), religion,  fetishes,  obsession  and 
possession,  spiritualism,  idolatry,  spirits 
and  demons,  nature-spirits,  polytheism 
(two  good  gods  and  one  bad),  worship, 
dance- festivals,  ceremonies,  etc.,  circum- 
cision (only  a  custom). 

Wake  ( C.  S. )  Traits  of  an  ancient  Egyp- 
tian folk-tale  compared  with  those  of 
aboriginal  American  tales.  (J.  Amer. 
Folk-Lore,  Boston,  1904,  xvii,  255- 
264).  Discusses  Egyptian  tale  of  the 
Two  Brothers  (nineteenth  djrnasty), 
whose  opening  episode  resembles  the 
story  of  Joseph  and  Potiphar's  wife. 
Compares  with  Arapaho  legends  (Light- 
stone,  the  sun,  sleepy-young-man  and  the 
cannibals,  etc. ),  the  Celtic  **  Battle  of  the 
birds,"  the  classic  Eros  and  Psyche,  etc. 
W.  seems  to  explain  them  all  as  sun- 
myths. 

Wasserbindung  (Die)  zwischen  Niger 
und  Tsadsee.  (Globus,  Bmschwg., 
1905,  LXXXVII,  168-173,  187-190,  II 
fgs.,  map. )  Describes,  after  his  recent 
book  La  grande  route  du  Tchad  (Paris, 
1905),  Lenfant's  joumey  from  Garuaon 
the  Benue,  up  the  Mao-Kebi,  and 
through  Lake  Tuburi    to  Logone,   the 


552 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


great  left  tribatory  of  the  Sh>ri.  CoH'  | 
tains  notes  on  the  palace  of  Gontiome  in  I 
Lere,  (he  Mundang  Iribe  (Iheir  houses,  ' 
etc. ),  the  people  of  Musgu,  etc.  ' 

,  Waakl  (J.  H.  ]  Notes  from  the  Upper  1 
Congo,  III.  (Folk-Lore,  Lond.,  1904,  ' 
JtV.  336-331.)      Gives,   with    some    ex- 

Iilanatoiy  notes,  the  English  teil  of  (wo  I 
egends  relating  to  Libania,  "the  near-  ' 
est  equivalent  wecsn  get  to  God."  God  I 
with  these  natives  consists  of  "  four  per-  ' 
sons  all  seeming  eijual,  and  each  supreme 

WNtemuuin  (D.)  Ueber  die  BegHffe 
Seele,  Geist,  Schicksal,  bei  dem  Ewe- 
und  Tschivolk.  ( A.  f.  Religsw.,  Lpig., 
1904.  VIII,  104-113,)  Treats  of  the 
etymoic^  and  meanings  of  (he  words 
for  "soul,"  "spirit,"  "  fiite,"  etc., 
among  the  Ewe  and  Tshi  negroe*  of 
Western  Africa.  The  pre-eiisling  soul 
and  protective  spirit,  personal  principle, 
etc.,  of  man,  is  tailed  in  Ewe  aklamS, 
Tshi  okra.  After  death  it  is  no  longer 
"sonl "  bu(  "spirit,  ghost,"  and  is  then 
Ewe  >)£/i,  Tshi,  sha,  or  ojamaH,  and  is 
dangerous  until  il  receives  ■  second  incar- 
nation,—  the  child  repeats  (heaocestor. 
Another  word  (or  "  soul  "  is  Ewe  liemB, 
Tshi  judiuw,  "shadow," — these  are 
used  in  the  Christian  literature  for 
"soul."  /JWamd  signifies  also  "fate, 
fortune,  luck." 

Wnteimarck  ( E. )  The  magic  origin  of 
Moorish  designs.  (J.  Anthr.  Inst., 
Lond.,  1904,  XXXIV,  211-322,  I  pi.,  52 
fgs. )  Dr  W.  produces  evidence  to  show 
that  "belief  in  the  evil  eye  has  exercised 

art."  People  endeavor  lo  "  protect  their 
property  from  the  envious  eyes  of  their 
fellow-men,"  by  patterns  representing 
the  human  hand,  the  Rgure  live  (live 
fingers),  the  cross  {as  a  five,  etc.),  and 
its  derivatives,  intersecting  squares  (as 
pair  of  eyes),  combinations  of  hand  and 
eye,  the  eye  itself  (colossal  sometimes), 
triangle  (for  eye),  conventional iicd  eye 
and  eyebrow,  ^lany  of  the  familiar 
patterns  on  rugs,  cnrpets,  tapestry,  wall- 
paper, (rays,  china,  etc,  have  such  a 
"magic"  origin. 

Midsummer    customs   in   Morocco. 

(Follt.Lore,  Lond,,  1905,  xvi,  27-47,) 
Treats  of  lire -ceremonies  for  purifying 
men  and  animals,  water  rites  (at  mid- 
energy ),  earth  throwing,  evil-eye  charms. 


eating-cermioiiies  (■  meuu  of  transfer- 
ring blesnngi).  Allhoiigti  the  Moorub 
midsummer  costrani  have  bd  Arabic- 
Hebrew  name,  they  may  be  genuine 
Berber  rites.  PuHliGation  ceremcmiet  mt 
midsummer  occur  only  in  Europe  >nd 
northern  Africa,  and  Dr  W.  thinki  thejr 
may  "dale  from  a  period  when  soch 
ceremonies  were  common  lo  the  Mediter- 
ranean race."  He  thus  favors  the  hy- 
pothesis of  "a  racial  affinity  between  the 
Berbers  and  most  European  nationi  of 
(he  presen(day." 
Zlborowakl  (S.)  Races  de  la  primittTc 
£:gypte.  (  Bull.  Soc.  d' Anthr.  de  Paria, 
1904,  V*  s.,  V,  600-610. 1  RisDin«i  re- 
cent articles  by  Flinders  Petrie  and  J. 
Kollmann,  and  Chantre's  Rtiktrckts  an- 
thropologiquts  en  Cgyflt  (Paris,  1904)- 
According  lo  Petrie,  Upper  Egypt  had 
but  one  prehistoric  indigenous  type 
(aquiline],  long-faced  brachycephalic, 
prolo-Semilic  ( Zaborowski ) ;  Kollmana 
recognizes  four.  Z.  docs  not  admit  the 
enislence  of  real  brachycephals  in  prehis- 
toric Egypt,  and  no  indigenous  broad- 
headed  race  ever  existed  there.  Chantre'a 
data  indicate  ■  continuity  of  Egyptian 
race  and  culture,  no  entire  foreign  stock 
having  ever  settled  in  Egypt  and  founded 
a  civilization  by  oppressing  or  destroying 
the  indigenes.  Although  owing  not  a 
little  Kt.  ^..obsidian,  copper,  etc)  to 
Asia,  the  Egyptians  were  essentially 
Africans.  The  pottery  and  ivory  marks 
of  Negada  may  be  connected  with  Libyan 
writing,  'iht  graffiti  also. 

ASIA 

AdAChi  ( B. }  Hfiuligeres  Vorkommen  des 
Musculus  stemalis  liei  Japanem.  (Z.  f. 
Morphol.  u.  Anthrop.,  Berlin,  I904, 
^'ll<  '3J'M'-)  The  muscle  in  question 
was  found  in  13.2  percent  of  1 29  corpses 
(European  percentage  is  3.2-5-3  per- 
cent) and  in  15  percen(  of  Joo  living 
individuals, 

(B.   und  V,)      Die    Fnssknochen 

derjapaner.  (Mitt.  d.  raed.  Fak.  d.  k.- 
Jap.  Univ.  Tokyo.  1905,  V(,  307-344, 
2  P''i  7  *ES-)  rhis  cKcellenl  study  by 
Dr  and  Mrs  Adachi  of  the  bones  of  the 
Japanese  foot  is  based  upon  a  selection  of 
the  feet  of  15  adult  Japanese  ( men  15, 
women  10)  and  of  10  adult  Europeans. 
Details  of  form,  measurements,  etc.,  of 
the  separate  bones  are  given.  Also 
biblii^aphy  of  subject.     The  foot-bones 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


553 


of  the  Japanese  in  general  are  smaller 
and  relatively  thicker  and  shorter  than 
those  of  Europeans.  They  have  also 
more  marked  attachments  for  muscles, 
etc.,  and  larger  and  more  curved  articu- 
lar surfaces ;  some  of  these  are  culture- 
deformities.  The  European  foot  (due 
to  the  shoe,  etc.)  is  stiffer,  and  the  first 
and  second  toes  much  less  mobile  (every 
adult  Japanese  can  use  these  more  or 
less).     Many  minor  differences  exist. 

Becker  (C.  H.)  Islam.  (A.  f.  Religsw., 
Lpzg.,  1904,  VIII,  129-143.)  Brief 
critical  reviews  of  numerous  recent 
(1902-1904)  books  and  articles  relating 
to  various  aspects  of  Mohammedanism  ; 
General,  life  of  Mohammed,  Koran  and 
tradition,  etc.,  orthodoxy,  law  and 
ethics,  dogma,  mysticism,  heterodoxy, 
heathen  substrate. 

Birkner  ( F. ).  BeitrSge  zur  Rassenatomie 
der  Chinesen.  (Corr.-Bl.  d.  Deutschen 
Ges.  f.  Anthrop.,  MUnchen,  1904, 
XXXV,  144-148,  7  fgs.)  Gives  results 
of  examination  of  six  heads  of  Chinese, 
(three  with  respect  to  facial  muscula- 
ture), with  X-rays,  plaster  cast,  lead 
wire  for  profile,  etc.  Three  heads  show 
marked  variation  in  facial  muscles  as 
compared  with  the  European  ;  the  Chi- 
nese face  is  also  flat.  The  highest  point 
of  the  cheek-bone  in  Chinese  is  farther 
from  the  ear-nose  line  than  in  Euro- 
peans, and  lies  also  farther  forward. 
More  details  are  given  in  the  author's 
kabilitationschrift  on  the  same  subject 
(1904). 

Bracht  (E. )  Ueber  datierbare  Silexge- 
r&te  aus  den  TUrkisminen  von  Maghara 
in  der  Sinaihalbinsel.  (Z.  f.  Ethnol., 
Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii,  173-188,  2  pi. ) 
Gives  results  of  the  examination  of  650 
flints  found  in  1880-1881  at  the  tur- 
quoise mines  of  Maghara  in  the  Sinai 
peninsula.  According  to  B.  these  flints 
were  used  to  mine  turquoise  by  the  Egyp- 
tians of  the  time  of  Rameses  II,  and  the 
abandonment  of  the  mines  soon  after  ( no 
inscription  of  his  son  and  successor, 
Merneptah,  occurs)  may  have  been  due 
to  the  exodus  of  the  Jews.  At  Mag- 
hara an  old  stone-age  industry  continued 
into  the  ages  of  metal.  Some  notes  by 
W.  Flinders  Petrie  are  appended  and 
discussed. 

Brandenburg  (E.j  Ueber  Kysylbasch- 
und  Jiiriikenddrfer  in  der  Gegend  des 
Turkmendag.     (Ibid.,  188-198, 10  fgs.) 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S..  7-37 


Treats  of  habitat  (Yuruks  nomadic, 
half-nomadic,  sedentary;  Kizilbash mostly 
in  villages),  dwellings  (often  richly  orna- 
mented with  wood-carvings),  clothing, 
burials,  religion,  personal  habits,  etc.,  of 
the  Kizilbash  and  Yuruks  of  the  Turk- 
mendag, visited  by  B.  in  1901-1904. 
Some  Kizilbash  have  settled  in  Bulgaria 
and  Rumania,  in  the  Maritza  valley 
particularly. 

Brown  (A.  J.)  Yuan  Shih  Kai.  (So. 
Wkmn.,  Hampton,  Va.,  1905,  xxxiv, 
111-118. )  Sketch  of  the  viceroy  of 
Chih-li,  commander-in-chief  of  the 
Chinese  army  and  '*  the  most  powerful 
present  factor  in  the  policy  of  the  Chinese 
Empire,**  his  achievements,  etc. 

Comer  Ohlmfitz  (Caroline).  Heathen 
rites  and  superstitions  in  Ceylon. 
(Nineteenth  Cent.,  Lond.,  1905,  133 
flf. ).  Discusses  Sinhalese  belief  in 
demons,  in  hours  and  times  most  favor- 
able, when  they  in  turn  are  most  acces- 
sible (the  so-called  '<yama*'),  and  in 
bodily  conditions  propitious  for  obsession. 
Author  gives  dramatic  account  of  exorcis- 
ing of  a  demon  from  a  young  girl  fix>m 
near  Colombo.  Other  methods  having 
failed  she  was  taken  to  a  temple  (near 
Candy)  of  the  powerful  evil  demon 
Dewiyo,  where  the  priest  succeeds,  aided 
by  votive  offerings  and  corporal  punish- 
ment upon  the  girl. 

Fischer  (A.)  Ueber  die  Kachin  im 
ftussersten  Norden  und  Nordosten  von 
Birma.  (Corr.-Bl.  d.  Deutschen  Ges. 
f.  Anthrop.,  Miinchen,  1904,  xxxv, 
123-126.)  Treats  of  habitat,  physical 
characters  (cross  with  Tareng),  spirit- 
worship,  offerings  to  thunder-god,  artistic 
posts  of  altar-place  to  which  sacrificial 
cattle  are  tied,  augury  from  entrails, 
dwellings  (large  and  rather  clean),  mar- 
riage and  family  (polygamy  and  bride- 
stealing  rare,  in  the  latter  case  the 
bride  is  dragged  through  an  improvised 
''jungle**),  clothing  and  ornament 
(peculiar  <* ear-rings,'*  and  hiprings), 
division  of  labor  (husband  "does  field 
work),  graves  and  funeral  ceremonies. 
The  Kachin  present  possibilities  of  a 
higher  culture. 

Fran^oia  (C.  H. )  Notes  sur  les  Lo-lo  du 
Kien-Tchang.  (Bull.  Soc.  d*Anthr.  de 
Paris,  1904,  v«  s.,  v,  637-647,  4  fgs.) 
Describes  situation,  relation  to  Chinese 
government,  physical  characters,  cloth- 
ing, personal  habits  (baths  abhorred). 


554 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


dwellings,  family  (monogamy  general], 
attitude  toward  foreigners  (only  Chinese 
hated),  etc.,  of  the  Lo-Io,  aboriginal 
people  of  the  Kien-Tchang  region, 
known  to  the  Chinese  as  '<Man-Tsen,'' 
a  term  of  opprobrium.  Chinese  man- 
darin rule  has  not  improved  the  Lo-lo. 

Harris  (J.  R. )  Notes  from  Armenia,  in 
illustration  of  The  Golden  Bough,  ( Folk- 
Lore,  Lond.,  1904,  XV,  427-446.)  Cites 
items  in  support  of  Mr  Frazer's  argu- 
ments, from  various  parts  of  Armenia. 
The  topics  considered  are  :  Annual  rain- 
charm  (all  over  Armenia),  occasional 
rain-charm  (Turk  pebble-charm,  etc.), 
Armenian  Candlemas,  animal  sacrifices, 
sin-eating,  foundation  sacrifice,  offering 
of  the  first-fruits,  holy  trees,  curious 
child-birth  customs. 

Hartlaiid  ( E.  S. )  A  votive  offering  from 
Korea.  (Ibid.,  447-450,  i  pi.)  Brief 
account  of  cast-iron  '*  tiger  ''  from  shrine 
on  topof  Charyong  Pass,  south  of  Gensan, 
with  ntoes  on  Korea  religious  ideas. 

Hollwig  (A.)  Die  jUdischen  Freistftdte 
in  ethnologische  Beleuchtung.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  213-216.) 
Discusses  the  counterparts  of  the  Jewish 
"city  of  refuge**  (form,  content,  pur- 
pose of  right  of  refuge)  in  Africa  ( Abys- 
sinians,  Kabyles,  Gold  coast)  and  other 
regions  of  the  globe.  H.  concludes  that 
**  there  is  no  trait  in  the  Jewish  city  of 
refuge  idea  that  is  not  to  be  found  some- 
where else  in  the  world.**  The  general 
subject  has  been  treated  by  the  author  in 
his  Das  Asylrecht  der  Natun>blker  ( Ber- 
lin, 1903). 

Karutz  (R. )  Von  den  Bazaren  Turke- 
stans.  ( Ibid.  ,312-317,  329-333,  8  fgs. ) 
Describes  bazaars  in  Bokhara,  Tashkend, 
Samarkand,  and  Kokand,  the  articles 
sold,  etc.  Among  liquids  tea  plays  the 
largest  rAle.  Tea  is  drunk  at  all  times 
and  seasons  from  morning  to  night. 

Kellner  (M.)  The  Hammurabi  code  and 
the  code  of  the  covenant.  (Rec.  of 
Past,  Wash.,  1905,  iv,  99-118,  5  fgs.) 
Comparative  study.  Professor  K.  con- 
cludes that  the  Hebrews  appropriated 
legal  provisions  as  well  as  legends  and 
institutions  from  the  ancient  Baby- 
lonians. Thus,  '  *  the  enactments  of  the 
old  Babylonian  king,  formulated  in  the 
twenty-third  century  B.C.,  passed  more 
than  1,000  years  later  into  the  Book  of 
the  Covenant,  and  so  became  the  heritage 
of  the  Hebrews  and  of  the  world.*' 


KOrtel  (A.)  Phrygisches.  (A.  f.  Re- 
ligsw.,  Lpzg.,  1904,  vm,  150-154.) 
R^sum^s  the  important  data  concerning 
ancient  Phrygian  religion  contained  in 
G.  and  A.  Kdrte*s  Gordion  (Berlin, 
1904),  based  on  excavations  carried  out 
in  the  summer  of  1900  at  Gordium. 

de  La  Mazelidre  ( M. )  L  *^volution  de 
la  famille  japonaise.  (Bull.  Soc.  d'An- 
thr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v«  s.,  v,  650-671.) 
Sketches,  after  the  Kojiki  (712  A.  D. ) 
and  subsequent  documents,  the  history  of 
the  family  in  Japan, —  the  civil  code  is 
also  analyzed  (pp.  665-670).  Of  prim- 
itive Japanese  society  almost  nothing  sur- 
vived, except  the  ancestor  cult.  In  the 
VI-VIII  centuries  Chinese  influences 
were  felt  and  under  Confucianism  mar- 
riage-forms became  fixed.  Shinto-Confii- 
cianism  and  Buddhism  also  modified 
customs,  etc.  Japanese  feudalism  and 
Bushido  had  their  effects  in  strengthening 
paternal  authority.  The  era  of  thinkers 
(eighteenth  century),  the  revolution  of 
the  nineteenth,  the  triumph  of  the 
Mikado,  and  the  impetus  to  individual 
emancipation  given  by  European  and 
American  contact,  are  other  important 
facts.  The  author  sees  reflected  in  the 
terms  of  the  Code  the  conflict  between 
the  communal  constitution  of  Japanese 
society  and  the  individualistic  influence  of 
European  civilization.  If  individualism 
wins,  the  civilization  of  Asia  will  one  day 
fuse  with  that  of  Europe  ;  otherwise, 
they  will  simply  influence  each  other 
much,  but  never  unite. 

▼on  Landau  ( — )  Ueber  pr3.historische 
Funde  unweit  Sidon  und  Gebeil,  Byblos. 
(Z.  f.  Ethnol.,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii, 
209-211.)  Describes  some  round  amu- 
let-stones from  Saida  and  the  Lebanon 
region,  and  a  celt,  in  form  resembling  the 
smaller  West  African  axes,  from  a  grave 
of  the  classic  period  at  Gebeil  (Byblos), 
—  buried  with  the  dead,  having  been 
also  used  as  an  amulet. 

Laufer  ( B. )  Zur  Geschichte  der  chines- 
ischen  Juden.  (Globus,  Brnschwg., 
1905,  Lxxxvii,  245-248.)  Discusses 
the  evidence  of  the  inscriptions  of  K*ai 
fong  fu  as  to  the  coming  of  Jews  to 
China,  where  they  were  found  (in 
Honan)  by  the  Jesuits  in  the  early  part 
of  the  eighteenth  century,  having  been 
there  for  centuries.  Dr  B.  derives  the 
Chinese  Jews  from  India,  and  thinks  that 
*  *  Judaism  is  not  older,  as  has  been  pre- 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


555 


viously  thought,  but  later  than  Islam  in 
China."  The  existence  of  a  colony  of 
Jews  in  Hong-Kong  and  Shanghai,  who 
speak  Arabic,  shows  the  same  condition 
of  affairs  as  in  the  ninth  century. 

Libbey  (W.)  Jerash.  (Rec.  of  Past, 
Wash.,  1905,  IV,  35-46,  10  4[s.)  Chap- 
ter from  Prof.  L' shook  The  Jordan  Val- 
ley and  Petra  (N.  Y.,  1 905  )  treating  of 
the  stupendous  ruins  of  Jerash  (Gerasu), 
<*  second  only  to  Palmyra  in  size  and 
importance,  and  second  only  to  Baalbec 
in  beauty  of  arch  i  tecture. ' '  A  Circassian 
colony  has  settled  here  and  built  in- 
scribed stones  into  their  lintels  and  door- 
posts, likewise  clearing  spaces  for  farms 
among  the  ruins. 

Lorenzen  (A. )  Die  chinesiche  Weltkarte 
Ferdinand  Verbicsts  von  1674.  (Glo- 
bus, Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvn,  157- 
159.)  Notes  on  the  history  of  the  cartog- 
raphy of  China  and  Verbiest's  map  of 
1674. 

Marquand  ( A. )  The  facade  of  the  tem- 
ple of  Apollo  near  Miletus.  (Rec.  of 
Past,  Wash.,  1905,  iv,  3-15,  10  fgs.) 
Discusses  various  theories  (  Rayet,  Haus- 
soullier,  Wernicke).  Prof.  M.  con- 
siders Haussoullier's  theory  the  most 
reasonable  and  concludes  that  the  entire 
facade,  consisting  of  foundations,  col- 
umns, and  entablatures,  belongs  to  one 
building  period  ca,  150  B.  C. 

P.  Die  Stadt  Mangaseja  und  das  Man- 
gasejische  Land.  (Globus,  Bmschwg., 
1905,  Lxxxvii,  222-223. )  R^sum^s  a 
recent  article  by  Anutchin  in  the  Zemle- 
vidinje^  where  the  name  Mangaseja  is 
discussed  in  detail,  —  variants  are  Mol- 
gomzey,  Molgonjej,  Mangonseja,  Mun- 
gasej,  etc.  The  word  may  signify  **  those 
living  at  the  outer  edge,''  a  term  describ- 
ing the  Yuraks  in  their  relation  to  the 
Samoyeds. 

Prince  ( J.  D. )  and  Law  ( R. )  The  Pier- 
pont  Morgan  Babylonian  axe-head.  (J. 
Amer.  Orient.  Soc.,  N.  Y.,  1905, 
XXVIII,  93  if.)  Discusses  Babylonian 
{ca.  30CX>-2300  B.  C. )  votive  axe-head 
made  of  agate  in  layers,  with  dedi- 
catory inscription  on  obverse  side,  now 
in  the  Tiffany  gem  collection  of  the 
American  Museum,  New  York.  It  is 
perforated  for  a  handle. 

R6B8ler  ( £. )  Bericht  ttber  archftologische 
Ausgrabungen  in  Transkaukasien.  (Z. 
f.  Ethnol.,  Berlin,   1905,  xxxvii,  114- 


151,  119  fgs.)  Gives  results  of  excava- 
tions of  14  graves  on  the  left  bank  of  the 
Kotchar,  north  of  Bajan,  and  a  kurgan 
containing  18  on  the  right  bank  to  the 
south  (with  descriptions  of  urns  and 
other  ceramic  remains  in  particular)  dur- 
ing February  and  April,  1 90 1.  The 
graves  belong  to  the  bronze-iron  period 
and  are  chiefly  chest-graves.  Among 
the  objects  found  are  :  Arrow  and  spear 
points,  needles,  beads,  rings,  bracelets, 
knives,  daggers,  shells,  ornaments  and 
other  objects  of  ^r^/aifr.  'Y\il^  kurgan 
seems  to  have  been  a  family  burial  place. 
Marking-stones  of  a  phallic  sort  might 
indicate  the  graves  of  males.  Altogether 
these  graves  suggest  comparison  with 
those  of  Helenendorf,  though  the  mode 
of  construction  is  different,  and  are  prob- 
ably contemporaneous  with  the  chief 
group  of  the  latter,  and  belong  to  the 
end  of  the  later  Caucasian  bronze  period, 
ca,  (lioo  B.  C.  The  graves  belong  to  an 
Arjran  people,  perhaps,  as  the  form  of 
skull,  head-dress,  etc.,  suggest  the 
ancestors  of  the  present  Haik  population 
of  Bajan. 

Schmidt  (H.)  Troja-Mykene-Ungam. 
(Ibid.,  1904,  XXXVI,  890--891 ).  Addi- 
tional notes  and  corrections  to  article 
reviewed  in  American  Anthropologist. 

Schwally  (F.)  Zur  Heiligenverehrung 
im  modemen  Islam  Syriens  und  Nord- 
afrikas.  (A.  f.  Religsw.,  Lpzg.,  1904, 
VIII,  85-96).  Treats  of  saint- worship 
and  sanctuaries  in  Syria  and  northern 
Africa.  In  the  former  female  saints  are 
few  ;  in  the  latter  very  numerous,  a  fact 
connected  with  the  position  of  woman  as 
prophet  and  magician  from  time  imme- 
morial among  the  Berbers.  The  number 
of  sanctuaries  is  enormous,  and  survivals 
from  older  heathendom  are  seen  in  the 
sacred  trees,  springs,  and  other  natural 
objects.  In  Syria  both  Christians  and 
Mohammedans  visit  the  shrines,  and 
some  Christian  characters,  like  Simon 
Stylites,  Sergius  and  Thekla,  are  included 
among  the  saints  of  Islam.  Jewish  and 
Christian  renegades  sometimes  turn 
marabouts.  These  saints  serve  some 
useful  purposes  as  peace-makers,  and 
they  afford  refuge  to  fugitives  and  help 
the  robbed  and  the  injured,  sick,  etc. 
The  folk-belief  in  them  is  great  and 
abiding. 

Shearme'CD.)    The  shwe-hmu,  or  Bur- 
mese   taxgather.     (Folk- Lore,     Lond., 


556 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


1904,  XV,  334-335-)  Brief  account  of 
omce  and  procedure.  The  shwe-kmu 
also  acts  as  judge,  arbiter,  etc.  Whoever 
in  fair  fighting  (use  of  iron  prohibited) 
was  able  to  deprive  the  shwe-hmu  of  his 
scales  (the  insignia  of  office)  succeeded 
him,  —  stealing  and  fraud  were  excluded. 
If  the  claimant  failed  he  was  fined. 

Starr  (F. )  The  hairy  Ainu  of  Japan. 
(Iowa  J.  Hist.  &  Pol.,  Iowa  City,  1905, 
III,  423-427.)  Notes  on  history, 
houses,  etiquette,  bear  hunting  and  bear 
feast,  improvised  songs  (home-coming), 
physical  characteristics.  Prof.  S.  believes 
that  the  Ainu  who  are  <*  a  white  race,' ' 
were  once  the  sole  population  of  Japan, 
—  they  have  been  beaten  back,  like  the 
Indians  in  America.  They  are  not  the 
ancestors  of  the  Japanese. 

Vollers  (  K. )  Die  Symbolik  des  Mash  in 
den  semitischen  Sprachen.  (A.  f.  Re- 
ligsw.,  Lpzg.,  1904,  VIII,  97-103).  In 
ritual  maskf  —  the  root  is  common 
Semitic, — is  identical  with  the  ''wash- 
ing" before  prayer,  etc.  **  Rub,  stroke, 
salve,*'  etc.,  belong  also  here,  then 
**  bless,  praise."  From  the  nibbing 
away  of  a  physical  blemish  was  derived 
the  symbolic  use. 

Wright  (A.  R.)  Tibetan  prayer- wheels. 
(Folk-Lore,  Lond.,  1904,  XV,  332-333, 
I  pi. )  Brief  account  of  two  wheels  and 
prayers.  The  characters  in  which  the 
om  formula  is  embossed  are  ancient  In- 
dian ranja  of  the  seventh  century. 

Tibetan  drum  and  trumpet.     ( Ibid., 

333-334,  I  pi. )  Brief  notes  on  a  trum- 
pet made  of  the  human  thigh  bone  and  a 
drum  made  of  the  caps  of  two  skulls,  with 
their  bases  covered  with  human  skin. 
These  trumpets  are  made  with  elaborate 
incantations,  and  preferably  from  the 
bones  of  criminals  or  those  who  have 
died  by  violence. 

Wright  (T.  F.)  The  tombs  of  Gezer. 
(Rec.  of  Past,  Wash.,  1905,  iv,  79-82, 
3  fgs. )  Brief  account  of  the  results  of 
Macalister's  excavations  in  the  ruins  of 
Tell  Jezar  (the  Gezer  of  the  Bible)  near 
Jaffa,  —  tombs  of  the  pre- Israelites,  who 
use  caves  both  for  dwelling  and  burial 
purposes  ;  later  ( Israelite )  rock  tombs, 
containing,  among  other  relics  Assyrian 
seals,  Egyptian  scarabs,  etc.  ;  tombs  of 
the  Maccabean  period  ;  Christian  tombs 
with  great  quantities  of  lamps  (some  with 
Greek  inscriptions). 


Zaborowiki  (S.)  Collection  d'objets  de 
toilette  et  autres  du  sud  de  la  Chine. 
(Bull.  Soc.  d'Anthr.  de  Paris,  1904,  v* 
s.,  V,  632-633.)  Brief  notes  on  toilet 
objects,  etc.  (pillows,  couch,  shoes, 
hats,  compass,  flint  and  steel),  from  the 
province  of  Kwang-Hsi,  in  southern 
China,  presented  to  the  society  by  M. 
Beauvais. 

INDONESIA,   AUSTRALIA, 
POLYNESIA 

Branco  (W.)  Ueber  die  fraglichen  fos- 
silen  menschlichen  Fusspuren  im  Sand- 
steine  von  Wamambool,  Victoria,  und 
andere  angebliche  Spuren  des  fossilen 
Menschen  in  Australien.  (Z.  £  Ethn., 
Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii,  162-172,  2  fgs.) 
R^sum^s data  concerning  the  "  human" 
foot-prints  in  the  Wamambool  sandstone 
and  other  alleged  traces  of  fossil  man  m 
Australia,  —  opinions  of  Archibald,  Als- 
berg,  McDowell,  Bucking,  Gregory,  etc. 
B.  concludes  that  *'the  foot-prints  are 
human,  but  very  narrow,"  and  that  the 
sandstone  is  old  and  not  "merely  a  few 
centuries  old,"  as  Wilser  suggested. 
The  Wellington  cave  human  molar  and 
the  marsupial  ( fossil )  bone  with  marks 
of  human  implement  are  considered 
genuine. 

Grabowsky  CF. )  Musikinstrumente  der 
Dajaken  SUdost  -  Bomeos.  ( Globus, 
Brnschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  102-105,  9 
fgs. )  Brief  descriptions  of  kettle-drums 
[^garantong^y  and  its  melodies, — the 
chief  pieces  in  Dajak  orchestras,  —  drums 
proper  (gandang)^  and  the  drum-like 
gambang  and  bisak  betong.  Of  stringed 
instruments  there  are  the  rabap  ox  gara- 
dap  (borrowed  from  the  Malays),  which 
is  played  with  a  bow  ;  the  kanjapi^ 
somewhat  resembling  the  violin  ;  the 
gandang  batooi.  Of  wind  instruments  the 
sarunai  (clarinet),  borrowed  from  the 
Malays ;  the  flute ;  a  hunter's  whistle  ; 
the  garodcy  a  sort  of  oboe.  Both  adults 
and  children  use  a  **  jew's-harp.** 

Gregory  (J.  W. )  The  antiquity  of  man 
in  Victoria.  (Proc.  R.  Soc.  Vict.,  Mel- 
bourne, 1904,  N.  s.,  XVII,  pi.  I,  130- 
133. )  Discusses  among  other  things  the 
Wamambool  **  human  "  footprints.  G. 
thinks  it  possible  they  are  human, — they 
may  be  wind-sports, —  but,  with  others, 
gets  from  them  the  impression  of  shody 
not  naked  feet.  The  bone-find  of  Bun- 
inyong   he   regards  as   accidental.     G 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


557 


considers  that  man  b  a  comparatively 
recent  inhabitant  of  Victoria,  and  was  in 
no  sense  there  in  earlier  geological 
periods. 

JEUferland  (R. )  Ueber  einen  Scbftdel 
mit  einem  Processus  asteriacus.  (Z.  f. 
Ethnol.,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii,  207-208, 
I  pi. )  Describes  brieifly  a  Fijian  (male  ?) 
skull  with  a  well-marked  process  aster- 
iacusj  a  peculiarity  not  rare  among 
Melanesians.  The  formation  is  probably 
atavistic. 

HAgeii(B. )  Neu-Guinea.  (Corr.-Bl.  d. 
Deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anthrop.,  1905, 
XXXVI,  22-23. )  R^sum^  of  address  be- 
fore Wiesbaden  Anthropological  Society. 
The  Papuas  are  the  primitive  type,  or  a 
primitive  type  of  man.  Two  different 
varieties  of  Papuas  (one  mostly  coastal) 
exist,  but  the  women  of  the  two  varieties 
differ  little.  Family  and  social  life  are 
briefly  considered. 

HolmM  (J.  H.)  Introductory  notes  to 
the  study  of  the  totemism  of  the  Elema 
tribes,  Papuan  gulf.  (Man,  Lond., 
1905, 2-6,  I  fg. )  Discusses  ttibal  organ- 
ization, marriage-laws,  land-tenure,  indi- 
vidual rights,  tribal  obligations.  Accord- 
ing to  H.,  totem  kinship  has  *<  a  greater 
influence  on  the  moral  life  **  of  the  Elema 
tribes  than  conjugal  or  parental  relation- 
ship. This  influence  of  totemism  is  far- 
reaching,  restrictive  and  preventive. 

How«U  (W.)  a»</Shellord  (R.)  A  Sea- 
Dyak  love  philtre.  (J.  Anthr.  Inst, 
Lond.,  1904,  XXXIV,  207-210.)  De- 
scribes briefly  Ajayan  (love  philter)  ob- 
tained from  a  S^-Dyak  woman,  with 
native  texts  and  English  translations  of 
two  typical  incantations.  Also  incanta- 
tion uttered  by  a  woman  who  wishes  to 
become  attractive  to  men.  The  basis  of 
all  jay  an  is  "  coco-nut  oil,  which  must 
be  made  by  a  girl  who  has  not  yet  ar- 
rived at  the  age  of  puberty."  Other 
ingredients,  e,  g.y  the  tears  of  a  female 
porpoise  (very  potent),  may  be  added. 
A  needle  in  the  stopper  represents  sym- 
pathetic magic. 

KUattch  (H.)  Ubersicht  Qber  den  bis- 
herigen  Verlauf  und  die  Errungenschaf- 
ten  meiner  Reise  in  Australien  bis  Ende 
September  1904.  (Z.  f.  Ethnol.,  Ber- 
lin, XXXVII,  211-213. )  Notes,  among 
other  things,  discovery  at  King's  creek 
of  stone  implements  with  pieces  of  fossil 
bones  with  evidence  of  human  working ; 


frontal  bone  of  a  new-bom  child  at 
Princess  Charlotte  bay,  with  Arms  su- 
praorbiialis  suggesting  the  Neanderthal 
skull.  Dr  K.  made  many  observations 
and  measurements  of  the  natives,  col- 
lected specimens,  etc. 

Krlm«r  ( A. )  Das  neue  Kolonialalphabet 
in  seiner  Anwendung  auf  die  Sttdsee. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,-  Lxxxvn, 
293-295.^  Discusses  the  new  alphabet 
adopted  oy  the  Colonial  Department  of 
the  German  government  for  the  spelling 
and  pronunciation  of  geographic  names, 
and  severely  criticizes  some  of  the  items. 

Lunpert  ( — . )  Melanesien.  ( Corr.  -Bl. 
d.  Deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anthrop.,  Mfln- 
chen,  1904,  XXXV,  59-60.)  Notes  on 
physical  characteristics,  culture,  etc.  Up 
to  the  period  of  contact  with  tiie  Euro- 
peans the  Melanesians  were  still  in  the 
stone  age.  The  most  marked  feature  of 
their  culture  is  love  of  ornament ;  an- 
other is  an  impulsive  spirit  of  adventure. 

Lang  (A.)  All-fathers  in  Australia.  (Folk- 
lore, Lond.,  1905,  XVI,  222-224.)  Dis- 
cusses views  of  Howitt  and  Hartland. 
Author  considers  that  in  associating  the 
All-father  belief  with  advance  in  social 
organization,  **  Mr.  Howitt  has  over- 
looked his  own  valuable  collection  of 
social  facts.*' 

Laich  (R.)  Gregory  ttber  die  ftltesten 
Spuren  des  Mensdien  in  Australien. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii, 
90-91.)  R^sum^s  the  article  of  J.  W. 
Gregory  (q.  v.). 

Maa88  (— .)  Ta  k&-k&i-kfti  Tabu.  Ein 
Beitrag  zur  vergleichenden  Kenntnis  der 
Malaio-Polynesier.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin, 
1905,  XXXVII,  153-162. )  Describes  the 
ta  kd-kdi'kdi(''ii  is  forbidden"),  the 
first  and  foremost  <Maw"  of  the  Men- 
tawi  islanders  off  the  coast  of  Sumatra, 
and  *<a  terrible  moral  weapon  against 
the  foreigner."  The  Mentawi  custom 
is  compared  with  the  Sumatran  —  Malay 
pantang^  Madagascar  fadi^  Dayak 
uhum^  Micronesian  ugul^  and  the  Polyne- 
sian tabu  with  its  varieties.  The  origin 
of  these  customs  is  due  to  the  mental 
constitution  of  the  Malayo-Polynesians 
and  their  peculiar  psychological  con- 
sciousness. Their  fulfilment  of  the  law 
of  impulse  is  here  represented. 

Mathews  (R.  H.)  The  Wiradyuri  and 
other  languages  of  New  South  Wales. 
(J.  Anthr.  Inst.,  Lond.,  1904,  xxxiv. 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


SS8 

3S4-3DS. )  Brief  gnmmatick]  tketcbei 
of  \Vind711ri,  Burrels-biirreb*,  and 
Nsniun],  with  Tocabalujei  of  430 
wonU  in  Windjruri  and  390  m  Nguaa- 
w>l,  cUwiticd  uodcT  ategaries  of  Cunily 
tenu,  parti  of  Ibc  body,  natatal  objects, 
■nimali,  tied  and  plaot^  weapon*,  adjec- 
tives, Terba.  The  Wiradyuri  ji  more 
widapresd  than  any  other  tongue  in 
New  South  Wales.  These  langoages 
hare  double  fonns  of  the  Gist  person, 
dual  and  plural,  for  every  inflected  part  , 
of  speech. 
HORil  (Margaretta)  Harvest  godi  of 
the  Land  Dyaks  of  Bomea  (J.  Amer. 
Orient.  Soc,  N.  Y.,  1905,  xxviii,  165 
ff. )  Enumerates  supernatural  beings, 
lords  of  agriculture,  of  sun,  moon  and 
stars.  Also  the  supreme  being  Tuppa 
(an  agglomeration  or  accretion  of  func- 
tions) is  discussed.  These  snpematuial 
beings,  with  two  human  potentates  are 
invoked  for  a  blessing  on  the  lice-Geldi. 
Miss  M.  regards  Tupps  as  a  projection  of 
the  change  in  the  Dyaks'  natures  from 
ferocity  and  canning  to  the  peaceful  co- 
operation necessaiy  to  successful  agricul- 
ture. The  philosophy  of  the  gods  of  the 
field  is  somewhat  abstiuse. 
Hkawanhtili  (A.  W. )  Kimsl  und 
Kunstsinn  bei  den  Bahan  und  KCnja- 
Dajak.  (Corr.-Bl.  d.  Deatschen  Gea. 
f.  Antbrop.,  MUnchcn,  1904,  xxxv,  82- 
84. )  Discusses  the  srt,  art-motives,  and 
art  products  of  the  Bahau  and  Kenyah 
Dayaks  of  Borneo.  Many  motives  are 
of  religious  origin,  end  the  human 
genital  organs  have  served  as  models 
for  a  long  series  of  beautiful  omamenls, 
foi  use  in  adornment  of  bouses  in  par- 
ticular. Children  seem  to  receive  no 
special   instruction,    but    the    advent    of 

Cuberty  and  Ihe  period  of  courting  slimu- 
ile  bothseics  Hrtistically,—  youths  carve 
presents  for  maidens  and  the  latter  make 
ornaments    for    the    former.      Both  men 
and  women,  more  luo,  carry  on  artistic 
work,  bul  icw  to  a  very  high  degree, 
the  best  workers  being  individuals  hav- 
ing  Ihe   necessary  leisure,  members   of 
Ihe  families  of  chiefs,  i 
motives  arc  often  used  to  decorate  very 
different  objects,   and    for  a  many-sided    '1 
art  there  is  a  seeming  poverty  of  motive,     ■ 
Convention aliiatton  gives  play  to    Iheii    . 
fancy,      Dr  N,  thinks  thai,   for  various    i 
reasons.  Dayak  art  has  degenerated  here,    I 
— the  introduction  of  foreign  materials  has 
influenced  greatly  the  art  and  industries   j 


(W, )  Native  itoiici  &an  Srate 
Cnu  and  Reef  islanda.  (J.  Anthr. 
InsL,  Lond,,   1904,  xxxiv,   333-X33.) 

English  texts  of  brief  tales  coDccnung  : 
Sickness,  death,  marriage,  food,  ami  aod 
moon,  canoe -building,  broken  (bod,  sou 
and  nin,  white  folk  (ipiriti),  laf»,  ixz- 
selves,  an  old  man  and  wcanan,  bol7 
stones,  —  from  Santa  Crui ;  aod  baai 
Reef  islands  concerning  Lata  and  Sin- 
ota,  the  volcano  Tinakula,  a  traditiaa  of 
Nukapu,  spirits,  the  dead.  Chose  who  die 
of  arrow  wounds,  a  great  ^lirit  called 
Thaumaka,  abundance  of  food.  And 
two  longer  tales  from  Reef  iaUnd*: 
Aboat  a  certain  woman,  and  coDceining 
a  man  who  ate  human  flesh,  and  ■  ytxj 
big  pig. 
PuUhmhi  (  R.  )  Ein  Besnch  anf  den 
AdmiralitlCsiDselD.  (Ibid.,  338.)  Brief 
notes  of  visit  to  chief  island  in  December, 
1904.  To  the  Moanns  (sea&rers  and 
GsbermeB ;  pile-dwellings)  and  Usai 
(in  the  interior,  agriculturalists),  runst 
be  added  now  the  Mataokor,  or  Hanit- 
kol  (agriculture,  leabmng,  fishing, 
canoe- builders,  woodworkers).  P.  saw 
the  making  of  the  obsidian  swords.  The 
Mataokor  are  smaller  and  lighter  than 
the  Moanus  and  Usiai.  The  anthor's 
party  took  the  first  phoCogtaphs  ai  women 
on  the  island. 
Blggl  (A,  S.)  The  drama  of  the  Filipi- 
nos, {J.  Amer.  Folk-lore,  Boitoa, 
1904,  XVII,  279-385.)  Treats  briefly  of 
Filipino  plays  and  poems  :  Prehistoric 
(before  1511),  religious  (from  1521  to 
present  lime),  Moro-Moro,  middle  pe- 
riod (l750-lS76and  to  the  present  day). 

The  Moro-Moro  plays,  reciting  the  strug- 
gles of  the  Christian  against  the  Moham- 
medan Filipinos,  are  interesting  and 
important  for  the  study  of  native  char- 
acter. Atypical  Moro-Moro  is  "  Mag- 
dapio,  or  Fidelity  Rewarded,"  by  P.  A, 
Palemo ;  a  representative  anti-Ameri- 
can play  is  "  Hindi  Aco  Patay  (I  am  not 
dead)"  by  Juan  M.  Cruz.  The  ^cial 
recognition  of  the  theater  in  the  mlip- 
pines  did  not  occur  till  1S36. 
Seidel  (H. )  Die  Bewohner  der  Tobi-In- 
sel,  Deutsch-Westmikronesien-  (Globus, 
Broschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  113-117.) 
Discusses  briefly  habitat  name,  physio 
diaracters,  food  (coconut  chief  item),  fire. 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


559 


making  (friction),  dwellings  and  wood- 
working, textile  industries,  clothing  and 
ornament,  tattooing  (no  untattooed  per- 
son can  approach  holy  places),  tabu, 
weapons,  canoes,  contact  with  whites,  etc. 
The  natives  of  Tobi  arc  of  a  lighter  color 
than  those  of  5)onsoI,  Pul,  and  Merir. 

Sen£ft  (A.^  Ueber  die  Tfttowierung  der 
West-Mikronesier.  (Ibid.,  174-175,  3 
fgs. )  Brief  account  of  tattooing  on  the 
island  of  Yap,  where  it  was  introduced 
some  100  years  ago  from  the  island  of 
Ululsi. 

Seurat  ( L.  G. )  Sur  les  anciens  habitants 
de  rile  Pitcaim,  PaciBque  Sud.  (L*  An- 
thropologic, Paris,  1904,  XV,  369-372, 
14  fgs.)  Describes  petroglyphs  and 
stone  axes,  etc.  Other  remains  of  pre- 
European  inhabitants,  —  mara^  human 
skulls,  etc.,  have  been  found.  Their 
discovery  astonished  the  mutineers  of  the 
Bounty. 

▼on  den  Steinen  (K. )  Proben  einer 
friiheren  polynesischen  Geheimsprache. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii, 
1 1 9- 1 2 1.)  Describes,  with  word-list,  a 
secret  language,  eo  uhiua  ( <*  language 
concealing  the  back,  i.  e.y  surface''),  in 
use  among  the  Hapaa  of  Nukuhiva,  the 
principal  one  of  the  northern  Marquesas 
islands,  now  reduced  to  a  few  individ- 
uals. The  chief  item  is  the  exchange  of 
consonants  (in  quadrisyllables  the  first 
half  only  is  touched,  A'wy^whiva  ■=  Kunu- 
hiva).  Examples:  eti  (small)  becomes 
kihi^  ouoho  (hair)  nouoo^  Taiohau 
(name  of  a  bay)  Hatiohal ;  meitai 
(good)  emiate,  etc.  Similar  processes 
have  been  reported  from  a  tribe  of  In- 
dian jugglers,  Herzegovinian  goat-herds, 
etc.,  by  Krauss  and  others.  Dr  von  den 
S.  considers  that  the  existence  of  a  simi- 
lar phenomenon  in  New  Zealand  suggests 
the  former  existence  of  a  widespread 
Polynesian  secret  language.  It  doubt- 
less had  its  practical  value  at  festivals, 
meetings  with  foreign  peoples,  etc. 

AMERICA 

Adam  (L. )  Grammaire  de  I'Accawai. 
(J.  de  la  Soc.  des Am6r.  de  Paris,  1905, 
N.  s.,  II,  43-89. )  First  part  of  a  gram- 
matical sketch  (gender,  number,  per- 
sonal pronouns,  postpositions  and  case-in- 
dices, verbal  adjectives  derived  from 
postpositions,  demonstratives  and  pro- 
nouns of  the  third  person,  nouns  of  num- 


ber and  collectives,  indefinite  pronouns 
and  adjectives,  interrogatives,  augmenta- 
tives  and  diminutives,  adverbs,  conjunc- 
tions), based  on  texts  (Genesis  in  part, 
St  Matthew,  etc. )  published  by  the  late 
Rev.  W.  H.  Brett  (missionary)  in  the 
Accawai  (Acav6i6)  a  Cariban  language 
of  Guiana. 

Aimea  (H.  H.  S.)  African  institutions  in 
America.  (J.  Amer.  Folk-lore,  Bos- 
ton, 1905,  xviii,  16-32.)  Treatsof  the 
<<  governor"  of  the  negro  communities 
in  New  England,  elections,  parades,  etc. 
These  inaugural  parades  may  have  ante- 
dated those  of  the  whites, —  such  cus- 
toms were  **  a  direct  survival  of  practices 
in  Africa  ;  fantastic  parades  in  all  parts 
of  Cuba,  Sunday  reunions  and  festivals 
( cabildos  of  each  *  *  tribe  " ) ;  *  *  societies  * ' 
for  dancing,  and  also  for  political  pur- 
poses, in  St  Lucia  (as  late  as  1844), 
<* kings"  and  '* queens"  in  Jamaica, 
etc.  The  influence  of  African  institu- 
tions in  the  French  West  Indies  was 
great,  and  the  author  seeks  to  show  that 
in  Haiti  the  government  of  Toussaint 
and  Christophe  was  really  African  in 
origin  —  they  had  a  clear  insight  into  the 
needs  and  peculiarities  of  their  people. 
The  actions  of  Soulouque  betray  also  the 
African  character. 

Barry  (P.)  Some  traditional  songs. 
(Ibid.,  49-59. )  Discusses  with  text  and 
music  four  traditional  songs  (The  Elfin 
Knight,  The  Ram  of  Darby,  The  Quak- 
er's Wooing,  The  Twelve  Days  of 
Christmas),  contained  in  Rosa  A.  Allen's 
Family  Songs  (Medfield,  Mass.,  1899^. 
They  have  been  traditional  in  this  family 
for  generations. 

Boas  ( F. )  tfif^  Wissler  ( C. )  Statistics  of 
growth.  (Rep.  U.  S.  Comm'r  Ed., 
Wash.,  1904  [1905],  25-132.)  Of 
this  valuable  monograph  the  greater 
part  consists  of  statistics  of  anthropo- 
metric data  obtained  in  1891  and  1892 
in  the  public  schools,  high  schools,  etc., 
of  Worcester,  Mass.  The  conclusions 
reached  are  of  profound  importance  for 
the  proper  understanding  of  the  phe- 
nomena of  child-growth.  Dr  Boas' 
earlier  assumption  of  *'  a  symmetrical 
distribution  of  variations  in  period  — 1.  e., 
of  accelerations  and  retardations  —  fol- 
lowing the  laws  of  chance,  giving  an 
adequate  explanation  of  the  characteris- 
tics of  the  observed  curves  of  growth," 
is  confirmed.     As  a  result  it  follows  that 


S6o 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


''  the  developmental  stage  of  a  child  at  a 
certain  period  depends  primarily  on  phe- 
nomena of  retardation  and  acceleration, 
which  influence  the  whole  body  at  the 
same  time,  so  that  all  measurements 
should  show  a  tendency  to  vary  in  the 
same  direction  ;  either  all  of  them  would 
tend  to  lag  behind  the  normal  average, 
or  all  would  be  in  advance  of  it/'  This 
would  tend  to  overturn  the  rather  wide- 
spread view  that  ''during  a  period  of 
energetic  physical  growth  there  is  a  rest 
of  mental  development  and  vice  versa J*^ 
The  variations  of  social  groups  should 
follow  the  same  laws  as  those  of  indi- 
viduals. A  maximum  of  correlations 
occurs  during  the  periods  of  most  rapid 
growth  and  a  sudden  drop  to  negative 
correlations  when  growth  is  nearly  com- 
pleted. The  interval  14-15  years  in 
boys  forms  the  dividing  line  between 
positive  and  negative  correlations. 

Boman  (E. )  Adan  Quiroga.  (J.  Soc. 
d.  Am6r.  de  Paris,  1905,  N.  s.,  ir,  139- 
140. )  Brief  appreciation  of  life  and 
works  of  A.  Quiroga  ( d.  at  Buenos  Aires, 
Nov.  10,  1904,  aged  40),  poet,  lawyer, 
politician,  criminologist,  archeologist, 
folklorist,  and  authority  on  Calchaqui. 
His  most  ambitious  volume  was,  perhaps, 
La  Cruz  en  America  ( 1901 ). 

Brady  (W.  J.)  The  faces,  jaws,  and 
teeth  of  the  Okoboji  mound  people  as 
indications  of  their  stage  of  development. 
(Iowa  J.  Hist.  &  Pol.,  Iowa  City,  1 905, 
III,  441-444. )  One  skull  exhibits  ''an 
immense  bifurcation  of  the  pre-molars, 
seeming  to  indicate  a  low  type."  In  the 
older  (lowest  in  mound)  skulls  the  teeth 
approximate  closely  the  modern  Cau- 
casian. In  the  case  of  the  uppermost  the 
bones  of  the  jaw,  rather  than  the  teeth, 
are  reduced  in  size.  One  shows  "  inten- 
sive white  characteristics."  The  bottom- 
most skulls  ••  represent  a  type  well  ad- 
vanced beyond  the  present  primitive  men 
and  the  lower  early  man." 

Breysig  ( K. )  Die  Entstehung  des  Staates 
aus  der  Geschlechterverfassung  bei  Tlin- 
kit  und  Irokesen.  (Schmoller's  Jahrb., 
Berlin,  1904,  xxviii,  45-89. )  Discusses 
the  origin  of  the  state  from  conditions 
found  among  the  Tlingit  of  Alaska  and 
the  Iroquois.  With  both  peoples  there 
is  a  mixing  of  divisions  according  to  fami- 
lies and  grouping,  and  according  to  locali- 
ties and  tribes, —  the  first,  B.  thinks, 
older,    the   second   having   arisen    from 


practical  needs.  The  first  "state"  ap- 
pears with  the  coalition  of  the  two  prim- 
itive families,  when  a  community  of  life 
is  substituted  for  a  community  of  blood. 

Ueber  die  Entstehung  des  Gottes- 


gedanken  insonderheit  bei  den  amerikani- 
schen  Urzeitvdlkem.  (Z.  f.  Ethnol., 
Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii,  216-221.)  Gives 
notice  of  monograph  on  origin  of  the  idea 
of  God  among  the  American  Indians, 
based  on  consideration  of  the  N.  W. 
Coast  natives,  particularly  the  Tlingit. 
With  the  latter  the  three  primitive  ele- 
ments—  beginnings  of  reverence  of  na- 
ture powers,  soul  and  spirit,  cult  priest- 
hood, sacred  legend,  —  are  still  separate. 
B.  criticises  Brinton's  concept  of  Iro- 
quoian  deities.  The  idea  of  God  is  not 
due  to  personification  of  nature  forces, 
but  springs  from  the  conception  of  animal 
or  human  personalities. 

Broda  (R.)  A  visit  to  Haiti.  (So. 
Wkmn.,  Hampton,  Va.,  1905,  xxxiv, 
285-290,  4  fgs.)  Brief  account  of  visit 
in  December,  1904.  Author  takes  rather 
optimistic  view  of  situation.  In  the  uni- 
versity and  colleges  of  Port  au  Prince 
"  the  professors  are  all  Haitians,  mostly 
graduates  of  the  University  of  Paris," 
and  "their  scientific  works  seem  to  me 
of  high  rank."  In  the  list  of  members 
of  the  International  Institute  of  Sociology 
are  three  Haitians,  Justin  Devot,  Massil- 
lon  Coicu,  and  Firm  in  Faure,  the  last 
once  candidate  for  President  of  Haiti. 

Brown  (C.  E. )  Wisconsin  caches. 
(Rec.  of  Past,  Wash.,  1905,  iv,  82-95, 
10  fgs. )  Gives  account  of  caches  of 
stone,  metal,  and  bone  implements,  etc., 
in  various  parts  of  the  state.  A  cache 
of  300  stone  implements  from  Dane  co. 
is  now  in  the  U.  S.  National  Museum. 
Mixed  caches  seem  to  be  uncommon. 
No  uniform  method  in  the  making  of  these 
caches  prevailed.  The  deposits  are 
sometimes  of  finished  implements  and 
sometimes  of  pieces  suitable  for  manu- 
facture. Leaf-shaped  flints  are  of  such 
frequent  occurrence  as  to  be  styled 
"cache  types." 

Curtis  (W.  C.)  The  basketry  of  the 
Caribs.  (So.  Wkmn.,  Hampton,  Va., 
1905,  XXXIV,  337-340,  3  fgs. )  Based 
on  accounts  of  Mason  and  Ober  with 
data  and  illustrations  from  Prof.  Lloyd, 
who  visited  Dominica  in  1903.  The 
Carib  baskets  are  said  to  resemble  those 
of  the  Louisiana  Chetimachans. 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL    LITERATURE 


561 


De  Charency  (Comte)  Le  Marquis  de 
Nadaillac.  (J.  Soc.  d.  Am^r.  de  Paris, 
I90S»  N.  s.,  II,  133-137. )  Sketch  of  life 
and  scientific  activities  with  list  of  pub- 
lished works,  1870-1904.  His  best 
known  volume  was  V  Amirique  pri- 
historique^  which  was  translated  into 
English. 

Dig^et  (L.)  Notes  d'arch^ologie  Mizteco- 
Zapot^ue :  Tumulus  et  camps  retranch^s. 
(Ibid.,  1 09- 1 16,  3  fgs.)  Describes 
briefly  the  pyramids  of  the  Cerro  de 
Cuta  and  La  Rinconada  and  the  mogofe 
(tumulus)  of  Ejutla,  etc., — all  funeral 
monuments,  at  the  same  time  sepulchers 
and  altars  of  a  cult  of  the  dead.  The 
most  imposing  are  doubtless  individual 
mausoleums.  These  tumuli  and  en- 
trenched camps  represent  one  aspect  of 
Mixtec-Zapotec  culture. 

Dn  Boi8  (C.  G. )  The  story  of  the  Chaup : 
A  myth  of  the  Dieguefios.  (J.  Amer. 
Folk-lore,  Boston,  1905,  xvii,  217- 
242. )  Gives  English  text,  with  snatches  of 
songs  in  native  tongues  passim^  of  the 
legend  of  Chaup  ('<the  name  for  shoot- 
ing star,  etc.''),  who  now  is  said  to  live 
in  the  San  Bernardino  mountains  with 
his  grandmother. 

Flom  (G.  T.)  The  coming  of  the  Nor- 
wegians to  Iowa.  (Iowa  J.  Hist.  & 
Pol.,  Iowa  City,  1905,  in,  347-383.  2 
maps.)  Contains  data  as  to  origin  of 
immigrant  groups,  migration,  etc.  North- 
eastern Iowa  has  always  been,  '*  educa- 
tionally and  culturally,  the  center  of  Nor- 
wegian influence  in  the  state.'' 

Fdratemann  ( E. )  Die  sp&testen  Inschriften 
der  Mayas.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
Lxxxvii,  272-273.)  F.  argues  that  a 
certain  inscription  from  Chichen-Itza 
bears  date  1 581  and  another  from  Sac- 
chan4  that  of  1582.  They  represent  per- 
haps a  temporary  renaissance  of  Mayan 
hopes,  due  perhaps  to  the  Netherlands 
revolution. 

Froideranx  (H. )  Un  pr^curseur  de 
I'Americanisme  ;  le  capitaine  Champion, 
1580.  (J.  Soc.  d.  Am^r.  de  Paris,  1905, 
N.  s.,  II,  163-164. )  Note  on  the  statement 
in  the  Calendar  of  State  Papers  (West 
Indies  and  America,  vol.  I,  1 5  74-1660, 
p.  1-2)  that  a  certain  Capt.  Champion, 
of  Havre-de-Gr&ce,  had  bought  from  one 
David  Ingram  for  1 00  pieces  of  silver 
an  <*  ancient  "  or  war-flag  of  the  Indians 
of  the  river  May  in  Florida. 


Fuller  ( Grace  P. )  The  Sen  Indians.  ( So. 
Wkmn.,  Hampton,  Va.,  1 905,  xxxiv, 
271-278,  4  fgs.)  Based  on  McGee. 
Treats  briefly  of  habitat,  physical  char- 
acters, houses,  clothing,  food,  pottery, 
implements,  balsas,  government,  mar- 
riage, etc.  The  Seri  are  one  of  the  lowest 
tribes  of  American  aborigines. 

Heitmflller  ( Dr)  Nordamerikanische 
Pfeilspitzen.  (Corr.-Bl.  d.  Deutschen 
Ges.  f.  Anthrop.,  Miinchen,  1904,  xxxv, 
46. )  Brief  note  on  flint  arrowheads  from 
near  Lafayette.  Dr  H.  distinguishes  3 
types. 

Hepner  (H.  E.)  The  Cora  Indians  of 
Mexico.  (So.  Wkmn.,  Hampton,  Va., 
1905,  XXXIV,  92-99,  3  fgs.)  Treats 
briefly  of  physical  appearance,  houses, 
religion,  legend  accounting  for  rough 
character  of  country,  occupations  and 
industries,  family,  fasting  and  prayer  (to 
'<  Master  of  the  Mountain  "),  adoration 
of  stones  and  rocks  (their  ancestors), 
dances,  etc.  (ceremonial  of  ''mother 
bowl,"  prayer  to  morning  star).  Nom- 
inally Christians,  the  Cora  retain  much 
of  their  old  heathen  faith.  They  have 
also  avoided  some  of  the  vices  of  the 
whites. 

Hewett  (E.  L. )  Government  supervision 
of  historic  and  prehistoric  ruins.  ( Sci- 
ence, N.  Y.,  1905,  U.S.,  XX,  722-727.) 
Prints  correspondence  with  Commissioner 
of  General  Land  Office,  Commissioner  of 
Indian  Affairs,  and  Chief  of  the  Bureau 
of  American  Ethnology  concerning  the 
preservation  of  ruins.  Professor  H.  ap- 
proves the  bill  of  Commissioner  Richards 
of  the  Land  Office. 

The  last  survivor  of  the  extinct  pueblo 


of  Pecos.  (Rec.  of  Past,  Wash.,  1905, 
IV,  54-57,  I  fg.)  Condensed  by  the 
author  from  the  American  Anthropolo- 
gist, 1904. 

Hill-Tont  (C.)  Ethnological  report  on 
the  Stsee^lis  and  Sk*aAlits  tribes  of  the 
HalOkme^lem  division  of  the  Salish  of 
British  Columbia.  (J.  Anthr.  Inst., 
Lond.,  1904,  XXXIV,  311-376.)  Treats 
of  tribal  history,  sociology ;  marriage, 
puberty ;  mortuary,  birth,  and  naming 
customs ;  food- tabus  and  restrictions, 
suliaism,  hereditary  totems,  dances,  re- 
ligious ideas,  shamanism,  dwellings, 
household  utensils,  dress,  cardinal  points, 
winds,  the  year,  linguistics  (numerals, 
personal  pronouns),  myths  and  traditions 


S62 

fp^M  336-362  ;  English  text!  of  right 
tales,  native  text  with  interlineai  uid 
free  tcanslatiOD  of  one  for  the  .Stscelis  ; 
and,  for  the  Sk-aalits,  tribal  historj  and 
legends,  native  texts,  interlinear  and 
free  English  renderings  of  four  l^ends  — 
also  Salish  Paler  Nosier  from  Mengarini 
and  modem  SlcaAlits  venion).  T.  con- 
siders it  not  improbable  that  the  Stwe'lis 
are  "a  somewhat  modified  temnant  of 
the  tace  that  occupied  these  regions  prior 
to  the  advent  of  the  Salish."  Only  one 
of  the  live  old  campiog- sites  is  now  used 
hj  them.  Although  Catholic  converls, 
"  there  is  ■  very  gercral  hankering  after 
the  old  condition  of  things."  Youth  are 
no  longer  trained  in  the  andent  way  and 
have  deteriorated.  Each  Salish  tribe 
seems  to  have  had  its  own  puberty  cus- 
toms. T.  believes  that  "nodoubtcan 
any  longer  exist  thst  the  Salish  tribes  in 
former  days  had  not  only  personal  iii/i<i, 
or  totems,  bul  also  beteditaiy  group- 
totems  as  well.  The  Sk'sAliCs  are  re- 
duced to  a  scattered  village  of  a  dozen 
houses  —  a  few  generations  ago  they 
numbered  two  or  three  hundred  souls. 

TOD  Ihwing  {H.  E.  R.)  Biblit^iaphia 
1903-1904  :  Historia  Natural  e  Anthro- 
pologia  do  Brazil.  (R.  doMus.  Paul., 
S.  Paulo,  1904,  VI,  584-659.)  Section 
D,  pp.  607-615,  relates  to  anthropology, 
— 10  titles,  embracing  works  by  Borbosa 
Rodrigues,  A.  B.  Meyer,  Theodor  Koch, 
J.  B.  Sleere,  P.  F.  Vogt,  Paul  Ehren- 
reich,  M.  Schmidt. 

Atcheologia  comparaliva  do  Braiil. 

(Ibid.,  SI9-583.  4  P'-)  Treats  of  arche- 
oli^y  of  Rio  Grande  do  Sul  and  ctani- 
ology  of  its  primitive  inhabitants,  the 
samiaqiiis  of  southern  Braril,  Iheextra- 
sambaquian  culture  of  the  Stale  of  5. 
Paulo,  archeology  of  Bahia,  archeology 
of  the  Amaiotiian  region,  thearcheoli^cal 
provinces  of  Brazil  and  their  relations 
with  the  neighboring  regions  ( provinces  ; 
sambaquian  south  Brazilian,  Bshian, 
Amazonian),  data  from  early  writings, 
etc.  Bibliography  of  53  titles.  Von  1. 
concludes  that  the  Amazonian  re^on  of 
Brazil  has  been  considerably  affected  by 
the  Andean  civilizations,  but  not  the 
center  or  (he  south.  Both  the  extra- 
Amazonian  part;  of  Brazil  and  the  eastern 
sectionsof  Argentina  possessed  in  prehis- 
toric time  no  higher  culture  than  that  of 
the  modem  natives.  A  great  part  of  the 
archeological  objects  from  southern  Brazil 
are  to  be   attributed  to   the   Cakhaqui 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[i». 


.7.  1905 


culture,  non-indigciKHit  to  that  regioo. 
On  the  coast  the  dolicbocepfaalic  (  Boto- 
cado)  and  the  bradiycephalk:  (Goar- 
Boi?)  types,  are  represented,  in  pnfais- 
toric  times,  in  the  sambaqnis. 
Jacob  (C-1  Contribution  k  l'«tade  de  U 
morphologic  des  cerveaai  des  Indieni, 
etc.  (Rev.  d.  Mus.  de  La  Plata,  1904, 
xil,  CHIT.,  pp.  15,  7  pi.  1  Ekescribe*  and 
figarei  brains  of  4  Indians  ( >  Faef>laiia, 
2  Araucanians),  the  anthropometric  data 
coDceming  whom  had  been  given  bj  ten 
Kate  (q.  v.).  Dr  J.  concludes  that  all 
four  brains  are  np  to  the  level  of  devel- 
opment of  the  average  European  brain. 
ThrVahgan  brain  is  rich  in  coDTolntioiii 
and  that  of  the  Alakaluf  woman  rich  in 
secondary  convolutions.  In  these  Indian 
brains  the  parietal  and  temporal  lobei 
are  typically  developed,  while  the  ftontal 
and  occipital  vary  as  with  Euiopeans. 
No     distinctly     patholc^cal     ancnuUies 

d*  Jonghe   (6.^    Histoyre  du  Mechiqae. 

Maauscrit  frangais  inidit  du  XVI*  siiclc. 
(J.  de  la  Soc.  des  Amir,  de  Paris.  1905, 
N.  s.,  II.  1-41.1  Publishes  for  the  first 
time  a  French  MS.  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury, treating  of  the  origins  of  the  three 
chief  tribes,  the  Mexican  calendar,  vari- 
ous cosmogonic  myths  and  legends,  the 
life  of  the  culture-hero  QuelzalcoatI,  etc. 
An  index  of  Nahuatl  terms  is  added. 
The  Spanish  original  of  the  MS.  de  J. 
identifies  with  the  lost  Anliguedades 
Mfxir/itins  of  the  Franciscan  de  Olmos, 
mentioned  hy  Mendieta  The  translator 
was  Andr*  Thevet,  whose  signature  the 
French  MS.  bears.  This  is  a  very  valu- 
able discovery. 

"Amerikanistcnkloh"     de    Berlin. 

(Ihid.,  168-171.1  RSsumis  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  February,  1904.  meeting 
of  the  Berlin  Americanist  Club,  at  which 
papers  were  read  by  Dr  Lehmann  on  the 
history  of  the  Mexican  codices  and  Hr 
Uhle  on  botanical  explorations  in  South 
t  America. 

ton  Kate  ( H.)  Matiriaux  pour  servir  i 
1 '  nnlhropologie  des  Indiens  de  la  Rt- 
publique  An;enline.  (Rev.  d.  Mus.  de 
la  Plata.  1904,  Kit.  repr.  pp.  27,  9  pi.) 
Gives  psycholc^ical  notes,  anthropo- 
metric (post-mortem)  data,  osteological 
observations  and  notes  on  the  braitis  of 
four  Indians  (  V'ahgan  man,  a  Huilliche 
chief  and  a  woman  of  the  same  tribe,  an 
old  Alakaluf  woman),  three  of  whMn 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


563 


were  government  prisoners.  Also  an- 
thropometric measurements  (living)  and 
observations  on  three  Araucans,  three 
Tehuelches,  and  four  Chiriguanos.  The 
results  of  an  autopsy  of  the  Yahgan  are 
likewise  given.  The  two  Fuegians  were 
mesocephalic,  the  two  Araucans  brachy- 
cephalic.  Of  the  ten  living  Indians  four 
were  mesocephalic,  the  rest  brachyce- 
phalicy  the  Tehuelches  being  very  round- 
headed.  The  condition  of  the  brains 
examined  was  such  as  to  permit  only 
certain  details  of  observation.  The 
brain-weights  of  the  two  males  were 
average  or  ordinary,  that  of  the  woman 
small  (see  :  Jakob).  The  author  notes 
<<  the  Japanese  aspect  of  young  Araucan 
children,"  while  two  of  the  Tehuelches 
'*  recalled,  by  their  general  aspect,  cer- 
tain fine  types  of  the  North  American 
Indian  (Yaqui,  Pima)." 

Koch  (Th.)  Forschungsreise  in  Brasilien. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii, 
281-283. )  Notes  on  journeys,  July- 
December,  1904,  in  the  Caiary-Maup6s 
region  of  Brazil,  among  the  Kob^ua 
(possessing  mask-dances,  etc.),  Um&ua, 
ill-treated  by  the  whites,  but  taking  ven- 
geance ;  Tucano,  Tari^a,  Pira-tapuyo, 
Uan^na,  Baniwa,  Maku,  etc.  Dr  K. 
obtained  numerous  vocabularies,  photo- 
graphs, ethnologic  specimens,  including 
some  100  dance-masks  of  the  Kob^ua, 
and  some  stone  axes  of  curious  form 
looked  on  as  reliques.  The  language  of 
the  Um&ua  is  ''  a  pure  Cariban  dialect." 

Latdiam  ( R.  £. )  Notes  on  some  ancient 
Chilean  skulls  and  other  remains.  (J. 
Anthr.  Inst.,  Lond.,  1904,  xxxiv,  234- 
254,  2  pi.)  Describes,  with  detailed 
measurements,  4  male  and  one  female 
skull  (all  subdolichocephalic)  found  at 
an  average  depth  of  4  ft.  9  in.,  in  a 
quarry  near  Coquimbo.  The  evidence 
indicates  submersion  and  upheaval  sub- 
sequent to  burial,  and  the  ground  '*  has 
not  been  disturbed  for  hundreds,  perhaps 
for  thousands  of  years."  One  male  skull 
(subdolichocephalic)  was  from  one  of  a 
number  of  shell -mounds  about  Coquimbo 
bay.  With  the  female  skeleton  were 
found  buried  two  mullers,  a  flat  mortar- 
stone,  and  a  flat  stone  amulet.  With  the 
others  flint  implements,  some  fragments 
of  coarse  pottery,  etc.,  were  found.  The 
general  type  of  these  skulls  "is  quite 
distinct  ( even  to  a  casual  observer )  from 
that  of  any  other  Chilean  race  which  I 
have  examined,   including   that  of   the 


natives  of  the  time  of  the  Spanish  Con- 
quest. ' '  Several  points  of  resemblance  to 
Fuegian  and  Eskimo  skulb  are  noted, 
which,  L.  considers,  are  racially  cognate. 
L.  adds  a  note  by  Dr  Flores  describing 
three  ancient  skulls  from  the  island  of 
Mocha,  representing  a  mixture  of  the 
ancient  race  with  the  later  Araucans. 

Lehnuum-Nitscho  (R.)  GefUschte  eth- 
nologische  Gegenst&nde  in  Buenos  Aires. 
(Sonntags-Ztg.,  Buenos  Aires,  1905, 
Heft  18,  S.-A.,  p.  I,  I  fg.)  Brief 
account  of  spurious  Indian  objects  (stone 
and  bone  axes,  wooden  statuettes  with 
real  but  not  Indian  hair,  etc.)  manu- 
factured by  a  certain  M.  Goireau  of 
Lomas  de  Zamorra.  Some  fantastic 
pieces  have  been  disposed  of  by  him. 

El  Congreso  de  Americanistas  XIV 


Sesion  —  Stuttgart,  1904.  Informe  del 
Delegado  de  la  Faculdad  de  Filosofia 
y  Letras  de  la  Universidad  de  Buenos 
Aires.  (Rev.  de  la  Univ.,  Buenos 
Aires,  1905,  in,  repr.,  pp.  52.)  Report 
of  Dr  Lehmann-Nitsche  as  delegate  to 
Stuttgart  Congress  of  Americanists.  Con- 
tains very  good  r^sum^s  of  over  40  papers 
and  addresses,  some  quite  extensive,  par- 
ticularly those  of  Fraas,  Jochelson,  Hans 
Meyer,  Plagemann,  KapfT,  Jonkheer  van 
Panhuys. 

LeJMl  (L.)  Emanuel  Domenech.  (J. 
Soc.  d.  Am^r.  de  Paris,  1905,  N.  s.,  ii, 
131-132.)  Note  on  the  Abb^  Dome- 
nech, whose  recent  death  at  Lyons, 
where  he  had  lived  long  in  retirement, 
recalls  his  Livre  des  Sauvages  (i860), 
once  much  discussed  and  by  many  looked 
on  as  apocr3rphal.  L.  thinks  critics  have 
been  too  severe. 

Marcel  (G. )  Gabriel  Gravier.  (Ibid., 
137-138.)  Brief  sketch  of  G.  Grabier, 
geographer  of  Rouen  (d.  aged  78),  an 
authority  of  eminence  on  Norse  and  other 
early  voyages  to  America. 

McLane  (A.  C. )  Anthropology  at  Har- 
vard. (Iowa  J.  Hist,  and  Pol.,  Iowa 
City,  1905,  III,  445-453.)  Treats  of  the 
Peabody  Museum  and  its  collections,  the 
propagators  of  anthropology  at  Harvard, 
anthropology  in  the  curriculum,  interest 
of  students,  instructors  and  courses,  etc. 
The  department  is  growing  fast. 

Mead  (F.  H.)  The  Peabody  Museum  of 
Harvard  University.  (Rec.  of  Past, 
Wash.,  1905,  IV,  68-79,  *4  %s. )  Gives 
account  of  origin,  arrangement,  charac- 


564 

ter  of  exhibits  (N.  Americui  Indian, 
Swiss  lake  dwellings,  S.  America,  C. 
America  and  Mexico,  Pacific  islands, 
Japan.elc).  There  are  also  an  eilensive 
osleological  collection  and  a  library  of 
3,ocx>  volumes,  besides  3,000  pamphlets. 
The  Museum  has  its  special  publications. 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


\».  S.,  7.  1905 


The  civiliu 


isofai 


e  tribes  of  Call 
prehistoric  man  of  Delaware  Ttlley. 

MMting   (The)  of  the   Archeological   In- 
jtilute  of  America.    (Ibid., 17-31,  i  fg. )    , 
Gives    abstracts  of   papers    by   Messrs   ' 
Norton,  Eliot,    Paton,   Waid,  Lummis,    | 
and  Lf  thgoe. 

ISarirUlll(C.  H.)     Dislribulion  of  Indian 
tribes  in  the  soothem  Sierra  and  adjacent    | 
ports  of  the  San  Joaquin  valley,  California.    1 
(Science,  N.  Y.,  1904,  n.  s.,  xix,  912-   ' 
917.)     According   to  Dc  M.,   "in  the 
Sierra  the  distribution  of  tribes  conforms 
closely  with  certain  launal  bells,"   and 
generally  the  "distribution  of  the  Indians 
.conforms  closely  with  that  of  the  faunal 
and  floral  areas."     In  Callfomia  no  In- 
dians live  in  the  boreal  zones,  and  few, 
if  any,  in  the  upper  half  of  the  transition 
lone.    The  great  majority  live  in  a  single 
life  zone  (the  upper  Sonoran],  many  in 
the   lower  Sonoran,   and  a  few  in  tiie 
transition.    The  author  lists  9  Yokuts  and 
7  Painte  tribes,  with  their  locations,  the 
ibrmer  belonging  (o  the  hoi  valley  and    ' 
adjacent  fool  hills,  the  latter  to  the  cooler 
ponderoM-pine  bell  of  the  mounlains. 

Honorer  (E.)  Les  Indicna  Guatos  de 
Matlo-Grosso.  (J.  Koc.  d.  Am*r.  de 
Paris,  1905.  S.  s.,  ir,  155-158,1  Notes 
on  physical  eharaclers  (stature  of  men 
1.65-1.75,  women  1,55-1,70  meters}, 
family  (children  6-S,  mixed  breeds  favor 
Guato),  temperament  (gentle,  idle), 
Ashing  (shooting  paiu),  dwellings, 
clothing,  music,  dances  (lourourou  and 
sirirt),  alcoholism,  etc.,  obtained  in 
1900-1901.  The  Guatos  arc  nominally 
Christians.  Physically  they  are  among 
the  finest  in  South  America. 

P^per  {Q.  H.)  An  unusual  Navaho 
medicine  ceremony,  (So.  Wkmn,, 
Hampton,  Va,,  I905,  XXXIV,  2^8-235,) 
Brief  account  of  the  ceremony  with  sand- 
painting  for  cure  of  sore  throat,  said  by 
medicine-man  to  be  caused  by  nightly 
visits  of  eagle. 

Pnuas  (K,  Th,)  Der  Kampf  der  Sonne 
mit  den  Stemen  in  Mexiko.     (Globus, 


Bmschwg,,  1905,  Lxxxxii,  136-146, 
6  fgs, )  EHscusses  the  ancieDt  MeiicmD 
idea  dial  the  sun  lights  with  the  stars 
and  the  conquered  are  offered  op  in  sac- 
rifice. The  stars  were  daily  killed  1^ 
the  sun,  sacrificed,  fell  down  into  the 
underworld,  and  rose  again  the  next 
day.  The  identity  of  this  process  with 
the  sacrificial  death  which  the  gods  had 
to  suffer  to  renew  themselves  and  io- 
crease  their  power,  there  were  transposed 
to  the  heavens.  There  was  a  complete 
parallel  between  the  mundane  and  the 
celestial  processes.  The  relations  of 
festivals,  etc,  10  this  basal  idea  are  dis- 

Bleck  ^^Dr'^  Reisebilder  aus  Fatagonien 
und  von  der  chilenischen  K  lisle.  (COrr.- 
Bl.  d,  Deutschen  Ges.  f.  Anthrop.,  Mfln- 
chen,  1904,  XXXV,  46, )  Contains  some 
notes  on  the  Fucgian  Feaherai, 

Sapper  (K, )  Der  Charakter  der  miltel- 
amerikanischen  Indianer.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvll,  138-131.) 
Among  the  chief  characterisdcs  of  the 
Central  American  Indians  are  :  Slolidit; 
and  emotional  control,  noticeably  in  chil- 
dren.  and  more  the  result  of  adult  exam- 
ple than  family  education.  Moderation 
( but  great  tribal  differences,—  the  Mayas 
are  quick  and  more  excitable  than  the 
Kekchi)  in  movement,  language,  gesture 
of  the  face,  etc.,  but  energy  and  intel- 
lectual qualities  ore,  nevertheless  well 
developed.  Exceptionally  (al  festivals, 
etc,  j  they  run  riot  for  a  lime.  Woman 
has  an  imporUnl  rdle.  Their  childlike- 
ness  tempers  their  hate  and  vengeance. 
li'^Sging  was  met  with  only  among  the 

gave  presents  of  clothing,  etc.  The 
Indian  woman  is  very  industrious ;  the 
man.  loo,  accomplishes  much,  and  has 
also  persistence.  In  twelve  years  the 
author  had  nothing  stolen  by  Indians. 


The   s 


uthen 


facedly  than  the  northern,  but  the  lying 
of  the  aborigines  has  been  exaggerated. 
European  culture  must  not  be  rammed 
down  the  throat  of  an  Indian. 
Seler  (E.)     Mischfbra 


1   deiti 

Bgainsl  the  system atization  of  the  priestly 
school  of  the  tenalamati  period, —  differ- 
ent qualities  are  united  in  the  same  per- 
son. The  deities  discussed  are  Tepey- 
oUotli,  Xipe,  Quetxalcoall. 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


565 


Smith  ( A.  G. )  Okoboji  Indian  skull  meas- 
urements. (Iowa  J.  Hist.  &  Pol.,  Iowa 
City,  1905,  III,  435-441,  4  pi.)  Gives 
chief  measurements  of  5  (others  frag- 
mentary) skulls  from  Okoboji  mound. 
Three  were  dolichocephalic,  two  brachy- 
cephalic. 

Smith  ( Harlan  I. )  An  archeological  ex- 
pedition to  the  Columbia  valley.  ( Rec. 
of  Past,  Wash.,  1905,  iv,  119 -127,  9 
fgs. )  Describes  human  figure  made 
from  antler,  found  in  child's  grave  at 
Tampico,  and  other  objects.  Article  is 
partly  r^sum^d  from  American  Museum 
Journal  for  January,  1904,  and  Science 
for  April  8,  1904. 

Tooker  ( W.  W. )  Meaning  of  some  Indian 
names  in  Virginia.  (William  and  Mary 
Coll.  Quart.,  Williamsburg,  Va.,  1 905, 
XIV,  62-64. )  Discusses  etymology  of 
Arrohetac,  Cantaunkack,  Capahowasick, 
Kecoughtan,  Kiskiack,  Nansamund, 
Paspahegh. 

Vogt  ( Fr. )  Verba-  und  Holzgewinnung 
im  Misiones-Territorium.  ( Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  248-254.) 
Describes  ma/^-cultivation  and  lumbering 
in  the  Misiones  territory  of  Argentina. 
Contains  notes  on  the  history  of  ''Para- 
guay tea,'*  now  the  ** national  drink"  of 
the  majority  of  the  natives  on  the  LaPlata. 

Waldey«r  (W.)  Uebcr  meinen  Aufen- 
thalt  in  St.  Louis  und  die  Anthropolo- 
gische  Abteilung  der  Wei tausstel lung 
daselbst.  (Zeit.  f.  Ethnol.,  Berlin,  1905, 
XXX VI  I,  213-216.)  Notes  on  trip  to 
Mexico,  etc.  W.  doubts  the  unity  of 
the  Indian  stock  of  N.  America,  and 
considers  the  aborigines  of  n  1  imate  Mon- 
golian origin. 


Ward  (D.  J.  H.)  Second  yearly  meeting 
of  the*  Iowa  Anthropological  Associa- 
tion. (Iowa  J.  Hist,  and  Pol.,  Iowa 
City,  1905,111,422-458.)  Account  of 
proceedings  and  condensed  report  of 
papers  by  Starr,  Ward,  Smith,  Brady, 
McLane,  Veblen,  Pratt  (see  these 
names). 


The    investigation    of   the    Okoboji 


mounds  and  the  finds.  (Ibid.,  427-435. ) 
Describes  excavations  made  in  Novem- 
ber, 1904,  objects  found,  etc.,  chiefly 
human  bones  representing  more  than  30 
individuals,  though  possibly  too  alto- 
gether had  been  buried  in  the  mounds. 
Some  of  the  uppermost  finds  (beads, 
iron,  etc.)  indicate  contact  with  whites. 
Evidences  of  perhaps  six  different  orders 
of  burials  occur.  The  lowest  was  a  bone 
burial;  those  in  the  top  were  interred 
sitting. 

Wintemberg  (W.  J.)  French  Canadian 
foHc-tales.  (J.  Amer.  Folk-lore,  Bos- 
ton, 1904,  XVII,  265-267.)  English 
texts  of  three  brief  tales  :  Transforma- 
tion with  animals,  the  evil  eye,  Jack 
with  his  lantern. 

Wright  ( G.  F. )  The  physical  conditions 
in  North  America  during  man's  early 
occupancy.  (Rec.  of  Past,  Wash., 
1905,  IV,  15-26,  4  fgs.,  6  maps.)  Treats 
of  the  Trenton  gravel  data,  Canadian 
boulders  in  Missouri,  <'  Lansing  man," 
etc.  Author  considers  that  '*when  we 
speak  of  glacial  man  in  America,  we  do 
not  necessarily  imply  an  antiquity  any 
greater  than  that  which  is  now  assigned 
to  his  more  civilized  brethren  in  Egypt 
and  Babylonia." 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA 

Recent  Work  of  the  Wisconsin  Archeological  Society.  —  The  bill 
to  promote  the  work  of  the  Wisconsin  Archeological  Society,  introduced 
in  the  Wisconsin  legislature  early  in  February  last  and  previously  men- 
tioned in  these  pages  (^American  Anthropologist ^  vol.  7,  1905,  p.  170), 
received  the  unanimous  support  of  that  body  and  became  a  law  by  ap- 
proval of  the  Governor  on  June  10.  This  enactment,  which  is  the  first 
that  has  ever  been  made  in  the  interest  of  Wisconsin  archeology,  provides 
for  the  printing,  at  the  expense  of  the  State,  of  1,500  copies  of  the  bi- 
monthly Transactions  of  the  Wisconsin  Archeological  Society  in  pamph- 
let form,  not  to  exceed  75  pages  per  number,  with  the  necessary  illustra- 
tions. Of  this  edition  several  hundred  copies  will  be  presented  to  the 
Wisconsin  Free  Library  Commission  for  distribution  among  its  traveling 
libraries.  These  Transactions  will  supersede  the  Bulletin  that  has  been 
published  quarterly  by  the  Society  under  the  editorship  of  Mr  Charles  E. 
Brown.  One  of  the  first  numbers  of  the  Transactions  that  will  be  pub- 
lished under  the  new  law  will  consist  of  a  monograph  on  the  Aboriginal 
Pipes  of  Wisconsin,  by  the  president  of  the  Society,  Mr  George  A.  West, 
who  has  devoted  many  years  to  a  study  of  the  subject  and  the  collection 
of  material  relating  thereto.  This  noteworthy  collection,  comprising 
many  hundreds  of  specimens,  representing  every  period  and  type  from 
the  primitive  pebble  and  tube  pipes  to  the  clay,  lead,  and  iron  pipes  of 
early  historic  times,  will  eventually  be  presented  to  some  worthy  institu- 
tion. It  is  also  proposed  to  publish  catalogues  of  archeologic  collections 
from  Wisconsin,  and  to  this  end  a  beginning  has  been  made  toward  listing 
all  collections  of  the  sort  now  deposited  in  large  museums  outside  the 
State.  This  is  a  laudable  enterprise,  as  it  will  make  available  to  students 
of  Wisconsin  archeology  all  scattered  material  pertaining  to  the  subject. 

Research  work  under  the  auspices  of  the  Society  is  being  conducted 
in  many  parts  of  the  State  by  a  larger  number  of  trained  students  than 
ever  before.  Mr  Charles  E.  Brown,  secretary  and  curator,  now  devotes 
his  entire  energy  to  the  work  of  the  Society.  During  the  present  season 
Mr  Brown  will  conduct  a  small  party  in  the  field  with  the  view  of  complet- 
ing the  location  and  survey  of  the  aboriginal  monuments  and  eventually 
of  effecting  their  preservation,  and  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  notes, 
photographs,  maps,  and  artifacts.     Headquarters  for  the  Society  have  been 

566 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  56/ 

opened  at  Milwaukee,  where  a  bureau  of  records  is  established  and  whence 
members  throughout  the  State  will  be  directed  in  their  researches.  The 
State  Board  of  Agriculture  has  become  interested  in  the  Society's  en- 
deavors, and  is  furthering  its  plans  for  lectures  and  the  exhibition  of  col- 
lections, photographs,  charts,  maps,  and  models  of  the  archeologic 
features  of  various  sections  of  Wisconsin,  at  the  forthcoming  State  Fair 
at  West  Allis,  where,  it  is  hoped,  interest  in  the  work  will  be  greatly 
increased,  particularly  as  a  group  of  mounds,  preserved  through  the  efforts 
of  the  Society,  is  situated  within  the  limits  of  the  fair  grounds,  forming 
.  an  object  lesson  in  the  preservation  of  local  antiquities. 

One  of  the  purposes  of  the  Society,  in  which  it  has  been  especially 
successful,  has  been  to  induce  the  owners  of  fugitive  specimens,  as  well  as 
of  large  collections,  to  present  them  to  or  to  place  them  on  deposit  in 
some  local  museum  or  educational  institution ;  and  in  some  instances  the 
Society  has  purchased  collections  for  this  purpose.  No  effort  has  yet 
been  made  to  concentrate  the  collections  of  Wisconsin  in  a  great  central 
museum,  so  that  while  journeys  of  considerable  length  are  necessary  in 
order  to  examine  representative  collections  of  Wisconsin  artifacts,  the 
plan  has  the  advantage  of  arousing  local  interest  in  archeology  in  many 
communities,  and  ultimately  will  stimulate  effort  in  many  directions 
toward  advancing  the  Society's  project  for  the  preservation  of  antiquities. 

The  growing  interest  in  archeology  is  manifest  throughout  Wisconsin. 
For  several  years  a  course  in  American  history  and  archeology  has  been 
given  by  Dr  George  L.  Collie,  of  Beloit  College,  to  which  Mr  Frank  A. 
Logan,  of  Chicago,  generously  presented  the  Rust  collection  at  the  close 
of  the  Columbian  Exposition  in  1893,  and  to  which  he  has  recently 
added  the  W.  H.  Elkey  collection  of  6,000  stone  and  copper  implements. 
The  Oshkosh  Public  Library,  through  the  efforts  of  the  Wisconsin 
Society,  has  become  one  of  the  repositories  of  Wisconsin  archeological 
material,  and  in  addition  has  recently  received  the  James  G.  Pickett  col- 
lection, from  the  Lake  Winnebago  region,  through  the  liberality  of  Mrs 
Leander  Choate.  The  Kellogg  Library  at  Greenbay  is  another  reposi- 
tory, having  recently  received  on  deposit  the  collection  of  J.  P.  Schu- 
macher, a  member  of  the  Wisconsin  Society.  These  objects  were 
gathered  from  the  vicinity  of  Greenbay.  The  collection  of  the  late  I. 
A.  Lapham,  well  known  through  his  researches  in  Wisconsin  archeology 
and  history,  and  the  J.  A.  Rice  collection  of  Mexican  antiquities,  will 
shortly  be  presented  by  the  Wisconsion  Archeological  Society  to  the 
Milwaukee-Downer  College.  It  is  thus  seen  that  the  Society's  efforts  in 
placing  private  collections  where  they  will  be  accessible  to  students  and 
open  to  view  by  every  one,  have  met  with  gratifying  success. 


S68  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

A  project  is  afoot  to  prevent  the  counterfeiting  of  Wisconsin  speci- 
mens and  to  prohibit  artifacts  from  being  taken  from  the  State  for  com- 
mercial purposes.  In  this  endeavor  every  one  will  wish  the  Society 
success,  since  its  officers  assure  us  that  the  plans  ifvill  not  hinder  the 
acquirement  of  Wisconsin  collections  by  the  great  museums  of  the 
country  or  of  the  world,  recognizing  the  fact  that  archeology  cannot  be 
limited  by  political  boundaries  nor  the  interests  of  science  advanced 
by  illiberality.  As  the  work  of  the  Archeological  Society  develops,  and 
the  collections  within  the  State  become  better  known  and  catalogued,  it 
will  be  found,  no  doubt,  that  the  collections  of  even  the  great  museums 
of  the  country  may  be  greatly  enriched  by  exchange  for  the  Society's 
duplicates.  Harijin  I.  Smith. 

Explorations  at  Cavetown,  Maryland. — In  May,  1905,  explora- 
tions were  carried  on  by  Phillips  Academy  of  Andover,  Mass.,  at  Cave- 
town,  Washington  county,  Maryland,  in  a  cave  controlled  by  Mr  G.  M. 
Bushey.  His  son,  Mr  F.  E.  Bushey,  was  much  interested  in  the  spot, 
and  it  was  largely  through  his  representations  that  the  work  was  attempted. 
Previous  excavations  had  been  made  by  Mr  Joseph  D.  McGuire,  of  Wash- 
ington, and  by  others.  The  cave  is  in  a  limestone  formation  to  the  west 
of  the  Blue  Ridge  mountains,  itself  facing  east  from  a  ridge  running  par- 
allel to  the  main  ridge  of  the  mountains.  The  opening,  resembling  that 
of  an  ordinary  rock  shelter,  is  about  21  meters  wide  and  leads  to  a 
chamber  of  which  the  front  part  is  about  16  meters  deep.  In  this  most 
of  the  explorations  were  carried  on.  Farther  under  the  hill  the  cave 
runs  westward  for  about  two  hundred  meters,  ending  in  a  small  pool. 
Pits  were  sunk  and  trenches  dug  in  the  hope  of  finding  traces  ol  early 
man,  but  nothing  suggestive  of  great  age  was  found.  Stone  and  bone 
implements  in  moderate  profusion  existed,  also  numerous  animal  bones. 
Along  the  north  wall  of  the  chamber,  as  well  as  elsewhere,  stalagmitic 
formations  containing  a  sort  of  charcoal-bone  breccia  were  discovered 
and  specimens  taken.  At  the  back  of  the  chamber  a  hard  stalagmitic 
floor  had  formed,  and  under  this  was  a  deposit  of  red  cave  earth.  In 
this  were  no  traces  of  man's  occupancy,  but  in  a  similar  deposit  in  a 
quarry  outside  the  cave  were  found  many  fossilized  animal  bones  ;  the 
identification  of  these  will  determine  the  paleontological  character  of  the 
red-earth  stratum,  in  which,  if  anywhere,  future  excavations  are  likely  to 
lead  to  the  discovery  of  traces  of  the  early  "  cave  man  "  of  European 
reputation.  The  research  was  greatly  aided  by  the  work  and  advice  of 
Prof.  William  H.  Holmes  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology,  and  of 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  569 

Mr  McGuirc  whose  previous  work  made  his  cooperation,  freely  extended, 
almost  a  necessity.  The  results  of  the  work,  which  will  be  embodied  in 
a  bulletin  of  the  Department  of  Archeology  of  Phillips  Academy,  was  in 
charge  of  Mr  W.  K.  Moorehead  and  the  writer. 

Charles  Peabody. 

Preservation  of  Antiquities. — More  people  have  visited  the  pre- 
historic ruins  of  the  Southwest  during  the  present  season  than  during  any 
five  previous  years.  This  points  to  a  marked  revival  of  interest  in 
American  archeology,  and  to  the  necessity  for  an  unremitting  campaign 
for  the  preservation  of  our  antiquities.  Had  it  not  been  for  the  activity 
of  the  General  Land  Office,  the  Office  of  Indian  Affairs,  and  the  Bureau 
of  Forestry  during  last  year,  there  would  have  been  an  increased  amount 
of  vandalism  among  the  ruins.  Happily  the  policy  of  the  Government 
with  reference  to  these  matters  has  become  fairly  well  known  and  is  gen- 
erally respected.  Almost  no  collections  of  prehistoric  material  are  now 
exposed  for  sale  in  New  Mexico ;  but  so  much  cannot  be  said  for  Arizona. 

As  the  spoliation  of  ruins  upon  the  public  domain  becomes  more  and 
more  restricted  by  governmental  authority,  it  becomes  apparent  that  the 
presence  of  extensive  ruins  on  lands  open  to  settlement  add  much  to  their 
desirability  as  homesteads,  since  these  antiquities  may  be  made  a  source 
of  revenue.  Accordingly  homesteads  are  sometimes  located  with  a  view 
solely  to  the  acquisition  of  valuable  ruins,  with  no  intention  of  improve- 
ment and  with  no  possibility  of  agriculture.  Nothing  but  the  most 
liberal  interpretation  of  our  homestead  laws  can  construe  such  an  entry  as 
anything  but  fraudulent.  No  obstacles  should  be  thrown  in  the  way  of 
bona-fide  settlers  who  homestead  the  lands  of  the  Southwest  "  for  the 
purpose  of  actual  settlement  and  improvement,''  but  the  gifl  of  the  lands 
alone  is  all  that  is  contemplated  and  this  is  offered  under  the  assumption 
that  the  settler  will  assist  in  the  development  of  the  country.  It  is  negli- 
gence inexcusable  if  we  continue  to  allow  these  priceless  ruins  to  pass  to 
individual  ownership,  or  to  give  them  away  to  be  destroyed  outright  or 
excavated  by  unscientific  methods  and  their  contents  scattered  and  lost. 
Some  method  should  be  devised  whereby  ruins  situated  on  imappropriated 
public  lands  would  never  be  alienated  and  at  the  same  time  no  desirable 
agricultural  land  be  withheld  from  entry.  The  Commissioner  of  the 
General  Land  Office  should  be  empowered  to  withhold  from  any  home- 
stead entry  small  parcels  of  land  on  which  antiquities  are  situated  which 
in  his  judgment  are  of  sufficient  importance  to  warrant  preservation.  At 
present  there  is  no  law  permitting  him  to  do  this.  Congress  must  be 
looked  to  for  such  authority. 

AM.  ANTH.  N.  S.,  7—38 


570  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Gran  Quivira,  —  A  conspicuous  example  of  the  alienation  of  impor- 
tant archeological  sites  through  the  operation  of  the  homestead  laws  is  that 
of  Tabira,  popularly  known  as  "Gran  Quivira/'  in  eastern  Socorro 
county,  New  Mexico.  A  homestead  entry  was  filed  some  years  ago  on 
the  quarter-section  of  land  upon  which  are  situated  the  ruins  of  this 
pueblo.  This  was  the  most  extensive  of  the  Piro  settlements  and  is  the 
best  preserved  of  all  the  Piro  ruins.  Its  situation  on  the  eastern  frontier 
of  the  Pueblo  region  renders  it  of  imusual  importance.  No  collections  of 
any  importance  have  been  made  from  the  ruins  of  that  region.  After  a 
long  contest  this  homestead  has  recently  been  declared  valid  and  a  patent 
issued  to  the  claimant. 

Pajarito  Park, — By  executive  order  of  July  29, 1905,  an  additional  res- 
ervation of  about  33,000  acres  has  been  given  to  the  Santa  Clara  Indians. 
This  extension  embraces  all  of  the  great  Puye  or  Santa  Clara  group  of  clifT- 
dwellings,  the  principal  center  of  interest  in  the  proposed  Pajarito  Na- 
tional Park.  There  can  be  no  question  as  to  the  justice  of  this  extension. 
It  is  merely  giving  the  Indians  a  part  of  what  already  belonged  to  them 
by  virtue  of  the  grant  of  90,000  acres  by  the  crown  of  Spain  to  the  Santa 
Clara  pueblo  in  1727,  which  was  confirmed  by  Governor  General  Cachu- 
pin  in  his  decree  of  1 763.  The  restitution  of  even  a  part  of  this  land  to 
the  Indians  must  be  commended.  It  is  to  be  regretted,  however,  that  the 
Indians  were  not  offered  in  lieu  of  the  few  sections  containing  the  most 
important  ruins,  other  lands  equally  valuable  for  timber  and  grazing,  and 
this  great  group  of  prehistoric  ruins,  which  many  travelers  have  asserted 
would  be  the  most  attractive  of  all  our  national  parks,  held  by  the  Gov- 
ernment for  the  benefit  of  the  public.  As  it  is,  the  national  park  propo- 
sition will  probably  be  abandoned.  The  Indian  Office  will  provide  for 
the  preservation  of  the  ruins.  Fortunately  the  other  groups  of  ruins  of 
the  Pajarito  plateau  are  brought  within  the  recently  proclaimed  Jemez 
Forest  Reserve,  so  that  their  protection  and  preservation  are  assured. 

Edgar  L.  Hewett. 

Supposed  Shoshoneans  in  Lower  California.  —  The  peninsula  of 
Lower  California  has  been  regarded  by  some  to  have  been  held  in  its 
entirety,  and  by  everyone  over  at  least  its  whole  northern  half,  by 
Indians  forming  part  of  the  Yuman  linguistic  stock.  In  1902  appeared 
Dr  N.  Le6n*s  map  of  the  Linguistic  Families  of  Mexico  in  the  publica- 
tions of  the  National  Museum  of  Mexico,  in  which  a  small  area  on  Todos 
Santos  bay  in  Lower  California,  a  short  distance  south  of  the  interna- 
tional boundary,  is  represented  as  belonging  to  the  Shoshonean  stock. 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  $7 1 

This  area  on  the  map  is  apparently  intended  to  designate  the  general 
location  of  a  Shoshonean  group  rather  than  to  define  its  exact  geograph- 
ical limits.  In  the  same  year  the  same  author  published  in  the  Annals  of 
the  Museo  Nacional  of  Mexico  (vii,  263),  an  article  under  the  title 
"  Los  Comanches  y  el  dialecto  Cahuillo  de  la  Baja  California."  The 
second  part  of  this  contribution  consists  of  a  Cahuilla  vocabulary  com- 
municated to  the  author  in  manuscript  by  A.  Peftafiel.  It  is  stated  that 
according  to  the  census  of  1895  there  were  558  "Cahuillos"  in  *'En- 
senada  and  Todos  Santos."  The  Pefiafiel  vocabulary  is  compared  by 
Dr  Le6n  with  a  Cahuilla  vocabulary  from  Latham's  Comparative  Philology, 
originally  from  Whipple,  and  it  is  found  that  ''great  and  radical  differ- 
ences  between  them  become  apparent,  to  such  a  degree  that  they  appear 
to  be  of  diverse  origin.  There  seems  to  be  a  marked  Nahua  influence  in 
the  one  from  Lower  California." 

The  reason  for  this  difference  is  easily  discovered.  Latham's  vocabu- 
lary, like  those  of  Loew,  Boas,  and  others,  which  are  all  from  within 
the  United  States,  is  Cahuilla,  that  is,  Shoshonean ;  the  Pefiafiel  "Ca- 
huillo" vocabulary  from  Lower  California,  however,  is  Yuman.  This  is 
not  only  certain,  but  in  entire  accord  with  the  unvarying  statements  of 
travelers  and  investigators  to  the  effect  that  the  Indians  of  the  northern- 
most part  of  Lower  California  are  closely  related  to  the  Diegueflo  of 
southernmost  Upper  California,  and  therefore  Yuman.  It  is  accordingly 
apparent  that  the  term  Cahuilla,  also  written  Coahuilla,  Kawia,  Kauvuya, 
etc.,  which  has  ordinarily  and  properly  been  used  of  the  Shoshonean 
Indians  who  inhabit  the  region  between  the  San  Jacinto  and  San  Ber- 
nardino ranges  in  southern  California  and  who  are  most  nearly  related  in 
dialect  to  the  Agua  Caliente,  Luisefio,  and  San  Juan  Capistrano  Indians 
of  the  coast  region  to  the  west  of  themselves,  has  somehow  also  come  to 
be  a  designation,  how  commonly  is  not  known,  of  the  northermost 
Yuman  Indians  of  Lower  California. 

In  1903  Mr  C.  H.  Marks  Jr  accompanied  a  biological  expedition  of 
the  California  Academy  of  Sciences  from  San  Francisco  to  the  Revilla- 
gigedo  islands.  During  a  one  day's  stay  of  the  expedition  at  Ensenada, 
the  settlement  on  Todos  Santos  bay,  Mr  Marks  met  and  overcame  vari- 
ous difficulties  that  arose  and  succeeded  in  obtaining  and  verifying  a 
vocabulary  of  the  Indians  of  the  region.  This  vocabulary  completely 
corroborates  the  "Cahuillo"  one  of  Dr  Le6n  in  being  Yuman,  as 
appears  from  the  following  selected  words : 

One,  cin  ;  two,  uwd  ;  three,  umbx ;  four,  cipdp ;  five,  sdrd^p ;  eye, 
yiu;  nose,  hu ;  ear,  cimd'tl;  tongue,  nt'pd'tl;  mouth,  ax;  fire,  ahauu ; 
wood,  1/  earth  timt;  rock,  wix ;  water,  xa ;  drink,  si. 


Il 


t 


■  l 


5/2  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

It  is  accordingly  plain  that  the  supposed  Shoshonean  territory  in 
northern  Lower  California  does  not  exist,  and  that  all  the  northern  half 
of  the  peninsula  was,  as  has  heretofore  been  believed,  an  unbroken  area 
of  Yuman  territory.  A.  L.  Kroeber. 

Ponce  de  Le6n  and  the  <<  Fountain  of  Youth."  —  On  reading  in  the 
last  number  of  the  Anthropologist  (pp.  368  a,  b)  an  abstract  of  Mr  James 
Mooney's  paper  on  the  "  Ethnography  of  Florida,'*  I  am  reminded  of  the 
fact  that,  some  years  ago,  while  making  some  historical  and  philological 
investigations,  it  became  of  interest  to  me  to  know  the  meaning  of  the 
word  biminiy  which  the  Spaniards  of  Boriken  (Porto  Rico),  Juan  Ponc6 
de  Le6n  among  the  number,  understood  from  the  Arawaks  to  be  the  name 
of  an  island  which  lay  far  out  at  sea  to  the  northwest ;  which  was 
extremely  rich  in  gold ;  and  on  which  there  existed  a  spring  of  which  the 
water  possessed  the  miraculous  property  of  renewing  the  youth  and  restor- 
ing the  vigor  of  any  aged  person  who  drank  of  it  or  bathed  in  it.  It 
was  with  the  object  in  view  of  discovering,  subjugating,  exploring,  and 
settling  this  island  of  Bimini,  and  of  taking  advantage  of  the  restorative 
power  of  its  marvelous  spring,  that  Ponce,  enervated  by  the  '*  strenuous  " 
life  that  he  had  led,  set  sail  from  the  port  of  San  German,  March  3,  151 3, 
on  an  expedition  in  which,  although  he  failed  to  find  Bimini,  he  discov- 
ered what  he  supposed  to  be  an  island,  to  which  he  applied  the  name  of 
Florida. 

It  appears  from  history  that  the  existence  of  a  vigor-restoring  spring 
on  some  far-away  island  of  uncertain  location  had  long  been  a  tradition 
current  among  the  Arawaks,  and  that  some  of  these  Indians  had,  as  Mr 
Mooney  states,  reached  the  mainland  in  their  efforts  to  find  it,  long 
anterior  to  the  time  of  Ponce.  Failing,  in  my  researches,  to  ascertain 
that  any  explanation  of  the  meaning  of  the  name  of  this  mythic  island 
had  ever  been  given,  I  finally  consulted  an  Arawak  vocabulary  in  von 
Martius*  Beitrdge  zur  Eihnographie  .  .  .  Amerikas  (11,  p.  319),  and, 
from  the  elements  of  the  word  which  I  found  therein  (^/,  'life*;  mini, 
*  fountain,'  *  spring,'  '  source  ' ),  discovered  its  signification  to  be  *  foun- 
tain of  life.'  According  to  the  metaphorical  system  of  nomenclature  in 
vogue  among  both  the  Arawaks  and  Caribs,  the  name  of  the  spring  may 
have  been  applied  to  the  supposed  island  on  which  it  was  believed  to 
exist.  Bimini  is  now  the  name  of  a  group  of  small  islands  lying  at  the 
northwest  extremity  of  the  Grand  Bahama  Bank  and  east  of  the  Gulf 
stream.  A  large  island  named  *' Ilia  de  Beimeni  parte"  appears  on  a 
map  in  Peter  Martyr's  Decades,  published  in  151 1. 


\ 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  573 

The  phrase,  "Fountain  of  Youth/*  with  which  we  are  so  familiar 
in  connection  with  the  name  of  Ponce  de  Le6n  and  his  discovery  of 
Florida,  is  doubtless  a  translation  of  the  phrase  used  by  old  Spanish 
writers,  and  this  again  may  originally  have  been  a  free  translation  of  the 
Arawak  word,  although  I  have  met  with  no  statement  by  the  Spanish  his- 
torians that  would  seem  to  give  countenance  to  such  a  supposition. 

W.  R.  Gerard. 

Recent  Folk-lore  Meetings  in  California.  —  The  first  regular  meet- 
ing of  the  Berkeley  Folk-Lore  Club,  founded  May  3,  1905,  was  held  in 
the  evening  of  August  18  at  the  University  of  California.  The  com- 
mittee appointed  to  draft  an  organization  reported  as  follows : 

The  committee  appointed  May  3,  1905,  by  unanimous  vote  of  the  charter 
members  of  the  Berkeley  Folk-Lore  Club  to  report  on  a  scheme  of  organization 
for  the  Club,  beg  leave  to  submit  the  following  : 

Constitution  of  the  Berkeley  Folk-Lore  Club 

1 .  This  Society  shall  be  called  the  Berkeley  Folk-Lore  Club. 

2.  Besides  the  fifteen  charter  members,  to  wit :  Messrs  Lange,  Mitchell, 
Goddard,  Dresslar,  Hart,  Setchell,  Merriam,  Richardson,  Fryer,  Gayley, 
Miller,  Ritter,  Keeler,  Noyes,  and  Kroeber,  members  shall  consist  of  such 
men  members  of  the  Academic  Senate  of  the  University  of  California,  and 
such  men  members  in  good  standing  of  the  American  Folk-Lore  Society,  as 
are  unanimously  elected  by  the  Club  ;  and  of  such  only. 

3.  The  officers  shall  be  a  President,  Vice-president,  and  Secretary,  who 
shall  constitute  an  Executive  Committee  which  shall  arrange  for  all  meetings 
and  transact  all  business  of  the  Club. 

4.  Four  or  more  meetings  annually  shall  be  held,  at  the  first  of  which  in 
each  academic  year  the  officers  shall  be  elected. 

5.  Five  shall  constitute  a  quorum  for  the  transaction  of  business. 

6.  Amendments  to  this  constitution  may  be  proposed  at  any  meeting  of 
the  Club  and  adopted  by  a  two-thirds  vote  of  those  present  at  the  next  meeting. 

The  Committee  recommend  the  adoption  of  this  constitution  and  the 
immediate  organization  of  the  Club  under  its  provisions. 

(  A.  L.  Kroeber 
Signed  :    \  Charles  Keeler 
(g.  R.  Noyes 

The  report  of  the  Committee  was  discussed  and  accepted,  the  proposed 
constitution  being  thereby  adopted. 

The  following  officers  were  then  elected :  President,  A.  F.  Lange  ; 
Vice-president,  Charles  Keeler ;  Secretary,  A.  L.  Kroeber.     New  mem- 


574  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

bcrs  elected  were :  Prof  F.  W.  Putnam,  Dr  B.  P.  Kurtz,  and  Prof  H. 
K.  Schilling. 

The  Committee  on  the  establishment  of  a  California  Branch  of  the 
American  Folk-Lore  Society  reported  as  follows : 

The  committee  appointed  May  3d,  1905,  on  vote  of  the  charter  members 
of  the  Berkeley  Folk-Lore  Club  to  report  on  the  feasibility  of  the  establishment 
of  a  California  Branch  of  the  American  Folk-Lore  Society,  beg  leave  to  submit 
the  following  recommendations : 

That  the  formation  of  the  Berkeley  Folk-Lore  Club  provides  an  opportune 
basis  for  the  establishment  and  successful  development  of  a  California  Branch 
of  the  American  Folk-Lore  Society,  which  will  extend  the  work  undertaken  by 
the  Berkeley  Folk-Lore  Club  to  a  wider  sphere  of  influence  and  bring  it  before 
a  larger  body  of  persons,  thus  enhancing  the  promotion  of  folk-lore  interests 
on  the  Pacific  Coast.     Be  it  resolved  therefore. 

That  a  California  Branch  of  the  American  Folk-Lore  Society  be  hereby 
organized  by  such  of  those  present  as  signify  their  willingness  ;  and 

That  a  committee  of  Ave  be  appointed  to  arrange  for  a  meeting,  including 
a  program,  in  Berkeley,  on  the  evening  of  August  28  ;  said  committee  to  sub- 
mit at  this  meeting  a  formal  draft  of  organization,  with  nominations  for  officers, 
for  the  California  Branch  of  the  American  Folk-Lore  Society. 

(  A.  L.   K ROBBER 

Signed  :    \  Charles  Keeler 
(g.  R.  Noyes 

This  report  was  adopted,  and  the  following  committee  appointed 
under  its  provisions  to  report  at  the  first  meeting  of  the  California  Branch 
on  August  28 :  J.  C.  Merriam,  G.  R.  Noyes,  A.  L.  Kroeber,  W.  C. 
Mitchell,  and  Charles  Keeler. 

The  work  of  the  California  Branch  of  the  American  Folk-Lore  Society 
is  designed  to  be  directed  to  the  study  of  the  many  elements  of  folk-lore 
existing  in  California  among  its  Indian,  Spanish,  American,  and  Asiatic 
populations,  and  to  the  awakening  of  interest  in  such  studies,  by  the 
institution  of  public  lectures,  meetings  devoted  to  discussions  and  com- 
parisons, systematic  researches  leading  to  the  publication  of  new  informa- 
tion, and  the  ultimate  formation  of  branch  or  affiliated  societies  in  various 
parts  of  the  Pacific  Coast.  The  work  that  is  thus  planned  is  connected 
so  intimately  with  the  history  of  California,  and  will  be  so  illustrative  in 
a  wider  sense  of  the  development  of  the  state,  that  the  furtherance  of  this 
work  should  be  of  general  interest. 

The  first  regular  meeting  of  the  California  Branch  was  held  August  28 
in  the  Philosophy  Building,  at  the  University  of  California,  Berkeley. 
Dr  C.  Hart  Merriam  of  Washington  City  gave  the  address  of  the  even- 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  $7$ 

ing  on  "Aboriginal  Folk-lore  from  California."  Prof  F.  W.  Putnam, 
president  of  the  Boston  Branch,  Dr  Roland  B.  Dixon,  president  of  the 
Cambridge  Branch,  Dr  Charles  Peabody  of  Cambridge,  and  Professors  J. 
C.  Merriam  and  W.  E.  Fitter  of  the  University  of  California  spoke  on 
the  aims  and  possibilities  of  the  Branch  and  the  development  of  folk-lore 
studies  in  California.  A  second  meeting  was  held  in  Berkeley  August  31 
in  conjunction  with  the  American  Anthropological  Association. 

At  present  meetings  will  be  held  chiefly  in  Berkeley  and  San  Fran- 
cisco, but  it  is  hoped  that  before  long  it  will  be  possible  to  meet  also  in 
other  cities  in  California  and  adjoining  states. 

Huskwaki  Indians  of  Iowa.  —  Dr  Duren  J.  H.  Ward  of  Iowa 
City  has  recently  spent  eight  weeks  in  the  study  of  the  Muskwaki,  or 
Fox,  Indians  near  Tama,  Iowa,  in  the  interest  of  the  State  Historical 
Society.  These  and  the  Sauk,  or  Sauki,  Indians  have  been  so  long  and 
intimately  associated  that  their  separate  tribal  identity  has  been  lost  for 
generations.  While  their  dealings  with  the  Government  have  nearly  always 
been  as  Sauk  and  Foxes,  yet  most  of  these  350  Indians  in  Iowa  are  said 
to  regard  themselves  as  Muskwaki.  With  the  exception  of  half  a  dozen 
Winnebago  these  people  are  descendants  of  those  who  in  1846  were 
forced  to  move  to  Kansas  after  ceding  to  the  United  States  all  their  lands 
west  of  the  Mississippi  in  1842  ;  but  small  bands  wandered  back  to  their 
old  home,  and  on  petition  of  five  hundred  citizens,  between  1852  and 
1854,  were  permitted  to  remain.  About  the  winter  of  1856-57  the 
band  that  had  settled  at  Tama  purchased  eighty  acres  of  land  for  {1,000, 
and  from  that  date  to  1886  the  tract  had  increased  by  purchase  to  about 
1,500  acres,  the  Indian  title  to  which  was  confirmed  by  act  of  Congress  of 
October  i,  1886 ;  and  by  1899  additional  purchases  increased  their  holdings 
to  about  3,000  acres,  at  a  total  cost  of  $85,635.  To  the  section  occupied 
by  these  Indians  Dr  Ward  suggests  that  the  name  "Musquakia"  be 
applied.  What  may  be  regarded  as  the  most  interesting  discovery 
made  by  Dr  Ward  is  a  fragmentary  history  of  the  tribe,  written  by 
Chakatakase.  With  the  understanding  that  it  shall  not  be  translated,  the 
manuscript  has  been  transferred  to  the  State  Historical  Society  for  publi- 
cation in  the  Muskwaki  language,  the  Indians  to  receive  three  hundred 
copies  of  the  printed  work,  which  will  make  about  fifty  pages.  A  model 
of  a  Muskwaki  house,  36  by  28  by  22  inches  in  size,  has  been  deposited 
among  the  collections  of  the  Historical  Society. 

Inlaid  Objects :  A  Correction. —  In  an  article  on  "  Ceremonial  Ob- 
jects and  Ornaments  from  Pueblo  Bonito,''  published  in  the  last  number 


5/6  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [w.  s.,  7,  1905 

of  the  American  Anthropologist ^  Mr  George  H.  Pepper  thus  misquotes 
(p.  197)  my  account  of  the  mosaic  frog  from  Chaves  Pass,  Arizona: 
"  As  an  example  of  mosaic  work,  this  object  is  the  only  veritable  mosaic 
known  to  me  from  ruins  in  the  Southwest."  What  I  did  publish  (Smith- 
sonian Report  for  1896,  pp.  529-530)  is  as  follows :  ''  As  an  example  of 
mosaic  work  this  object  is  unsurpiissed  and  with  the  exception  of  one  other 
is  the  only  veritable  mosaic  frog  known  to  me  from  ruins  in  the  South- 
west. ' '  I  have  here  italicized  the  words  that  Mr  Pepper  has  omitted  in 
his  version.  There  are  several  ancient  Pueblo  mosaic  objects  in  the 
National  Museum,  collected,  figured,  and  described  by  me. 

J.  Walter  Fewkes. 

The  So-called  <<  Oldest  House  "  in  Santa  F6.  —  In  the  city  of  Santa 
F^,  New  Mexico,  opposite  the  chapel  of  San  Miguel,  there  stands  an 
adobe  house  that  is  locally  reputed  to  have  been  the  oldest  house  in  this 
next  to  the  oldest  permanent  settlement  made  by  Europeans  within  the 
limits  of  the  United  States,  and  also  to  have  been  the  last  renmant  of  the 
ancient  Indian  pueblo  of  Analco.  In  January,  1902,  I  had  the  good  for- 
tune to  be  present  during  the  repairing  of  this  old  structure  and  of  having 
the  opportunity  of  thoroughly  examining  the  walls  as  they  were  recon- 
structed. These  were  found  to  consist  of  (i)  numerous  fragments  of 
recent  Mexican  adobe  work,  the  result  of  occasional  repairs;  (2)  laige 
portions,  perhaps  three-fourths  of  the  entire  structure,  of  old  Mexican 
adobe  masonry  contemporaneous  with  the  major  part  of  San  Miguel 
chapel,  and  (3)  in  three  places,  forming  the  foundation  and  at  no  point 
exceeding  18  inches  in  height,  considerable  fragments  of  the  original 
pueblo  wall,  the  adobe  masses  exactly  corresponding,  in  textiu'e,  dimen- 
sions, and  mode  of  construction,  with  those  in  the  remaining  walls 
of  the  pueblo  of  Kwapoge  on  the  hill  formerly  occupied  by  Old  Fort 
Marcy,  at  the  northern  edge  of  the  town.  The  results  of  this  examina- 
tion are  thus  in  accord  with  the  belief  of  Mr  Bandelier,  expressed  years 
ago,  that  this  so-called  "oldest  house'*  belongs  mainly  to  the  historical 
period.  Edgar  L.   Heweit. 

El  Horro  Inscriptions.  —  The  latest  contribution  to  the  literature  of 
the  historically  important  inscriptions  made  by  early  Spanish  explorers 
and  missionaries  on  the  face  of  El  Morro,  or  **  Inscription  Rock,'*  a 
sandstone  mesa  about  35  miles  east  of  Zufii  pueblo,  New  Mexico,  appears 
in  vol.  I,  no.  i,  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  Delaware  County  Institute  of 
Science  (Media,  Pa.,  1905),  under  the  title  "Photographs  of  Some  of 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  S77 

the  Inscriptions  on  El  Morro,  New  Mexico. ' '  The  illustrations  consist 
of  ten  excellent  half-tone  reproductions  of  photographs  made  by  Mr 
Homer  E.  Hoopes,  and  are  accompanied  by  transcriptions  and  annotated 
translations  by  Mr  Henry  L.  Broomall,  who  corrects  some  of  the  transla- 
tions made  by  previous  writers  on  the  subject.  The  Spanish  inscriptions 
on  El  Morro  are  interesting  from  both  a  historical  and  an  ethnologic 
point  of  view,  as  they  furnish  tally  dates  and  other  information  respecting 
some  of  the  most  important  visits  by  the  Spaniards  to  the  western  Pueblo 
tribes  in  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries.  All  of  the  inscrip- 
tions are  not  included  in  the  present  treatise,  but  it  is  hoped  that  the 
remainder  will  be  similarly  photographed  and  translated  in  a  future  publi- 
cation. 

The  Missouri  Historical  Society  has  adopted  a  resolution  request- 
ing its  president,  Dr  C.  A.  Peterson,  to  prepare  a  form  of  declaration  of 
trust  whereby  the  Society  can  vest  the  beneficial  ownership  of  all  the 
property  owned  by  it  in  the  people  of  the  state  of  Missouri,  to  be  subject 
to  the  control  of  the  Society  as  heretofore.  By  transferring  its  building 
and  other  property  to  the  State,  it  is  believed  a  greater  degree  of  safety 
for  the  records  and  collections  will  be  insured,  while  the  Society  will 
become  more  permanent  in  character.  Among  its  possessions  is  a  valu- 
able archeological  collection,  recently  enriched  with  some  of  the  objects 
recently  found  by  Mr  David  I.  Bushnell  Sr  in  his  excavation  of  the 
N.  D.  McEver's  mound  in  Pike  county,  Illinois. 

Dr  George  Grant  MacCurdv  of  Yale  University  has  been  elected 
to  honorary  membership  in  the  Missouri  Historical  Society.  He  has  also 
been  chosen  to  represent  the  ficole  d*Anthropologie  de  Paris  at  the 
forthcoming  inauguration  of  Dr  Edmund  J.  James  as  president  of  the 
University  of  Illinois. 

The  British  government  has  granted  a  pension  of  ;;£2oo  to  Dr  J. 
G.  Frazer  in  recognition  of  his  literary  merits  and  of  his  anthropological 
studies,  and  a  pension  of  jCiS<^  to  the  Rev.  Lorimer  Fison  in  apprecia- 
tion of  the  originality  and  importance  of  his  researches  in  Australian  and 
Fijian  ethnology. 

The  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association  held  in 
San  Francisco,  August  29-31,  was  successful  in  every  way.  The  pro- 
ceedings of  the  meeting  and  several  of  the  important  papers  that  were 
read  will  be  published  in  the  next  issue  of  the  American  Anthropologist, 

The  government  of  Ontario  has  planned  to  publish  a  Handbook 
of  Canadian  Ethnology  and  Archeology  for  the  benefit  of  the  Fifteenth 


5/8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  \j»,  s..  7,  1905 

International  Congress  of  Americanists  to  be  held  at  Quebec  in  Septem- 
ber, 1906. 

The  sixth  Congress  of  Criminal  Anthropology  will  meet  at  Turin  on 
April  28,  1906,  under  the  presidency  of  Professor  Lombroso.  An  exhi- 
bition of  criminal  anthropology  will  be  held  in  connection  with  the 
congress. 

The  Sauk  County  Historical  Society  has  been  organized  in  Wis- 
consin, to  further  archeological  and  historical  research,  by  Messrs  A.  B. 
Stout  and  H.  E.  Cole,  members  of  the  Wisconsin  Archeological  Society. 

Dr  W  J  McGee,  who  has  devoted  the  last  two  years  to  the  Depart- 
ment of  Anthropology  of  the  Louisiana  Purchase  Exposition,  has  been 
appointed  managing  director  of  the  new  Saint  Louis  Public  Museum. 

The  University  of  Pennsylvania  will  receive  {60,000  from  the 
estate  of  the  late  Professor  Maxwell  Sommerville,  who  held  a  chair  of 
archeology  in  the  university. 

The  Berlin  municipality  has  appropriated  {20,000  to  erect  a  statue 
in  honor  of  Rudolf  Virchow,  which  will  be  placed  on  the  Karlsplatz,  close 
to  the  Charity  Hospital. 

Prof  G.  F.  Wright,  of  Oberlin  College,  is  making  a  trip  to  south- 
em  Russia  and  the  Red  sea  to  continue  his  geological  and  anthropological 
*  studies  in  that  region. 

The  fourth  meeting  of  the  German  and  Vienna  Anthropological 
Society  was  held  at  Saltzburg  on  the  28th  to  the  30th  of  August. 

Clark  Wissler,  Ph.D.,  and  Berthold  Laufer,  Ph.D.,  have  been 
appointed  lecturers  in  anthropology  at  Columbia  University. 


I 


American  Anthropologist 


NEW   SERIES 


Vol.  7  October-December,   1905  No.  4 

SYSTEMATIC   NOMENCLATURE   IN   ETHNOLOGY^ 

By  a.  L.  KROEBER 

If  one  were  asked  to  name  the  one  work  which  has  been  of 
greatest  importance  and  influence  in  the  development  of  American 
anthropology,  it  could  scarcely  be  any  other  than  Powell's  "  Indian 
Linguistic  Families  of  America  North  of  Mexico,"  published  in 
the  Seventh  Annual  Report  of  the  Bureau  of  Ethnology  fourteen 
years  ago.  Its  importance  does  not  lie  in  any  statement  of  new 
principles,  for,  other  than  a  few  subsidiary  ones  relating  to  nomen- 
clature, it  contains  none.  Neither  has  its  influence  been  due  to  the 
originality  of  its  methods  and  the  consequent  novelty  of  its  con- 
clusions. The  idea  of  the  linguistic  family  was  not  a  new  concep- 
tion in  American  ethnology.  Students  of  American  languages  and 
ethnological  conditions  had  for  some  time  previous  had  a  clear  con- 
ception of  the  linguistic  family  as  a  unit,  and  it  is  only  necessary  to 
turn  to  the  works  of  Gatschet,  Boas,  and  others  of  the  period  im- 
mediately preceding  the  appearance  of  Powell's  work ;  in  a  certain 
measure  to  the  writings  of  Brinton  ;  and  for  all  essentials  to  the 
pioneers  Gallatin  and  Hale  ;  to  see  that  the  idea  of  an  ethnological 
classification  on  the  basis  of  linguistic  relationship  was  a  familiar 
one.  What  Powell  did  was  to  seize  clearly  the  conception  of  the 
necessity  of  some  classification,  and  of  the  inevitability  of  this  being 
on  a  linguistic  basis  ;  and  then  to  carry  through  his  purpose  rigor- 
ously, systematically,  and  completely.  In  two  respects  only  did 
his  attempt  differ  from  the  more  indecisive  and  narrower  attempts  of 
predecessors.     He  for  the  first  time  broke  definitely  with  the  old 

-  Read  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  Berkeley,  Cali- 
fornia, August  31. 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  7—39  tyg 


S8o  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

association  between  linguistic  classification  and  philological  study. 
In  Powell  the  method  of  classification  is  purely  linguistic ;  the  pur- 
pose, ethnological.  This  is  one  factor  that  made  his  work  what  it 
is.  The  other  was  the  completeness  with  which  he  carried  out  his 
plan.  For  the  first  time  there  was  presented  a  map  without  blank 
spaces.  Every  inch  of  territory  in  the  continent  north  of  the  Rio 
Grande,  and  every  tribe  and  band  inhabiting  this  territory,  were  at 
least  implicitly  accounted  for.  That  there  were  errors  is  inessential. 
Anyone  can  correct  mistakes.  But  by  the  mere  completeness  of 
Powell's  classification,  however  faulty  it  might  be,  a  standard  had 
for  the  first  time  been  set  which  could  never  be  receded  from.  In 
these  two  factors  then,  simplicity  of  purpose  rigidly  adhered  to,  and 
systematic  completeness,  lay  the  value  of  Powell's  work.  It  was 
the  achievement  not  of  a  thinker,  but  of  an  executive.  But  in  that 
fact  lay  its  vitality,  its  success,  and  its  influence.  And  it  was  fitting 
that  this  great  work  should  be  an  emanation  from  the  official  national 
ethnological  institution  and  that  it  should  appear  under  the  name  of 
its  director  and  founder.  It  is  well  known  that  Powell  himself  did 
not  carry  out  the  work  on  his  undertaking.  Another  hand,  that  of 
a  scholar-administrator,  was  necessary  for  the  fulfillment  and  reali- 
zation of  the  plan  ;  and  to  him  the  credit  that  is  his  due  will  come 
before  the  reckoning  is  done.  That  he  was  not  by  training  or  pro- 
fession an  anthropologist  will  make  his  distinction  all  the  greater. 
But  it  was  Powell's  mind  that  first  fully  conceived  the  idea  of  a 
classification,  and  planned  it  with  such  comprehensiveness  that  it 
will  long  be  the  basis  of  future  classifications ;  and  it  was  Powell's 
will  and  character  that  held  to  the  idea,  that  found  the  man  fit  to 
carry  it  out,  and  that  called  into  being  and  maintained  the  national 
institution  through  whose  accumulation  of  material  and  assemblage 
of  students  it  became  possible  to  achieve  its  execution.  So  it  was 
that  the  work  which  will  be  the  chief  monument  to  Powell's  anthro- 
pological fame  was  accomplished.  Its  importance  has  been  such 
that  to  us  of  a  younger  generation,  who  have  entered  the  study  of 
American  anthropology  since  the  appearance  of  his  paper,  it  is 
difficult  to  conceive  how  systematic  work  could  have  been  carried 
on  in  the  period,  which  to  our  eyes  seems  comparatively  one  of 
chaos,  previous  to  its  completion. 


KROEBER]   S  YSTEMA  TIC  NOMENCLA  TURE  IN  E THNOL  OGY  5  8 1 

In  one  respect  only  has  the  acceptance  of  Powell's  classification, 
which  otherwise  was  universal  and  immediate,  met  with  resistance 
and  partial  failure  :  on  the  side  of  nomenclature.  Some  of  the 
names  that  he  employed,  especially  for  the  larger  and  better  known 
families,  have  found  general  approval  ;  some  of  his  names  indeed 
had  been  in  common  use  long  before.  A  great  number  of  Powell's 
names  of  linguistic  stocks,  however,  were  to  all  intents  and  purposes 
new.  Many  were  to  be  found  only  in  obscure  and  uninfluential 
works  known  to  no  one  but  the  synonymist  and  the  specialist  in  the 
ethnology  or  philology  of  some  limited  region  ;  and,  what  is  more, 
many  of  these  practically  new  terms  were  used  to  replace  well- 
known  and  generally  used  names.  That  a  considerable  proportion 
of  these  names  that  owe  their  life  and  continuance  entirely  to  Powell 
are  long,  difficult  to  pronounce,  and  in  barbarous  and  unphonetic 
orthography  —  an  orthography  which  on  other  occasions  Powell 
himself  denounced  vigorously  and  effectively  —  is  perhaps  a  minor 
consideration,  but  one  that  has  also  been  of  consequence  in  pre- 
venting their  acceptance  in  many  quarters.  It  is  only  natural  that 
one  should  hesitate  before  using  such  words  as  Palaihnihan,  Moquel- 
umnan,  Kalapooian,  Skittagetan,  and  Koluschan. 

Essentially,  however,  the  unfortunateness  of  such  terms  lay  in 
the  fact  of  their  comparative  novelty  and  in  the  resulting  conse- 
quence that  a  double  nomenclature,  one  founded  on  general  and 
often  deserved  usage,  the  other  backed  by  the  importance  and  the 
official  authoritativeness  of  Powell's  classification,  was  thereby  intro- 
duced for  many  stocks.  While  names  are  only  handles  to  things 
and  means  to  an  end,  they  and  their  form  yet  derive  impor- 
tance and  merit  consideration  from  the  very  fact  that  they  are  a 
means  and  an  indispensable  one.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  the  nomen- 
clature of  ethnological  classification  is  entitled  to  consideration. 

A  few  instances  of  Powell's  stock  names,  as  compared  with 
those  in  current  use,  will  bring  out  more  clearly  the  facts  involved 
and  the  essential  principles  of  his  nomenclature. 

The  Indians  of  Queen  Charlotte  islands  formed  a  single,  com- 
pact, well-marked  linguistic  family.  They  lived  in  separate  villages 
and  had  a  well-developed  clan  organization.  They  were  however 
not  divided  into  true   tribes.     The  name  that  these  people  com- 


$82  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

monly  went  under  at  the  time  of  Powell's  classiiication»  and  still  go 
under  both  in  scientific  literature  and  in  current  designation,  was 
Haida  ;  a  name,  moreover,  not  confined  in  its  use  to  the  English 
language.  What  the  origin  of  this  name  is  does  not  matter  ;  that 
in  its  original  significance  it  was  the  proper  term  of  these  people  for 
themselves  is  unessential.  It  is  a  distinctive  term  which  sets  off 
the  people  of  this  linguistic  family  from  all  others,  and  which  is  the 
only  one  that  is  thus  distinctive  and  in  common  usage.  In  place 
of  this  well-established  name  Haida,  Powell  introduced  Skittagetan. 
This  is  the  adjective,  derived  by  the  ending  -an,  from  Skittaget,  a 
way  of  spelling  the  name  of  one  of  the  Haida  villages  generally 
known  as  Skidegate.  That  this  unusual  orthography  of  the  name 
of  the  village  was  chosen  by  Powell,  and  that  the  name  of  a  single 
village  of  the  stock  was  adopted  for  the  whole  stock  instead  of  the 
well-known  and  appropriate  name  in  current  usage,  was  not  due  to 
random  accident  or  any  censurable  desire  for  novelty  ;  but  to  the 
fact  that  the  first  writer  who  had  in  print  clearly  referred  to  these 
people  as  constituting  a  linguistic  group  distinct  from  others,  had 
happened  to  use  the  term  Skittaget  to  designate  them.  In  other 
words,  the  cause  of  the  employment  of  this  name  in  Powell's  classi- 
fication lay  in  the  fact  of  a  rigorous  application  of  the  principle  of 
priority  of  nomenclature. 

In  California,  between  the  Sacramento  river  and  the  crest  of  the 
Sierra  Nevada,  lived  a  body  of  Indians  speaking  clearly  related 
dialects.  Like  most  Indians  of  North  America,  they  had  no  name 
for  themselves  as  a  linguistic  family  ;  like  most  Indians  of  Cali- 
fornia, they  had  no  tribal  names,  for  they  possessed  no  tribes.  Their 
only  political  organization  was  on  a  basis  of  independent  village 
groups.  Clearly,  therefore,  there  was  no  native  name  in  existence 
which  could  be  taken  over  into  ethnology  without  a  change  of  de- 
notation to  designate  these  people  as  a  whole.  The  linguistic  unity 
of  the  group  was  recognized  in  print,  and  its  limits  sharply  and  on 
the  whole  correctly  drawn,  by  Powers  in  his  monumental  work 
"  The  Tribes  of  California,"  which  was  published  as  many  years 
before  the  appearance  of  Powell's  classification  as  have  elapsed 
from  that  date  to  the  present  time.  The  name  used  by  Powers  for 
these  people,  and  used  also  by  Powell  himself  in  his  linguistic  ap- 


KROEBER]    SYSTEMATIC  NOMENCLATURE  IN  ETHNOLOGY  583 

pendix  to  Powers'  volume,  was  Maidu.  This  name  means  **  man" 
or  '*  person  '*  in  the  greater  number  of  the  dialects  of  this  stock  and  is 
therefore  as  appropriate  a  term  as  could  be  found  under  the  circum- 
stances. The  Indians  all  know  the  meaning  of  the  word ;  and 
that  the  white  inhabitants  of  the  region  are  unacquainted  with  it  is 
no  argument  against  it,  for  the  only  term  that  they  employ  is  **  Dig- 
ger,'* which  is  applied  indiscriminately  to  the  Indians  of  at  least  a 
dozen  distinct  linguistic  families  and  of  several  states.  In  1877,  in 
his  appendix  to  Powers'  work,  Powell  had  not  formulated  the  doc- 
trine of  priority  of  nomenclature,  and  therefore  accepted  and  in  fact 
helped  to  establish  the  entirely  appropriate  and  in  every  way  reason- 
able term  Maidu.  In  1891,  in  his  general  classification,  he  an- 
nounced the  principle  of  priority  ;  and,  pursuing  it  consistently,  took 
from  the  same  short  and  uninfluential  publication,  however  well 
done  a  piece  of  work  it  may  have  been  in  its  time,  from  which  he 
had  derived  other  terms,  the  name  Pujunan  for  the  Maidu.  Latham, 
using  the  incomplete  and  unsatisfactory  material  available  at  an 
earlier  period,  had  attempted  a  classification,  which  on  many  points 
has  proved  correct,  of  the  numerous  native  languages  of  the  Pacific 
Coast.  With  the  fragmentariness  of  his  knowledge,  and  his  remote- 
ness from  the  region  with  which  he  was  dealing,  he  was  hard  put 
to  it  for  terms  by  which  to  call  the  linguistic  groups  which  he  estab- 
lished. The  Pujuni  had  been  regarded  or  called,  in  the  terminology 
of  those  days,  a  tribe.  Actually  the  name  is  only  that  of  a  village  ; 
of  a  place,  not  of  a  body  of  people.  In  default  of  anything  else, 
however,  and  under  the  necessity  of  finding  some  designation, 
Latham  selected  at  random  this  term  Pujuni ;  and,  as  he  was  the 
first  to  refer  to  the  Maidu  or  any  part  of  them  as  a  linguistic  group, 
his  name  was  entitled,  by  Powell's  law  of  priority,  to  become  the 
standard  and  permanent  designation  of  the  stock.  If  the  name 
Maidu  could  have  been  thereby  done  away  with  and  blotted  out  of 
existence,  no  great  harm  would  have  been  done,  even  though 
Pujuni  is  less  appropriate  as  a  designation  for  the  whole  stock  than 
Maidu.  But  Maidu  had  come  into  common  scientific  usage  through 
its  employment  in  the  only  work  which  up  to  that  time,  or  for  that 
matter  up  to  this  day,  has  treated  comprehensively  and  systemati- 
cally of  the  Indians  of  all  California.     Two  terms  of  the  same  de- 


584  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  \jti.  s.,  7,  1905 

notation  were  therefore  set  into  use  by  Powell's  adoption  of  Pujunan. 
In  the  absence  of  any  tribal  divisions  or  other  political  organization, 
it  is  usually  necessar>',  even  in  purely  ethnological  descriptions,  to 
designate  these  people  by  the  name  of  their  linguistic  stock.  The 
double  terminology  accordingly  results  in  the  objectionable  condition 
of  the  same  people,  ethnologically  considered,  being  called  by  one 
name  and  linguistically  considered  by  another.  Nothing  but  diffi- 
culty and  confusion  can  arise  from  the  double  nomenclature. 

One  of  the  great  families  of  North  America  is  among  those  in 
connection  with  which  Buschmann  attained  to  ethnological  and  philo- 
logical fame  ;  the  Athabaskan.  Buschmann,  Gallatin,  and  others 
have  written  the  name  Athapaskan  and  Athapascan,  and  the  latter  is 
the  form  adopted,  again  on  the  principle  of  priority,  by  Powell. 
The  name  has  had  a  more  extensive  and  general  geographical 
than  ethnological  use.  It  is  the  name  of  a  large  lake  in  north- 
western America  and  the  official  designation  of  a  governmentally 
constituted  territory  and  future  province  of  the  Dominion  of  Canada. 
Geographers  and  the  government  of  Canada  have  written  and  still 
write  Athabaska  and  Athabasca.  In  the  case  of  this  stock  name 
the  difference  between  the  terms  in  question  is  a  trivial  one,  that  of 
a  single  letter ;  but  comparatively  slight  as  the  moment  of  this  letter 
may  seem  to  be,  it  is  yet  unnecessary  and  therefore  unfortunate, 
especially  in  a  matter  of  science,  that  this  widely  known  name 
should  have  been  made  to  have  one  form  when  employed  ethno- 
logically, and  another  in  its  political  and  geographical  sense.  It  is 
not  in  the  least  a  question  of  whether  Athabascan  or  Athapascan  is 
the  more  correct  spelling.  Powell  himself  has  insisted  that  the 
appropriateness  of  any  term  according  to  its  usage  in  the  language 
from  which  it  is  taken  is  not  essential  ;  and  everyone  will  be  dis- 
posed to  agree  with  him,  at  least  to  the  extent  that  such  appropri- 
ateness is  one  of  the  less  important  considerations  in  nomenclature. 
Moreover,  without  going  into  the  origin  and  history  of  the  word,  it 
is  practically  certain  that  neither  Athabascan  nor  Athapascan  is  an 
accurate  phonetic  representation  of  the  word  as  it  was  spoken  by 
the  Indians,  for  it  is  well  known  that  there  is  scarcely  one  Indian 
word  in  a  hundred,  geographical  or  otherwise,  which  has  passed  into 
civilized  usage  and  is  so  rendered  orthographically  as  to  reproduce 


KROEBER]   SYSTEMATIC  NOMENCLATURE  IN  ETHNOLOGY  585 

exactly  its  original  phonetic  form.  Whether  b  or  p  should  be  used 
by  ethnologists  is  a  matter  of  utter  indifference  as  long  as  uniformity 
is  obtained  ;  and  therefore  the  form  which  has  the  widest  usage,  and 
the  promise  of  most  permanent  usage,  would  seem  to  be  the  desir- 
able one.  Every  one  would  probably  agree  that  all  interests  will 
be  best  subserved  by  the  universal  acceptance  of  the  most  desirable 
form  and  the  suppression  of  all  others.  Viewed  under  this  aspect, 
what  chance  of  survival  and  final  adoption  has  a  form,  based  on  a 
single  publication  issued  a  generation  or  two  after  the  term  had 
passed  into  wide-spread  employment,  limited  to  technical  ethno- 
logical use,  and  with  no  advantage  of  a  more  reasonable  orthography 
in  its  favor,  as  against  the  form  of  the  name  appearing  in  every 
school  geography  and  standard  atlas,  and  written  annually  in  thou- 
sands of  official  documents  and  on  tens  of  thousands  of  letters  ? 

These  are  typical  cases  of  the  names  adopted  by  Powell  and 
given  a  wide  currency  through  the  authoritativeness  of  his  work. 
The  inconveniences  caused  by  the  introduction  of  these  new  forms 
by  the  side  of  the  names  then  and  still  current,  may  seem  trivial ; 
but  in  the  cumulative  course  of  time  the  confusions  and  additional 
difficulties  which  the  new  forms  will  cause  must  be  considerable  and 
regrettable.  Essentially  all  the  mischief  is  due  to  the  adoption  by 
Powell  of  the  one  principle  of  priority  of  nomenclature.  Allied  in 
his  mind  to  this  principle  was  the  idea  that  names  should  be  denot- 
ive,  not  connotive  or  descriptive  :  that  any  name,  irrespective  of  its 
origin  or  the  history  of  its  use,  which  denoted  a  family,  was  a  fit 
name  to  be  used  for  such  family  ;  and  that  any  name  which  was 
in  other  respects  satisfactory  should  not  be  given  up  because  in  its 
original  meaning  it  was  inappropriate.  That  the  name  of  a  linguis- 
tic family  rested  on  a  misunderstanding,  or  that  it  was  a  term  of 
opprobrium  in  the  language  of  another  family,  was  not  to  militate 
against  its  acceptance  in  science,  if  only  it  fulfilled  the  other  requi- 
site conditions  entitling  it  to  usage.  To  this  last  principle  everyone 
would  be  inclined  to  agree,  if  not  absolutely,  at  least  within  reason- 
able bounds.  Other  things  equal,  a  fit  name,  if  possible  the  name 
of  the  people  for  themselves,  is  preferable  to  any  other,  just  as 
names  in  phonetically  correct  orthography,  and  names  easily  pro- 
nounceable, are  preferable  to  others ;  but,  as  Powell  has  pointed  out. 


J 


5 86  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

the  Indians  of  most  linguistic  families  in  North  America  have  no 
name  for  themselves  as  linguistic  families.  Over  the  greater  part 
of  the  continent  there  are  tribes,  which  have  tribal  names ;  but  the 
linguistic  families  are  usually  of  large  extent  and  as  a  rule  no  tribe 
has  a  name  for  the  whole  linguistic  family  to  which  it  belongs. 
Algonkin,  a  name  which  everyone  accepts,  is  originally  the  name 
of  a  tribe.  The  eastern  members  of  the  Algonkin  family,  such  as 
the  Micmac,  and  the  western  members,  such  as  the  Blackfeet,  did 
not  even  know  of  each  other's  existence.  It  is  obvious  that  in  this 
case  a  native  name  for  the  entire  family  is  out  of  the  question.  The 
same  is  true  of  most  other  families  on  the  continent.  Siouan, 
Shoshonean,  and  Caddoan  are  other  names  designating  important 
families  and  taken  from  the  names  of  single  tribes ;  and  no  one  but 
a  purist  would  dream  of  finding  fault  with  them.  They  are  em- 
ployed by  every  one  with  the  same  significance :  to  designate  all 
tribes  belonging  to  certain  linguistic  groups,  and  no  others.  All 
the  essential  requirements  of  a  scientific  name,  that  it  should  denote 
one  thing,  all  of  that  thing,  and  nothing  but  that  thing,  are  therefore 
fulfilled  by  such  terms  as  these.  Eskimo  is  another  word  that  is 
satisfactory  in  every  respect,  for  no  confusion  has  ever  arisen 
through  its  use.  Who  cares  now  whether  it  is  a  term  of  contempt 
meaning  raw-flesh-eaters  in  the  language  of  an  alien  stock,  and  that 
it  was  unknown  to  certainly  the  greater  part  of  the  Eskimo  ?  The 
Eskimo  have  a  name  for  themselves,  Inuk,  which  means  "person," 
and  which,  in  most  cases  at  least,  they  apply  only  to  themselves  and 
not  to  the  Indians  or  whites  of  whom  they  have  knowledge.  This, 
being  a  native  term  with  the  same  signification  as  our  "  Eskimo," 
has  sometimes  been  used  by  authors  ;  but  difficulties  at  once  arise 
from  such  usage.  Where  one  dialect  says  Inuk,  others  say  Inung. 
The  plurals  Inuks  or  Inungs  are  false  English  plurals.  The  native 
plural,  which  alone  should  be  used  if  we  insist  on  native  terms,  is 
Innuit.  To  ask  everyone  who  will  ever  speak  of  the  Eskimo  to 
remember  this  plural,  which  is  so  abnormal  in  our  language,  or  to 
believe  that  these  singular  and  plural  forms  could  be  generally  used 
without  frequent  confusion,  is  unreasonable.  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
the  people  who  have  employed  Inuk  and  Innuit  instead  of  Eskimo 
have  been  the  very  ones   to  speak  of  **an   Innuit'*  and  of  **  the 


KROEBER]   SYSTEMATIC  NOMENCLATURE  IN  ETHNOLOGY  587 

Innuits,"  terms  as  barbarous  as  **  an  Americans  "  or  "  the  French- 
mens."  It  is  thus  evident  that  the  persistent  search  for  names  that 
are  appropriate  and  correct  in  form  must  in  certain  cases  be  fruit- 
less, and  must  frequently  lead,  not  to  greater  purity,  but  to  greater 
inappropriateness  and  barbarity  of  expression.  The  principle  which 
seems  the  only  safe  and  wise  one  to  follow  is  to  regard  every  name, 
once  it  is  used  ethnological ly,  as  part  of  the  scientific  civilized  lan- 
guage in  which  the  work  in  which  it  occurs  is  written,  and  to  treat 
it  accordingly,  irrespective  of  its  original  meaning  or  its  original 
form.  Of  course,  where  a  new  name  is  to  be  coined,  or  where  a 
choice  is  to  be  made  between  two  names  neither  of  which  has 
acquired  a  predominance  in  usage,  it  is  desirable  that  the  name 
chosen  should  be  as  appropriate  in  meaning,  and  as  correct  in  form,  as 
possible ;  but  where  a  name  is  once  established,  whether  through 
the  acceptance  of  the  law  of  priority  or  through  usage,  nothing  can 
be  gained  and  much  lost  by  allowing  any  room  to  considerations  of 
appropriateness  and  correctness.  With  this  principle  of  Powell's 
then,  that  names  are  only  handles  and  that  it  is  therefore  sufficient 
if  they  are  exactly  denotive,  every  one  not  actuated  by  motives  of 
sentiment  will  agree.  It  is  Powell's  other  principle,  that  priority 
should  be  the  deciding  factor  in  the  choice  of  names,  that  is 
vulnerable. 

The  advocated  law  of  priority  in  ethnological  nomenclature  is 
taken  directly,  with  only  such  modifications  as  are  necessary  to 
altered  conditions,  from  the  laws  governing  the  artificial  system  of 
nomenclature  now  universally  obtaining  in  the  biological  sciences.^ 
It  was  therefore  introduced  merely  through  an  analogy,  and  it  be- 
comes  obvious  that  if  the  analogy  between  ethnology  and  biology 


*  The  chief  provisions  of  the  law  of  priority  in  nomenclature  as  formulated  by 
Powell,  are  that  "the  name  originally  given  by  the  founder  .  .  .  to  .  .  .  a  family  .  .  . 
shall  be  permanently  retained  ";  that  <*  a  family  name  once  established  shall  not  be  can- 
celled in  subsequent  division"  of  the  family  ;  and  that  **  the  original  orthography  of  a 
name  shall  be  rigidly  preserved."  It  is  by  following  these  principles  that  he  adopts  the 
almost  unknown  Skittagetan  instead  of  Haida,  the  unknown  Pujunan  instead  of  his  own 
currently  known  and  accepted  and  appropriate  Maidu,  the  divergent  Athapascan  in  place 
of  the  officially  fixed  Athabascan  and  Athabaskan,  Eskimauan  in  place  of  the  ortho- 
graphically  more  reasonable  Eskimoan,  Koluschan  instead  of  Tlingit,  Mariposan  instead  of 
Yokuts,  Copehan  instead  of  Wintun,  Kulanapan  instead  of  Pomo,  and  Sastean  instead 
of  Shasta. 


588  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

is  not  real,  or  even  if  only  it  is  not  complete,  the  adoption  of  biologi- 
cal principles  must  be  attended  with  unsatisfactory  results.      Powell 
himself  clearly  recognized  that  the  basis  of  his  law  of  priority  was 
only  one  of  analogy,  and  he  raises  the  question  whether  the  analogy 
between  the  two  sciences  is  sufficiently  complete  to  justify  his  course. 
He  concludes  that  it  is  ;  but  the  fact  that  his  terminology  has  met 
with  so  much  resistance,  while  his  classification  itself  has  been  both 
universally  accepted  and  of  profound  influence,  has  left  the  ques- 
tion open. 

The  essential  defect  of  the  principle  of  priority  lies  in  the  as- 
sumption that  conditions  in  ethnology  are  parallel  to  those  in  biol- 
ogy. For  many  years  now  an  artificial  nomenclature  has  been  ac- 
cepted and  has  held  universal  sway,  except  on  the  part  of  a  few 
fanatics,  in  all  biology.  Whether  this  system  of  nomenclature  will 
continue  to  be  used  indefinitely,  or  whether  in  the  course  of  time  it 
will  be  superseded,  does  not  now  matter.  Until  now  at  least  it  has 
been  indispensable.  Without  it  all  systematic  biology  would  be 
reduced  at  one  blow  to  an  utter  chaos.  In  this  system  of  biological 
nomenclature  the  principle  of  priority  has  been  an  essential  ele- 
ment ;  and  while  there  is  some  tendency  at  the  present  day,  and 
one  that  is  likely  to  become  stronger,  to  restrict  the  absolute  opera- 
tion of  this  principle  of  priority,  the  essential  necessity  of  this  law 
is  almost  universally  recognized.  The  law  of  priority  in  biological 
nomenclature  is  however  only  a  means  to  an  end  ;  this  end  being 
the  establishment  of  a  uniform  and  stable  artificial  nomenclature 
irrespective  of  popular  and  general  usage.  This  in  fact  is  the  pur- 
pose and  aim  of  the  standard  biological  nomenclature  ;  to  be  inter- 
national instead  of  national,  and  to  be  free  from  the  variable  and 
changing  effects  of  current  usage  by  the  substitution  of  a  rigid  and 
automatically  operative  system  whose  value  lies  in  the  fact  that  the 
terms  which  it  provides  are  artificial.  It  is  in  these  two  factors, 
internationality  and  artificiality,  contributory  to  uniformity  and  sta- 
bility, that  the  same  system  of  nomenclature  breaks  down  when  it 
is  applied  to  the  kindred  but  distinct  science  of  ethnology. 

The  first  aim  of  artificial  biological  nomenclature,  the  finding  of 
a  terminology  which  shall  rise  above  the  varying  usage  of  national- 
ities to  an  international  and  cosmopolitan  plane,  is  from  the  very 


kroeber]   S  YSTEMA  TIC  NOMENCLA  TURK  IN  E THNOL  OGY  5  89 

nature  of  things  rendered  superfluous  in  the  case  of  names  of  bodies 
of  people.  Such  names  are  not,  like  the  popular  names  of  animals 
and  plants,  common  nouns  forming  an  integral  part  of  a  language, 
but  are  proper  names  which  can  be  and  are  equally  used  in  any 
language.  The  names  of  the  animals  and  plants  known  to  the 
people  speaking  any  language  are  found  in  its  dictionaries ;  the 
names  of  the  tribal,  linguistic,  and  national  groups  known  to  the 
same  language  are  found  in  its  encyclopedias.  **  Pomo "  and 
"Eskimo"  will  never  form  part  of  English,  or  of  any  other  lan- 
guage, in  the  same  way  that  "elk**  and  ** eagle'*  and  "oak"  do; 
and  what  is  more,  they  will  be  and  are  susceptible  of  identical  use 
in  French  and  German  and  Russian  and  every  other  language. 
The  first  need  of  biological  nomenclature,  the  intemationality  of  the 
terms  used,  is  therefore  not  felt  in  ethnology ;  for  the  terms  with 
which  it  deals  in  designating  bodies  of  people  are  in  the  nature  of 
things  international. 

And  so  when  we  come  to  the  second  need  of  biological  nomen- 
clature, that  its  terms  shall  be  rigorous  and  fixed  in  denotation  and 
therefore  artificial,  conditions  are  also  radically  different  in  ethnology. 
Scientific  biological  nomenclature  is  something  apart  from  daily  life. 
It  is  confined  absolutely  to  biology.  It  does  not  enter  into  litera- 
ture or  art  or  law,  nor  does  it  obtain  official  or  governmental  recog- 
nition. This  aloofness  which  its  system  of  nomenclature  gives  to 
biological  science  is  felt  by  all  broad-minded  biologists  as  an  evil ; 
but  under  present  conditions  a  necessary  one.  In  ethnology  it 
would  be  an  equal  evil,  and  an  unnecessary  one.  It  is  not  only 
anthropologists  who  deal  with  and  speak  of  tribes  and  nationalities 
and  other  divisions  of  people  ;  all  of  us,  directly  or  indirectly,  are  in 
relations  of  many  kinds  with  these  divisions  of  humanity.  They  are 
not  only  parts  of  nature  like  inanimate  objects  and  animals ;  they 
are  men  like  ourselves,  —  men  with  whom  we  trade  and  converse 
and  intermarry,  with  whom  we  make  treaties,  and  for  whom  we 
make  laws.  Mankind  will  therefore  always  have  names  for  tribal 
and  national  and  linguistic  divisions,  irrespective  of  what  organized 
professional  anthropology  may  or  may  not  do ;  and  these  names, 
being  proper  terms  and  therefore  denotive,  and  not  like  the  real 
words  forming  an  integral  part  of  a  living  language  connotive,  ful- 


\ 


590  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

1511,  in  potentiality  at  least,  all  the  essential  requirements  of  exact 
scientific  nomenclature.  There  is  therefore  nothing  to  be  gained  by 
anthropologists  in  the  attempt  to  enforce  recognition  for  parallel 
terms,  identical  in  all  the  principles  which  they  observe,  and  differ- 
ing only  in  their  particular  form,  from  those  in  the  current  usage  of 
mankind.  If  the  attempt  to  introduce  such  a  parallel  nomenclature 
into  ethnology  should  ever  be  successful  for  any  short  period,  it 
would  lead  only  to  a  separation  and  greater  aloofness  of  anthropo- 
logical science  from  the  great  main  stream  and  development  of 
civilization.  It  would  render  ethnology  a  more  isolated  and  self- 
contained  thing,  more  useless,  less  effective,  and  less  influential.  It 
would  tend  toward  making  it  a  dead  science  instead  of  a  liye  issue 
in  the  world.  It  would  give  it  rigidity  and  artificiality  without  any 
compensation.  And  when  the  final  tale  is  told,  when  a  generation 
or  a  century  has  passed,  and  the  reckoning  is  made,  who  can  doubt 
which  would  prevail,  —  the  terminology  of  mankind  as  a  whole, 
however  chaotic  and  provincial  but  real,  or  the  reactionary  and 
isolating  terminology  of  a  small  body  of  professional  anthropologists  ? 
Why,  therefore,  trouble  with  any  artificial  nomenclature  in 
ethnology  at  all  ?  All  that  we  want  is  to  have  names  that  shall 
mean  only  one  thing,  and  to  have  not  more  than  one  name  for  that 
thing.  These  conditions  are  furnished  in  the  names  already  in  popu- 
lar and  general  usage.  Here  then  should  be  the  test  and  here  the 
discrimination  when  there  is  question  between  more  names  than 
one.  The  name  which  is  already  prevailing,  or  which  all  things 
considered  bids  fair  to  prevail,  is  the  one  which  we  should  choose. 
That  name  will  prevail  in  any  case.  The  attempt  to  substitute  for 
it  a  name  perhaps  better  in  itself,  but  resting  only  on  an  artificial 
foundation,  can  never  be  permanently  successful.  To  resist  the 
general  tendencies  associated  with  the  march  and  development  of 
the  world  is  hopeless  for  so  puny  a  part  of  the  world  movement  as 
ethnology  at  its  best  can  hope  to  be.  What  ethnological  science 
can  do,  is  to  cooperate  with  the  inevitable  movements  of  civilization 
instead  of  opposing  them,  and  to  guide  and  direct  them  in  a  reason- 
able and  profitable  manner.  The  popular  mind  is  no  more  inclined 
than  that  of  the  specialist  to  be  burdened  and  confused  with  two 
names  for  one  thing  or  by  two  orthographies  for  one  word,  nor. 


KROEBER]   SYSTEMATIC  NOMENCLATURE  IN  ETHNOLOGY  S9I 

Other  things  equal,  does  it  prefer  the  inappropriate  and  incorrect 
word  to  the  right  one.  It  is  only  in  knowledge  and  breadth  of 
experience  that  popular  usage  is  at  fault.  Here  is  the  function  of 
the  ethnologist.  Where  two  names  are  in  the  balance  in  the  scales 
of  general  usage,  where  the  weight  of  usage  is  equal  between  two 
orthographies  of  the  same  name,  the  influence  of  ethnologists  should 
be  cast  in  favor  of  the  more  rational  one.  Where  one  name  or  one 
orthography  predominates  and  gives  promise  of  predominating,  it  is 
the  opportunity  and  business  of  ethnologists  to  secure  so  far  as  pos- 
sible universal  acceptance  and  usage  of  the  prevailing  term.  In 
these  endeavors  they  will  be  given  a  ready  hearing  by  the  world ; 
but  in  attempting  to  drag  the  forgotten  and  useless  to  light,  to 
.revivify  the  dead,  to  duplicate  an  already  confused  terminology,  and 
to  separate  the  course  of  anthropological  development  from  that  of 
the  world,  they  will  be  passed  by  unheeded,  and  their  work  will  be 
brushed  aside,  forgotten,  and  superseded  by  later  generations. 

Usage  then,  and  usage  as  wide  as  possible,  and  not  priority,  must 
be  the  determining  test  in  systematic  ethnological  nomenclature  ; 
but  it  must  be  supplemented  by  reason.  Because  the  average 
American  calls  the  Indians  of  most  of  the  twenty-two  linguistic 
families  of  California  all  indiscriminately  **  Diggers,"  is  no  reason 
for  advocating  the  use  of  the  term  Digger  to  designate  these 
twenty-two  families.  The  average  layman,  being  without  special 
ethnological  proclivities,  and  having  no  motive  for  distinguishing 
between  Indians  of  different  linguistic  families,  does  not  do  so. 
Ethnology  does  and  must  make  such  distinctions  and  must  have 
terms  for  them.  Further,  there  is  a  large  element  of  the  public,  a 
larger  one  proportionally  in  the  case  of  ethnology  than  of  biology, 
and  a  growing  and  intelligent  element,  which  is  interested  in  these 
and  other  distinctions,  and  which  is  ready  to  follow  the  lead  of 
ethnologists.  Why  then  undo  all  this  progress  that  has  been  made, 
by  attempting  to  set  up  a  new  nomenclature  which  has  no  motive 
except  the  blind  pursuit  of  a  principle  borrowed  from  a  differently 
conditioned  science  ?  **  Pomo  ''  was  originally  the  name  only  of 
one  village  in  Potter  valley,  California  ;  *'  Kulanapo  "  also  the  name 
of  only  one  village,  of  the  same  linguistic  stock,  on  Clear  lake. 
What  does  it  matter  that  Gibbs  in  1853  in  an  obscure  report  used 


592  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Kulanapo  to  designate  the  family  to  which  both  villages  belonged 
and  that  it  was  nearly  twenty-five  years  later  when  Stephen  Powers 
used  Porno  for  the  same  purpose  ?     The  latter  name  has  been  used 
again  and  again  in  scientific  and  popular  literature  and  is  known 
perhaps  to  millions  of  people,  and  certainly  intimately  to  thousands  ; 
Kulanapan  is  known  only  to  a  few  dozen  anthropologists.     If  Ku- 
lanapan  were  the  name  which  had  obtained  the  wider  usage,  we 
should  gladly  forgive  its  additional  two  syllables,  and  with  equal 
unprejudice  lend  it  our  support  in  the  hope  that  it  might  before 
long  entirely  supplant  the  rival  name  which  it  had  already  out- 
stripped.    Is  it  too  much  on  the  other  hand  to  ask  that  we  should 
forget  our  abstract  principles,  which  even  if  successful  can  lead  to 
nothing  essential  or  vital,  and  to  support  in  turn  the  name  Pomo, 
which,  as  facts  actually  stand,  is  the  one  that  predominates  and  will 
predominate  ? 

Because,  then,  usage,  and  not  priority,  should  govern  and  will 
govern  systematic  ethnological  nomenclature,  one  other  considera- 
tion, though  a  minor  one,  must  be  allowed.  Under  the  operation 
or  the  law  of  priority,  questions  of  correctness  and  appropriateness 
can  be  entirely  eliminated ;  but  when  the  appeal  is  to  the  bar  of 
popular  verdict,  conditions  are  slightly  altered,  in  that  considera- 
tions of  correctness  and  appropriateness  are  among  the  factors  that 
guide  the  popular  verdict.  Every  consideration  of  form,  including 
that  of  correctness,  is  subsidiary,  and  should  be  unhesitatingly  sac- 
rificed where  the  case  is  otherwise  clear.  When  a  name  is  gener- 
ally accepted,  let  us  take  it  at  its  face  value,  and  forget  its  history 
and  original  legitimacy.  Its  usage  is  sufficient  sanction  and  should 
make  it  more  than  welcome.  But  where  the  scale  is  nearly  in  the 
balance,  or  where  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  the  tendency  of  the 
future  will  be  toward  the  name  which  is  at  present  less  used  but 
which  is  inherently  better,  it  will  be  well  to  pause  before  rendering 
a  definite  verdict.  It  is  a  disadvantage  of  usage  as  a  canon  that  it  is 
at  times  indeterminate  and  that  no  vote  or  poll  is  possible  or  desir- 
able ;  and  for  this  reason,  with  usage  as  a  guide,  we  shall  always 
have  a  few  terms  on  which  opinions  will  differ.  But,  to  compen- 
sate, is  the  fact  that  this  occasional  indeterminateness  leaves  room 
and  provides  opportunity  for  improvement,  for  the  substitution  of 


KROEBER]    SYSTEMATIC  NOMENCLATURE  IN  ETHNOLOGY         •   S93 

the  better  name  for  the  worse,  and  of  the  better  form  for  the 
inferior.  It  is  well,  therefore,  to  go  slowly  and  consider  maturely. 
Sooner  or  later  the  cases  that  seem  most  indeterminate  will  solve 
themselves  ;  and  while  the  one  essential  criterion  should  always  be 
usage,  it  will  be  worth  while  at  least  to  consider  correctness  and 
appropriateness  of  names. 

The  time  is  ready  for  a  formal  abandonment  of  the  principle  of 
priority  in  systematic  ethnological  nomenclature.  It  is  not  ready, 
and  it  is  to  be  hoped  never  will  be  ready,  for  the  formal  establish- 
ment of  a  series  of  terms  based  on  any  artificial  principle  or  on  any 
contract  or  agreement.  The  biological  sciences  may  constitute 
themselves  an  independent  entity  sufficient  unto  themselves ;  eth- 
nology cannot  afford  to  do  so.  Its  last  court  of  appeal  will  always 
be,  not  the  opinions  of  a  small  body  of  professional  anthropologists, 
but  the  opinion  of  the  world  at  large.  All  that  is  desirable  now  is 
the  abandonment  of  theories  and  principles  which  lead  aside  or  back- 
ward. It  was  as  head  of  the  institution  officially  devoted  by  the 
people  of  this  country  to  the  furtherance  of  ethnological  study,  that 
Powell  prepared  and  had  prepared  the  invaluable  classification  which 
we  all  respect  and  use  and  shall  long  continue  to  use.  It  will  be 
particularly  fitting  if  the  movement  to  recede  from  the  one  defective 
position  in  his  work,  the  nomenclature,  emanates  from  this  same 
institution  which  is  now  carrying  on,  to  greater  achievements  it  is  to 
be  hoped,  the  work  which  he  founded.  Such  a  movement  would 
not  diminish  the  renown  of  his  greatest  life  work  ;  but,  by  making 
the  one  correction  necessary  to  perfect  it  in  its  fundamentals,  would 
notably  and  permanently  add  to  his  fame. 

Affiliated  Colleges, 

University  of  California, 
San  Francisco. 


THE   INDIAN   POPULATION   OF   CALIFORNIA 

By  C.    hart   MERRIAM 

California  at  the  time  of  its  discovery  was  more  densely  popu- 
lated than  any  area  of  equal  size  in  North  America.  Not  only  was 
this  the  case,  but  the  number  of  tribes  and  of  distinct  linguistic  stocks 
within  its  boundaries  nearly  equaled  those  of  all  the  rest  of  the 
continent  north  of  Mexico.  It  is  an  extraordinary  fact  that  among 
the  multitude  of  languages  spoken  there  were  at  least  two  dozen 
stocks  differing  from  one  another  more  than  German  from  English, 
or  Dutch  from  Italian.  This  points  to  a  very  remote  antiquity,  for 
languages  are  not  developed  in  a  day. 

Although  the  aboriginal  population  is  known  to  have  been 
exceptionally  large  —  owing  mainly  to  the  bounty  of  the  food 
supply  and  the  mildness  of  the  winter  climate  —  its  numerical 
measure  has  never  been  carefully  taken,  and  the  published  esti- 
mates differ  widely  in  their  totals.  In  seeking  a  basis  on  which  to 
frame  a  logical  estimate,  one  is  confronted  by  the  fact  that  the  only 
reliable  statistics  for  any  considerable  part  of  the  state  are  those  of 
the  Mission  fathers,  prior  to  1834;  and  of  the  first  U.  S.  Indian 
commissioners  and  agents,  for  1850-1852.  The  records  of  the 
padres  relate  only  to  the  limited  area  dominated  by  the  missions  — 
a  belt  along  the  coast  from  San  Francisco  bay  southward  —  and 
deal  only  with  the  baptized  Indians,  making  no  attempt  to  give  the 
entire  population.  The  records  of  the  Indian  commissioners  relate 
mainly  to  tribes  living  along  the  western  base  of  the  Sierra  and  those 
of  the  northwestern  quadrant  of  the  state.  They  are  manifestly 
incomplete,  and  moreover  treat  of  a  period  so  late  that  the  native 
population  had  been  sorely  reduced  by  contact  with  the  whites.  It 
must  be  admitted  at  the  outset,  therefore,  that  no  data  exist  to  serve 
as  a  basis  for  an  accurate  estimate  of  the  aboriginal  population. 
Nevertheless,  if  it  is  possible  to  ascertain  approximately  the  number 

1  Read  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  San  Francisco, 
August  29. 

594 


MERRIAM]        THE  INDIAN  POPULATION  OF  CALIFORNIA  S9S 

of  inhabitants  of  an  area  of  considerable  size,  and  to  establish  a 
relation  between  the  density  of  population  of  this  area  and  that  of 
other  parts  of  the  state,  a  rough  estimate  for  the  whole  state  may 
be  ventured.  Fortunately,  the  records  for  the  Mission  strip  furnish 
material  for  such  an  estimate. 

The  Mission  strip,  even  if  allowed  to  spread  over  the  inner  Coast 
ranges  to  San  Joaquin  valley,  comprises  only  one-fifth  of  the  non- 
desert  part  of  the  state.  Hence  if  the  aboriginal  inhabitants  were 
evenly  distributed,  the  total  population  would  have  been  five  times 
that  of  this  area. 

Personal  observation  during  ten  years  of  field  work  in  California, 
in  the  course  of  which  I  have  enjoyed  unusual  opportunities  for 
noting  the  character  and  quantity  of  the  food  supply,  and  the 
location  of  Indian  villages  in  nearly  all  parts  of  the  state,  has  con- 
vinced me  that  throughout  the  non-desert  areas  the  food  supply  was 
surprisingly  bountiful  and  the  aboriginal  population  correspondingly 
large,  and  that  in  neither  of  these  respects  was  the  Mission  strip 
more  favored  than  other  areas.  Furthermore,  in  this  strip  the  pro- 
portion of  uninhabitable  land  was  at  least  as  large  as  elsewhere. 

Even  the  great  interior  valley,  in  spite  of  its  barren  places, 
abounded  in  food.  The  plains  were  inhabited  by  doves,  ground- 
squirrels  and  rabbits,  and  by  bands  of  antelope  and  herds  of  elk ; 
the  brushy  and  weedy  places  along  the  streams  gave  shelter  to 
countless  thousands  of  quail ;  the  Sacramento  and  San  Joaquin 
rivers  with  their  sloughs  and  tributaries  swarmed  with  waterfowl 
and  teemed  with  mussels  and  fish  ;  a  sea  of  wild  oats  covered  the 
land,  and  broad  belts  of  noble  oaks  followed  the  rivers,  affording  a 
prodigious  store  of  acorns. 

The  foothills  and  lower  slopes  of  the  Sierra  for  a  distance  of 
500  miles,  and  the  inner  Coast  ranges  for  a  still  greater  distance, 
were  likewise  in  the  main  carpeted  with  wild  oats,  interrupted  by 
thickets  of  berry- bearing  manzanitas  and  shaded  by  open  forests 
of  nut-bearing  Digger  pines  and  numerous  kinds  of  oaks,  which 
together  furnished  the  principal  food  of  the  people.  Throughout 
this  vast  area  fish  were  plentiful  in  the  streams,  and  game  —  rabbits, 
ground-squirrels,  quail,  and  deer  —  overran  the  land.  The  north- 
western quadrant  was  equally  favored  and  possessed  several  of  the 
best  salmon  and  eel  rivers  of  the  state. 


596  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

The  staple  food  was  not  everywhere  the  same :  Along  the  Col- 
orado river  it  was  the  mesquite  bean ;  in  the  deserts  east  of  the 
Sierra,  the  rich  oily  nuts  of  the  pinon  or  nut  pine ;  in  the  north- 
west and  along  salmon  streams  elsewhere,  salmon  and  acorns ;  in 
the  interior  generally  —  the  Sierra  region,  Coast  ranges  and  included 
valleys  —  the  acorns  of  a  number  of  species  of  oaks.  Indeed,  in 
most  parts  of  California  acorns  were  and  still  are  the  staff  of  life. 
They  are  pounded  into  meal,  which  is  leached  to  take  out  the  bitter 
taste  and  then  boiled  in  baskets  by  means  of  hot  stones,  forming  a 
thick  jelly-like  nutritious  mush.  Acorns  also  are  made  into  bread. 
The  yield  is  not  constant,  having  cycles  of  abundance  and  scarcity, 
but  since  in  most  localities  half  a  dozen  or  more  kinds  occur 
together,  and  since  all  of  these  rarely  if  ever  fail  the  same  year,  an 
absolute  failure  is  probably  unknown.  In  case  of  scarcity  of  acorns, 
however,  the  large  nut  of  the  California  horse-chestnut  or  buck- 
eye—  a  widespread  and  prolific  bearer  —  was  commonly  used  as  a 
substitute.  Buckeye  meal  needs  more  washing  to  take  out  the 
poison,  but  makes  fairly  good  bread.  Bread  was  made  also  from 
the  nuts  of  the  California  laurel  {Utnbellularia),  In  certain  areas 
oatmeal  mush,  made  from  wild  oats,  formed  an  important  part  of 
the  food ;  and  edible  roots  were  always  to  be  had.  But  acorns 
were  rarely  wanting,  for  it  was  the  universal  practice  to  gather  and 
store  each  fall  enough  to  last  two  years,  so  that  if  a  bad  year  came 
the  people  would  not  suffer.  Similarly,  dried  salmon,  manzanita 
berries,  mesquite  beans,  pine  nuts,  and  other  staple  commodities 
were  gathered  and  stored  in  large  quantities. 

From  these  facts  it  is  obvious  that  the  food  supply  was  adequate 
for  a  very  large  population  ;  and  the  number  of  occupied  villages 
at  the  beginning  of  the  gold  period  shows  conclusively  that  the 
number  of  inhabitants  was  very  great  —  though  probably  never 
large  enough  to  press  on  the  food  supply. 

There  is  every  reason  to  believe,  therefore,  that  the  average 
density  of  population  (excluding  the  deserts  and  high  boreal 
mountains)  was  at  least  as  great  as  in  the  Mission  strip ;  and  since 
this  strip  comprises  only  one-fifth  of  the  non-desert  area,  the  total 
population  should  have  been  five  times  that  of  the  Mission  strip. 
With  this  assumption  as  a  basis,  let  us  examine  the  data. 


MERRIAM]        THE  INDIAN  POPULATION  OF  CALIFORNIA  $97 

The  padres,  throughout  the  65  years  of  their  rule  (i  769-1 834), 
not  only  made  every  effort  to  bring  to  the  missions  and  baptize  as 
many  Indians  as  possible,  but  kept  a  careful  record  of  the  number 
baptized  each  year,  and  also,  from  time  to  time,  of  the  total  number 
present  at  all  the  missions.  The  period  of  most  rapid  growth  was 
the  decade  covering  the  end  of  the  i8th  century  and  the  beginning 
of  the  19th  (1795- 1 805),  during  which  the  number  swelled  from 
12,216  to  20,627  —  a  gain  of  8,41 1.  Then  the  rate  slackened  and 
a  quarter  of  a  century  was  needed  to  add  4,000.  In  1830  the 
number  had  reached  24,634,  and  in  1834  upward  of  30,000,  after 
which  it  fell  off  rapidly.  In  selecting  a  date  for  an  estimate  of  the 
population,  therefore,  we  have  little  choice,  it  being  necessary  to 
take  the  period  for  which  the  data  are  fullest  and  least  likely  to  lead 
to  error.  This  beyond  question  is  the  year  1834  —  the  year  in 
which  the  number  of  baptized  Indians  attained  its  maximum. 

The  number  of  these  being  known,  it  is  important  to  determine 
the  number  of  unbaptized  or  free  Indians.  This  unhappily  cannot 
be  done  with  any  degree  of  certainty.  The  Indians  brought  within 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  church  were  virtually  slaves  and  were  obliged 
to  perform  all  the  labor  of  the  missions.  Discontent  was  widespread 
and  often  led  to  desertion.  Deserters  were  pursued,  and  if  caught 
were  flogged  or  otherwise  punished.  Hence  it  is  not  difficult  to 
understand  why  the  continued  efforts  to  bring  in  new  recruits  were 
not  always  crowned  with  success,  why  so  large  a  part  of  the  popula- 
tion kept  away  from  the  missions,  and  why  the  natives  came  to  be 
disposed  in  two  sharply  contrasted  classes  —  the  baptized  and  the 
unbaptized  —  called  by  the  padres  respectively  'neophytes'  and 
'  gentiles.'  While  the  record  is  full  as  to  the  number  of  neophytes, 
it  is  silent  as  to  the  number  of  gentiles.  This  is  the  weak  point  in 
the  argument  and  there  appears  to  be  no  way  of  getting  around  it. 
The  ratio  between  the  two  classes  was  ever  changing,  for  the  number 
of  neophytes  not  only  fluctuated  from  year  to  year,  but  showed  on 
the  whole  a  progressive  increase  up  to  1834,  the  year  in  which  the 
secularization  of  the  missions  took  place.  In  the  early  years  the 
gentiles  vastly  outnumbered  the  neophytes,  but  at  the  close  of  the 
mission  period  it  is  practically  certain  that  the  neophytes  largely 
outnumbered  the  gentiles.     It  being  necessary  to  assume  a  ratio,  I 


598  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

have  conjectured  that  in  1834  the  30,000  baptized  Indians  formed 
three-fourths ;  the  unbaptized  or  free  Indians  one-fourth  of  the 
native  population,  making  a  total  of  40,000  for  the  Mission  strip. 
This  is  believed  to  be  a  conservative  estimate. 

The  question  now  arises  as  to  the  native  population  of  the  rest 
of  the  state.  It  having  been  shown  that  the  aboriginal  population 
except  on  the  deserts  was  in  all  probability  fully  as  dense  as  that 
of  the  Mission  strip,  it  follows  that  the  whole  population  of  the  non- 
desert  part  would  be  five  times  that  of  the  Mission  strip,  or  200,000. 
But  this  takes  no  account  of  the  Modoc,  Washoo,  Paiute,  and  Sho- 
shonean  tribes  of  the  region  east  of  the  Sierra,  or  of  the  Mohave, 
Chemahueve,  and  Yuma  of  the  lower  Colorado,  whose  members 
living  within  the  state  must  have  numbered  collectively  at  least 
10,000.  Hence  the  total  Indian  population  of  California  at  the 
close  of  the  Mission  period  (1834)  could  hardly  have  been  less  than 
210,000. 

This  estimate  is  likely  to  err  on  the  conservative  side,  for 
although  under  Mission  rule  the  number  of  neophytes  continued  to 
increase,  the  death-rate  was  startlingly  high  and  the  population  as 
a  whole  steadily  decreased,  so  that  at  the  close  of  the  Mission 
period  it  had  already  undei^one  material  diminution.  The  padres 
state  that  up  to  the  year  1824  they  had  baptized  in  all  86,000 
persons,  of  whom  at  that  time  no  fewer  than  61,000  had  disap- 
peared. It  would  seem  a  conservative  estimate,  therefore,  to  assume 
that  during  the  65  years  of  Mission  rule  the  decrease  had  amounted 
to  10,000  persons.  Adding  this  number  to  the  40,000  already 
found  to  be  the  probable  native  population  of  the  Mission  strip  in 
1834  gives  50,000  as  approximately  the  population  before  it  had 
suffered  from  contact  with  the  Spaniards.  And  if  at  the  time  of  the 
discovery  of  California  the  population  of  the  coast  region  from  San 
Francisco  bay  southward  was  50,000,  the  population  of  the  main 
or  non-desert  part  of  the  state,  on  the  basis  here  adopted,  would 
have  been  250,000  (instead  of  200,000).  Adding  to  this  the  prob- 
able desert  population  of  10,000  gives  for  the  whole  state  at  the 
time  of  its  discovery  a  probable  population  of  260,000. 

It  may  be  urged  that  there  is  no  evidence  that  the  population 
was  equally  dense  in  different  parts  of  the  state  at  the  same  time. 


MERRiAM]        THE  INDIAN  POPULATION  OF  CALIFORNIA  599 

Admitting  this,  there  surely  is  no  evidence  to  the  contrary,  and  the 
known  facts  point  to  a  continuously  contemporaneous  population 
of  large  size  throughout  the  non-desert  parts  up  to  the  time  each 
area  in  turn  was  smitten  by  the  blight  of  foreign  invasion.  The 
widespread  bounty  of  the  food  supply,  the  freedom  from  intertribal 
wars  (except  in  the  northwest),  and  the  probable  absence  of  epi-* 
demic  diseases  until  introduced  by  the  whites,  all  point  in  this  direc- 
tion. 

Decrease  and  Extermination 

There  is  every  reason  to  believe  that  the  native  population,  from 
the  date  of  the  discovery  of  California  to  the  time  when  it  was 
shriveled  by  oppressive  contact  with  foreigners,  had  remained  rea- 
sonably constant.  It  may  be  assumed,  therefore,  that  the  number 
of  Indians  at  the  beginning  of  the  last  century  was  approximately 
260,000,  and  the  number  in  1834,  210,000. 

During  the  height  of  the  gold  period,  from  1850  to  1853  (dis- 
regarding Schoolcraft's  absurdly  low  estimate  of  32,000,  and  Bar- 
bour and  Wozencroft's  exaggerated  guess  of  200,000  to  300,000), 
at  least  three  estimates  were  published  by  men  whose  business  it 
was  to  deal  with  Indians.  Adam  Johnson,  sub-agent  in  charge  of 
the  Valley  Indians,  gave  the  number  as  80,000 ;  Gen.  E.  F.  Beale, 
superintendent  of  Indian  affairs,  as  75,000  to  100,000;  and  the 
Commissioner  of  Indian  Affairs,  as  100,000.  The  mean  of  these 
is  88,750,  which  probably  is  not  far  out  of  the  way. 

The  native  population  in  1856  was  estimated  by  Hittell  at  48,- 
100. 

Beginning  with  i860  and  continuing  to  the  present  time  the 
Federal  Census  has  recorded  the  number  of  Indians,  as  follows : 

In 


i860 

31.338 

1870 

29,025 

1880 

20,385 

1890 

16,624 

1900 

15.377 

In  spite  of  obvious  errors  and  discrepancies  these  statistics  are 
of  considerable  interest  and  in  the  main  may  be  regarded  as  approx- 
imately correct.  Up  to  1 900  they  doubtless  err  consistently  in 
underestimating  the  number  of  wild  or  *  uncivilized '  Indians  liv- 


600  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

ing  away  from  the  reservations,  of  which  no  count  was  made. 
The  omission  of  this  class  —  or  its  reduction  to  an  absurdity  —  is 
conspicuous  in  the  Census  of  1 890,  where  the  number  given  is  only 
43.  The  actual  number  at  this  date  could  not  have  been  fewer 
than  1,500  and  probably  exceeded  2,000. 

I  have  made  such  corrections  in  the  census  and  other  returns 
as  seemed  called  for  in  the  light  of  the  data  already  gathered,  and 
submit  the  results  as  my  personal  estimate  of  the  population  at 
different  times  during  the  century  ending  with  the  year  1900. 

Estimate  of  Probable  Indian  Population  of  California  at  Different 

Dates  from  1800  to  igoo. 


1800 

260,000 

1834 

210,000 

1849 

100,000 

1852 

85,000 

1856 

50,000 

i860 

35,000 

1870 

30,000 

1880 

20,500 

1890 

18,000 

1900 

15,500 

The .  tremendous  decrease  that  has  taken  place  during  the  last 
century  —  a  decrease  amounting  to  the  complete  annihilation  of 
scores  of  tribes  and  the  reduction  to  scattered  remnants  of  scores  of 
others  —  is  due  wholly  to  the  coming  of  the  white  man.  It  began 
in  the  early  days  of  the  mission  padres,  as  we  have  already  seen, 
and  has  continued  to  the  present  time.  While  in  the  main  gradual, 
there  were  two  periods  in  which  its  rate  was  suddenly  and  greatly 
accelerated.  The  first  of  these  was  the  period  immediately  follow- 
ing the  confiscation  of  the  missions,  beginning  in  1834;  the  second 
the  period  immediately  following  the  discovery  of  gold,  beginning 
in  1848. 

The  decrease  following  the  mission  period  was  startlingly  rapid. 
The  four  years  immediately  preceding  the  confiscation  of  the  mis- 
sions were  years  of  unprecedented  prosperity  and  of  marked  increase 
in  the  neophytes,  the  number  in  1834  having  attained  its  maximum 
of  upward  of  30,000.     By  means  of  this  multitude  of  subjugated 


MERRiAMj        THE  INDIAN  POPULATION  OF  CALIFORNIA  6oi 

Indians,  as  stated  by  Hittell  in  his  admirable  History  of  California^ 
the  flocks  of  the  mission  fathers  were  herded,  their  fields  tilled,  and 
the  value  of  their  properties  and  possessions  augmented  in  all  direc- 
tions. They  had  upward  of  420,000  cattle,  60,000  horses  and 
mules,  320,000  sheep,  goats,  and  hogs;  raised  more  than  200,000 
bushels  of  grain  and  beans,  and  the  income  for  the  year  exceeded 
a  million  of  dollars.  But  this  year  was  not  only  the  one  of  great- 
est material  prosperity  for  the  missions  ;  it  was  also  the  one  in  which 
their  doom  was  sounded  and  their  downfall  begun.  The  govern- 
ment issued  a  decree  providing  for  their  'secularization,'  and  the 
confiscation  of  the  properties  began  at  once.  So  fatal  was  the 
move,  and  so  swift  its  operation,  that  in  eight  years  the  neophytes 
had  dwindled  to  one-seventh  the  number  present  in  1834,  leaving 
only  4,450  at  the  missions.  This  does  not  imply  that  in  eight 
years  25,500  Indians  had  perished,  but  that  the  deaths  and  re- 
movals together  amounted  to  this  number.  In  the  succeeding 
years  the  neophytes  who  had  left  the  missions  found  themselves 
wholly  unable  to  cope  with  the  changed  conditions  and  soon  passed 
out  of  existence.  They  had  been  long  clamoring  for  freedom,  but 
when  it  came  were  unable  to  live  under  the  new  regime.  A  gen- 
eration of  bondage  had  unfitted  them  for  self  support ;  their  old 
homes  had  been  occupied  or  overrun  by  Spanish-Mexican  ranch- 
eros  and  they  found  themselves  unable  to  return  to  the  old  life  or 
to  adjust  themselves  to  the  new. 

It  may  be  argued  that  the  Indians  who  left  the  missions,  either 
before  or  after  their  confiscation,  and  also  the  free  or  wild  Indians 
of  the  same  territory,  had  fled  to  other  parts  of  the  state,  and  thus 
in  disappearing  from  the  Mission  strip  had  merely  moved  away. 
This  they  undoubtedly  did  to  a  certain  extent,  particularly  in  the 
Tulare  or  Tache  Lake  country,  but  so  far  as  any  substantial  migra- 
tion is  concerned,  the  evidence  points  in  the  opposite  direction.  In 
order  to  go  anywhere  else  they  were  obliged  to  invade  the  territory 
of  other  tribes — tribes  without  exception  speaking  different  lan- 
guages. While  it  is  known  that  individual  Indians  did  this  in  many 
cases,  there  is  no  evidence  to  show  that  any  considerable  number 
joined  other  tribes.  Had  they  done  so  they  would  have  left  many 
descendants  ;  but  in  all  my  field  work  in  California  I  have  rarely  met, 


602  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

outside  of  the  Mission  strip  and  the  small  reservations  from  Tule 
river  southward,  a  Mission  Indian  or  the  descendant  of  a  Mission 
Indian.  This  to  me  is  conclusive  evidence  that'  the  great  bulk  of 
Mission  Indians  perished  in  their  own  territory. 

The  process  of  confiscation  of  the  missions  covered  a   dozen 
years  (i  834-1845)  and  its  disastrous  effects  on  the  natives  continued 
for  several  years  longer  —  till  in  fact  those  of  the  Mission  strip, 
except  in  the  far  south,  had  been  practically  exterminated.    During 
the  early  part  of  this  period  the  Spanish- Mexicans,  who  by  this  time 
far  outnumbered  the  padres  and  their  attendants,  were  establishing 
ranches  in  various  outlying  districts,  and  during  the  latter  part,  par- 
ticularly after  the  seizure  of  California  by  the  United  States  in  1 846, 
American  fortune  seekers  were  pouring  into  the  state  in  rapidly 
increasing  numbers  and  pushing  into  districts  previously  unknown, 
thereby  augmenting  the  pressure  on  the  Indians  and  extending  it  far 
beyond  the  area  of  Mission  influence.     The  shrinkage  of  the  native 
population  during  the  fifteen  years  from   1834  to  1849  I  have  esti- 
mated at  1 10,000,  which  is  at  the  appalling  rate  of  more  than  7,000 
a  year. 

The  discovery  of  gold,  in  1848,  set  in  motion  a  tremor  of  excite- 
ment that  swept  around  the  world  like  a  tidal  wave,  gathering 
recruits  from  all  nations  and  hurrying  them  by  land  and  sea  to  the 
Golden  State.  During  the  single  year  1849  no  fewer  than  77,ocx) 
arrived.  This  army  of  gold  seekers  was  a  heterogeneous  assem- 
blage, comprising  many  good  and  noble  men,  but  also  thousands  of 
the  rougher  and  more  turbulent  classes,  not  excepting  criminals. 
As  these  adventurers  spread  north  and  south  over  the  flanks  of  the 
Sierra  and  penetrated  the  rugged  mountains  of  the  northwest,  they 
everywhere  invaded  the  territory  of  the  Indians  and  decimated  the 
native  population.  From  Humboldt  and  Trinity  counties,  from  the 
Siskiyous,  and  from  the  flanks  of  the  Sierra,  the  story  is  the  same  : 
villages  were  broken  up  and  the  inhabitants  scattered  or  massacred  ; 
men  and  women  were  debauched  with  whisky  ;  men  were  ruthlessly 
killed ;  women  were  appropriated,  and  seeds  of  disease  were  sown 
which  undermined  the  constitutions  of  succeeding  generations. 
This  is  not  the  place  to  recite  the  sickening  details,  which  blacken 
many  pages  in  the  history  of  the  Golden  State.     For  present  pur- 


MERRIAM]        THE  INDIAN  POPULATION  OF  CALIFORNIA  603 

poses  let  it  suffice  that  in  most  localities  the  Indians  showed  no 
resistance,  although  those  of  the  northwestern  area  resented  the 
conduct  of  the  intruders  and  thus  brought  upon  themselves  a  series 
of  so-called  '  Indian  wars/  resulting  in  the  extermination  of  many 
of  the  tribes  and  the  reduction  of  the  remainder  to  small  remnants, 
which  later  were  removed  to  Government  reservations.  Had  the 
Indians  of  California  been  fighters,  like  the  Apache  or  Blackfeet 
or  Sioux,  or  any  of  the  Plains  tribes,  the  conquest  of  the  state  would 
have  been  a  very  different  matter. 

The  fatal  decrease  following  the  mission  period  continued  long 
enough  to  be  overlapped  by  the  beginning  of  the  gold  period,  the 
two  together  forming  a  continuous  series  of  years,  extending  from 
1834  till  the  decline  of  active  gold  operations  in  1855.  But  the  dis- ' 
tinctness  of  the  two  should  be  kept  clearly  in  mind :  One  was  a 
period  of  Spanish  aggression ;  the  other,  of  American  aggression. 
There  is  also  an  important  geographic  difference,  for  the  territory 
under  jurisdiction  of  the  missions  was  the  coast  strip  from  San 
Francisco  bay  south,  from  which  the  mission  influence  reached  only 
to  Sonoma  on  the  north  and  to  the  San  Joaquin  valley  on  the  east, 
although  the  Spanish-Mexican  rancheros  and  raiding  expeditions 
extended  considerably  beyond  these  limits.  The  operations  of  the 
gold  seekers  covered  nearly  the  whole  of  the  remaining  parts  of 
the  state,  and  their  blighting  influence  was  particularly  severe 
throughout  the  Sierra  region  and  in  the  mountainous  and  until  then 
unknown  northern  and  northwestern  districts.  The  two  destroying 
armies  together  therefore  covered  practically  the  whole  of  Gilifomia, 
leaving  only  the  deserts  on  the  east  —  and  these  were  not  wholly 
exempt. 

We  have  already  seen  that  the  average  annual  decrease  from 
the  close  of  the  Mission  period  in  1834  to  the  gold  rush  in  1849 
was  a  little  more  than  7,000.  Throughout  the  gold  period  this 
terribly  devastating  rate  continued,  the  decrease  during  the  seven 
years  from  1849  to  1856  amounting  to  about  50,000.  It  appears, 
therefore,  that  for  a  period  of  not  less  than  22  years  (i 834-1 856) 
the  average  annual  decrease  exceeded  7,000,  amounting  in  the 
whole  period  to  a  loss  of  160,000  Indians.  But  while  the  actual 
annual  decrease   seems   to   have   been  remarkably   constant,  the 


6o4  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

population  as  a  whole  was  rapidly  diminishing,  so  that  the  per- 
centage of  decrease  to  the  total  population  was  rapidly  increasing. 

Later,  when  mining  gradually  gave  place  to  agriculture,  the 
tillers  of  the  soil  coveted  the  lands  of  the  Indians  and  proceeded 
to  take  them  without  fear  of  interference  from  either  the  owners  or 
the  law;  for  until  the  year  1872,  in  cases  in  which  a  white  person 
was  a  party,  the  testimony  of  Indians  —  be  it  said  to  the  shame  of 
California — was  not  admitted  in  any  court  of  justice.  Down  to 
recent  times,  therefore,  a  white  man  could  confiscate  the  home  of  an 
Indian,  and  even  kill  the  occupants,  without  danger  of  punishment 
—  and  it  may  be  added,  in  spite  of  the  change  in  the  law,  that  con- 
ditions today  are  not  much  better  for  the  Indian. 

Why,  it  may  be  asked,  did  not  the  Indians  take  matters  into 
their  own  hands  and  defend  themselves  against  the  intruders? 
Because,  as  many  of  them  have  told  me,  they  had  learned  that  it 
was  hopeless  to  oppose  the  will  of  the  whites  —  to  do  so  meant 
the  loss  of  their  property  and  probably  also  of  their  lives.  Hence 
an  Indian,  when  ordered  by  a  white  man  to  vacate  the  home  where 
he  was  bom  and  where  his  ancestors  were  buried  —  the  spot  more 
dear  to  him  than  all  the  world  —  usually  obeyed,  and  obeyed 
promptly  and  without  resistance.  In  the  Sierra  region  many 
instances  of  this  kind  have  been  related  to  me  by  the  sufferers  from 
these  cruel  evictions. 

According  to  the  estimates  here  given,  the  shrinkage  of  the 
native  population,  particularly  during  the  22  years  from  the  close 
of  the  mission  period  in  1834  to  the  decline  of  the  gold  period  in 
1856,  was  so  great  as  to  seem  almost  incredible,  and  prompts  one 
to  ask  if  additional  contemporary  evidence  exists  bearing  on  the 
subject.  Evidence  of  this  kind  is  so  abundant  that  if  assembled  it 
would  fill  a  volume.  It  relates  not  only  to  the  steady  decline  of 
the  native  population  throughout  the  state,  but  also  to  epidemics  of 
smallpox  and  other  diseases,  to  the  demolition  of  sources  of  food 
supply,  to  the  burning  of  stores  of  food  laid  up  for  winter,  to  the 
confiscation  of  homes,  to  cold-blooded  massacres  by  both  Spaniards 
and  Americans,  to  raids  for  the  alleged  purpose  of  punishing  horse 
thieves,  but  in  most  instances  for  the  real  purpose  of  capturing 
Indian  children  and  young  women  tor  servants,  and  to  the  destruc- 
tion of  life  attending  the  capture  o    Indians  and  their  removal  to 


MERRIAM]        THE  INDIAN  POPULATION  OF  CALIFORNIA  605 

Government  reservations.  I  have  been  told  by  eye-witnesses  of  an 
incredible  outrage  practised  by  a  gang  of  cattle  and  hog  men  who 
in  1856  or  1857  took  it  upon  themselves  to  drive  the  helpless 
Taches  and  other  tribes  from  Tulare  lake  and  lower  Kings  river  to 
the  Fresno  reservation.  Men,  women,  and  children,  including  the  sick 
and  the  aged,  were  hurriedly  driven  through  mud  and  water  during 
the  height  of  the  rainy  season  by  brutal  men  on  horseback  ;  many  fell 
out  and  perished  by  the  way,  and  those  who  reached  the  hated  desti- 
nation and  afterward  escaped,  returned  to  find  their  food  caches  appro- 
priated for  the  hogs,  and  on  making  their  presence  known,  were 
themselves  hunted  down  and  quietly  "  taken  care  of"  by  the  whites. 

Speaking  of  the  reservations  in  general,  Hittell  says  that  in 
nearly  every  case  of  removal  the  Indians  had  to  be  driven  by  force, 
and  "  not  unfrequently  only  a  remnant  was  left  by  the  time  the  reser- 
vation was  reached."  He  states  also,  with  reference  to  the  general 
shrinkage  during  the  gold  period,  that  "of  over  10,000  Indians  in 
Yuba,  Placer,  Nevada,  and  Sierra  counties  in  1 849,  not  more  than 
about  3»8oo  remained  in  1854."  In  1849  General  Bidwell  found 
about  1 ,000  Indians  living  on  the  Sacramento  river  near  the  place 
where  Colusa  now  stands ;  the  survivors  at  present  number  fewer 
than  50.  In  1829  Kit  Carson  saw  'thousands'  in  Napa  valley; 
in  1859  he  could  not  find  a  twentieth  of  that  number,  and  now 
hardly  one  is  left.  In  1850  Lieut.  George  H.  Derby  of  the  Topo- 
graphical Engineers,  U.  S.  A.,  found  1,100  Indians  living  about 
Tulare  or  Tache  lake ;  the  number  in  this  region  at  present  is  less 
than  a  dozen.  The  same  year  he  found  on  Kings  river  seventeen 
villages  with  an  aggregate  population  of  3,000 ;  at  present  only  one 
village  remains  and  the  number  of  inhabitants  is  less  than  20.  In 
the  early  fifties  the  native  population  along  the  lower  Kaweah  river 
and  delta  is  said  to  have  been  about  5,000;  at  present  it  consists 
of  about  25  persons. 

These  instances,  and  many  others  that  might  be  given,  show 
conclusively  that  the  reduction  of  the  native  population,  allowing 
liberally  for  overestimates  as  to  original  numbers,  was  of  monstrous 
proportions  and  progressed  with  startling  swiftness. 

Another  kind  of  evidence  is  furnished  by  the  half-obliterated 
sites  of  villages  which  in  the  early  days  were  thriving  communities. 
Hundreds  of  these  are  now  known. 


6o6  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

In  September,  1850,  Adam  Johnson,  sub-agent  in  charge  of  the 
Valley  Indians,  wrote  the  Commissioner  of  Indian  Affairs  that 
within  the  short  period  of  occupancy  by  the  whites,  the  red  man 
had  fast  faded  away  ;  many  had  died  of  disease ;  others  had  fled  to 
the  mountains  to  enjoy  for  a  brief  period  their  primeval  sports  of 
hunting  and  fishing.  Practically  all  the  coast  Indians  had  gone ; 
of  the  numerous  tribes  which  only  a  few  years  before  inhabited  the 
country  bordering  on  the  bay  of  San  Francisco,  scarcely  an  indi- 
vidual was  left.  Two  years  later  Gen.  E.  F.  Beale,  superintendent 
of  Indian  affairs  in  California,  said  in  his  official  report :  **  Driven 
from  their  fishing  and  hunting  grounds,  hunted  themselves  like  wild 
beasts,  lassoed^  torn  from  homes  made  miserable  by  want,  and 
forced  into  slavery,  the  wretched  remnant  which  escapes  starvation 
on  the  one  hand,  and  the  relentless  whites  on  the  other,  only  does 
so  to  rot  and  die  of  a  loathsome  disease,  the  penalty  of  Indian 
association  with  frontier  civilization." 

The  principal  cause  of  the  appallingly  great  and  rapid  decrease 
in  the  Indians  of  California  is  not,  in  my  judgment,  the  number 
directly  slain  by  the  whites,  or  the  number  directly  killed  by  whisky 
and  disease,  but  a  much  more  subtle  and  dreadful  thing :  it  is  the 
gradual  but  progressive  and  relentless  confiscation  of  their  lands 
and  homes,  in  consequence  of  which  they  are  forced  to  seek  refuge 
in  remote  and  barren  localities,  often  far  from  water,  usually  with  an 
impoverished  supply  of  food,  and  not  infrequently  in  places  where 
the  winter  climate  is  too  severe  for  their  enfeebled  constitutions. 
Victims  of  the  aggressive  selfishness  of  the  whites,  outcasts  in  the 
land  of  their  fathers,  outraged  in  their  most  sacred  institutions, 
weakened  in  body,  broken  in  spirit,  and  fully  conscious  of  the  utter 
hopelessness  of  their  condition,  must  we  wonder  that  the  wail  for 
the  dead  is  often  heard  in  their  camps  and  that  the  survivors  are 
passing  swiftly  away. 

Note.  — The  chief  sources  of  information  drawn  on  in  the  preparation  of 
the  foregoing  article  are  :  Hittell,  History  of  California ;  Bledsoe,  Indian 
Wars  ;  Derby,  Report  of  a  Rcconnaissafice  of  the  Tache  Lake  region,  in  18^0; 
Reports  of  the  first  California  Indian  Agents  and  Commissioners,  Senate  Ex, 
Doc.  4,  Special  Session,  1853  ;  Powers,  Indians  of  California,  1877;  Reports 
of  the  Commissioner  of  Indian  Affairs  ;  the  Federal  decennial  census,  and  my 
personal  field  notes.  — C.  H.  M. 
Washington,  D.  C. 


THE   MYTHOLOGY   OF   THE   SHASTA-ACHOMAWP 

By  ROLAND  B.  DIXON 

The  Shasta-Achomawi  occupy  an  irregular  strip  running  north- 
west and  southeast  across  the  northern  end  of  California,  about 
forty  miles  or  so  in  average  width,  and  extending  from  near  the 
western  edge  of  Siskiyou  county  to  the  Nevada  line.  Until  recently 
they  have  been  regarded  as  two  distinct  linguistic  families,  but  in  a 
recent  note  ^  I  have  tried  to  show  that,  from  linguistic  grounds, 
they  may  be  regarded  as  probably  related  members  of  a  single 
stock,  though  in  many  respects  quite  distinct.  Although  the  lin- 
guistic relations  which  these  two  members  bear  to  each  other  and 
to  the  surrounding  stocks  are  of  much  interest,  and  will,  I  believe, 
eventually  shed  some  light  on  the  larger  problems  of  Califomian 
ethnology,  the  general  cultural  features  of  the  stock  are  no  less  im- 
portant in  this  regard. 

As  has  been  clearly  pointed  out  by  Dr  Kroeber,  in  a  recent 
publication  of  the  University  of  California,  we  may  distinguish 
broadly  three  contrasted  culture  areas  in  California  —  the  north- 
western, occupying  the  northern  coast  from  about  the  southern 
portion  of  Humboldt  county  to  beyond  the  Oregon  line,  and  ex- 
tending inland  some  forty  or  fifty  miles ;  the  southwestern,  includ- 
ing the  southern  coast  counties  from  Monterey  southward  ;  and  the 
central,  occupying  all  the  remainder  of  the  state  excepting  its  south- 
ern border.  These  are  the  main  broad  divisions,  but  immediately 
one  looks  closer  he  finds  each  of  these  major  divisions  broken  up 
into  a  number  of  minor  subdivisions  which  may  be  more  or  less 
clearly  distinguished  one  from  the  other.  This  is  particularly  true 
in  the  case  of  the  large  central  area. 

This  brings  us  face  to  face  with  the  fundamental  characteristic 
of  California  ethnology  —  its  diversity.     In  other  parts  of  the*  North 


1  Read  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  American  Anthropological  Association,  San 
Francisco,  August  29. 

1  American  Anthropologist,  vol.  VII,  no.  2,  1 905. 

607 


6o8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,   7,  1905 

American  continent  uniform  or  closely  similar  cultures  spread  over 
large  areas,  as  in  the  plains,  the  sotithwest,  and  the  northwest  coast ; 
here  the  area  covered  by  a  culture  type  is  much  smaller,  and  each 
is  split  up,  rather  more  clearly  than  elsewhere,  into  a  number  of  di- 
verse subtypes.  The  Shasta-Achomawi  form  one  of  these  sub- 
types of  the  general  central  Califomian  culture  area,  and  lie  geo- 
graphically between  the  Maidu  and  Wintun  subtypes  of  this  area, 
the  northwestern  area,  and  the  as  yet  little-known  type  of  south- 
em  Oregon. 

In  mythology,  as  in  language,  the  two  components  of  the  stock 
are  alike,  yet  different.  As  one  might  expect,  the  eastern,  or 
Achomawi,  branch  resembles  the  Maidu  in  not  a  few  particulars. 
We  find  in  the  first  place  much  of  the  systematic,  sequent  quality 
which  has  been  pointed  out  as  characteristic  of  the  Maidu,  and  also 
the  considerable  importance  of  a  Creator  and  of  the  episode  of 
creation.  In  outline,  the  Achomawi  account  of  the  creation  runs 
somewhat  as  follows : 

In  the  beginning  all  was  water,  everywhere  was  nothing  but 
the  sea,  and  the  clear  sky.  In  the  clearness  a  cloud  formed,  and 
from  it  the  Coyote  appeared.  A  fog  then  arose  from  the  surface  of 
the  water,  and  from  it  the  Creator,  the  Silver-fox,  appeared.  The 
prior  appearance  of  the  Coyote  is  here  to  be  noted.  Wearying  of 
suspension  in  mid-air,  the  Creator  thinks  a  canoe,  into  which  Coyote 
and  Creator  descend,  and  for  a  long  time  float  about.  At  length 
the  canoe  becomes  old,  moss-grown,  and  rotten,  and  the  Creator 
determines  to  obtain  some  better  abiding  place.  While  the  Coyote 
sleeps,  he  combs  out  from  his  own  body  a  mass  of  hair,  forms  it 
into  a  flat  disk,  sets  it  afloat  on  the  water,  and  on  it  places  what 
are  to  be  trees  and  plants.  The  world  is  thus  created,  and  the 
canoe  floats  gently  ashore,  when  the  Creator  arouses  the  Coyote, 
who  wakes  to  find  himself  overshadowed  by  drooping  branches  of 
fruit.  The  two  step  ashore,  build  for  themselves  houses,  and  live 
there  together.  After  a  time  the  Creator  makes  the  various  animal- 
people,  and  the  deer,  and  for  a  while  all  live  together.  The  use  of 
obsidian  for  knives  and  arrowpoints  is  discovered,  mankind  is  made, 
and  the  struggle  begins  between  the  Creator  and  Coyote  for  the 
mastery  :  the  former  desirous  that  life  shall  be  easy  for  the  man 


DIXON]  SHASTA'ACHOMA  WI  MYTHOLOG  Y  609 

he  has  made,  the  latter  wishing  conditions  to  be  hard.  As  in  the 
case  of  the  Maidu,  the  Coyote  wins,  death  is  brought  into  the  world, 
and  his  own  child  is  the  first  to  die.  At  length,  the  Creator  having 
tried  in  vain  to  destroy  the  Coyote,  the  events  described  in  the  tale 
of  the  Loon-woman  among  the  Maidu  and  Yana  take  place :  all  the 
animal  beings  try  to  escape  the  wrath  and  fire  of  the  Loon  by 
ascent  to  the  sky  ;  Coyote  as  usual  is  responsible  for  their  fall,  and 
with  few  exceptions  all  are  burned  to  death.  Their  hearts  how- 
ever are  restored  to  Ijfe,  and  then  Silver-fox  gives  to  each  animal- 
person  his  or  her  peculiar  markings  and  cries,  and  sends  them  off 
to  different  parts  of  the  country.  From  here,  as  the  Indians  say, 
the  '*  story  branches,"  and  the  multitude  of  tales  of  the  doings  of 
the  different  animal-beings  follow,  in  little  or  no  order.  In  com- 
parison with  the  Maidu,  one  notices  here  the  animal  name  of  the 
Creator ;  the  Coyote's  precedence ;  the  rather  more  philosophical 
account  of  the  origin  of  things ;  the  rather  slighter  development 
logically  of  the  dualism  so  strongly  shown  in  the  Maidu,  and,  on 
the  whole,  a  less  logical  and  orderly  working  out  of  the  cycle. 

If  we  turn  to  the  Shasta,  we  find  a  notable  difference.  Here 
the  development  of  the  Creator  and  the  episode  of  the  creation  is 
practically  wholly  lacking,  and  the  dualism,  still  clear  in  the  Acho- 
mawi,  entirely  disappears.  Apparently  there  is  no  very  clear 
idea  of  creation,  and  the  most  that  has  been  found  is  a  confused 
account  of  a  flood  brought  on  by  a  mysterious  being ;  —  after  the 
subsidence  of  the  water,  the  Eagle  largely  shapes  the  world,  and 
then  sends  down  a  boy  and  a  girl,  brother  and  sister,  who  marry, 
and  are  the  ancestors  of  the  human  race.  Of  the  creation  proper, 
or  the  making  of  the  animals,  there  seems  to  be  little  trace.  The 
Coyote  assumes  a  very  important  role,  however,  for  he  names  the 
animals  and  is  responsible  for  the  introduction  of  death  into  the 
world,  but  in  a  manner  wholly  different  from  that  in  the  Achomawi  or 
the  Maidu.  The  systematic,  orderly  character,  strong  in  the  Acho- 
mawi, has  entirely  disappeared,  it  seems,  and  in  its  place  there  is  a 
mass  of  meager  incidents,  with  little  correlation,  and  as  in  the 
northwestern  California  cultures  the  creation  episode  practically 
disappears. 

So  far,  then,  there  is  considerable  difference  between  the  Shasta 


6lO  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

and  the  Achomawi,  each  apparently  resembling  its  neighbor  (the 
Hupa  and  the  Maidu)  rather  than  the  two  components  resembling 
each  other.  If,  now,  we  turn  to  the  remainder  of  the  mythology, 
we  shall  find  a  different  state  of  affairs.  In  the  Achomawi  there  is 
a  large  mass  of  tales,  which  may  be  divided  into  Coyote  tales  and 
miscellaneous  tales.  The  former  are  numerous,  and  in  part  agree 
with  the  similar  type  of  Maidu  tales.  The  Coyote  preserves  his 
character  as  a  mischievous  trickster,  continually  led  into  trouble  by 
his  curiosity  and  amorous  propensities,  and  we  find  here  again  the 
familiar  incidents  of  the  "  Tar-baby  "  stump,  the  Bags  of  Wind,  the 
Cannibal  feast,  etc.,  with  also  a  large  number  of  new  ones,  particu- 
larly those  of  an  erotic  character.  The  number  of  tales,  however, 
that  are  similar  to  those  of  the  Maidu  is  less  than  the  new  ones, 
so  that  while  we  clearly  have  relationship  here,  there  is  also,  and 
no  less  clearly,  evidence  of  a  new  type. 

In  the  class  of  miscellaneous  tales,  the  same  holds  true.  As 
compared  with  the  Maidu  we  find,  to  be  sure,  several  old  friends, 
such  as  the  tale  of  the  Loon-woman,  the  Fire-quest,  the  Two  Girls 
sent  in  search  of  a  Husband,  etc. ;  but  these  tales  are  either  quite 
a  little  changed,  or,  as  in  the  case  of  the  Loon-woman,  play  quite 
a  different  part  in  the  general  sequence  of  events.  We  find,  more- 
over, a  large  number  of  tales  quite  different  from  any  found  as  yet 
among  the  Maidu,  such  for  example  as  the  tale  of  the  Lost  Brother, 
or  the  tales  of  the  prowess  of  Lizard  in  his  conflicts  with  the  Grizzly 
Bears.  In  the  former,  a  notable  incident  is  the  ascent  to  the  sky 
by  the  Mice  to  ask  the  Sun  for  information  relative  to  the  where- 
abouts of  the  lost  brother. 

Turning  to  the  Shasta  now,  we  find  a  considerably  greater  agree- 
ment with  the  Achomawi  in  the  Coyote  and  miscellaneous  tales 
than  in  the  Creation  series.  The  major  part  of  the  Coyote  stories 
are  alike  or  nearly  so ;  practically  all  the  characteristic  Achomawi 
incidents  appear,  with  of  course  numerous  new  ones  also.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  Maidu  incidents  found  in  the  Achomawi  disappear  to 
a  large  extent.  The  Coyote,  moreover,  in  the  Shasta  is  not  so  purely 
a  trickster  as  in  the  case  of  the  Achomawi,  and  indeed  in  several 
tales  he  appears  as  a  benefactor  of  mankind  and  a  destroyer  of 
monsters.  The  number  of  tales  in  which  he  figures  as  an  important 
character  is  also  greater. 


DIXON]  SHASTArACHOMA  WI  MYTHOLOG  Y  6l  I 

In  the  miscellaneous  tales  from  the  Shasta  we  may  note  several 
points  of  interest  Many  of  the  typical  Achomawi  stories  appear, 
notably  that  of  the  Lost  Brother,  but  here  it  assumes  a  different 
form,  being  apparently  part  of  a  series  of  tales  relating  to  two 
brothers,  culture  heroes,  one  of  whom  seems  to  wander  about  the 
country  killing  monsters.  The  incident  of  the  ascent  to  the  sky  is 
elaborated  more  than  in  the  case  of  the  Achomawi,  and  the 
brother's  quest  is  much  more  elaborately  described,  and  includes 
such  incidents  as  the  cutting  of  the  bow-strings  and  the  gnawing  of 
holes  in  the  bottoms  of  the  canoes  in  order  to  hinder  pursuit. 
These  incidents  recall  the  type  of  tales  characteristic  of  the  region 
of  western  Washington.  A  number  of  other  incidents  in  other 
tales,  as  well  as  in  this  series,  also  suggest  some  relationship  with 
the  Puget  Sound  region.  In  addition  to  these,  however,  there  are 
not  a  few  which  are  strongly  typical  of  the  Basin  area,  and  as  such 
resembling  those  of  the  northeastern  Maidu.  Wintun  resemblances 
may  also  be  noted  in  some  cases.  In  general  there  is  but  little 
which  directly  resembles  the  northwestern  area,  although  the  Shasta 
are  in  immediate  contact  with  it. 

From  the  foregoing  it  appears,  then,  that  we  have  in  the 
mythology  of  the  Shasta-Achomawi  more  or  less  corroboration  of 
the  evidence  obtained  from  linguistic  comparisons,  namely,  that  the 
two  branches  of  the  stock  are  unquestionably  allied,  and  closely  so, 
yet  present  features  of  essential  dif!erence,  and  that  the  stock  as 
a  whole  is,  so  far  as  the  mythology  is  concerned,  a  subtype  of  the 
general  central  Californian  culture  area.  Presenting  many  points 
of  agreement  with  the  Maidu  subtype,  and  with  that  of  the  Basin 
area,  as  we  know  it  from  the  Salish  of  Thompson  river,  it  also  has 
much  that  reminds  one  of  the  type  of  tales  characteristic  of  the 
Oregon-Washington  section.  On  the  other  hand,  although  the 
Shasta-Achomawi  are  in  close  contact  with  tribes  of  the  north- 
western Californian  culture,  it  presents,  on  the  whole,  few  points  of 
agreement  with  this.  As  this  lack  of  agreement  holds  almost 
equally  well  in  the  remainder  of  the  culture,  and  also  in  language, 
we  may  perhaps  be  justified  in  regarding  this  as  evidence  that  the 
two  cultures  have  been  in  contact  but  a  comparatively  short  time. 
This  lack  of  agreement  is  emphasized  all  the  more  by  the  great 

AM.  ANTH.,  ft.  S.,  7 — 41 


6l2  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

number  of  instances  in  the  rest  of  the  state,  where  neighboring 
stocks  very  clearly  show  association  one  with  another.  Taken  in 
connection  with  several  other  small  indications,  and  with  direct 
traditions  of  a  former  considerable  extension  of  the  stock,  particu- 
larly the  Shasta  branch,  in  southern  Oregon,  and  the  comparative 
lack  of  several  characteristic  features  of  the  central  Californian  cul- 
ture, we  may  perhaps  regard  the  Shasta,  at  least,  as  comparatively 
recent  comers  into  the  area  south  of  the  Siskiyou  mountains.  This 
southward  advance  must  have  been  early  enough,  however,  to  have 
all  recollection  of  it  lost  Yet  the  matter  is  not  at  all  simple,  as 
there  are  one  or  two  conflicting  traditions,  and  references  to  the 
regions  farther  south,  about  Redding  and  even  as  far  as  Tehama. 
The  recent  finding,  moreover,  of  three  fragments  of  Shasta  dialects 
along  the  western  and  southern  periphery  of  the  stock  area  is  a 
further  contradictory  feature,  suggesting  possibly  the  earlier  occu- 
pancy by  these  dialects  of  much  or  all  of  the  present  Californian 
territory  covered  by  the  Shasta  branch  of  the  stock,  and  their  later 
being  overwhelmed  by  the  influx  of  a  more  northerly  branch,  from 
beyond  the  Siskiyous.  Unfortunately,  corroboration  of  any  such 
hypothesis,  from  the  cultural  side,  is  virtually  impossible,  owing  to 
the  almost  complete  extinction  of  these  newly  found  fragments. 

Speculation  aside,  I  trust  the  foregoing  brief  discussion  of  the 
mythology  of  the  Shasta-Achomawi  has  made  clear  the  nature  of 
some  of  the  problems  awaiting  solution  in  the  ethnology  of  the 
northern  portion  of  California,  and  how  well  the  data  obtained  from 
the  study  of  the  general  culture  agrees  with  that  gathered  from 
linguistic  material. 

Harvard  University, 

Cambridge,  Massachusetts. 


MECHANICAL  AIDS   TO  THE   STUDY  AND 
RECORDING  OF  LANGUAGE^ 

By  p.  E.  GODDARD 

Language  is  essentially  two-fold,  consisting  of  spoken  sounds 
and  mental  concepts.  Only  in  comparatively  recent  times  and 
among  certain  peoples  have  written  symbols  been  employed  to  rep- 
resent the  sounds.  There  are  only  a  few  among  those  having 
written  characters  who  are  able  to  connect  them  directly  with  the 
mental  concepts.  The  vast  majority  must  go  from  the  written 
symbol  first  to  the  sound  and  then  to  the  mental  concept.  In  ordi- 
nary practice  then,  writing  is  simply  a  device  for  bringing  to  one's 
own  mind,  or  to  the  mind  of  another,  sounds  which  are  well  known. 
Unless  the  sounds  are  known,  or  can  be  made  known  by  other 
means,  the  written  characters  fail  both  in  conveying  them  to  those 
who  are  interested  in  their  study,  and  in  preserving  them  after  the 
language  of  which  they  are  a  part  has  ceased  being  spoken.  No- 
where has  the  inadequacy  of  alphabets,  however  ingenious,  made 
itself  more  felt  than  in  the  field  of  American  languages. 

The  only  proper  method  of  learning  a  language  is  to  go  among 
those  who  speak  it,  to  hear  it  constantly  and  practise  speaking  it. 
For  a  child  there  is  little  difficulty  in  this,  but  a  person  who  has 
reached  his  majority  finds  it  practically  impossible  to  acquire  a 
foreign  language  so  as  to  be  able  to  speak  it  without  an  accent. 
For  the  practical  purpose  of  making  one's  self  understood  this 
accent  matters  little,  but  for  the  scientific  study  of  a  language  such 
imperfect  pronunciation  is  far  from  satisfactory.  The  difficulty 
seems  to  lie  almost  entirely  in  the  lack  of  ability  of  the  person  to 
hear  correctly  the  sounds  uttered.  He  does  not  realize  that  his 
own  speech  of  the  acquired  language  is  imperfect,  or  at  least  he 
does  not  know  in  what  particulars  it  is  faulty,  and  therefore  is 


1  Read  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  Berkeley,  Cali' 
ornia,  August  31. 

613 


6J4  AMERICAN  anthropologist   .  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

unable  to  perfect  it.     To  remedy  this  fault  the  ear  must  be  aided 
by  some  means. 

The  lip  movements  may  be  directly  observed  by  the  eye. 
Where  a  comparison  between  the  sounds  made  in  part  by  the  lips, 
in  the  same  or  in  a  different  language,  is  desired,  the  camera  may  be 
employed.  The  subject  should  be  placed  in  strong  sunlight  and  a 
very  rapid  lens  and  shutter  used.  The  photographs  so  taken  may 
be  arranged,  measured,  and  compared.  By  this  method  it  may  be 
readily  shown  what  vowels  in  the  language  are  rounded,  the  rela- 
tive degree  of  lip  opening  for  each  vowel,  and  the  amount  of  lip 
activity  characterizing  the  language  as  a  whole. 

To  a  certain  extent  tongue  movements  may  also  be  directly 
observed,  but  more  difficulty  is  experienced  with  them  than  with 
the  lip  sounds.  To  determine  and  fix  the  movements  of  the  tongue 
certain  mechanical  devices  may  be  employed.  The  simplest  of 
these  is  the  artificial  palate.^  This  should  be  made  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible and  adjusted  so  as  to  fit  the  roof  of  the  mouth  perfectly.  The 
work  can  be  done  by  any  good  dentist.  There  is  difficulty  in 
extending  the  artificial  palate  beyond  the  joining  of  the  soft  and 
hard  palates  because  the  movement  of  the  soft  palate  is  likely  to 
dislodge  it  and  its  pressure  upon  the  soft  palate  often  produces 
gagging.  The  palate,  which  must  be  perfectly  dry,  is  dusted  with 
powdered  chalk  and  put  in  place.  Single  syllables  should  be 
uttered,  care  being  taken  that  a  complication  of  impressions  is  not 
brought  about.  Where  the  naturally  moist  tongue  touches  the 
surface  of  the  palate  the  chalk  is  removed  and  the  black  surface  is 
exposed.  The  palate  should  be  quickly  and  carefully  removed 
from  the  mouth  and  photographed.  This  method  fixes  the  exact 
position  occupied  by  the  tongue  in  making  a  certain  sound,  provided 
the  contact  is  upon  the  hard  palate  or  the  teeth.  By  this  means  it 
is  shown  that  a  Hupa,  who  speaks  his  own  language  perfectly  and 
English  fairly  well,  makes  the  contact  for  d  in  Hupa  considerably 
farther  forward  than  he  does  for  English  ^(pl.  xxxvi,  figs.  5  and  6). 


*  Dr  Norman  Kingsley  seems  first  to  have  employed  this  method  for  the  coiTection 
of  oral  deformities.  It  has  been  frequently  employed  for  linguistic  purposes  in  Eurof>e. 
Kingsley,  On  Oral  Deformities^  London,  1880.  Scripture,  Elements  of  Experimental 
Phonetics y  New  York,  1902,  p.  298. 


«i(b}-    $.  Pitlfltograin  of 


GODDABD]     MECHANICAL  AIDS   TO  STUDY  OF  LANGUAGE  61$ 

To  register  the  exact  time  of  the  beginning,  culmination,  and 
end  of  tongue  movements,  the  Rousselot  apparatus  may  be  em- 
ployed,' This  apparatus  (figure  23)  consists  of  a  kymograph  —  a 
cylinder  horizontally  placed,  driven  at  a  uniform  rate  of  speed  by 
delicate  clockwork.  A  sheet  of  paper  is  placed  around  the  cylin- 
der and  given  a  thin,  even  coating  of  smoke.  The  fine  elastic  trac- 
ing point  of  the  Marey  tambour  resting  upon  this  paper  registers 
the  varying  force  of  the  column  of  air  which  issues  from  the  mouth 


Fig.  33.  —  Kpnograph  of  the  Rousselot  apparatus 


or  nose,  or  any  compression  of  a  closed  chamber  that  may  be  con- 
nected with  it.  For  registering  the  movements  of  the  tongue,  a 
rubber  bulb  is  placed  between  the  tongue  and  the  roof  of  the  mouth 
at  the  desired  point.  This  bulb  is  connected  with  a  Marey  tambour 
by  means  of  a  rubber  tube  which  passes  out  through  the  side  of 
the  mouth-piece  into  which  the  words  are  spoken.  Two  tambours 
are  used,  one  connected  with  the  bulb  and  one  with  the  mouth- 
piece, arranged  so  that  their  tracing  points  will  make  but  a  single 
line  when  the  carriage  with  the  tambours  is  pushed  along  while  the 

■  Many  parts  of  this  apparatus  have  been  designed  and  the  methods  of  its  uM  per- 
fected bjr  Abb£  Roasselol  of  Paris.      Rousselot,  Priatipis  dt  phonHiqtie  expirimmtaii, 

Palis,  1897. 


i 

I 

>  ■' 

I 

I 

I 


I 

I 
I 

I 
•  I 

'  i; 


I 


6 1 6  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 


cylinder  is  at  rest.  When  the  word  or  phrase  is  spoken  two  syn- 
chronous tracings  are  made  (pi.  xxxvi,  fig.  i).  In  this  case  the  upper 
one  is  from  the  mouth-piece  and  shows  the  varying  force  of  the  air 
column  from  the  oral  passage,  the  lower  one  is  from  a  bulb  placed 
on  the  point  of  the  tongue,  the  elevations  in  the  tracing  indicating 
the  time  of  the  raising  of  the  tongue  and  consequent  pressure  upon 
the  bulb.  These  correspond  to  the  moments  of  closure  of  the  oral 
passage  for  /,  n,  and  n  in  the  Hupa  word  tartan,  'water.' 

The  movements  of  the  back  portion  of  the  tongue  and  the  exact 

points  of  its  contact  with  the  soft  palate  are  difficult  to  observe 

directly,  and  mechanical  aids  are  not  easily  employed.     This  is 

greatly  to  be  regretted  because  several  of  the  American  languages 

!!  have  whole  series  of  sounds  formed  well  back  in  the  mouth. 

The  movements  of  the  velum  may  sometimes  be  directly 
observed.  The  uncertainty  concerning  one  Hupa  sound  was  re- 
moved in  this  manner.  The  subject  was  made  to  open  his  mouth 
widely,  facing  a  strong  light.  When  he  uttered  the  sound  in  doubt, 
the  velum  was  seen  forced  outward  and  strongly  vibrating  in  the 
current  of  expired  air.  The  position  of  the  velum  may  be  inferred 
from  tracings  made  with  the  Rousselot  apparatus.  A  bulb  of  glass 
open  at  both  ends  is  inserted  in  one  of  the  nostrils  with  a  rubber 
tube  connecting  one  of  its  ends  with  a  Marey  tambour.  By  this 
means  the  flow  of  the  air  through  the  nose  is  registered  and  the 
duration  of  the  opening  of  the  nasal  passages  by  the  lowering  of 
the  velum  is  ascertained.  In  plate  xxxvi,  fig.  2,  tracings  of  the 
Hupa  word  aft  {ang),  '  yes,'  is  shown.  The  lower  tracing  is  from 
the  nose,  showing  considerable  nasalization  of  the  vowel  and  a  de- 
cided nasal  sound  after  the  vowel  is  terminated  by  the  closing  of 
the  oral  passage. 

The  movements  of  the  walls  of  the  mouth  and  throat,  and  the 
condition  of  the  tongue  as  to  shape  and  rigidity  are  exceedingly 
difficult  to  determine  or  to  record.  On  these  largely  depend  the 
quality  of  the  vowel  sounds. 

The  action  of  the  glottis,  both  as  to  the  degree  and  time  of 
sonancy  may  also  be  shown  by  Rousselot  tracings.  These  may  be 
made  with  the  mouth-piece,  when  the  vibrations  of  the  vocal  chords 
will   appear,  if  the  tambour  is  properly  adjusted,  as  tiny  waves 


GODDARD]     MECHANICAL  AIDS   TO  STUDY  OF  LANGUAGE  617 

imposed  upon  the  breath  curves.  For  more  exact  work  a  thin 
membrane  of  rubber  may  be  applied  to  the  wall  of  the  larynx  and 
the  vibrations  conveyed  to  a  tambour  by  means  of  compressed  air. 
It  is  possible  in  this  manner  to  settle  the  puzzling  questions  in 
American  languages  concerning  the  degree  and  constancy  of  son- 
ancy  in  certain  consonants. 

So  far  only  the  physiological  causes  of  the  sounds  have  been 
considered,  and  they  are  the  most  important,  since  if  one  under- 
stands the  cause  he  can  with  practice  produce  the  result.  There  is 
however  another  side  to  phonetics  —  the  physical.  Puffs  of  air  of 
certain  regularity  of  occurrence,  force,  and  shape  fall  upon  the  ear 
and  produce  the  sensation  known  as  sound.  Here,  in  the  realm  of 
physics,  exact  measurements  are  possible  and  well  known  laws  pre- 
vail. It  is  quite  possible  to  make  visual  records  of  the  sounds  of  a 
language,  to  analyze  and  measure  them,  and  to  tabulate  the  results. 
Comparisons  may  then  be  made  within  the  bounds  of  the  language 
itself,  or  between  it  and  other  languages,  and  its  physical  character- 
istics made  a  matter  of  permanent  record. 

For  making  tracings  of  the  consonants,  a  mouth-piece  connected 
with  a  Marey  tambour  is  employed.  The  stopped  consonants 
appear  with  horizontal  straight  lines  of  no  elevation  for  the  period 
of  silence  caused  by  the  closure  of  the  mouth  passage  which  change 
almost  instantly  into  vertical  lines  when  the  explosion  occurs.  The 
continuant  consonants  are  represented  by  lines  which  gradually  rise 
and  fall  as  the  air  issues  with  greater  or  less  force.  If  these  con- 
tinuants are  also  fricatives,  irregularities  appear  in  the  lines,  due  to 
interference  with  the  air  column  as  it  passes  the  constrictions  of  the 
mouth  passage.  Plate  xxxvi,  fig.  i,  shows  the  aspirated  /,  and  the 
middle  of  figure  3  of  the  plate,  rfas  spoken  in  the  Hupa  language. 
The  initial  sound  in  the  tracing  last  referred  to  is  s,  showing  a  gradual 
smooth  curve,  and  figure  4  of  the  plate  shows  coarse,  irregular  waves 
produced  by  the  vibration  of  the  velum  in  the  Hupa  sound  mentioned 
on  page  616. 

The  vowel  sounds,  which  are  the  most  difficult  to  deal  with 
from  the  physiological  side  because  of  the  difficulty  in  ascertaining,, 
or  making  a  record,  of  the  shape  and  rigidity  of  the  mouth  and 
throat  chambers  in  which  the  vowels  resound,  are  in  theory  easily 


6i8 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


disposed  of  from  the  physical  side.  Theoretically  the  vowel  is  a 
harmonic  series  consisting  of  a  fundamental  and  at  least  two  over- 
tones. The  individual  waves  making  up  a  vowel  need  to  be  traced, 
enlarged,  analyzed,  and  the  results  expressed  in  terms  of  the  coeffi- 
cients of  their  fundamental  and  partial  tones.  These  results  may 
then  be  compared  with  the  results  obtained  from  an  analysis  of  the 
other  vowels  of  the  same  language,  or  of  similar  vowels  of  other 
languages.  The  difficulty  in  practice  consists  in  eliminating,  or 
allowing  for,  certain  constant  errors  due  to  the  resonance  of  the 
chamber  of  the  speaking  tube  and  the  natural  period  of  vibration  of 
the  diaphragm  which  must  be  employed  in  recording  the  sounds. 


Fig.  24.  —  Vowel  tracer 

Hermann  ^  and  Bevier  *  have  made  tracings  from  the  wax  cyl- 
inders of  the  phonograph.  The  former  transferred  them  to  smoked 
paper,  enlai^ng  them  by  means  of  a  system  of  levers.  The  lat- 
ter successfully  employed  a  mirror  and  a  beam  of  light  for  the 
same  purpose.  Scripture  made  use  of  the  flat  disks  of  the  gramo- 
phone and  a  system  of  levers.*  The  method  employed  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  California  is  to  make  Rousselot  tracings  direct  from  the 
voice  and  to  enlarge  them  by  microphotography.  A  rather  large 
and  long  rubber  speaking  tube  is  employed  with  a  glass  diaphragm 
2  inches  in  diameter  and  .008  of  an  inch  thick  (figure  24).  The  glass 
disk  is  connected  at  its  center  with  a  steel  swing-needle  which  carries 

>  Hermann,  Phonophotographische    Untersuchungen^  /.,  Arch.  f.  d.  Ges.  Physiol., 

1889. 

2  Bevier,  The  Acoustic  Analysis  of  the  Vowels  from  the  Phonograph  Record^  Physi- 
cal Review,  vol.  x,  193  (1900);   vol.  Xiv,  171  (1902). 

•  Scripture,  Researches  in  Experimental  Phonetics^  Stud.  Yale  Psychological  Labor- 
atory, 1899. 


GODDARD]     MECHANICAL   AIDS   TO  STUDY  OF  LANGUAGE  619 

a  Straw  with  an  attached  tracing  point  of  horn.  The  surface  of  the 
cylinder  upon  which  the  tracing  is  made  travels  at  the  rate  of  28 
centimeters  (i  i  ^  inches)  per  second.  The  waves  so  obtained  are 
analyzed  by  means  of  the  Le  Conte  curve  analyzer^  after  they  have 
been  sufficiently  enlarged. 

The  purely  physical  effects  of  language,  the  sounds  themselves, 
may  be  recorded  and  preserved  upon  the  commercial  phonographs, 
which  employ  wax  cylinders.  There  is  difficulty  in  breaking  up 
the  sounds  of  a  strange  language  so  recorded  into  words  and  in 
connecting  these  words  with  their  proper  meanings.  This  difficulty 
may,  in  part,  be  overcome  by  means  of  carefully  prepared  texts 
with  interlinear  translations  to  accompany  each  cylinder.  It  is 
greatly  to  be  regretted  that  phonograph  cylinders  are  not  more  dur- 
able and  permanent.  Phonograph  records,  in  any  case,  can  never  be 
sufficient  in  themselves  because  they  utterly  fail  to  show  the  physi- 
ological processes  by  which  the  sounds  upon  them  have  been  pro- 
duced, and  after  all  the  manner  of  making  the  sound  is  more 
important  in  the  study  of  language  than  the  sound  itself. 

University  of  California, 
Berkeley. 


'Lc  Conte,  An  Harmonic  Analyzer ^  Physical  Review,  vol.  Vli,  p.  27  (1898). 


RELIGIOUS   CEREMONIES  AND    MYTHS   OF   THE 

MISSION  INDIANS^ 

By  CONSTANCE  GODDARD  DUBOIS 

It  is  to-day  extremely  difficult  to  collect  the  relics  of  the  past 
among  the  Mission  Indians,  for  their  condition  is  in  many  respects 
unique  and  peculiar.  For  a  hundred  and  fifty  years,  since  first  the 
Franciscan  missionaries  organized  them  into  industrial  communities, 
they  have  been  under  the  influence  of  the  white  man's  civilization, 
and  this  has  resulted  in  the  abolishment  of  primitive  habits  and  cus- 
toms, so  that  a  superficial  observer  may  imagine  that  nothing  of  the 
sort  remains.  The  younger  generation  of  Indians,  under  our  false 
system  of  education,  have  lost  the  knowledge  of  the  past  Reli- 
gious teachers  have  long  inveighed  against  what  they  consider 
heathenish  superstitions.  In  consequence,  the  old  men,  influenced 
by  the  fear  of  ridicule  or  blame,  are  inclined  to  bury  the  secrets  of 
the  past  from  the  cognizance  of  the  unsympathetic  white  man. 

But  this  is  not  the  only  cause  of  the  prevailing  habit  of  conceal- 
ment. In  no  other  Indian  religion,  perhaps,  was  the  veil  of  mystery 
so  closely  drawn ;  and  the  intense,  almost  fanatical  devotion  of  the 
dwindling  remnant  of  old  men  to  the  sacred  things  of  their  ancient 
worship  is  directly  derived  from  the  reverence  induced  by  this  means. 

Father  Boscana,  a  Franciscan  missionary,  located  about  1825  at 
San  Juan  Capistrano,  and  working  in  the  region  lying  back  of  that 
place  in  the  mountains,  has  left  a  most  valuable  account  of  the  habits 
and  beliefs  of  the  Indians  under  his  charge,  including  the  Serranos 
(Luisenos)  with  some  mention  of  the  Dieguenos,  the  habits  of  the 
tribes  being  almost  identical,  though  their  language  and  origin  are 
diverse.  With  a  penetration  unequaled  at  the  time,  he  recorded  all 
that  he  was  able  to  observe,  and  he  prefaced  his  manuscript  with  a 
remark  which  is  well  expressed  and  literally   true. 

"It  is  difficult,"  he  says,  "if  unacquainted  with  their  language, 

*  Read  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  San  Francisco, 
August  29. 

620 


DUBOIS]        RELIGIOUS  CEREMONIES  OF  MISSION  INDIANS  62 1 

to  penetrate  their  secrets,  as  they  do  not  all  understand  the  significa- 
tion of  their  usages  and  customs,  this  knowledge  being  confined  to 
the  chiefs  of  their  tribes,  and  the  old  men  who  officiate  as  priests ; 
and  when  they  reveal  anything  to  their  children  it  is  only  to  such 
as  they  intend  to  rear  for  their  successors,  and  these  are  enjoined  to 
keep  fast  the  secrets  and  not  communicate  them  to  any  one  under 
pain  of  severe  chastisement.  A  veil  is  cast  over  all  their  religious 
observances,  and  the  mystery  with  which  they  are  performed  seems 
to  perpetuate  respect  for  them,  and  preserve  an  ascendancy  over  the 
people.  This  is  the  reason  that  the  ceremonies  of  the  dances  in 
their  grand  feasts,  which  are  properly  exercises  of  religion,  cannot 
be  understood." 

My  friend,  the  old  chief  of  the  Dieguenos,  Cinon  Duro  (Indian 
name,  Ho-ko-yel  Mut-a-weer)  has  told  me  some  of  these  sacredly 
guarded  myths ;  but  his  wrath  fell  upon  his  brother  Antonio  be- 
cause he,  without  permission,  had  related  to  me  the  story  of  Cuy- 
a-ho-mdrr,  which  I  published  in  the  Journal  of  American  Folk-lore 
under  the  title  "  The  Story  of  Chaup."  Each  son  of  the  old  chief 
Quum-ech-loup  had  his  own  story  with  its  accompanying  songs. 
Cinon,  the  eldest,  and  successor  in  the  chieftainship,  had  the  relig- 
ious myths,  the  story  of  creation,  the  death  of  the  god  Tuchaipa,  etc., 
together  with  all  the  knowledge  pertaining  to  the  conduct  of  the 
various  religious  festivals,  a  primitive  but  elaborate  ritual  full  of 
exact  detail. 

Antonio's  story  was  that  of  Cuy-a-ho-marr ;  and  the  three  other 
brothers,  now  dead,  had  each  his  story,  lost  at  his  death,  and  exist- 
ing only  as  stray  fragments  in  the  memories  of  the  hearers. 

In  regard  to  more  material  relics  of  the  past  the  same  holds 
good.  A  century  of  civilization  has  scattered  the  objects  of  primi- 
tive use.  The  collector  finds  little  that  is  distinctive,  except  those 
sacred  objects  which  have  been  handed  down  and  are  jealously 
guarded  and  seldom  to  be  had  for  money.  One  reason  for  the 
dearth  of  objects  of  use  and  decoration  is  the  custom,  still  prevailing 
to  a  limited  extent,  of  burning  the  house  and  possessions  of  the 
dead,  and  of  making  costly  feasts  for  an  anniversary  celebration  in 
honor  of  the  departed.  This  custom  rendered  it  impracticable  to 
occupy  enduring  homes,  though  the  primitive  style  of  building  was 


622  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

quite  substantial.  The  house  was  constructed  with  a  framework  of 
logs  set  on  end  to  form  the  walls,  and  held  in  place  by  cross-pieces 
supporting  slanting  rafters  at  the  top.  When  the  frame  was  made 
it  was  filled  with  closely  wattled  brush,  and  the  whole  was  then 
covered  with  earth,  an  opening  being  left  for  a  door,  which  was 
closed  with  a  hanging  of  deer-skin,  while  a  hole  in  the  apex  of  the 
roof  allowed  the  entrance  of  light  and  the  egfress  of  smoke  from  the 
fire  in  the  middle  of  the  floor. 

The  myths  are  full  of  allusions  to  the  house,  the  door,  and  the 
hole  in  the  roof,  while  the  rafters  of  the  house  are  referred  to  as  a 
hiding  place  from  the  search  of  an  enemy. 

The  primitive  r^x^ows  fiestas  (a  convenient  Spanish  word  to  ex- 
press the  gatherings  for  the  important  religious  ceremonies)  were, 
1st,  the  Toloac/ie  fiesta,  the  initiation  of  boys  at  puberty;  2d,  A-ktel^ 
the  fiesta  of  the  girls*  entrance  upon  womanhood ;  3d,  Wu-ka-rui, 
the  great  fiesta  of  the  Images  of  the  Dead,  and  4th,  the  Eagle  fiesta 
as  preparatory  to  Wii-ka-ruk,  and  necessary  to  obtain  the  feathers 
for  the  decoration  of  the  images  and  also  to  make  the  sacred  eagle- 
feather  skirt  for  the  Eagle  dance.  There  were  also  numerous  minor 
ceremonies  founded  on  local  beliefs,  each  requiring  an  all-night 
dance,  or  several  nights  of  dancing,  to  the  accompaniment  of  a  rattle 
or  of  a  basket  rubbed  and  pounded  with  a  stick,  etc.  At  the  girls* 
fiesta  the  accompaniment  to  the  song  was  the  striking  of  two  speci- 
ally selected  ringing  or  musical  stones  one  upon  the  other. 

The  Toloache  fiesta  was  first  in  importance,  since  only  those 
thus  initiated  could  take  part  in  the  religious  dances  and  other 
tribal  ceremonies.  Toloache  is  the  Spanish  name  for  the  plant 
Datura  metaloides,  of  which  the  Diegueno  name  is  kur-sckd  and  the 
Luiseno  nak^ -ta-mush.  The  roots  of  this  plant  were  dug  according 
to  custom  and  ritual,  which  carefully  governed  each  act  in  every 
ceremonial.  The  Dieguenos  dug  only  two  roots,  and  only  those 
running  toward  the  north  were  selected. 

A  great  bonfire,  the  largest  used  in  any  fiesta,  was  lighted,  the 
flames  reaching  high  into  the  air. 

The  song  of  the  pounding  of  the  root,  chd'k-e,  chd'k-e^  etc.,  in- 
troduced the  ceremony.  The  chief  sat  bending  forward  over  the 
toloache  mortera^  the  large  stone  mortar,  perfect  in  shape,  brought 


DUBOIS]        RELIGIOUS  CEREMONIES  OF  MISSION  INDIANS  623 

out  only  on  this  occasion  and  carefully  buried  from  sight  during  the 
rest  of  the  year.  The  roots  were  placed  within  it,  and,  lifting  the 
heavy  pestle,  he  expressed  the  juice  in  time  to  the  solemn  chant, 
pausing  at  intervals  to  give  a  curious  grunt  or  groaning  expiration 
used  in  many  of  the  dances.  Among  the  Luisenos  the  dried  root 
was  used  and  ground  into  powder. 

The  juice  or  the  powdered  root  being  mixed  with  water  in  a 
large  bowl,  the  drink  was  doled  out  to  the  candidates  for  initiation  in 
smaller  stone  bowls  of  symmetrical  shape  and  great  sacredness.  In 
the  center  of  the  sacred  house,  a  brush  enclosure  (casa  grande),  the 
chief  had  made  preparation  for  the  occasion  by  painting  upon  the 
ground  with  paint  and  variegated  sands  and  heaps  of  differently 
colored  seeds,  a  representation  of  various  figures  of  mystic  signifi- 
cance. He  depicted  the  world  with  its  mountains,  rivers,  and  lakes  ; 
the  rattlesnake,  object  of  dread ;  and  more  terrible  still,  because  less 
understood,  the  figure  of  the  Milky  Way,  Ha-taUkurr  (signifying 
'  backbone,*  because  it  is  the  backbone  of  the  sky).  Boscana,  not 
knowing  its  significance,  calls  this  "  the  uncouth  and  ridiculous  fig- 
ure of  an  animal." 

The  youths  were  instructed  in  their  future  duties  as  members  of 
the  tribe  and  participants  in  the  ceremonies,  and  were  threatened 
with  dire  punishment  if  they  should  prove  recalcitrant.  Ha-tat- 
kurr  would  break  their  backs  or  deprive  them  of  sight  if  they  failed 
in  the  appointed  way  of  life.  After  each  had  partaken  of  the  intoxi- 
cating drink,  the  dance  began.  The  men  crawled  in  on  all  fours 
with  strange  cries  and  groans  as  of  the  animals  which  they  appar- 
ently represented.  Men  and  women  took  part,  dancing  in  rows, 
the  men  in  feathered  head-dresses,  the  hechiccros  ('  witch-doctors,' 
'shamans')  with  their  wonder-working  plumed  sticks  tied  with 
bunches  of  tecolote  (Spanish  Mexican  for  '  owl ')  or  yellow-ham- 
mer feathers ;  the  initiated  youths  (each  being  led  and  supported 
by  his  sponsor,  as  we  might  say)  dancing  with  the  rest.  Soon  the 
madness  of  the  toloache  intoxication  began  to  manifest  itself  in 
wandering  senses  and  benumbed  limbs  ;  but  as  long  as  they  could 
stand  the  youths  were  dragged  forward,  half  carried  in  the  dance, 
till  at  last  they  sank  into  a  helpless  stupor.  When  this  stage  was 
reached,  they  were  given  into  the  guardianship  of  some  of  the  aged 


624  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

men  and  women  who  relieved  each  other  in  keeping  watch  over 
them  lest  they  should  stray  away  into  the  wilderness  and  be  de- 
stroyed. For  twenty-four  hours  or  more  they  remained  in  this  con- 
dition, and  for  three  days  they  fasted  from  all  food  and  drink,  while 
for  a  month  or  more  thereafter  they  could  eat  neither  meat  nor  salt 

Boscana  gives  a  full  description  of  this  fiesta,  and  he  brings  out, 
as  it  is  impossible  for  the  modem  observer  to  do,  its  importance  as 
leading  the  initiated  to  acquaintance  with  his  totem  animal. 

"  That  they  might  know  the  class  of  animal,"  he  says,  "  which 
the  god  had  selected  for  their  particular  veneration,  a  kind  of  drink 
was  administered  to  them  made  from  a  plant  which  was  reduced  to 
a  powder  and  mixed  with  other  intoxicating  ingredients.  Soon  after 
taking  this  preparation  they  became  insensible,  and  for  three  days 
were  deprived  of  any  sustenance  whatever.  During  this  period 
they  were  attended  by  some  old  men  and  women  who  were  contin- 
ually exhorting  them  to  be  on  the  alert  and  not  to  sleep  for  fear  the 
coyote,  the  bear,  the  crow,  or  the  rattlesnake  might  come ;  to  ob- 
serve if  it  were  furious  or  gentle,  and  to  inquire  of  the  first  that 
should  come  what  were  its  desires.  The  poor  Indian,  thus  intoxi- 
cated, without  food  or  drink,  suffering  under  delirium,  beheld  all 
kinds  of  visions  ;  and  when  he  made  known  that  he  had  seen  any 
particular  being  who  explained  the  observances  required  of  him, 
then  they  gave  him  to  eat  and  to  drink  and  made  a  grand  feast,  at 
the  same  time  advising  him  to  be  particular  in  obeying  the  com- 
mands of  the  mysterious  apparition."  Old  Indians  have  told  me 
that  after  they  had  drunk  the  toloache  the  earth  shone  with  dazzling 
colors ;  the  commonest  objects  were  transformed  into  beauty  and 
colored  with  rainbow  hues.  They  felt  for  a  time  possessed  of 
power,  wealth,  and  importance.  Not  every  one  saw  an  animal  in  a 
vision.  Those  who  had  this  experience  were  distinguished  above 
the  rest.  They  might  become  hechiccros  or  possess  powers  denied 
to  the  ordinary  man. 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  dance,  while  the  fire  was  still  burning, 
the  hechiccros^  of  whom  there  would  be  many  in  the  company, 
would  stand  about  in  a  circle,  and,  placing  their  plumed  sticks  or 
curved  swallowing  sticks  in  their  mouths,  would  in  some  unex- 
plained way  expel  from  their  stomachs  a  quantity  of  liquid  sufficient 
to  extinguish  the  fire. 


DUBOIS]        RELIGIOUS  CEREMONIES  OF  MISSION  INDIANS  625 

The  ceremony  for  girls,  called  A-keel  in  Dieguefto,  Wu-kun- 
isch  in  Luisefto,  was  conducted  in  a  somewhat  similar  way,  the  sand 
painting  and  the  threat  of  Ha-tat-kurr's  vengeance  in  case  of  diso- 
bedience being  the  same  in  both. 

The  girl  was  placed  in  a  hole  dug  in  the  ground  (which  had 
been  heated  by  a  fire  for  some  time  previous),  which  was  covered 
above  and  lined  beneath  with  boughs.  She  too  must  fast  for  several 
days,  and  for  a  long  time  refrain  from  everything  but  acorn  mush, 
or  pinole,  eating  no  meat  or  salt.  Sometimes,  voluntarily,  the  girl 
would  extend  her  fast  from  meat  and  salt  for  a  year,  or  even  for 
two  years,  in  the  belief  that  this  would  conduce  to  her  bodily  health 
and  vigor. 

The  fiesta  of  the  Images  was  one  of  the  most  important  cere- 
monies. It  is  still  occasionally  performed  in  a  modified  and  mod- 
ernized manner ;  but  in  the  old  days  it  required  a  year's  prepara- 
tion, and  great  elaboration  and  expense.  In  the  first  place  the 
eagle  must  be  killed  in  a  prescribed  manner  to  furnish  the  feathers 
for  the  decoration  of  the  images.  A  young  eagle  was  secured  in 
the  spring  and  kept  in  captivity  until  it  was  fully  grown,  when  it 
was  killed,  as  Boscana  says,  "  without  shedding  a  drop  of  blood." 
This  was  done  by  pressure  upon  the  lungs  and  heart.  The  red 
tail-feathers  of  the  yellow-hammer  were  also  obtained,  a  great  num- 
ber of  the  birds  being  slain  to  secure  them.  These  as  well  as  the 
owl  feathers  were  sacred  to  religious  use.  To  make  the  images, 
first  of  all  a  woven  matting  was  manufactured  by  taking  a  certain 
kind  of  tall  slim  rush  for  the  warp  and  twine  of  mescal  or  yucca  or 
milkweed  fiber  for  the  woof.  The  same  sort  of  matting  was  used  to 
wrap  up  sacred  bundles,  hechicero  sticks,  etc. 

When  the  matting  was  ready  it  was  slit  with  a  knife  in  two 
parts,  which,  being  rolled  up  separately,  made  the  legs.  The  upper 
part,  for  the  chest,  was  strengthened  by  two  sticks  laid  diagonally 
crossed  upon  it.  The  head  was  made  of  the  matting  with  a  crooked 
oak  stick  carefully  selected  as  to  shape,  placed  in  the  proper  posi- 
tion for  the  nose.  The  face  was  covered  with  cloth,  in  early  days 
with  buckskin,  and  the  mouth  was  painted  red  outside  and  black 
within,  where  teeth  carefully  shaped  from  pearls,  obtained  from  the 
coast,  or   something  resembling  them,  were   inserted.     The  eyes 


626  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

were  of  abalone  shell,  with  the  pupil  a  dot  of  black  wax.  Human 
hair  was  put  upon  the  head.  The  face  was  painted  and  decorated 
with  glistening  powdered  mica  stuck  on  with  thick  black  mescal 
juice.  The  characteristic  features  of  the  dead  man  whofti  the  image 
represented  were  reproduced  as  closely  as  possible.  The  finest 
decorations  were  then  placed  upon  the  figure  :  bunches  of  eagle  and 
of  yellow-hammer  feathers  were  stuck  upon  the  shoulders,  and 
strings  of  beads  and  other  ornaments  were  disposed  upon  it 
Around  the  neck  was  hung  a  net  like  a  small  carrying  net,  holding 
two  tiny  decorated  oUas  to  contain  food  and  drink  for  the  spirit  on 
its  journey  through  the  unseen  world. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  fiesta  a  ramada,  or  brush  building, 
was  constructed,  circular  except  at  one  end,  where  it  was  square. 
The  building  of  this,  like  every  act  connected  with  the  fiesta,  was 
done  in  a  prescribed  manner  according  to  an  elaborate  ritual.  Each 
part  of  the  ramada  had  a  name,  and  a  song  connected  with  its  con- 
struction. 

If  continued  for  a  week  the  dance  was  performed  every  other 
night.  In  later  times  the  fiesta  lasted  only  four  days  and  was  held 
every  night.  While  the  dancing  went  on  the  songs  were  sung,  as 
is  the  case  with  every  ceremony,  being  started  by  the  leader  of 
the  dance  and  taken  up  by  the  dancers,  the  women's  voices  rising  in 
an  accompanying  chorus.  Where  to-day  the  singers  profess  their 
ignorance  of  the  meaning  of  the  songs  of  the  different  dances,  it  is 
by  no  means  because,  as  some  have  judged,  they  are  in  an  archaic 
language,  but  by  reason  of  the  fact  that  the  story  of  the  songs  has 
been  forgotten,  having  been  known  in  perfection  only  to  the  chief 
or  leader  of  the  fiestas.  The  only  exception  to  this  is  in  the  war 
dance,  the  songs  of  which  are  in  the  Kawia  language,  hence  their 
signification  is  unknown  to  the  Dieguenos,  who  speak  a  distinct 
tongue.  The  story  of  the  songs  has  always  a  religious  purport ; 
but  each  song  is  only  a  part  of  the  whole,  advancing  the  narrative 
by  slow  degrees  or  connected  in  idea  with  the  main  subject. 

The  Image  fiesta  is  called  Wii-ka-ruk  in  Diegueno,  and  the 
songs  that  accompany  it  are  called  Cha! -yo-tai^ ,  Any  subject  con- 
nected with  death  would  be  appropriate  for  these  songs.  For  in- 
stance, one  song  refers  to  two  brothers  who  were  traveling  together 


DUBOIS]        RELIGIOUS  CEREMONIES  OF  MISSION  INDIANS  627 

when  one  was  bitten  by  a  rattlesnake.  He  died  of  the  bite,  and  his 
brother  was  afraid  of  his  spirit,  which  was  following  and  terrifying 
him.  Another  song  celebrates  Ish-pa,  the  Eagle,  killed  to  make 
the  fiesta,  and  describes  his  feelings  when  he  knows  that  death  is 
near.  Another  song  of  Wii-ka-nik  tells  of  the  death  of  Tu-chai-pa, 
which  was  brought  about  by  the  evil  machinations  of  the  frog. 

At  a  certain  point  in  the  dance  the  images  are  lifted  and  carried 
about  by  the  dancers,  who  dance  in  rows,  first  the  men  and  then 
the  women.  On  the  last  night  of  the  ceremony  the  images  are 
thrown  into  the  fire  and  are  consumed,  together  with  rich  gifts  of 
clothing,  baskets,  etc.  A  great  feast  is  then  held,  but  the  relatives 
of  the  dead  must  not  eat.  The  sanction  for  this  fiesta,  as  for  all  the 
religious  ceremonies,  is  to  be  found  in  the  myths.  I  will  give  one 
of  these,  told  by  an  aged  Indian  of  Manzanita.     I  call  it : 

The  Origin  of  Song  and  Dance 

In  early  days,  when  people  first  were  made,  at  the  mountain  called 
Wik-a-mee,  in  the  Mohave  country,  they  wanted  to  give  an  Image  dance, 
but  no  one  knew  how  to  perform  it.  No  one  then  had  any  songs  or  any 
knowledge  of  the  ceremonies  of  the  fiestas.  So  they  said,  **  What  shall 
we  do  ?     How  shall  we  manage  it  ?'  * 

Then  some  one  said,  **  I  know  a  place  where  a  man  lives  who  can 
give  us  a  song  and  dance.  * ' 

So  they  appointed  a  man  to  go  far  to  the  south,  to  where,  in  the 
islands  of  the  ocean,  lived  Mai-ha-o-witt,  who  was  able  to  teach  them  how 
to  do  it.  But  the  messenger  said :  **  How  can  I  go?  If  I  go  by  land  I 
shall  be  devoured  by  some  animal,  and  if  I  go  by  sea  I  shall  be  destroyed. '  * 
Then  they  said :  **  Make  yourself  the  foam  of  the  waves  and  float  along 
on  top  of  the  water ;  but  watch  carefully  that  nothing  swallows  you,  for 
in  that  way  alone  can  you  be  destroyed. "  So  he  turned  himself  into  the 
foam  of  the  waves,  and  floated  southward  on  top  of  the  water  that  carried 
him  down.  But  there  was  in  the  middle  of  the  river  Something  with  wide 
open  jaws  lying  in  wait  to  swallow  all  that  came  that  way.  And  in  the 
great  mouth  the  foam  was  swallowed  up  so  that  he  could  go  no  farther. 
He  was  in  darkness,  but  he  groped  about  and  felt  all  around  him  with 
his  hands.  **  It  must  be  that  I  was  swallowed,"  he  said.  So  he  reached 
out,  and  got  a  flint  knife,  and  cut  open  the  belly  of  the  thing,  and  got 
out  and  went  on  his  way. 

He  came  to  the  islands  of  the  sea  where  Mai-ha-o-witt  was  living. 

AM.  ANTH.  N.  S.,  7—49 


,1 
'.I 

'1 

I 

I' 

M 
l!' 


i 

.tl 


I" 

I 

!      I 

!:i 

1 


1  I 

I 

I 


628  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

"Who  is  there?*'  asked  Mai-ha-o-witt. 

"It  is  I." 

*  *  And  what  do  you  want,  coming  where  it  is  impossible  for  man  to 
come  ? ' ' 

**  We  want  to  make  the  fiesta  of  Images,  but  no  one  knows  how  to  do 
it.  They  told  us  you  could  teach  us,  and  I  ask  that  you  will  come  to  our 
home  and  show  us  how  it  should  be  done." 

**  I  consent.  Go  home  and  I  will  come.  Make  everything  ready,  and 
clear  the  road.  Make  a  ramada,  but  do  not  go  inside  of  it.  Then  watch 
for  my  coming.'* 

When  the  messenger  reached  his  home  he  told  them  that  Mai-ha-o- 
witt  was  coming,  and  day  and  night  they  kept  watch  for  him.  He  came. 
He  had  a  head  like  a  snake,  and  a  long  body,  very  long,  and  he  came 
through  the  air,  resting  himself  on  the  tops  of  the  mountains  that  border 
the  river,  making  a  white  streak  running  from  south  to  north  which  can 
still  be  seen.  When  he  reached  Wik-a-mee  his  head  came  first,  and 
then  he  came  crawling  into  the  ramada,  coil  upon  coil,  until  he  had  filled 
the  place. 

The  people  were  afraid,  and  one  man  threw  a  lighted  brand  on  top 
of  the  ramada  so  that  it  began  to  bum,  and  the  body  burned.  The  great 
tail  curled  up  with  the  heat,  and  the  body  burst  open,  and  out  came  fiery 
matter  which  flew  through  the  air,  and  the  people  swallowed  it.  From 
this  came  all  knowledge  and  power  of  song.  Every  one  who  swallowed 
this  matter  knew  at  once  how  to  sing  and  the  meaning  of  all  the  songs 
and  ceremonies.  So  the  body  burned  until  all  was  consumed  but  the 
head,  and  this  broke  loose  and  rolled  down  to  the  river  where  it  can  still 
be  seen  as  a  great  cave  in  the  rocks. 

Then  they  began  at  Wik-a-mee  to  make  all  the  songs  for  the  fiestas 
and  dances ;  and  from  there  the  knowledge  spread  to  the  western  Indians, 
those  who  lived  at  Manzanita,  and  elsewhere.  That  is  the  reason  also 
why  the  dead  are  burned. 

So  far  I  have  referred  chiefly  to  the  Dieguenos,  but  this  paper 
would  be  incomplete  if  no  mention  was  made  of  the  religion  of  the 
Luisenos. 

The  two  tribes  were  separated  by  a  lofty  mountain  ridge  which 
formed  a  natural  barrier,  by  no  means  insurmountable,  since  con- 
stant intercourse  was  carried  on  by  means  of  its  rugged  trails.  But 
it  marked  the  natural  limit  to  the  migratory  progress  of  the  Die- 
gueiios  in  this  direction,  while  toward  the  south  and  east  they  were 


DUBOIS]        RELIGIOUS  CEREMONIES  OF  MISSION  INDIANS  629 

connected  through  the  mountain  passes  with  the  desert  across  which 
they  had  originally  come.  The  Luisenos,  on  the  contrary,  through 
the  open  valleys  of  Temecula,  San  Luis  Rey,  Pala,  etc.,  had  their 
natural  connections  'with  the  members  of  their  family  who  lived 
near  the  coast. 

The  religion  of  Chung-itch-nish,  with  its  reverent  mystery  and 
awe-inspiring  ceremonies,  came  ^originally  from  this  direction,  and 
impressing  itself  upon  the  Dieguenos  mingled  its  ideas  with  their 
myths,  merging  the  characters  of  Chung-itch-nish  and  Oui-ot,  en- 
tirely distinct  in  Luiseno  conception,  with  the  Diegueno  Tu-chai-pa, 
who  dies  like  Oui-ot,  and  is  worshiped  like  Chung-itch-nish. 

The  Luisenos  claim  that  the  sacred  ceremony  of  the  toloache  in- 
toxication was  original  with  them  and  was  taught  by  them  to  the 
Dieguenos,  and  this  is  undoubtedly  the  case.  In  their  creation 
myth  the  tam-yush  (stone  pots  and  mortars  for  the  Toloache  fiesta) 
were  (as  people  originally)  the  first-bom  children  of  the  Earth- 
mother,  and  were  sent  by  her  abroad  —  north,  south,  east,  and  west. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  account  which  Boscana  gives  of 
the  belief  of  the  mountain  Indians  concerning  Chung-itch-nish 
(whom  he  calls  Chin-ig-chin-ich)  and  Oui-ot  can  be  verified  to-day 
in  the  remote  mountain  reservation  of  La  JoUa  (not  to  be  con- 
founded with  the  La  Jolla  on  the  coast),  and  the  creation  myth  as 
he  gives  it  is  substantially  the  same  as  that  told  by  the  old  men 
among  the  Luisenos  who  still  preserve  the  memory  of  the  past. 
These  interesting  myths  will  be  published  elsewhere. 

Waterbury, 

Connecticut. 


.1 

1 1 


I 
I    , 


THE  NAMING  OF  SPECIMENS   IN   AMERICAN 

ARCHEOLOGY ' 

By  C.  PEABODY  and  W.  K.  MOOREHEAD 

That  the  present  nomenclature  of  American  archeology  is  un- 
satisfactory is  felt  by  all  students.  Some  reasons  for  this  may  be 
given,  as  well  as  reasons  for  devising  a  better  one : 

1.  As  detailed  study  of  specimens  becomes  more  common, 
stricter  classifications  arise  ;  classification  is  ineffective  without  ade- 
quate names. 

2.  There  are  at  present  too  many  specimens  in  the  "  unknown  " 
class,  or,  as  Professor  Holmes  puts  it,  the  "problematical  *'  class. 

3.  The  present  naming  of  classes  is  too  loose,  entailing  a  multi- 
plicity of  headings  loosely  applied  ;  for  instance,  in  a  certain  study  * 
of  stone  ornaments  there  are  one  hundred  and  fifly-six  headings, 
and  in  the  excellent  classification  of  Mr  Douglass'  collection  of 
objects  *  there  are  ninety-one. 

4.  In  the  present  system  there  are  names  of  unscientific  or  un- 
dignified use  or  application  ;  for  instance  :  "  star-arrangements," 
**  mineral  lumps  "  (Douglass),  "  perforated  plates.'*  * 

5.  There  are  names  that  assume  uses  not  proved,  and  that  should 
be  written  in  quotation  marks ;  for  instance :  **  plummets,"  "  bar- 
amulets." 

6.  There  are  terms  indefinite  in  application  ;  for  instance  :  '*  club- 
stones"  (Douglass),  ** pitted"  and  **  cupped  stones,"  ''banner- 
stones,"  **  spool-shape  ornaments";'^  and  the  general  classes  of 
stones  given  the  compound  titles  ending  in  **  -shape  "  or  **-like." 

7.  There  are  English  names  not  closely  defined  or  that  are  sub- 
ject  to   variation  in  meaning  with  time  or  place ;   for  instance  : 

^  Read  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  San  Francisco, 
August  30. 

*  Study  prepared  by  C.  Peabody. 

*Cf.  A.  E.  Douglass,  Bull.  Am.  Mus.  of  Nat.  Hist.,  N.  V.,  vol.  viii,  art.  x. 
*C(.  W.  H.  Holmes,  Ar/ t/t  Shell,  Second  Rep.  Bur.  Ethnol.,  1880-81,  p.  264,  ff. 
«Cf.  Gerard  Fowke,  Stone  Art ,  Thirteenth  Rep.  Bur.  Ethnol.,  i89i-'92,  p.  125. 

630 


peabody-moorkhead]       naming  OF  SPECIMENS  63 1 

"bowls,"  "pot-shapecj  vessels,"  "wide-mouthed  bottles,"  "high- 
necked  bottles,"  "ordinary  forms,"  "  eccentric  forms."  * 

8.  There  are  sometimes  two  or  more  names  for  the  same  object ; 
for  example:  "spade,"  "spud,"  "hoe,"  "gorget;"  "disc,"  "dis- 
coid," "discoidal,"  "bicave  stone,"  "  chungke-stone ;"  "skinner," 
"flesher,"  "celt." 

9.  There  is  sometimes  a  single  name  for  two  or  more  distinct 
classes;  for  instance:  "  gorget  "  =  "  bracer,"  "breast-ornament," 
"  pendant,"  "  shuttle  "  ;  "  ceremonial  "  covers  a  multitude  of  ignor- 
ances ;  "  pendant "  is  an)^ing  perforated  apparently  for  suspension. 

10.  It  is  desirable  to  introduce  to  the  general  public  names  that 
may  be  substituted  for  the  common  and  commonplace  "toma- 
hawk," "  dart,"^  "  arrowhead,"  "idol,"  etc. 

11.  In  pottery,  especially,  a  more  definite  and  consistent  nomen- 
clature, based  perhaps  on  the  classical  differentiations,  is  needed. 

12.  The  spelling  and  form  of  present  names  should  be  made 
uniform  ;  cf.  "  disk,"  "  disc  "  ;  "  -shape,"  "  -shaped." 

13.  A  system  of  names  should  be  devised  that  needs  a  minimum 
of  interpretation  for  foreign  scholars. 

14.  Authority  is  needed  wherewith  to  establish  or  condemn  new 
words;  for  instance :  "Amerind,"  "artifact,"  "  nomenology." 

In  American  archeology  the  complete  classification  has  not  yet 
been  thought  out.  It  should  be  possible  for  a  committee  of  the 
American  Anthropological  Association  to  make  or  to  adopt  a  classi- 
fication, at  least  provisional,  in  each  material  —  stone,  bone,  shell, 
horn,  clay,  wood,  etc.  —  and  then  to  give  definite  names  to  definite 
types  in  each  material.  The  types  should  be  based  on  shape  and 
size  or  both,  and  the  uses  when  known,  or  at  any  rate  on  character- 
istics recognizable  in  the  subdivisions.  For  instance,  the  objects, 
generally  of  decorative  stone,  known  as  "  ceremonials,"  should  be 
renamed  and  those  most  clearly  defined  given  a  nomenclature  not 
subject  to  change  in  the  vernacular. 

In  like  manner  one  may  proceed  with  "  discs  "  (often  not  discs 
at  all),  with  vases,  with  bone  objects,  etc. 

There  will  remain  a  large  majority  of  objects  refusing  absolute 


>  Cf.  W.  H.  Holmes,  Ancient  Pottery  of  the  Mississippi  Valley ^  Fourth  Rep.  Bur. 
Ethnol.,  1 882-' 83,  contents,  pp.  vii,  viii. 


i 


632  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

certainty  of  classification ;  it  would  be  well  to  establish  a  limitation 
of  classes,  such  that  a  specimen,  otherwise  unknown,  can  be  de- 
scribed as  possessing  certain  characteristics  of,  say,  Class  A,  certain 
others  of,  say,  Class  B.  A  picture,  partial  at  any  rate,  is  then  pre- 
sented to  the  mind  of  the  reader. 

The  nomenclature  of  the  natural  sciences  is  not  ideal,  but  it  is 
fairly  definite,  and  the  use  of  the  so-called  dead  languages  takes  it 
out  of  the  region  of  variation  in  meaning. 

Latin  and  Greek  names  for  American  objects  are  difficult  for  the 
untrained,  through  whom  many  specimens  are  procured,  but  a 
judicious  compromise  between  the  unbending  Classics  and  the  fluc- 
tuating English  should  be  possible. 

It  is  necessary  that  the  naming  should  be  clear  and  dignified, 

and  if  results  are  to  follow  an  investigation  they  must  bear  the  stamp 

of  a  national  organization.     Such  an  inquiry  would  be  a  g^teful  act 

on  the  part  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association  to  attempt. 

Phillips  Academy, 

Andover,  Massachusetts. 

[Note.  —  At  the  San  Francisco  meeting  of  the  Association  a  committee  was  ap- 
pointed to  consider  and  report  on  the  feasibility  of  carrying  out  the  suggestion  made  by 
the  authors.  —  Editor, '\ 


A   FEW   ETHNOLOGICAL   SPECIMENS   COLLECTED 

BY    LEWIS   AND   CLARK  ^ 

BY   CHARLES   C.    WILLOUGHBY 

The  loss  to  American  ethnology  by  the  breaking  up  and  partial 
destruction  of  the  earlier  collections  of  examples  of  modem  Indian 
handicraft  can  be  appreciated  only  by  those  familiar  with  the  com- 
paratively few  remaining  specimens  of  the  liigher  class  of  these  ob- 
jects collected  previous  to  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century. 
The  relatively  small  collection  brought  together  by  Catlin,  for  ex- 
ample, probably  contained  more  choice  specimens  of  the  earlier 
handiwork  of  the  modem  tribes  of  the  Siouan  culture  area  than  all 
the  museums  of  America  can  ever  hope  to  bring  together  from  other 
sources.  A  few  of  the  objects  collected  by  Catlin  escaped  destruc- 
tion and  are  preserved  in  the  National  Museum,  the  Free  Museum 
of  Science  and  Art  of  Philadelphia,  and  the  Peabody  Museum  of 
Harvard  University.  These  examples,  however,  represent  but  a 
very  small  part  of  the  original  collection. 

The  ethnological  material  brought  together  by  Gov.  William  Clark 
in  his  museum  at  St  Louis  seems  to  have  suffered  a  fate  similar  to 
that  of  the  greater  portion  of  the  Catlin  collection.  Many  of  Gov- 
ernor Clark's  specimens  were  probably  collected  by  the  Lewis  and 
Clark  expedition.  Catlin,  being  a  friend  of  Clark's,  had  access  to 
his  museum  and  profited  by  it.  He  also  obtained  from  Clark  a 
number  of  objects  from  the  Columbia  river  region  which  are  gener- 
ally supposed  to  have  been  collected  by  Catlin.  Some  of  these  are 
in  the  National  Museum.  There  are  in  the  Peabody  Museum  at 
Cambridge  two  Chinook  cradles  and  a  wedge  for  splitting  wood 
which  were  in  the  Catlin  collection  and  doubtless  originally  be- 
longed to  Clark's  museum. 

The  first  winter  quarters  of  the  Lewis  and  Clark  expedition, 
Fort  Mandan,  was  situated  on  the  left  bank  of  the  Missouri,  seven 

^  Presented  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  Berkeley, 
California,  August  31. 

633 


634  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

or  eight  miles  below  the  mouth  of  Knife  river,  in  central  North 
Dakota.  It  was  in  the  heart  of  the  Indian  country,  and  the  mem- 
bers of  the  expedition  were  in  communication  not  only  with  the  In- 
dians of  that  vicinity  but  with  the  Assiml>oin,  Cree,  and  other  re- 
mote tribes.  This  afforded  an  unusual  opportunity  for  collecting 
objects  illustrating  the  ethnography  of  the  region.  It  will  always 
be  a  source  of  regret  that  such  an  opportunity  was  allowed  to 
pass  with  so  little  accomplished. 

On  April  3,  1805,  the  packing  of  the  articles  obtained  during 
the  winter  was  completed  and  a  list  prepared  of  the  specimens  con- 
tained in  the  three  cages,  four  boxes,  and  large  trunk.  These  were 
sent  to  St  Louis  upon  the  barge  which  started  on  its  return  trip  on 
April  7.  They  **  reached  Mr  Jefferson  and  some  of  them  were  long 
on  view  at  Monticello.  Others  passed  to  Peale's  Museum  in  Phila- 
delphia." *  A  list  of  these  objects  can  be  found  in  the  first  volume 
of  the  recently  published  **  Original  Journals  of  the  Lewis  and 
Clark  Expedition."  In  the  following  condensed  list  only  the  eth- 
nological material  is  enumerated  in  detail. 

Box  I  :   A  Mandan  bow  and  quiver  of  arrows  with  some  Ari- 
kara  tobacco  seed,  besides  several  natural  history  specimens. 
,   Box  2  :  Four  buffalo  robes  and  an  ear  of  Mandan  com. 

Box  4 :  Natural  history  specimens  and  '*  an  earthen  pot  such  as 
the  Mandans  manufacture  and  use  for  culinary  purposes." 

In  the  large  trunk  were  packed  several  natural  history  speci- 
mens, some  Arikara  tobacco,  a  Mandan  robe,  a  "  buffalo  robe  painted 
by  a  Mandan  man  representing  a  battle  fought  eight  years  since  by 
the  Sioux  and  Recaras  [Arikara]  against  the  Mandans,  Menitarras 
and  Ah-wah-har-ways  [Amahawi],  Mandans  &c  on  horse  back." 
Also  a  Minnetaree  buffalo  **  robe  containing  some  articles  of  Indian 
dress,''  which  unfortunately  are  not  listed  in  detail.  It  is  very  prob- 
able, however,  that  the  objects  shown  in  plates  xxxvii  and  xxxviii, 
a,  b,  were  a  part  of  the  contents  of  this  package. 
I  The    Charles  Wilson    Peale    Museum,   at    Philadelphia,   where 

I  many  of  the  specimens  collected  by  this  expedition  were  sent  either 

by  Mr  Jefferson  or  by  Lewis  and  Clark  personally,  was  established 
in  1785  and  had  a  successful  existence  of  nearly  fifty  years.     It  was 

1  Elliott  Coues,  History  of  the  Lewis  and  Clark  Expedition,  vol.  I,  p.  250,  note. 


wiLLOUGHBY]       SPECIMENS  FROM  LEWIS  AND   CLARK  63$ 

finally  discontinued  and  a  part  of  its  collections,  probably  a  majority, 
passed  to  the  well-known  Boston  Museum  which  in  its  earlier  days 
was  as  noted  for  its  cases  of  wax  figures,  its  ethnological  and  natural 
history  collections,  and  historical  objects  as  for  its  theater.  In  the 
winter  of  1 898-99,  a  fire  broke  out  in  the  Boston  Museum,  but  did 
little  damage  to  the  collections  in  the  exhibition  galleries.  In  the 
following  spring  the  interior  of  the  building  was  repaired  and  par- 
tially remodeled,  and  the  museum  which  gave  to  the  famous  play- 
house its  name  was  discontinued,  the  collections  being  distributed 
as  gifts  among  the  museums  of  Boston  and  vicinity.  The  Peabody 
Museum  of  Harvard  University  received  the  valuable  ethnological 
collection,  which  included  the  following  objects  as  well  as  several 
other  specimens  probably  also  collected  by  Lewis  and  Clark,  in- 
cluding the  Mandan  bow  noted  in  the  above  list.  The  label  be- 
longing with  the  bow  has  unfortunately  been  lost  and  there  is  no 
satisfactory  proof  of  its  identity. 

Raven  Skin  Badges  of  Office 

Plate  XXXVII,  a,  b,  c,  shows  three  badges  of  office  such  as  were  worn 
by  certain  individuals  belonging  to  various  tribes  of  the  Siouan  and 
other  linguistic  families.  The  group  shown  at  a  was  attached  to 
the  back  of  the  girdle  in  such  a  way  as  to  stand  out  horizontally. 
Those  shown  at  b,  r,  hung,  one  from  each  arm,  at  the  elbow. 
Similar  ornaments  are  seen  in  position  in  portraits  painted  by  King 
and  Catlin.  These  badges  were  worn  by  trustworthy  men  ap- 
pointed by  the  chief  An  idea  of  their  duties  may  be  derived  from 
the  following  account  by  Lewis  and  Clark  ^  of  one  seen  among  the 
Teton  Okandanda : 

**  While  on  shore  to-day  we  witnessed  a  quarrel  between  two  squaws, 
which  appeared  to  be  growing  every  moment  more  boisterous,  when  a 
man  came  forward,  at  whose  approach  every  one  seemed  terrified  and 
ran.  He  took  the  squaws  and  without  any  ceremony  whipped  them  se- 
verely. On  inquiring  into  the  nature  of  such  summary  justice  we  learned 
that  this  man  was  an  officer  well  known  to  this  and  many  other  tribes. 
His  duty  is  to  keep  the  peace,  and  the  whole  interior  police  of  the  village 
is  confided  to  two  or  three  of  these  officers  who  are  named  by  the  chief 

)  Lewis  and  Clark,  op.  cit.,  pp.  140,  141. 


1 


,r 


i' 


636  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

and  remain  in  power  some  days,  at  least  till  the  chief  appoints  a  successor. 
They  seem  to  be  a  kind  of  constable  or  sentinel,  since  they  are  always  on 
the  watch  to  keep  tranquility  during  the  day  and  guard  the  camp  at 
night.  The  short  duration  of  the  office  is  compensated  by  its  authority. 
His  power  is  supreme,  and  in  the  suppression  of  any  riot  or  disturbance 
no  resistance  to  him  is  suffered ;  his  person  is  sacred,  and  if  in  the  execu- 
tion of  his  duty  he  strikes  even  a  chief  of  the  second  class,  he  cannot  be 
punished  for  this  salutary  insolence.  In  general  he  accompanies  the  per- 
son of  the  chief  and  when  ordered  to  any  duty,  however  dangerous,  it  is 
a  point  of  honor  rather  to  die  than  to  refuse  obedience.  Thus  when  they 
attempted  to  stop  us  yesterday,  the  chief  ordered  one  of  these  men  to  take 
possession  of  the  boat ;  he  immediately  put  his  arm  around  the  mast,  and, 
as  we  understood,  no  force  except  the  command  of  the  chief  would  have 
induced  him  to  release  his  hold.  Like  the  other  men  his  body  is  black- 
ened but  his  distinguishing  mark  is  a  collection  of  two  or  three  ravens' 
skins  fixed  to  the  girdle  behind  the  back  in  such  a  way  that  the  tails  stick 
out  horizontally  from  the  body.  On  his  head  too  is  a  raven- skin  split 
into  two  parts,  and  tied  so  as  to  let  the  beak  project  from  the  forehead." 

The  badge  worn  at  the  back  (pi.  xxxvii,  a)  consists  of  an  oblong 
piece  of  rawhide  to  which  are  attached  four  raven  skins  with  the 
legs  removed.  These  are  in  a  fairly  good  state  of  preservation,  al- 
though but  one  retains  all  of  its  symbolic  appendages.  The  front 
part  of  each  skin  is  stuffed  with  a  roll  of  buckskin  which  projects 
and  is  turned  upward  and  backward.  The  beak  and  skin  of  the 
head  and  neck  are  fastened  to  the  end  of  this  roll  so  that  the  beak 
rests  upon  the  back  of  the  skin,  as  shown  more  clearly  in  the  arm 
ornament,  b.  The  upper  mandible  is  perforated  about  half  an  inch 
from  its  tip  and  to  it,  at  this  point,  are  attached  four  of  the  inner 
webs  stripped  from  the  tail-feathers  of  the  hawk  or  the  owl.  These 
webs  have  been  dyed  red. 

At  a  point  between  the  base  of  the  bill  and  the  eye  is  attached, 
upon  each  side,  a  loop  of  rawhide  about  three  inches  in  length.  The 
strip  forming  the  loop  is  about  one-fourth  of  an  inch  in  width  and  is 
wound  with  porcupine  quills  or  thin  strips  from  feather  shafts,  dyed. 
The  outer  third  of  the  loop  is  red,  the  inner  two  thirds  yellow. 
These  colors  are  separated  by  a  single  brown  quill.  At  the  base  of 
each  loop,  and  fastened  to  it  by  sinew  wrappings,  is  a  tuft  of  horse- 
hair, about  twelve  inches  long,  dyed  red. 


wiLLOUGHBY]       SPECIMENS  FROM  LEWIS  AND   CLARK  637 

The  wings  are  closed  and  brought  together  beneath  the  body 
and  tied  with  sinew.  A  carefully  finished  strip  of  hard  wood,  about 
eleven  inches  long  and  a  little  more  than  a  fourth  of  an  inch  wide, 
is  fastened  to  the  inner  side  of  the  outer  quills  of  each  wing.  These 
are  wrapped  with  porcupine  quills  in  their  natural  color  or  dyed 
red,  and  what  appear  to  be  split  roots  colored  black.  These 
wrappings  are  arranged  so  as  to  form  bands  and  figures  which  vary 
in  the  different  birds.  Each  end  of  the  stick  is  ornamented  with  a 
tuft  of  horse-hair,  dyed  red,  wrapped  with  a  strip  of  ermine  skin 
where  it  is  attached  to  the  stick.  Both  tufts  fall  in  the  same  direc- 
tion away  from  the  head. 

A  third  strip  of  wood,  a  little  wider  than  the  others  and  orna- 
mented in  the  same  way,  is  joined  to  the  base  of  the  tail  beneath 
the  coverts  and  extends  along  the  upper  side,  where  it  is  fastened 
to  the  shafts  of  the  upper  feathers.  The  design  formed  by  the 
arrangement  of  the  quill  wrappings  upon  these  tail-pieces  was  evi- 
dently the  same  in  each  of  the  four  birds.  Beginning  at  the  base 
of  the  tail  for  a  space  of  about  an  inch,  the  wrapping  is  of  white 
quills  followed  by  black  squares  upon  a  white  ground,  then  two 
inches  of  white  with  a  black  cross  in  the  center,  then  an  inch  and 
a  half  of  alternating  brown  and  white  transverse  stripes.  Below 
this  are  three  inches  of  orange  divided  into  three  sections  by  bands 
of  white,  each  two  quills  in  width. 

The  central  portion  of  the  web  of  the  feathers  upon  one  side  of 
each  tail  has  been  stripped  from  each  side  of  the  shafts  for  about 
three  inches  with  the  exception  of  the  central  feathers  and  the  outer 
feather  which  have  the  web  removed  from  the  inner  side  only.  Two 
of  the  birds  have  the  webs  removed  from  the  left  side  of  the  tail  and 
two  from  the  right  side. 

The  raven  ornaments  worn  at  the  elbow  (pi.  xxxvii,  b,  c)  lack  the 
four  pendant  feathers  of  the  beak,  and  the  webs  have  not  been  stripped 
from  one  side  of  the  tail.  The  quill  designs  also  differ  slightly, 
otherwise  they  are  the  same  as  the  four  skins  forming  the  back 
piece.  Specimen  6  is  in  nearly  perfect  condition,  but  c  is  somewhat 
dilapidated.  It  is  probable  that  the  three  pieces  belonged  to  the  same 
outfit. 

One  of  the  arm-pieces  was  accompanied  with  an  old  printed  label 


638  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

of  the  Peale  Museum  which  reads :  "  Ornament    Worn  upon  the 

elbow  by  the  Sioux  Indians.     Collected  by  Captains  Lewis  and 

Clarke." 

Mandan  Buffalo  Robe 

The  label  belonging  with  the  specimen  shown  in  plate  xxxviii,  r, 
has  been  lost,  but  there  can  be  no  question  as  to  the  identity  of  the 
robe.  We  learn  from  the  list,  already  quoted,  that  the  battle  repre- 
sented thereon  was  fought  about  the  year  1 797  by  the  Sioux  and 
Ankara  against  the  Mandan,  Minnetaree,  and  "  Ah-wah-har-ways," 
and  that  the  "Mandans  &c"  were  on  horseback.  There  are  sixty- 
four  Indians  shown  in  the  painting,  twenty  of  whom  are  mounted. 
With  one  exception  the  figures  are  outlined  in  brownish-black. 
This  exception  is  the  mounted  warrior  just  above  the  nuddle  of  the 
central  line  of  quills  and  to  the  left  of  the  stooping  figure  shooting 
an  arrow.  This  mounted  Indian  is  red  with  black  head  and  hair. 
He  carries  a  green  shield  with  concentric  circles  of  red,  having  a 
yellow  center.  Some  of  the  other  shields  are  painted  with  these 
colors,  differently  grouped.  The  horses  are  outlined  in  brownish 
black.  Some  of  their  bodies  are  painted  brown,  others  yellow  or 
red.     A  few  "calico"  horses  are  represented. 

The  contestants  are  armed  with  spears,  bows  and  arrows,  guns, 
and  tomahawks,  a  few  individuals  having  both  guns  and  bows  and 
arrows.  A  number  are  shown  in  the  act  of  shooting  arrows, 
throwing  spears,  or  striking  with  tomahawks.  The  latter  weapon 
is  represented  sticking  in  the  head  of  two  or  three  individuals. 

The  central  dividing  line  is  wrought  with  porcupine  quills  in 

white,  black,  green,  red,  and  yellow.     It  is  probably  symbolic  of  a 

path  or  trail  connected  in  some  way  with  the  battle  shown  in  the 

picture. 

Otter-skin  Bag 

The  quill-ornamented  otter-skin  bag  shown  in  plate  xxxvii,  rf,  is  an 
unusually  fine  example  of  a  **  medicine-bag  *'  used  in  the  ceremonies 
of  the  widely  distributed  Shell  Society  and  as  a  receptacle  for  the 
shell  and  other  sacred  objects.  Catlin  figures  similar  bags  which  he 
calls  tobacco  pouches.  The  old  printed  label  of  the  Peale  Museum 
accompanying  this  reads  as  follows :  "  Sioux  Tobacco  Pouch.  Sent 
to  Capts.  Lewis  and  Clark  by  the  Sock  [Sauk]  Nation.     Presented 


WILLOUGHBY]       SPECIMENS  FROM  LEWIS  AND   CLARK  639 

by  Capts.  Lewis  and  Clarke."  The  skin  is  uncut  with  the  excep- 
tion of  a  slit  in  the  throat  through  which  the  body  of  the  animal  was 
removed,  and  the  underside  of  the  tail  which  was  split  its  entire 
length  and  opened  flat.  The  feet,  underside  of  the  tail,  and  the 
anal  opening  are  covered  with  pieces  of  buckskin  dressed  without 
the  hair  and  ornamented  with  elaborate  designs  in  porcupine  quills, 
the  colors  being  black,  white,  and  orange.  The  tail-piece  is  bordered 
upon  the  sides  and  the  feet  coverings  upon  their  lower  edges  with 
pendants  of  tin  and  deer  hair.  A  looped  ornament  of  buckskin 
wrapped  with  quills  is  fastened  to  each  ear.  These  probably  have 
a  significance  similar  to  that  of  the  looped  ornaments  at  each  side  of 
the  ravens*  heads  illustrated  in  the  same  plate. 

Cree   WomerC  s  Dresses 

The  two  garments  shown  in  plate  xxxviii  a,  ^,  are  of  unusual 
interest,  as  they  illustrate  a  very  rare  type  of  dress.  They  were  un- 
doubtedly obtained  from  the  party  of  Cree  (Knisteneaux)  that  came 
down  from  the  vicinity  of  the  Saskatchewan  river  in  November,  1 804, 
to  Fort  Mandan.  Clark  writes  :  "  Our  Interpeter  informs  that  70 
Lodges  one  of  3  bands  of  Assinniboins  &  some  Crestinoes  [Knis- 
teneaux] are  at  the  Mandan  Village.  The  Crestinoes  are  aW  300 
(240)  men  Speak  the  Chipaway  Language  the[y]  live  near  Fort 
De  prari  (on  Assiniboin  &  Assaskashawan)  they  are  bands  of  the 
Chippeways."  * 

The  native  dress  of  a  Knisteneaux  woman  is  thus  described  by 
Mackenzie  } 

*  *  The  female  dress  is  formed  of  the  same  material  [moose  skin]  as 
those  of  the  other  sex  but  of  a  different  make  and  arrangement.  Their 
shoes  are  commonly  plain  and  their  leggings  gartered  beneath  the  knee. 
The  coat  or  body  covering  falls  down  to  the  middle  of  the  leg  and  is 
fastened  over  the  shoulder  with  cords,  a  flap  or  cape  turning  down  about 
eight  inches  before  and  behind  and  agreeably  ornamented  with  quill  work 
and  fringe ;  the  bottom  is  also  fringed  and  fancifully  painted  as  high  as 
the  knee.  As  it  is  very  loose  it  is  enclosed  round  the  waist  with  a  stiff 
belt  decorated  with  tassels  and  fastened  behind.     The  arms  are  covered 


*  Original  Journals  of  the  Lewis  and  Clark  Expedition^  Thwaites  cd.,  1 905,  vol. 
I,  p.  222. 

^Voyages^  vol.  I,  pp.  xc,  xd. 


640  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

to  the  wrist  with  detached  sleeves,  which  arc  sewed  as  far  as  the  bend  of 
the  arm ;  from  whence  they  are  drawn  up  to  the  neck,  and  the  comers  of 
them  fall  down  behind  as  low  as  the  waist.  The  cap  when  they  wear 
one,  consists  of  a  certain  quantity  of  leather  or  cloth,  sewed  at  one  end, 
by  which  means  it  is  kept  on  the  head,  and,  hanging  down  the  back,  is 
fastened  to  the  belt  as  well  as  under  the  chin.  The  upper  garment  is  a 
robe  like  that  worn  by  the  men.  Their  hair  is  divided  on  the  crown  and 
tied  behind,  or  sometimes  fastened  in  large  knots  over  the  ears." 

The  dresses  illustrated  are  alike  on  both  sides  and  are  each 
made  of  two  nearly  rectangular  pieces  of  skin  of  about  equal  size, 
dressed  without  the  hair.  The  piece  forming  the  upper  portion  of 
the  garment  is  folded  horizontally  through  the  center,  then  perpen- 
dicularly in  the  middle.  A  slit  is  cut  through  the  upper  half  of  the 
second  fold  for  one  arm.  The  upper  folded  edges  are  joined  over 
the  shoulders  with  a  short  strap  and  thongs,  but  the  side  for  the 
other  arm  is  left  open.  The  second  piece  forming  the  skirt  is 
broader  at  the  lower  edge  to  give  fulness.  It  is  folded  once  per- 
pendicularly and  the  edges  at  the  right  side  are  sewed  together. 
The  skirt  is  then  joined  to  the  upper  part  of  the  garment  by  sewing 
its  upper  edge  to  the  lower  edge  of  the  inner  fold  of  the  waist 
There  is  an  ornamental  band  about  two  inches  in  width  joined  at  its 
upper  edge  to  each  skirt  not  far  from  the  bottom.  Both  garments 
are  ornamented  with  the  characteristic  linear  designs  used  upon 
women's  clothing  in  early  times. 

The  upper  portion  of  the  dress  shown  at  a  is  ornamented  with 
blue  beads  and  brass  buttons,  doubtless  obtained  from  the  Hudson 
Bay  Company  traders.  Below  are  horizontal  and  perpendicular 
bands  of  lines  seared  with  a  hot  bone.  The  skirt  is  decorated  with 
symbolic  lines  and  bars  in  blue,  green,  yellow,  red,  and  white  por- 
cupine quills,  with  tufts  of  red  worsted  at  intervals.  The  applied 
band  near  the  bottom  is  covered  with  a  blue  bead  ground-work  with 
transverse  ladder-like  bars  of  white  beads.  This  is  bordered  on  the 
lower  edge  with  pendants  of  tin  and  deer  hair.  The  primary  func- 
tion of  this  ornamental  band  is  probably  to  strengthen  the  lower 
portion  of  the  skirt. 

The  accompanying  label,  written  in  the  same  hand  as  many 
others  from  the  Peale  Museum,  is  as  follows:    "Indian  Hunting 


nd  Arikuiji  SKiiioi  ihiMindnn,  Minilari,  and  "  Ali»uhlutivay>"  |An 
INDIAN  OBJECTS  COLLECTED  BY  CAPTAINS   LEWVi  »»WJ  *; 


willoughby]         specimens  OF  LEWIS  AND  CLARK  64 1 

Shirt  made  of  Buf&Io  skin.  This  was  formerly  owned  and  worn  by 
Capt  Clark  in  his  Exploring  Expedition.  Presented  to  Peale's 
Museum  by  Capt.  Lewis  and  Clark." 

The  other  dress  {S)  is  ornamented  with  painted  lines  and  char- 
acteristic figures  in  red  and  black.  A  bar  along  the  upper  part  of 
the  waist,  the  disks  on  the  breast,  the  band  near  the  bottom  of  the 
skirt,  and  the  ornamental  figures  just  above  this  band  are  wrought 
with  blue  and  green  beads.  The  label,  written  in  the  same  hand  as 
the  other,  reads  :  "  Indian  Hunting  Shirt  formerly  owned  by  Capt. 
Lewis.     Presented  to  Peale's  Museum  by  Capt.  Lewis  and  Clark." 

Peabody  Museum,  Harvard  University, 
Cambridge,  Mass. 


MAYA   DATES  ^ 
By  J.  T.  GOODMAN 

The  more  comprehensive  paper  I  had  prepared  for  this  occasion 
was  found  to  be  too  long.  It  is  as  well,  perhaps,  for  the  only  gen- 
eral interest  in  my  subject  is  as  to  just  how  old  the  Maya  ruins  are. 

Many  efforts  have  been  made  to  satisfy  that  curiosity ;  they  can 
be  only  guess-work,  however,  until  the  ancient  Maya  chronology  is 
aligned  with  ours.  But  one  possible  way  of  doing  this  exists  :  that 
is,  by  correlating  the  Xiu  and  Archaic  chronological  calendars. 
There  have  been  several  attempts  in  that  line,  but  those  I  have  seen 
were  based  on  mistaken  premises  and  therefore  must  of  necessity  be 
wrong. 

It  is  not  certain  the  thing  can  be  done  even  by  the  use  of  proper 
data ;  but  as  our  only  present  hope  of  coordinating  the  Archaic 
dates  with  ours  lies  in  such  a  correlation,  I  have  deemed  it  worth 
while  to  make  one  as  correct  as  possible. 

There  are  two  chief  obstacles.  If  we  could  be  sure  they  were 
overcome  without  violence,  not  a  particle  of  doubt  would  remain. 

The  first  is  that  the  katuns  were  computed  differently  in  the 
two  systems  —  the  Archaic  reckoning  by  a  cycle  of  20  katuns,  the 
Xius  by  one  of  1 3  ;  the  former  numbered  in  the  order  of  their  suc- 
cession, the  latter  designated  by  their  terminal  day  number. 

But  this  objection  seems  to  vanish  in  face  of  the  fact  that  the 
Archaic  system,  in  addition  to  its  20-katun  cycle,  had  a  13-katun 
count  also  —  specified  for  some  reason  as  '*  the  16-day  reckoning  " 
—  in  which  the  katuns  were  designated  by  their  terminal  day  num- 
ber, exactly  as  in  the  Yucatec  plan. 

I  will  state  here,  by  the  way,  that  I  have  found  good  reasons  in 
the  inscriptions  for  revising  my  chronological  calendar  in  one  par- 
ticular.    The  signs  which  I  thought  indicated  the  beginning  really 

*  Read  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  Berkeley, 
California,  August  31. 

642 


GOODMAN]  MAYA  DATES  643 

denote  the  end  ;  so  that  what  appears  in  the  tables  as  the  first  day 
of  an  ahau,  katun,  cycle,  or  great  cycle  is,  instead,  the  last  day  of 
that  period.  Fortunately  the  numbering  is  such  that  no  change 
will  be  required  in  that  respect.  The  notation  of  dates  will  be 
exactly  the  same  as  now,  only  it  will  mark  the  end,  not  the  begin- 
ning, of  the  periods  recorded.  Thus  the  two  calendars  are  brought 
into  conformity  in  this  important  regard. 

The  second  obstacle  is  that  the  annual  calendars  of  the  systems 
in  question  do  not  agree,  there  being  a  difference  of  one  in  the 
month  numbers  of  the  days.  But  that  difficulty  also  seems  to  dis- 
appear under  examination. 

It  is  certain  the  Xius  migrated  from  a  region  where  the  Archaic 
calendar  was  in  use,  for  the  style  of  chronological  reckoning  they 
brought  with  them  and  preserved  to  the  last  does  not  accord  with 
that  of  any  other  of  the  Maya  branches,  as  the  Quiches  or 
Cakchiquels. 

Now,  what  would  likely  happen  when  a  people  settled  in  a 
country  where  a  different  calendar  was  in  vogue  ?  As  they  came 
into  intercourse  with  the  older  settlers  they  would  naturally,  for  the 
sake  of  convenience,  adopt  the  current  day  and  year  count,  but  retain 
their  chronological  one  in  order  to  keep  their  records  unbroken. 

It  is  evident  that  precisely  this  happened  with  the  Xius  in  their 
new  home.  Two  of  the  chronicles  state  that  **  Pop  was  put  in 
order  "  shortly  after  they  came  in  contact  with  the  Itzas.  As  men- 
tion of  this  fact  occurs  only  in  the  chronicles  of  the  Xius,  as  they 
did  not  conform  their  chronological  count  to  the  standard  of  their 
neighbors,  and  as  there  was  no  necessity  for  any  other  change,  this 
in  all  likelihood  refers  to  their  adoption  of  the  Yucatec  annual 
calendar. 

Whatever  period  it  may  have  been  necessary  to  intercalate  or 
cancel  to  effect  this  change  —  whether  but  a  day,  or  years  —  one 
consideration  had  to  be  kept  in  view :  the  order  of  their  chronological 
count  must  not  be  disturbed. 

Now,  that  order  did  not  consist  merely  of  every  katun  ending 
with  a  number  two  less  than  its  predecessor.  It  involved  the  regular 
succession  of  seventy-three  different  month  dates  as  well,  any  disar- 
rangement of  whose  sequence  would  throw  their  chronology  into 

AM     ANTHK  ,  N.  S  ,  7-43 


644  AMERICAN  ANTHR0P0L0GIS7  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

confusion.  Hence,  supposing  the  change  to  have  been  made  at  the 
close  of  a  katun  ending  with  13  Ahau-17  Pop  (as  it  was),  the  suc- 
ceeding katun  must  terminate  with  1 1  Ahau-2  Pax,  however  much 
it  had  to  be  lengthened  or  shortened  in  order  to  do  so,  else  the 
whole  Xiu  chronological  scheme  would  have  been  thrown  into 
disorder. 

That  no  other  change  was  made  is  certain  from  the  facts  that  the 
Xius  did  not  align  their  katun  count  with  that  of  the  Itzas,  Cocoms, 
and  Chels,  and  that  its  character  remained  unaltered  and  its  con- 
tinuity unbroken  from  the  time  they  left  their  mother-country. 

The  two  main  obstacles  being  thus  disposed  of  with  a  reasonable 
assurance  of  certitude,  the  way  is  cleared  for  the  next  step,  which  is 
to  identify  some  day  of  the  Yucatec  annual  calendar  with  the  cor- 
responding one  of  our  era. 

Luckily  two  dates  are  given  by  the  native  writers  with  a  par- 
ticularity that  renders  their  position  unmistakable. 

Dr  Brinton  states,  in  his  Maya  Chronicles^  that  one  of  the  manu- 
scripts (presumably  in  his  possession)  gives  the  year  Montejo  arrived 
at  Chicchen  Itza  as  1 1  Muluc. 

Nakuk  Pech's  **  Chronicle  of  Chicxulub,"  in  the  same  volume, 
says  the  year  the  Spaniards  settled  in  Merida  was  1 3  Kan. 

These  statements  agree,  which  renders  them  reliable  beyond 
cavil.  We  may  be  positive  therefore  that  July  16,  1526,  was  the 
Yucatec  day  11  Muluc,  and  July  16,  1541,  13  Kan. 

The  death  of  Napot  Xiu,  the  ahpula,  or  priestly  heir  to  the 
throne,  is  the  event  we  must  rely  upon  to  fix  exactly  the  terminal 
day  of  a  Xiu  katun.  It  is  the  reef  on  which  all  the  chronologists 
have  been  wrecked. 

The  dates  of  other  occurrences  are  given,  but  none  so  circum- 
stantially as  this.  Besides,  it  was  an  important  event  in  Xiu  history, 
and  would  likely  be  carefully  chronicled. 

The  chroniclers  confused  the  account  by  attempting  to  g^ve  the 
year  of  our  era.  Like  every  other  of  our  dates  given  by  them,  it  is 
wrong.  They  were  invariably  misled  by  the  difference  between  our 
years  and  their  ahaus.  But  they  all  agree  that  the  ahpula  died  on 
the  day  9  Ymix,  the  1 8th  of  the  month  Zip,  in  the  year  beginning 
with  4  Kan.  As  this  was  their  own  style  of  reckoning,  there  is 
every  reason  for  supposing  the  date  to  be  correct. 


GOOD34AN]  MAYA  DATES  64$ 

Now,  1 541  being  a  Kan  year  (as  the  two  authorities  just  men- 
tioned assure  us  it  was),  it  is  impossible  that  1536  —  the  year  in 
which  it  is  said  the  ahpula  died  —  could  have  been  one  also.  It 
was,  in  fact,  the  year  8  Cauac.  The  only  4  Kan  year  within  a 
reasonable  range  began  in  1545. 

The  translators  have  confused  the  account  of  the  ahpula*s  death 
still  more  by  construing  one  of  the  sentences  so  as  to  read  :  "  For 
six  years  the  count  of  the  13  Ahau  will  not  be  ended,"  whereas  it 
actually  says  :  **  The  sixth  year  will  not  end  from  the  count  of  the 
13  Ahau." 

This  makes  a  great  difference  and  gives  a  very  definite  location 
to  the  end  of  that  katun.  It  could  be  only  13  Ahau-7  Xul,  Oc- 
tober 30,  1539.  Counting  by  calendar  years  there  would  be  five 
years  and  fifteen  out  of  their  eighteen  months  to  9  Ymix-i8  Zip, 
September  1 1,  1 545,  the  day  the  ahpula  died  ;  reckoning  by  ahaus, 
as  it  is  likely  the  natives  computed  it,  but  nineteen  days  would  be 
lacking  to  complete  the  sixth  ahau  from  the  end  of  the  13  Ahau 
katun.  No  other  1 3  Ahau  would  fit  the  conditions  in  either  way, 
while  this  fulfills  them  in  both.  But,  to  fortify  its  position,  I  will 
cite  some  additional  proof. 

Landa  states  that  the  natives  said  the  Spaniards  arrived  at 
Merida  during  the  month  Pop,  1541,  which  was  the  first  year  of  the 
1 1  Ahau  katun.  This  information  must  have  come  from  the  Xius, 
for  the  1 1  Ahau  katun  of  the  Itzas,  Cocoms,  and  Chels  began  De- 
cember 25,  1536. 

The  month  Pop,  1541,  was  really  in  the  second  ahau  of  the  Xiu 
1 1  Ahau  katun,  as  we  would  count ;  but  as  periods  were  not  reck- 
oned by  the  Mayas  until  they  had  wholly  elapsed,  speaking  of  the 
date  in  round  numbers  the  natives  would  say  it  corresponded  to  the 
first  ahau. 

It  has  been  generally  assumed,  however,  that  this  statement  of 
Landa  and  that  of  the  chronicles  (that  the  ahpula  died  in  1536, 
when  according  to  the  mistranslation  six  years  were  wanting  to 
complete  the  katun)  are  strongly  corroborative,  and  therefore  the 
13  Ahau  katun  must  have  ended  in  1541. 

The  assumption,  notwithstanding  its  outrage  of  arithmetic,  seems 
plausible  in  a  vague  sort  of  way ;  but  the  chronicles  themselves 
upset  it. 


646  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

All  the  Xiu  chronicles  say  Landa  died  in  the  7  Ahau  katun. 
By  a  chronological  count  based  on  the  13  Ahau  katun  ending 
October  30,  1539,  the  7  Ahau  katun  would  beg^n  April  14,  1579, 
the  very  year  and  month  in  which  Landa  died ;  therefore  any  date 
more  than  seventeen  days  later  than  October  30,  1539,  ^^^  ^^  ^'^^" 
ing  of  the  13  Ahau  katun  would  bring  Landa's  death  into  the  9 
Ahau  katun. 

Thus  the  assurance  given  us  by  the  annual  calendar  is  made 
doubly  sure,  and  we  may  rest  certain  that  the  13  Ahau-7  Xui  which 
fell  on  October  30,  1539,  was  the  end  of  a  13  Ahau  katun  in  the 
Xiu  chronological  count 

We  now  turn  to  the  Archaic  calendar  for  a  katun  ending  with 
13  Ahau-8  Xul,  remembering  we  are  supposed  to  have  overcome 
the  difference  of  a  day.  We  must  also  keep  in  mind  that  owing  to 
my  rearrangement  of  the  calendar  it  will  be  a  date  now  at  the  head 
of  a  column. 

Happily,  in  support  of  the  correctness  of  the  Xiu  chronolc^y, 
we  find  it  in  a  very  reasonable  position — the  i6th  katun  of  the  nth 
cycle  of  the  5  4th  great  cycle. 

Assuming  that  date  to  have  been  October  30,  1539  («^  the  fore- 
going considerations  show  there  is  just  reason  for  doing),  we  are 
enabled  to  align  every  other  date  in  the  Archaic  scheme  and  to  fix 
at  least  the  prosperous  period  of  all  the  ruined  cities. 

The  result  shows  that  Copan,  Quirigua,  Tikal,  Menche.  Piedras 
Negras,  and  the  other  more  modern  capitals,  flourished  from  the 
sixth  to  the  ninth  century  of  our  era,  speaking  in  round  terms,  and 
that  Palenque  was  in  existence  3,143  years  before  Christ 

I  am  aware  that  the  older  Palenquean  dates  are  so  remote  that 
it  has  been  commonly  agreed  to  discredit  their  historical  value. 
There  is  no  warrant  for  this.  They  stand  on  exactly  the  same  foot- 
ing as  the  dates  assumed  to  be  historical,  and  all  must  be  accepted 
or  rejected  alike. 

But,  apart  from  this  general  reason,  there  is  definite  proof  of 
their  historical  value. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  initial  dates  in  tlie  inscriptions.  One 
sort  is  merely  a  starting-point  from  which  to  project  a  computation 


GOODMAN]  MAYA  DATES  647 

illustrative  of  some  peculiar  style  of  reckoning :  as  that  on  the  east 
face  of  Stela  C,  Quirigua,  demonstrating  the  ways  by  which  a  great 
cycle  can  be  reckoned  ;  those  on  Stela  C,  Copan,  showing  a  count 
by  4,680  years,  or  ninety  calendar-rounds ;  that  on  the  steps  at 
Palenque,  and  so  forth. 

It  will  be  observed  that  this  style  of  dates  is  never  followed  by 
what  I  termed  **the  initial  directive  series,"  but  which  the  Harvard 
school  designates  "the  supplemental  series."  This  series  —  which, 
whatever  we  may  name  it,  the  Mayas  called  "the  day  reckoning" 
—  was  a  computation  by  single  days  to  180,  originally,  but  later  to 
200 ;  thence,  respectively,  to  3,600  and  4,000  days ;  but  in  both 
cases  it  led  up  to  seventy-three  S-afiau,  or  360-year,  reckoning.  It 
started  from  a  different  date  in  every  city,  and  began  with  a  different 
day  in  all  of  them  except  Copan  and  Quirigua. 

There  can  be  but  one  inference  from  this  general  diversity  in  a 
system  where  everything  else  was  uniform — namely,  that  it  was  an 
ab  urbes  condita  reckoning,  showing  the  relation  of  the  regular  chro- 
nological count  to  one  from  the  founding  of  each  particular  city. 
In  other  words,  every  city,  in  addition  to  the  standard  chronology 
common  to  the  whole  race,  had  a  reckoning  from  the  date  of  its 
founding — like  Rome.  Therefore  it  is  reasonably  certain  that  all 
the  initial  dates  which  are  accompanied  by  this  supplemental  series 
are  historical. 

The  earliest  Palenque  dates  are  not  only  followed  by  it,  but  it 
appears  there  in  a  form  so  radically  different  and  primitive  as  to  re- 
quire a  vast  stretch  of  time,  considering  the  conservatism  shown  in 
everything  else,  to  account  for  its  later  development  in  the  other 
cities.  Hence,  those  dates  are  not  only  historical,  but  they  bear  an 
unmistakable  badge  of  relatively  great  antiquity. 

Alameda, 

California. 


BASKET   DESIGNS   OF  THE   POMO    INDIANS* 

By  S.  a.  BARRETT 

The  following  is  a  preliminary  account  of  the  basket  designs  of 
the  Porno  Indians  of  California  and  is  intended  to  show  only  the 
more  important  features  of  the  subject.     It  is  based  chiefly  on  in 
vestigations  carried  on  during   1904  for  the   Department  of  An- 
thropology of  the  University  of  California.     Among  the  seven  dia- 
lects of  the  Pomo  linguistic  stock  there  are  but  three,  the  Northern, 
Central,  and  Eastern,  all  in  central  Mendocino  and  central  Lake 
counties,  that  are  now  spoken  by  any  considerable  number  of  Indians, 
and  with  the  people  in  this  particular  region  the  art  of  basket  mak- 
ing is,  at  present,  on  the  whole  more  highly  perfected  than  with  the 
people  of  the  remaining  Pomo  area.     Consequently  it    is   chiefly 
from  the  people  of  these  three  dialectic  groups  that  information 
concerning  basketry  was  obtained. 

In  technique  Pomo  basketry  shows  great  variety.  Of  coiling 
there  are  two  forms  :  single-rod  and  three-rod  foundation.  Of 
twining  there  are,  exclusive  of  those  used  for  border  finish  only, 
five  forms :  plain-twined,  diagonal-twined,  lattice-twined,  three- 
strand  twined,  and  three-strand  braided.  Of  these  twined  weaves 
the  first  three  are  in  common  use,  the  fourth  is  rarely  used  as  the 
weave  of  an  entire  basket,  and  the  fifth  is  very  rarely  so  used. 
The  lattice- twined  weave  seems  to  be  confined  entirely  to  the  Pomo 
and  adjacent  Indians  of  other  linguistic  stocks  but  of  similar  cul- 
ture. The  following  fact  concerning  manipulation  is  noteworthy :  As 
one  looks  at  the  outer  surface  of  the  bottom  of  a  basket,  coiling 
always  progresses  in  a  counterclockwise  direction,  twining  always 
in  a  clockwise  direction. 

In  form  also  a  very  great  diversity  is  shown,  there  being  all 
shapes  from  cylindrical,  through  globose  and  conical,  to  the  flat 


J  Read  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  Berkeley,  Cali- 
fornia, August  31. 

648 


BARRETT]         BASKET  DESIGNS   OF  7 HE  POMO  INDIANS  649 

plate-form.     To  these  should  be  added  a  special  form,  the  elliptical 
or  canoe-shaped,  which  it  would  seem  is  more  rarely  found  elsewhere. 

One  of  the  most  striking  features  of  Pomo  basketry,  and  the  one 
which  has  been  perhaps  the  most  noticed  by  collectors,  is  the  feather 
decoration,  which  finds  its  highest  development  with  the  Pomo. 
The  variously  colored  feathers  of  different  species  of  birds  may  be 
woven  into  the  basket  at  intervals,  thus  allowing  the  pattern  which 
is  worked  out  in  the  fiber  of  the  basket  to  show  among  them ;  or 
the  entire  surface  of  the  basket  may  be  so  thickly  covered  with 
feathers  as  to  entirely  hide  the  fiber  of  the  basket,  in  which  case 
some  simple  pattern  is  worked  out  by  the  use  of  differently  colored 
feathers.  Similar  to  feather  decoration  is  decoration  with  beads; 
but  both  may  be  regarded  as  only  auxiliary  ornamentation  and 
usually  secondary  to  the  patterns  which  are  produced  by  the  use  of 
fibers  of  different  colors.  Of  these  patterns  some  are  simple,  some 
complex  ;  but  all  are  composed  of  simple  design  elements,  each  with 
its  special  name. 

In  dealing  with  these  design  names  a  sharp  distinction  must  be 
made  between  the  design  element  as  a  simple  elemental  figure,  and 
the  pattern  as  a  whole,  the  complex  figure  composed  sometimes  of 
a  single  repeated  element,  but  as  often  of  two  or  more  elements  in 
combination.  In  the  three  Pomo  dialects  under  consideration  there 
have  been  found  in  all  twenty-nine  names  which  are  applied  to 
design  elements  and  may  therefore  be  called  elemental  names. 
Eighteen  of  these  are  names  of  animate  objects  or  parts  of  animate 
objects,  as  follows :  deer  hip  or  deer  back,  deer  teeth,  deer  elbow, 
ant,  striped  water-snake,  grasshopper  elbow,  turtle  neck,  quail 
plume,  bear  foot  or  track,  bat  wing,  man,  crow  foot  or  track,  goose 
excrement,  turtle  foot,  fish  rib,  crab  claw,  star-fish,  and  mosquito. 
Of  the  remaining  eleven,  three  are  plant  names  —  acorn  head  (cup), 
wild  **  potato"  forehead,  and  pine  tree;  and  four  are  names  of 
natural  or  artificial  objects  —  arrowhead,  string,  star  and  cross,  the 
last  having  its  origin  in  and  taking  its  name  from  the  cross  *  intro- 
duced by  Roman  Catholic  missionaries.     Three  are  names  of  more 

*  The  name  commonly  given  to  the  cross  by  the  Indians  is  karus,  evidently  derived 
from  the  Spanish  cmz.  The  design  itself  was  not  known  to  the  Indians  before  the  com- 
ing of  the  missionaries. 


6SO  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

or  less  geometric  figures  occurring  in  nature  —  spot  and  two  forms 
of  zigzag,  to  which  may  be  added  a  fourth,  the  finishing^  design. 

Some  of  the  design  elements  bearing  these  names  are  of  rare 
occurrence,  and  about  fourteen  constitute  the  bulk  of  the  designs  to 
be  found  in  any  ordinary  collection  of  Pomo  baskets.  Two  at  least 
of  the  elemental  names  given  are  used  only  by  the  people  speaking 
one  of  the  three  dialects,  different  names  being  applied  to  the  same 
design  elements  by  the  people  speaking  the  other  dialects. 

Some  examples  of  these  commonly  occurring  design  elements  are 
given  in  plate  xxxix,*  where  seven  of  the  most  frequently  occurring 
animal  designs  are  shown.  The  central  circle  in  figure  i  shows  the 
deer-hip  or  deer-back  design  ;  the  three  upper  bands  in  figure  2 
show  the  deer-teeth  design  ;  and  the  two  bands  of  very  small  square 
figures  in  figure  3,  and  also  the  lowest  band  in  figure  4,  show  the 
ant  design.  In  figure  3  also  the  four  dark  bands  running  around 
the  middle  of  the  basket  are  striped  water-snakes,  while  in  fig^ure  4 
the  two  bands  of  acute-angled  triangles,  the  triangles  in  each  band 
being  separated  by  a  white  zigzag,  show  the  design  called  g^rass- 
hopper  elbow.  The  large  figures  on  the  side  of  the  basket  shown 
in  figure  5  are  the  turtle-neck  design  ;  and  the  lowest  band  of  figure 
6  shows  the  quail-plume  design,  the  plumes  in  this  case  being  ar- 
ranged in  pairs  with  a  narrow  dark  line  separating  the  individual 
plumes. 

From  these  examples  it  will  be  evident  that,  although  design 
elements  are  given  names  of  special  signification,  as  of  animals 
birds,  and  so  on,  they  are  in  most  cases  not  realistic.  They  are  not 
intended  by  the  Indians  to  be  so ;  nor  on  the  other  hand  have  they 
any  religious  significance.  They  are  primarily  decorative  and  seem 
to  have  been  named  fi-om  some  real  or  fancied  likeness  to  the  objects 
bearing  the  same  names. 

These  designs  bearing  elemental  names  may  be  modified  in  size 
form,  and  otherwise,  and  these  modifications  are  not  only  recognized 
by  the  Indians,  but  qualifying  terms  indicative  of  them  are   used  in 

1  The  baskets  shown  in  figures  2,  3,  4,  and  6  of  plate  xxxix  and  figure  3  of  plate  XL 
are  in  the  collections  of  the  Museum  of  the  Department  of  Anthropology  of  the  University 
of  California.  Those  shown  in  figures  i  and  5  of  plate  xxxix  and  figures  i,  2  and 
4  of  plate  XL  form  part  of  a  collection  made  by  the  writer  and  now  the  property  of  the 
KSnigliches  Museum  fiir  Volkerkunde  of  Berlin. 


BASKETS,  SHOWINO   ANIMAL    DESIONS 


BARRETT]        BASKET  DESIGNS   OF  THE  POMO  INDIANS  651 

connection  with  the  elemental  names  to  form  the  complete  name  of 
the  design.  There  are  fourteen  such  qualifying  terms  used  exclu- 
sively in  connection  with  elemental  names  and  descriptive  of  form, 
size,  color,  and  direction.  These  are :  large,  small,  long,  short, 
crooked,  half,  sharp,  slender,  black,  white  (space,  naked),  inward, 
outward,  above  and  below.  Some  of  these  terms  are  equally  ap- 
plicable to  any  and  all  design  elements,  while  others  are  used  only 
in  connection  with  one  or  two ;  as,  inward,  outward,  above,  and 
below,  which  are  used  only  with  the  arrowhead  design. 

Plate  XL  shows  various  modifications  of  the  arrowhead.  Figure 
I,  showing  an  elaborate  spiral  pattern,  contains  three  forms  of  the 
arrowhead :  inward  arrowhead,  outward  arrowhead,  and  arrowhead 
sharp.  The  inward  arrowhead  is  the  triangular  figure  shown  on  the 
lower  or  left-hand  side  of  the  spiral.  In  weaving  the  basket  each 
successive  round  made  reduces  the  breadth  of  the  triangle  and  tends 
to  carry  its  outer  line  inward  toward  the  median  line  of  the  pattern ; 
hence  its  name  inward  arrowhead.  Opposite  this,  on  the  upper  or 
right-hand  side  of  the  spiral,  is  the  outward  arrowhead,  the  breadth 
of  which  widens  with  each  successive  round  in  weaving,  the  outer 
line  tending  outward  or  receding  from  the  median  line  of  the  pat- 
tern. The  arrowhead  sharp  is  shown  as  a  small  triangle  along  the 
outer  margins  of  both  the  inward  and  outward  arrowheads,  being 
separated  from  the  larger  triangles  by  narrow  white  lines.  The 
wide  elaborate  pattern  passing  around  the  middle  of  figure  2  shows 
the  above  arrowhead  and  the  below  arrowhead,  the  former  being 
the  large  triangle  pointing  downward  from  the  upper  edge  of  the 
pattern  and  the  latter  being  the  triangle  pointing  upward  from  the 
lower  edge  of  the  pattern.  The  derivation  of  these  terms  is  self 
evident.  The  large  plain  triangles  arranged  as  in  figure  3  are 
always  called  arrowhead  half.  The  long  tapering  points,  some  of 
which  project  downward  and  some  upward  in  figure  4,  are  called 
arrowhead  slender. 

A  design  element  may  occur  alone  or  in  repetition  as  a  pattern, 
in  either  of  which  cases  the  simple  elemental  name  with  appropriate 
qualifying  terms  is  given  as  the  name  of  the  pattern.  However, 
two  or  more  design  elements  may  be  combined  to  form  a  complex 
pattern,  thus  permitting  of  a  great  variety.     The  name  given  to  such 


I 

'     I 

r 


; 


I 


I 

:     I 
t 


652  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [N.  s.,  7,  1905 

a  combination  of  design  elements  is  not  that  of  one  of  the  elements, 
nor  is  an  entirely  new  name  invented  for  each  new  combination. 
The  term  used  is  not  so  much  a  name  as  a  descriptive  phrase  in 
which  the  principal  constituent  design  elements  are  mentioned  and 
their  relations  one  to  another  are  usually  given. 

Here  again  qualifying  terms  are  needed,  and  we  find  an  even 
greater  variety  of  such  qualifying  terms  than  are  used  with  the  sim- 
ple design  elements.  They  cover  all  phases  of  design  arrange- 
ment, direction,  relative  position,  number,  color,  and  quality.  Those 
most  commonly  used  are :  banded,  single  one  going  around  or  run- 
ning around,  two  going  around  or  running  around,  vertical  or 
straight  up,  spiral  or  slanting,  crossing,  scattered,  placed  anywhere, 
edge  or  border,  middle  or  in  the  middle,  on  both  sides,  and  or  with, 
single  or  one,  double  or  two,  spotted,  and  bad.  Thus  the  broad 
band  about  the  middle  of  the  basket  shown  in  figure  6,  plate  xxxix, 
is  called,  by  the  people  speaking  one  dialect,  wild  **  potato  "  fore- 
head zigzag  on  both  sides  arrowhead,  while  the  lowest  band  of 
design  in  the  same  figure  is  called  quail-plumes  in  the  middle  run- 
ning striped  water-snake.  Also  in  plate  xl,  figure  4,  the  entire  pat- 
tern which  extends  spirally  from  the  bottom  to  the  top  of  the 
basket  is  called  design  arrowhead  in  the  middle  zigzag,  and  the 
pattern  of  figure  i  is  called  design  sharp  points  in  the  middle  arrow- 
heads on  both  sides. 

A  similar,  though^  much  more  limited,  use  of  qualifying  and 
descriptive  terms  seems  to  occur  among  the  Yurok  and  Karok,  and 
perhaps  other  Indians  of  northwestern  California,  where  common 
design  names  modified  by  terms  signifying  form,  size,  design  ar- 
rangement, and  position  are  occasionally  found.^ 

Borrowing  of  designs  or  of  names  seems  almost  totally  lacking 
among  the  Pomo,  and  invention  of  designs,  as  also  of  weaves  and 
forms,  is  quite  unknown.  There  are,  it  is  true,  certain  patterns 
which  have  been  recently  introduced,  but  these  can  hardly  be  said 
to  be  due  to  invention.  Informants  maintain  that  they  are  copied 
from  patterns  on  articles  manufactured  by  whites.  Furthermore 
these  patterns  are  not  given  the  names  of  any  of  the  standard  old 

*  Dr  A.  L.  Kroeber,  Basket  Desii^ns  of  the  Indians  of  Northwestern  California , 
Univ.  Calif.  Publ.,  Amer.  Archeol.  and  Ethnol.  ii,  127,  133,  141,  1905. 


■ 

BARRETT]         BASKET  DESIGNS   OF  THE  POMO  INDIANS  653 

designs,  nor  are  new  names  invented  for  them ;  they  are  simply 
called  "  new  style/'  '*  new  fashioned,"  or  **  no  name."  However,  this 
class  constitutes  such  a  small  percentage  of  the  patterns  to  be  found 
in  any  Pomo  collection  that  it  is  practically  negligible.  Compara- 
tively all,  then,  of  the  patterns  found  among  the  Pomo  are  composed 
of  standard  old  design  elements  and  are  given  the  same  names  and 
interpretations  by  all  informants ;  due  allowance,  of  course,  being 
made  for  the  differences  due  to  the  dialect  spoken.  A  nearly  total 
lack  of  individuality  of  interpretation  by  different  informants  is  thus 
shown  in  connection  with  elemental  names,  although  there  is  a  lim- 
ited amount  of  individuality  in  the  use  of  qualifying  terms. 

The  total  known  number  of  Pomo  design  names  somewhat  ex- 
ceeds the  numbers  so  far  found  among  some  other  peoples  :  as  the 
Hupa  who  have  nineteen,  and  the  Karok  who  have  fourteen  ;  *  but 
on  the  other  hand  is  much  smaller  than  the  number  found  among 
the  Maidu,  who  have  more  than  forty.*  However,  notwithstanding 
this  seemingly  comparatively  small  number  of  elemental  names, 
the  Pomo  probably  possess  as  great  a  number  as  any  other  Indians 
occupying  a  like  area,  and  they  are  certainly  able,  by  the  use  of 
their  many  and  varied  qualifying  terms,  to  adequately  differentiate 
the  most  complex  patterns  one  from  another,  and  further,  these 
combinations  of  elemental  names  and  qualifying  terms  produce  pat- 
tern names  which  are  so  descriptive  that  it  is  possible  for  one  ac- 
quainted with  the  subject  to  form,  to  a  certain  extent,  a  mental 
picture  of  the  pattern  from  its  name. 

University  of  Caufornia, 
Berkeley. 


»  Dr  A.  L.  Krocber,  op.  dt.,  p.  154.  It  seems  very  probable,  however,  that  both 
the  Hupa  and  the  Karok  will  ultimately  be  found  to  have  fully  as  many  design  names  as 
the  Yurok,  who  are  of  the  same  general  culture,  and  who  have  more  than  thirty  such 
names,  though  only  about  half  of  these  are  in  common  use,  the  others  occurring  quite 
rarely. 

*  Dr  R.  B.  Dixon,  Basketry  Designs  of  the  Indians  of  Northern  California^  Bull. 
Am.  Mus.  Nat.  Hist.,  xvii,  pt.  I,  23,  1902.  The  Maidu,  however,  occupy  a  much 
larger  territory  than  the  Hupa,  the  Karok,  or  the  people  of  the  three  Pomo  dialects  in 
question,  and  should,  therefore,  be  expected  to  possess  a  greater  variety  of  design  names 
than  any  one  of  these. 


A    NEW    METHOD    OF   PRESERVING   SPECIMENS    OF 
SHELL  AND   OTHER   PERISHABLE   MATERIALS » 

By  PHILIP  MILLS  JONES 

While  conducting  some  archeological  researches  for  Mrs  Phoebe 
A.  Hearst,  in  behalf  of  the  Universty  of  California,  I  visited  Santa 
Rosa  island  off  the  coast  of  California  at  the  vicinity  of  Santa  Bar- 
bara, during  the  early  months  of  1901.     Here  the  conditions  of  cli- 
mate and  food  supply  were  particularly  favorable  to  the  struggle 
for  existence,  and  the  existing  remains  indicate  not  only  a  ^rly 
large  aboriginal  population,  but  also  a  rather  unusual  dexterity  in 
the  fashioning  of  articles  of  adornment.     A  considerable  variety  of 
shell-fish  furnished  the  raw  material,  but  while  some  fifty  varieties 
have  been  noted,  the  great  majority  of  decorative  objects  were  made 
from  the  shells  of  the  very  abundant  abalone,  or  Hcdiotis  refusens. 
The  village  sites  and  graveyards  of  Santa  Rosa  island  were  particu- 
larly rich  in  this  shell  material,  and  much  of  it  exhibits  a  high  de- 
gree of  skill  in  shaping  as  well  as  in  ornamentation. 

Every  collector  has  doubtless  experienced  the  very  disagreeable 
sensation  of  procuring  some  particularly  prized  shell  specimens  from 
a  moist  soil,  only  to  see  them  disintegrate  with  the  passage  of  time 
and  the  loss  of  the  contained  moisture.  The  long  retention  of  the 
specimens  in  more  or  less  wet  soil  results  in  the  removal  of  prac- 
tically all  the  cementing  material  that  normally  holds  together  the 
lamellae  of  calcareous  matter.  As  a  result  of  this  dehydration,  when 
the  specimens  become  dry  the  slightest  touch  brushes  away  particles, 
and  even  when  untouched  and  in  a  glass  case  they  not  infrequently 
drop  apart  and  eventually  leave  only  a  small  heap  of  powder. 

To  counteract  this  effect  two  requirements  are  to  be  met  by  the 
collector  :  immediate  preservation  for  transportation  to  the  museum, 
and  the  permanent  fixation  at  some  subsequent  time.  The  first  of 
these  I  found  well  satisfied  by  allowing  the  specimens  to  remain,  until 

^  Read  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  San  Francisco, 
August  30. 

654 


JONES]  PRESERVING  PERISHABLE  MATERIALS  655 

nearly  dry,  in  some  of  the  soil  in  which  they  had  been  buried,  and  then 
packing  them  in  plenty  of  cotton  in  comparatively  small  boxes,  always 
refraining  from  unnecessary  manipulation  or  attempts  at  cleaning. 

To  permanently  preserve  the  objects,  however,  is  a  far  more  dif- 
ficult matter.  Two  methods  have  previously  been  recommended, 
and,  presumably,  exclusively  employed.  Shellac  has  had  rather 
the  larger  number  of  supporters,  but  it  is  not  effectual,  as  it  fur- 
nishes merely  an  outside  skin  and  does  not  materially  strengthen 
very  weak  specimens ;  moreover,  it  gives  the  specimen  a  glossy  and 
refractive  surface  which  imparts  an  unnatural  appearance.  Boiling 
in  oil  has  been  used  by  some,  but  this  is  out  of  the  question  when 
fragile  specimens  are  to  be  preserved,  and  it  has  the  disadvantage  of 
the  shellac  in  that  it  gives  the  shell  an  unnatural  appearance. 

On  studying  the  problem  it  seemed  evident  that  as  an  animal 
cementing  substance  had  been  removed  from  the  entire  mass  of  the 
shell,  it  should  be  replaced  by  a  substance  of  similar  character  if  the 
restoration  of  the  specimen  is  to  be  effected.  The  following  method 
was  therefore  devised,  and  by  it  several  thousands  of  specimens  were 
successfully  treated.  After  two  years  the  objects  are  as  sound  and 
strong  as  when  first  treated,  and  have  all  the  appearance  of  perfectly 
natural  shell. 

A  solution  of  clear  gelatin,  such  as  is  used  for  bacteriologic 
cultures,  of  about  three  percent  to  four  percent  strength,  is  kept 
fluid  over  a  sand  bath  and  Bunsen  burner.  Into  this  the  specimens 
are  placed  and  allowed  to  remain-  until  about  one  minute  after  all 
bubbles  of  air  have  ceased.  While  in  the  gelatin  the  specimens 
may  be  thoroughly  cleaned  with  a  camel's  hair  brush.  They  are 
then  removed  and  placed  in  a  vessel  containing  ordinary  commer- 
cial formalin  solution,  or  formaldehyde,  where  they  are  allowed  to 
remain  for  a  few  moments,  or  at  the  convenience  of  the  operator, 
and  are  then  removed,  drained,  and  allowed  to  dry  slowly. 

In  this  process  the  cementing  material  is  furnished  by  the  gela- 
tin, and  the  formalin  acts  upon  the  gelatin,  making  "  formalin-gel- 
atin,'* an  insoluble  substance.  Thus  the  shell  is  impregnated  with 
an  animal  cementing  material  and  at  the  same  time  protected  by  an 
absolutely  insoluble  coating. 

San  Francisco, 
California. 


SKETCH    OF   THE  GRAMMAR  OF  THE   LUISENO 

LANGUAGE  OF   CALIFORNIA* 

By  p.  S.  SPARKMAN 

The  Luisefio  Indians  are  of  Shoshonean  origin  and  are  the  most 
southwesterly  tribe  of  that  linguistic  family  in  the  United  States. 
They  number  some  800  or  900  individuals,  about  two-thirds  of 
whom  live  in  the  basin  of  San  Luis  Rey  river,  southern  California. 

There  are  no  articles  in  the  Luisefio  language ;  instead  of  '  a 
.  .  .  *  or  *the  man  is  coming,*  one  says,  'man  is  coming/  or, 
occasionally,  'one  man  is  coming/  Nor  are  there  true  compara- 
tives; one  cannot  say  'this  is  good,*'  'that  is  better,'  'that  is 
best,'  but  'this  is  a  little  good,*  'that  is  good,*  'that  is  very 
good.*  There  are  also  certain  roundabout  methods  of  expressing 
comparison. 

With  few  exceptions  no  distinction  is  made  between  masculine 
and  feminine  gender,  but  a  clear  distinction  is  made  between  the 
gender  of  animate  and  inanimate  objects. 

Generic  names  are  the  exception.  As  a  rule  there  are  names 
for  each  species,  but  none  for  the  genus ;  yet  to  this  rule  there  are 
not  a  few  exceptions. 

Incorporation,  generally  considered  to  be  one  of  the  most  char- 
acteristic features  of  Indian  languages,  exists  to  a  very  limited  extent 
in  Luisefio ;  and  complete  incorporation,  in  which  the  subject,  verb, 
and  object  are  formed  into  a  single  word,  is  wholly  lacking.  With 
some  reservation  Luiseno  may  be  considered  a  semi-incorporative 
language. 

In  writing  the  language  we  have  spoken  of  the  changes  that 
take  place  in  the  termination  of  words  to  express  their  changes  of 
meaning  as  case-inflection.  Our  reason  for  regarding  these  changes 
as  case-endings  is  that  they  are  affixed  to  the  word  root  or  stem, 

*  Read  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  San  Francisco, 
August  30. 

656 


SPARKMAN]  GRAMMAR   OF  LUISEf^O  LANGUAGE  657 

and  not  to  its  nominative  case,  hence  they  appear  to  be  as  truly 
case-endings  as  are  similar  changes  in  Latin.  Personal  pronouns 
have  no  fewer  than  twelve  such  case-endings ;  but  no  noun  has 
more  than  eight ;  many  of  them  have  only  five,  and  the  names  of 
the  cardinal  points  but  three. 

There  are  but  five  numerals  in  Luiseno,  higher  amounts  being 
counted  chiefly  by  means  of  the  fingers  and  toes.  '  All  my  hand 
finished,*  meaning,  of  course,  all  the  fingers  of  both  hands,  would 
signify  ten  ;  '  all  my  hand  finished,  and  one  my  foot,*  is  fifteen  ;  *  all 
my  hand  my  foot  finished,*  twenty ;  '  five  times  all  my  hand  my  foot 
finished,*  one  hundred.  There  is  no  abstract  word  for  any  number 
exceeding  five. 

Plurals  are  somewhat  irregular,  but  they  are  oftener  formed  by 
the  addition  of  -um  than  in  any  other  manner.  In  the  inanimate 
gender  it  is  not  customary  to  use  the  plural  except  when  necessary, 
the  fact  that  a  numeral,  an  adjective  denoting  plurality,  a  plural 
verb,  or  a  plural  demonstrative  pronoun  occurs  in  the  sentence 
making  the  plurality  of  the  noun  understood.  In  the  animate  gen- 
der, however,  plural  nouns,  as  well  as  the  numerals,  adjectives,  and 
demonstrative  or  possessive  pronouns  that  may  accompany  them, 
are  all  inflected  to  indicate  the  plural. 

Nouns  are  either  primitive  or  derivative.  There  is  no  known 
compound  noun  in  the  language.  Of  the  derived  nouns  nearly  all 
are  of  verbal  derivation  ;  the  exceptional  few  are  derived  from  other 
nouns.  Many  nouns  have  no  absolute  form  at  all,  and  can  be  em- 
ployed only  with  a  conjunctive  possessive  pronoun  prefixed  to  them. 
Among  this  class  of  nouns  are  those  that  denote  terms  of  relation- 
ship, so  that  one  cannot  say  simply  'father'  or  'mother,'  but 
'  my  father,*  *  our  mother,*  etc.  The  names  of  most  parts  of  the 
body  also  have  no  absolute  form ;  and  there  are  also  many  other 
nouns  that  have  only  the  possessive  form. 

In  Luiseiio,  pronouns  are  independent  words,  but  in  some  tenses 
of  the  subjunctive  mode  and  in  certain  verb-forms  their  roots  are 
prefixed  to  the  verb  in  the  same  manner  as  they  are  prefixed  to 
nouns  of  the  inanimate  gender  and  to  relationship  terms  to  indicate 
their  possessive  form.  An  objective  pronoun  is  never  incorporated 
with  a  verb. 


658  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Luiseno  possessive  pronouns  differ  according  to  gender.  In  the 
animate  gender  the  absolute  and  conjunctive  are  the  same :  "  my 
and  mine,"  **  thy  and  thine,"  would  be  the  same  in  this  gender,  with 
the  exception  of  terms  of  relationship.  But  in  the  inanimate  the 
absolute  and  conjunctive  differ,  the  latter  being  always  attached  to 
the  noun  :  **  my  hat "  would  therefore  be  one  word.  And  when  a 
possessive  pronoun  is  prefixed  to  a  noun  in  this  manner,  the  noun- 
ending  invariably  changes,  generally  being  shortened,  but  sometimes 
lengthened  :  yilm'-pish,  '  hat,'  would  therefore  be,  no-yUm'^py^  *  my 
hat.'  Such  shortening  of  a  noun  when  a  possessive  pronoun  is  pre- 
fixed to  it  seems  to  be  rare  in  Indian  languages  generally,  although 
it  is  characteristic  of  Nahuad. 

There  are  a  great  many  adjectives  in  Luiseno,  and  they  usually 
follow  the  words  that  they  qualify,  though  in  some  forms  of  speech 
they  may  be  placed  before  or  after  the  noun  at  will.  Some  adjec- 
tives may  be  conjugated  as  verbs  (as,  '  I  was  thirsty  *)  by  using  an 
adjective  and  an  auxiliary  verb  as  in  English  ;  or  the  same  idea  may 
be  expressed  by  conjugating  the  adjective  without  using  the  auxiliary 
verb  at  all.  With  one  exception  adjectives  are  declined  for  case  in 
the  way  that  nouns  are,  and  they  agree  with  the  nouns  that  they 
qualify  in  gender,  and  usually  in  number  and  case. 

As  in  all  Indian  languages,  the  verbs  in  Luiseno  are  greatly 
complicated.  They  have  a  number  of  modes  with  no  counterpart 
whatever  in  English  or  cognate  languages ;  they  may  also  have 
several  different  conjugations  formed  from  the  same  root,  each  with 
its  modes  the  same  as  the  principal  verb,  that  is,  its  simplest  form. 

The  verbal  root  itself  generally  remains  unchanged,  and  the  cor- 
responding tenses  of  the  different  modes  and  conjugations  formed 
from  the  same  root  usually,  though  by  no  means  always,  have  the 
same  inflection,  the  changes  being  made  by  means  of  infixes.  Hence 
a  Luiseno  tense  consists  usually  of  three  parts,  viz.,  the  verbal  root, 
the  infix,  and  the  inflection  proper. 

The  change  of  a  verb  from  the  transitive  is  also  effected  by  an 
internal  change  in  the  verb,  not  by  inflection. 

In  the  conjugation  of  verbs  there  is  no  instance  of  the  three  per- 
sons singular  differing  from  each  other,  nor  an  instance  of  the  three 
persons  plural  differing  ;  and  in  most  of  the  tenses  all  six  persons  are 
alike. 


SPARKMAN]  GRAMMAR   OF  LUISEStO  LANGUAGE  659 

In  what  corresponds  to  the  indicative  mode  in  English  there  are 
no  fewer  than  eleven  tenses  in  Luisefio,  several  of  which  denote  dif- 
ferent degrees  of  remoteness  of  past  time. 

Many  verbs  differ  for  number,  having  both  a  singular  and  a 
plural  form ;  some  have  several  plural  forms,  while  others  have  forms 
denoting  different  degrees  of  intensity.  Some  verbs  also  differ  for 
gender,  but  this  is  not  usual.  Many  verbs  contain  the  object  within 
themselves,  being  at  once  predicate  and  object,  like  the  Spanish 
verb  leflar^  *  to  get  wood.' 

Most  Indian  languages  are  said  to  have  no  verb  '  to  be,*  but 
in  Luisefio  there  are  several,  though  none  has  the  exact  meaning  of 
the  English  ;  they  are  more  nearly  equivalent  to  the  Spanish  verb 
habety  *to  have,'  when  used  to  express  'there  to  be. *,^  They  have 
also  a  partly  adverbial  meaning.  One  cannot  use  such  verbs  to 
say  *  he  is,'  *  he  was,'  *  he  will  be,'  but  they  may  be  used  to  express 
'  he  is  ill,'  '  he  was  drunk,'  '  he  will  be  thirsty.'  In  the  sentences 
*  is  there  thy  grain  ?'  (meaning  *  have  you  grain  ?'),  '  there  is  my 
grain,'  is  there  and  there  is  would  be  expressed  by  a  verb  to  be, 
'  Was  he  there  '  and  '  he  was  there '  would  also  be  expressed  by  a 
verb  to  be,  only  in  these  sentences  the  adverb  '  there '  may  be  used 
or  not,  at  will.  While  the  verb  which  would  be  employed  in  the 
last  two  sentences  usually  means  '  to  be  .  .  .'  or  *  to  live  in  a 
place,'  it  may  also  mean  simply  *  to  be  '  or  '  to  exist.*  '  I  am  going 
to  live  (be)  many  years,'  would  be  expressed  by  this  verb.  ; 

Verbs  '  to  be  '  are  used  also  to  form  the  passive  voice,  as  well  as 
the  periphrastic  conjugation  of  both  it  and  the  active  voice,  in  such 
sentences  as  '  I  was  paid,'  '  I  was  going  to  be  paid,'  *  I  was  going  to 
pay.'  In  all  such  sentences  the  verb  *  to  be  '  would  be  placed  last, 
and  the  sentences  expressed  as  '  I  paid  was,'  '  I  paid  going  to  be 
was,'  *  I  going  to  pay  was.' 

In  Luisefio  a  very  important  part  is  played  by  what  we  have 
termed  article-pronouns  — a  class  of  suffixes  that  are  oflener  affixed 
to  pronouns  than  to  any  other  part  of  speech.  Though  often  they 
may  be  affixed  to  any  word  of  a  sentence,  they  are  used  to  denote 
meanings  that  in  English  and  cognate  languages  are  either  left  to 
be  understood  or  are  expressed  by  circumlocutory  methods.  Inter- 
rogation, quotation,  doubt,  certainty,  and  many  other  things  are 

AM.  ANTHR.,  N.  S.,  7-44 


66o  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n-  s.,  7,  1905 

expressed  in  Luisefio  by  affixing  an  article-pronoun  to  a  word  (usu- 
ally the  first)  of  a  sentence,  without  changing  the  rest  of  the  sentence 
to  express  the  different  meanings.  As  they  differ  for  tense,  as  well 
as  for  person  and  number,  personal  pronouns  are  often  dropped  and 
article-pronouns  affixed  to  a  word  of  the  sentence.  Article-pro- 
nouns may  be  taken  by  any  part  of  speech,  and  their  use  often 
renders  the  employment  of  personal  pronouns  unnecessary.  Some 
article-pronouns  are  easy  to  understand,  while  others  are  not.  They 
scarcely  admit  of  English  translation  and  may  be  regarded  as  the 
most  difficult  feature  of  Luisefio  granunar.     Some  examples  follow : 

EXAMPLES   or  ARTICLE   PRONOUNS 

I.  Manuel  is"going  to  build  a  house,  Manuel-up  ki'-cho-lut,  (^kish^^ 

3.  Perhaps    Manuel     is    going    to  Manuel'Sho-po  k^-cho-lut. 
build  a  house. 

3.  Is  Manuel  going  to  build  a  house  ?  Manuel-sho  k^-cho-lut  t 

4.  And  is  Manuel  going  to  build  a  Manuel-shun  ki'-cho-iut  t 

house? 

5.  So  Manuel  is  going  to  build  a     Manuel-shil  ki' -cha-lut, 

house. 

6.  It  is  said  Manuel  is  going  to  build     Manuel-kun  ki^-cho'lut, 

a  house. 

7.  Is  it  said  Manuel  is  going  to  build     Manuei-sho-kun  k^-cho-lut  t 

a  house? 

8.  And  perhaps  Manuel  is  going  to     Manuel-shun-po  ki'-cho-Iut, 

build  a  house. 

The  above  sentences  do  not  differ  except  in  the  article-pronouns 
that  are  affixed  to  the  noun  Manuel,  yet  each  sentence  has  a  dif- 
ferent meaning,  though  in  some  of  them  the  difference  in  the  mean- 
ing is  slight. 

Sentence  i  makes  a  positive  statement,  something  the  speaker 
certainly  knows.  Sentence  2  expresses  doubt :  perhaps,  possibly. 
Sentence  3  asks  a  direct  question.  The  fourth  sentence  is  also  in- 
terrogative. Sentence  5  is  semi-interrogative.  Sentence  6  is  quo- 
tative,  something  that  one  has  heard  stated.  Sentence  7  is  quota- 
tive-interrogative  :  one  person  asks  another  if  he  has  heard  something 
stated.     The  eighth  sentence  is,  we  think,  fairly  well  translated. 


sparkman] 


GRAMMAR   OF  LUISES^O   LANGUAGE 


66 1 


An  article  pronoun  may  be  affixed  to  the  verb  instead  of  to  the 
noun.  One  may  say  K^ -cho-lut-up  Manuel^  instead  of  Manuel-up 
ki' 'c/io-lut,  and  so  on. 

K?sh,  the  objective  of  ki'-cha^  'house,*  may  be  used  after  the 
verb  in  any  of  the  sentences  given  above ;  but  this  is  not  necessary, 
as  the  verb  contains  the  object  within  itself. 

Declension  of  hu'-la,  'an  arrow,*  or  'the  arrow* 


Absolute  fonn 

• 

Possessive  form. 

Nominative, 

hu'-ia. 

'hU, 

Objective, 

huL 

'hu'-y. 

Accusative, 

huyk. 

'hUyfe. 

Ablative, 

hUng-y, 

'hOng'-y, 

Instrumental, 

h&'-tuL 

-hi^'tuL 

Locative, 

hung^-a. 

'hung'-a. 

Genitive, 

hung' -a-wish. 

-hung'  -a-wish. 

Conjunctive, 

hu'-tnan. 

Plural. 

'hf^-man. 

Nominative, 

hW'lum 

'hum. 

Objective, 

hQl'-my, 

'hii^-my. 

Genitive, 

hung'-a-wich 

'Um. 

'hUng*  -a-wich-um 

The  other  cases  do  not  differ  for  the  plural.  The  hyphen  (-) 
indicates  the  possessive  pronoun  of  whichever  person  might  be  pre- 
fixed to  the  noun.  Thus,  no-hu'  '  my  arrow,'  o-ku'  '  thy  arrow,' 
pO'ltU'  '  his  arrow,'  chdm-hu'  '  our  arrow,'  om-hu'  '  your  arrow,* 
pont-hu'  *  their  arrow.' 

Ku' 'ta-pish,  '  a  bow,'  or  '  the  bow ' 


Absolute  form. 


Nominative, 

Objective, 

Accusative, 

Ablative, 

Instrumental, 

Locative, 

Genitive, 

Conjunctive, 


ku'-ta-pish, 
ku'-ia-pish, 
ku'-ta-pik, 
ka^'ta-ping-y, 
ku' 'ta-pich-uL 
kU'  'ia-ping-a. 
ku'  -  ta  -ping-a-wish . 
ku' 'ia-py-man. 


Possessive  form. 
-ku'-ta-py, 
-ku'-ia-py, 
-ku'-ta-pik. 
'ku'-ia-ping-y, 
'ku'  -ia-py-tuL 
'ku'-ta-ping-a, 
'ku' -ta-ping-a'Wish. 
'ku' 'ta-py'man. 


662 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


■ 

I 


I 


Nominative, 

Objective, 
Genitive, 


Plural. 

ku* 'ta-pich-umy  or 

ku* 'tap-chum, 
ku^'ta'Pish-my. 
ka^  'ta'Ping-a-wich'Um. 


'ki^'ta-jptm. 

'ku'-ta-jpy-my, 
'kuf'ta-ptng-a'ttnch-um. 


As  usual,  the  other  cases  do  not  differ  for  the  plural.  As  often 
happens,  the  objective  case  of  this  noun  does  not  differ  from  the 
nominative  in  the  singular,  in  either  the  absolute  or  the  possessive 
form. 


Valley  Center, 
Caufornia. 


THE   SOCIAL  ORGANIZATION   OF  AMERICAN 

TRIBES' 

By  JOHN  R.  SVVANTON 

The  majority  of  works  published  during  the  last  thirty  years 
that  attempt  to  deal  with  the  social  organization  of  "primitive 
people  **  have  been  dominated  by  the  totemic  clan  theory,  i.  e.,  the 
theory  that  in  the  earliest  period  of  their  development  all  tribes 
consisted  of  certain  divisions  or  clans  which  practically  took  the 
place  of  families,  and  the  members  of  each  of  which  were  compelled 
to  marry  into  some  other.  This  theory  furthermore  supposes  that 
the  offspring  of  such  marriages  always  belonged  to  the  clan  of  the 
mother,  and  that  where  we  find  the  reverse  condition  it  is  a  later 
development.  An  important  adjunct  of  the  clan  is  the  totem  —  an 
animal,  plant,  or  other  object  from  which  each  clan  derived  its  name 
and  many  of  the  members  their  personal  names,  and  to  which  the 
members  were  supposed  to  stand  in  some  mystic  relation  indicated 
usually  by  prohibitions  or  tabus. 

It  has  been  especially  advocated  by  students  who  hold  that  the 
monogamous  family  was  not  a  primitive  institution  but  has  been 
evolved  from  a  stage  in  which  sexual  relations  were  more  or  less 
promiscuous,  the  line  of  ascent  leading  through  stages  in  which  a 
group  of  men  were  married  to  a  group  of  women  (group  mar- 
riage), in  which  one  woman  was  married  to  several  men  (polyandry), 
in  which  one  man  was  married  to  several  women  (polygamy),  in 
which  one  man  and  one  woman  paired  for  a  certain  period  (the  pair- 
ing family),  until  finally  the  true  monogamous  family  was  reached. 
But  although  this  theory  of  marriage  has  been  very  successfully 
assailed  by  Westermarck  ^  and  later  writers,  the  totemic  clan  theory 
itself  has  effected  such  a  lodgment  in  popular  favor  that  it  is  now 


1  Presented  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  Berkeley, 
California,  August  31. 

*  Westermarck,  History  of  Human  Marria^^e^  1 89 1. 

663 


664  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  fN.  s.,  7,  1905 

referred  to  casually  as  to  one  of  the  well-established   principles  of 
modem  science.     Constantly  there  are  let  fall  such  expressions  as 
"  traces  of  maternal  descent/'  "  relics  of  a  previous  maternal  state 
of  society,"  **  customs  showing  the  change  from  a  maternal  to  a  pa- 
ternal condition/'  as  if  nothing  were  better  recognized. 

In  the  present  paper  I  shall  endeavor  to  determine  how  far  the 
organization  of  American  tribes  north  of  Mexico,  so  far  as  we  know 
it,  bears  out  this  theory,  not  pretending  to  pass  final  judgment  on 
it  as  a  whole.     I  am  especially  moved  to  this  by  the  fact  that  the 
theory  is  thought  to  have  been  confirmed  through  material  brought 
from  this  very  quarter  by  an  American  ethnologist,  Lewis  H.  Mor- 
gan,* and  all  the  more  that  no  specific  objection  to  his  conclusions 
has  appeared  in  print.     The  material  for  such  a  paper  is  so  readily 
available,  however,  that  no  special  credit  is  involved  in   merely  as- 
sembling it.     It  should  be  said  in  the  first  place,  with  reference  to 
Mr  Morgan's  work,  that  data  were  so  much  more  scanty  in  his 
time,  especially  from  that  very  region  which  confirms  the  clan  theory 
least,  that  his  conclusions  are  not  altogether  surprising.      Had  he 
begun  by  studying  western  instead  of  eastern  tribes  they   might 
have  been  different. 

While  seemingly  simple,  the  question  of  the  truth  or  falsity  of 
the  hypothesis  under  consideration  is  found  to  contain  several  sub- 
ordinate questions,  all  of  which  need  not  be  answered  in  the  same 
way.  Thus  we  can  conceive  of  descent  as  reckoned  through  the 
mother  without  the  existence  of  clans,  of  a  clan  system  in  which 
the  clans  are  without  totems,  and  of  one  in  which,  while  totems 
exist,  there  arc  no  special  tabus,  names,  or  rites  accompanying 
them. 

Conforming  in  some  measure  to  the  type  of  organization  assumed 
in  the  maternal  clan  theory  are  the  five  tribes  of  the  Iroquois  con- 
federacy," the  Tuscarora,-  Wyandot,^  Cherokee,  *  Delaware,*  Mohe- 


*  Morgan,  Ancient  Society^  187S. 

*  Morgan,  League  of  the  Iroquois^  1S78. 

3  Powell  in  First  Rep,  Bur.  Kthnol.^  pp.  59-69. 
*Mooney  in  Nineteenth  Rep.  Bur.  Am.  Ethnol.y  p.  212. 

*  Morgan,  Ancient  SocietVy  p.  171  ;  Brinton,    IVie  Lenape  and  their  Legeftdsy  pp. 
36-40. 


SWANTON]  SOCIAL    ORGANIZATION  OF  AMERICAN  TRIBES  66$ 

gan/  Tutelo,*  the  Muskhogean  tribes  so  far  as  known,'  Timucua/ 
Yuchi,*  Natchez,*  Biloxi,^  tribes  of  the  Caddoan  confederacy,®  the 
Pueblos,*  Navaho,'^  Apache,^^  Haida,"  Tlingit,"  Tsimshian,'^  Heil- 
tsuk,^2  Takulli,"  Tahltan,**  Knaiakhotana,^*  and  KutchinJ*' 

This  number  would  probably  be  considerably  increased  if  we 
had  accurate  information  concerning  many  tribes  which  are  now 
extinct.  Thus  it  is  a  fair  inference  that  the  remaining  Iroquoian 
tribes  —  the  Erie,  Neutral  Nation,  Susquehannock,  and  Nottoway 
—  were  organized  like  those  that  are  known  to  us,  and  that  the 
remaining  eastern  Siouan  tribes  were  organized  like  the  Tutelo. 
Our  knowledge  of  the  latter  depends  mainly  on  the  statements  of 
two  or  three  survivors  of  the  Tutelo  interviewed  by  Hale  and  Dorsey, 
after  the  remnant  of  their  tribe  had  been  living  for  years  with  the 
Iroquois,  whose  strong  clan  system  is  well  known.  The  main  fact, 
however,  is  confirmed  by  Lederer  in  the  following  words  : 

**  From  four  women,  viz.,  Pash,  Sepoy,  Askarin  and  Maraskarin,  they 
derive  the  race  of  mankind,  which  they,  therefore,  divide  into  four  tribes, 


1  Morgan,  Ancient  Society ^  p.  173. 

*  Dorsey  in  Fifteenth  Rep.  Bur,  Am,  EthnoL,  p.  244. 

*  Morgan,  Ancient  Society^  pp.  160-163;  Gatschet,  Creek  Migration  Legend^  I,  1884, 

pp.  153.  156. 

*  Gatschet  in  Proc.  Am,  Philosophical  Soc,  XVII,  no.  lOi,  p.  490. 

s  Gatschet,  notes. 

*  Du  Pratz,  Histoire  de  la  Louisiane,  II,  pp.  393-405. 
'Dorsey  in  Fifteenth  Rep.  Bur,  Am,  Ethnol.^  p.  243. 
*Mooney  in  Fourteenth  Rep,  Bur,  Am,  Ethnol,,  p.  1093. 

•Morgan,  Ancient  Society ^  pp.  178-180 ;  Fewkes  in  Nineteenth  Rep.  Bur,  Am. 
EthnoL;  Matilda  Coxe  Stevenson  in  Eleventh  and  Twenty-third  Reps.  Bur,  Am,  Ethnol, 

^^  Matthews,  Navaho  Legends^  pp.  29-33. 

"  Bourke  in  Jour.  Am,  Folk-lore^  III,  pp.  1 1 1-126.  Hrdlicka,  however,  it  should  be 
noted,  denies  that  the  San  Carlos  Apache  have  clans.  See  Am,  Anthropologist^  vii,  no. 
3,  p.  481. 

"Boas  in  Fifth,  Tenth,  and  Twelfth  Reports  on  N  W,  Tribes  of  Can,  for  B, 
A,  A,  5.,  1889,  1895,  *nd  1898  ;  Boas  in  Rep.  U,  S,  Nat,  Mus.  for  iSgSy  pp.  322,  323. 

'•  Morice  in  Trans,  Can.  Inst,  for  i8g2-gj,  p.  203  ;  Proc.  Can,  Inst,  for  1888- 
8g,  pp.  118,  119. 

»*Callbreath  in  Ann,  Rep,  Geol,  and  Nat:  Surv.  Can.,  n.  s..  Ill,  pt.  I,  19SB;  also 
Morice,  op.  cit. 

J s  Richardson,  Arctic  Searching  Exped.,  1 85 1,  p.  406  ;  quoted  by  Bourke  xn  Jour, 
Am.  Folk-lore,  III,  p.  122,  1 890. 

i^Hardesty  in  Ann.  Rep.  Smithsonian  Inst,  fir  1866,  p.  315  ;  Petitot,  Traditions 
Indiennes  du  Canada  Nord-ouest,  1886,  pp.  14,  15. 


666  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

distinguished  under  those  several  names.     They  very  religiously  observe 

the  degrees  of  marriage,  which  they  limit  not  to  distance  of  kindred,  but 

difference  of  tribe,  which  are  continued  in  the  issue  of  the  females :   now 

ill  for  two  of  the  same  tribe  to  match,  is  abhorred  as  incest  and  punished 

with  great  severity. ' '  * 

At  the  same  time  it  would  seem  as  if  totems  were  wanting. 

On  the  authority  of  a  Narraganset  woman  living  in  Kansas  and 
the  supposed  relationship  of  the  Narraganset  to  the  Mohegan,  Mor- 
gan '  assumes  that  the  tribes  of  southern  New  England  were  organ- 
ized similarly ;  and  from  another  single  statement,  attributed  to 
Powhatan,  regarding  the  descent  of  the  chieftainship  which  he  held, 
it  is  supposed  that  the  same  was  true  of  the  Algonquian  tribes  of 
eastern  Virginia.'  These  suppositions  also  have  probability  in  their 
favor,  but  the  small  ground  on  which  they  stand  should  be  kept  in 
mind. 

On  the  other  hand  the  social  organization  of  several  of  these 
tribes  does  not  altogether  square  with  the  clan  formula.  Thus  the 
Delaware  consisted  of  three  exogamic  divisions  called  by  Morgan 
Wolf,  Turkey,  and  Turtle,  but  properly  known  as  Munsee,  Unami, 
and  Unalachtigo,  names  which  signify,  respectively,  "  people  of  the 
stony  country"  or  **  mountaineers,'*  **  people  down  the  river,"  and 
**  people  who  live  near  the  ocean."  Commenting  on  this  fact,  Brin- 
ton  says  : 

**  These  three  divisions  of  the  Lenape  were  neither  'gentes*  nor 
*  phratries,  *  though  Mr  Morgan  has  endeavored  to  force  them  into  his 
system  by  stating  that  they  were  *  of  the  nature  of  phratries.'  Each  was 
divided  into  twelve  families  bearing  female  names,  and  hence  probably 
referring  to  some  unexplained  matriarchal  system.  They  were,  as  I  have 
called  them,  sub-tribes.  In  their  own  orations  they  referred  to  each 
other  as  *  playmates '  (Heckewelder) . "  * 

The  twelve  subdivisions  of  each  major  section  in  later  years  are 
said  to  have  taken  on  the  character  of  clans,  but  it  is  to  be  noted 
that  they  lack  totemic  names,  and  this  fact,  together  with  the  geo- 

^  Lederer,  Disan'ericSy  1 672,  p.  8. 

*  Morgan,  Ancient  Society ^  pp.  173,  174. 
•John  Smith,   IVorkSf  Arber  ed.,  pp.  81,  376. 

*  Brinton,  IVie  Lenape  and  their  Legends,  p.  40. 


SWANTON]  SOCIAL    ORGANIZATION  OF  AMERICAN  TRIBES  667 

graphical  character  of  the  three  main  divisions,  differentiates  the 
tribe  very  strongly  from  the  Iroquoians  and  Muskhogeans.  This 
same  local  character  is  noted  by  Matthews  and  Bourke  for  the  clans 
of  the  Navaho  and  Apache,  respectively,  and  by  Boas  and  the 
writer  regarding  all  the  minor  divisions  of  the  Haida,  Tlingit,  and 
Tsimshian. 

Du  Pratz,  our  only  authority  on  the  Natchez,  informs  us  that 
their  exogamous  divisions  corresponding  to  clans  were  different 
social  strata  and  therefore  really  castes,  and  they  appear  to  have 
been  without  totemic  names.  An  analogy  to  this  state  of  affairs  is 
furnished,  very  curiously,  by  an  Athapascan  tribe,  the  Kutchin,  liv- 
ing on  Yukon  and  Porcupine  rivers,  Alaska.  They  are  said  to  con- 
sist of  three  exogamous  bands  or  camps  which  occupy  different  sec- 
tions of  country  and  differ  in  rank,  the  children  always  belonging  to 
the  band  of  the  mother ;  but  the  divisions  lack  totemic  names.  Of 
the  other  Athapascan  tribes  of  the  far  north  we  have  the  very  best 
authority,  that  of  Morice,  for  the  statement  that  the  Carriers  and 
Tahltan  (or  western  Nahane)  have  adopted  their  clan  systems  from 
the  coast,  and  the  reported  clan  system  of  the  Knaiakhotana,  from 
the  description  given  of  it,  would  seem  to  have  arisen  similarly.  In 
the  same  way  Boas  indicates  that  the  Heiltsuk,  now  in  the  maternal 
stage,  have  adopted  their  present  organization  from  their  northern 
neighbors.  Even  the  three  most  pronounced  maternal  tribes  of  the 
north  Pacific  coast  —  the  Haida,  Tlingit,  and  Tsimshian  —  present 
anomalies  in  the  fact  that  their  larger  totemic  divisions  extend  into 
nearly  all  the  towns  occupied  by  each  tribe  and  rather  correspond 
to  the  phratries  of  other  tribes  than  to  clans  proper,  while  the 
smaller  divisions  are,  as  I  have  said,  rather  to  be  considered  as 
geographical  groups. 

Yet  even  among  tribes  which  present  this  organization  in  its 
most  typical  form  it  would  appear  that  the  authority  of  the  clan  has 
been  greatly  exaggerated  and  the  power  and  importance  of  the 
father's  clan  placed  at  a  too  low  value.  Thus,  according  to  infor- 
mation kindly  furnished  by  Mrs  Matilda  Coxe  Stevenson,  among 
the  Zuni  land  is  owned  by  families,  not  by  clans.  With  the  same 
people  a  man  is  practically  prohibited  from  marrying  into  his  fath- 
er's clan  as  well  as  into  that  of  his  mother ;  he  is  known  as  the 


668  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  fN.  s.,  7,  1905 

**  child  "  of  his  father's  clan,  and  certain  offices  are  always  held  by 
the  **  child  *'  of  a  special  clan,  thus  bringing  about  a  rude  kind  of 
paternal  descent.  The  same  abhorrence  to  marriage  into  the  clan 
of  one's  father  exists  among  the  Navaho  according  to  Matthews,' 
and  among  the  Iroquois  according  to  Hewitt. 

Organized  on  the  basis  of  gentes,  i.  e.,  exogamic  divisions  with 
descent  through  the  father,  are  the  Abnaki,'  Ottawa,^  Potawatomi,^ 
Chippewa,*  Menominee,*  Sauk  and  Foxes,*  Miami,  •  Shawnee,' 
Kickapoo,*  Blackfeet,*  Omaha, '^  Ponca,*^  Winnebago,'*'  Iowa,'* 
Oto,'°  Missouri,*"  Osage,*®  Kansa,*®  Quapa,*®  Yuman  tribes,"  and 
Kwakiutl."  It  has  been  asserted  that  traces  of  a  previous  maternal 
condition  are  found  in  many  of  these,  especially  the  tribes  of  Algon- 
quian  lineage,  and  a  change  such  as  that  implied  is  of  course  quite 
possible ;  but  the  arguments  that  Morgan  adduces  in  proof  are  too 
fragmentary  to  be  conclusive,  and  for  the  Siouan  tribes  it  is  a  pure 
assumption.  The  only  western  Siouan  tribes  claimed  as  possessing 
clans  with  maternal  descent  are  the  Mandan,  Hidatsa,  and  Crows, 
and  I  think  that  the  real  state  of  affairs  among  those  tribes  has  been 
misunderstood.  In  the  first  place  the  subdivisions  of  these  three 
tribes  are  not  totemic  and  should  evidently  be  regarded  as  bands 
rather  than  clans.  Secondly,  it  was  customary  among  very  many 
American  tribes,  no  matter  how  each  was  organized  internally,  for 
a  man  marrying  outside  to  live  with  his  wife's  people,  and  in  such 
cases  his  children  would  remain  with  her.  At  the  same  time  he 
might  equally  well  marr)''  inside  of  his  tribe  or  band  and  be  suc- 
ceeded by   his  son  in  whatever  position    he  had   attained.      This 

^  American  Anthropoloi^ist^  vi,  758,  1 904. 

*  M orga Uy  An cien t  SocietVy  p .  174- 

*lbid.,  p.  167  ;  James  in  Narrative  of  the  Capture  and  Adventures  of  John  Tan- 
ner ^  1830,  pp.  313-316  ;  Warren  in  Minn.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.^  v,  pp.  41-53. 

*  Morgan,  Ancient  Society ^  p.  170;  Hoffman  in  Fourteenth  Rep.  Bur.  Am.  Ethnol., 
pp.  41-44.  Hoffman  states  that  the  organization  was  formerly  maternal,  but  quotes  no 
authorities,  native  or  white,  except  a  very  much  qualified  statement  of  Mr  Sutherland  in 
Coil.  Hist.  Soc.   Wisconsin^  x. 

5 Morgan,  Ancient  Society^  p.  1 70.         •Ibid.,  p.  168.         'Ibid.         *Ibid.,  p.  170. 
»Grinnell,  Blackfoot  Lodge  Tales,  pp.  208-225. 
^ODorsey  in  Fifteenth  Rep.  Bur.  Am.  Ethnol.y  pp.  226-241. 

'•  JJourke  xn  Jour.  Am.  Folk-lore,  II,  pp.  180-181  ;  Kroeber  in  American  Anthro- 
pologist, IV,  p.  278. 

'2  Boas  in  Rep.  U.  S.  Nat.  Mus.  for  iSg^,  p.  334. 


SWANTON]  SOCIAL    ORGANIZATION  OF  AMERICAN  TRIBES  669 

Hewitt  ascertained  from  some  Crow  Indians  to  be  the  state  of  affairs 
in  that  tribe,  and,  since  they  have  separated  from  the  Hidatsa  in 
comparatively  modem  times,  it  may  be  assumed  for  the  latter  also. 
Nor  is  there  good  reason  for  thinking  that  the  organization  of  the 
Mandan  was  different.  Through  mistakes  of  this  kind  many  tribes 
have  been  assigned  to  a  clan  or  gentile  stage  when  the  subdivisions 
which  they  possess  are  neither  clans  nor  gentes  ;  and  for  this  reason 
it  is  preferable  to  accept  the  authority  of  Mooney  ^  regarding  the 
social  organization  of  the  Cheyenne  rather  than  that  of  Grinnell.* 
Of  the  subdivisions  of  this  tribe  only  two  present  features  at  all  sug- 
gestive of  totemic  clans,  while  one,  the  Sutayu,  is  known  to  have 
been  formerly  an  independent  tribe,  and  it  would  be  absurd  to  sup- 
pose that  it  was  then  exogamic.  In  the  case  of  the  Blackfeet,  Grin- 
nell  is  our  best  authority,  and  I  have  followed  him,  but,  inasmuch 
as  he  states  that  marriages  now  take  place  within  the  **gens,"  I  am 
inclined  to  question  whether  they  did  not  in  ancient  times  as  well. 
At  all  events  these  divisions  are  evidently  not  totemic,  and  the  same 
is  true  of  the  Kwakiutl  gentes,  which  are  called  after  reputed  ances- 
tors or  else  by  some  grandiloquent  term  referring  to  their  power  and 
wealth. 

In  discussing  the  organization  of  the  Mandan,  Hidatsa,  and 
Crows  I  have  indicated  a  type  of  organization  in  which,  while  there 
may  be  tribal  subdivisions,  these  are  not  exogamic,  lack  totems,  and 
hence  cannot  be  called  either  clans  or  gentes.  In  this  t3q>e  the 
family,  although  it  may  be  a  polygamous  one,  is  the  basis  of  the 
state,  and  property,  authority,  and  emoluments  either  descend  or 
tend  to  descend  from  father  to  son.  In  this  category  may  be  placed 
the  Shoshonean,^  Salishan,*  and  eastern  Athapascan*  peoples,  the 

*  Mooney  in  Fourteenth  Rep.  Bur,  Am,  EthnoL^  p.  956. 

^Grinnell  in  Proc.  Internat.  Cong.  Americanists^  13th  sess.,  N.  Y.,  1902,  pp.  135- 
146. 

3  The  Shoshonean  organization  has  been  referred  to  specifically  by  very  few  writers, 
but  that  it  was  of  this  type,  omitting  the  Hopi  of  course,  may  be  inferred  from  everything 
that  can  be  learned  about  it.  For  the  Comanche,  however,  see  Mooney  in  Fourteenth 
Rep.  Bur.  Am,  Ethnol.,  p.  956. 

*  Boas  in  Reports  on  N.  W.  Tribes  of  Can,  for  B,  A,  A,  S,  for  1889,  1890,  1891, 
and  1893  »  Hill-Tout  in  Ethnol,  Surv,  Can,  for  6.  A.  A.  S.,  1899,  1900,  and  1902. 
Hill-Tout  in  Jour.  Anthrop.  Inst,^  Jan.-June,  1904  ;  Teit  in  Memoirs  Am.  Mus,  Nat, 
Hist.,  II,  pp.  289-296  ;  Gibbs  in  Cont,  A1  A,  Ethnol, y  I,  pp.  184-186. 

*  Morice  in  Proc,  Can,  Inst,  for  iSSSSg,  pp.  121,  126  ;  Trans,  Roy,  Soc,  Can.  for 
i8g2y  sec.  11,  p.  117. 


670  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Kutenai,*  the  Nootka,*  the  rest  of  the  people  of  Washington,* 
Oregon,*  and  California*  excepting  the  Yuman  tribes  already  re- 
ferred to,  the  Arapaho,*  Kiowa,*  Crows,*  Cheyenne,*  and  the  tribes 
of  the  Caddoan  stock  outside  of  the  Caddo  confederacy/  To  these 
may  be  added  the  Eskimo®  and  Aleut,  and  probably  the  Cree,  the 
Algonquian  bands  east  of  Hudson  bay,  the  Khotana  of  the  lower 
Yukon,  and  the  Pima  tribes.*  In  the  extent  of  country  which  it 
covers  and  the  importance  of  some  of  the  stocks  involved,  it  will  be 
seen  that  this  system — or  lack  of  system, — compares  very  favor- 
ably with  either  of  those  already  considered. 

Thus  on  purely  quantitative  grounds  a  study  of  the  tribes  north 
of  Mexico  lends  no  overwhelming  support  to  the  theory  of  a  primi- 
tively universal  maternal  clan  system.  But  when  we  come  to  com- 
pare the  tribes  in  which  a  clan  system  exists  individually  with  those 
which  are  without  it,  the  tenuous  character  of  its  foundations  be- 
comes painfully  manifest.  For,  granting  its  truth,  we  are  compelled 
to  assume  the  inferiority  of  the  tribes  constituting  the  Iroquois  and 
Creek  confederacies,  the  Timucua  of  Florida,  and  the  Natchez  of 
Louisiana  and  Mississippi  to  the  Cree  and  Eskimo ;  of  the  Pueblos 
and  Navaho  to  the  Paiute  and  the  tribes  of  California ;  and  of  the 
Haida,  Tlingit,  and  Tsimshian  to  the  Salishan  and  eastern  Atha- 
pascan tribes. 

Instead  of  being  primitive,  a  study  of  the  north  Pacific  area  con- 
vinces one  that  the  maternal  clan  system  is  itself  evolved,  for  there 

'  Cham!)erlain  in  Rep.  on  N.   IV.  Vridrs  of  Can.  for  B.  A.  A.  S.^  1 892,  p.  12. 

*  Hoas  in  Kcp.  on  A".   \V.   Tribes  of  Can.  for  B.  A.  A.  S.  for  1890,  pp.  32,  33,  43. 
3Gib!)s  in  Cont.  xV.  A.  Ethnol.y  I,  pp.  184-186];  Farrand  in  American  Anthropol- 

ogisiy  III,  p.  242  ;  (loddard,  Life  and  Culture  of  the  I/upa^  Univ.  Cal.  Publ.,  Am.  Arch. 
and  Eth.,  I,  p.  58  ;  Kroeber,  Types  of  Indian  Culture  in  California^  ibid.,  li,  pp,  83, 
84,  87  ;  Dixon,  Northern  Maiduy  in  Bull.  Am.  Mus.  Nat.  Hist.,  xvil,  p.  223. 

*Mooney  in  Fourteenth  Rep.  Bur.  Am.  Ethnol.y  p.  956;  Kroeber,  l^he  Arapaho, 
Bull.  Am.  Mus.  Nat.  Hist.,  xviii,  p.  8. 

*Mooney  in  Seventeenth  Rep.  Bur.  Am.  Ethnol.^  p.  227. 

*  See  above. 

'  Personal  information. 

6  Boas  in  Sixth  Rep.  Bur.  Am.  Ethnol.^  pp.  578-582  ;  Turner  in  Ele-i*enth  Report 
Bur.  Am.   Ethnol.,  p.  1 90.     The  totemism  referred  to  by  Nelson  in  Eighteenth   Rep. 
Bur.  Am.  Ethnol.  is  plainly  not  coupled  with  a  true  clan  or  gentile  system,  and  is  quite 
certainly  due  to  the  influence  of  more  southerly  tribes. 

8  Shown  by  investigations  of  Russell,  as  yet  unpublished. 


SWANTON]  SOCIAL    ORGANIZA  TION  OF  AMERICAN  TRIBES  67  I 

is  every  indication  that  it  there  grew  up  in  one  small  area  at  the 
mouths  of  the  Nass  and  Skeena  rivers  and  was  spreading  northward, 
southward,  and  inland  at  the  time  these  trites  first  came  to  the 
notice  of  Europeans.  That  an  evolution  has  taken  place  in  the 
Southwest  is  indicated  by  Fewkes'  study  of  Hopi  clans,  as  well  as 
by  everything  that  we  have  learned  of  the  relation  of  Navaho  culture 
to  that  of  the  Pueblos.  It  is  also  evident  that  the  type  of  the  social 
organization  has  some  relation  to  environment,  typical  clan  systems 
being  found  usually  in  the  maize  country,  although  the  north  Pacific 
coast  presents  an  exception,  while  the  loose  type  is  found  principally 
in  cold  northern  regions  and  the  barren  western  plateau  where 
food  is  scarce.  Yet  here  again  California  and  the  coast  region 
of  Oregon,  Washington,  and  southern  British  Columbia  must  be 
excepted. 

An  interesting  point  to  be  noted  is  the  position  of  gentile  areas 
relative  to  the  two  others.  Unless  we  except  the  Blackfeet  it  will 
be  seen  that  each  of  these  touches  on  regions  occupied  by  tribes  in 
the  two  remaining  categories.  Thus  the  Sioux-Algonquian  area 
lies  between  the  Iroquois  and  Muskhogean  tribes'on  one  side  and 
the  Shoshonean,  Salishan,  and  eastern  Athapascan  tribes  on  the 
other ;  the  Yuman  tribes  lie  betu^een  the  Navaho  and  the  Piman  and 
Shoshonean  tribes ;  and  the  Kwakiutl  are  between  the  maternally 
organized  Heiltsuk  and  the  Nootka  and  Salish.  This  association 
suggests  at  once  whether  the  evolution  of  the  gentile  system  and 
the  evolution  of  the  clan  system  have  borne  any  peculiar  relation  to 
each  other.  In  the  case  of  the  Kwakiutl  we  know  that  the  organi- 
zation contains  elements  probably  borrowed  from  their  northern 
neighbors,  and  it  is  believed  that  their  relatives  on  the  north,  the 
Heiltsuk,  have  changed  to  a  maternal  form  of  organization  through 
the  influence  of  the  maternally  organized  Tsimshian  and  Haida. 
Supposing  the  same  influence  to  continue,  we  might  expect  that  the 
Kwakiutl,  in  time,  would  also  have  reached  a  maternal  stage.  In 
other  words,  the  curious  phenomenon  here  presents  itself  of  a  loosely 
organized  tribe  changing  to  a  gentile  and  afterward  to  a  clan  system. 
At  the  same  time  the  Kwakiutl  gentile  system  can  hardly  be  re- 
garded as  typical,  and  I  should  be  inclined  to  doubt  whether  a 
gentile  system  that  had  attained  the  perfection  of  that  of  the  Omaha, 


II- 

I 


.1 


■  1 1 

■  j  ■ 


I 
i 


;i 


r 

I 


!' 


I 


I 

I: 


672  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 


for  instance,  would  pass  over  naturally  into  a  clan  system.  This 
possibility  ought  to  be  reckoned  with,  however,  in  dealing  with 
those  "traces  of  a  maternal  stage"  that  we  hear  so  much  about 
It  might  put  quite  a  different  interpretation  on  several  conclusions 
arrived  at  by  Morgan. 

A  thorough  investigation  of  this  problem  demands  an  examina- 
tion of  certain  tendencies  among  tribes  in  the  last  category.      The 
it  relative  proportion  of  cases  in  which  a  man  goes  to  live  with  his 

wife's  people  to  those  in  which  a  woman  goes  to  live  with  those  ox 
her  husband  ought  to  be  noted,  also  the  attitude  of  the  members  of 
a  band  toward  marriage  within  and  marriage  outside,  and  toward 
marriage  among  foreign  tribes.  The  treatment  of  tribes  or  bands 
adopted  into  others  or  becoming  allied  to  others  ought  also  to  be 
examined,  as  well  as  tendencies  of  a  band  or  tribe  to  segregate,  and 
I  the  attitude  of  these  parts  toward  each  other  and  of  other  bands 

toward  all. 

The  totemic  side  of  the  question,  on  the  other  hand,  requires 
close  investigation  of  the  religious  beliefs  of  primitive  people  and 
especially  of  the  related  phenomena  presented  by  the  personal 
manitu,  the  crest  of  the  Northwest  coast,  the  so-called  "  suliaism  " 
of  Salish  tribes,^  and  the  heraldry  of  the  tribes  of  the  plains.  It 
appears  to  be  rather  a  badge  or  "  medicine  "  affixed  to  bands  which 
have  become  differentiated  regardless  of  it  than  an  essential  element 
of  clan  or  gentile  organization. 

More  care  should  be  exercised  by  sociologists  in  picking  out 
"vestigial  characters."  Doubtless  such  exist,  but  in  determining 
what  they  are  we  must  first  be  certain  that  they  have  no  meaning 
or  function  for  the  present  generation,  and  secondly  that,  instead  of 
vestiges,  they  are  not  rather  tendencies  toward  something  still  in  the 
future.  Thus  the  application  of  the  term  "wife'*  to  a  wife's  sister, 
or  of  "  husband  "  to  a  sister's  husband  is  not  a  "  vestigial  character" 
as  has  been  maintained,  but  indicates  the  potential  relationship  in 
which  the  parties  stand,  a  man  having  a  prior  claim  on  his  wife's 
sister  in  case  of  his  wife's  death.  Other  so-called  "  vestigial  char- 
acters "  are  of  much  the  same  order. 

While    this    field   presents    abundant   opportunities   for    future 


*  Hill-Tout,  op.  cit. 


SWANTON]  SOCIAL    ORGANIZATION  OF  AMERICAN  TRIBES  673 

investigation,  it  would  seem  to  the  writer,  from  the  evidence  already 
adduced,  that  the  primitive  nature  of  the  maternal  clan  is  not  sub- 
stantiated by  a  study  of  the  American  tribes  north  of  Mexico,  and 
can  be  proved  only  by  presenting  more  abundant  proof  from  other 
quarters  of  the  globe. 

Bureau  of  American  Ethnology, 
Washington,  D.  C. 


I 


•■I 

'  .1 


I 
I 


,■1 

1 

■■  I 

'  \ 

1 1 
,l 

i 


I  : 


li 


) 


If 
I 
I 


I 

i 


SOME   FEATURES   OF  THE   LANGUAGE    AND 
CULTURE   OF  THE  SALISH^ 

By   CHARLES   HILL-TOUT 


i  Of  the  three  g^eat  bases  of  ethnic  classification  —  the  physical, 

the  cultural,  and  the  linguistic  —  no  doubt,  it  seems  to  me,  can 
remain  in  the  mind  of  any  student  of  anthropology  in  this  country, 
of  the  practical  superiority  of  the  latter  over  the  two  former.  ^  While 
desiring  in  no  way  to  disparage  or  lessen  the  value  of  the  results 
obtained  by  physical  and  cultural  investigation,  my  own  field  studies 
in  these  directions  have  convinced  me  that  the  only  possible  classifi- 
cation for  American  students  in  tlie  present  state  of  our  knowledge 
is  the  linguistic. 
j  In  saying  this  I  am  perfectly  well  aware  that  a  community  of 

1   ;  language  does  not  necessarily  involve  a  community  of  origin.      But 

neither  for  the  matter  of  that  does  community  of  culture,  for  that 
can  be  borrowed  and  adopted  as  well  as  language ;  and  as  for  a 
j  community  of  physical  characteristics  I  question  very  seriously  if 

■  such  a  thing  is  possible  at  this  stage  of  human  history.      The  race 

that  is  commonly  regarded  as  the  purest  in  the  world  —  the  Hebraic 
—  has  been  shown  to  be  as  physically  heterogeneous  as  many  other 
admittedly  mixed  races. 

From  the  point  of  view,  then,  of  homogeneity  of  race,  the  lin- 
guistic test  is  as  good  as  the  physical  or  the  cultural,  and  as  a  prac- 
;  tical  working  basis  it  is  unquestionably  the  best  at  our  disposal, 

and  the  one  by  which,  I  believe,  the  surest  results  will  be  obtained 
in  the  study  of  the  native  races  of  North  America. 

Perhaps  nowhere  on  this  continent  can  the  correctness  of  this 

view  be  better  illustrated  than  in  the  study  of  that  diversified  and  ex- 

'  tensive  stock  known  to  ethnologists  as  the  Salishan.     In  their  cultural 

j  elements  and  in  their  physical  characteristics  these  Indians  are  as 

i  diverse  as  any  race  could  well  be,  but  throughout  all  this  diversity 


>  Read  at  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association,  San  Francisco, 

August  29. 

674 


HiLL-TOUTl  LANGUAGE  AND   CULTURE   OF  SALISH  67$ 

of  culture  and  somatology  there  runs  a  clear  and  marked  uniformity 
in  the  basal  elements  and  in  the  morphological  principles  of  their 
speech.  Indeed  this  fundamental  unity  of  their  language  forms  one 
of  the  most  interesting  features  in  the  study  of  this  stock.  This 
point  becomes  the  more  striking  when  we  remember  that  the  dialectal 
differences  in  their  language  are  sometimes  very  great,  greater  than 
those  existing  in  the  Romance  languages  of  Europe.  But  so 
strongly  does  this  underlying  unity  manifest  itself  that  when  all  the 
dialects  of  this  family  shall  have  been  examined  I  am  persuaded  it 
will  be  possible  to  reconstruct  the  primitive  Salish  tongue  as  spoken 
by  the  original  and  undivided  founders  of  this  stock. 

Before  I  proceed  to  invite  your  attention  to  some  of  the  more 
interesting  results  of  my  studies  of  this  people,  I  would  like  to 
remark  incidentally  that  these  primitive  tongues  are  worthy  of  the 
highest  regard  and  consideration  of  philologists  and  grammarians 
on  account  of  the  light  their  study  incidentally  throws  on  the  evo- 
lution and  development  of  the  formative  elements  in  speech.  Being 
for  the  most  part  in  an  earlier,  less  developed,  and  less  settled  state 
than  the  cultivated  tongues,  they  show  us  in  actual  operation  the 
processes  by  which  the  original,  plastic,  inchoate  elements  of  speech 
are  converted  into  instruments  of  formal  thought ;  how  the  "  parts 
of  speech  "  became  differentiated  and  restricted  in  function ;  how 
the  earlier  demonstrative  elements  are  changed  into  adverbs,  prepo- 
sitions, and  pronouns ;  and  how  the  modal,  temporal,  and  declen- 
sional elements  are  evolved  from  radicals  of  independent  force  and 
import. 

When  I  was  a  young  man  it  was  one  of  the  axioms  of  philo- 
logical science  that  the  numeral  and  pronominal  elements  of  a 
language  were  well-nigh  immutable,  and  that  on  the  similarity  or 
dissimilarity  of  these  might  a  group  of  tongues  be  judged  to  be  or 
not  to  be  related.  But  any  one  familiar  with  the  dialectal  differ- 
ences of  our  larger  linguistic  stocks  is  now  well  aware  of  the  falli- 
bility of  such  a  test  as  that  which,  if  applied,  for  example,  to  the 
Salish  tongues,  would  give  us  instead  of  one  linguistic  family  or 
group  at  least  half  a  dozen.  Such  tests,  it  is  clear,  are  applicable 
only  to  languages  like  the  Aryan,  which  reach  a  certain  degree  of 
definiteness  in  forms  before  their  separation  into  distinct  divisions 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  ^ — 45. 


676  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

takes  place.     Similarity  of  lexical  forms  has  been  a  very  useful  test 
in  the  mapping  out  of  the  different  linguistic  groups  of  this  conti- 
nent.    Our  ignorance  of  the  morphology  of  the  primitive  languages 
of  this  hemisphere  left  us  no  other  course ;  but  no  one  who  has  given 
attention  to  the  study  of  the  structure  of  these  languages  can  doubt 
that,  as  our  knowledge  of  their  organization  advances,  the  number 
of  stocks  now  recognized  will  be  very  materially  decreased  and  that 
instead  of  some  one  hundred  and  fifty  we  shall  ultimately  recognize 
probably  fewer  than  a  fourth  of  that  number.     My  own  examination 
of  these  tongues  has  led  me  to  the  conclusion  that  the   differences 
seen  in  the  morphology  of  many  groups  are  more  superficial  than 
radical,  and  that  beneath  an  apparent  dissimilarity  in  structure  there 
is  an  underlying  principle  of  unity  running  through  many  of  them. 
For  example,  the  Salish  and  Kwaklutl  tongues  are  superficially  dif- 
ferent in  their  morphology,  but  when  this  difference  is  analyzed  it  is 
seen  to  be  one  of  degree  only,  not  of  kind,  and  is  exactly  of  the 
same  nature  as  that  existing  between  the  various  Salish  dialects 
themselves,  only  in  the  Kwakiutl  it  has  been  carried  further  and 
been  more  deeply  affected  by  foreign  influences.     And  this  applies 
in  a  greater  or  lesser  degree  in  all  the  languages  of  the  Pacific  coast 
north   of  the  Columbia,  and  I  have   no  doubt  that  one  day  the 
majority  of  these  stocks  will  be  included  in  one  linguistic  family. 

This  however  is  by  the  way.  It  is  not  so  much  of  language  that 
I  desire  to  speak  at  this  time,  though  I  cannot  leave  the  subject 
without  first  calling  attention  to  what  has  seemed  to  me  a  most 
interesting  and  suggestive  feature  of  the  Salish  tongue.  And  first  I 
would  say  that  I  regard  the  plasticity  of  these  primitive  languages 
as  their  most  marked  characteristic.  It  is  a  feature  they  all  possess, 
and  is  clearly  due  to  the  independence  and  informal  character  of  the 
elements  of  language  in  its  earlier  stages.  A  study  of  such  tongues 
as  the  Salish  would  suggest  to  one  that  the  vocables  of  primitive 
speech  were  very  loosely  and  indefinitely  applied  ;  that  a  large  part 
of  their  sense  and  meaning  was  conveyed  not  by  the  words  them- 
selves, but  by  those  auxiliaries  of  early  speech  — tone  and  gesture  ; 
and  that  for  a  long  period  there  was  no  fixed  order  or  sentence  in 
the  words.  The  same  terms  according  to  their  order  or  position 
were  now  nouns,  now  verbs,  adverbs,  adjectives,  or  other  parts  of 


HILL-TOUT]  LANGUAGE  AND   CULTURE   OF  SALISH  677 

speech  as  the  sense  required.  Most  if  not  all  cultivated  languages 
still  exhibit  this  characteristic  in  a  greater  or  lesser  degree.  Eng- 
lish still  retains,  or  rather  has  recovered,  the  power  of  converting  any 
word  into  a  verb  ;  and  the  Chinese,  we  know,  has  never  gone  beyond 
this  early  stage.  There  the  function  and  sense  of  a  word  depends 
entirely  on  tone  and  position  in  the  sentence. 

The  Salish  in  its  present  state  of  development  has  passed  beyond 
this  stage  and  has  arrived  at  that  point  where  differentiation  of  the 
formal  parts  of  speech  takes  place ;  when  terms  begin  to  lose  their 
original  independence  and  plasticity  of  form  and  are  given  fixed  out- 
lines and  functions  ;  when  subsidiary  particles  are  evolved,  a  settled 
order  and  method  of  verbal  synthesis  arises,  and  the  morphological 
principles  of  the  language  are  firmly  established. 

But  it  is  abundantly  clear  from  a  comparative  theory  of  the  nu- 
merous Salish  dialects  that  prior  to  the  separation  and  division  of  this 
stock  the  languages  had  not  reached  this  stage.  The  pronominal 
forms  vary  radically,  with  one  or  two  notable  exceptions,  in  every 
dialect ;  and  everywhere  the  forms  commonly  employed  to  indicate 
the  third  person  have  still  an  independent  demonstrative  force,  and 
in  most  cases  are  used  in  other  constructions  as  simple  demonstra- 
tives, showing  plainly  and  indisputably  thereby  the  demonstrative 
origin  of  pronouns.  For  even  with  the  other  two  persons  the  forms 
commonly  employed  have  to  take,  in  many  instances,  a  regular 
demonstrative  to  give  the  full  force  and  meaning. 

Again,  most  of  the  numeral  forms  differ  radically  in  each  of  the 
greater  divisions  of  this  stock,  whereas  in  the  divisions  of  the 
Aryan  family  the  numeral  roots  are  common  throughout  up  to  a 
hundred,  I  believe.  I  would  not  regard  this  diversity  of  form  in  the 
Salish  dialects  as  indicating  that  the  ancestors  of  the  stock  could  or 
did  not  possess  numerals  before  their  separation,  but  rather  as  indi- 
cating the  rudimental  informal  condition  of  their  language  at  that 
time,  when  ideas  of  number,  like  ideas  of  person,  were  conveyed  in 
a  variety  of  ways,  and  when  there  were  but  few  fixed  forms. 

Perhaps  the  most  interesting  and  suggestive  example  of  this  un- 
settled inchoate  state  of  the  language  before  the  separation  is  seen  in 
the  use  of  the  temporal  elements  in  verbal  construction.  These 
elements  in  the  Salish  dialects,  unlike  those  in  the  classic  tongues, 


6/8  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  190$ 

have  still  for  the  greater  part  an  independent  function.  They  are 
primarily  locatives  or  demonstrative  adverbs,  and  are  used  as  such 
apart  from  the  verb.  One  of  the  most  constant  of  these  is  the 
term  nc,  and  the  interesting  part  about  it  is  that  a  group  of  the 
interior  British  Columbia  tribes  employ  it  to  mark  future  actions 
and  states,  while  most  of  the  coastal  tribes  use  it  to  sig^niiy  past 
actions  and  states. 

Nothing  could  illustrate  better  the  plastic,  unsettled  state  of  the 
language  prior  to  the  separation  of  the  divisions  of  this  stock  than 
this  double  and  contrary  usage  of  the  same  radical ;  and  in  my  ear- 
lier studies  of  this  language  it  puzzled  me  not  a  little  to  account  for  it 
But  as  soon  as  its  identification  with  the  corresponding  demonstra- 
tive radix  ne  became  clear,  it  ceased  to  be  a  puzzle,  but  became 
rather  a  suggestive  illuming  ray  of  light  on  the  obscure  processes 
of  savage  mentation.  This  term,  as  I  have  said,  had  and  still  has 
an  independent  locative  significance  such  as  is  conveyed  by  our 
term  "there,"  or  "yonder.**  Now  it  is  clear  at  once  that  the 
border  line  of  time  has  a  "there*'  on  either  side  of  it.  The  past 
and  the  future  are,  from  the  standpoint  of  the  present,  both  titere  or 
yonder ;  consequendy  the  same  term  could  be  employed  to  mark 
either  a  past  or  a  future  action  or  state.  And  that  it  was  so  used 
by  the  undivided  Salish  I  have  not  the  least  doubt.  To  this  day 
they  regard  actions  and  states  as  occurring  in  "place"  rather  than 
in  "  time."     It  is  "  here  "  or  "  there,"  not  "  now  "  and  "  then." 

I  do  not  venture  to  say  on  the  strength  of  the  Salish  usage  of 
locative  elements  that  the  temporal  particles  in  verbal  compounds  in 
all  language  arose  in  this  manner,  though  I  think  it  highly  probable 
that  a  great  many  did.  Thus  a  study  of  these  primitive  tongues 
may,  as  I  have  said,  throw  much  light  on  the  development  of  the 
formative  elements  of  cultivated  languages,  the  origin  of  which  has 
become  lost  or  obscured  by  lapse  of  time  and  by  the  loss  of  their 
earlier  independent  status  and  function. 

Passing  now  from  language  to  culture,  I  would  like  to  point  out 
that  my  studies  in  this  direction  have  resulted  in  disclosing  an  extra- 
ordinary diversity  in  the  social  institutions,  customs,  and  beliefs  of 
the  different  Salish  tribes.  And  this  diversity  is  not  confined  to  the 
larger,  more  important  features  of  their  culture,  but  extends  often- 


HiLETOUT]  LANGUAGE  AND   CULTURE   OF  SALISH  679 

times  to  the  merest  details  in  the  minor  issues  of  their  lives.  As 
an  illustration  of  this  I  may  cite  the  differences  in  their  mortuary, 
marriage,  puberty,  birth,  and  naming  customs.  I  have  called  at- 
tention to  these  differences  from  time  to  time  in  my  reports  on  the 
Salish,*  but  I  may  mention  one  or  two  of  them  here.  Thus  one 
feature  of  the  mortuary  ceremony  is  the  severing  of  the  hair  of  the 
surviving  relatives  of  the  deceased.  This  is  the  conventional  sign 
of  mourning  with  them  ;  and  while  all  the  tribes  practise  this  not  un- 
common rite  among  primitive  peoples,  no  two  of  them,  so  far  as 
my  observations  go,  treat  or  deal  with  the  severed  hair  in  the  same 
manner.  This  may  seem  a  small  and  unimportant  point ;  but  the 
difference  of  treatment  reveals  a  fundamental  difference  in  their  con- 
ceptions and  ideas  which  appears  to  me  to  be  most  interesting. 
Thus  in  one  group  they  dispose  of  the  hair  by  burning  it  so  that  it 
may  not  be  used  by  an  enemy  to  bewitch  them ;  in  another  they 
take  it  away  and  bury  it  in  some  spot  outside  the  camp  where  the 
vegetation  is  vigorous  and  dense,  insuring  thereby  to  the  owners 
long  life  and  strength ;  in  another  they  put  it  away  carefully  to  be 
buried  with  their  corpses  at  death  ;  in  another  it  is  cast  into  running 
water,  and  in  still  another  it  is  taken  into  the  forest  and  fastened  on 
the  branches  of  the  mystic  red-fir  tree,  always  on  its  eastern  side ; 
and  doubtless  in  other  divisions  they  have  still  other  practices. 

It  is  the  same  in  puberty  rites.  No  two  groups  follow  the  same 
customs.  The  place  and  period  of  seclusion  vary  apparently  in 
every  tribe.  Some  build  little  cubicles  within  the  dwellings  over 
the  general  sleeping  platform,  wherein  both  boys  and  girls  are 
separately  secluded  for  a  period  of  ten  days ;  others  construct  special 
shelters  outside,  wherein  only  the  girls  are  secluded  for  a  period  of 
time  differing  in  each  division ;  others  again  make  their  pubescent 
children  retire  to  the  forest,  some  for  a  short  period  and  some  for  six 
months  or  a  year.  In  some  tribes  the  shamans  play  an  important 
part  in  the  rites  ;  in  others  the  elders  take  charge  of  the  pubescents, 
instructing  them  generally  in  the  various  duties  and  responsibilities 
of  manhood  and  womanhood.  Among  the  interior  tribes  every 
pubescent  boy  and  girl  during  his  or  her  period  of  seclusion  or  train- 
ing acquires  a  personal  totem,  but  among  the  delta  and  coastal 

1  See  the  publications  of  the  Ethnological  Survey  of  Canada. 


68o  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

tribes  girls  do  not  customarily  acquire  totems  at  all ;  and  only  those 
youths  who  have  a  desire  to  excel  in  some  special  pursuit  seek  and 
acquire  personal  guardian  spirits.  These  are  but  a  few  instances  of 
the  minor  differences ;  numerous  others  may  be  found  in  my  vari- 
ous reports  on  this  stock. 

Of  the  wider  differences  in  their  culture,  some  of  the  more  im- 
portant are  those  relating  to  their  social  institutions.  With  respect 
to  these,  if  we  may  take  simpUcity  of  social  forms  as  indicating  the 
earlier  stages  in  the  cultural  development  of  a  people,  then  the 
simple  organization  of  the  interior  tribes,  of  which  the  Thompson 
Indians  afford  a  fair  example,  may  be  regarded  as  representing  most 
nearly  the  earlier  culture  of  the  Salishan  stock.  From  this  point, 
as  we  approach  the  coastal  tribes,  we  find  an  increasing  complexity 
in  social  structure  and  an  ever-widening  divergence  in  customs, 
practices,  and  beliefs. 

Many  of  these  differences,  both  greater  and  minor,  are  doubtless 
due  to  difference  in  habitat  The  interior  tribes  inhabit  a  dry  region, 
those  on  the  coast  the  very  opposite,  precipitation  being  frequent 
and  often  excessive  with  them.  The  climate  here  is  also  milder  in 
winter  than  in  the  interior,  and  this  fact  alone  would  account  for 
the  main  difference  in  their  dress  and  dwellings.  The  wide  vari- 
ability in  the  physical  characteristics  of  the  race,  however,  show 
plainly,  too,  that  some  of  their  diversity  of  culture  is  due  to  race- 
admixture  ;  doubtless  some  is  also  due  to  the  influx  of  new  ideas 
from  contiguous  stocks,  but  more  I  think  is  the  result  of  spontane- 
ous independent  cultural  development. 

Among  the  interior  tribes  the  office  of  chieftain  is  elective  and  the 
conduct  of  affairs  is  mainly  in  the  hands  of  the  elders  of  the  tribe. 
When  we  reach  the  Lillooet  and  the  HalkOma  lem  divisions  we  find 
that  this  office,  though  still  elective  in  theory,  has  become  practically 
hereditary ;  and  when  we  come  to  the  coastal  Salish  we  find  that 
the  chieftaincy  descends  regularly  from  father  to  son  and  has  been 
held  by  the  same  family  for  as  many  generations  as  they  have  any 

record  of 

The  earlier,  simpler  forms  of  social  organization  show  a  state  of 
democratic  equality  and  independence  existing  which  amounts  to 
what  one  may  denominate  as  pure  anarchy.     From  this  condition 


HiLLTOUT]  LANGUAGE  AND   CULTURE   OF  SALISH  68 1 

of  things  to  that  obtaining  among  the  coastal  tribes  is  a  far  cry. 
Here  we  find  the  chiefs  hereditary,  a  princely  caste  established,  and 
the  rest  of  the  tribe  divided  into  nobles  and  base  folk,  the  former 
possessing  and  enjoying  exclusive  rights  and  privileges.  * 

But  the  most  important  changes  that  have  taken  place  in  the  cul- 
ture of  the  delta  and  coastal  tribes  are  those,  in  my  opinion,  relating 
to  totemic  ideas  and  conceptions.  And  here  I  shall  make  some 
little  digression  in  order  that  I  may  the  better  illustrate  the  im- 
portance of  my  studies  in  this  direction. 

As  most  of  us  probably  are  aware,  the  subject  of  totemism  does 
not  loom  so  large  in  anthropological  inquiry  in  this  country  as  in 
Europe,  and  particularly  in  England.  There,  no  question  has  of 
late  years  had  so  much  attention  given  to  it  as  totemism,  and  views 
are  commonly  held  regarding  its  origin  and  import  which  are  rad- 
ically different  from  those  generally  held  by  students  in  this  country. 
Our  studies  of  the  subject  have  led  most  of  us  to  regard  totemism 
as  primarily  a  religious  institution  or  manifestation,  the  inevitable 
outcome  of  savage  man's  attitude  toward  nature,  the  social  aspects 
of  which  are  something  very  secondary  and  incidental,  and  which 
attained  such  importance  as  they  possess  in  savage  regimentation 
because  of  their  obvious  convenience  in  classifying  and  distinguish- 
ing one  kin-group  from  another. 

But  this  is  not  the  view  taken  by  European  students.  Totemism 
with  them  is  primarily  and  essentially  a  social  institution  originating 
in  and  properly  belonging  to  the  matriarchal  state  of  society  and 
constituting  at  once  the  cause  and  basis  of  clan  organization. 
Furthermore,  they  commonly  regard  personal  totemism  —  which  to 
them  is  a  contradiction  in  terms  —  as  something  distinct  altogether 
from  group  totemism,  or  at  most  a  later  derivative  phase  of  it 

Such  a  view  of  the  matter  is  as  perplexing  to  us  as  our  views 
are  to  them.  To  us  the  personal  totem  precedes  the  group  totem 
and  is  the  source  and  origin  of  it.  Moreover,  we  do  not  find  that 
group  totemism  is  a  peculiarity  of  tribes  organized  on  a  matriarchal 
basis.  It  is  as  characteristic  of  the  patriarchal  and  the  village  state 
as  of  the  matriarchal  in  this  country ;  and  that  it  may  originate  in 
a  state  of  society  other  than  the  matriarchal  I  think  is  clear  beyond 
the  shadow  of  a  doubt  from  the  evidence  I  have  gathered  among 


682  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

the  Salish,  whose  organization,  as  you  are  aware,  is  that  of  the 

village  commune. 

There  is  something  equally  common  and  equally  essential  to  the 
totemism  of  the  village  Salish,  the  patrilineal  Sioux,  and  the  matri- 
lineal  Haida.     This  obviously  is  not  its  social  characteristics,  for 
these  three  stocks  have  different  social  organizations  ;   but  it  is  its 
religious  character,  for  all  three  hold  and  share  alike  the  common 
belief  in  tutelary  spirits,  which  belief  is  seen  to  h'e  at  the  base  of  and 
to  give  life  and  meaning  equally  to  the  totemism  of  each.      Ethno- 
logical study  here  has  made  it  perfectly  clear  that  totemism  prevails 
in  one  form  or  another  in  all  our  American  tribes  ;  and   it  has 
further  revealed  the  fact  that  its  social  aspects  vary  with  the  social 
organization  of  the  different  stocks  or  groups.     Among  all  the  per- 
sonal or  individual  totem  or  tutelary  spirit  is  in  evidence.      Indeed 
it  is  the  very  prevalence  of  the  personal  totem  —  the  nagtiai^  tnanitou^ 
sulia,  snam,  wahabc,  or  whatever  it  may  locally  be  called  —  that 
has  led  those  of  us  who  have  made  a  first-hand  study  of  the  subject 
to  regard  group  totemism  as  a  natural  extension  and  development 
under  social  requirements  of  personal  totemism.     And  just  here  is 
where  the  totemism  of  the  Salish  becomes  interesting   and    sug- 
gestive.    Everywhere  amongst  them  we  find  the  personal  totem  in 
vogue ;  and  the  evidence  I  have  been  able  to  gather  on  this  head 
makes  it  perfectly  clear,  in  my  judgment,  that  the  group  totemism 
we  find  among  them  is  a  development  of  their  personal  totemism. 
For  in  the  tribes  of  the  interior,  where  group  totems,  so  far  as  we 
have  been  able  to  discover,  are  wholly  unknown,  ci'ery  individual  of 
both  sexes  is  said  to  possess  his  or  her  personal  totem  ;  and  it  is 
only  when  we  come  to  those  divisions  which  possess  group   and 
hereditary  totems  —  which  are  everywhere  demonstrably  later  de- 
velopments of  the  personal  totem  —  that  we  find  the  personal  totem 
less  common  and  possessed  by  certain  members  of  the  tribe  only. 
In  those  tribes  where  the  kin  or  family  totems  are  common,  the  per- 
sonal totem  is  comparatively  rare.     This  state  of  things  points  con- 
clusively, to  my  mind,  to  the  supersedure  of  the  personal  totem  by 
the  kin  or  group  totem  because  of  the  changes  that  have  taken 
place  in  the  social  organization  of  these  tribes.     For  among  all  the 
tribes  possessing  group  or  kin  totems  we  find  prevailing  a  social 


HILL-TOUT]  LANGUAGE  AND   CULTURE   OF  SALISH  683 

system  different  from  that  obtaining  among  those  tribes  that  possess 
the  personal  totem  only.  Wherever  the  group  totems  prevail  we 
find  hereditary  chiefs  and  distinct  castes,  medicine  and  secret  societies, 
family  and  kin  crests,  and  such  like  social  features,  all  or  most  of 
which  find  their  support  and  have  their  rise  in  the  group  or  fraternal 
totem. 

A  study  of  the  kin  or  group  totems  of  the  delta  and  coastal 
Salish  makes  this  very  clear.  As  long  as  the  totem  is  personal  and 
personally  acquired,  it  is  always  regarded  as  an  ever-ready,  active, 
ghostly  helper  to  be  called  on  in  all  emergencies ;  but  when  it  be- 
comes by  inheritance  a  group  or  kin  totem,  we  find  it  losing  its 
active  tutelary  character  and  degenerating  into  what  is  little  more 
than  a  family  crest  or  symbol  of  kinship.  And  this  is  entirely  in 
line  with  the  nature  of  the  kin  or  group  totems  of  the  Haida, 
Tsimshian,  and  other  matrilineal  peoples. 

The  totemism,  then,  of  the  Salish,  besides  being  extremely  in- 
teresting in  itself,  is  of  interest  and  value  also  in  confirming  the  views 
commonly  held  by  students  of  this  country,  and  leaves  no  room  for 
doubt  that  the  group  or  kin  totem  is  at  any  rate  here  a  develop- 
ment of  the  earlier  personal  totem. 

But  there  is  another  phase  of  the  question,  which  is  perhaps  the 
most  interesting  of  all,  where  Salish  evidence  is  also  helpful  and 
suggestive.  Students  of  totemism  early  saw  that  a  deep  and  vital 
connection  lay  between  the  doctrine  or  institution  of  totemism  and 
the  system  of.  savage  names.  In  this  country  the  late  Director  of 
the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology  went  so  far  as  to  define  totem- 
ism as  the  "  doctrine  of  naming,"  being  led  to  take  this  view  of  the 
matter  by  the  close  and  intimate  relation  he  perceived  to  exist  be- 
tween names  of  persons  and  groups  and  the  names  of  the  totem 
objects  of  these  persons  and  groups.  As  he  pointed  out,  and  as 
Miss  Alice  C.  Fletcher  had  pointed  out  earlier  (and  to  her  is,  I  think, 
due  the  credit  of  first  recognizing  the  importance  and  the  deep 
significance  of  names  among  the  native  races  of  this  country),  the 
names  among  primitive  races  are  very  different  from  names  among 
sophisticated  peoples.  They  are  not  with  them,  as  customarily  with 
us,  mere  labels  or  vocal  tags  to  distinguish  one  person  or  group 
from  another  ;  they  are  rather  terms  of  relation  and  affiliation  having 


I 


I 


684  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

a  sacred  and  mystic  import  and  are  considered  to  be  as  much  a  part 
and  parcel  of  the  object  bearing  them  as  any  p)ortion  or  character- 
istic of  the  object  itself ;  and  I  am  aware  of  nothing  more  important, 
suggestive,  and  interesting  in  our  studies  of  primitive  culture  than 
this  same  study  of  names.  Indeed,  so  important  have  I  been  led  by 
my  own  studies  to  regard  this  question  that  I  have  ventured  to  sug- 
gest in  my  last  report  that  it  be  treated  as  a  separate  department  of 
anthropological  study  under  the  term  nofnenology ;  and  nothing,  I 
am  convinced,  will  be  found  to  be  more  profitable  and  instructive 
than  inquiry  along  these  lines. 

I  was  unusually  fortunate  in  my  last  year's  field  work  in  pro- 
curing from  an  elderly  Indian  a  body  of  information  bearing  on  the 
name  systems  of  the  Salish,  which,  while  highly  interesting  in  itself, 
helps  us  to  understand  how  the  primitive  mind  regards  names  gener- 
ally. This  information,  which  I  have  given  in  detail,  will  appear  in 
my  next  report. 

In  the  study  of  primitive  man  the  greatest  difficulty  the  sophis- 
ticated student  has  to  contend  with,  I  have  found,  is  the   essential 
difference  of  his  own  from  his  subject's  plane  of  thought  —  in  other 
words,  the  difficulty  to  see  things  from  the  native  point  of  view.     He 
can  make  no  satisfactory  advance  till  he  has  emptied  his  mind  of  all 
its  preconceptions  regarding  primitive  man,  which  more  often  than 
not  are  founded  on  early  misconceptions  and  limited  knowledge  of 
his  life  and  thought.     We  have  been  studying  the  savage  more  or 
less  systematically  for  a  quarter  of  a  century  now,  yet  I  am  con- 
vinced we  are  but  just  beginning  to  know  and  to  understand  him  as 
he  really  is.     Speaking  for  myself,  I  would  like  to  say  that  I  have 
found  nothing  so  helpful  to  me  in  getting  behind  his  eyes  and  behold- 
ing the  universe  from  his  view-point  as  the  study  of  his  names  and 
name  systems. 

I  may  be  permitted  to  observe  here  that  it  is  a  phase  of  his  cul- 
ture not  confined  to  the  primitive  races  of  this  continent,  but  to  be 
met  with,  I  believe,  wherever  unsophisticated  man  is  to  be  found. 
This  also  is  a  point  we  have  but  just  discovered.  Until  the  publi- 
cation of  Spencer  and  Gillen's  works  on  the  tribes  of  central  Aus- 
tralia we  had  no  sure  knowledge  that  the  primitive  races  of  other 
countries  regarded  their  personal  and  group  names  in  the  same  light 


HILL-TOUT]  LANGUAGE  AND  CULTURE   OF  SALISH  68$ 

as  do  our  own  aborigines.  In  their  work  on  the  "  Northern  Tribes 
of  Central  Australia  "  Messrs  Spencer  and  Gillen  have  devoted  a 
chapter  to  names,  and  although  the  information  they  obtained  on 
this  subject  is  general  rather  than  particular,  it  leaves  no  room  for 
doubt  that  the  Australian  savage  holds  views  on  the  "  doctrine  of 
naming  *'  fundamentally  identical  with  those  held  by  our  own 
Indians ;  and  thus,  when  two  peoples  so  physically  dissimilar  and  so 
widely  separated  as  the  black  fellows  of  Australia  and  the  Indians  of 
America  are  found  holding  practically  identical  views  on  this  subject, 
we  are  not  unjustified  in  assuming,  I  think,  that  we  are  dealing  with 
some  fundamental  universal  concept  of  the  primitive  mind,  a  con- 
cept that  has  entered  deeply  into  both  their  religious  and  social 
life. 

It  may  be  of  interest  to  remark  here  that  while  European  stu- 
dents have  recognized  with  ourselves  the  close  connection  that 
exists  between  primitive  names  and  totemism,  they  do  not  view  this 
connection  from  our  point  of  view.  Rejecting  personal  totemism  as 
the  basis  and  origin  of  group-totemism,  they  are  debarred  from 
looking  for  the  origin  of  totem-group  names  in  the  personal  totem 
names  of  some  of  the  ancestors  of  the  groups  or  kins  as  we  are 
naturally  led,  and  as  the  evidence  directs  us,  to  do.  They  have  to 
account  for  these  names  in  some  other  way.  Within  the  last  two 
years  two  different  theories  of  the  origin  of  totem-group  names  have 
been  put  forth  by  two  eminent  European  anthropologists  —  one  by 
Dr  Haddon,  the  other  by  Mr  Andrew  Lang.  Both  theories  sup- 
pose these  names  to  come  from  without  the  groups  bearing  them ; 
the  former  suggesting  that  they  arose  from  the  names  of  the  char- 
acteristic foods  of  primitive  human  groups.  Thus  those  living  along 
the  shores  and  those  who  lived  in  the  jungle  would  subsist  in  the 
main  on  different  foods,  the  one,  say,  on  crabs  and  the  other  on 
sago.  These  staples  of  their  larder  they  would  sometimes  exchange, 
and  the  one  group  would  come  in  time  to  be  spoken  of  as  the  "  Crab- 
men"  and  the  other  as  the  "Sago-men.'*  Presently  each  group 
would  recognize  the  appropriateness  of  the  term  as  applied  to  them- 
selves and  would  adopt  it  as  their  group  name.  Later  their  de- 
scendants, when  its  true  origin  had  been  lost,  would  begin  to  look 
upon  themselves  as  related  to  the  animal  or  vegetable  or  other  ob- 


686  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  190S 

ject  whose  names  they  bore,  and  create  myths  to  account  for  this 
relationship.      Thus  would   arise  both  the  groui>- totem   and  the 
group  name.     This,  very  briefly  expressed,  is  Dr  Haddon's  theory. 
Mr  Lang's  is  not  greatly  unlike  it.     He  is  not  wedded  to  any  parti- 
cular view  as  to  the  manner  in  which  the  name  arises,  provided  only 
that  it  comes  from  ivithout  the  group  bearing  it     This  is  an  essential 
feature  of  his  theory.     It  may  arise,  as  Dr  Haddon  suggests,  from 
nicknames,  or  in  any  other  way.     On  the  whole  he  favors  the  nick- 
name origin  himself  and  offers  some  interesting  imformation  on  the 
origin  of  village  nicknames  as  found  in  England  and  on  the  con- 
tinent of  Europe.     But,  however  it  arises,  those  to  whom  it  is  ap- 
plied come  in  time  to  adopt  it  and  regard  it  as  peculiarly  their  own. 
Later,  as  in  Dr  Haddon's  theory,  when  the  true  origin  of  the  name 
has  been  forgotten,  a  mythical  origin  is  given  to  it  and  the  object 
from  which  the  name  is  taken  is  held  to  be  related  to  the  group  and 
becomes  the  group  totem  and  the  source  of  the  g^oup  name. 

I  have  elsewhere  recorded  the  objection  which  arises  in  my  mind 
against  these  theories.*  I  will  only  say  here  that  both  these  views 
of  the  origin  of  totem-group  names  wholly  neglect  to  recognize  the 
deep  inner  meaning  names  have  in  the  mind  of  primitive  man,  and 
conflict  with  the  data  on  this  head  which  I  have  gathered  from  the 
Salish  and  which  Messrs  Spencer  and  Gillen  obtained  from  the 
Australians. 

We  know  beyond  question  that  the  source  of  personal  names 
among  many  American  tribes  is  the  personal  totem,  and  it  would  ap- 
pear to  be  the  same  in  Australia.  Among  the  interior  Salish  tribes 
the  personal  totem  is  the  commonest  source  of  the  personal  name. 
We  know,  too,  that  the  personal  totem  can  be  transmitted  and  be- 
come an  hereditary  family  or  kin  totem.  What,  then,  is  more  reason- 
able than  to  conclude  that  the  totem-group  name  is  the  transmitted 
totem  name  of  the  founder,  or  of  some  other  prominent  ancestor,  of 
the  group,  as  the  Indians  themselves  believe  ? 

Whether  my  exposition  of  Salish  culture,  and  particularly  my 
presentation  of  the  data  bearing  on  totemism,  will    persuade  our 


»  Totemism  :  A  consideration  of  its  Origin  and  Import ;    Trans,   Royal  Society  of 
Canada y  Second  series,  vol.  ix,  sec.  11,  1903-04. 


HILL-TOUT]         LANGUAGE  AND  CULTURE    OF  SALISH  68/ 

European  colleagues  to  accept  the  American  view,  I  cannot  say ; 
but  I  trust  this  short  account  of  my  studies  has  made  it  clear  that 
the  field  of  ethnological  inquiry  offered  by  the  various  divisions  of 
the  Salish  is  one  of  the  most  interesting  and  instructive  to  which  we 
can  devote  attention. 

Abbotsford, 

British  Columbia. 


RUST]  THE    OBSIDIAN  BLADES   OF  CALIFORNIA  689 

blades  as  tribal  property,  and  in  one  case  I  found  it  impossible  to 
persuade  the  holder  to  part  with  the  one  in  his  possession  at  any  price. 

One  old  Indian,  living  alone  in  abject  poverty,  exacted  a  promise 
that  I  would  not  tell  his  neighbors  that  I  had  bought  his  blade.  He 
said  :  "  Now  they  call  me  rich.  If  they  know  I  sell  him,  they 
say  *  He  poor  Indian  —  no  account.*"  The  promise  was  given 
and  his  reputation  for  wealth  and  honor  saved. 

Another  piece  was  obtained  from  an  Indian  who  had  adopted  the 
white  man's  dress  and  customs  and  cared  no  more  for  the  Indian 
dance.  He  showed  me  a  fine  blade,  and  said  :  *'  My  father  he  big 
chief.  He  have  this  one ;  I  no  sell  him.  My  wife  her  father  he 
big  chief  too  ;  she  got  him  sword;  I  sell  you  hers.**  Recognizing 
the  husband's  right  to  the  wife's  property  I  bought  the  implement. 

When  inquiries  were  made  as  to  the  use  of  these  objects  it  was 
learned  from  all  informants  that  they  were  for  ceremonial  purposes. 
They  were  carried  in  the  dance  as  a  wand  or  badge  of  distinction, 
indicating  rank  and  wealth.  They  were  used  to  mark  time  in  the 
dance  and  to  gesticulate  in  speaking. 

From  what  was  seen  and  learned  among  these  Indians  of  northern 
California,  it  would  appear  that  the  larger  so-called  spearheads, 
which  are  well  known  from  different  parts  of  the  country,  may  have 
been  made  and  used  for  a  similar  purpose.  Sometimes  they  were 
mounted  on  a  short  stick  and  used  in  a  similar  way.  One  such 
was  obtained  from  a  Klamath  Indian,  its  stone  head  being  about  four 
inches  and  the  stick  or  handle  eighteen  inches  long.  Subsequently 
a  blade  similar  in  size  and  form  has  been  found  by  the  author  in 
use  during  an  eagle  dance  of  the  Mission  Indians  of  San  Diego 
county.  This  was  mounted  on  a  handle  of  hard  wood,  which  was 
ornamented  with  bits  of  abalone  shell  set  in  asphaltum  and  wound 
about  with  a  strip  of  shell  beads.  This  object  was  used  in  a  man- 
ner similar  to  that  of  the  obsidian  blades  of  northern  California. 
Similarly  shaped  implements  of  bone  have  often  been  found  in  grave 
deposits  on  the  California  coast. 

South  Pasadena, 
California. 


1 


1 


690  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Notes  by  A.  L.  Kroeber 

The  Indians  referred  to  in  Mr  Rust's  paper  are  in  or  near  northern 
Humboldt  county  and  belong  to  the  quite  distinctly  specialized  north- 
western culture  area  of  California.  On  the  lower  Trinity  are  the 
Hupa,  and  on  the  Klamath  below  the  confluence  of  the  Trinity,  the 
Yurok.  On  the  Klamath  above  the  mouth  of  the  Trinity  are  the 
Karok.  Other  tribes  or  groups  in  this  region  also  possessed  ob- 
sidian blades,  attached  a  high  value  to  them,  and  used  them  cere- 
monially, but  it  is  only  the  three  tribes  mentioned  that  practised 
the  white  deerskin  dance  of  which  the  use  of  these  blades  is  partic- 
ularly characteristic.  The  subject  has  been  briefly  written  about 
by  Stephen  Powers^  whose  statements  are  in  the  main  correct.  Dr 
P.  E.  Goddard  has  also  treated  of  the  subject,  with  plates  showing 
the  implements  in  use.* 

Two  specimens  in  the  Museum  of  the  Department  of  Anthro- 
pology of  the  University  of  California  are  shown  in  the  accompany- 
ing plate  XLi.  The  larger  (cat.  no.  1-1327)  is  13  inches  long  and 
of  black  obsidian.  The  smaller  (cat.  no.  1-1542)  is  10  inches  in 
I  length  and  of  deep  red  obsidian.     It  shows  the  finer  finish  of  the 

two,  though  this  is  not  brought  out  in  the  illustration.  The  slight 
narrowing  of  this  piece  at  the  middle  should  be  noted,  being  a  feature 
found  both  in  black  and  red  specimens,  though  the  unconstricted 
form  of  the  larger  black  specimen  is  probably  more  common.  Al- 
most all  the  blades  are  of  these  two  colors,  though  black  specimens 
not  infrequently  show  colorless  almost  transparent  streaks  or 
mottlings  which  by  reflected  light  look  gray.  The  value  of  the 
pieces  lies  chiefly  in  their  length ;  secondarily  in  the  degree  of  per- 
fection of  the  material  and  finish.  The  black  are  usually  consider- 
ably longer,  but  length  for  length  the  red  are  of  greater  value. 
They  are  also  less  common.  A  red  blade  15  or  18  inches  long  is 
extremely  rare  and  valuable,  while  there  are  black  ones  more  than 
30  inches  long.  Blades  of  a  third  material  are  also  occasionally 
seen.  These  are  made  of  a  white  flinty  stone  lacking  both  the 
luster  and  translucence  of  obsidian.     This  white  material  seems  not 


*  Tribes  of  California y  p.  52,  79. 

*  University  of  California  Publications^  American  Arc/uroloQ'  and  Ethnology^  vol. 
i>  P'  83,  84,  with  plates  4  and  30. 


dill)  an  in  p^sHUiDnTH.  ]^"ru»^ 


RUST]  THE  OBSIDIAN  BLADES  OF  CALIFORNIA  69 1 

to  be  scarce,  as  many  small  blades  made  of  it  can  be  found ;  but  it 
is  probably  difficult  to  work  into  larger  pieces,  for  but  few  can  be 
seen  and  these  are  very  highly  valued.  At  best  the  white  flint 
blades  lack  the  beautiful  regularity  of  chipping  which  the  obsidian 
so  readily  takes  in  the  hands  of  an  expert  workman.  The  white 
blades  are  also  usually  much  broader  in  proportion  to  their  length 
than  the  obsidian  ones.  All  the  obsidian  used  by  the  tribes  of  this 
region  comes  from  up  the  Klamath  river  and  no  doubt  has  its  origin 
in  the  deposits  in  the  region  of  the  headwaters  of  this  stream.  Both 
the  specimens  illustrated  were  obtained  at  Weitchpec,  a  Yurok  village 
at  the  confluence  of  the  Klamath  and  Trinity  rivers. 

When  in  use  at  a  dance  the  blades  have  a  strip  of  cloth  or  buck- 
skin tied  around  them,  as  described  by  Mr  Rust. 

Like  most  of  the  more  valuable  property  of  these  Indians,  the 
obsidian  blades  are  not  destroyed  at  the  owner's  death  or  buried 
with  him,  but  transmitted  to  the  heirs.  Social  rank,  which  is  de- 
pendent almost  entirely  on  wealth,  passes  from  father  to  son  only  if 
property  is  inherited.  Strictly  the  ownership  of  these  blades  is  purely 
personal ;  but  a  certain  claim  or  lien  of  persons  possessing  no  title 
to  them  is  recognized,  as  indicated  by  Mr  Rust  in  his  statements 
concerning  tribal  ownership.  The  chief  opportunity  for  the  display 
of  wealth  is  at  dances.  The  more  important  of  these  are  held  only 
at  certain  villages,  but  are  always  participated  in  by  the  people  of 
other  villages.  The  dances  are  performed  by  two  or  more  parties, 
which  aim  to  outdo  one  another  in  the  display  of  wealth.  At  a 
dance  held  at  a  certain  village  a  certain  man  is  usually  recognized 
as  the  principal  person  or  organizer  of  a  party  ;  but  generally  only 
a  small  part  of  the  valuables  displayed  by  his  party  are  actually  his 
property,  the  remainder  being  contributed  by  his  wealthy  friends 
living  in  other  villages.  In  return,  when  a  dance  is  held  at  a  vil- 
lage where  one  of  his  friends  is  looked  upon  as  the  principal  man 
of  a  dancing  party,  he  is  expected  by  the  latter  to  bring  or  send  his 
property,  and  failure  to  do  so  is  deeply  resented.  In  this  way  fam- 
ilies living  in  villages  many  miles  apart,  and  perhaps  entirely  unre- 
lated even  by  intermarriage,  are  often  connected  from  generation  to 
generation  by  close  ties  of  friendship  and  mutual  help,  and  the  obli- 
gation of  one  to  the  other  is  clearly  recognized     A  man  disposing 

AM*  ANTHR.,  N.  S.,  7-46. 


692  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

of  a  well-known  blade  would  thus  make  himself  liable  not  only  to 
incur  the  ill  will  of  such  friends,  but  to  forfeit  their  support  when  he 
most  needed  it  to  maintain  his  honor  and  station  in  life. 

At  the  same  time  the  blades,  especially  those  not  of  the  largest 
size,  are  not  necessarily  handed  down  in  one  family  from  generation 
to  generation.  On  account  of  their  high  value  they  are  not  infre- 
quently used  commercially,  as  in  the  purchase  of  a  wife  or  in  the 
payment  for  murder.  In  such  cases  they  pass  completely  out  of 
the  control  of  the  family  formerly  possessing  them. 

The  right  of  the  husband  to  dispose  of  his  wife's  property  would 
scarcely  be  recognized  by  these  Indians.  It  is  not  uncommon  that 
a  woman  personally  inherits  obsidian  blades,  woodpecker-scalp  orna- 
ments, dentalia,  or  other  valuable  property.  In  so  far  as  this  is  of 
a  kind  available  for  ceremonial  use,  it  is  naturally  put  at  her  hus- 
band's disposal  on  occasion  ;  but  her  ownership  seems  to  be  clearly 
established.  It  is  probable  that  in  the  instance  mentioned  the  man 
was  either  selling  the  blade  with  his  wife's  knowledge  and  consent 
and  for  her,  or  without  her  knowledge  and  contrary  to  right. 

The  use  of  the  blades  at  dances  is  correctly  stated  by  Mr  Rust 
and  has  been  described  by  Dr  Goddard  in  the  monograph  cited,  but 
may  be  amplified  by  a  few  statements.  The  recognized  major  dances 
of  the  Yurok,  Karok,  and  Hupa  are  what  are  popularly  known  as 
the  white  deerskin  dance  and  the  woodpecker  or  jumping  dance. 
In  the  latter  of  these  the  obsidian  blades  are  not  known  to  be  used. 
In  the  white  deerskin  dance  the  performers  stand  in  line  holding  the 
white  and  other  deerskins  for  which  the  ceremony  is  named.  In 
the  middle  of  the  line  stands  the  singer.  At  both  ends  of  the  line 
are  two  men,  without  deerskins.  At  certain  stages  of  the  song  these 
advance  toward  each  other,  dancing  in  front  of  the  line,  and  ex- 
change places.  As  they  do  this,  each  carries  a  blade,  extended  for- 
ward and  somewhat  aloft,  as  if  he  would  display  it  as  conspicuously 
as  possible.  The  two  blades  used  at  one  time  are  matched  as  nearly 
as  possible.  At  some  stages  of  the  dance  red  blades  are  carried,  at 
others  black  ones.  During  the  earlier  songs  the  smaller  and  less 
valuable  blades  are  always  used ;  at  the  last  song  the  largest  of  all. 
A  red  and  a  black  blade  would  not  be  carried  at  the  same  time.  It 
is  by  no  means  necessary  that  the  two  blades  used  together  actually 


RUST]  THE   OBSIDIAN  BLADES   OF  CALIFORNIA  693 

form  a  pair  or  belong  to  the  same  man,  though  this  is  not  infrequent. 
In  fact  the  smaller  blades  quite  commonly  come  in  pairs,  though  in 
proportion  as  their  size  is  greater  this  is  more  rare.  The  dancers 
carrying  the  blades — and  this  statement  applies  to  other  ceremonial 
objects  of  value  as  well  —  are  not  the  owners.  These  are  usually 
elderly  men,  who  supervise  and  order  the  dance,  but  do  not  them- 
selves take  part  in  it,  the  dancers  being  young  or  sometimes  middle- 
aged  men. 

A  less  elaborate  and  important  ceremony  than  the  white  deer- 
skin and  jumping  dances  is  the  brush  or  medicine  dance,  which 
differs  in  being  held  for  an  individual  instead  of  the  community  or 
tribe ;  in  being  of  shorter  duration ;  and  in  being  capable  of  being 
observed  at  any  time  or  place.  Less  valuable  paraphernalia  are  also 
used  in  connection  with  it,  and  this  applies  to  the  obsidian  blades. 
The  smaller  or  medium  sized  blades  are  sometimes  brought  out  at 
this  dance,  though  this  does  not  seem  to  be  a  necessary  rule  or  an 
established  custom.  The  largest  blades  are  not,  however,  used  in 
connection  with  this  dance,  which  would  be  considered  too  insignifi- 
cant for  such  an  act.  On  the  other  hand,  the  small  blades  of  only 
a  few  inches  in  length,  mentioned  by  Mr  Rust,  which  are  not  of 
sufficient  size  to  be  carried  by  themselves,  but  are  mounted  on  sticks, 
are  used  at  the  brush  dance.  These,  on  account  of  their  small 
value,  would  not  be  displayed  at  the  more  important  dances.  Usually 
these  small  mounted  blades,  which  may  be  of  red  or  black  obsidian 
or  of  white  or  colored  flint,  are  decorated  with  a  few  feathers  or  bits 
of  buckskin  at  the  mounting.  Plate  4  of  the  work  of  Dr  Goddard 
referred  to  shows  a  Hupa  holding  such  a  small  mounted  blade. 
As  a  matter  of  fact  the  use  of  these  small  mounted  blades  seems  to 
have  been  comparatively  limited  in  purely  aboriginal  times.  Many 
that  are  now  found  in  the  hands  of  the  Indians,  or  have  come  into 
collections  or  museums,  have  been  made  for  sale.  Some  of  these 
small  blades  themselves  are  undoubtedly  old,  but  the  handles  and 
mounting  in  almost  all  instances  that  have  been  seen  are  modem 
and  gaudy,  and  in  many  cases  the  blades  themselves  have  quite  ob- 
viously been  rudely  chipped  from  splinters  or  masses  of  obsidian  with 
so  little  attempt  at  finish  or  form  that  it  may  be  doubted  whether 
any  Indian  would  not  be  ashamed  to  acknowledge  their  ownership 


I 


I! 


694  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  190* 

or  exhibit  them  at  a  purely  native  dance.  Often  the  small  blades 
which  are  generally  from  4  to  5  or  6  inches  long,  differ  from  the 
large  ones  in  being  pointed  only  at  one  end,  the  butt  being  broughi 
to  a  square  edg^  for  insertion  in  a  handle. 

Obsidian  implements  somewhat  similar  to  these  of  the  north- 
western tribes  have  been  found  in  most  parts  of  California.     Thost 
from  the  Santa  Barbara  island  and  mainland  region  resemble  those 
discussed  in  the  present  paper  in  their  degree  of  finish  and  the  regu- 
larity of  their  chipping.     They  differ  from  them  in  shap>e,  however, 
being  not  double-ended,  but  with  only  one  point,  the  opposite  end 
being  either  convexly  or  concavely  rounded.     Such   pieces  may  be 
found  in  many  museums  and  have  been  well  illustrated  in  volume 
VII  of  the  Wheeler  Survey.     In  most  other  parts  of  the  state  the 
obsidian  blades  are  double-ended  like  those  from   the   northwest, 
but  are  rarely  more  than  from  6  to  1 2  inches  long,  and  are  on  the 
whole  very  much  rougher  than  those  from  the  northwest.     Even 
where  they  show  a  tolerably  regular  outline  they  lack  the  symmetiy 
and  beautifully  retouched  edge  characteristic  of  the  northwestern 
blades.     As  to  their  use,  other  than  the  one  instance  from  southern 
California  mentioned  by  Mr  Rust,  nothing  appears  to  be  actually 
known.     That  they  were  not  used  exactly  like  the  blades  of  the 
northwestern  tribes  is  certain,  for  the  majority  of  the  Indians  of  the 
state  not  only  lacked  the  northwestern  dances  at  which  these  blades 
were  used,  but  conducted  their  dances  in  a  generally  quite  different 
manner.     On  the  other  hand,  it  would  appear  from  statements  of  the 
Indians  of  several  parts  of  California  that  their  use  of  such  blades  \v^ 
primarily  ceremonial,  though  rather  with  a  personal  function,  in  the 
nature  of  charms  or  shamanistic  objects,   than  at  public   dances. 
Statements  to  this  effect  have  been  made  to  the  author  by  the  Yuki 
Indians  of  the  northem  Coast  Range  and  by  the  Yokuts  of  the  San 
Joaquin  valley.     The  fact  that  the  larger  obsidian  blades  from  the 
territory  of  these  Indians  and  from  adjacent  regions  are  usually 
double-ended,  seems  also  to  be  an  argument  corroborating  their 
ceremonial  rather  than  their  technological  use. 

The  blades  from  northwestern  Califomia  are  not  particularly 
scarce  in  spite  of  their  value,  and  many  museums  contain  specimens. 
There  is  a  large  collection  of  them  in  the  Peabody  Museum.     Al- 


RUST]  THE   OBSIDIAN  BLADES  OF  CALIFORNIA  695 

most  all  of  those  that  have  been  secured  are,  however,  black.  An 
idea  of  the  value  of  these  blades  among  the  Indians,  and  this  value 
is  not  likely  to  have  increased  in  the  last  fifty  years,  may  be  obtained 
from  the  fact  that  they  are  generally  reckoned  as  worth  a  dollar  per 
inch  of  length.  This  is,  however  only  a  rough  approximation. 
Blades  less  than  6  or  8  inches  long  would  be  held  at  a  lower  ratio. 
Beginning  with  blades  from  1 2  to  1 5  inches  in  length  to  those  still 
larger  the  ratio  rises.  A  good  blade  20  inches  long  would  rarely 
be  parted  with  by  its  owner  for  fifty  dollars,  while  one  30  inches  in 
length  is  practically  invaluable.  Considerable  allowance  is  made 
for  the  quality  of  material  and  workmanship,  the  red  blades  probably 
being  considered  at  least  half  as  valuable  again  as  the  black  ones. 
These  obsidian  blades  of  the  Indians  of  northwestern  California 
have  been  called,  and  in  a  measure  are,  sacred.  Nevertheless  the 
term  can  be  applied  to  them  only  qualifiedly.  They  are  primarily 
objects  of  wealth.  Their  display  in  important  ceremonies,  their 
preciousness,  and  the  general  disposition  of  these  Indians  to  connect 
exhibitions  of  wealth  and  ceremonies,  give  to  these  objects  certain 
associations  of  a  religious  nature.  They  do  not,  however,  appear  to 
be  sacred  in  the  same  sense  in  which  a  small  class  of  other  objects, 
such  as  certain  pipes,  fire-sticks,  and  similar  ceremonial  parapher- 
nalia, which  are  used  in  a  purely  ritualistic  way  and  whose  value 
lies  entirely  in  this  ritualistic  and  traditionary  use,  are  sacred.  Like 
the  white  deerskins  and  woodpecker-scalp  ornaments,  the  obsidian 
blades  are  not  used  directly  in  connection  with  any  of  the  sacred 
formulas  around  which  the  deeper  religious  life  of  these  Indians 
clusters.  There  seems  also  to  be  very  little  and  probably  no  sense 
of  their  being  charms  or  objects  with  a  fetish  or  medicine  or 
animistic  power.  They  are  thus  sacred  in  a  very  different  sense 
from  the  objects  belonging  to  an  altar  of  the  Pueblo  Indians,  or 
from  the  objects  contained  in  a  sacred  bundle  of  the  Plains  Indians. 
Their  general  position  in  the  ceremonies  and  social  life  of  the  In- 
dians of  northwestern  California  resembles  more  nearly  that  of  the 
coppers  of  the  Indians  of  the  North  Pacific  coast. 


BOOK  REVIEWS 

The  Bontoc  Igorot.  By  Albert  Ernest  Jenks.  Department  of  the  In- 
terior. Ethnological  Survey  Publications.  Volume  I.  Manila: 
Bureau  of  Public  Printing,  1905.      226  pp.,  154  pi.,  9  figs. 

On  July  17,  1905,  Dr  Albert  Ernest  Jenks,  chief  of  the  Ethnological 
Survey  for  the  Philippines,  tendered  his  resignation  of  that  office,  which 
he  had  occupied  since  October,  1903,  having  previously  held  subordinate 
positions,  to  the  first  of  which  he  was  appointed  from  the  Bureau  of 
American  Ethnology  in  Washington.  The  cause  of  his  retirement  was 
ill  health,  making  return  to  America  imperative.  The  excellent  work 
done  by  the  Bureau  was  in  evidence  at  the  St  Louis  Exposition,  where, 
besides  the  exhibit  of  living  peoples  of  the  Philippines,  a  collection  ^of 
some  18,000  ethnological  specimens  was  on  display.     Tlie  publications 

j  of  the  Bureau  were  planned  to  cover  five  volumes,  as  follows  :    Vol.  i, 

The  Bontoc  Igorot  (A.  E.  Jenks)  ;  vol.  11,  pt.  i.  The  Negritos  of  Zam- 

i  bales  (W.  A.  Reed)  ;  vol.  11,  pt.  11,  The  Nabloi  Dialect  (O.  Scheerer) ; 

vol.  II,  pt.  Ill,  The  Batak  of  Palawan  (E.  Y.  Miller)  ;   vol.   iii,  Augus- 

j  tinian  Relations,  Spanish  Edition  (Father  A.  Perez)  ;  also  English  editi(»i 

of  same ;  vol.  iv,  pt.  i,  Studies  in  (Maguindanao)  Moro  History,  Law 
and  Religion  (N.  M.  Saleeby)  ;  vol.  iv,  pt.  11,  Studies  in  (Sulu)  Moro 
History,  etc.  ;  vol.  v,  pt.  i,  The  Tinglayan  Igorot  (D.  Folkmar)  ;  vol.  v, 
pt.  II,  The  Subano  People  (E.  B.  Christie).  Judging  by  the  monographs 
already  published  these  volumes  will  add  immensely  to  our  knowledge  of 
primitive  peoples,  their  languages,  social  and  political  institutions,  religion, 
and  folk-lore. 

The  ten  chapters  of  the  initial  volume  on  the  Bontoc  Igorot  by  Dr 
Jenks  treat  the  following  topics :  The  Igorot  culture  group,  the  Bontoc 
culture  group,  general  social  life,  economic  life,  political  life  and  control, 
war  and  head-hunting,  esthetic  life,  religion,  mental  life,  language.  The 
illustrations  (physical  types,  human  activities,  implements,  ornaments, 
etc. )  are  from  photographs  and  deserve  high  praise  both  from  the  artistic 
and  from  the  ethnological  point  of  view.  The  data  here  published  were 
collected  during  investigations  in  1902-03,  lasting  altogether  some  eight 
months,  and  give  us  a  remarkably  good  idea  of  the  Igorot  as  he  now  exists 
in  Bontoc,  *'  a  typical  primitive  Malayan.'* 

696 


I  ; 


BOOK  REVIEWS  697 

As  in  his  previous  writings,  Dr  Jenks  holds  (p.  81)  that  "grades  of 
culture  of  primitive  peoples  may  be  determined  by  the  economic  standard 
better  than  by  any  other  single  standard,"  but,  one  may  add,  any  single- 
standard  test  is  of  doubtful  wisdom.  The  Bontoc  Igorot  of  to-day  could 
not  live  for  two  weeks  by  '* natural  production";  indeed,  ** it  is  doubt- 
ful whether  at  any  time  they  could  have  depended  for  even  as  much  as  a 
day  in  a  week  on  the  natural  foods  of  the  Bontoc  culture  area."  Their 
culture  is  fundamentally  neither  venatorial  nor  piscatorial,  but  agricul- 
tural —  **  in  agriculture  the  Igorot  has  reached  his  highest  development ; 
on  agriculture  hangs  his  claim  to  the  rank  of  barbarian  —  without  it  he 
would  be  a  savage."  Here  thrives  his  religion, also,  for  ''all  Bontoc 
agricultural  labors,  from  the  building  of  the  sementera  to  the  storing  of 
the  gathered  harvest,  are  accompanied  by  religious  ceremonials. ' '  Some 
of  these  are  quite  elaborate  and  "  some  occupy  a  week's  time,"  but  there 
is  also  ''  great  absence  of  formalism  in  uttering  ceremonies ;  scarcely  two 
persons  speak  exactly  the  same  words,  though  I  believe  the  purport  of 
each  ceremony,  as  uttered  by  two  people,  to  be  the  same."  This  **  loose- 
ness," Dr  Jenks  thinks  (p.  207),  may  be  due  in  part  to  the  "absence of 
a  developed  cult  having  the  ceremonies  in  charge  from  generation  to 
generation."  The  Bontoc  have  a  sacred  or  rest  day  called  T6ng-a6, 
"  occurring  on  an  average  of  about  every  ten  days  throughout  the  year, 
though  there  appears  to  be  no  definite  regularity  in  its  occurrence," 
and  on  this  day  work  in  the  fields  b  forbidden.  The  importance 
of  "head-hunting"  among  the  Bontoc  is  revealed  by  the  fact  that 
na-md'ka  (take  heads)  is  a  synonym  of  en-fa-lok-net  (war) — Miss 
Margaretta  Morris,  in  her  studies  of  the  Kayans  and  Dyaks  of  Borneo,  has 
already  called  attention  to  the  influence  of  war  and  agriculture  on  primi- 
tive religion,  morals,  and  ethics  in  the  case  of  peoples  who  both  till  the 
soil  and  practise  war.  It  is  in  war  as  well  as  in  toil  and  ceremonial  that 
the  Bontoc  man  "  works  off  his  superfluous  and  emotional  energy,"  and 
"his  head-hunting  offers  him  the  greatest  game  of  skill  and  chance 
which  primitive  man  has  invented." 

War  was  invented,  the  Bontoc  say,  by  Lumawig,  the  highest  figure 
in  their  mythology,  whom  Dr  Jenks  regards  as  a  personification  of 
the  forces  of  nature  —  "the  personification  has  become  a  single  per- 
son, and  to-day  this  person  is  one  god,  Lu-ma-wig,"  over  all  and 
eternal.  Lumawig  resembles  much  the  culture-heroes  of  the  American 
aborigines,  even  as  to  certain  silly  or  reprehensible  actions,  apparently. 
After  his  work  was  ended,  Lumawig  went  up  into  the  sky  where  he  "is 
still  the  friendly  god  of  the  Igorot,  and  is  the  force  in  all  the  things  with 


698  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOL  OGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

which  he  originally  had  to  do.  Although  in  Bon  toe  pueblo  **  the  thought 
of  the  return  of  Lumawig  is  laughed  at/ '  there  is  growing  up  in  some  of 
the  western  pueblos  (Alap,  Balili,  etc.)  a  new  faith,  j>art  of  whose 
creed  is  a  belief  that  Lumawig  will  return  in  the  near  future.  Earlier 
than  the  idea  of  Lumawig  is  the  democratic  belief  in  spirits,  according 
to  which  <'  each  person  or  each  household  has  the  necessary  power  and 
knowledge  to  intercede  with  the  aniio ' ' —  the  nearest  approach  to  a 
priesthood  in  connection  with  spirit-worship  is  **  the  limited  class  of  the 
dream-appointed  insupak  or  am/^-exorcists. ' '  Between  the  people  and 
Lumawig  to-day  stand  three  classes  of  **  religious  intercessors"  (rather 
than  priests),  whose  offices  are  hereditary. 
j  Head-hunting  is  responsible,  according  to  I>r  Jenks,  for  "the  lack 

of  *  color '  and  the  monotony  of  everyday  life ' '  among  the  Igorot,  — 
**  its  somber  hue  as  compared  with  that  of  his  more  advanced  neighbor, 
the  Ilokano. ' '  The  Bontoc  Igorot  is  little  given  to  dress  (movable  adorn- 
ments of  person) — his  great  permanent  decoration  is  the  tattoo his 

musical  implements  are  few  and  simple  (many  of  the  songs  are  wordless; 
dances  are  always  to  gong-music)  ;  the  common  pastimes  and  games  of 
chance  are  absent  (cock-fighting  and  head-hunting  take  their  place);  he 
**has  almost  no  formalities  ('etiquette,'  'form,'  etc.)."  In  discussing 
the  mental  life  of  the  Igorot,  Dr  Jenks  remarks  that,  besides  the  "rude, 
shrewd  sense, '  *  which  Tylor  attributes  to  primitive  man,  *  *  he  has  more, 
he  has  practical  wisdom."  Another  statement  is  rather  surprising,  and 
more  extended  study  and  investigation  may  somewhat  diminish  its  force 

—  **  the  paucity  of  the  purely  mental  life  of  the  Igorot  is  nowhere  more 
clearly  shown  than  in  the  scarcity  of  folk-tales."  The  Igorot  story-tel- 
lers, too,  generally  ''present  the  bare  facts  in  a  colorless  and  lifeless 
manner  "  (p.  221). 

The  government  and  control  of  the  pueblo,  with  the  exception  of  the 
Spanish -made  "  presidente  "  and  "  vice-presidente,"  are  purely  aboriginal 
and  simply  democratic,  no  man  or  group  of  men  exercising  real  control 

—  the  intugtukany  or  group  of  old  men,  "  is  a  thoroughly  democratic 
group  of  men,  since  it  is  composed  of  all  the  old  men  in  the  ato^  no  mat- 
ter how  wise  or  foolish,  rich  or  poor  —  no  matter  what  the  man's  social 
standing  may  be"  (p.  167).  This  intugtukan  "has  no  elective  organi- 
zation, no  suj)eriors  or  inferiors,"  and  it  perpetuates  itself  by  calling  to 
itself  individuals  for  counsel.  The  wisdom  of  the  intugtukan  **is  re- 
spected to  the  degree  that  it  is  regularly  sought  and  is  accepted  as  final 
judgment,  being  seldom  ignored  or  dishonored."  The  chief  crimes  de- 
nounced by  the  Igorot  are  "  theft,  lying  to  shield  oneself  in  some  crim- 


BOOK  REVIEWS  699 

inal  act,  assault  and  battery,  adultery,  and  murder.  * '     Various  tests  or 
ordeals  (rice-chewing,  hot-water,' egg,  blood)  are  in  vogue. 

In  the  economic  life  of  the  Igorot  basketry  and  pottery  play  a  prime 
rdle —  **  were  basketry  and  pottery  cut  from  the  list  of  his  productions, 
the  Igorot*  s  everyday  labors  would  be  performed  with  bare  hands  and 
crude  sticks"  (p.  114).  Woman  is  potter  here,  man  basket-maker. 
The  Igorot  has  few  and  relatively  simple  weapons  (the  tiny  bow  is  a  toy 
for  children,  not  a  warrior's  weapon).  As  to  fire -making,  the  interesting 
fact  is  recorded  (p.  133),  "  the  oldest  instrument  for  fire-making  used  by 
the  Bontoc  Igorot  is  now  seldom  found ;  however,  practically  all  boys  of  a 
dozen  years  know  how  to  make  it  and  use  it."  The  section  on  the  di- 
vision of  labor,  distribution  of  products,  consumption  of  food,  etc. ,  ought 
to  be  of  value  to  modem  economical  theorists;  also  the  conclusion 
arrived  at  by  Dr  Jenks  that :  **  The  Igorot  is  not  a  communist,  neither 
in  any  sense  does  he  get  the  monopolist's  share.  He  is  living  a  life  of 
such  natural  production  that  he  enjoys  the  fruits  of  his  labors  in  a  fairer 
way  than  do  many  of  the  men  beneath  him  or  above  him  in  culture  "  (p. 
138).  Upon  the  Igorot  of  Bontoc  "the  Spaniard  left  his  impress  in  no 
realm  probably  more  surely  than  in  that  of  the  appreciation  of  the  real 
value  of  money. ' '  A  universal  medium  of  exchange,  unique  in  the  Phil- 
ippines, according  to  Dr  Jenks,  is  palay  (unthreshed  rice),  but  '*  the 
characteristic  production  of  each  community,  in  a  narrow  way,  answers 
for  the  community  the  needs  of  a  medium  of  exchange.  * ' 

The  Igorot,  too,  **  has  as  clear  a  conception  of  the  relative  value  of 
two  things  bartered  as  has  the  civilized  man  when  he  buys  or  sells  for 
money."  Even  when  the  payment  is  in  coin,  the  bargain  is  made  on  the 
basis  of  the  palay  value  of  the  article  bought  or  sold,  the  standard  of  value 
being  *'  the  sinftnge-i^  the  Spanish  *  manojo',  a  small  bunch  oi palay  tied 
up  immediately  below  the  fruit  heads"  (its  multiples  run  to  1,000). 
The  commercial  activity  of  the  Igorot  Dr  Jenks  divides  into  two  classes, 
one  more  primitive  than  the  other,  and  both  below  the  **  market  idea," 
viz. ,  '  *  irregular  intrusive  commerce, ' '  and  *  *  irregular  invited  commerce.  *  * 
The  Igorot  have  a  clear  idea  of  property  right  (individual,  marital,  etc.). 
The  Bontoc  family  with  few  exceptions  is  monogamous,  with  an  average 
of  about  six  children  (of  twins,  one  is  thought  to  be  the  offspring  of  an 
anito ;  the  breaking  down  of  infanticide  has  begun).  Birth  feasts  and 
ceremonies,  cradles,  definite  systems  of  naming,  etc.,  are  not  in  vogue, 
and  **  the  life  of  little  girls  is  strangely  devoid  of  games  and  playthings  " 
(p.  64), — the  boys  **have  at  least  two  systematic  games,"  both  imita- 
tive of  the  combat  of  the  adults.     There  are  no  feasts  or  rites  to  mark 


!i; 


M 


I. 

I- 


I' 


700  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7, 1905 

puberty,  but,  as  Dr  Jenks  observes,  the  institution  of  the  olAg^  or  house 
of  trial  marriage,  is  "calculated  to  emphasize  the  fact  and  significaDce 
of  puberty,*'  for,  while  primarily  the  sleeping-place  of  all  unmarried 
girls,  "in  the  mind  of  the  people  it  is,  with  startling  consistency, 
the  mating  place  of  the  young  people  of  marriageable  age."  In  spite 
of  such  a  system,  "a  girl  is  almost  invariably  faithful  to  her  tem- 
porary lover,*'  and  "though  there  is  no  such  thing  as  virtue,  in  the 
modern  sense  of  the  word,  among  the  young  people  after  puberty,  chil- 
dren before  puberty  are  said  to  be  virtuous,  and  the  married  woman  is 
said  always  to  be  true  to  her  husband."  This  institution  deserves  nMWC 
detailed  and  careful  study. 

All  diseases  and  ailments,  from  the  least  to  the  severest,  are  attributed 
to  anitosy  except  toothache,  which  is  said  to  be  ''  caused  by  a  small  worm 
twisting  and  turning  in  the  tooth. ' '  Death  is  taken  neither  very  sorrow- 
fully nor  very  passionately.  Blindness,  abnormal  feet,  and  eruptions  of 
the  skin  are  the  most  common  diseases  and  affections  to  which  Igorot  fiesh 
is  heir. 

Taken  altogether,  the  chief  fundamental  differences  between  Bontoc 
culture  and  that  of  the  adjoining  peoples  are  the  absence  of  the  "  head- 
man **  (the  pueblo  is  a  loose  federation  of  smaller  political  groups),  and 
the  institution  of  the  bldg^  or  system  of  "  trial  marriage." 

Of  the  language  of  the  Bontoc  Igorot  Dr  Jenks  informs  us  that  it  is 
sufficiently  distinct  from  all  others  to  be  classed  as  a  separate  dialect, 
i.  e.,  of  the  basal  Malayan -Polynesian.  More  evidence,  however  is 
needed  before  one  can  agree  with  the  argument  of  Mr.  H.  B.  Hulbert 
cited  on  page  227,  that  the  languages  of  Korea,  Formosa,  and  the  Bontoc 
Igorot  belong  together.  In  his  Bontoc  vocabulary  Dr  Jenks  omits  all 
"words  which  represent  ideas  borrowed  of  a  modem  culture  "  (i.  e., 
terms  for  umbrella,  shoe,  chair,  book,  etc.),  — it  seems  to  the  reviewer 
that  the  record  of  just  such  terms,  as  soon  as  possible  after  they  appear, 
is  of  no  little  importance. 

Physically  the  Bontoc  Igorot  have  most  of  the  characteristics  of  the 
primitive  Malay ;  the  men  seem  taller  than  they  really  are,  are  never 
corpulent  and  seldom  **  poor,'*  and  do  not  reach  their  *'  physical  best  '* 
before  20  (but  before  25)  ;  women  mature  at  about  17  or  18.  Both  men 
and  women  tend  to  be  mesaticephalic.  In  Bontoc,  as  elsewhere  in  the 
Malayan  area,  a  few  people  have  curly  or  wavy  hair  (tradition  is  against  its 
Negrito  origin). 

Dr  Jenk's  account  of  the  Bontoc  Igorot  emphasizes  the  necessity  of 
employing  in  ethnologic  research  in  the  Philippines  none  but  able  scien- 


BOOK  REVIEWS  7OI 

tific  workers,  —  for  there  customs  and  institutions  prevail  whose  investi- 
gation needs  deep  sympathy  and  clear  insight  into  the  common  human 
mind,  as  well  as  unprejudiced  perceptions  and  observations  of  its  vagaries 
and  individual  as  well  as  tribal  and  national  idiosyncrasies.  That  the 
author  of  this  book  is  one  of  such  is  quite  apparent,  even  without  his 
graceful  tribute  to  the  Igorot  of  Bon  toe  (p.  15)  and  his  unqualified  expres- 
sion of  belief  in  their  future  development ;  for  they  are  men,  even  as  we 
are  men,  lost  neither  in  body  nor  in  soul,  but  like  enough  to  us  to  be  some 
time  part  of  our  gpreat  human  family  in  its  associate  and  codperative  evo- 
lution. Alexander  F.  Chamberlain. 


A  Universidade  e  a  Nag&o,  Orafdo  inaugural  do  anno  lectivo  de  1904— 
igo^y  recitada  na  sala  grande  dos  actos  da  Universidada  de  Coimbra^ 
no  dia  16  de  outubro  de  1^04.  Por  Bernardino  Machado.  Coimbra : 
Imprensa  da  Universidade,  1904.     19  pp. 

The  subject  of  Professor  Machado' s  inaugural  address  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Coimbra,  October  16,  1904,  was  "  The  University  and  the 
Nation.'*  Anthropologist,  student  of  the  child,  cx-Minister  of  State,  Dr 
Machado  is  peculiarly  well-fitted  to  express  the  trend  of  the  best  educa- 
tional ideas  in  Portugal.  A  patriotic  man  of  science,  he  holds  that  a 
university  ought  to  be,  above  all,  a  school  of  liberty  —  the  fate  of  the 
nation  and  that  of  its  highest  and  noblest  institution  of  learning  are  one. 
But  despotic  education  goes  with  despotic  government.  The  teacher  must 
not  be  a  pontiff,  the  scholar  must  not  be  a  catechumen.  Passive  obedi- 
ence is  no  preparation  for  the  duties  of  life.  The  freedom  of  school  is 
crystallized  in  the  pupil.  We  are  in  the  world  to  learn  the  laws  of  the 
universe,  not  to  execute  at  command  spectacular  prodigies  of  mental  acro- 
batics, but  to  act  as  free  men  and  not  as  manikins,  by  our  will,  through 
all  we  are.  Nor  must  education  be  a  new  method  of  aristocratizing. 
Truth  and  knowledge  are  accessible  to  and  belong  to  all.  Citizens,  not 
princes,  are  now  to  be  educated.  Truth  is  not  to  be  a  mystery,  a  mo- 
nopoly, a  privilege,  an  aristocracy,  but  something  wherewith  to  enrich  the 
common  patrimony  of  all  minds.  Nor  have  the  educated  a  right  to  be  a 
parasitic  caste.  The  university  is  a  laboratory,  a  model  workshop,  where 
teachers  and  students,  as  true  workmen  and  apprentices,  are  occupied  not 
in  consuming  but  in  producing  ideas.  Teachers  and  scholars  are  not  to 
live  in  palace  or  monastery,  shut  up  from  the  rest  of  their  fellows,  not 
knowing,  or  caring,  sometimes,  how  these  live  and  move  and  have  their 
being.     All  are  more  than  men  of  science,  they  are  citizens,  and  mem- 


702  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

bcrs  of  that  threefold  city,  religious,  economic,  and  political,  which  began 
in  the  family,  and  now,  constituting  the  nation,  g^oes  on  its  way  tri- 
umphantly until  it  shall  include  all  mankind.     Teachers  and  pupils  have 
a  religion,  —  the  great  heart  of  man  needs  their  syni|>athetic  beat,  and 
looks  to  them  for  comfort,  consolation,  hope.     Science  has  no  reason  to 
be  heartless.     It  delves  too  deep  into  the  life  of  the  universe  to  be  that 
Men  of  science  have  no  right  to  hold  themselves  aloof  from  the  duties  of 
citizenship  —  workers  themselves,  they  ought  to  strive  to  better  the  eco- 
nomic conditions  of  society  ;  they  ought  to  take  their  places  in  the  ranb 
of  those  who  are  laboring  for  the  amelioration  of  mankind.      Their  faith- 
ful cooperation  in  science  ought  also  to  be  made   manifest  in  society. 
Nor  ought  the  university  to  regard  politics  as  entirely  subverted  by  germs 
of  original  sin,  and  shut  its  members  up  like  monks  in  cynic  elevation 
above  the  most  ordinary  and  most  needful  activities  of  democratic  liberty 
and  life.     For  men  of  science  to  slink  away  from  the  thought  of  public 
life,  of  service  to  their  fellow -citizens,  is  a  base  betrayal  of  their  sacred 
mission.     They  are  not  called  upon  to  be  political  adventurers  ;  it  is  their 
duty  to  be  servants  of  the  people.     To  isolate  the  university,  socially  and 
politically,  is  to  narrow  its  ideals,  to  constrict  its  movements,  and  to  im- 
poverish its  brains  and  their  expression,  thereby  making  it  less  human  and 
diminishing  its   real   educative   rdle.     The  sovereignty    of  knowledge 
belongs  with  the  sovereignty  of  citizenship.     Nor  is  there  any  call  for  the 
divorce  of  religion  and  science.     Faith  of  the  highest  order  is  the  greatest 
servant  of  them  both.     The  moral  sanity  of  mankind  needs  both  for  the 
perfection  of  the  best  ideals  of  the  race.     The  university,  as  a  great  factor 
in  the  progress  of  man,  needs  to  be  above  the  pains  of  penury.     It  should 
be  well -endowed  and  its  members  should  be  sufficiently  recompensed  to 
make  them  not  fear  the  wolf  that  often  lurks  so  near  their  doors.      Thev 
should  also  have  liberty  to  work  as  best  fits  their  capacities  and  their 
genius.     They  ought  not  to  be  so  burdened  with  routine  labors  that  they 
have  no  time  for  consideration  of,  and  participation  in,  the  larger  life  of 
their  community,  of  the  nation.     They  must  not  be  hopelessly  in  the  toils 
of  the  monotonous  repetition  of  the  same  work  which  hypnotizes  and 
amputates  the  soul.     Nor  should  they  be  victims  of  any  depressing  pro- 
fessional subordination,  for  every  branch  of  science  is  homologous,  for  all 
are  brothers.     A  tnie  scientific  fraternity  means  that  each  laborer  shall  in 
his  own  time  reach  the  highest  honor  the  institution  can  bestow,  each,  who 
begins  at  the  lowest,  reach  the  highest  rung  of  the  ladder.     There  is  a 
democracy  of  science  as  well  as  one  of  culture.     Portugal  is  not,  as  many 
suppose,  hopelessly  decadent,  but  awaits  a  brilliant  renaissance.     This 


BOOK  REVIEWS  703 

new  birth  is  being  made  possible  by  the  labors  of  such  men  as  Dr  Machado, 
whose  ideas  and  ideals  are  of  the  noblest  type.  In  1904  Dr  Machado 
published  also  a  new  and  revised  edition  of  his  '^  Notes  about  Children  by  a 
Father'*  {As  crean^as,  Notas  d^une  Pae^  2' ed.,  Coimbra,  1904,  416 
pp. ) ,  which  very  interesting  volume  was  considered  briefly  in  this  journal 
(n.  s.,  IV,  152,  1904),  after  it  first  appeared. 

Alexander  F.  Chamberlain. 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 
Conducted  by  Dr  Alexander  F.  Chamberlain 

[Note. — Authors,  especially  those  whose  articles  apf>ear  in  journals  and  other 
serials  not  entirely  devoted  to  anthropology,  will  greatly  aid  this  department  of  tbc 
American  Anthropologist  by  sending  direct  to  Dr  A.  F.  Chamberlain,  Clark  UnivcrsiiT, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts,  U.  S.  A.,  reprints  or  copies  of  such  studies  as  they  may  desire 
to  have  noticed  in  these  pages.  —  EDITOR.] 


GENERAL 

Adolf  Bastiaily  Ged&chtnisfeier  am  IL 
Mftrz.  1905.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905, 
XXXVII,  233-255,  I  pi.)  Text  of  ad- 
dresses by  Lissauer,  von  den  Steinen, 
von  Richthofen,  and  Waldeyer,  treating 
of  the  life  and  labors  of  Bastian,  the  eth- 
nologist and  anthropological  philosopher. 

BachDer  (M.)  Das  Bumerangwerfen. 
(Globus,  Brnschwg.,  1905,  LXXVlll,  37- 
41,  63-66,  4  fgs. )  Discusses  theory 
and     practice    of    boomerang-throwing 

—  gives  results  of  author's  own  experi- 
ments with  European-made  implements. 
Experiments  with  such  boomerangs  have 
not  solved  the  problem.  Australian 
boomerangs  are  now  made  for  the  trade, 

—  those  genuine  specimens  in  museums 
are  not  obtainable  for  use.  It  is  not  too 
late,  perhaps,  to  seek  from  some  old  Au- 
stralian the  right  knowledge. 

Diergart  (///)  Ueber  die  Bedeutung 
gewisser  Tontechniken  der  NaturvGlken 
fiir  die  technische  Beurteilung  des  anti- 
ken  roten  Terra  sigillata  Glanzes.  (Z. 
f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii,  432- 
433. )  Suggests  the  value  of  the  study 
of  the  red-luster  clay  techniques  of  the 
modern  Orient  and  allied  techni(]ues  of 
certain  primitive  peoples  [f.  jt^.  Central 
and  South  America)  for  the  interpretation 
of  the  ancient  red  ft^rra  sii^il/ata  luster  — 
some  of  the  wares  have  now  lasted  nearly 
200  vears. 

Dodd  (Isabel  YA  The  Archeological 
Congress  at  Athens.  ( Rec.  of  Past, 
Wash.,  1905,  IV,  199-202,  2  figs.) 
lirief  account  of  congress  held  in  April, 
1905,  notices  of  chief  papers,  etc. 


Entlin  (  —  )  Die  Augenver&ndenmgen 
beim  Turmschftdel,  besonders  die  Sch- 
nervenerkrankung.  (A.  f.  Ophthalm., 
Berlin,  1904,  LViii,  151-201,  i  pL,  8 
figs. )  Gives  results  of  obserrations  and 
measurements  of  16  cases  of  afiections  of 
the  optic  nerve,  etc,  conditioned  by  mal- 
formation of  skull  (acrocephaly  caused 
by  premature  synostosis  of  the  coronal 
suture).     Boys  are  chiefly  afTected. 

Farabee  (W.  C.J     Inheritance  of  digital 
malformations   m  man.      (Papers  Peab. 
Mus.  Amer.  Arch,   and  Ethn.,  Cambr., 
Mass.,  1905,  III,  69-77,  5  pl.)     Treats, 
with    tables   of   measurements,    etc., — 
measurements,     tracings,      photographs, 
radiographs,  plaster-casts,  and  complete 
genealogical    tables     were     made,  —  of 
digital  malformations  observed  in  Penn- 
sylvania,   where   **  all   the    digits    of  all 
extremities  of   37   persons    are    affected 
and  the  anomaly   (short   digits)    is   in- 
herited in  conformity  with  Mendel's  law 
for  five  generations."      The  p>eople  are 
otherwise  perfectly  normal,   though    the 
abnormals  seem  to  have  shorter  arms  and 
shorter  stature.     The  abnormality  is  in- 
herited through  both  sexes  ( 58  f>ercent  of 
all  the  descendants  of  males  are  abnormal 
and   42   percent    of  those  of   females). 
This  paper  is  part  of  a  thesis  for  Ph.D. 
in  Anthropology  (Harvard)  on   Heredi- 
tary and  Sexual  Influences  in  Meristic 
Variation. 

Fewkes  (J.  W. )  Climate  and  cult. 
(Trans.  Eighth  Intern.  Geogr.  Congr., 
Wash.,  1905,  664-670.)  Discusses  the 
effect  of  humidity  and  aridity  on  the 
development  of  aboriginal  culture,   par- 


704 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


705 


ticularly  the  desert  region  of  the  S.  W. 
United  States.  G>mpares  the  Pueblo 
region  with  the  well-watered  West 
Indies,  —  in  both  cases  climate  has 
stamped  itself  upon  ritual.  With  the 
Pueblo  Indians  the  sky  god  is  a  rain- 
god  whose  worship  is  dictated  by  the 
arid  climate.  The  West  Indian  sky-god 
b  a  malevolent  being  (incarnation  of  the 
hurricane)  who  is  besought  for  protection. 
Climate  is  responsible  for  likenesses  and 
diversities  in  cults. 

GhaorgOY  ( }•  A. )  Die  ersten  Anf^ge  des 
sprachlichen  Ausdrucks  Hir  das  Selbst- 
bewusstsein  bei  Kindem.  ( A.  f.  d.  Ges. 
Psychol.,  Lpzg.,  1905,  V,  327-404.) 
Discusses  at  length  the  beginnings  of  the 
expression  for  self  in  language  (Bul- 
garian) in  the  two  sons  of  the  author,  a 
professor  in  Sofia.     A  valuable  paper. 

Gray  (J.)  Anthropometric  identification  : 
a  new  system  of  classifying  the  records. 
(Man,  Lond.,  1905,  v,  84-86.)  Author 
proposes  "  to  make  the  limits  of  a  com- 
p>artment  movable  instead  of  fixed,  as  in 
the  Bertillon  system,''  and  so  '*  bring  the 
dimensions  of  the  card  to  be  allocated 
always  into  the  center  of  the  limits  of  a 
comp>artment  beyond  the  margins  of  un- 
certainty." 

Gnsinde  (K. )  Einiges  iiber  Rhythmus, 
Wort  und  Weise.  ( Mitt  d.  Schles.  Ges. 
f.  Volksk.,  Breslau,  1905,  iv,  9-22.) 
Treats  of  the  nature  and  origin  of  rhythm, 
melody,  tune  and  text  of  songs.  Rhythm, 
the  beginning  of  all  poetical  develop- 
ment, gradually  dbengaged  itself  from 
being  merely  an  accompaniment  of  work, 
and  later,  after  the  musical  had  been  de- 
veloped the  language  proper  was  added. 
The  melody  of  the  minne-song  blossomed 
out  of  the  Gregorian  church-song.  The 
influence  of  dance-music  and  instrumental 
music  is  noted.  In  folk-song  the  melody 
is  fixed,  the  text  mutable. 

Hdfler  (M. )  Krdte  und  Geb&rmutter. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxviii, 
25-27. )  Author  treats  of  the  living  toad 
as  a  soul-animal  (one  of  the  many  forms 
which  folk-thought  assigns  to  the  human 
soul),  the  body  of  the  toad  as  a  fetish- 
animal  (its  several  immortal  qualities, 
is  reborn  as  human  infant,  etc.),  the  toad 
as  symbol  of  the  uterus,  etc.,  and  the  be- 
liefs connected  with  these  in  the  folk-mind. 
The  dead  dried  toad  becomes  an  amulet, 
then  the  model  of  the  toad,  which  is 
offered  at  altar  or  hung  up  in  churches. 

Karplus  (J.  P. )  Ueber  Familien&hnlich- 
keiten    an    den    Grosshimfurchen    des 


Menschen.  (Arb.  a.  d.  Neurol.  Inst, 
d.  Wiener  Univ.,  1905,  Xii,  I-58,  20 
pis.)  Gives  results  of  author's  investi- 
gations of  86  hemispheres  as  to  family 
resemblances  in  the  sulci  of  the  cere- 
brum.  K.  thinks  that  the  problem  may 
find  an  anatomical  solution. 

Koch-Hesse  ( A. )  £in|Beitrag  zur  Wachs- 
tumsphysiologie  des  Menschen,  Nach 
statistischen  Erhebungen  an  der  Stoy- 
schen  Erziehungsanstalt  in  Jena.  (Z.  f. 
Schlgsdhtspfl.,  Hamburg,  1905,  xviii, 
293-319,  400-416,  457-492.)  Gives 
with  some  detail  of  tables,  curves,  etc., 
the  results  of  the  anthropometric  investi- 
gation of  some  886  pupils  between  5  and 
21  years  of  age.  The  relation  of  stature 
to  age,  relation  of  body-weight  to  age 
and  stature,  and  the  yearly  growth  of  the 
individual  pupil  are  specially  discussed. 
As  a  general  consideration  concerning 
weight,  Dr  K.-H.  concludes  that  evolu- 
tion and  differentiation  go  hand  in  hand ; 
civilized  men  phylogentically  and  on- 
togenetically  are  far  different  from  their 
ancestors,  adults  widely  different  from 
children.  Both  in  somatic  and  in  psy- 
chic evolution  the  tendency  of  the 
growing  individual  to  recapitulate  the 
racial  past  is  actively  crossed  by  the  in- 
fluences of  his  own  time.  Acceleration 
of  growth  in  the  individual  represents 
recapitulation  of  racial  increase,  retarda- 
tion of  growth  recapitulation  of  racial 
diminution. 

Lindsey  (E. )  The  evolution  of  interna- 
tional law.  (Amer.  Law  Rev.,  St. 
Louis,  Mo.,  1905,  XXXIX,  658-674.) 
Author  seeks  to  utilize  for  the  develop- 
ment of  legal  ideas  and  institutions  the 
data  of  anthropological  research.  The 
evolution  of  modem  international  law 
from  primitive  legal  institutions  is  indi- 
cated. Contracts,  war,  arbitration,  etc., 
are  discussed ;  also  the  legal  implica- 
tions of  primitive  clans  and  confedera- 
cies. The  beginnings  of  contract  occur 
early  in  the  personal  conditions  existing 
in  social  organizations  founded  on  kin- 
ship, but  ''only  comparatively  late  in 
legal  history  does  the  mental  engagement 
become  recognized  as  the  essential  ele- 
ment of  contract  as  distinguished  from 
the  ceremonies  of  its  declaration  which 
are  long  the  criterions  of  its  binding 
force,  as  is  still  the  case  with  contracts 
between  nations  in  international  law." 

Lombroso  (Paola)  The  diplomacy  of 
children.  (Grand  Mag.,  Lond.,  1 905, 
II,  329-334.)      Cites  instances  of   the 


7o6 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOI.OGIST 


I",  s.,  7,  i« 


Meddm  Gabler,  TMr^se  Humbert  types 
and  of  deceitful  astuteness  in  boys. 

Mantegou  (P.)  Commemonmooe  del 
Barone  De  Ujfalvy.  (A.  p.  TAntrop., 
Firenze,  1904,  xxxiv,  442-446. )  Brief 
account  of  life  and  scientific  activities 
with  list  of  publications  1 870-1 903. 

Monttiro  ( M. )  Pereira  Caldas.  (Portu- 
galia,  Porto,  1905,  ii,  128.)  Brief  sketch 
and  list  of  chief  works  of  Pereira  Caldas 
(1818-1903),  the  Portuguese  arche- 
ologist  and  epigrapher. 

de  RadidlUc  (  VuomU)  Jean  Francis 
Albert  du  Pouget,  Marquis  de  Nadaillac. 
(Ann.  Arch.  Rep.  1904,  Toronto,  1905, 
1 1 3- 1 1 7,  I  fg. )  Brief  sketch  of  life  and 
scientiiic  activities  by  his  scm. 

Nelson  (  Mabel  L. )  The  difference  be- 
tween men  and  women  in  the  recogni- 
tion of  color  and  the  perception  of  sound. 
(Psychol.  Rev.,  N.  V.,  1905,  XII,  271- 
2S6. )  Results  of  examination  of  20 
men  and  20  women  students  in  the  Uni- 
versity of  California.  As  to  color  men 
are  '*  clearly  superior  in  the  recognition 
of  blue,  women  possibly  in  the  recog- 
nition of  yellow."  As  to  sound,  **  men 
hear  farther  than  women,  and  the  right 
ear  of  both  men  and  women  is  keener 
than  the  lefl." 

Peel  (S.  D. )  The  constellations  and  their 
history.  (Amer.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1905, 
XXVII,  17-32,  6  figs.)  Discusses  the 
questions  of  resemblances  between  the 
ideas  of  the  constellations  in  Egypt  and 
America,  traces  of  totem  system  in 
ideas  of  constellations,  shape  and  num- 
ber of  constellations,  names  of  constel- 
lations, etc.     No  new  data. 

Secret  societies  and  sacred  mysteries. 

(Ibid.,  81-96,  6  figs.)  General  dis- 
cussion ;  no  new  data.  Refers  to  Baby- 
lonia, Egypt,  Greece,  Druids,  Ameri- 
can Indians  (Ojibwa  midiunwin^  Da- 
kota mysteries,  Navaho,  Oraibi,  etc. ). 
eli  (G. )  La  cavity  glenoidea  dell'  osso 
temporale  nei  sani  di  mente,  negli  alie- 
nati  e  neicriminali.  (R.  Sperim.  di  Fren., 
Reggio,  1905,  XXXI,  319-320.)  Note 
on  examination  of  200  normal,  23  Afri- 
can, 284  abnormal  (suicides,  lunatics, 
criminals)  skulls,  with  respect  to  pres- 
ence, depth,  etc.,  of  the  glenoid  cavity, 
whose  absence  in  man  is  considered  a 
pithecoid  character.  P.  finds  its  nor- 
mality decreases  from  the  white  to  the 
black  race,  and  from  normal  individuals 
to  criminals. 

Pnccioni  ( N. )  Delle  deformazioni  e  muti- 
lazioni  artificiali  etniche  piCi  in  uso.    (A. 


p.  Antrop.,  Firenxe,  1904,  xxxiv,355- 
402,  4  pl.y  I  fk^.  )     ThisTaluablemoK)- 
gnph  treats  of  artificial  ethnk  de&xni- 
tions  and  mutilations  still  in  use  in  nri- 
ons  parts   of  the    globe :    Of  the  skis 
(tattooing,    scarificatioQ)  ;    adipose  tb- 
tue  (artificial  fiittening) ;  head  (flaOen- 
ing,  compressing,  etc  )  ;  perfontMO  of 
ears,  septum  of  nose,  lips,  cheeks ;  filiof 
and     knocking   out     of    teeth;   tbcnx 
(women  all  over  the  world,  corsets,  etc}. 
genital    organs     (perforation  of  ghan^ 
sub-cutaneous  insertion  of  stones,  etc, 
artificial  phimosis,     circumcisioii,  hvpo* 
spadia,  eviration,  complete  castration,  re- 
moval  of  left     testicle,    deformatkn  d 
mammae,  infibulation);    fingers;  nails; 
polpacd  ;  feet  (compression  and  distor- 
tortion)  ;  hair  (removal,  shaving,  etc.). 
Among  the  causes  of  deformations  and 
mutilations,     sexual     ornamentation  of 
males  to   attract  females,   pubertal  and 
virginal  ideas,   tribal  and   caste  nodoos 
and  customs  have  been  of  great  impor- 
tance ;  hygienic  little.      At  pages  371- 
384  Dr  P.  discusses  artificial  cranial  de- 
formations and  gives  the  chief  measure- 
ments of  one  Pampan,   two   New  He- 
bridian,  three  ancient  Crimean  and  40 
Peruvian  skulls  (3  types),  and  concludes 
that  compression  and  deformation  occa- 
sion a  greater  development  of  the  booe 
in  which  they  occur,   the   development 
being,  in  general,  in  direct  proportion  to 
the  compression. 
Qninfeld  ( E. )     Zur  ph3rsischen  und  geisti- 
gen  Entwicklung  des  Kindes  wthrend  der 
ersten  Schuljahre.  (Z.   f.  Schlgsdhtspfl., 
Hamburg,  1905,  xviii,  127-185  )  Gives 
results,  with  tables  and    curves,  of  the 
anthropometric     investigation     (stature, 
chest-circumference,    relation   of    chest- 
circumference    to    stature,     vital    lung- 
capacity,  body-weight,   musculature  and 
nutrition,  scoliosis,  acuity  of  vision,  ear- 
troubles,  memory  and  apprehension,  en- 
largement  of  the  thyroid   glxmd,    other 
defects  and  diseases)   of  1,014  children 
on  entering  school  (6th  year  of  life)  and 
at   the  end  of    the   fourth    school   year 
(  —  end  of  loth  year  of  life).      Children 
of  well-to-do  parents  grow   faster   than 
others,  and  the  yearly  increase  of  stature 
is  greater,  the  older  the  child.     Growth 
of  stature  and  of  chest-girth  are  in  inverse 
relation.     In  growth  of  chest-girth  girls 
lag  behind  boys.     Of  all   the   children 
54.86    percent     increased    in      weight, 
20.71    percent    decreased,     24.43    P*^" 
cent  remained  unchanged.    Tall  children 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


707 


tend  to  have  heavy  body- weight.  The 
taller  the  child,  the  fewer  the  diseased 
conditions  —  the  number  of  healthy  in- 
creases with  increase  of  stature.  The 
frequency  of  scoliosis  decreases  with 
increase  of  body-weight.  Defects  of 
memory  and  apprehension  are  more  com- 
mon in  smaller  children  and  decrease 
with  increasing  stature. 

Read  (C.  H.)  Hjalmar  Stolpe.  (Man, 
Lond.,  1905,  V,  53-54.)  Brief  bio- 
graphical sketch  of  the  eminent  Swedish 
ethnographer  (1841-1905),  well-known 
through  his  Studier  i  Amerikansk  Oma- 
mentik  (Ornamental  Motives  of  the 
American  Aborigines). 

Richardson  (E.  £.)  Cranial  capacity  of 
prehistoric  vs.  modem  man.  (G.  Wash. 
Univ.  Bull.,  Wash.,  1905,  iv,  no.  3, 
72-76.)  Abstract  of  minor  thesis  for 
Ph.D.  Dr  R.  concludes  that  «*from 
the  information  now  obtainable  there  has 
been  no  material  change  in  the  cranial 
capacity  of  man  from  prehistoric  time  to 
the  present.  The  data  considered  were 
derived  from  prehistoric  British  crania," 
historic  British,  Roman,  Roman-British, 
Anglo-Saxon,  modem  Englbh,  Scotch, 
Roman,  American,  etc. 

SetlUl  ( £.  N. )  Ivan  Nikolaevic  Smimov. 
TAnz.  d.  Finn.-Ugr.  Forsch.,  Helsing- 
lors,  1904,  IV,  85-89. )  Sketch  of  life 
and  activities  of  Smimov  (1856-1904), 
ethnographer  of  the  South  Slavs  and  the 
Finnic  peoples. 

Karl  Ujfalvy,  1842-1904.     (Ibid., 

89.)  Brief  sketch  with  list  of  chief 
works. 

Fl6ri&n  M&ty^,  1818-1904.    (Ibid., 


90-91.)  Brief  sketch,  with  notice  of 
philological  writings,  1857-1871.  M. 
was  one  of  the  first  to  call  attention  to 
the  Aryan  element  in  the  Hungarian 
tongue. 

Sieger  (  — )  Ernst  Friedrich's  "Wirt- 
schaflsgeographie.''  (Globus,  Brnschwg., 
1905,  ijcxxviii,  95-97.)  R6sum6  and 
discussion  of  Friedrich*s  AUgemeine  und 
spezielle  Wirtschaftsgeographie  ( Leipzig, 
1904),  of  which  the  key-note  is  the 
classification  in  accordance  with  the 
principle  of  "nature-compulsion'*  of 
economic  progress  into  the  stages  of 
animal,  instructive,  traditional,  and 
scientific. 

Singer  (H. )  Hermann  von  Wissmann. 
(Globus,  Brnschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxviii, 
81-82,  I  fg.)  Sketch  of  life  and 
scientific  activities  of  H.  von  Wissman 
(1853-1905),     the    African    explorer. 

AM.  ANTH.,  N.  S.,  ^ — 47. 


His  last  work  was  In  den  Wildnissen 
Afrikas  und  A  si  ens  ^  Jagderlebnisse  ( Ber- 
lin, 1901). 

Znccarelli  (A.)  II  terzo  trocantere  nell' 
uomo,  sue  forme,  sue  dimenzioni,  suo  va- 
lore  onto-filogenetico,  etc.  (R.  Sperim. 
di  Fren.,  Reggio,  1905,  xxxi,  380-382.) 
The  percentage  in  ancient  femurs  is  very 
much  higher  than  in  modem ;  higher  in 
degenerates  than  in  normal  individuals ; 
more  common  unilaterally  and  dextrally. 

Intorao  alia  sutura   metopica  e  al 

suo  valore  nella  specie  humana,  etc. 
(Ibid.,  382. )  In  first  500  skulls  in  the 
Delia  Porta  collection  in  Naples  36  were 
"metopic."  Metopism  is  sometimes  a 
mark  of  superiority,  sometimes  a  simple 
irregularity  of  development,  sometimes, 
again,  an  arrest  of  development,  a  sign 
of  inferiority,  a  pathological  stigma. 

EUROPE 

AlYet  (C. )  O  casamento  em  terra  de 
Miranda.  (Portugalia,  Porto,  1905,  1 1, 
100-102. )  Describes  marriage  cere- 
monies and  customs  in  the  Miranda 
region  of  Portugal.  In  connection  with 
the  wedding  there  are  races,  games,  etc. 
Sometimes  on  the  wedding  night  bells 
are  attached  to  the  nuptial  couch,  pins 
are  strewn  in  the  bed,  etc. 

Andree  ( R* )  B5hmische  Sprachenkarten. 
Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  350- 
351.)  Briefly  describes  the  various  lin- 
guistic maps  of  Bohemia :  Berghaus  (in 
his  Atlas,  1845),  Hanfler  (1847),  v. 
Czoemig  ( 1855 ),  v.  Le  Monnier  ( 1888), 
Langhans  (1899),  Zemmrich  (1902), 
Rauchenberg,  etc. 

de  Arenzadi  [t.)  Weihnachtliche  Ton- 
werkzeuge  in  Madrid.  (Ibid.,  1905, 
LXXXVIII,  30,  3  fgs.)  Describes  briefly 
the  zambomba,  chicharra,  and  bladder- 
bow,  noise-making  implements  used  at 
Christmas-time  by  adults  as  well  as  chil- 
dren in  Madrid.  They  are  not  known  to 
the  Moriscos.  The  first  resembles  the 
Frisian  **mmmelpott,*'  the  second  is 
like  the  German  **  Heupferdchen.** 

d' Azevedo  ( P. )  Os  tremendores  em  Por- 
tugal no  seculo  xvi.  (Portugalia,  Porto, 
1905,  II,  103-107.)  Brief  notes  on  the 
"tremblers'*  (cf.  Quakers),  one  of  the 
features  of  popular  religion  in  Portugal 
in  the  i6th  century.  The  texts  of  two 
letters  of  this  period,  written  by  a  judge, 
are  given.  The  originator  of  this  danc- 
ing and  trembling  cult  seems  to  have 
been  a   woman,   nicknamed  Feia,  i.  e. 


7o8 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[s.  s.,  7. 1905 


**Ugly,"   who  afterward  either  feigned 
lunacy  or  became  altogether  mad. 

Baglioni  ( S. )  Heitrag  zur  Vorgeschichte 
dcsPicenums,  Italien.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Ber- 
lin, 1905,  xxxvii,  257-264.  42  fgs.) 
Treats  of  neck -rings,  arm-rings,  fibulae, 
chains,  ear-rings,  belt-buckles,  pendant 
ornaments  (amulets),  etc.,  from  graves 
of  the  Hallstadt  period  (first  iron  age) 
near  Belmonte-Piceno  in  the  district  of 
Fermo,  not  far  from  the  Adriatic  coast 
Southern  IMcenum  is  rich  in  pendant  <x- 
naments.  A  large  stone  with  an  ancient 
Picenian  inscription  upon  it  was  also  dis- 
covered. 

Carroll  (M.)  The  site  of  ancient  Pha- 
lerum.  ((i.  Wash.  Univ.  Bull.,  Wash., 
1905,  111,  No.  3,  82-90.)  Argues  that 
the  pre-Themistoclean  port  town  of 
Athens  was  **to  the  west  of  the  bay  at 
the  eastern  foot  of  the  hill  of  Munychia.*' 

Col  borne  l  G. )  Genius  by  counties.  (Strand 
Mag.,  Ix>nd.,  1905,  xxix,  23-28,  12 
maps. )  Discusses  distribution  of  British 
genius  according  to  counties.  According 
to  this  showing,  Monmouth,  Dorset, 
Rutland,  Buckinghamshire,  W^estmore- 
land,  and  most  of  the  Welsh  counties  have 
produced  no  geniuses.  Yorkshire  ex- 
hibits a  catholicity  in  genius.  The 
author's  list  of  geniuses  is  made  up  of  200 
persons,  of  whom  he  avers,  **  if  these  200 
names  were  expunged,  British  history  for 
the  past  three  or  four  hundred  years 
would  l>e  little  more  than  a  blank." 

I>iluureT(M.)  Narodni!  kalendar  ValuTs'- 
kogo  pov.  (Mater.  I'kr.-Rus'k.  Elnol., 
Lviv,  1905,  IV,  113-204.)  Detailed 
account  of  the  folk-calendar  of  the  district 
of  Valuiki  in  the  j^overnment  of  Voronesh, 
by  months  ami  days.  Also  carnival, 
easier- eiijTs  and  related  costumes,  the  rite 
of  the  linden,  the  drowning  of  Marj'nka 
(doll),  superstitions  about  animals,  the 
weather.  Amonjr  the  Saints  who  figure 
are  St  (ieorge,  St  John,  St  Nicholas,  and 
St  Rlaise. 

Dittrich  ( P. )  Amtliches  aus  dem  18. 
Jahrhundert.  (Mitt.  d.  Schles.  Ges.  f. 
Volksk.,  Hreslau,  1905,  vi,  112-II3.) 
Notes  that  in  1717  the  profession  of 
shepherd  was  declared  honorable  by  an 
imperial  decree,  proclaimed  in  Silesia. 
In  1786,  on  account  of  the  abuses  ( drunk- 
enness, theft,  etc. )  connected  therewith 
the  "riding  about"  the  cornfields  (to 
ward  off  evil )  was  al)olished.  This  old 
custom  was  formerly  much  in  vogue  in 
several  villages  of  the  principality  of 
Nasse-Grottkau. 


I 


Doaumitald  (V.  )  Narodnya  meditiiiuQ 
Rovens'komu  poviti  na  Volinl.  (Mater. 
Ukr.-Rus'k,  Etnol.,  Lviv,  1905,  iv,  loo- 
107.)  Treats  of  folk-medicine  in  tbe 
Rovno  district  of  Volhynia  :  Dirine  pan- 
ishment  and  evil  will  of  men  as  causes  of 
disease ;  practices  of  men  and  wodcb 
'*  doctors"  ;  personificatioos  of  diseue: 
treatment  of  external  and  inteml 
troubles ;  diseases  of  cattle  and  tbeir 
treatment.  ScMne  specimens  of  incanti- 
tions  are  given. 

FaTnau  (P.  )  Neue  Fonde  aos  dem  Di- 
luvium m  der  Umgegend  von  Nenhil- 
densleben,  insbesondere  der  Kiesgnibc 
am  Schlosspark  von  Hundisborg.  iZ. 
f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii,  275- 
295>  5  %s. )  Describes  the  new  dilariil 
finds  ( bones  of  animals,  flint  implemeots 
from  pronounced  eoliths  to  unmistakable 
paleoliths)  in  gravel -pits  near  Nenhil- 
densleben.  In  the  discussion  of  this 
paper  M.  Blanckenhom  and  Hr  Wlegen 
took  part  at  some  length,  the  former 
treating  of  the  whole  eoiithic  question  in 
Germany,  holding  that  most  of  the  North 
German  eoliths  are  much  later  than  those 
of  France  and  Belgium. 

Finn  (-^r)  Ucber  einen  grossen  antikes 
Goldfund  in  Schweden.  (Ibid.,  365- 
366.)  Note  on  the  discovery  in  t 
gravel-pit  near  Sk5fde,  of  a  heavy  gold 
chain,  another  gold  chain  and  two  goM 
bars,  amounting  in  metal-value  to  19,000 
marks.  The  find  belongs  to  the  10- 
iith  century  A.  D.  An  old  local  legend 
had  it  that  there  was  a  treasure  in  the 
pit. 

Fort^  (J.)  As  fibulas  do  noroeste  di 
peninsula.  (Portugalia,  Porto,  1905. 
"»  15-33.  38  fgs.)  F.  distinguishes 
and  describes  7  types  of  Jtbuio'  from 
northeastern  Portugal.  These  may  be 
arranged  under  two  exotic  culture- streams 
(Gallic,  Italian)  and  one  (ilic  annular 
fibula)  representative  of  native  Portu- 
guese primitive  industry. 

Thesouro  de  Viatodos.     Da  idade  do 

bronze.  (Ibid.,  iio-i  1 1,  i  fg. )  Brief 
account  of  a  find  of  15  bronze  axes,  some 
fragments  of  metal,  etc.,  made  in  the 
parish  of  Viatodos  in  the  Barcellos  re- 
gion. 

Restos   de    uma    villa    lusitano   n>- 


mana,  Povoa  de  Varzim.  (Ibid.,  I13. ) 
Note  on  the  ruins  of  a  Lusitanian- Roman 
town  at  Povva  de  \*arzim. 
Goby  ( P. )  Sur  quelques  meules  i  grains 
et  un  moulin  ancien  ressemblant  au 
*'trapetum"  d6couvert  dans  Parrondis- 


CHAMBERLAIN] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


709 


sement  de  Grasse,  A.-M.  (Ann.  Soc. 
d.  Lettres,  Sci.  et  Arts  des  Alpes-Mari- 
times,  Nice,  1905,  xiv,  95-120,  2  pi., 
2  fgs. )  Describes  various  kinds  of 
** mills''  and  mortars  for  crushing  and 
grinding  grains,  seeds,  etc.  —  the  majority 
from  Roman  and  Gallo- Roman  *'  sta- 
tions.'* They  run  all  the  way  from 
simple  stones  on  which  the  grain  was 
ground  by  hand  to  turning  mills  with 
upper  and  nether  parts,  and  others,  like 
the  one  from  the  Quartier  du  Bois  ( dis- 
cussed at  some  length)  which  resembles 
the  trapetum  described  by  Cato  in  his  De 
Re  Rusticay  as  used  for  crushing  olives. 
et  Gu^bhard  ( A. )    Sur  les  enceintes 


pr^historiques  des  Pr^alpes  Maritimes. 
(C.-r.  de  i'Ass.  Fran?,  p.  I'Av.  d.  Sci., 
1904,  xxxiii«  Ses.,  1068-1109,  map,  7 
fgs.)  Lists  and  describes  prehistoric 
stone  enclosures  ( *  *  camps,  *  *  *  *  castles ' ' ) 
in  the  region  of  the  Maritime  pre-Alps. 
That  of  the  Quartier  du  Bois  du  Romet, 
the  Castellaras  de  Mauvans,  that  of  Col- 
let Assont  or  Cast6on  Vasson,  are  treated 
with  some  detail.  These  enclosures  may 
be  due  to  the  Liguri,  but  more  proof  is 
needed.  A  plan  for  the  investigation  of 
these  structures  is  outlined,  pp.  1082- 
109 1 .  Some  of  the  enclosures  are  double 
or  even  triple.  The  exact  period  of  their 
abandonment  is  uncertain. 

65tz  ( W. )  Bulgariens  ungehobene  Boden- 
sch9.tze.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
Lxxxvii,  373-376.)  Points  out  the 
richness  of  Bulgaria  (particularly  the 
east  with  its  thousands  of  unexplored 
kurgans)  in  uninvestigated  archeolog- 
ical  remains.  The  mogili  G.  considers 
to  be  grave  monuments.  The  prehistoric 
(pre-Thracian)  period,  Thracian,  Greeks 
Christian  periods,  are  all  represented. 
The  need  of  scientific  investigation  is 
great. 

Grosse  (/^r)  Ueber  einen  Grabfund  von 
Sonnenwalde  im  Kreise  Luckau.  (Z.  f. 
Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii,  367-369, 
5  fgs.)  Describes  a  peculiarly  orna- 
mented lance-point,  a  spindle- whorl,  and 
a  **  swallow-stone,"  found  in  a  burial- 
place  of  the  Hallstatt  epoch,  to  judge 
from  the  numerous  fragments  of  prehis- 
toric pottery  of  the  Niederlausitz  type  at 
its  height.  The  Hnds  in  question  are, 
however,  not  of  the  Hallstatt  period,  but 
due  to  a  later  burial. 

Grosvenor  (E.  A.)  The  evolution  of 
Russian  government.  (Nat.  Geogr. 
Mag.,  Wash.,  1905,  xvi,  309-332,  14 
fgs.)     General  historico- political  sketch 


of  people  and  rulers.  Author  notes  how 
environment  of  plain  "developed  those 
traits  of  sluggish  patience,  of  long  en- 
durance, of  morbid  self-sacrifice,  which 
distinctly  mark  the  Russian  people  to- 
day.'* Professor  G.  styles  the  Russian 
**a  Slavic  race,  a  stock  distinct  from 
every  other  European  race.**  The  most 
important  word  in  the  language  is  mivy 
'*  village  and  village  assembly."  In 
Russia  the  proverb  has  it,  **two  are 
everywhere,  God  and  the  Czar." 

Gu^bhard  (A.)  Sur  un  tr^sor  de  deniers 
romains  trouv6  en  1901  aux  environs  de 
Nice.  (Ann.  Soc.  d.  Lettres,  Sci.  et 
Arts  d.  Alpes-Mar.,  Nice,  1904,  xix, 
79-90,  2pl. )  Describes  a  find  of  120 
Roman  coins,  ranging  A.  u.  c.  615- 
752,  from  the  neighborhood  of  Nice. 

Fouilles   et  glanes   tumulaires  aux 

environs  de  Saint- Ville-de-Thiey,  Alpcs- 
Maritimes.  (Bull.  Soc.  Pr^hist.  de 
France,  Paris,  1904,  I,  301-310,  4  fgs.) 
Describes  tumuli  and  contents  at  St. 
Christophe,  Mauvans,  etc.  At  St.  Chris- 
tophe  were  found  bead  necklaces  (of 
dentalium),  bronze  objects,  pot-sherds, 
flints,  28  human  teeth,  etc.  At  Mauvans 
a  portion  of  a  human  lower  jaw  and  300 
teeth — the  dentitions  of  1 1  individuals 
(3  children,  3  women,  5  men)  were 
recognized.  Dr  G.  appends  to  his  article 
an  unnumbered  3  page  bibliography  of 
his  various  publications. 

▼on  Hahn  (C. )  Die  Taier  der  "  Grossen 
Ljachwa"  und  der  Ksanka  (Ksan)  und 
das  sUdliche  Ossetien.  (Globus,  Bm- 
schwg., 1905,  Lxxxviii,  21-25.)  Pages 
23-25  contain  notes  on  the  Ossetes  (cul- 
ture, two- wheeled  cars,  relics  of  nomadic 
life,  influence  of  cattle-breeding,  etc. ,  — 
land  and  other  measures,  ancestor-cult, 
grave-sacrifice  of  horse,  etc.).  V.  H. 
seeks  to  connect  the  old  Germanic  and 
Frankish  land-measure,  bonnarius^  vrith 
Ossetic  bon  ("day,"  cf.  German  Mot- 
gen),  and  bongen.  The  northern  Os- 
setes diflfer  physically  and  otherwise 
from  the  southern.  There  exists  much 
antipathy  between  the  Ossetes  and  the 
Grusinians.  Many  old  heathen  customs 
survive.  While  recognizing  the  Indo- 
Germanic  kinship  in  speech,  custom.s, 
etc.,  of  the  Ossetes,  v.  H.  agrees  with 
Count  Uvarov  that  the  archeologic  data 
of  the  country  indicate  that  Ossetic  cul- 
ture has  been  very  much  influenced  by 
Asiatic  (e.  g.  Turkic)  elements. 

Hammer  ( S.  C. )  and  Nyhuss  ( H. )  The 
Viking  ship  found  at  Oseberg.     (Century 


7IO 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7, 1905 


Mag..  N.  Y.,  1905,  Lxx.  729-733.  5 
figs. )  Brief  description  of  excavation  of 
Oscberg  ship  in  1903-04. 

Hippe  (M. )  Die  Grilber  der  Wdchnerin- 
nen.  (Mitt.  d.  Schles.  Gcs.  f.  Volksk., 
Breslau,  1905,  vi,  101-103.)  Treats  of 
the  custom  of  burying  women  dying  in 
child-l>ed  apart  from  other  bodies,  and 
near  the  cemetery  wall,  etc.  Documents 
of  the  city  of  Breslau  in  1528  and  17 13 
are  cited. 

KaIUs  (O.  )  Spricht  man  in  Li  viand  noch 
livisch.  (Anz.  d.  Finn.-Ugr.  Forsch., 
Helsingfors,  1904,  iv,  61-65.)  Cites 
evidence  to  show  that  Livonian  is  not  yet 
absolutely  extinct  as  spoken  language  in 
Livonia. 

KarjaUinen  ( K.  F. )  Ueber  M.  A.  Gas- 
trin's transskription  des  ostjakischen  in 
seinen  druck-  und  handschriften.  ( Finn.- 
Ugr.  Forsch.,  Helsingfors,  1904,  iv,  97- 
112.)  Discusses  the  transliteration  of 
Ostiak  in  the  published  works  and  MSS. 
of  Gastrin,  who  in  a  letter  of  Nov.  13, 
1845,  annoimced  the  completion  of  the 
MS.  of  his  **  Sketch  of  an  Ostiak  Gram- 
mar, with  Vocabulary."  Had  Gastrin, 
as  he  intended,  made  another  visit  to  the 
Ustiaks,  his  work  would  have  been  much 
modified. 

▼on  Keussler  (F. )  Lyndanise  ein  ge- 
schichtlicher  Ortsname.  ( Stzgb.  d.  Ges. 
f.  Gesch.,  etc.,  Riga,  1903  [1904J,  124- 
127.)  Discusses  various  etymologies  sug- 
gested for  this  word,  which  now  appears 
to  be  a  historical  place-name  and  not 
merely  one  due  to  misunderstanding. 
Hurt  cites  the  Esthonian  folk-etymol- 
ogy '•  breast  of  Linda  (consort  of  the 
hero  Kalen)."  It  may  be,  as  Arens 
suggests,  identical  with  Swedish  Lin- 
danasy  said  to  be  a  translation  of  Fin- 
nish Keso^  '*  fallow-land  point." 

Klapper  ( J. )  Alte  Arzneibiicher.  ( Mitt, 
d.  Schles.  Ges.  f.  Volksk.,  Breslau, 
1905,  VI,  22-29.)  Gives  extracts  from 
three  MS.  medicine-books  of  the  14th 
and  15th  centuries  in  Breslau. 

Zur  Volkskunde  aus  dem  Goldberg- 

Ilaynauer  Kreise.  (Ibid.,  I06-110.) 
Records  customs  and  superstitions  re- 
lating to  domestic  life,  peasant  usages, 
a  children's  game  (Kaiser  Karolius), 
charms,  beliefs  in  ghosts,  etc. 

Knopp  (<X)  Aberglaube  und  Brauch  aus 
der  Provinz  Posen.  ( Ibid.,  43-57. )  Enu- 
merates from  Cierman  and  Polish  Posen 
85  folk-lore  items  relating  to  love,  woo- 
ing, wedding,  married  life,  etc.;  35  re- 
lating to  mother  and  child. 


KoMinoA  (G.)  Ueber  verzierte  Eisa 
lanzenspitzen  als  Keniueichen  der  Ost- 
germanen.  (Z.  f.  Elhn.,  Berlin.  1905, 
XXXVII,  369-407,  3  fgs. )  Treats  « 
length  of  omamcDted  iron  lance-ho^ 
as  characteristic  of  the  East  Teataac 
peoples,  who,  according  to  K.,  trose 
ca,  750-700  B.  c,  through  the  miga- 
tion  of  Scandinavian  hordes,  who  im- 
posed themselves  upon  a  West  Teutonic 
population.  Between  the  two  paioi 
of  occurrence  of  the  laoce-heads  is 
question  ( the  close  of  the  La  Ttee  period 
and  the  last  150-100  years  B.  c)  isi 
hiatus  of  some  200  years  during  which 
they  do  not  appear.  Ornament  and 
technique  differ  in  these  two  periods,- 
shields,  fibulse,  pottery,  etc,  are  ibo 
compared.  The  lance-heads  of  Soom- 
walde  (see  Crosse)  are  Eastern  T«- 
tonic  and  belong  to  the  3rd  or  4* 
century  A.  D. 

Zum  Goldfimde  von  Skdfde.    (IbkL, 

471-472.  )  Discusses  the  omamenUtioo 
of  the  gold  neck-rings  of  Sk5fde  and 
points  out  analogies  in  other  parts  of  the 
Scandinavian  area.  Argues  that  the  fiad 
belongs  to  the  beginning  of  the  6th  cen- 
tury A.  p.     See  /-Unn. 

Kroll]l(K.)  Die  fundorte  der  episdico 
gesftnge  des  Kalevala,  mit  eincr  kartc 
(Finn.  Ugr.  Forsch.,  Helsingfors^  1904. 
IV,  112-118.)  Discusses  the  localities 
from  which  the  epic  songs  of  the  Kalerth 
have  been  obtained.  There  are  two  chief 
sources,  one  in  the  south  (  Esthonia)  and 
one  in  the  north  (Finnish  and  RaSMfl 
Karelia),  both  of  which  have  their  sub- 
divisions. The  most  important  section 
is  Wierland  (Virumaa).  Wandering  of 
the  songs  is  clearly  indicated.  Of 
Esthonian  origin  are  the  creation  song,  a 
great  part  of  the  Ainonine,  search  for 
vessel-wood,  first  wooing  of  Ilmarinen, 
forging  of  the  goldmaiden,  voyage 
(partly)  with  harp-playing,  and  the  judg- 
ment of  Marjatta's  son.  Westfinnish  are 
the  song-contest  of  Wainftmoinen  and 
Joukahainen,  blood-stream  from  W.'s 
knee-wound,  journey  to  Tuonela,  vovage 
(partly)  and  freeing  of  the  sun.  In  In- 
germanland  arose  Kullervo's  departure; 
and  also  (after  a  Russian  ballad)  Ilmari- 
nen's  second  wooing. 

Vainamoinens     richterspruch     und 

abschied.  (Ibid.,  11 8-1 34.  )  Discusses 
the  judgment-song  and  leave-taking  of 
Wainamoinen  in  the  Kalevala.  The 
Marjatta-song  is  of  Esthonian  origin 
(Marketta=  Marjetta),  and  some  20  ver- 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


711 


sions  of  it  have  been  found  in  that  region. 
Catholic  influence  is  evident. 
Kiilmaa  (Dr)     Hexen  und  Hexenzauber, 
nebst  einem  Anhang  iiber  Zauberer  und 
Hexenmeister.     (Mitt.  d.  Scbles.  Ges.  f. 
Volksk.,    Breslau,     1905,    vi,    82-98.) 
Treats    of    witches,    their    form    (cats, 
toads,   straw,  whirl-wind,    night-mare), 
favorite    times    (Christmas,    St    John's 
eve,  May  eve,  etc.),  dancing  and  music, 
cursing,  etc.     Also  the  witches'  magic, 
charms,  etc.  (the  witch-book,  the  little 
blue  stone),  ways  of  injuring  people  and 
property,  protection  against  witch-magic 
and  charm-breaking,  power  of  witch  over 
grass-growing.      Charmers    and    witch - 
masters  are  not  so  evil   as  witches  and 
sometimes  even  do  good.     Magic  powers 
are  attributed  to  the  gypsies,  to  doctors 
and  other  learned  men. 
Leite   de    Vasconcellot    (J.)     Crioulos 
Portugueses.     Ligoa  e  litteratura  1899- 
1901.    ( Rom.  Jahresb. ,  Erlangen,  1904, 
VI,  I,  405-408. )     Brief  notes  on   pub- 
lications relating  to   the   language  and 
literature   of  the  Portuguese  outside  of 
Europe.     The  chief    works   have   been 
Marques  de  Barro's  studies  of  the  lan- 
guage, folk-lore,  etc.,  of  the  Portuguese 
Creoles  of   West  Africa    (i 899-1 900), 
Dalgado's  study  of  the  Portuguese  dia- 
lects   of    Goa    and     Ceylon     (1900), 
Negreiros*  lie  de   San-Thomi   (190J), 
and    the  author's   Esquisse  cfune  dia- 
lectologie  portuguaise  ( 1 901 ) . 
LUsaner  (A.)     Drei  Slavische  Schl9.fen- 
ringe.      (Z.    f.    Ethn.,    Berlin,    1905, 
XXXVII,   366,    2   fgs.)     Note  on  three 
Slavonic  head-rings  (one  of  bronze- wire, 
two,  hollow,  of  silver  plate,  and  orna- 
mented).    The   two   latter  are   from  a 
burial  place  near  Kaldus,  West  Prussia. 
The  field  of  these  hollow  rings  is  limited, 
and  those  with  conventionalized  animal 
ornaments  are  very  rare. 
Litvinora-Bartosh  {Mrs  P.)     Olllnitrya 
u  seli  Zemlyantzl  Gluchovs'kogo  povitu 
na   Tchernigivstchinl.       (Mater.    Ukr.- 
Rus'k.   Etnol.,  Lviv,  1905,  iv,  83-88, 
II  fgs.)     Treats  of  oil -making  in   the 
village  of  Zemlianka  in  the  government 
of  Tchemigiv.     Times  of  manufacture, 
preparation  of  seeds,  oilery,  and  processes 
of  oil-making  are  described.    The  crusher 
is  quite  primitive.     See  Shishkevitch. 
Lowack  (A.)     Die  illteste  Probe  schles- 
ischen  Volksdialekts  im  Drama.     (Mitt, 
d.  Schles.  Ges.  f.  Volksk  ,  Breslau,  1905, 
VI,  58-63.).     Cites,  with  linguistic  and 
explanatory  notes,  passages  from  a  drama 


in  the  Silesian  dialect,  George  Gobel's 
Die  fart  Jacobs  des   Heiligen    Patri- 
archens    (Budissin,   1 586),    believed   to 
contain  the  earliest  example  of  this  dia- 
lect in  the  drama. 
de  Magelhaes  ( L. )     Os  barcos  da  ria  de 
Aveiro.     (Portugalia,  Porto,    1905,    ii, 
49-62,    I    pi.,    9   fgs.)     Describes  the 
region  of  the  Ria  de  Aveiro  (formerly  a 
branch  of  the  sea,   now  a  salt-lake  or 
lagoon)  in  the  Beira  region  of  Portugal 
and   the   boats  in  use  upon  its  waters. 
There  is  a  particular  type  of  boat  corre- 
sponding to  each  of  the   chief  aquatic 
labors  of  the  ria^  viz.  :  for  salt-making, 
saleiro  ;  for  obtaining  sea- weed  and  grass, 
moiiceiro  ;  for  river  transport  of  maritime 
Hshing,  bateira    mercantel ;    for  fluvial 
fishing,  murtogeira  or  labrega  and  bateira 
de  llhavo.     There  is  also  the  cafadeira^ 
a  little  boat  used  in  hunting  waterfowl, 
etc.     The  prows  and  poops  of  some  of 
the  moliceiros  are  much  ornamented. 
llasner  ( K.  \     Neue  Aufgaben  der  schles- 
ischen  Volkskunde.     (Mitt.   d.  Schles. 
Ges.  f.  Volksk.,  Breslau,  1905,  vi,  1-9.) 
Indicates   as    most    important   tasks  of 
museum  (institute)  and  folk-lore  societies 
the   collection   of   old   folk  products   in 
industry  and  manufacture  and  the  gather- 
ing together  and  preservation  of  art  prod- 
ucts  and   examples  of  handiwork,   etc. 
The  Silesian  Museum,  since  its  founda- 
tion in  1899,  paid  special  attention  to  the 
collection  of  *  *  peasant  antiquities. "    The 
Silesian  Folk- Lore  Society  is  not  so  nar- 
row as  to  exclude  folk-art  from  the  field 
of  its  activities.     Aid  can  come  from  the 
man  of  science,  the  artisan,  the  photog- 
rapher (pictures   of    houses,  furniture, 
I       tools,  etc.,  are  valuable),  etc. 
de  Mattos  (M. )     As  diamines  Alemte- 
janes.     (Portugalia,  Porto,  1905,  ii,  79- 
84,   13  fgs.)      Describes  the  chimneys, 
often  quite  ornamental,  of  the  houses  in 
the  Sado  region  of  Alemtejo.     There  are 
three     types,  —  pyramidal,    cylindrical, 
prismatic.     In  Ferreira  occurs  a  curious 
type  of  double  chimney. 
Mertens   {Dr^     Ein  Fischspeer  aus  der 
Gegend  von  Fiirstenberg  i.  M.     (Z.  f. 
Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii,  445-447, 
7  fgs.)     Describes   an  ii -pronged  iron 
fish- spear.     Hr  Krause  adds  an  account 
of  some   similar  fish-spears   taken  from 
Brandenburg   fish-pirates.     The    "fish- 
fork"    is   known  from   the   cavemen  of 
paleolithic  France. 
Mettig    K. )     Ueber  die  Wirksamkeit  dps 
Westf^lischen    Fehmgerichts    in    Riga. 


712 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s..  7,  m 


(Stzgb.  d.  Ges.  f.  Gcsch.,  etc.,  Riga, 
1903  [1904],  14-18.)  Cites  evidence 
to  show  that  in  spite  of  the  declarations 
of  the  civil  authorities  and  the  arch- 
bishop, the  influence  of  the  Westphalian 
Fehmf  extended  to  Riga  and  its  power 
was  respected  there. 

Ueber  den  iMnziger  Artushof  und 

seine  Hriiderschaften.  ( Ibid. ,  22-26. ) 
R^sum^s  the  recent  work  of  Dr  Paul 
Simson  published  in  1900  on  the  famous 
Artus  inn  and  its  cameraderies, 

Der  Kreiherr  Bengt  Horn  als  Aeltes- 

ter  der  Kompagnie  der  Schwarzen 
Ilftupter  in  Riga.  ( Ibid.,  44-55. )  Ciives 
an  account  of  life  and  activities  of  Bengt 
Horn  (b.  1675 )  in  connection  with  the 
**  Company  of  Black  Heads,*'  now  some 
500  years  old. 

Nenmann  (W. )  Hie  mittelalterlichen 
Hol/schnitzereien  am  GestUhl  des  Rat- 
hauses  und  der  Heil.  Geistkirche  zu 
Revel.  (Ibid.,  5-14,  3  pi. )  Describes 
the  medieval  wood-carvings  (scene  from 
Tristan  and  I  Isolde,  Samson  and  the 
Hon,  Cioliuth  and  I)avid,  Samson  and 
Delilah,  scene  from  Vergil)  on  the  seats 
in  the  town  hall  of  Revel. 

Olbrich  (  K. )  Ein  Freund  und  FSrderer 
der  Schlesischen  Volkskunde  vor  hundert 
Jahren  und  seine  Zeitschrift.  (Mitt, 
d.  Schles.  Ges.  f.  Volksk.,  Breslau,  1905, 
VI,  30-43.)  Treats  of  Georg  Gustav 
Fullel)orn  (1769-1803)  and  his  journal 
the  Brfslauischer  ErzahUr^  which  he 
edited  1 800- 1 803.  Indications  of  the 
contents  of  this  periodical  relating  to 
dialect,  proverbs,  folk-songs  ( F.  had  a 
MS.  collection),  superstitions,  tales  and 
legends,  habits  and  customs,  dress,  do- 
mestic life,  etc.,  are  given. 

Peixoto  (K.)  Sobrevivencia  da  primitiva 
roda  de  oleiro  em  Portugal.  ( Portugalia, 
Porto,  1905,  II,  74-78,  5  fgs. )  Notes 
the  survival  of  a  primitive  potter's  wheel 
in  various  localities  in  the  regions  of 
Amarante  and  Baiao,  where  still  exist 
**  paneleiros,"  as  the  rustic  ceramic 
artists  are  popularly  called,  —  these  jx>t- 
ters  constitute  "corporations"  almost 
exclusively  devoted  to  the  fabrication  of 
black  ware.  Natureof  material,  method 
of  manufacture,  etc.,  are  briefly  de- 
scribed. The  wooden  wheel  used  is  of 
the  type  which  possibly  preceded  the 
lathe  in  Kurope,  and  goes  back  as  far  as 
ancient  Thebes  and  Memphis  at  least. 

"PrisOes"   de   gado.      (Ibid.,   78- 

79,  3  fgs).     Note  on  **cattle  prisons" — 
rings  of  stone  embedded  in  the  walls  of 


baildings,  to  whidi  cattle,  horses,  ^ 
are  tied. 

O  masea  municipal  de  Bn^u^L 

( Ibid. ,  1 20.  )  Brief  account  of  the  b»- 
nicipal  museum  of  Braganza  and  its  coe- 
tents  ( the  specialty  is  lapidary  ep^ 
raphy).  The  museum  dates  its  iIBti^ 
tioD  to  the  labors  of  A.  dos  Santos 
Pereira  Lopo  in  1896. 

Museus   episcopaes.      (Ibid.,  IJO- 

122. )  Notes  on  the  episcopal  maseoss 
of  B^a  (  founded  in  the  last  qoarier  of 
the  iSth  century),  transferred  aftcmid 
in  part  to  Evora  and  Coimbra,  dwcesu 
expositions,  etc. 

Excava^Oes  archeologicas.     (Ibii, 

122-123.  )  Notes  on  the  labors  of  Ma- 
ud da  Gama  Xara  and  the  Sodedade 
Archeologica  Lusitana,  Hcnriqnes  Po- 
heiro,  Santos  Rocha,  etc. 

Illuminaoao  popular.      (Ibid,  35- 

48,  36  fgs. )  Treats  of  popular  hunps 
and  other  devices  for  illumination  iioo 
early  times  down  to  the  present  in  PortB- 
gal.  After  torches  came  lamps,— ooe  of 
the  very  earliest  was  a  shell  to  contain 
the  burning  substance,  which  form  Uter 
lamps  imitated  in  clay,  etc  Widu 
came  with  the  popularization  of  oil,  tnd 
fancy  and  fashion  modified  and  orna- 
mented the  receptacle,  till  lamps  in  Ro- 
man times  exhibited  an  exuberance  of 
decoration,  which  was  increased  daring 
the  subsequent  Christian  ages. 

Physical  deterioration.  (Man,  Loni, 
I905»  V,  83-84.  )  Text  of  memorial  of 
Anthropological  Institute  to  the  Loni 
President  of  the  Council,  praying  for  the 
establishment  of  an  anthropometric  sar- 
vey,  a  register  of  sickness,  and  an  ad- 
visory council,  as  recommended  bv  the 
Inter- Departmental  Committee  on  Phys- 
ical Deterioration. 

Pinho  (J.)  Ethnographia  Amarantina. 
A  ca<?a.  (Portugalia,  Porto,  1905.  il. 
84- 100.  40  fgs. )  Treats  of  hunting  and 
trapping  in  the  Amarante  region  of  Portu- 
gal. A  list  of  instruments  and  imple- 
ments employed  by  the  people  is  given, 
and  they  are  described  with  more  or  less 
detail.  Snares  with  and  without  bail 
(many  varieties  from  simple  to  compli- 
cated) ;  lying-in-wait  (with  and  without 
decoys)  and  kindred  devices  ;  hunting 
proper  {busca^  beating,  etc.,  are  all 
considered.  The  favorite  weapon  of 
boys  is  the  catapult  ifisga  ) . 

Radakov  (.1/rj  H.  )  Zolotarstvo  u.  Staro 
bil's'komu  poviti  u  Charkivstchini. 
(Mater.  tkr.-Rus'k.  Etnol.,  Lviv,  1905 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


713 


IV,  1 08- II 3,  7  fgs.)  Treats  of  folk- 
jewelry  (Ukrainian  and  Great  Russian 
ear-rings,  etc. )  in  the  Starobilsk  distinct 
of  the  government  ofCharkov,  the  process 
of  manufacture,  implements  used,  etc. 

Reindl  (J. )  Die  ehemaligen  Weinkulturen 
bei  Neuburg  an  der  Donau.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  384-387.) 
Notes  on  former  vineyards  at  Leitheim, 
Neuburg,  and  other  places  where  the 
settlement  of  monks  and  the  founding  of 
monasteries  led  to  the  cultivation  of  the 
grape.  Of  the  wine  of  Neuburg,  Balde 
sang  that  <<the  grapes  naturally  weep 
vinegar.**  Viticulture  flourished  in  this 
region  during  the  Roman  period.  The 
second  viticultural  epoch  of  the  Danube 
valley  belongs  with  the  period  of  the 
erection  of  monasteries. 

Ra80V(M. )  Gontzarstvo  u  sell  OposhnT, 
u  Poltavstchinl.  (Mater.  Ukr.-Rus*k. 
Etnol.,  Lviv,  1905,  iv,  4i-59»  "  %s.) 
Treats  of  the  making  of  pottery  in  the 
village  of  Oposhnia,  government  of  Pol- 
tava. The  nature  of  the  clay  used,  the 
various  stages  of  manufacture  (cleans- 
ing, kneading,  turning,  and  firing),  in- 
struments used,  products,  etc.,  are  de- 
scribed. 

Virobi  r  dereva  s.  GrunT  u  Poltav- 
stchinl. (Ibid.,  60-73,  9  fgs. )  Treats 
of  manufacturing  wooden  implements 
(wheels,  spades,  barrels,  and  boxes)  in 
the  village  of  Grune,  government  of  Pol- 
tava. 

Grebinnitztvo  u  sell  GrunI  u  Poltav- 


stchinl. (Ibid.,  74-81,  6fgs. )  Treats 
of  the  manufacture  of  horn  combs  (proc- 
esses, implements,  etc.)  in  the  village 
of  Grune. 

Salminen  (V. )  Die  bedeutung  D.  £.  D. 
Europaeus  in  der  geschichte  der  ein- 
sammlung  finnischer  volkspoesie.  Finn.  - 
Ugr.  Forsch.,  Helsingfors,  1905,  iv, 
134-150.)  Outlines  the  activity  of 
Europaeus  (b.  1820),  whose  great  merit 
is  to  have  collected,  for  the  new  Kale- 
vala,  songs  from  almost  every  rune-local- 
ity and  to  have  inspired  the  youth  of  the 
land  with  the  same  ardor  and  zeal  for 
collection.  His  work  began  in  the  par- 
ish of  Ilomantsi  and  in  five  journeys  he 
procured  for  Ldnnrot  a  folk-lore  mass  of 
ca,  2,500  songs  and  charms, — the  total- 
ity oi  his  collections  amounted  to  over 
3,000  songs. 

Schliz  ( A. ) .  Kanstlich  deformirte  Sch&- 
del  in  germanischen  Reihengrftbem. 
(Corr.-Bl.  d.  Deutschen  Ges.  f.  An- 
throp.,  Miinchen,    1904,   xxxiv,    104- 


106. )  Discusses  artificially  deformed 
crania  from  Teutonic  **  Reihengr&ber.** 
Most  of  these  skulls  are  female  and  their 
origin  may  be  connected  with  long- 
hairedness,  according  to  S. — possibly  due 
to  forehead  bands  and  other  like  con- 
strictions, not  for  intentional  deformation 
of  the  skull  but  for  hair  arrangement. 
Binding  the  child*  s  head  to  a  cradle- 
board  may  also  have  been  a  factor  in 
some  deformations. 

Schoetentack  (O. )  Ueber  neolithische 
Tonge&ssscheiben  des  Perm-livUndi- 
schen  Typus  und  iiber  Kieselartefakte 
von  Palkino,  russ.  Gouvemement  Perm. 
(Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii,  357- 
362,  35  fgs.)  Describes  fragments  of 
pottery  (neolithic  in  technique  and  or- 
nament) from  Palkino  (Perm)  in  Russia, 
which  remarkably  resemble  pottery  frag- 
ments from  a  shell-heap  in  Levonia, 
2,000  km.  distant.  Also  a  number  of 
flint  arrowheads,  etc.,  some  rare  neo- 
lithic in  form. 

Setmi  ( E.  N. )  Karelisches  alphabet  und 
karelische  schrift  aus  dem  16.  Jahrhun- 
dert.  (Anz.  d.  Finn. -Ugr.  Forsch., 
Helsingfors,  1904,  LV,  55-57.)  Notes 
an  account  by  Simon  von  Salingen  {^ca, 
1591),  a  Dutch  merchant,  of  the  first  at- 
tempt to  reduce  the  Karelian  language 
to  writing.  This  description  was  first 
published  in  1773  in  the  Magazin  fur 
die  neue  Historie  und  GeographU 
(Halle). 

Zur lappischen bibliographie.   (Ibid., 

58-60.)  Points  out  that  the  "Mr  Or- 
lofif,**  minister  at  Pite&,  wasOlaus  Graan, 
author  in  1667  of  several  Lapp  works ; 
the  **Mr  OrlofT**  of  Ume  was  Olaus 
Stephani  Graan  (d.  1690). 

und  KarjAlainen  (K.  F.)    Statis- 


tische  Angaben  flber  die  finnen  und  lap- 
pen  in  Norwegen.  (Ibid.,  65-71.)  Ri- 
sum6s  and  discusses  statistics  of  Finns 
and  Lapps.  According  to  the  Nor- 
wegian census  of  1900,  there  was  2,548 
Norwegian-speaking  Finns  and  4,053 
Norwegian -speaking  Lapps;  the  Nor- 
wegian-speaking Finns  were  4,766, 
Lapps,  14,589.  Of  the  Lapps  1,202 
were  nomads.  Mixed  marriages  are 
common.  The  Finns  seem  to  be  losing 
in  number  more  than  the  Lapps,  but  the 
number  of  nomad  Lapps  has  decreased. 
Severo  (R.)  Os  braceletes  d'ouro  de 
Amozella.  (Portugalia,  Porto,  1905, 
II,  63-71,  I  pi.  12  fgs.)  Treats  of  20 
gold  bracelets  (three  ornamented)  from 
the  parish  of  Amozella  and  compares 


714 


AMESICAX  ANTUROFOLOCIST 


Cn->-.; 


Ihon  with  limiUr  objrcti  (oand  else-  j 
where.  They  •re  probably  of  Iberian  I 
origin,  or  perhipi  partly  Celtic 

Oi   torques   de    Almojier.      ( Ibid., 

72-74,  1  fg. )  Describes  the  gold  col- 
lars (turigues)  from  Almosler,  now  in  the 
Portuguese  Ethnological  Museum,  prob- 
ably iKlonging  to  the  bronie  age.  The 
form  is  ((uile  primitive.  \ 

Novas  decobertas    de    ouritersaria   | 

pcolo-historica.    (Ibid.,  109-110).    E>e-   I 
scribes  briefly    the  ler^uts   of  Serraies, 
the  bracelet  of  TellAes,  both  specimens 
of  ptoto- historic  gold-work,  representing 

O  cemiterio  romano  do  Monle  do 

Peoou^o,  kio  Tinto.     (Ibid.,  111-113, 

3    fgs. )      Ilrief  account   of  the    Roman    1 
buriai-pUce  and  its  contents  (some  clay   | 
vessels  &  glass  rase,   a  bronze  whorl,    . 
etc.).  discovered  in  January,  1905. 
8«ven>  ( k. )     I^s  dolmens  de  Villa-Fouca 
d'A(piiar.     Trai-os-Montes.       Questions 
d'aulheniiciit.    (Ibid.,  1 13-117.)   Cites   j 
opinions  of  European  archeoli^ials  as  to    ' 
■he  character  and  importance  of  the  finds 
of  Villa- Pouca-d'Aguiar,  the  genuineness 
of  which  some  authorities  (  Reinach,  Car-    I 
tailhac)  have  doubted.     Others  (Aslleyj 
have    recogniied   parallels  with    similar 
discoveries   in  Scotland.      S.    holds  Ihal    j 
these  tinds   represent   a  genuine  Iberic   1 

Museu  municipal  "Aiuiga."'  (Ibid.,   | 

117-IT9.  1  fg. )     Brief  account  of  coO' 

tents  of  new  munidpal  museum  at  Gaya, 
named  after  the  zealous  collector  of 
archcoli^cal  objects  (presented  to  it). 
Matciano  Agua^a.  A  dewription  of  the 
silver  tt'raars  of  Cortinhas  (S.  Mamede 
de  Kiba  Tua)  is  aUdcd.  The  Urquri^Tt 
of  a  1>*{W  that  survived  in  Roman 
Hispania. 

O   ihewurfj  de    Ubu«o.     (Ibid., 

I-I4,  1  pi.,  S  fgs. )  Describes  an  orna- 
mented gold-leaf  bracelet,  some  frag- 
ments of  a  wristlet,  pieces  of  two  torques, 
etc.,  found  in  the  parish  of  I^bu^Ao,  4 
leagues  from  Nascent  de  Cbaves  as  a 
result  of  excavaling  in  a  vineyard. 
These  objects,  probably  the  work  of  one 
metallurgisi,   may   lielong  lo  the  5-4th 


lat,  but 


likely  tl 


within 


(he  Roman  period  proper. 
ShUhkevitch  ( M. )  VIrib  olT)-n  na  VolinI 
V  Galitchinl.  (Mater.  Ukr.-Rus'k. 
Etnol.,  I.viv,  190S,  IV,  94-99,  3  f(.5. ) 
Describes  the  making  of  oil  in  Galician 
Volhynia,  —  preparation  of  seeds,  grind- 


See  I.itBrmat.-a-BarUik, 

SlebsfT.)  Scfalesucbe  nuniuien-  (Mic 
d.  Sdiles.  Ges.  t  Volksk.,  Biesin 
1905,  VI.  113-115.)  Gi(cseiaa>pieti 
▼illage-Reld  names  6001  Seidcrt'  ni 
Dcighborhood.  ImDorlant  data  ttcuik- 
lore. 

StiKh*  (T. )  Sogen  *om  Alp  ntd  do 
weisscn  Fnn.  (Ibid..  99-ioi.t  Civo 
brief  legends  ukI  stories  relating  to  At 
night-marc  mnd  the  "while  wooui" 
from  Schebiu,  Klein -Ellgnih,  Mahnia. 
Ersdorf,    RAbitor.    Taroovitz,    etc,   la 

TelMira    (T.)      Folk-lore   1 

(Porlugalia,  Pbrto.  1905,  11,  io7-i[».) 
Gives  specimens  of  follc-soop  and  podij 
from  BragaiLEa,   Macores,  etc 

Tetnier  (F.)  Zur  Volksknnde  der  Sfe- 
waken.  Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905. 
Lxxxvii.  376-380,  10  fgs.)  Treaaa 
the  Slovaks  — the  southernmost  scctka 
of  the  Ciech- Moravian- Slo\-ak  siod  — 
their  dress,  houses  and  fumilore,  bra- 
arrangements,  grave  -  ornaments,  eic- 
Nol  many  of  the  old  costoms  now  sorrivt 
(weddings  retain  a  few),  contact  with 
their    German    neighbors    has  abolisliid 

Thorn..  (PF.)  Folk-lore  Beir^o.  (Por- 
tugalw^  Porto,  1905,  „.  ,08.)  Gives 
teils  of  prayers  and  religious  poems  ftnm 
Beira  Alia,  wnong  them  .  "  l.ttle  Pkta 
C^";.  '^'*    Maria,"    "little 

Thon  (J.)  Die  jUdischen  Gemeinden  to 
Deutschland.  (Z  f.  Demtwr.  u.  Stat  d- 
Juden.  Berm.  ,905,  ,,  Hft.  9.  ,-9.) 
Contains  religious  stalistics.  The  bes 
eltention  lo  religious  services  is  paid  hy 
Ihe  Jews  of  Alsace-Lorraine,  Bavaria  and 
the  other  South-German  slates  ■  of  the 
Prusaan  provinces.  Hesse-Xassau,  Posen 

VMdetWiii  (A^)  OlKnl  u  rivnitchno- 
schidniT Gahlchinl.  (Mater.  Ukr -Rus'k. 
Etnol.  Lviv,  1905,  VI.  89-91' 4  fEs.1 
Describes  oil-making  (hemp  and  flu) 
in  northeaslcm  Galicia.  A  morur 
worked  by  fool  is  used.  _  ,hr  old  press 
was  by  wedges,  the  modem  by  screw 
The  "  flour  "  is  roasted,  put  in  a  bag  and 

VoIkOT  (T.)  Virobi  peredmikensikovo 
liru  11  neomitchnich  stanovistchach  na 
Ukrainl.  (It>id..(  l)-(27),  map.  )  LisLv 
With  note?  and  map.  45  neoliihic  "  sta- 
tions"  In  the  Ukraine.      An  abstract  of 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL   LITERATURE 


715 


this  article  was  reviewed  in   the  Ameri- 
can Anthropologist^  1902,  N.  s.,  778. 

▼om  Walde  fP.)  Lock-  und  Scheuch- 
namen  fUr  Haustiere.  (Mitt.  d.  Schles. 
Ges.  f.  Volksk.,  Breslau,  1905,  vi,  iio- 
112.)  Lists  names  used  to  call  and  drive 
away  domestic  animals  in  Silesia,  — 
geese,  ducks,  hens,  doves,  horses,  cows, 
calves,  goats,  sheep,  swine,  dogs,  cats. 

Werner  \llr)  Ueber  primitives  Hand- 
werkzeug.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905, 
XXXVII,  355-357,  3  fgs.)  Describes 
**  shin  bones  "  of  animals  used  by  butcher 
in  skinning  dead  animals  ;  part  of  tongue- 
bone  of  cow  used  by  butchers  in  cleansing 
tripe  ;  bone  used  by  saddlers  in  imposing 
pieces  of  leather  one  upon  another  ;  bone 
used  for  smoothing  by  hand-weavers  ;  a 
hair-ball  from  the  stomach  of  a  cow,  used 
by  a  carpenter  to  polish  wood  ;  a  small 
stone  ax  found  in  a  Held  by  a  peasant 
who  added  a  wooden  handle  and  used  it 
for  several  years. 

Zubritzki  ( M. )  Godivlya  kumo  i  pro- 
dazh  ovetz'  u  Mshantzl  starosambirs' - 
kovo  povitu.  (Mater.  Ukr.-  Rus'k. 
Etnol.,  Lviv,  1905,  iv,  1-40,  5  figs.) 
Treats  of  sheep  raising  and  selling  in 
the  village  of  Mshanetz,  district  of 
Staro-Samvir  in  Galicia.  Winter,  sum- 
mer, and  autumn  care  of  flocks ;  hous- 
ing of  shepherds  and  sheep  ;  bringing 
up  of  lambs;  milking  and  disposal  of 
milk  products  ;  use  of  wool,  etc. ;  prop- 
erty marks. 

AFRICA 

Ankermann  (B. )     Kulturkreise  und  Kul- 
turschichten  in  Afrika.     (Z.   f.    Ethn., 
Berlin,   1905,  xxxvii,  54-90,  5  maps.) 
Discusses    culture-areas     and    culture- 
strata  with   respect   to  distribution    of 
house-forms,     weapons     (spear,     bow, 
arrow,  club,  sword,  sling,  shield,  etc.), 
clothing  and  ornament,  mutilation,  cir- 
cumcision, musical    instruments,   *'  pil- 
low,'* basketry,  social  organization,  iron 
smelting.     The  following  culture-areas 
are  recognized  :  West   African  ( against 
which  may  be  set  ofl*  all  the  rest  of  the 
continent   except  Madagascar,    south  of 
the    Sahara,   in  some   respects).  South 
Africa  (to  the  Zambesi  and  the  Kunene), 
East  African  (from  the  Zambesi  to  the 
Tana),  the  eastern  horn  (with  Abyssinia) 
the   upper  Nile   region,  the  rest  of  the 
Sudan  ( with  a  western  and  eastern  prov- 
ince).    The  culture-strata  distinguished 
are :    Nigritian     (  partly    pan- African, 


partly  local),  corresponding  to  the  old- 
est Australian  stratum  ;  West  African, 
corresponding  to  the  east  Papuan,  and 
probably  originating  from  Indonesia  ;  a 
stratum  (of  Indonesian  origin)  corre- 
sponding to  the  west  Papuan  ;  a  stratum 
(finding  analogies  in  Hindustan)  rep- 
resented chiefly  in  the  western  Soudan  ; 
a  Hamitic,  or  old  Semitic,  stratum  in 
the  Sudan,  East  and  South  Africa  ;  a 
modem  Semitic  (Arabic)  in  the  same  re- 
gions as  the  last.  The  cultural  depend- 
ence of  Africa  upon  Asia,  is,  according 
to  A.,  very  marked,  both  for  the  western 
and  the  southern  regions  of  that  conti- 
nent. A.  does  not  attribute  the  origin  of 
iron-smelting  to  the  negro.  The  Sudan 
culture  had  both  western  and  eastern  fac- 
tors. Important  for  culture  in  the  south 
African  area  is  the  foreign  (south  Ara- 
bian )  people  of  the  gold  country  between 
Zambesi  and  the  Limpopo. 

Elmendorf  (D.  L.)  The  edge  of  the 
desert.  (Scribner's  Mag.,  N.  Y.,  1905, 
xxxviii,  319-330,  16  fgs. )  Treats  of 
El  Djem,  the  Roman  Thysdrus  or  Thys- 
dritana  Colonia,  its  great  amphitheater, 
etc.,  and  Timgad  (ancient  Thamgudi^ 
now  being  excavated  by  the  French 
government. 

Hall  ( R.  R. )  Paleolithic  implements  from 
the  Thebald.  (Man,  Lond.,  1905,  v, 
33-37,  I  pi.  2  fgs.)  Discusses  briefly 
views  of  Beadnell,  Schweinfurth,  Blanck- 
enhom,  etc.,  and  describes  flints  (obtained 
in  1904  by  author  and  Mr  E.  R.  Ayrton) 
in  comparison  with  British  paleoliths. 
H.  finds  evidence  of  water-erosion  at 
Thebes.  The  desert  surface  where  the 
best  implements  were  found  was  "evi- 
dently very  ancient  and  undisturbed, 
everything,  limestone  as  well  as  flints, 
being  black  with  weathering.'*  At  p. 
72  H.  has  another  brief  note  on  the 
subject 

The   eady   occurrence   of    iron    in 

Egypt.  ( Ibid. ,  69-7 1 . )  H.  holds  that 
"worked  iron  was  known  to  the  Eg)rpt- 
ians  as  early  as  the  days  of  the  Old 
Empire."  Also  that  the  Great  PjTamid 
fragment  of  iron  is  contemporaneous 
with  the  pyramid  itself.  The  word  ba 
("metal,"  originally)  was  used  also  at 
an  early  period  in  the  sense  of  "  iron.'* 
It  is  not  inherently  improbable  that  iron 
was  occasionally  used  in  Egypt  at  an 
early  period,  far  earlier  than  in  Europe. 
Many  negro  tribes  have  worked  iron  from 
time  immemorial  and  have  never  passed 
through  a  copper  age.     The  knowledge 


J 


7i6 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


of  worked  iron  may  have  reached  Egypt 
from  inner  Africa. 

Hobley  (C.  W. )  Further  notes  on  the  £1 
Dorobo  or  Oggiek.  (Ibid.,  39-44.) 
Brief  notes  on  tribes,  list  of  clans,  com- 
parative vocabularies  of  some  140  words 
m  several  dialects.  Also  vocabulary  of 
50  words  (Neuman)  from  the  isolated 
Mogogodo.  The  Dorobo,  seen  by  the 
author  in  1891,  are  forest  hunters  —  the 
Digiri  clan  are  bearded  and  have  a  female 
chief. 

Hollia  (A.  C. )  Masai  ear-ring  of  stone. 
( Ibid. ,  22,  I  fg. )  Describes  stone  ear- 
ring used  by  Masai  boy  of  14  to  distend 
ear-lobe.  The  ear-lobes  are  considered 
right  when  they  meet  on  top  of  the  head. 

HOMfeld  ( C. )  Ein  Heitrag  zur  ostafrika- 
nischen  Lyrik.  Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
Lxxxviii,  82-83. )  Oives  texts,  music, 
and  translations  of  four  brief  songs 
(slave,  girl,  young  man,  child)  of  the 
Wanyamwesi  of  eastern  Africa. 

Joyce  (T.  A. )  Steatite  figures  from  West 
Africa  in  the  British  Museum.  (Man, 
Lond.,  1905,  V,  97-100,  I  pi.,  2  figs.) 
Describes  two  recently  acquired  soap- 
stone  figures  from  Mendiland,  *<one  of 
which  is  not  only  an  unusually  well-fin- 
ished example,  but  in  design,  as  far  as  I 
am  aware  unique" — the  human  figure 
is  recumbent  on  an  oblong  plinth.  An- 
other unique  figure  (seated  native)  fix>m 
Mendiland  is  also  described.  These  im- 
ages, called  nomon\  or  "farm  devils," 
have  some  connection  with  the  agricul- 
tural rites  and  beliefs.  They  are  prob- 
ably due  to  a  local  and  indigenous  art. 
J.  thinks  that  "many  small  points  of 
correspondence  between  civilized  Egypt 
and  savage  Africa  may  be  explained  by 
this  very  natural  assumption  of  a  com- 
mon ethnographical  element,  indigenous 
in  character." 

Kyle  ( M.  G. )  Egyptian  antiquities  in  the 
Free  Museum  of  Science  and  Art  of  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania.  (Rec.  of 
Past,  Wash.,  1905,  iv,  259-266,  10  figs. ) 
Treats  of  the  Mena  tablet  of  ebony  (one 
of  the  oldest  wood-carvings  in  the  world ), 
the  stele  of  Qa-Sen  (first  dynasty),  a 
large  alabaster  vase  of  Kha-Sekhenn 
(second  dynasty),  a  fragment  of  burnt 
ivory  with  inscription,  early  burial  cases, 
an  ancient  door-socket,  {>ainted  pottery, 
portrait  panels  from  early  Christian  cof- 
fins, etc. 

Lang  (A.)  The  religion  of  the  Fans. 
(Man,  Lond.,  1905,  y,  54-55-)  Rf- 
sum^  and  critique  of  article  on  same  topic 


by  E.  Alldgret  in  the  Jievue  de  V  Hii- 
toire  des  Religions  for  Sept. -Oct,  1904, 
which  '*  tends  to  confirm  my  own  ideas 
about  early  religion."  L.  believes  that 
«*  everywhere  we  find  traces  of  the  All- 
Father  belief  yelding,  among  the  Kait- 
ish,  to  the  Alcheringa  and  evolatiooary 
hypothesis  ;  among  the  Fans,  to  ancestor 
worship,  and  apparently  extinct  among 
the  Arunta  and  other  northern  tribes." 
The  African  Fans  and  the  Australian 
Kaitish  are  held  by  L.  to  support  his 
views. 

Mochi  (A.)  Lo  scheletro  di  un  Dancalo 
di  Assab.  (A.  p.  PAnthrop.,  Firenie, 
1904,  XXXIV,  403-428,  I  pi.  )  Describes, 
with  details  of  measurements,  skull,  long- 
bones,  pelvis,  etc,  development  of  mns- 
cular  system,  etc.,  of  an  adult  Danakil 
(skeleton  found  in  1882  near  Assab). 
The  stature  (estimated)  is  1745  mm., 
limbs  long,  skull  mesaticephalic  (78.9), 
capacity  1475  c.c.  Dr  M.  considers 
that  negro  admixture  is  not  present,  — 
the  race  is  relatively  purely  represented. 

Mnllen  (B.  H. )  Fetishes  firom  landana, 
South-west  Africa.  (Ibid.,  102-104,2 
fgs. )  Brief  account  of  mangaka  (wood 
male  figure),  a  men's  fetish,  and  Koio 
(wood  figure  of  dog  with  head  at  each 
end),  a  woman's  fetish.  The  prepara- 
tion and  use  of  fetishes  are  described. 

Neriiison  ( H.  W. )  The  new  slave  trade. 
(Harper's  Mo.  Mag.,  N.  Y.,  1905,  cxi, 
341-350.  535-544.  16  %s. )  First  two 
sections  (down  the  west  coast.  West  Af- 
rican plantation  life  to-day)  of  article 
giving  results  of  author's  investigation  df 
the  slave  trade  still  existing  in  Africa. 

Oestliche  (Die)  Elfenbeinkttste.  (Globus 
Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxvii,  387-393,  6 
fgs.)  Contains  notes  on  the  Attic  of 
Alepe,  Mope,  etc.,  whose  funeral  cus- 
toms are  described.  The  Attif  make  a 
soap  from  the  ashes  of  banana- skins  and 
palm-oil.  Every  village  has  a  black- 
smith. The  white  men  are  believed  to 
live  under  water,  where  they  have  no 
women  and  the  natives  fear  they  may  lose 
theirs. 

Thomson  (A.)  Composite  photographs 
of  early  Egyptian  skulls.  (Man,  1905, 
V,  65-^7,  I  pi. )  Notes  on  composite 
photographs  of  12  negroid  males ;  26 
non-negroid  males  ;  1 1  negroid  females  ; 
16  non-negroid  females,  from  the  ancient 
Thebald.  Non -homogeneity  of  popu- 
lation seems  clearly  indicated  by  the 
characteristic  differences  in  the  facial 
features. 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


717 


Note  on    Dr.    Keith's    review  of 

"The  Ancient  Races  of  the  Thebald." 
(Ibid.,  101-102. )  T.  reasserts  his  be- 
lief in  the  racial  heterogeneity  (negroid, 
non-negroid)  of  the  skulls  in  question. 

ASIA 

Anttin  (O.  P.)  The  commercial  prize  of 
the  Orient  ( Nat  Geogr.  Mag.,  Wash., 
1905,  XVI,  399-423»  »9.  %s.)  Calls 
attention  to  the  "extraordinary  physical 
difficulties  which  have  attended  efforts  of 
the  Occident  to  cultivate  commerce  be- 
tween these  two  great  sections  of  the 
world,  and  the  difficulties  which  still 
exist  in  the  Orient  itself,  but  which  are 
likely  to  be  overcome  in  the  near  future." 
Without  transportation  there  can  be  no 
commerce. 

Biasntti  (R. )  II  Tibet  secondo  una  vec- 
chia  relazione  italiana.  ( A.  p.  1'  Antrop. , 
Firenre,  1904,  xxxiv,  453-459. )  R6. 
sum6s  and  discusses  C.  Puini's  recent 
publication  //  Tibet  {geografia^  storia^ 
religioney  costumi)  secondo  la  relazione 
del  viaggio  del  P.  Ippolito  Desideri^ 
1815-1721  (Roma,  1904). 

Blanckenhoni  ( D.  M. )  Ueber  die  Stein- 
zeit  und  die  Feuersteinartefakte  in  Syrien- 
Pal&stina.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905, 
XXXVII,  447-471,  17  fgs.)  TieaU  of 
the  stone  age  and  flint  artefacts  in  Syria- 
Palestine.  Five  modes  of  occurrence  are 
noted  :  Surface  of  plateaus  or  sides  of 
mountains  (older  paleolithic,  but  parti- 
ally also  genuine  eolithic)  ;  costal  plain 
(half  paleolithic,  half  neolithic)  ;  valleys 
(mostly  late  paleolithic,  or  even  later); 
caves  or  grottos  (paleolithic  and  neo- 
lithic); beneath  surface  at  places  of  fixed 
settlement  (neolithic  to  iron  age).  A 
sixth  category  (beginning  with  the 
bronze  age)  might  be  added  for  those 
coming  from  certain  graves,  e.  g.,  in 
Samaria).  These  various  types  are  dis- 
cussed with  some  detail  and  the  particular 
localities  of  their  occurrence  Indicated. 
B.  recognizes  10  different  periods  in  the 
history  of  man  in  Syria  up  to  the  Chris- 
tian era :  Eolithic,  older  paleolithic 
(Chell6an),  middle  paleolithic  (Mouster- 
ian  and  lower  Solutrean  or  Ebumean), 
late  paleolithic  (Magdalenian),  early 
neolithic  (ca.  10,000-5,000  B.  c. ),  late 
neolithic  \ca,  5,000-2,000  B.  c. )  bronze 
age  (2,000-1,250  B.  c. ),  beginning  of 
iron  age  (1,250-1,050  B.  c.J,  period  of 
Israelitic  kingdom  (1050-TOO  B.  c), 
period  of  foreign  rules  and  of  the  Mac> 


cabae  (600  B.  c.  to  Christian  era).  The 
characteristics  of  each  age  are  briefly 
given. 

Braithwaite  (E.  E.)  The  Semitic  Mu- 
seum of  Harvard  University.  (Rec.  of 
Past,  1905,  IV,  243-251,  6  fgs.)  Brief 
account  of  museum  and  contents  (library, 
Assyrian  room,  oldest  material.  Biblical 
material,  miscellaneous,  Palestinian 
room), —  "a  magnificent  collection  of 
Semitic  material  so  finely  housed  and  so 
splendidly  arranged. ' ' 

Brown  (J.  B. )  The  Great  Wall  of  China. 
(Proc.  Delaware  Co.  Inst.  Sci.,  Media, 
Pa.,  1905,  I,  2-7. )  General  description. 
Author  visited  it  near  Shan  Hai  Quan 
on  the  Pechelee  gulf,  27  years  ago. 

Cordel  {Hr)  Ueber  die  Ausstellung  der 
von  der  Turfan- Expedition  mitgebrachten 
Sammlung.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905, 
XXXVII,  412-414.)  Brief  notes  on  the 
collection  of  Prof.  Griinwedel  and  Dr 
Huth  from  Turfan,  —  reprinted  from  the 
Vossische  Zeilung  oi  ¥(h,  21,  1905. 

Dentschen  (Die)  Grabungen  in  Babylon 
und  Assur.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
Lxxxviii,  124-126.)  Risum^s  Andrae's 
report  on  his  excavations  in  Assur  (graves, 
building-technique  and  material,  sculp- 
ture, metallurgy,  tiling,  etc. ),  published 
in  the  Milteilungen  der  Deutschen  Orient- 
Gesellschaft. 

Eatter  (J.)  Archeological  discoveries  as 
related  to  the  Bible.  (Rec.  of  Past, 
Wash.,  1905,  IV,  234-241.)  Treats  of 
identification  of  places,  facts  explanatory 
and  confirmatory  of  Bible  statements,  in- 
telligence of  the  ancients,  etc. 

SI  win  (A.)  Ancestral  worship.  (J.  of 
Trans.  Victoria  Inst.,  Lond.,  1904, 
xxxvi,  67-84.)  Treats  of  ancestral 
worship  as  the  religion  of  the  Chinese, 
from  the  Christian  point  of  view. 

Gilbert  (O.)  Die  Kelischin-Stele  und 
ihre  chaldish-assyrischen  Keilinschriften. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,  lxxxviii, 
31.)  R6sum6s  article  by  Dr  W.  Belck 
in  Anatole  (Vol.  I,  Hfl.  i),  a  new 
journal  devoted  to  the  scientific  investi- 
gation of  the  Orient.  The  inscription  in 
question  is  purely  religious,  relating  to 
the  god  Chaldis. 

Giovannozi  (U.)  Crani  arabi  del  Museo 
Antropologico  di  Firenze.  (A.  p. 
r Antrop.,  Firenze,  1904,  xxxiv,  333- 
353»  I  fg-)  Describes,  with  measure- 
ments, 3  male  and  3  female  crania,  from 
the  Sinai  peninsula,  collected  by  de 
Langier  and  presented  to  the  Museum  in 
1894-96.     Of  these  skulls  3  are  brachy- 


7i8 


AMERICAS  AXTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


cephals  and  3  dolichocephals,  indicating 
that  the  Arabs  of  this  region  are  not  an 
unmixed  race. 

Hawe's  Wanderungen  auf  Sachalin. 
(Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxviii, 
59-62,  7  fgs. )  Kdsum^s  the  facts  re- 
lating to  Saghalin  in  the  German  trans- 
lation (/to  AussfrsUn  Ostefiy  Berlin, 
1905)  of  C.  H.  Ilawe's  recent  book  of 
travels  from  Korea  to  Saghalin. 

Hontixigton  (£. )  Climate  and  history  of 
eastern  Persia  and  Sistan.  (Rec.  of 
Past,  Wash.,  1905,  iv,  205-219,  4  fgs.) 
Treats  of  ancient  climate,  Alexander's 
march,  desiccation  of  ancient  ruins  ( Neh, 
Merv,  Balkuwi,  Anau),  cause  of  depopu- 
lation of  Iran,  legends,  etc.  Reprinted 
from  the  author's  Explorations  in  Tur- 
kestan. 

K.  (W. )  Eine  chineische  Badenstalt  in 
Kautschou.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
Lxxxviii,  27-29,  5  fgs.)  Describes  a 
Chinese  bathing  establishment  in  Kiau- 
tchan.  Author  thinks  Chinese  less  un- 
cleanly than  is  commonly  believed. 

Lanfer  (B. )  Chinesische  Altertiimer  in 
der  rftmischen  Epoche  der  Rheinlande. 
(Ibid.,  45-49,  2  fgs.)  Treats  of  seem- 
ingly Chinese  vases,  etc.,  from  finds  of 
the  Roman  period  in  various  parts  of  the 
Rhine  country  (four  vessels  found  near 
the  Porta  in  1 829  ;  an  ornamented  vase 
found  near  Harzheim  in  1846,  contain- 
ing a  small  bronze  figure  of  Hindu 
origin).  L.  considers  these  to  have 
reached  the  Occident  in  the  way  of  com- 
merce rather  than  to  have  come  with 
some  Asiatic  legion. 

Lissauer  (A.)  Die  Schadel  aus  Turfan. 
(Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii,  421- 
432,  1 1  fgs. )  Describes,  with  measure- 
ments, three  (skulls,  two  adult,  one 
child)  from  burial-places  in  Idikutshari, 
Chinese  Turkestan.  One  of  the  skulls 
belongs  to  the  Uigurs  — the  others  in  all 
probability  also  are  of  this  Turkish  type 
—  and  represents  this  people  in  its  prim- 
itive home.  The  cephalic  indices  are  re- 
spectively 90.6,  90.1,  80.1. 

Martin  (W.  A.  P. )  An  ancient  tablet  at 
Wuchang.  (  Record  of  Past,  Wash., 
1905,  IV,  275-276,  I  fg. )  Brief  account 
of  stone  tablet  with  inscription  in  honor 
of  Yu  Wong,  whose  engineering  exploits 
are  said  to  have  been  achieved  ca.  2300 
B.  c.  The  monument  is  not  genuine, 
but  goes  back  to  1000  H.  c. 

Miiller  (  F.  W.  K. )  Kine  chinesische 
Wcltkarte.  ( Z.  f.  Klhn.,  Berlin,  1905, 
XXXVII,  366. )     Note  on  a  Chinese  map 


I 


of  the  world  (now  in  the  Berlin  Moseom 
fiir  Vdlkerkunde),  dating  from  1674  A. 
D.,  found  in  1900  in  the  Pekin  Oberra- 
tory. 

Uebcr  die  knltur-  and  sprachgeschicht- 

liche  Bedeutung  eines  Teiles  der  Tur^ 
Handschriften.  (Ibid., 414-415.)  Enoni- 
erates  the  chief  t3rpes  of  Mss.  in  the  Grun- 
wedel  —  Huth  collection  from  Turfan :  I. 
Chinese  texts  ( Buddhist  sutras  from  the 
Tang  period    6-9    century   B.  c).     2. 
The   remarkable    writing  (beginning  of 
nth  century  A.   D. )   of   the    Si-Hia  or 
Tangut.     3.  The   rune-like    writing  ot 
the   K6k-Turkish  fragments.     4.  Fng- 
ments  in  Fags-pa   writing    (variety  of 
Tibetan  during   Mongol   lordship).    5. 
Fragments  in  Uigur  writing,  partly  in  an 
Iranian  language.     6.    Ms.  in  Mongolian 
writing  (derived  from  Uigur  >.   7.    Frag- 
ments in  the  common  Tibetan  writing. 
8.  Fragments  in  Syrian -Nestorian  writ- 
ing, proof  of  the  existence  of  Christian 
colonies   in    Turkestan.      9.   Fragments 
in  a  modification  of  the  Syrian  Estran- 

felo  writing  in  three  different  languages 
^ehlevi,  Sogdianian,  and  old  Turkish. 

Offord  (J.)  Recent  discoveries  in  west- 
em  Asia.  (  Amer.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1905, 
XVII,  1-5. )  Notes  on  investigations  and 
publications  of  Toscanne  (  statues  of 
Gudca),  Fossy  (Assyrian  magical  texts). 
King  (records  of  Tukulti  Ninib),  de 
Morgan,  van  Brauteghem  ( Elamite  sut- 
ues),  Johns,  Hilprecht,  and  Clay  (Assy- 
rian deeds,  business  documents,  etc. ). 

The  omen  and  portent  tablets  of  the 

Assyrians  and  Babylonians.  ( Ibid.,  69- 
72. )  R6sum6s  data  on  animal  omens 
(forecasts),  auguries  from  fire,  dream>, 
changing  colors  of  water,  etc.,  in  A.  Bos- 
sier's recent  Choix  de  textes  relatifs  d 
la  divination  Assyro-babylanienne. 

Oppert  (G.)  Die  Gottheiten  der  Indier. 
(Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii,  296- 
353. )  First  part  of  an  elaborate  and  de- 
tailed description  and  discussion  of  the 
deities  of  the  Hindus  and  their  chief 
characteristics.  After  an  introductory 
chapter  on  the  peoples  of  India,  Dr  O. 
treats  the  Vedic  theogony  of  the  Aryans 
in  India,  each  deity  being  taken  up,  with 
more  or  less  detail,  by  name  and  title. 
In  very  early  prehistoric  times  non- Aryan 
ideas  seem  to  have  influenced  the  thought 
of  the  Hindus,  —  the  effect,  e.  <-..  is  seen 
in  the  figure  of  the  goddess  Aditi. 

Proctor    (H.)     Elohim :    The    object    of 
primeval     worship.      (Amer.       Antiq., 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


719 


Chicago,  1905,  XXVII,  33-34.)  P. 
argues  that  the  term  Elohim  expresses  a 
**  compound  unity  "  of  the  Godhead,  not 
an  absolute  unity,  —  "the  Christian  idea 
of  the  Godhead  is  far  nearer  to  that  taught 
by  Moses,  and  in  the  whole  Hebrew 
Tanach,  than  the  Jewish  conception  of 
the  present  day.** 

The  Hebrew  alphabet     (Ibid.,  97- 


98.)  Argues  that  the  Hebrew  sacred 
square  characters  did  not  descend  from 
the  Phenician  alphabet,  but  were  "di- 
rectly derived  from  hieroglyphic  objects, 
the  names  of  which  they  still  bear.*' 

Schmidt  (H.)  Eine  kleine  silbeme 
Schale.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905, 
XXXVII,  438. )  Describes  a  small  silver 
vessel  ifrom  Bokhara,  ornamented  with 
figures  from  Greco- Roman  mythology. 
The  vessel  must  have  reached  central 
Asia  from  the  Occident  about  the  time  of 
the  early  Roman  empire. 

Starr  (F. )  Ainu  terms  of  relationship. 
(Amer.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1905,  xxvii, 
99-101.)  Gives  56  terms  ( father  .  .  . 
great-great-granddaughter)  of  relation- 
ship obtained  in  1904  from  the  Ainu  at 
the  St  Louis  exposition.  Compares 
these  with  Morgan's  Ganowanian  and 
Turanian  classification.  S.  observes 
"  the  Ainu  system  is  not  a  good  example 
of  the  Turanian  classificatory  form,  al- 
though it  presents  two  of  its  most  strik- 
ing indicative  features,  the  eighth  and 
tenth.** 

StOnner  (Hr)  Ueber  die  kultur-  und 
sprachgeschichtliche  Bedeutung  der 
BHlhmltexte  in  den  Turfan-Hand- 
schriften.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905, 
XXXVII,  415-420. )  These  Brfthml  texts 
(used  for  Sanskrit  writings  350  B.  c.  to 
350  A.  D.),  written  in  alphabets,  the 
precursors  of  the  so-called  "northern 
alphabets,*'  to  which  goes  back  the  later 
Nagan,  the  form  of  writing  most  com- 
monly used  for  Sanskrit,  are  of  great  im- 
portance for  the  history  of  Buddhism. 
Among  the  fragments  in  question  is  a 
Sanskrit  canon  of  the  Turkestan  Bud- 
dhists. These  fragmentary  MSS.  also  prove 
the  existence  of  an  "Old  Turkish** 
language.  The  block-prints  are  likewise 
valuable  and  interesting. 

Thompson  (R.  C.)  A  note  on  Sinaitic 
antiquities.  (Man,  Lond.,  1905,  v, 
87-91,  6  fgs. )  Describes  the  ruins  of 
the  Egyptian  temple  to  Hator,  near  the 
turquoise  mines  at  Sar&bit  el-Khadm, 
explored  as  early  as  1845  ^7  ^^  Lepsius 
expedition.     The  number  of  monumental 


stelae  is  large,  —  some  still  stand  in  their 
original  positions.  T.  disputes  Petrie*s 
view  that  the  temple  was  Semitic.  An 
instance  of  modem  Arabic  "fire-jump- 
ing** is  noted.  The  "heart-plant** 
of  Assyrian  incantations,  the  Hyoscyamus 
muticus,  still  grows  in  the  northern  part  of 
the  peninsula. 

Von  Hanoi  nach  Longtscheu.  (Globus, 
Bmschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxviii,  120-124,  5 
fgs. )  R6sum6s  account  by  Henri  Turot 
of  a  journey  from  Hanoi  to  Longtcheu, 
published  in  the  Tour  du  Monde,  Con- 
tains some  notes  on  the  Muong,  etc. 

W.  (R.)  Zur  Anthropologie  der  Mon- 
golen.  ( Ibid.,  49. )  R6sum6s  Birkner's 
paper  with  this  title  noticed  in  the 
American  Anthropologist^    *905»  N.   S., 

VII. 

INDONESIA,    AUSTRALASIA, 
POLYNESIA 

Balfonr  (H.)  Bird  and  human  designs 
from  the  Solomon  islands,  illustrating 
the  influence  of  one  design  over  another. 
(Man,  Lond.,  1905,  v,  81-83,  I  pi.) 
B.  produces  evidence  to  show  that  "  the 
extreme  prognathism  which  prevails  so 
much  in  representations  of  the  human 
form  among  the  coastal  peoples  of  the 
Solomon  islands,  is  due  to  the  influence 
of  the  bird  designs  upon  them,  which  has 
had  the  efiiect  of  causing  an  unnatural 
projection  of  the  facial  region  in  corre- 
spondence with  the  prominent  beak  of 
the  frigate  bird.  *  *  Native  drawings  show 
a  like  influence.  The  well-known 
"canoe-prow  gods**  exhibit  extreme 
prognathism  of  frigate-bird  origin. 

Bolk  (L. )  Das  Gehim  eines  Papum  too 
Neu-Guinea.  (Petr.  Camp.,  Nedrrl. 
Bijdr.  Anat,  Amstd.,  1905,  d.  II,  347- 
366,  12  fgs.)  Detailed  description  of 
the  (preserved)  brain  of  a  Papuan  (died 
of  pneumonia)  from  the  southern  coast  of 
German  New  Guinea.  The  brain  was 
rather  poor  in  convolutions,  but  exhibited 
no  marked  peculiarities  sui  generis  — 
combinations  of  individual  characters 
rather  than  individual  characters  them- 
selves, make  up  the  "foreign**  aspect. 

Costenoble  (H.  H.  L.  W.)  Die  Mari- 
anen.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
Lxxviii,  4-9,  72-81,  92-93»  ^o  %s.) 
Treats  of  physical  features  of  the  islands  ; 
flora  and  fauna ;  population  ( as  evidences 
of  a  former  pre-Charaorran  people  the 
stone  blocks  and  columns  and  "skull 
caves'*    are  cited),  now  m  mixed  race 


720 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


I  I 


I 

Ml 

.1 


called  Chamorros  ( Spanish-Chamorro- 
Kanaka  -  Tagal  -  Chinese  -  Japanese  -  Ger- 
man, etc. )  —  there  are  besides  lo  pure 
blood  SfMiniards,  icx>  Germans,  200 
Americans  ;  language  ;  religion  ;  man- 
ners and  customs  (effiect  of  Americaniza- 
tion, etc. )  ;  house-building  ;  agriculture 
and  agricultural  implements ;  clothing  ; 
festivals  and  dances  (the  Carolinians  are 
more  socialistic  than  the  Chamorros)  ; 
trade  and  commerce ;  future  of  the 
islands  (a  new  regime  is  needed).  The 
Carolinians  are  in  many  ways  more 
primitive  than  the  Chamorros. 

Edge-Partington  (J.)  Note  on  a  forged 
ethnographical  specimen  from  the  New 
Hebrides.  (Man,  Lond.,  1905,  V,  71- 
72,  I  fg. )  Describes  a  **sort  of  hybrid 
between  a  pig-killing  club  and  a  shell 
adze,"  carved  in  New  Hebridean  style. 
Such  objects  are  made  by  natives  **for 
the  trade." 

Gannett  ( H. )  The  peoples  of  the  Philip- 
pines. (Trans.  Eighth  Intern.  Geogr. 
Congr.,  Wash.,  1905,  671-975,  map.) 
Gives  results  of  Dr  D.  P.  Barrows'  in- 
vestigations for  U.  S.  Census.  G.  agrees 
with  Dr  B.  in  styling  all  Filipinos  (ex- 
cept Negritos,  Chinese,  and  other  immi- 
grants) Malays.  There  are  8  civilized 
and  not  more  than  16  **  wild  "  peoples  ; 
the  number  of  **  tribes  "  and  **  peoples  " 
has  been  exaggerated  both  by  travelers 
and  men  of  science.  Indeed,  **in  the 
ordinary  acceptation  of  the  word  there  is 
absolutely  no  tribal  organization  either 
among  the  civilized  or  wild  people." 
The  most  numerous  people  are  the  Visa- 
yans.  The  Negritos  count  23,000,  the 
Igorols  200,000. 

Gr&bner  (  F. )  Kulturkreise  und  Kultur- 
schichten  in  Ozeanien.  (Z.  f.  Ethnol., 
Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii,  28-53,  6  sm. 
maps.)  Author  distinguishes  five  cul- 
ture areas  and  strata  :  I.  Nigritian  (  Aus- 
tralia and  part  of  Melanesia. )  2.  West 
Papuan.  3.  East  Papuan.  4.  Melan- 
esian.  5.  Polynesian.  The  chief  char- 
acteristics of  each  are  given.  The  old- 
est culture-stratum  is  that  represented  by 
the  Tasmanians  ;  next  comes  the  earliest 
Australian  culture  besides  which  the 
west  and  east  Papuan  have  left  their 
mark  on  the  continent,  all  later  ones 
have  merely  touched  the  northern  coast). 
The  Melanesian  appears  essentially  as  a 
land  culture.  The  historic  period  of 
Oceania  begins,  in  a  way,  with  the  Poly- 
nesian culture,  when  for  the  first  time 
appears  a  pronounced,    unitary  culture 


with  a  strongly  developed  political  ele- 
ment The  Polynesians  came  originally 
from  Asia;  the  Melanesians  Bnd  their 
nearest  analogues  in  the  culture  of  some 
of  the  natives  of  the  Philippines  (per- 
haps also  the  eastern  Himalaya  lands) ; 
the  Nigritic  and  East  Papuan  suggest 
relation  with  Africa.  In  southern  Asia 
**  lies  the  key  for  ethnic  connectioos  be- 
tween Oceania  and  Africa."  The  char- 
acteristics of  the  various  culture-areas, 
etc.,  are  briefly  indicated. 

GrosTenor  (G.  H. )  A  revelation  of  the 
Filipinos.  (Nat.  Geogr.  Mag.,  Wash., 
1905,  XVI,  139-192,  130  fgs.)  Sum- 
marizes U.  S.  census  report  of  March, 
1903.  Population  is  given  as  7,635,426, 
of  which  6,987,686  <<  enjoyed  a  consid- 
erable degree  of  civilization,"  the  re- 
mainder, 647,740,  being  «« wild  people.** 
Except  the  Negritos  all  the  natives  arc 
Malay.  The  amount  of  literacy  is  "  sur- 
prising.** There  are  13,400  ^tfrrrW  or 
villages  averaging  500  {>eople  each.  The 
Ilocans  are  most  migratory. 

Haddon  ( E.  B. )  Note  on  the  people  of 
Borneo.  (Man,  Lond.,  1905,  v,  22-25.) 
Com{>ares  Dr  A.  C.  Haddon*s  studies  oif 
the  natives  of  Sarawak*  with  the  Kohl- 
brttgge-Niewenhuis  data  from  Dutch 
Borneo.  The  ethnc^raphic  conditions 
are  simpler  in  the  latter  region. 

Studies  in  Bomean  decorative  art: 

I.  Patterns  derived  from  the  roots  of  the 
fig-tree.  (Ibid.,  67-69,  4  fgs.)  De- 
scribes patterns  on  bamboo  thread -holder 
derived  from  the  roots  of  the  fwrasitic 
fig-tree  {  Urosfy^ta  sp. ),  which  seem  to 
have  appealed  much  to  the  native  mind. 
Dr  H.  notes  that  **  the  men  usually  affect 
patterns  derived  from  plants,  whereas 
the  designs  employed  by  the  women  to 
decorate  their  cloths  are  mainly  animal 
derivatives."  Moreover,  **  not  only  are 
the  majority  of  the  motives  employed  by 
the  one  sex  entirely  different  from  those 
in  favor  with  the  other,  but  the  treatment 
of  the  motives  is  also  quite  diflferent.** 
Tatuing     at     Hula,     British    New 


Guinea.  (Ibid.,  86-87,  2  fgs.)  De- 
scribes briefly  the  ah  tattooing  (photo- 
graphed by  the  late  A.  Wilkin).  Among 
the  Motu  women  are  richly  tattooed,  men 
less  so.  The  designs  are  painted  on  the 
skin,  then  pricked  in.  In  the  Rigo  dis- 
trict tattooing  on  either  side  of  the  vulva 
is  necessary  for  wifehood. 
Morris  (Margaretta)  The  influence  of 
war  and  of  agriculture  upon  the  religion 
of  Kayans  and   Sea  Dyaks  of  Borneo. 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


721 


(J.  Amcr.  Orient.  Soc.,  N.  Y.,  1904, 
XXV,  231-247. )  The  conflict  in  religion 
of  the  tutelary  spirits  of  war  and  of 
agriculture  represents  a  conflict  in  eco- 
nomic pursuits.  The  author  illustrates 
from  the  religion  of  these  two  native 
tribes  how  war  and  rice-culture,  as 
means  of  livelihood,  necessarily  *'  re- 
quire diflierent  manner  of  life,  diflerent 
laws  and  customs,  diflerent  organization 
of  society,  and  diflerent  personal  quali- 
fications." In  both  tribes  both  activities 
are  well  developed.  Head-worship 
originated  in  conquest  and  its  growth 
parallels  an  increasing  economic  im- 
portance of  war.  The  war  path  leads  to 
the  domination  of  the  fighting  men, 
agriculture  favors  the  women  who  do 
most  of  the  farm  work.  In  Bea  Dyak 
religion  feminine  ideals  are  far  more 
conspicuous ;  with  the  Kayans  the  legen- 
dary heroes  and  gods  are  characteristic- 
ally virile.  With  the  former  the  part 
taken  by  women  in  ritual  is  also  much 
greater.  With  the  Kayans  conquest 
preceded  cultivation ;  the  Sea  Dyaks, 
from  peaceful  agriculturists,  were  taught 
by  the  Malay  to  be  also  seafarers  and 
pirates. 

Parkmaon  (R.)  St.  Matthias  und  die 
Inseln  Keru6  und  Tench.  (Globus, 
Brnschwg.,  1905,  Lxxxviii,  69-72.) 
Notes  of  a  visit  in  April,  1905  (P.  was 
the  first  white  man  to  reach  Keru6  and 
Tench).  Clothing,  weapons,  houses, 
fishing-gear,  canoes,  ornaments,  traflic, 
weaving,  language,  etc.,  are  briefly 
treated.  The  people  of  Tench  are  very 
primitive  and  much  isolated  —  they  do 
not  understand  the  language  of  St  Mat- 
thias. The  Emirau  (of  Keru6),  like  the 
people  of  St  Matthias,  show  more  signs 
of  Micronesian  admixture  than  is  the  case 
in  the  Admiralty  islands. 

Schellong  ( O. )  Einige  Bemerkungen  ttber 
die  Fahrzeuge  ( Kan  us)  der  Papuas  von 
Kaiser  -  Wilhelmsland  (  Neu-Guinea  ) 
und  dem  Bismarck- Archipel.  ( Int.  A.  f. 
Ethnogr.,  Leiden,  1904,  xvi,  176-179, 
5  fgs. )  Describes  the  canoes  of  the 
natives  of  the  N.  E.  coast  of  New  Guinea 
(Finschhafen),  the  Duke  of  York  group, 
and  New  Ireland  (New  Mecklenburg). 
The  boats  of  the  Tami  islanders  are  very 
fine.  In  the  village  of  Lassuck  Dr  S. 
met  with  the  simplest  kind  of  a  boat  — 
three  tree  trunks  bound  together. 

Schmeltz  (J.  I).  E. )  Geklopte  boom- 
schors  als  kleedingstof  op  Midden- 
Celebes.     AnvuUingen  en  verbeteringen. 


(Ibid.,  180-193.)  Additional  data  (and 
correction )  to  those  in  Adriani  and  Kruijt 
article  on  the  same  subject  in  vol.  xiv. 
Comparative  notes  on  the  ethnology  of 
beaten  bark  clothing.  See  American 
Anihropologisty  1902,  N.  S.,  IV,  175. 

Die  St&mme  und  der  Siidkiiste  von 

Niederl&ndisch  Neu-Guinea.  (Ibid., 
194-242,  6  pi.,  3  fgs. )  After  a  historical 
introduction,  Dr  S.  treats  of  the  Tugeri 
and  Toro,  etc.  (position  of  woman  — 
slaves,  clothing  and  ornament,  dwellings 
and  furniture,  food,  weapons,  traflic, 
canoes,  disease,  music,  dance,  etc.). 
Pages  21 1-223  ^c  occupied  by  a  descrip- 
tion of  the  collections  (foods  and  nar- 
cotics, and  objects  used  in  connection 
therewith;  clothing  and  ornament  ;*house- 
omament  and  furniture ;  objects  con- 
cerned in  transportation ;  weapons  and 
tokens  of  peace  and  their  ornamentation  ; 
music)  of  H.  W.  Bauer  and  E.  F.  T. 
Bik  ;  and  226-241,  by  a  Dutch-German- 
S.  O.  New  Guinea  and  S.  O.  New 
Guinea-Dutch-German  vocabulary.  A 
brief  Dutch-German-Tugeri  vocabulary 
is  also  given,  and  on  page  241  a  brief 
comparative  word-list  by  S.  H.  Ray  in 
10  New  Guinea  languages. 

Schmidt  (P.  W. )  Die  Bainingsprache, 
eine  zweite  Papuasprache  auf  Neupom- 
mem.  (Globus,  Brnschwg.,  1905, 
Lxxxvii,  357-358.)  From  peculiarities 
of  personal  and  possessive  pronouns, 
noun  (grammatical  gender,  etc.),  adjec- 
tive, numerals,  verb,  S.  argues  that  the 
Baining  language,  spoken  in  the  mount- 
ains of  the  interior  of  the  Gazelle  penin-r 
sula  in  New  Pomerania  is  of  Papuan 
stock.  There  is  a  very  interesting  class 
of  diminutives  and  augmentatives  in 
Baining.  Its  formations  are  rich  and 
complicated. 

SchoetenMCk  (O.)  Tasmanische  Steinin- 
strumente.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905, 
xxxvii,  362-365,  6  fgs.)  Describes 
briefly  six  stone  implements  near  Hobart, 
Tasmania,  now  in  possession  of  Prof.  G. 
Boehm  of  Freiburg  i.  B.,  their  manufac- 
ture and  use,  etc.  The  Tasmanian 
<*  knives"  had  no  handles,  and  S.  thinks 
that  the  adaptation  of  these  rude  imple- 
ments made  it  possible  to  develop  the 
rich  musculature  of  the  hand  and  the 
forearm,  so  as  to  permit  the  technical  and 
artistic  achievements  of  paleolithic  man 
of  the  glyptic  period  and  of  certain 
modern  primitive  peoples. 

Schultz  (Z>r)  Eine  Geheimsprache  auf 
Samoa.       (Globus,     Brnschwg.,    1905, 


I 


722 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


11!' 


li 


I 


■11.  1 

I  ' 
I 

I'  i 


'li    : 


Lxxxviii,  17.)  Note,  with  specimens, 
on  a  secret  language,  called  gagana 
liliu  ("turned  round  speech*')  in  use 
chiefly  among  the  youth  of  Samoa. 

Seidel  ( H. )  Ueber  Religion  und  Sprache 
der  Tobiinsulaner.  (Ibid.,  14-16.) 
Discussion  of  data  concerning  *'  temple," 
priests,  burial  customs,  language  of  the 
two  islands  of  Sonsol  and  Tobi,  —  based 
chiefly  on  Kubary's  Ethnographiscke 
BeitrSge  zur  Kenntnis  der  Karolinen- 
Archipeh  {\jt\6.txi^  1^5)*  A  compara- 
tive vocabulary  of  twenty  words  is  given. 
The  chief  deity  of  Tobi  is  Yarris.  Traces 
of  American- Hawaiian  influences  are 
suggested  by  Kubary. 

Selignuum  (C.  G.)  Note  on  a  skull  pre- 
pared for  purposes  of  sorcery,  from  the 
Mekeo  district,  British  New  Guinea. 
(Man,  Lond.,  1905,  v,  49,  i  pi.)  De- 
scribes briefly  young  adult  skull  with  cane 
frame- work  and  lashings,  to  which  are 
fastened  two  boar's  tusks,  fringe  of  hu- 
man hair,  tufts  of  feathers,  bunches  of 
herbs,  quartz  pebbles,  and  other  charms, 
etc.  The  purpose  of  the  skull  is  said  to 
be  to  procure  the  death  of  an  enemy  (pre- 
vious to  its  use  the  skull  must  have  lain 
a  long  time  in  the  jungle,  to  judge  from 
its  condition). 

Further  note  on  the  progress  of  the 

Cook-Daniels  expedition  to  New  Guinea. 
(Ibid.,  52-53.)  Notes  that  the  natives 
of  the  Trobiands  and  their  <* outliers" 
(the  little  visited  Marshall-Bennett- 
group)  aretotemic,  with  well-defined  sys- 
tem of  chiefship.  The  Marshall -Bennett 
islanders  are  probably  identical  with  the 
natives  of  Murua.  The  stone-adz  quarry 
at  Suloga  was  visited.  At  Waga  waga 
extremely  ceremonial  cannibalism  exists. 

Thomas  ( N.  \V. )  Baiame  and  the  bell- 
bird.  (Ibid.,  49-52.)  Discusses  data 
from  Henderson,  Macarthur,  Gunther, 
etc.,  to  show  that  Tylor's  theory  of  the 
missionary  origin  of  Baiame  between 
1830  and  1840  is  **  entirely  untenable." 
It  is  a  question  "  whether  Baiame  is  a 
sublimated  bell-bird,  or  the  bell-bird  a 
decayed  Baiame."  Among  the  Ura- 
bunna  the  Wilyaru  ceremony  commemo- 
rates the  victory  of  the  bell-bird  (  Oreoica 
cristata )  over  the  eagle-hawk. 

Wotherspoon  (A.  S. )  A  curious  belief. 
(J.  Amer.  Folk -Lore,  Boston,  1905, 
XVIII,  157.)  Brief  account  of  the  Fili- 
pino belief  in  the  ''Assvan"  and  the 
*' Tic-Tic,"  his  servant,  cannibal  crea- 
tures who  live  in  the  roots  of  the  big 
mango- trees. 


AMERICA 

Amateca  (The)  tribe  in  Mexka 
(Amer.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1905,  xx^'ii, 
38-39. )  Notes  on  the  legends  coocem- 
ing  the  Amatecas,  whose  descendants 
still  live  in  Amatlan  de  los  Reyes  in  the 
State  of  Vera  Cruz. 

Barry  (l\)  Traditional  ballads  in  New 
England.  I.  (J.  Amer.  Folk- Lore,  Bos- 
ton, 1905,  XVIII,  123-138.)  Gives  vari- 
ous versions  (text  and  music)  from  New 
England  of:  The  golden  vanity.  Lard 
Thomas  and  finir  Annett,  The  two  sisters, 
Lady  Isabel  and  the  Elf-knigbt,  the 
George  Aloe  and  the  Sweepstake,  Henry 
Martin,  the  mermaid.  Captain  Ward 
and  the  Rainbow.  Of  the  versions  col- 
lected by  B.,  "the  best  of  them,  those 
whose  antiquity  is  most  clearly  attested, 
come  from  Vermont ;  the  greater  nomber 
are  from  Massachusetts."  In  two  years 
the  author  has  met  with  **66  versions  ol 
14  of  the  ballads  represented  in  Profes- 
sor Child's  volumes." 

Bierbower  (Mrs  S.)  Among  the  cliff 
and  cavate  dwellings  of  New  Mexica 
(Rec.  of  Past,  Wash.,  1905,  iv,  227- 
233,  6  fgs. )  Extracts  from  diary,  Jane 
16-29,  1900,  of  a  general  character,  re- 
lating to  Suita  Cruz,  Santa  Clara,  and 
Pulvadera  cafion. 

Blakiaton  (A.  H.)  Prehistoric  ruins  of 
northern  Mexico.  (Amer.  Antiq.,  Chi- 
cago, 1905,  XXVII,  65-69. )  Brief  ac- 
count of  the  adobe  ruins  of  Casas 
Grandes,  on  the  western  bank  of  the 
Piedras  Verdes  river  in  Chihuahua,  vis- 
ited by  Bartlett  in  1854.  Pottery,  mt- 
tates,  etc.,  besides  many  skeletons  have 
been  found.  These  ruins  are  attributed 
to  the  Aztecs. 

Boyle  (D.)     Canadian    Indians    in   1904. 
(Man,  Lond.,  1905,  v,  55-58.)     Gives 
statistics  from  Report  of  Department  of 
Indian  Affairs  for   1904, — in  1903  In- 
dians numbered  108,233,  in   1904,  107,- 
978,  and  the  Supt.  of  Indian  Affairs  calls 
in  question  the  belief  that   they  are  **a 
dying    race."      (B.   thinks    that,     vrhilc 
they  may  be  holding  their  own,  **  misce- 
genation  as   well   as   disease    is  slowly 
doing  its  work.")     In  Ontario,  Quebec, 
and  Nova  Scotia  a  slight  increase  in  pop- 
ulation is  noted  ;  the  highest  death-rate 
is  in  British  Columbia.     The  farming  of 
the  Six  Nations  and  Mississaugas,  in  some 
cases,  shows  results  as  good  as  those  of 
the  whites.     The  Indian  still  prefer  liv- 
ing in  communities  of  their  own. 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


Notes  on  some  specimens.     (Ann, 

Arcb.  Rep.  1904,  Toronto,  1905,  17-39, 

52  fgs.)  Describes  stooe  pestle  01  ham- 
mer from  Ridenu  Talley,  rubhing-sloncs 
fnim  Brantford  and  Blenheim  townships, 
unfinished  "  woman's  knife  "  from  Scar- 
boro  township,  stone  "  file  "  from  Wenl- 
worlb  CO.,  Iwar  and  btaver-looth  tools 
from  Balsam  lake,  stone  aies  from  Ari- 
zona and  Lincoln  co.  (Untario],  chisel: 
or  club  spikes,  stone  gouges  from  various 
parts  of  Ontaiio,  stone  and  clay  pipes 
(among  them  "  the  largest,  and  in  some 
respects  the  most  remarltahle  effigy  stone 
pipe,  or  pipe- bowl  ever  found  in  Ontario  ", 
—  a  surface  lind  from  the  township  of 
Tiny),  bone  "feather  (or  quill)  holders" 
and  buttoDS  (rather  than  "  ithistles"), 
a  bone  arrow  from  North  Orillia,  bone 
combs  (with  a  note  from  W.  F.  Petrie 
on  Egyptian  analogues,  etc.).  Of  the 
six  Canadian  combs  illustrated  only  one 
shows  anything  suggestive  of  Ble-marlcs. 
A  metal -saw-made  comb  is  figured. 

Notes,    etc,      ( Ibid. ,    43-7 1 ,    76, 

86-89,  101-103,  13  fgs.)  E>escribes 
stone  and  lortoise-shell  pendants,  ^ell 
objects  (gorgets,  etc.),  wampum  strings, 
bird-amulel  (all  such  objects  are  sur- 
face finds  or  mined  up  by  the  plough,  in 
Ontario),  copper  tools,  European  in  ap- 
pearance, pottery  (tinds  of  native  made 
pottery  generally  indicate  a  period  an- 
terior to  white  contact,  —  the  substitution 
of  the  brass-kettle  was  rapid),  picture- 
writing  (Blackfoot  deerskin  record, — 
interpretationnot  yet  known),  porcupine- 
qnill  work  (a  copy,  by  an  Objibwa,  of 
rock  painting  on  LAke  Couchiching, 


vation)  1  Winona  stone  (from  Winona, 
Ont.;  bears  date  1776  and  carved  head, 
—  white  not  Indian  in  origin);  Mexican 
marble  mask  from  San  Juan  Teotihuacon  ; 
Oneida  mounds  (existence  of  several 
large  mounds  reported,  no  investigation 
as  yet}i  the  "bouse  of  the  devil"  (re- 
ports search  for  the  Manitoa  wigviam, 
"devil's  house,"  as  the  Mississaugas 
called  it  in  1793,  near  the  nest  end  of 
Lake  Ontario);  an  old  dam  on  the 
Grand  River  (not  Indian);  village  sites 
and  occupations ;  anthropology  at  the 
World's  Fair,  St.  Louis;  an  example  of 
primitive  persistence  (neolithic  fashion 
of  hammer-bead  attachment);  the  com- 
ing of  the  Ojibwas  (gives  tradition  of 
Oji^wa.Mohawk  contact);  Lake  St 
George   (brief  account  of  investigation 

AH.    AlfTH.,  H.  S.,  7—48 


723 

of  embankment  on  this  lakelet,  north 
near  Lake  Couchiching,  —  no  opinion 
arrived  at  as  to  nature  and  origin);  Cabo- 
kia  mound  (notes  of  recent  visit);  a 
museum  or  a  musie  ? 

Bnthliell  (D.  I.).  PartiBl  excavation  of 
the  N.  D.  McKvers  mound.  (Rec.  of 
Past,  Wash.,  1905,  iv,  aoi-305,  2  fgs.) 
Describes  excavation  in  May,  1905. 
After  depth  of  36  feet  a  burial  crib  or 
cist  of  war  was  met  and  in  the  enclosure 
were  a  skeleton,  some  skulls  and  other 
human  remains,  two  fine  bone  awls,  a 
large  number  of  pearl  and  shell  beads, 
and  1,195  novaculite  blades, 

ChamterUln  (A.  F.)  Mytholi^  of 
Indian  slocks  north  of  Mexico.  (J. 
Amer.  Folk-Lore,  Boston,  190J,  xviii, 
1 1 1-I32. )  Enumeiates,  with  brief  notes, 
the  chief  mythological  and  folklore 
literature  of  the  Kulanapan,  Mariposan, 
Moquelumnan,  Palaihnihan,  Piman, 
Quoralean,  Shahaplian,  Uchean,  Weit- 
spekan,  Wishoskan,  Yakonan,  Yanan. 
Yuman,  Caddoan.  Chinookan,  Copchao, 
Eskimoan,  Kiowan,  Kilunahan,  Kolusch- 
an,  Lutuamian,  Pujunan,  SkilUgetan 
(Haidan),  Tumshian  (Chimmesyan), 
Wakashan  (Kwakiutt-Nootka)  stocks. 

DlMeldoilI  (Hr)  Veber  Jadeit  — und 
anderen  Schmuck  der  MayavSlker.  (Z. 
f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvit,  40S- 
411,  iz  figs.)  Describes  briefly  jadeite 
plate  and  objects  from  Chami,  Ulpani, 
Canastc,  and  Arenal  in  Alta  Vera  Pai  and 
bom  Copan ;  also  similar  objects  of 
shell  from  Arenal  and  Zacapi.  Accord- 
ing to  the  chemical  examination  of  Prof. 
Max  Baoet  two  of  the  pieces  of  jadeite 
contain  some  zircon,  another  some  mica 
—  further  proofs  of  the  non-Asiatic 
origin  of  American  jade.  The  granula- 
tion of  the  latter  is  coarser. 

D'OUW  (J.  G.)  Indian  graves  in  Mon- 
roe Co.,  New  York.      (Ann,  Arch.  Rep. 

1904,  Toronto,  1905,  103-104.)  Notes 
on  a  number  of  graves  (Seneca  village 
of  Totiacton,  3%  miles  south  of  the 
older  village)  on  Spring  creek,  opened 
by  the  author  in  1S98,  and  their  contents 
(bears'  teeth,  pipes,  bullets,  lead  bar, 
skeletons,  seeds  of  a  spedes  of  Rubus, 
etc. — the  man  in  question  had  probably 
died  from  an  over-dose  of  this  fruit). 

Fkliche  Vorstellnngen  Qber  nordameri- 
kanische  Indianer.    (Globus,  Bmschwg, 

1905,  LXXXvlli,  Ilt-iil.)  Rtsumts 
Henshaw's  article  in  Amtrican  Anikro. 

potogist,  1905,  N.  s.,  vii,  104-113. 


;24 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N-  s.,  7.  i« 


FSntcBunn  (E. )  Die  MillioiKiiubleo 
im  Dresdenus.  (Ibid.,  ti6-lz8.)  l>ii- 
cuuei  Ihe  Ibree  groups  of  numerals  foi 
between  one  and  two  millions  in  Ihe 
Codei  I>tesdenu9.  The  first  group 
covers  a  number  of  77,320  d«ys,  the 
second  84,610,  Ihe  third,  56,334.  All 
the  l>  numbers  of  the  second  group  lie 
in  the  tenth  cycle,  the  first  group  in  the 
ninth,  the  third  in  the  eleventh.  The 
petition  of  the  gaps  before  and  after  the 
second  group  indicate  thai  here,  as  in 
most  Mayan  inscriptions,  the  tenth  cycle 
is  Ihe  present  time. 

Zwei    Hieroglyphenreihen    in    der 

Dresdener  Mayahandschrift.  {Z.  i. 
Elbn.,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvit.  265-174. 
3o  fgs.)  Discusses  the  hieroglyphic 
series  on  pages  51-5S  and  71-93  of  Ibe 
Codei  Dresdensis,  and  their  resem- 
The  firs 


groups 


of  two.  the  second  of  a 


of  Ihe  three  hieroglyphs. 

GcddM  (J.)  Canadian  French.  1900-  1 
1901.  (Kom.  Jahresber.,  l!:rlangen,l904, 
VI,  40S-429.)  Nos.  151-539  of  bib- 
liography of  literature  in  and  relating  to 
Canadian  French,  embracing  the  years 
1900-1901,  under  Ibe  heads  of  biograpb. 
ical,  education,  French  production,  his- 
torical, legal,  literary,  language,  miscel. 
laneous,  poetry,  political,  religious,  sci- 
ence, sociology.  English  nriiings,  deal- 
ing with  French  Canada,  traveis,  etc 
This  continues  Dr  G.'s  valuable  anno, 
tated  bibliography  for  the  decade  1890- 
1900. 

Gilbert  (J.  J. )  Some  notes  on  the  Foi  Is- 
land passes,  (Nat.  Geogr.  Mag.,  Wash., 
1905,  XVI,  427-429. )  Author  says  pop. 
ulalion  of  Aleutian  islands  "is  very 
meager,  and  is  decreasing  every  year,"  — 
3,000  are  said  to  have  died  of  measles  in 
1900,  and  tuberculosis  is  common.  Many 
villages  are  "  abandoned  trading  posts 
established  by  the  Russians  previous  to 
1S67,"  Kemains  of  old  villages  indi. 
cnte   a   considerable   population   in  the 

HAininand  (J  H.)  The  Ojibwas  of  Lakes 
Huron  and  Simcoe.  (Ann.  Arch.  Rep. 
1904.  Toronto,  I905,  71-73-}  B"ff 
historical  and  elhni^raphic  notes.  The 
Ojibwas  "  at  pre.stnt  own  and  occupy  the 


Df  Ran 


sisling  of  1.600  acres.  Snalieand  Machego 
islands  in  Lake  Simcoe,  and  the  smaller 
islands  in  Ijikc  Couchicbing,  logelhcr 
with  the  Christian  islands  in  Ihe  Georgian 
Bay."     Tbvir  cliief  bane  is  the  whi^ey 


supplied  by  the  wfailea.  Few,  apparently, 
■re  of  pore  blood.  TTiey  are  all  kwn 
canoemcD  and  hunters,  and  "at  their 
own  work  of  canoeing  or  on  the  poctagt, 
they  easily  ouldo  the  most  haidy  white." 

Cahiague.     (Ibid.,  74-76. )    Aigucs 

that  the  site  of  the  Hunm  village  A 
Cahiague  was  at  Mt  Slaven,  near  the 
town  of  Orillia,  and  not,  as  Mr  Hunio 
maintains,  at  Buchanan's.  Ease  of  ao- 
munication,  proiimity  of  food  so[^y, 
permanent  water  supply,  sheltered  uid 
easily  defended  position,  ease  of  cacipe 
by  land   and    water,    etc.,   favor  Ihe  Ml 

North    and    South    Orillia.      {Ibid.. 

77-86,   g  fgs. )      Brief  notes   on   sites  <i 
Huron  and    Algonkin    villages    prior  10 
final  raid  of  Iroquois  in  1649.     'iaax  6 
new  siles  in  South  and  5  in  North  OhlUi 
are  indicated.     Certain  articles  attributed 
in  a  former  Report  to  ChieFs  Island  in 
Lake    SinKZoe,    are     really    from     Hocse 
Island,     Ihe     fonner      bang      *'sacrBl 
ground  "  to  the  Indians. 
HcMma  (H.  E. )  an./ BroomaU  |H.  L.) 
Pbolograpbs  of  some  of    the    [Spanidi] 
inscriplions  on    El  Morro,  New  Meiico, 
with  translations  and  notes     (Pixic.  Dela- 
ware Co.    Inst.   Sci.,    Media,  Pa.,  1905, 
I,    »3-*4.    "O   pl. )      Reproduces  photo- 
graphs taken  in   August,    1904.     Adds 
much  to  Ihe  IraDsliteradons  and  liansla- 
lions  of  previoDS  investigators  and  wrilen 
{Simpson  in  I&4g.    Lummis,    Bandeliet, 
Coues.    elc.  ].       Among    the    personages 
referred  lo  in  the   inscriptions  are  Gen. 
Hurtado  ( 1736).  Father  Letrado  ( 1632), 
Gov.  de  Silva  Niclo  (1629),  Gov.  Mar- 
tinei  (I7'6),  the   Bishop   of    Durango 
(1737)- 
KcK:b-<irOiiI)«rg  (T.)      Abschluss   meioer 
Reisen   in   den    Flus^ebieten   des    Rio 
Negro  undVapuri.    (Globus,  Bmschwg., 
1905.   LXXXVllI,    86-91,    7   fgs.)      Coo- 
tains    notes    on    the    Tsflloa,      Pallnoa, 
I        Makuna,  Yahuna,  Yabah&na,  Buhagaua, 
'        Imibita.   Uit6to,  Yuri,  and  other   Indian 
I        tribes    and     peoples.       The     commuDol 
house  {malika   in   the  Ligoa  geral)    of 
;        the  TsOloa  and  Pallnoa  is  noteworthy ; 
'        also  the  masks  used  by  the   Opaina   in 
I       their  dances.     Dr  K.-G.  obtained  much 
I        linguistic    material    from     the    so-called 
'        UilAlo.      The    Yuri  seem   allophyllic   in 
language.     The   lai^c  signal   drums  of 
of  Ihe  Uaup*s-Indians  are  found  also  on 
\        Ibe  Upper  S'apuri  and  its  tributaries  and 
j       among  Ihe  L'it6to  of  the  Upper  lea. 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


725 


YOn  Koenigswald  (G. )  Die  indianischen 
Muschelberge  in  SUdbrasilien.  (Ibid., 
1905,  Lxxxvii,  34i-347»  3^  fgs.)  De- 
scribes location,  nature,  contents,  etc., 
of  the  sambaquiSf  sernamby^  ostreiraSy 
berbigueiraSf  casqueirosy  as  the  shell- 
heaps  of  the  Brazilian  coast  are  variously 
temed.  The  Jesuits  in  the  i6th,  17th, 
and  part  of  the  1 8th  centuries  procured 
lime  from  these  shells,  which  were  em- 
ployed for  that  purpose  not  only  along 
the  coast,  but  also  in  the  highland  towns. 
Some  of  the  sambaguis  are  very  high 
(Canan^a,  20  m. ),  others  of  colossal  ex- 
tent (e.  g.  Villa  Nova  on  Comprida 
bland).  Some  of  them  were  inhabited 
at  the  time  of  the  coming  of  Europeans 
and  after.  Some,  however,  are  prehis- 
toric, and  all  are  apparently  of  human 
origin.  In  some  of  the  sambaquis  of 
Paran4  and  Sta.  Catharina,  bones  of 
horses,  pieces  of  iron,  crosses  worn  by 
missionaries,  etc.,  have  been  found. 
The  lower  strata  yield  rude  stone  axes, 
primitive  stone  implements,  arrowheads 
(rare),  etc.  ;  the  upper  finely  worked 
and  polished  stone  implements,  pottery, 
etc.  These  last  may  represent  a  culture 
that  utilized  these  shell  heaps  after  the 
first  possessors  had  been  driven  away. 
Bolas  and  lip  ornaments  have  been 
found.  In  the  interior  occur  little  sam- 
baquis different  from  the  large  ones  on 
the  coast. 

Kroeber  (A.  L. )  Wishosk  myths.  (J. 
Amer.  Folk-Lore,  Boston,  1905,  xviii, 
85-107.)  Gives  English  texts  of  25 
myths  from  the  Wishosk  Indians  of  the 
coast  of  Humboldt  co.,  in  northwestern 
California  (creation  origin,  animal,  — 
— salmon,  spider,  otter,  frog,  mole,  coy- 
ote, dog,  blue-jsy,  sea-lion,  grizzly  bear, 
crow,  eagle,  porpoise,  raven,  pelican, 
skunk,  elk).  The  mythology  of  the 
Wishosk  **  occupies  a  place  between  the 
mythologies  of  central  and  those  of 
northwestern  California,  sharing  with 
one  a  considerable  development  of  crea- 
tion myth  and  animal  tales,  and  with  the 
other  especially  certain  episodes  of  a  spe- 
cific culture-hero  cycle."  In  general 
character  and  underlying  conceptions  it 
is  more  akin  to  that  of  central  California 
than  that  of  the  distinctly  northwestern 
tribes.  The  r6le  of  Gudatrigawitl 
( *'  Above-old-man  " )  ii  important. 

Large  ( R.  W. )  Mortuary  customs  in 
British  Columbia.  (Ann.  Arch.  Rep. 
1904,  Toronto,  1 905,  loo-ioi.)  Notes 
on  the  burial    customs  of    the  Indians 


about  Bella-bella,  with  whom  at  present 
**  the  dead  are  rolled  in  blankets,  cover- 
lids and  the  like  and  placed  in  boxes  made 
after  the  pattern  of  the  white  man's  cof- 
fin." They  are  mostly  put  in  grave 
houses,  which  are  *' diminutive  buildings 
containing  besides  the  remains  of  the  vari- 
ous members  of  the  family,  the  children's 
toys,  and  dishes,  clocks,  lamps,  articles 
of  furniture,  and  other  belongings  of  the 
departed."  Burnings  of  certain  prop- 
erty take  place  at  stated  intervals  near  the 
grave-houses.  Some  of  the  dried  bodies 
are  utilized  in  the  '*  man-eating  dance." 

Lehmann  (W.)  Ueber  Taraskische  Bil- 
derschriften.  (Globus,  Bmschwg.,  1905, 
LXXXVII,  410-413,  3  fgs.)  Enumerates 
and  describes  13  documents  containing 
picture-writings  of  the  Tarascan  Indians 
of  Mexico,  an  ancient  people  of  somewhat 
advanced  culture.  Ainong  these  are  the 
Relacion  de  Michoacan^  the  chronicle  of 
Father  Beaumont,  several  genealogies, 
the  Lienzo  de  Cucut&cato  and  several 
other  similar  documents.  Others  may  be 
yet  discovered. 

Lehmann-Nitsche  ( R. )  Die  dunkeln  Ge- 
burtsflecke  in  Argentinien  und  Brasilien. 
(Ibid.,  1905,  Lxxxviii,  112.)  Addi- 
tional data  to  those  previously  recorded 
(see  Amer.  Anthrop.y  1904,  N.  s.,vi,  739) 
concerning  the  occurrence  of  "Mongo- 
lian spots"  in  Brazil  (very  common, 
especially  in  Rio  Grande  do  Sul )  and  the 
Argentine  ( Province  of  Santiago  del  Es- 
tero,  —  a  curious  folk-custom  exists  of 
cutting  out  on  the  bark  of  a  tree  the  foot- 
print of  a  child  and  letting  it  be  grown 
over;  the  "spot"  resembles  in  some 
way  a  foot- print). 

Nachtrag  zur  Erkl&rung  der  Breg- 

manarben  an  alten  Sch&deln  von  Tene- 
rife.  (Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  1905,  xxxvii, 
436-437. )  Cites  passage  from  an  Anda- 
lusian  Franciscan,  Galindo  (whose  MS. 
of  1652  was  published  in  English  by 
Glass  in  1764),  concerning  the  scarifica- 
tion of  the  skull  with  flints  for  medical 
purposes  by  the  natives  of  the  Canary 
islands. 

Lewis  (J.  H. )  The  effects  of  tropical 
climates  upon  the  teeth  of  Americans. 
(G.  Wash.  Univ.  Bull.,  Wash.,  1904,  ill. 
No.  3,  76-81.)  Notes  effect  of  change 
of  food,  dengue,  "sprue,"  etc. — sol- 
diers, naval  men,  and  civilians  ( men  and 
women)  are  all  affected  in  the  Philip- 
pines, etc. 

Neuhaus  ( J. )  Zur  ethnographischen  und 
archftologischen  Untersuchung  der  Mcs> 


726 


kilokflsie.  (Globus,  Bnudiwg.,  1905, 
Lxxxvni,  91-93.  Diicuues  pluu  to? 
briefly.  No  d>u. 
HonUukUtld  ( E. )  Ueber  Quichiu  iprech- 
eode  Indianer  id  deo  OMabhlogcD  der 
Anden  im  Gmugebeit  iwiscben  Pern  und 
Bolivia.  (Ibid.,  101-108,  9  fgi.)  Tretti 
of  Ibe  Qui chtu- speaking  tribes  of  the 
eulern  slopes  of  Ihe  Andes  on  the  border 
between  Peni  and  Bolivia,  their  agticul- 
tural  and  cattle-breeding  pursuits,  etc 
Also  relalioni  with  the  whites.  The 
Qnichua  has  always  been  and  is  now  a 
conquering  speech, — in  Apoio  and  the 
region  alxiul  it  has  suppressed  (he  La- 
pachu  :  the  Ijh»  likewise  and  Ibe  Ta- 
ouia  is  yielding.  The  children,  where 
one  parent  is  Quichuan  spemk  Quicfaua. 
In  tile  higher  mounUin  talleyi  (Qneara, 
Saqui,  Sina,  Ollachea,  etc.)  Ibe  Indians 
now  ipeak  Quicbua.  Interesling  ere  the 
representations  of  the  sun  and  moon  in 
feathers  and  paper,  carried  id  dances, 
festivals  of  the  church,  elc.  The  Indians 
arc  morally  tietler  than  the  nhitea. 

PotU  (J. )  The  Eskimo  a  hundred  and 
fifty  yeara  ago.  (Ann.  Arch.  Rep. 
1904,  Toronto,  1905,  104-113.)  Te»l 
of  a  lelrer  of  Jno.  Polls,  dated  Richmond 
Fort,  15  Mnrih,  1 754,10  the  commanders- 
in-chief  of  Moose  and  Albany  Forti. 
Describes  characler  and  behavior  of  the 
"  Eusqueroays",  dealings  with  whiles, 
trading,  elc. 

Secordi  of  Iroquois  songs.  (Amer. 
Antiq.,  Chicago,  1905,  XXVll,  103-105.) 
Li5[5  12  songs  sung  to  phonograph  by 
Jes.se  I, yon,  an  Onondaga,  and  now  pro- 
curable in  o()en  market  at  regular  prices. 

Sice  (J.  A.)  The  totem  mounds  of  Wis- 
consin. (Ibid.,  56,)  Brief  general 
note.      No  djia. 

Skdlelr  (C.  A.)  0"./  ThoBUj  (N.  W.) 

-Animal  superstitions  among  the  Arau- 
caniuns.  (Man,  Lond,,  I905,  V,  I04- 
105.  J  Enumerates  39  items  (obtained 
in  response  to  i/urslhntiairt],  about 
eagle,  liueao,  snakes  (valued  by  medi- 
cine women),  liiurd,  rooster,  iorifiong, 
owt,  caltle,  iiunb.  Ton,  horse,  rams,  etc. 
Seler  (  E. )  Drei  Gegenstande  aus  Mexiko. 
(Z.  f.  Ethn.,  Berlin,  I905,  xxxvn.  441- 
444,  3  fgs. )  Describes  a  clay  flute 
(omamenleil  with  a  human  head  in  re- 
lief) from  Chaico  ;  a  clay  vessel  (  with  a 
hend  of  the  god  Mncuilxochiial  on  the 
lovv-et  fi..nl)  protubly  from  the  Callc  de 
Escalerilla*  ;  and  n  crescent  of  copper 
plate  from  Tangancicusro  in  the  State 
of  Michoacan. 


AMESICAN  ANTHROJ'OI.OCtST 


[K. 


,?,i* 


'StafT(F.)  AnthR>i>o]os7atdKS[.lj> 
I  ExpoiitMa.  (Amer.  Antiq.,  dibp 
I  1905,  XXVII.  40-42.)  BridDgUa 
'  ethnological,  TnHian  acbool,  aidxdifi 
!       ol  exhibits. 

The    Complanler     medal.     (Ihi. 

4»-4J.)  Describes  medal  for  Imips 
rcsearcti,  *■  foanded  from  sales  i  1 
aeries    of    linc-ctched   reptodoctitiii  1^ 

En-and-inlc  drawings  by  a  Senea  lalis 
J,  aamed  Jesse  Complanler-"  Tit 
first  award  (June  8,  1904)  was  to  Go, 
J.  S.  Clark  of  Auburn,  N.  Y. 
TOD  den  Steinen  (  K. )  Ein  peiamdD 
Zweigoralcel.  (Z,  f.  Ethn.,  Be*. 
199s.   xxxvu,   439-440,    I    %.)    [«■ 

I  scribes  a  knotted  twig  oracle  1  fnn  ^ 
euphoria )  found  near  HuariuBi^ 
in  the  Puccba  nUley,  province  of  Htia 

'  The  Indians  are  said  to  lest  the  raati 
their  wives,  when  on  long  joanK;s.l< 
the  way  in  which  the  exceedingly  fc& 
ble  twiga  of  the  euphorbia  diy. 
Stewelt  (J.)  Rupert's  Lanl  lodiuaii 
the  olden  time.  (Ann.  Arch.  ts. 
19^  Ton>nlo,  1905,  S9-100.I  D^ 
scribes  ret  iRion,  supcrstitioos.  and  mill 
habits  of  the  uncivilized  '•Bungan" 
(Cree-Ojibwa)  around  the  north  riwo 
of  Lake  Winnipeg,  as  they  were  itoO 
40  years  ago  (the  paper  was  wtitw 
some  10-30  years  ago,  the  author  liam( 
been  in  the  service  of  the  Hodwi'l 
Bay  Co.).  Geecbe  and  Malche  Mui- 
tou,  Wesse-ke-jack  (at  some  iengtl. 
with  the  legends  of  the  release  of  ibe 
sun,  Ibe  making  of  num,  the  conTenM 
of  the  animals,  the  deluge,  etc  1,  il* 
nature  and  riles  of  the  ■' Brc/utna,  t* 
feast  of  long  life"  (in  which  the  lanlf 
snake  figures  promincDlly )  are  coo 
sidered.  The  origin  legend  of  the  l»« 
is  given  and  the  ceremonies  indicartJ 
with  some  detail.  This  paper  is  »o  in- 
teresting contribution  lo  the  literature  of 
AlgoiKjuian  mythology. 
SwutDD  (J.  R.)  Explanation  of  the 
Seattle  tolem  pole.  (J.  Amer.  Folk- 
I-ore,  Boston,  1905,  xviii,  loS-ilo. : 
pi.)  Gives,  after  Mr  George  Hoot  ind 
Mra  Roben  Hunt  (the  former  owneri, 
mythological  eiplanalions  of  Ihe  can 
ings  on  Ihe  lotem-pole,  which  once  be- 
longed to  the  Ganax^dl,  one  of  'he 
principal  Tlingit  families  of  the  Rs"" 
clan,  and  is  now  set  up  in  the  mun 
square  of  Seattle,  Wash.  Compansoo  is 
made  with  a  briefer  explanation  by  Mi 
Kininnook,  a  Tlingit  Indian. 


chamberlain] 


PERIODICAL  LITERATURE 


727 


Swindlehnrat  ( F. )  Folk-lore  of  the  Cree 
Indians.  (Ibid.,  139-143.)  Gives  Eng- 
lish texts  of  7  brief  legends  (creation, 
birth  of  Lake  Mistassini,  the  painted 
canoe,  a  big  perch,  the  story  of  Katonao, 
the  fisherman,  the  biter  bit)  from  the 
Creesof  the  James  Bay-Mistassini  region. 
To  tell  tales  during  winter  or  summer  is 
unlucky — narration  in  the  fall  (the 
proper  season)  brings  good  fortune.  The 
custom  of  story- telling  in  autumn  is  kept 
up  by  only  a  few  of  the  older  men,  the 
young  Indians  not  taking  the  trouble  to 
learn  them.  The  author  has  had  *  *  seven 
years'  intimate  association  with  Cree 
Indians." 

Thompfon  (A.  H.)  Ruins  of  the  Mesa 
Verde.  (Amer.  Antiq.,  Chicago,  1905, 
XXVII,  6-8.)  Brief  account  of  recent 
visit  to  the  ruins  known  as  *<  Spruce-tree 
House,"  "Balcony  House,**  "Cliflf 
Palace.*'     No  new  data. 

Wake  CC.  S.)  Mythology  of  the  Plains 
Indians.  (Ibid.,  9-16.)  Discusses  *< ani- 
mism * ' ,  —  according  to  W. ,  <  <  humanism, 
rather  than  animism,  would  be  the  proper 
term  to  apply  to  the  earliest  stage  of 
man's  religious  development*'  (the 
native  mind  has  an  innate  tendency  to 
humanize  nature),  and  mythology  in  a 
restricted  sense.  Nature-myths  are  im- 
aginations often,  not  true  explanations ; 
subjective,  not  objective.     Though  most 


of  the  stories  are  native,  some  of  them  are 
certainly  quite  modem,  and  others  are 
borrowed. 

— ^  Mythology  of  the  Plains  Indians.  II, 
Nature-deities.  (Ibid.,  73-80.)  Treats 
of  the  Caddo  Nesaru,  Pawnee  Tirawa, 
Wichita  Kinnecasus,  the  star-gods,  etc. 
Of  all  the  Plains  tribes  the  Caddoan  stock 
shows  *  *  the  nearest  approach  to  a  supreme 
creative  deity."  The  star-gods  are  very 
important.  Lore  of  the  number  4  is  also 
abundant. 

Wintomberg  ( W.  J. )  Relics  of  the  Atti- 
wandarons.  (Rec.  of  Past,  Wash., 
1905,  IV,  266-275,  50  fgs. )  Describes 
briefly  fragments  of  pottery,  tobacco- 
pipes  (mostly  clay,  seldom  stone),  some- 
times incised,  bone  awls,  stone  axes, 
chisels,  etc.,  gorgets,  copper  articles 
(rare),  bone  beads,  ornaments  and  shells 
from  village-sites  of  the  Attiwandarons 
or  Neutrals  (Iroquoian  stock),  the  earliest 
historical  inhabitants  of  western  Ontario. 

Are  the  perforated  bone  needles  pre- 
historic? (Ann.  Arch.  Rep.,  1904,  To- 
ronto, 1905,  39-42,  2  fgs.)  Author 
doubts  whether  the  eyed  bone  needles 
found  in  Ontario  and  New  York  state 
are  of  Indian  (Iroquoian)  invention. 
In  a  brief  note  Dr  Boyle  sees  no  reason 
for  attributing  a  European  origin  to  these 
implements,  whatever  their  use  may  have 
been. 


ANTHROPOLOGIC    MISCELLANEA 

American  Anthropological  Association.  —  The  annual  meedng  of 
the  American  Anthropological  Association  will  be  held  at  Ithaca,  N.  Y., 
December  26-29,  ^P^S-  (The  Archaeological  Institute  of  America,  the 
American  Folk-Lore  Society,  and  the  American  Philological  Assodadon 
will  meet  at  the  same  time  and  place. ) 

Reduced  rates  of  a  fare  and  one  third,  on  the  certificate  plan,  hare 
been  secured  from  the  Trunk  Line  Association,  the  New  England  Pas- 
senger Association,  the  Central  Passenger  Association,  and  the  Eastern 
Canadian  Passenger  Association.  In  applpng  for  certificates  from  tidut 
agents,  mention  the  Archaoiogtcal  Institute  of  Afnerica  instead  of  the 
American  Anthropological  Association. 

In  consulting  time  tables,  it  should  be  remembered  that  East  Ithaa 

I  is  the  Ithaca  station  of  the  Elmira  and  Cortland  branch  of  the  Lehigh 

I  Valley  Railroad.     Cars  meet  all  trains  at  this  station  and  all  cars  pass  the 

I  hotels. 

:  The  University  authorities  invite  all  members  of  the  Association  to 

luncheon  in  Sage  College,  as  their  guests,  at  one  o'clock  on  Wednesday, 
Thursday,  and  Friday,  December  27,  28,  and  29.  In  view  of  this  ar- 
rangement, the  Ithaca  Hotel  has  reduced  its  rates  to  f  1.50,  $2.00,  and 
$2.50  per  day;  the  Clinton  House  to  $1.50  and  $2.00  per  day.  These 
are  the  best  hotels  and  are  both  conducted  on  the  American  plan. 

The  various  sessions  of  the  Association  will  be  held  in  Stimson  Hall, 
which  may  be  reached  by  all  cars  passing  the  hotels  mentioned  as  well  as 
by  the  Eddy  street  line,  a  somewhat  shorter  route. 

All  members  and  prospective  members  are  cordially  invited  to  present 
papers.  Those  intending  to  do  so  are  requested  to  send  titles  of  com- 
munications to  Dr  George  Grant  MacCurdy,  237  Church  Street,  New 
Haven,  Conn.,  at  an  early  date. 

In  addition  to  the  list  of  papers  to  be  announced  later,  the  program 
will  include  : 

1.  Meeting  of  the  Council  of  the  American  Anthropological  Asso- 
ciation, Tuesday  evening  at  the  Ithaca  Hotel,  and  Wednesday,  9.30  a.  m., 
in  Stimson  Hall. 

2.  Address  of  welcome  by  President  Schurman  at  8  p.  m.,  Wednes- 
day, the  27  th,  followed  by  a  reception  at  his  residence  on  the  campus. 

728 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  729 

3.  Joint  meeting  of  the  three  societies  at  3  p.  m.,  Thursday,  with 
addresses  by  Hon.  Andrew  D.  White,  first  president  of  Cornell  Univer- 
sity, and  by  two  members  from  each  society. 

4.  Meeting  of  the  Committee  on  the  Preservation  of  the  Ruins  of 
American  Antiquity,  Prof.  Thomas  Day  Seymour,  Chairman,  at  8  p.  m. 
on  Thursday. 

The  Town  and  Gown  Club  of  Ithaca  have  very  kindly  offered  the 
freedom  of  their  Club  House  (504  Stewart  Avenue),  to  all  visiting  mem- 
bers during  the  three  days,  December  27,  28,  and  29,  with  a  special  invi- 
tation to  a  smoker  on  Thursday  evening. 

For  further  information  relative  to  local  arrangements,  address  Prof. 
H.  C.  Elmer,  Chairman  of  the  Local  Committee,  Cornell  University, 
Ithaca,  N.  Y.  For  information  regarding  the  American  Anthropolog- 
ical Association,  communicate  with  Dr  George  Grant  MacCurdy  at  the 
address  above  given. 

International  Congress  of  Americanists.  —  As  previously  announced 
in  these  pages  the  Fifteenth  International  Congress  of  Americanists  will 
meet  at  Quebec,  September  10-16,  1906.  The  Committee  on  Program 
consists  of  Prof.  Franz  Boas  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History 
and  Columbia  University,  New  York,  and  Dr  David  Boyle  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Education,  Toronto.  President  Putnam  of  the  American 
Anthropological  Association  has  appointed  a  committee  to  cooperate 
with  the  committee  of  the  Congress.  This  subconmiittee  is  composed  of 
the  following  members  of  the  Association  :  Dr  George  Grant  MacCurdy, 
chairman,  Yale  University ;  Dr  Roland  B.  Dixon,  Harvard  University ; 
Dr  George  A.  Dorsey,  Field  Columbian  Museum ;  Dr  George  Byron 
Gordon,  University  of  Pennsylvania ;  Mr  F.  W.  Hodge,  Bureau  of 
American  Ethnology ;  Dr  A.  L.  Kroeber,  University  of  California ;  Dr 
W  J  McGee,  St  Louis  Public  Museum;  Prof.  Marshall  H.  Saville, 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History  and  Columbia  University. 

Members  and  prospective  members  of  the  Association  who  intend  to 
present  papers  at  Quebec  are  invited  to  send  titles  of  their  communica- 
tions to  Dr  MacCurdy,  chairman  of  the  subcommittee. 

Congris  International  d'  Anthropologie  et  d'  Arch6ologie  Pr^histo- 
riques.  —  The  formal  announcement  of  the  thirteenth  session  of  the  Con- 
grte  International  d'  Anthropologie  et  d'  Arch^ologie  Pr^historiques  has 
been  made  by  the  committee  of  organization,  of  which  Dr  E.  T.  Hamy, 
director  of  the  Mus^e  d*  Ethnographie,  is  president.  As  previously  an- 
nounced the  next  session  of  the  Congr^s  will  be  held  at  Monaco,  under 


.1 
ll 


it 
I 
i 

r 


730  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

the  patronage  of  Prince  Albert  I,  from  April  16  to  21  inclusive.  It  is 
expected  that  the  meeting  will  be  largely  attended  and  will  prove  of  un- 
usual interest.  Special  attention  will  be  devoted  to  the  archeology  of  the 
Monaco  region  and  will  include  an  excursion  to  the  celebrated  grottoes 
of  Baouss^-Rouss^.  Among  the  f)^tes  that  have  been  planned  are  a  recep- 
tion by  Prince  Albert  to  the  members  of  the  Congrds  at  the  Palais  de 
Monaco,  a  pyrotechnic  display  in  the  harbor,  and  an  entertainment  in 
the  theater  of  the  Casino  de  Monte  Carlo.  All  American  students  of  the 
prehistoric  are  invited  to  become  members  of  the  Congr^s  and  to  con- 
tribute papers,  the  titles  of  which  should  be  sent  at  once  in  order  that 
they  may  be  included  in  the  final  program.  Under  the  rules  papers  not 
thus  listed  cannot  be  read.  The  membership  fee,  which  is  15  fr.  (^3.00), 
should  be  sent  to  the  treasurer,  M.  Henri  Hubert,  74  me  Claude-Barnard, 
Paris.  Communications  respecting  papers  and  requesting  information 
should  be  addressed  to  the  secretary,  Dr  R.  Vemeau,  Laboratoire 
d'  Anthropologie  du  Museum,  61  rue  de  BufTon,  Paris. 

Jay  feathers  in  Cora  Ceremony.  —  The  Cora  Indians  of  Mexico  em- 
ploy for  ceremonial  purposes  a  small  bunch  of  the  fine  long  tail-feathers 
of  the  native  jay.  These  plumes  are  attached  to  a  short  handle,  and 
when  not  in  use  are  carefully  kept  in  a  tube,  more  than  a  yard  in  length, 
made  from  one  of  the  smaller  straight  limbs  of  the  pitaya  tree  and  pro- 
vided with  a  stopper  at  each  end.  In  every  Cora  household  at  least  one 
of  these  bunches  of  feathers,  which  are  called  mu'Ve'g'/t\  may  be  seen. 
In  ceremonies  they  are  often  stuck  into  the  sides  of  a  crown-like  head- 
dress of  reed  worn  by  the  participants. 

A.   Hrdlicka. 

News  of  the  death  of  Mr  Stephen  Salisbury,  at  Worcester,  Mass., 
November  i6th,  has  been  received  with  deep  regret.  The  public  press 
announces  that  Mr  Salisbury's  large  fortune  has  been  bequeathed  chiefly 
to  educational  institutions,  the  American  Antiquarian  Society,  of  which 
Mr  Salisbury  was  president  at  the  time  of  his  death,  being  one  of  the  bene- 
ficiaries. 

The  third  meeting  of  the  California  Branch  of  the  American  Folk- 
Lore  Society,  held  at  San  Francisco,  October  30,  was  devoted  to  topics 
connected  with  popular  beliefs  of  the  Japanese,  and  the  meetings  of  No- 
vember 14  and  December  5  were  devoted  respectively  to  Chinese  and 
Hebrew  folk-lore.  Lectures  and  conferences  on  Polynesian,  Japanese, 
and  American  Indian  folk-lore  are  planned  for  subsequent  meetings. 


ii 


ANTHROPOLOGIC  MISCELLANEA  73  I 

The  death  of  Dr  Ferdinand  von  Richthofen,  on  October  29,  1905, 
has  been  announced.  Dr  Richthofen  was  a  member  of  the  Academy  of 
Sciences,  professor  of  geography  and  director  of  the  Geographical  Insti- 
tute in  the  University  of  Berlin,  and  president  of  the  German  Geological 
Society. 

The  Office  of  Indian  Affairs  at  Washington  has  wisely  seen  the  im- 
portance of  making  a  study  of  Indian  music  and  has  appointed  Mr 
Harold  A.  Loring  to  undertake  that  work.  Mr  Loring  is  now  prose- 
cuting investigations  among  the  Sioux. 

A  NEW  bimonthly  magazine,  with  the  title  Revue  PrMstorique  illus- 
trie  de  T Est  de  la  France:  Bourgogne,  Champagne y  Franche-Comtiy 
Lorraine  y  made  its  appearance  at  Dijon  in  July- August.  It  is  a  well -illus- 
trated octavo  of  32  pages.     The  subscription  price  is  10  francs. 

It  has  BEEN  announced  that  the  celebrated  Hubert  Howe  Bancroft 
library,  so  rich  in  the  history  and  ethnology  of  the  Pacific  states  and 
Mexico,  has  been  acquired  by  the  University  of  California. 

Mr  Wiluam  H.  Holmes,  chief  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Eth- 
nology, has  been  elected  a  member  of  the  American  Antiquarian  Society. 


PROCEEDINGS    OF    THE    CALIFORNIA    MEETING    OF    THI 

AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION, 

AUGUST  a9-SEPTEMBER  a,  1905 

Minutes  of  the  Meetings  of  the  Council,  August  29-31 

MMtingi  tA  Angiwt  ag 

A  meeting  of  the  Council  was  held  in  the  Department  of  Anthropology 
at  the  Affiliated  Colleges  of  the  University  of  California,  San  Francisco, 
Tuesday,  August  29,  at  9:30  a.  m.  Pre^dent  Putnam  in  the  chair; 
other  members  present :  Dr  A.  L.  Kroeber  and  Dr  R.  B.  Dixon,  with 
Dr  Charles  Peabody,  who  was  elected  Secretary  pro  tempore  in  the 
place  of  Dr  George  Grant  MacCurdy,  absent.  The  minutes  of  the 
meeting  of  the  Council  held  April  15,  1905,  in  New  York,  were  read 
and  approved. 

The  President  stated  to  the  Council  that  a  vote  bad  been  taJcen  by  a 
circular  sent  to  all  of  its  members,  and  by  this  it  had  been  decided  to 
substitute  San  Francisco  for  Portland,  Oregon,  as  the  place  of  meeting  for 
the  summer  of  1905. 

New  members  were  elected  as  follows :  Mr  S.  A.  Barrett,  Mrs  T.  B. 
Bishop,  Mr  Herbert  Brown,  Mr  D.  I.  Bushnell,  Jr,  Dr  Mary  G.  Camp- 
bell, Dr  A.  C.  Connor,  Dr  N.  B.  Emerson,  Prof.  J.  Fryer,  Mr  H.  H. 
Harrison,  Mrs  R.  C.  Harrison,  Mrs  R.  F,  Herrick,  Mr  E.  W.  Heusinger, 
Mr  Charles  Hill-Tout,  Dr  W.  Hurst,  Dr  G.  L.  Knapp,  Mrs  M.  L. 
LaMoreaux,  Mr  C.  P.  Mackie,  Dr  C.  Hart  Merriain,  Rev,  A.  G.  Morice, 
O.M.I. ,  Miss  E.  D.  Putnam,  Miss  H.  Rucker,  Mr  C.  E.  Rumsey,  Mr 
H.  N.  Rust,  Dr  A.  E.  Taylor,  Dr  J.  H.  Woods,  Prof.  J.  H.  Wright. 
Twenty -six  in  all. 

Moved  :  That  the  amendments  to  the  constitution  as  recommended 
by  the  Council  at  its  last  meetings  in  Philadelphia  in  December,  1904, 
and  in  New  York  in  April,  1905,  be  presented  at  the  meeting  to  come  of 
the  Association.     Carried. 

Moved  :  That  the  annual  meeting  be  held  at  Ithaca,  New  York,  in 
December,  1905.     Carried. 

Adjourned. 

A  meeting  of  the  Council  was  called  by  the  President  at  3:30  p.  »i., 
Tuesday,  August  29,  1905,  at  the  Affiliated  Colleges. 

733 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION  733 

New  members  were  elected  as  follows :    Mrs  H.  H.  Bancroft,  Mrs  J. 

Fessenden  Clark,  Mrs  F.  H.  Green,  Miss  Catherine  W.  Hittell,  Mrs  E. 

S.  Howard,  Mr  E.  L.  McLeod,  Miss  Elizabeth  Mills. 

Adjourned. 

Meeting  of  Angust  30 

A  meeting  of  the  Council  was  called  by  the  President  at  the  Hotel 
St  Francis,  San  Francisco,  Wednesday,  August  30,  1905,  at  2  p.  m. 

New  members  were  elected  as  follows :    Mrs  J.  H.  Beatty,  Mrs  E.  B. 

Power,  Mrs  H.  L.  Ryan,  Mrs  Dorcas  L.  Spencer. 

Adjourned. 

Meeting  of  Angnst  31 

A  meeting  of  the  Council  was  held  at  the  University  of  California, 
Berkeley,  on  Thursday,  August  31,  1905,  at  3  p.  m. 

New  members  were  elected  as  follows :  Miss  Ada  M.  Field,  Mr  Fred- 
erick Monsen,  Mrs  James  S.  Peck. 

Adjourned. 

Minutes  of  the  Meeting  of  the  Association,  August  29-31 

Sessions  of  Angnst  29 

A  session  of  the  Association  was  held  in  the  Department  of  Anthro- 
pology at  the  Affiliated  Colleges  of  the  University  of  California,  San  Fran- 
cisco, Tuesday,  August  29,  1905,  at  10:30  a.  m.  President  Putnam  in 
the  chair. 

Dr  Charles  Peabody  was  elected  Secretary /r<?  tempore  in  the  absence 
of  Dr  George  Grant  MacCurdy. 

The  President  gave  an  address  of  welcome,  and  explained  the  scope 
of  anthropology  in  general  and  the  work  and  needs  of  the  science  in  par- 
ticular on  the  Pacific  coast.     The  President  said  in  part : 

Members  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association ^ 

Ladies  and  Gentlemen  :  This  is  the  first  time  the  American  Anthropo- 
logical Association  has  met  on  the  Pacific  coast,  and  in  my  official  capacity  in 
connection  with  the  University  of  California  I  welcome  you  here  most  heartily. 
This  Association  is  American  in  the  broadest  sense.  We  have  members  in 
South  America,  in  Mexico,  and  in  the  Dominion  of  Canada,  so  that  we  cover 
the  whole  continent  of  America.  We  also  have  foreign  members.  At  least 
two  of  our  members  from  Canada  are  present  at  this  meeting,  but,  unfortu- 
nately, our  members  in  southern  lands  and  in  Europe  are  represented  only  by 
letters  of  regret.  Next  year  there  will  be  a  large  gathering  of  anthropologists 
from  many  parts  of  the  world  at  the  International  Congress  of  Americanists  to 
be  held  in  Quebec,  and  that  is  the  chief  reason  why  many  of  our  members  are 
absent  today. 


734  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

The  objects  of  our  Association  should  be  considered  at  each  meeting, 
and  in  order  to  impress  them  upon  you  I  will  read  the  second  article  of  our 
constitution,  as  follows : 

**  The  objects  of  the  Association  are  to  promote  the  science  of  Anthro- 
pology ;  to  stimulate  the  efforts  of  American  anthropologists  ;  to  coordinate 
Anthropology  with  other  sciences  ;  to  foster  local  and  other  societies  devoted 
to  Anthropology  ;  to  serve  as  a  bond  of  union  among  American  anthropolo- 
gists and  American  anthropological  organizations  present  and  prospective  ; 
and  to  publish  and  encourage  the  publication  of  matters  pertaining  to 
Anthropology.*' 

As  we  all  know,  anthropology  begins  with  the  effort  to  ascertain  when 
man  first  appeared  upon  the  earth  —  the  geological  history  of  man.  It  then  con- 
siders the  distribution  of  man  over  the  earth  ;  the  thoughts  of  man  as  expressed 
through  the  medium  of  his  hands  ;  the  institutions  which  man  has  established, 
the  social  organizations,  the  various  means  by  which  man  has  gradually 
secured  the  best  interests  of  the  different  peoples.  Our  science  is  the  study 
of  man,  and  all  that  man  has  done  physically  and  mentally.  It  is  thus  a 
broad  study,  and  it  has  its  bearings  upon  many  sciences.  Geology,  astronomy, 
zo5logy,  and  botany  all  come  into  play  in  our  researches,  so  that  an  anthro- 
pologist must  have  at  least  a  general  knowledge  of  these  sciences  or  he  can- 
not be  an  all-round  anthropologist.  Linguistics  is  a  special  branch  of  our 
science  which  requires  special  training  and  special  adaptability,  but  it  also 
requires  a  general  knowledge  of  ethnology.  A  student  of  native  languages 
must  have  some  knowledge  of  the  native  peoples  in  order  to  get  into  close 
contact  with  them  and  thus  obtain  the  most  accurate  results  from  his  investi- 
gations. 

Our  Association  welcomes  to  its  membership  all  who  are  interested  in 
this  great  study.  We  wish  to  have  every  educated  man  and  woman  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Association.  They  should  be  with  us.  They  should  be  engaged 
in  aiding  this  work,  because  the  study  of  the  beginning  of  things  leads  us  to  a 
better  understanding  of  our  present  condition.  Many  a  blunder  would  have 
been  avoided  if  we  had  taken  up  primitive  ideas  and  studied  their  develop- 
ment instead  of  beginning  along  other  lines  in  our  endeavor  toward  human 
advancement.  There  is  where  we  have  made  a  mistake.  There  is  where 
governments  are  making  many  mistakes  in  dealing  with  primitive  peoples. 
We  tread  upon  aboriginal  customs  and  we  outrage  their  aboriginal  beliefs  and 
superstitions,  and  then  we  wonder  why  the  people  arise  and  refuse  to  accept 
the  laws  and  the  supposed  humane  treatment  that  is  offered  to  them.  Gov- 
ernments do  not  take  the  advice  of  those  who  could  teach  the  proper  methods 
of  dealing  with  alien  races.  It  is  the  trained  anthropologist  who  should  guide 
and  direct  such  work. 

As  one  of  the  means  to  this  end  we  must  encourage  the  publication  of 
the  results  of  anthropological  research.  During  the  few  years  of  its  existence 
this  Association  has  done  much  in  that  line.     Our  journal,  the  American  An- 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION  735 

thropologist  (New  Series),  is  published  quarterly,  and  is  now  in  its  seventh 
volume.  There  are  eleven  volumes  of  the  first  series  published  by  the  An- 
thropological Society  of  Washington.  Each  member  is  entitled  to  the  publi- 
cations of  the  Association,  beginning  with  the  year  of  membership.  We 
hope  many  new  members  will  be  added  to  the  Association  and  help  it  to  carry 
on  the  good  work. 

I  should  like  to  call  your  attention  to  what  is  being  done  in  anthropology 
the  world  over,  and  particularly  in  the  United  States,  where  there  are  several 
centers  of  active  research  and  great  museums  devoted  entirely  or  in  part  to 
anthropology  ;  but  as  the  time  will  not  permit  of  such  an  extended  review  I 
can  refer  only  to  the  important  work  that  is  being  done  at  Washington,  New 
York,  Chicago,  Philadelphia,  Pittsburg,  Cambridge,  New  Haven,  Salem, 
Andover,  and  many  other  places. 

Here  in  California  there  have  come  into  existence  two  centers  of  research 
—  one  in  the  south  at  Los  Angeles,  the  other  here  in  San  Francisco  and 
Berkeley.  Here  a  Department  of  Anthropology  has  been  created  through  the 
interest  and  generosity  of  one  of  the  regents  of  the  University,  Mrs  Phoebe 
A.  Hearst.  The  collections  temporarily  arranged  in  this  building  and  in  the 
building  at  Berkeley,  together  with  the  publications  of  the  department,  will 
give  you  some  idea  of  what  already  has  been  accomplished  through  the  inter- 
est of  Mrs  Hearst  in  the  Department  of  Anthropology  of  the  University  of 
California.  Lack  of  time  forbids  a  detailed  account  of  the  origin  and  growth 
of  the  department ;  I  will  simply  call  your  attention  to  the  pamphlet  prepared 
especially  for  this  meeting,  copies  of  which  await  your  acceptance.  This  gift 
from  Mrs  Hearst  to  the  University  can  but  be  an  incentive  to  others,  patrons 
and  students,  to  aid  in  making  a  great  anthropological  center  here  on  the 
Pacific  coast. 

I  now  have  the  pleasure  of  inviting  you  all  to  remain,  after  the  morning 
session,  as  the  guests  of  Mrs  Hearst,  who  will  be  pleased  to  meet  you  in  the 
adjoining  hall  where  luncheon  will  be  served.  After  the  luncheon  we  will 
make  an  examination  of  the  collections  in  the  several  halls  of  this  building. 
Then  we  will  reassemble  for  the  reading  of  papers. 

Dr  A.  L.  Kroeber,  Secretary  of  the  Committee  on  Program  and  Ar- 
rangements, and  President  Putnam  gave  an  outline  of  the  events,  scien- 
tific and  social,  proposed  for  the  week. 

The  list  of  new  members  elected  by  the  Council  was  read  ;  there  were 
twenty-six  elections. 

The  amendments  to  the  constitution  as  recommended  by  the  Council 
at  its  meetings  in  Philadelphia,  in  December  1904,  and  in  New  York  in 
April  1905,  were  read  to  the  Association  and  adopted. 

The  announcement  of  the  meeting  of  the  International  Congress  of 
Americanists  at  Quebec  in  September  1906  was  made. 


736  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Letters  of  regret  from  W.  D.  Alexander,  Honolulu ;  Julius  Gette,  S» 
J.,  Nulato,  Alaska ;  W.  E.  Roth,  Brisbane,  Queensland  ;  Charles  F.  Lum- 
mis,  Los  Angeles ;  T.  M.  Hocken,  New  Zealand ;  George  Grant  Mac- 
Curdy,  New  Haven ;  Karl  von  den  Steinen,  Steglitz-Berlin ;  N.  Le6n,. 
Mexico;  L.  Lejeal,  and  The  Anthropological  Society  of  Bombay  were 
laid  before  the  members.  Letters  of  regret  were  also  received  from  H. 
Brown,  Yuma ;  David  Boyle,  Toronto ;  W.  T.  Brigham,  Honolulu ;  F. 
V.  Coville,  Washington  ;  G.  A.  Dorsey,  Chicago ;  N.  B.  Emerson,  Hon- 
olulu ;  Miss  Alice  C.  Fletcher,  Washington ;  J.  Walter  Fewkes,  Wash- 
ington ;  George  Bird  Grinnell,  New  York ;  J.  W.  Hastings,  Cambridge ; 
F.  W.  Hodge,  Washington ;  E.  L.  Hewett,  Washington ;  A.  Hrdlicka, 
Washington  ;  H.  W.  Henshaw,  Washington  ;  B.  Talbot  B.  Hyde,  New 
York ;  J.  W.  Hudson,  Chicago ;  Carl  Purdy,  Ukiah,  California ;  A.  B. 
Jones,  Richmond;  W.  S.  Kahnweiler,  New  York;  James  Mooney^ 
Washington ;  G.  H.  Pepper,  New  York ;  L.  van  Panhuys,  The  Hague  ; 
C.  E.  Rumsey,  Riverside,  California ;  P.  S.  Sparkman,  Valley  Center, 
California ;  H.  S.  Symmes,  Idyllwild,  California ;  Alvin  Scale,  Stanford 
University,  California ;  C.  Wissler,  New  York ;  H.  I.  Smith,  New  York ; 
A.  M.  Tozzer,  "Cambridge ;  A.  C.  Vroman,  Pasadena ;  E.  P.  Vining,. 
San  Francisco ;  H.  R.  Voth,  Newton,  Kansas ;  Miss  J.  E.  Wier,  Reno, 
Nevada ;  W.  H.  Holmes,  Washington ;  R.  Etheridge,  Sydney,  N.  S.  W. 

The  Association  proceeded  to  the  presentation  and  discussion    of 
papers. 

President  Putnam,  representing  Mrs  Hearst,  extended  an  invitation 
to  luncheon  at  the  Affiliated  Colleges  following  adjournment. 

Adjourned  at  1:15  p.  m. 

A  session  was  held  at  the  Affiliated  Colleges  on  Tuesday,  August 
29,  at  3:40  p.  M.     President  Putnam  in  the  chair. 

The  list  of  additional  new  members  elected  by  the  Council  was  read  ; 
there  were  seven  elections. 

The  meeting  proceeded  to  the  presentation  and  discussion  of  papers. 

Adjourned  5:45  p.  m. 

Sessions  of  August  30 

Sessions  of  the  Association  were  held  on  Wednesday,  August  30, 
1905,  at  the  California  Academy  of  Sciences,  San  Francisco,  at  10:15 
A.  M.  and  2:15  p.  M.     President  Putnam  in  the  chair. 

Opening  the  session  of  the  morning,  Mr  Loomis,  Director  of  the 
California  Academy  of  Sciences,  welcomed  the  Association  to  the  hospi- 
tality of  the  Academy ;  later  an  invitation  to   luncheon  at  the  Hotel 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL   ASSOCIATION  737 

St  Francis  was  extended  by  Mr  Alpheus  Bull,  First  Vice-President  of  the 
Academy.  During  the  opening  remarks  of  President  Putnam  reference 
was  made  to  the  final  adjudication  of  the  difficulties  in  the  way  of  making 
peace  between  Japan  and  Russia. 

Papers  were  read  and  discussed  at  both  sessions. 

On  motion  of  Dr  C.  Peabody,  seconded  by  Mr  C.  Hill-Tout,  at  the 
morning  session,  the  Association  voted  that  a  committee  be  appointed  by 
the  President  to  report  at  the  next  regular  meeting  for  the  investigation 
of  the  question  whether  an  improvement  or  a  readjustment  of  the  names 
used  in  American  archeology  be  feasible.  At  the  afternoon  session  the 
President  announced  the  appointment  of  that  committee,  as  follows :  Dr 
C.  Peabody,  chairman ;  Prof.  John  H.  Wright,  Mr  W.  K.  Moorehead, 
Mr  F.  W.  Hodge,  Mr  J.  D.  McGuire. 

The  names  of  four  additional  new  members  elected  by  the  Council 
were  read. 

Adjournment  of  the  morning  session  was  at  12  m.  and  of  the  after- 
noon session  at  5:15  p.  m. 

Sessions  of  August  31 

In  conjunction  with  the  California  Branch  of  the  American  Folk- 
lore Society,  sessions  of  the  Association  were  held  at  the  University  of 
California,  Berkeley,  California,  on  Thursday  morning  at  South  Hall  and 
in  the  afternoon  at  the  building  of  the  Department  of  Anthropology, 
August  31,  1905. 

Papers  were  read  and  discussed  at  both  sessions. 

After  an  abstract  of  Dr  Kroeber's  paper  on  "Systematic  Nomen- 
clature in  American  Ethnology**  had  been  presented,  a  recommen- 
dation of  Mr  F.  W.  Hodge,  of  Washington,  was  quoted  favoring  the 
appointment  of  a  committee  to  consider  the  subject.  Dr  Dixon  moved  that 
a  committee  of  seven  or  eight  members  be  appointed  by  the  President  to 
report  at  the  next  regular  meeting  of  the  Association  on  the  most  desir- 
able nomenclature  for  Indian  linguistic  families  north  of  Mexico.  Sec- 
onded by  Dr  Peabody,  the  motion  was  carried. 

Before  adjournment  of  the  morning  session.  President  Putnam,  rep- 
resenting Mrs  Hearst,  extended  an  invitation  to  the  members  to  luncheon 
at  the  building  of  the  Department  of  Anthropology  of  the  University  of 
California. 

At  the  afternoon  session  the  list  of  three  additional  new  members 
elected  by  the  Council  was  read. 

Resolutions  as  follows  were  unanimously  passed  by  the  Association  : 
Resolutions  expressing  appreciation  of  the  courtesy  and  hospitality  of 


738  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s..  7,  1905 

Mrs  Phoebe  A.  Hearst,  of  the  Academy  of  Sciences  and  of  Vice-President 
Bull  and  Director  Loomis,  of  the  University  of  California  and  President 
Wheeler,  of  Mr  Luther  Burbank,  and  of  the  Leland  Stanford  Junior 
University;  also  expressing  appreciation  of  the  successful  energy  and 
direction  of  President  Putnam,  of  the  Association,  and  of  Dr  Kroeber, 
the  Secretary  of  the  Committee  on  Program  and  Arrangements ;  also  by 
the  visiting  members  expressing  their  appreciation  of  the  hospitality  of 
the  resident  members.  Remarks  were  made  by  Mr  Hill-Tout  and  Mr 
Keeler. 

The  President  announced  the  Committee  on  Nomenclature  of  Indian 
Linguistic  Families,  as  follows :  F.  W.  Hodge,  chairman  ;  Franz  Boas, 
R.  B.  Dixon,  G.  A.  Dorsey,  W.  H.  Holmes,  A.  L.  Kroeber,  James 
Mooney. 

At  the  end  of  the  session  papers  by  C.  P.  Mackie,  George  Grant 
MacCurdy,  C.  Hart  Merriam,  Albert  Ernest  Jenks,  A.  L.  Kroeber,  Miss 
Jeanne  Elizabeth  Wier,  N.  B.  Emerson,  Mrs  Zelia  Nuttall,  Alvin  Seale, 
Miss  Alice  C.  Fletcher,  James  Mooney,  J.  R.  Swanton,  and  W.  H. 
Holmes,  were  read  by  title. 

President  Putnam  announced  that  the  next  meeting  of  the  Association 
would  be  held  in  Ithaca,  New  York,  in  December  1905. 

Adjourned  at  4: 30  p.  m. 

C.  Peabodv,  Secretary  pro  tempore. 

Excursions  and  Entertainments 

On  Tuesday,  August  29,  luncheon  was  tendered  the  Association  by 
Mrs  Phoebe  A.  Hearst  in  the  Department  of  Anthropology  at  the  Affili- 
ated Colleges  of  the  University  of  California  in  San  Francisco.  In  the 
afternoon  an  exhibition  of  the  collections  of  the  Department  was  held, 
the  officers  of  the  Department  conducting  the  members  of  the  Association 
through  the  building  and  explaining  the  collections. 

On  Wednesday,  August  30,  a  luncheon  was  tendered  the  Association 
by  the  California  Academy  of  Sciences  at  the  St  Francis  Hotel,  Vice- 
President  Alpheus  Bull  making  an  address  of  welcome.  In  the  evening 
a  dinner  was  given  the  visiting  members  of  the  Association  by  the  resident 
members,  at  the  St  Francis  Hotel. 

On  Thursday,  August  31,  before  the  opening  of  the  morning  session. 
Prof  J.  C.  Merriam  conducted  a  party  to  the  Emeryville  Shellmound, 
explaining  the  excavations  made  in  the  mound  by  himself  and  Dr  Max 
Uhle.  On  the  same  day  luncheon  was  tendered  the  Association  by  Mrs 
Phoebe  A.  Hearst  in  the  building  of  the  Department  of  Anthropology  of 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION  739 

the  University  of  California  at  Berkeley.  After  luncheon  the  collection 
of  plaster  casts  illustrative  of  ancient  art  was  exhibited  as  arranged  in  this 
building. 

On  Friday,  September  i,  an  excursion  was  made  to  Mr  Luther  Bur- 
bank's  home  in  Santa  Rosa.  This  excursion  was  arranged  through  the 
courtesy  of  Mr  Burbank,  the  California  Promotion  Committee,  and  the 
California  Northwestern  Railway.     Thirty-four  members  took  part. 

On  Saturday,  September  2,  an  excursion  was  made  to  Leland  Stanford 
Junior  University.  The  buildings  and  grounds  were  shown  the  party  and 
luncheon  was  tendered  by  officers  of  the  University.  Twenty  members 
took  part  in  this  exclusion. 

Papers  Read* 
Sessions  of  August  2p 

Dr  Frederic  Ward  Putnam,  Director  of  the  Museum  of  Anthropology  of 
the  University  of  California,  and  Curator  of  the  Peabody  Museum  of 
Harvard  University :  Exhibition  of  Bones  ^  Possibly  Showing  the  Work 
of  Man,  from  Quaternary  Caves  of  California.  DRcussed  by  Mrs 
Herrick,  Hill-Tout,  J.  C.  Merriam.  '^ 

Mr  Charles  Hill-Tout,  Ethnological  Survey  of  Canada :  Some  Features 
of  the  Language  and  Culture  of  the  Salish,^  Discussed  by  Dixon, 
Goddard,  C.  Hart  Merriam,  Kroeber,  Barrett. 

Dr  C.  Hart  Merriam,  Chief  of  the  Biological  Survey,  Washington,  D.  C. : 
The  Indian  Population  of  California  ^f-  Discussed  by  Mrs  Herrick, 
McLeod,  Barrett. 

Dr  R.  B.  Dixon,  Harvard  University :  The  Mythology  of  the  Shasta- 
Achomawi.^    Discussed  by  Hill-Tout,  C.  H.  Merriam. 

Miss  Constance  Goddard  DuBois,  Waterbury,  Connecticut :  Religious 
Ceremonies  and  Myths  of  the  Mission  Indians.^  (Illustrated  with 
phonograph  records. )     Discussed  by  C.  H.  Merriam,  Peabody. 

Sessions  of  August  jo 

Mrs  R.  F.  Herrick,  Eureka,  California:  The  Indians  of  Humboldt  Bay. 
Discussed  by  Hill -Tout,  Keeler,  Rust. 

Dr  J.  C.  Merriam,  University  of  California  :  The  Exploration  of  Quater- 
nary Caves  in  California,  Illustrated  with  lantern  slides.  Discussed 
by  Peabody. 


1  The  papers  marked  with  an  asterisk  (*)  are  published  in  this  number  of  the  Amer- 
ican Anthropologist, 

AM.  ANTK.,  N.  S.,  J — 49 


740 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


["■  s.,  7,  IM 


Dr  A.  HrdliCkA,  Assistant  Curator,  Physical  Anthropology,  U.  5. 
National  Museum  :  A  Contribution  to  the  Physical  Artihropohgy  ^ 
California} 

Mr  S.  A.  Barrett,  University  of  California  :  Presentation  of  a  Map  Show- 
ing the  Territory,  Division,  Villages,  and  Camp-Sites  of  the  Pome 
Indians  of  California}    Discussed  by  C.  H,  Merriam,  Dixon. 

Dr  C.  Hart  Merriam,  Washington,  D.  C.  :  The  Chtevor  of  the  Tongva, 
a  Mortuary  Ceremony.     Discussed  by  Miss  DuBois,  Dixon,  Hill-Tout 

Mr  P.  S.  Sparkman,  Valley-Center,  California :  ITie  Grammar  of  the 
LuiseHo  Language  of  Southern  Calif ornia.''^  Discussed  by  HiU- 
Tout. 

Dr  Philip  Mills  Jones,  Secretary  and  Editor  of  the  Medical  Society  of  the 
State  of  California  :  A  New  Method  of  Preserving  Spedmens  of  Shell 
and  other  Perishable  Materials.*     Discussed  by  Putnam. 

Dr  Charles  Peabody  and  Mr  Warren  K.  Moorehead,  Archeotogical 
Museum  of  Philips  Academy,  Andover,  Massachusetts  :  77ie  //aming 
of  Specimens  in  American  Archeology}     Discussed  by  Hill-Tout, 

Dr  J.  C.  Merriam,  University  of  California ;  The  Excavations  at  Emery- 
ville Shellmound.  (Illustrated  with  lantern  slides.)  Discussed  by 
Dixon,  Hill-Tout,  Putnam. 

Mr  H.  N.  Rust,  South  Pasadena  :  A  Puberty  Ceremony  of  the  Mission 
Indians}     Discussed  by  Kroeber,  Miss  DuBois,  Hill- Tout,  Putnam. 

Dr  A.  L.  Kroeber,  University  of  California  :  Exhibition  of  a  Basket,  now 
in  the  Califomian  Academy  of  Sciences,  from  the  Extinct  Indians  of 
San  Nicolas  Island,  California.      Discussed  by  McLeod,  Rust. 

Mr  F.  I.  Monsen,  San  Francisco  :  Explorations  in  Northern  Arizona  and 
New  Mexico.      Discussed  by  Putnam. 

Sessions  of  August  ji 

Dr  A.  L.  Kroeber,  Secretary  of  the  Department  of  Anthropology,  Uni- 
versity of  California  :  Systematic  Nomenclature  in  Ethnology-}  Dis- 
cussed by  J.  C.  Merriam,  C.  H,  Merriam,  Hill-Tout,  Dixon,  Pea- 
body. 

Dr  C.  Hart  Merriam,  Washington,  D.  C.  :  Basket  Cave  Burial  in  Cali- 
fornia.    Discussed  by  McI-*od,  Putnam. 

Mr  H.  N.  Rust,  South  Pasadena:  The  Obsidian  Blades  of  California} 
Discussed  by  Putnam. 

Mr  S.  A.  Barrett,  University  of  California  :  Basket  Designs  of  the  Porno 
Indians.*     Discussed  by  C.  H.  Merriam. 


i_ 


'To  be  published  by  tbe  Univetsity  of  California. 
'  To  be  published  in  the  next  issue  of  the  Anurii 


1  Anthropologist. 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION  74 1 

Dr  P.  E.  Goddard,  Department  of  Anthropology,  University  of  Cali- 
fornia :  Mechanical  Aids  to  the  Study  and  Recording  of  Language,^ 
Discussed  by  Putnam. 

Dr  J.  C.  Merriam,  University  of  California :  Some  Suggestions  Concerning 
the  Origin  of  the  Calaveras  Skull,  (Illustrated  with  lantern  slides.) 
Discussed  by  Hill -Tout. 

Mr  Charles  Keeler,  Berkeley :  Creation  Myths  and  Folk-tales  of  the 
Manua  Islands,  Samoa.     Discussed  by  Dixon. 

Mr  J.  T.  Goodman,  Alameda:  Maya  Dates. ^     Discussed  by  Putnam. 

Mr  C.  C.  Willoughby,  Assistant  Curator,  Peabody  Museum  of  Harvard 
University :  A  Few  Ethnological  Specimens  Collected  by  Lewis  and 
Clark, ^ 

Mr  H.  N.  Rust,  South  Pasadena :  Exhibition  of  Implements  from  San 
Miguel  Island  used  for  Cutting  and  Working  Shell  Ornaments, 

Prof.  Howard  Swan,  Imperial  College,  Peking :  A  Systematic  Arrange- 
ment for  Recording  Dialects, 

Prof.  W.  H.  Holmes,  Chief  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology,  Wash- 
ington, D.  C. :  Antiquity  of  Man  in  North  America,  Discussed  by 
Putnam,  Peabody,  and  Swan. 

Dr  C.  F.  Newcombe,  Victoria,  B.  C.  :  Exhibition  of  Northwestern  Indian 
Designs.     Discussed  by  Hill-Tout. 

Papers  Read  by  Title 

Mr  Charles  F.  Lummis,  Secretary  of  the  Southwest  Society  of  the  Archae- 
ological Institute  of  America,  Los  Angeles :  Old  Indian  and  Spanish 
Folk  Songs  of  the  Southwest,     (Illustrated  with  phonograph  records. ) 

Mr  C.  P.  Mackie,  Englewood,  New  Jersey  :  A  Plea  for  the  More  Critical 
Use  of  History  in  Anthropological  Research. 

Dr  George  Grant  MacCurdy,  Yale  University  :  Eoliths  from  England  and 
Belgium. 

Dr  C.  Hart  Merriam,  Washington,  D.  C.  :  Basketry  of  California 
Indians. 

Dr  Albert  Ernest  Jenks,  Director  of  the  Ethnological  Survey  for  the  Philip- 
pine Islands,  Manila :    The  Peopling  of  the  Philippines. 

Dr  A.  L.  Kroeber,  University  of  California :  Indian  Systems  of  Consan- 
guinity in  California. 

Miss  Jeanne  Elizabeth  Wier,  Nevada  State  University :  The  Washoe  In- 
dians of  Nevada. 

Dr  N.  B.  Emerson,  Honolulu  :  Introduction  to  ^^  Unwritten  Literature  of 
Hawaii.  *  * 


742  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Mrs  Zelia  Nuttall,  Director  of  the  Crocker  Researches  in  Mexico  for  the 
Department  of  Anthropology  of  the  University  of  California :  The 
Earliest  Historical  Communications  between  Japan  and  Mexico^  from 
Original  Documents  Preserved  in  the  Archives  of  Japan ^  Recentbf 
Brought  to  Light  by  a  Mexican  Diplomat} 

Mr  Alvin  Seale,  Leland  Stanford  Junior  University :  Ceremonies  /delating 
to  Sickness  and  Death  in  the  Solomon  Islands, 

Miss  Alice  C.  Fletcher,  Washington,  D.  C. :  The  Earth  Lodge  and  Its 
Migrations. 

Mr  James  Mooney,  Washington,  D.  C.  :   The  Cheyenne  Indians, 

Mr  James  Mooney,  Washington,  D.  C. :     The  Caloosa  Tribe  of  F'lorida, 

Dr  J.  R.  Swanton,  Washington,  D.  C. :  The  Social  Organization  cf 
American  Tribes.^ 

Prof.  W.  H.  Holmes,  Washington,  D.  C. :  Architecture  of  the  Aborigines 
of  North  America, 

\  Prof.  W.  H.  Holmes,  Washington,  D.  C. :     Use  of  Copper  by  the  Abori- 

gines of  North  America. 

Prof.  W.  H.  Holmes,  Washington,  D.  C. :  Problematical  Objects  in  the 
Prehistoric  Archeology  of  North  America, 

Letters  op  Acknowledgment 

San  Francisco, 
Mrs  Phckbk  A.  Hearst,  September  5,  1905. 

PUasantan,  California, 
My  dear  Madam  :  At  the  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association 
held  at  Berkeley,  August  31,  1905,  the  following  resolution  was  unanimously  adopted : 
Resolved :  That  the  Association  desires  to  express  its  appreciation  of  the  courtesy  of 
Mrs  Phoebe  A.  Hearst  in  extending  to  the  Association  the  very  cordial  invitation  to 
luncheon  at  the  Affiliated  Colleges,  San  Francisco,  on  Tuesday,  August  29th,  and  at 
Berkeley,  August  31st.  The  Association  having  held  its  meetings  in  the  buildings  of 
the  Department  of  Anthropology  of  the  University  of  California  both  in  San  Francisco 
and  in  Berkeley,  a  Department  owing  its  initiation  and  its  prosperity  to  her  inspira- 
tion and  care,  deeply  feels  the  obligation  which  the  science  of  anthropology  has  to  Mrs 
Hearst  and  takes  this  means  of  tendering  to  her  its  cordial  recognition  of  her  im[x>rtant 
achievements.     I  am,  dear  Madam, 

Yours  respectfully, 

C.  Peabody,  Secretary  pro  tempore, 

San  Francisco, 

•  September  5,  1905. 

E.  J.  MoLERA,  Esq., 

President  of  the  California  Academy  of  Sciences,  San  Francisco, 

My  dear  Sir :   At  a  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association   held 

August  31st,  the  following  resolution  was  unanimously  adopted : 

^  To  be  published  by  the  University  of  California. 


AMERICA!^  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION  743 

Resolved :  That  the  Association  desires  to  express  its  appreciation  of  the  courtesy 
of  the  California  Academy  of  Sciences,  tendered  by  Vice-President  Bull  and  Director 
Loomis,  in  extending  to  the  Association  the  hospitality  of  its  building,  the  very  cordial 
invitation  to  luncheon  at  the  Hotel  St  Francis,  and  the  welcome  personally  given  by  its 
officers  on  Wednesday,  August  30,  1905. 

Respectfully  yours, 

C.  Pea  BODY,  Secretary  pro  tempore, 

San  Francisco, 

September  5,  1905. 
President  Benjamin  Ide  Wheeler, 

University  of  California,  Berkeley ,  California, 

My  dear  Sir  :  At  a  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association  held  August 

31st,  at  Berkeley,  the  following  resolution  was  unanimously  adopted : 

Resolved:  That  the  Association  desires  to  express  its  appreciation  of  the  courtesy  of 

the  University  of  California  as  tendered  by  President  Wheeler  in  his  cordial  greeting  of 

August  31st.  Respectfully  yours, 

C.  Peabody,  Secretary  pro  tempore. 

San  Francisco, 

September  5,  1905. 
Acting  President  J.  C.  Branner, 

Leland  Stanford  Junior  University,  Palo  Alto,  California, 
My  dear  Sir :  At  a  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association  held  at 
Berkeley,  August  31st,  the  following  resolution  was  unanimously  adopted  : 

Resolved :  That  the  Association  desires  to  express  its  appreciation  of  the  courtesy  of 
Leland  Stanford  Junior  University  in  extending  to  the  Association  the  very  cordial  invi- 
tation to  visit  the  University  and  to  luncheon  on  Saturday,  September  2d. 

Respectfully  yours, 

C.  Peabody,  Secretary  pro  tempore, 

San  Francisco, 

September  5,  1905. 
Mr  Luther  Burbank, 

Santa  Rosa,  California, 

My  dear  Sir :  At  a  meeting  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association  held  at 

Berkeley,  August  31st,  the  following  resolution  was  unanimously  adopted  : 

Resolved :  That  the  Association  desires  to  express  its  appreciation  of  the  courtesy  of 

Mr  Luther  Burbank  in  extending  to  the  Association  the  very  cordial  invitation  to  visit  his 

estate  at  Santa  Rosa  on  September  1st. 

Cordially  yours, 

C.  Peabody,  Secretary  pro  tempore^ 

San  Francisco, 

September  7,  1905. 
Dr  Charles  Peabody, 

Cambridge,  Massachusetts. 

Dear  Sir :  At  a  meeting  of  the  Council  of  the  American  Anthropological  Associa> 

tion,  held  in  San  Francisco,  September  5,  1905,  the  following  resolution  was  unanimously 

adopted : 


I 

III  • 


744  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  1905 

Resolved :  That  the  Council  expresses  its  appreciation  of  the  ability  and  self-sacri- 
ficing fidelity  of  Dr  Charles  Peabody  in  his  capacity  of  Secretary /r^  tempore  of  the  San 
Francisco  meeting  of  the  Association. 

Respectfully, 

A.  L.  Kroeber, 
Secretary^  Committee  of  Program  and  Arrangemtnts, 

San  Francisco, 

September  7,  1905. 
Mr  a.  W.  Foster, 

President^  California  Northwestern  Railway^ 
Mutual  Life  Buildings  San  Francisco. 
Dear  Sir  :  At  a  meeting  of  the  Council  of  the  American  Anthropological  Associa- 
tion, held  in  San  Francisco,  September  5,  1905,  the  following  resolution  was  unanimously 
adopted : 

Resolved :  That  the  Council  of  the  Association  desires  to  express  its  appreciation  of 
the  courtesy  of  the  California  Northwestern  Railway  in  tendering  the  use  of  a  special  car 
to  the  Association  for  its  excursion  to  Mr  Luther  Burbank  in  Santa  Rosa,  September  I. 

Respectfully, 

A.  L.  Kroeber, 
Secretary y  Committee  of  Program  and  Arrangetnents. 

San  Francisco, 

September  7,  1905. 
Mr  Rufus  p.  Jennings, 

California  Promotum  Committee, 

2^  New  Montgomery  St.,  San  Francisco, 
Dear  Sir  :  At  a  meeting  of  the  Council  of  the  American  Anthropological  Associa- 
tion, held  in  San  Francisco,  September  5,  1905,  the  following  resolution  was  unanimously 
adopted: 

Resolved:  That  the  Council  of  the  Association  desires  to  express  its  appreciation 
of  the  courtesies  and  efforts  extended  by  the  California  Promotion  Committee  on  behalf 
of  the  Association,  in  connection  with  the  meeting  and  excursions  of  the  Association  in 
San  Francisco,  August  29th  to  September  2d. 

Respectfully, 

C.  Peabody,  Secretary  pro  tempore. 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION  745 


CONSTITUTION    (OR  BY-LAWS*) 
As  Amended  August  29,  1905. 

Article  I.  —  Name, 

The  name  of  this  body  corporate  is  the  American  Anthropological 

Association. 

Article  II.  —  Obfects, 

The  objects  of  the  Association  are  to  promote  the  science  of  Anthro- 
pology ;  to  stimulate  the  efforts  of  American  anthropologists ;  to  coordi- 
nate anthropology  with  other  sciences ;  to  foster  local  and  other  societies 
devoted  to  Anthropology ;  to  serve  as  a  bond  of  union  among  American 
anthropologists  and  American  anthropological  organizations  present  and 
prospective ;  and  to  publish  and  encourage  the  publication  of  matter  per- 
taining to  Anthropology. 

Article  III.  — Membership, 

Section  i.  The  Association  may  include  four  classes  of  membership, 
viz.,  members,  life  members,  honorary  members, ^and  patrons. 

Sec.  2.  Persons  interested  in  Anthropology  maybe  elected  on  nomi- 
nation of  three  members  of  the  Association,  and  on  payment  of  dues 
shall  become  Members  of  the  corporation,  with  full  rights  of  voting  and 
holding  office. 

Sec  3.  Any  member  may  become  a  Life  Member  on  payment  of 
1 1 00  at  one  time. 

Sec.  4.  Persons  who  have  obtained  eminence  through  the  promotion 
of  anthropology  may  be  elected  as  Honorary  Members ;  they  shall  be  en- 
titled to  vote  and  hold  office,  shall  receive  the  publications  of  the  Associa- 
tion, and  shall  be  exempt  from  dues. 

Sec  5.  Persons  interested  in  Anthropology  who  may  at  one  time  con- 
tribute 1 1,000  or  more  to  the  Association  may  be  elected  as  Patrons ; 
they  shall  be  eligible  as  Members  or  Honorary  :Members,  shall  receive 
the  publications  of  the  Association,  and  shall  be  exempt  from  dues. 

Sec  6.  All  elections  to  membership  shall  be  by  the  Council  of  the 

Association. 

Article  IV. — Affiliations, 

The  Association  may  affiliate  with  other  organizations. 

1  Under  the  laws  of  the  District  of  Columbia  an  act  of  incorporation  is  equivalent  to 
a  constitntion,  and  the  more  detailed  regulations  become  by-laws. 


746  AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST  [n.  s.,  7,  190; 

Article  V. — Officers. 

Section  1 .  The  officers  of  the  Association  shall  comprise  a  Presidenc, 
four  Vice-Presidents,  a  Secretary,  a  Treasurer,  an  Editor,  and  twenty-fonr 
Councilors.  These,  with  the  ex -presidents,  shall  constitute  a  board  of 
managers  to  be  known  as  the  Council. 

Sec.  I.  The  President,  Secretary,  Treasurer,  and  Editor  shall  bt 
elected  annually  to  serve  for  one  year,  or  until  their  successors  are  elected 
and  installed.  One  Vice-President  and  six  Councilors  shall  be  elected 
annually  to  serve  for  four  years  or  until  their  successors  aje  elected. 

Sec.  3.  The  administration  of  the  Association,  including  the  lillii^ 
of  vacancies,  the  nomination  of  officers,  and  the  arrangement  of  affilia- 
tions, shall  be  entrusted  to  the  Council.     Five  shall  constitute  a  quoniin. 

Sec.  4.  The  President  shall  preside  at  the  meetings  of  the  Association 
and  of  the  Council,  or  may  delegate  this  duty ;  the  President  and  Secre- 
tary shall  sign  all  written  contracts  and  obligations  authorized  by  the 
Council. 

Sec.  5.  In  the  absence  or  incapacity  of  the  President  his  duties  shall 
devolve  on  the  Vice-Presidents  in  the  order  of  their  seniority  in  service. 

Sec.  6.  The  Secretary  shall  record  the  proceedings  of  the  Association 
and  of  the  Council,  conduct  correspondence,  make  an  annual  report,  and 
have  general  charge  of  executive  matters  under  the  direction  of  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Council. 

Sec.  7.  The  Treasurer  shall  have  charge  of  the  funds  and  other  prop- 
erty of  the  Association  under  regulations  fixed  by  the  Council,  shall  make 
collections  and  disbursements,  and  shall  render  an  annual  report ;  he  may 
be  required  to  give  bond  ;  and  his  accounts  shall  be  audited  annually  and 
at  such  other  times  as  the  Council  may  direct,  by  a  committee  of  three 
members  of  the  Association. 

Sec.  8.  The  Editor  shall  act  as  Secretary  of  the  Committee  on  Publi- 
cation and  perform  other  duties  as  directed  by  the  President  or  Council. 

Sec.  9.  The  officers  of  the  Association  shall  be  elected  by  majority 
ballot  of  the  members  present  at  regular  annual  meetings  after  open  nomi- 
nation, including  the  nominations  submitted  by  the  Council. 

Article  VI. — Metlings. 

Section  i.  A  regular  meeting  of  the  Association  and  of  the  Council 
shall  be  held  annually  in  December  or  January  ;  this  shall  be  the  annual 
meeting  for  the  election  of  officers  and  the  transaction  of  general  business. 

Sec.  2 .  Special  meetings  of  the  Association  or  of  the  Council  may  be 
held  on  vote  of  the  Council.     Special  meetings  of  the  Council  ntay  be 


Mi 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASSOCIATION  747 

called  by  the  President  with  the  concurrence  of  two  Vice-Presidents ;  and 
the  President  shall  call  a  special  meeting  of  the  Council  at  any  time  and 
place  on  the  written  demand  of  ten  members  of  the  Council. 

Sec.  3.  Notices  of  regular  meetings  shall  be  published  three  months 
in  advance,  and  printed  notices  of  meetings,  with  preliminary  programs 
of  the  scientific  proceedings,  shall  be  sent  to  all  members  at  least  a  week 
in  advance. 

Sec.  4.  Twenty  members  shall  constitute  a  quorum  of  the  Association. 

Article  VII. — Committees, 

Section  i.  There  shall  be  standing  committees  on  Program,  Finance, 
and  Publication.  These  committees  shall  be  appointed  at  the  annual 
meeting  by  the  incoming  President,  to  serve  until  their  successors  are 
designated.  The  Committee  on  Publication  shall  form  an  editorial  board 
in  charge  of  the  publications  of  the  Association. 

Sec  2.  All  committees  of  the  Association  and  of  the  Council  shall  be 
designated  by  the  President,  except  when  otherwise  provided ;  and  the 
President  shall  be  chairman  ex  officio  of  every  committee,  except  when 
otherwise  provided. 

Article  VIII. — Publications, 

The  Association  may  publish  a  periodical  journal  and  occasional 
memoirs,  and  the  periodical  journal  shall  be  sent  to  all  members  not  in 
arrears,  and  to  life  members,  honorary  members,  and  patrons,  and  may 
be  sold  by  subscription  or  otherwise. 

Article  IX. — Finances  and  Property, 

Section  i.  The  Association  may  acquire,  hold,  and  convey  property, 
both  personal  and  real. 

Sec  2.  The  fiscal  year  of  the  Society  shall  begin  on  the  first  day  of 
January. 

Sec  3.  The  annual  dues  of  members  shall  be  |6.oo ;  for  members  of 
the  American  Association  for  the  Advancement  of  Science  and  of  the 
American  Folk-Lore  Society  the  annual  dues  shall  be  $5.00  ;  for  members 
of  local  affiliated  societies  that  subscribe  for  the  American  Anthropologist 
for  each  of  their  members  and  which  have  adopted  the  American  Anthro- 
pologist ^&  their  official  organ,  the  annual  dues  shall  be  |i.oo. 

Sec  4.  Annual  dues  shall  be  payable  in  January ;  members  one  year 
in  arrears  shall  not  be  entitled  to  vote  or  to  receive  the  journal,  and 
members  two  years  in  arrears  shall,  after  formal  notification,  be  regarded 
as  withdrawn  from  the  Association. 


748 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.i 


,7.'! 


Sec.  s-  The  income  from  life  membership  and  such  other  moneys 
may  from  time  to  time  become  available  shall  be  regarded  as  a  pen 
□ent  fund,  which  may  be  invested  in  the  interests  of  the  Associatia 
The  income  Irom  annual  dues,  patrons'  payments,  interest  on  inve 
ments,  and  other  sources  may  be  regarded  as  a  worldns  fund,  avallat 
for  publication  and  other  current  expenses ;  but  any  surplus  of  this  lii 
beyond  current  needs  shall  be  added  to  the  permanent  fund. 

Sec.  6.  No  financial  obligation  in  excess  of  available  funds  in  I 
treasury  shall  be  assumed  by  the  Council  except  by  authority  of  a  t« 
thirds'  vote  of  the  members  present  at  a  regular  annual  meeting ;  providt 
that  for  the  purpose  of  this  section  annual  dues  and  subscriptions  for  I 
current  year  may  be  reckoned  as  available  funds. 

Article  X,  — Amendments. 

Section  i.  Amendments  to  this  Constitution  proposed  by  any  thi 
members  in  writing  shall  be  referred  to  the  Council,  and  notice  then 
shall  be  given  in  the  announcement  of  the  next  meeting  ;  they  shall 
brought  up  at  this  meeting,  and  if  approved  by  the  Council  may 
adopted  by  a  majority  vote  of  the  members  present,  but  if  disapprovi 
by  the  Council  shall  not  be  adopted  without  a  two-thirds'  vote  of  tl 
members  present. 

Sec.  3.  Amendments  shall  go  into  effect  immediately  on  adoption. 


INDEX  TO  AUTHORS  AND  TT  LES 


AcHOMAWi.     See  Shasta- Achomawi. 
Alabama,  urn-burial  in,  167 
American   Anthropological   Associa- 
tion, 354,  728 
— ,  Officers  and  members,  178 
— ,  Proceedings  of,  174,  732 
Anthropological    literature,   135,   328, 

534»  704 
Anthropological  Society  of  Washington, 

366 
Antiquities  of  Jemez  valley,  198 
— ,  Preservation  of,  164,  569 
Apache,  notes  on,  480  ^ 

Arcelin,  a.,  death  of,  364 
ARCHiEOLOGiCAL  INSTITUTE  of  America, 

166 
Archeology,  naming  of  specimens  in,  630 
Atlatls,  ancient  Mexican,  218 
Australia,  Chingalee  tribe  of,  301 

Bandelier,  a.  F.  Precolumbian  land- 
ings in  South  America,  250 ;  Ruins  at 
Sillustani,  Peru,  49 

Barrett,  S.  A.  Ba^et  designs  of  the 
Pomo,  648 

Basket  designs,  Pomo,  648 

Boas,  F.     On  facial  casts,  169 

BONTOC  Igorot,  clothing  of,  173 

Broadside,  an  interesting,  172 

Brower,  J.  v.,  death  of,  362 

Burial.     See  Graves,  Urn-burial. 

BURKITT,  R.  Kekchi  will  of  the  i6th 
century,  271 

BusHNELL,  D.  I.,  Jr.  An  Ojibwaj  cere- 
mony, 69  ;  Two  ancient  Mexican  at- 
latls, 218 

California,  folk-lore  meetings  in,  573, 730 

— ,  Indian  population  of,  594 

— ,  Obsidian  blades  of,  688 

—  Indians.      See  Mission  Indians,  Luis- 

efio,  Pomo,  Shasta-Achomawi. 
Casanowicz,  I.  M.    Jews  of  Mzab,  357 ; 

Clan  among  the  Semites,  366 
Casco-foot  in  the  Filipino,  509 
Casts,  facial  169 

Cavetown,  Md.,  explorations  at,  568 
Ceremonial  objects  from  Pueblo  Bonito, 

183,  575 
Ceremonies  of  Mission  Indians,  620 

Ceremony,  Ojibway,  69 


Chamberlain,  A.  F.  Periodical  athro- 
pological  literature,  135,  328,  534,  704 

Chamorro  language  of  Guam ,  305 

Cheyenne  plant  medicines,  37 

Chingalee,  social  organization  of,  301 

Clan  among  the  Semites,  366 

— ,  Iroquois,  366 

Clothing,  Bontoc  Igorot,  173 

— .    See  Dress. 

Columbia  University  courses  in  Anthro- 
pology* 358 

CoNGRfes    International   d'   Anthro- 

POLOGIE,  729 
Congr&s  International  d*  Expansion 

^coNOMiQUE,  357 
CoNGRjfes  Pr^historique  de  France,  356 
Congress  of  Americanists,  355,  729 
Cora,  cradle  of  the,  361 
Cradle,  a  Cora,  361 
CuLiN,  S.     Death  of  T.  V.  Kcam,  171 
Culture,  Salish,  features  of,  674 

Dates,  Majra,  642 

Deformation,  head,  among  Klamath,  360 
Designs,  basket,  of  the  Pomo,  648 
Dixon,  R.  B.     Mythology  of  the  Shasta- 
Achomawi,   607 ;    The  Shasta-Acho- 
mawi stock,  213 
DORSEY,  G«  A.     A  Pawnee  personal  medi- 
cine shrine,  496 
Dress  of  New  England  Indians,  499 
Dubois,  Constance  G.     Ceremonies  and 
myths  of  Mission  Indians,  610 

Education,  ethnic  factors  in,  i 
El  Morro,  inscriptions  at,  576 
EoUTHic  problem,  425 
Ethnic  factors  in  education,  i 
Ethnology,  systematic  nomenclature  in, 

579 

Facial  casts,  169 

Fallacies  respecting  the  Indians,  104 
Fewkes,  J.  W.,  on  inlaid  objects,  575 
Filipinos,  casco-foot  in,  509 
— .     See  Bontoc  Igorot. 
Fireplaces  in  South  Dakota  bad-lands,  44 
Florida,  ethnography  of,  368A 
Folk-lore  meetings  in  California,  573 
Foot.     See  Casco  foot 
Fountain  of  Youth,  Ponce  dc  Le6n  and 
the,  572 


749 


750 


AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 


[N.  s.,  7,  1905 


Gerard,  W.  R.  Ponce  de  Le6n  and  the 
Fountain  of  Youth,  572 ;  Virginia 
Indian  words,  222 

GoDDARD,  P.  E.  Mechanical  aids  to  the 
study  of  language,  613 

Goodman,  J.  T.     Majra  dates,  642 

Graves,  Indian,  in  western  Massachusetts, 
295 

Grinnell,  G.  B.  Cheyenne  plant  medi- 
cines, 37 

Guam,  Chamorro  language  of,  305 

Haida  and  Tlingit  myths,  94 

Head  deformation  among  Klamath,  360 

Henshaw,  H.  W.  Popular  fallacies  re- 
specting the  Indians,  104 

Herring-eggs,  Tlingit  method  of  collect- 
ing, 172 

Hewrtt,  £.  L.  Ethnic  factors  in  educa- 
tion, I  ;  Preservation  of  antiquities, 
164,  569  ;  The  so-called  oldest  house 
in  Santa  Fi,  576 

Hewitt,  J.  N.  B.  On  the  Iroquois  clan, 
366 

Hill-Tout,  C.  Features  of  the  language 
and  culture  of  the  Salish,  674 

Holmes,  W.  H.  Antiquities  of  Jemez 
valley,  198 

Hrdlicka,  a.  a  Cora  cradle,  361  ; 
Jay  feathers  in  Cora  ceremony,  730 ; 
Klamath  head  deformation,  360 ; 
Maricopa  weaving,  361 ;  Notes  on  the 
San  Carlos  Apadie,  480;  On  facial 
casts,  169  ;  Researches  in  the  South- 
west, 368D 

Hudson  river,  tale  in  language  of,  74 

Human  families,  sex  composition  of,  24 

Igorot.     See  Bontoc  Igorot. 
Indian  population  of  California,  594 
Indians,  popular  fallacies  respecting,  104 
— .     See  under  the  tribal  names. 
Inscriptions  at  El  Morro,  576 
International  Congress.  See  Congress. 
Iowa,  Muskwaki  Indians  of,  575 
Iroquois,  clans  of  the,  366 

Jay  feathers  in  Cora  ceremony,  730 

Jemez  valley,  antiquities  of,  198 

Jenks,  A.  E.  Bontoc-lgorot  clothing,  173  ; 
The  splayed  foot  in  the  Filipino,  509 

Jews  of  Mzab,  357 

JocHELSON,  W.  Essay  on  the  grammar  of 
the  Yukaghir  language,  369 

JoNF^,  Philip  M.  New  method  of  pre- 
serving perishable  materials,  654 

Justin  Winsor  prize,  171 

Keam,  T.  v.,  death  of,  171 
Kekchi',  will  of  the  i6th  century,  271 


Klamath  head  deformation,  360 
Kroeber,  a.  L.     On  obsidian  blades  of 
California,  690 ;  Supposed  Shoshone- 
ans  in  Lower  California,  570 ;   Syste- 
matic nomenclature  in  ethnology,  579 

LaFlesche,  F.     On   the   medicine   man, 

368E 
Language,  Chamorro,  of  Guam,  305 
— ,  Luisefio,  grammar  of,  656 
— ,  mechanical  aids  in  study  of,  613 
— ,  Mohican,  tale  in,  74 
— ,  Salish,  features  of,  674 
— ,  Virginia  Indian,  222,  524 
— ,  Yukaghir,  grammar  of,  369 
LEFfeVRE,  A.,  death  of,  364 
Le6n,   Ponce  de,   and   the   Fountain   of 

Youth,  572 
Lewis  and  Clark,  specimens  collected  by, 

633 
Louisiana  Purchase  Exposition,  awards, 

157 
Lower    California,    supposed    Shosho- 

neans  in,  570 
LuiSEfio  language,  grammar  of,  656 

MacCurdy,  G.  G.  Prehistoric  surgery, 
17  ;  The  Eolithic  problem,  425 

McGuiRE,  J.  D.     Death  of  Nadaillac,  169 

Maricopa  weaving,  361 

Maryland,  explorations  at  Cavetown,  568 

Massachusetts,  Indian  graves  in,  295 

Mathews,  R.  H.  Social  organization  of 
the  Chingalee  tribe,  301 

Matthews,   Washington,    obituary  of, 

514 
Maya  dates,  642 

Mechanical  aids  to  language  study,  613 

Medicine  man,  definition  of,  368E 

Medicine  shrine,  Pawnee,  496 

Medicines,  plant,  of  the  Cheyenne,  37 

Merriam,  C.   Hart.     Indian  population 

of  California,  594 
Mexico,  ancient  atlatlsfrom,  218 
Minnesota  Historical  Society,  363 
Mission  Indians,  ceremonies  of,  620 
Missouri  Historical  Society,  577 
Mohican  language,  tale  in,  74 
Mooney,  James.     Obituary  of  Washington 

Matthews,  514;  On   the  ethnography 

of  Florida,  368A 
Moore,  C.  B.     Um-burial  on  Mobile  bay, 

167 
Moorehead,  W.  K.     See  Peabody,    C, 

and  Moorehead. 
Muskwaki  Indians  of  Iowa,  575 
Mythology  of  the  Shasta- Achomawi,  607 
Myths,  Haida  and  Tlingit,  94 
—  of  Mission  Indians,  620 
Mzab,  Jews  of,  357 


INDEX  TO  AUTHORS  AND    TITLES 


751 


Nadaillac,  Marquis  de,  death  of,  169 

Names.     See  Nomenclature. 

New  England  Indians,  dress  and  orna- 
ments of,  499 

— ,  textile  fabrics  of,  85 

New  Mexico,  antiquities  of  Jemez  valley, 
198 

— ,  ceremonial  objects  from,  183,  575 

— ,  **  oldest  house"  in  Santa  F6,  576 

Nichols,  J.  B.  Sex-composition  of  human 
families,  24 

Nomenclature  of  American  archeology, 
630 

— ,  systematic,  in  ethnology,  579 

Obsidian  blades  of  California,  688 
OjiBWAY  ceremony,  69 
Ornaments  of  New  England  Indians,  499 
— ,  ceremonial,  from  Pueblo  Bonito,  183 

Paleolithic,  industry  antedating  the,  425 

Pawnee  medicine  shrine,  496 

Peabody,    Charles.       Explorations     at 

Cavetown,  Md.,  568 
—  and  Moorehead,  W.  K.     Naming  of 

specimens    in   American   archeology, 

630 
Pepper,  G.  H.     Ceremonial  objects  from 

Pueblo  Bonito,  183 
Peru,  ruins  at  Sillustani,  49 
Plant  medicines,  Cheyenne,  37 
PoMO,  basket  designs  of  the,  648 
Popular  fallacies  respecting  the  Indians, 

104 
Population,  Indian,  of  California,  594 
Precolumbian  landings  in  South  America, 

250 
Preservation  of  antiquities,  164,  569 
— ,  of  specimens,  new  method  for,  654 
Prince,  J.  D.     A  tale  in  the  Hudson  river 

Indian  language,  74 
Pueblo  Bonito,  ceremonial  objects  from, 

183 

Religious  ceremonies  of  Mission  Indi- 
ans, 620 

RiALLE,  J.  G.  de,  death  of,  303 

Richthofen,  F.,  death  of,  731 

Ruins  at  Sillustani,  Peru,  49 

— ,  See  Antiquities. 

Rust,  H.  N.  Obsidian  blades  of  Cali- 
fornia, 688 

Safford,  W.  £.     Chamorro  language  of 

Guam,  305 
Salisbury,  Stephen,  death  of,  730 
Salish,  language  and  culture  of,  674 
San  Carlos  Apache,  notes  on,  480 
Santa  Ffe,  "oldest  house*'  in,  576 


Semites,  clan  among  the,  366 
Sex-composition  of  human  families,  24 
Shasta- AcHOMAWi,  mythology  of  the,  607 

—  linguistic  stock,  213 

Sheldon,   A.    E.      Fireplaces    in    South 

Dakota  bad-lands,  44 
Shell,  method  of  preserving,  654 
Shoshoneans  in  Lower  California,  570 
Shrine,  Pawnee,  496 
Sillustani,  aboriginal  ruins  at,  49 
Smith,   H.    I.      Wisconsin  Archeological 

Society,  170,  566 
Social  organization  of  American  tribes, 

663 

—  of  the  Chingalee,  301 

South  America,  pre-Columbian  landings 

in,  250 
— .     See  Peru. 
South  Dakota,  fireplaces  in  bad-lands  oi^ 

44 
Sparkman,  p.  S.     Grammar  of  Luisefio 

language,  656 

Specimens  collected  by  Lewis  and  Clark, 

633 
— ,  method  of  preserving,  654 

— ,  naming  of,  in  archeology  630 

Surgery,  prehistoric,  17 

SwANTON,  J.  R.  Social  organization  of 
American  tribes,  663  ;  Tlingit  method 
of  collecting  herring-eggs,  172  ;  Types 
of  Haida  and  Tlingit  myths,  94 

Textile  fabrics  of  New  England  Indians, 

85 
Tlingit  and  Haida  myths,  94 

—  method  of  collecting  herring-eggs,   172 
Tooker,  W.  W.     An   interesting  broad- 
side, 172  ;  Some  more  about  Virginia 
names,  524 

Trephining,  prehistoric,  17 

Urn-burial  on  Mobile  bay,  Ala.,  167 

Virginia  Indian  words,  222,  524 
VouGA,  6mile,  death  of,  363 

Weaving,  Maricopa,  361 

— .     See  Textile  fabrics. 

Wilder,  H.  H.  Excavations  of  Indian 
graves  in  western  Massachusetts,  295 

Will,  Kekchi,  of  the  i6th  century,  271 

WiLLOUGHBY,  C.  C.  Dress  and  ornaments 
of  New  England  Indians,  499  ;  Speci- 
mens collected  by  Lewis  and  Clark, 
633  ;  Textile  fabrics  of  New  England 
Indians,  85 

Wisconsin  Archeological  Society,  170, 
566 

YuKAGHiR  LANGUAGE,  grammar  of,  369 


•••■ 

THE   CALIFORNIA   MEETING  -.^w     ! 

ol.  7,  No.  4  October-December,  ux«5 

AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGIST 

N£W  SERIES 

Jrgan  of  The  American  Anthropological  Associaiiofiy  the  AnihropoU\:^iciXl  5socirh  vj 

Washington^  afui  the  American  Ethnological  Society  of  New  York 

F.  V.  HODGE,  Editor,  WASHINGTON,  D.  C 


CONTENTS 

^\ystematic  Nomenclature  in  Ethnology,     A.   L.   Kroebrr    .         .         .  •  57<,^ 

The  Indian  Population  of  California,     C.   Hart  Merriam         .  .   594 

^lie  Mythology  of  the  Shasta- A chofnawi.  Roland  B.  Dixox  .  .  .607 
Mechanical  Aids  to  the  Study  and  Recording  of  Language,     P.   K.  Goddard 

(PLATK'XXXVI) 613 

'Religious  Ceremonies  and  Myths  of  the  Mission  Indians,     Constance  CjOi>- 

DARD  Dunois  ...........  62c 

The  N'aming  of  Specimens  in  American  Archeology,      Charles  Peai^ody  and 

Warren  K.  Moorkhkad  ........  630 

f  Fe7v  Ethnological  Specimens  Collected  by  Lewis  and  Clark,     Charles  C. 

Willoi:c;hjiy.     (plates  xxxvii-xxxviii) 633 

Maya  Dates,     J.  T.  Goodman  .         .         .         .         .  .  642 

lasket  Designs  tf  the  Porno  Indians.  S.  E.  PiARRFTT.  (plates  xxxix-xl)  64S 
1  Ne7v  Alethod  of  Presenting  Specimens  if  Shell  and  Other  Perishable  Ma- 

terials,     Philip  Mills  Jones  .         .         .         .         .  .         .654 

iketch  of  the  Grammar  of  the  Luiscno  Language  of  California,     P.  S.  Spark- 

MAN 656 

The  Social  Organization  of  American  Tribes.     John  R.  Swanton       .  .  6O3 

iome  Features  of  the  Language  and  Culture  of  the  Salish,     Charles  Hill- 
Tout       ............  674 

Hie  Obsidian  Blades  of  California,  Horatio  N.  Rust,  (plate  xli)  .  688 
5ooK  Reviews:  ^ 

Jknks  :   The  Huntor  I^orct,     Maoiiaik*  :  ^/  ^ ///7yrj/./<7r«'.'<r «/ Av/(flt».         .         .         .     696 

YjuodJcal  Liter  vriRE,  condiicteil  by  Dr  Alexander  F.  Chamijerlain    .   70.1 

kNTIIROPOLOGIC  MiSCKLI.XNI'A  : 

American  Aftthr  /•»/.•.•/•  / '  Issorititlut,  Ititn-tiationa!  Lofi:,"ms  of  Amcricatti'ita.  Ct^n- 
ji;r,'y  /n/f-f-nd/.'.-'ti.:,'  .r"  .Iftf':.!,.*-. /,.'/,'  fi  ,t"  Art.':t'o.'\^i''  Pr'hi\firiqNt'>.  J.iy  lu'athrr^ 
in  Cot\t  iWt'furny.     .Vin.'r  Xh*::'  .  ,  .  .  .  .  .728 

Proceedings  of  the  American  Anthropolohical  As.^(k:iation  (C^ilifornia 
Meeting)         ...........  732 

NDi'.x  to  Volume  7 •  749 


rUBLISIiri)  r^>t*ARTKRLY  n>R  Till'. 

AMERICAN  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  ASS0CL\T1()N 
Lancaster,  Pa.,  U.  S.  A.,  Tiir  New  Kra  rRiMTiNG  Company 


Subscription  in  the  United  States,  Canada,  and  Mexico:   Per  Number,  $125; 
Per  Year,  $4.00  net.    All  other  Subscriptions :   Per  Number, 

$1.25;   Per  Year,  $4.50  net. 

EMcred  At  the  Post  oflice  at  Lancaster,  Pennsylvania,  as  second-cIa»s  matter.    Act  oi  Congress  ot*  Match  7,  id;-:. 


American  Anthropologist 


TheAHUtrcAN  AtnirROPOLOcivr  (NewSeries)  is  puI>IUb<il iiiaiieriti 
Mch  numljcr  conulDing  aboui  184  ocuvo  piges,  wtih  iJlustndoru,  fate 
Inif  wi  unnml  vottitnc  of  736  pagn-  The  doniesiic  subicnr/lioa  iinw 
iftFonr  Dollars  per  yew,  net;  single  numbers.  $1.^5. 

Tht  editors  aim  u>  mak*  ihe  journal  a  medium  of  con.(ni.-(i;atTot 
Ixtween  siudenix  of  nil  branrhcs  of  Apthropology.      It»  coiii-.x 
(1}  h\gk-gn/ic  pajten  peruininp  to  all  psrtt  of  (he  doRuii. 
pology,  the  irchoii3il  pai[>cr«  txing  lltnitcd  in  number  uid   i' 
l>ncl<:r  coninbnitonx  on  aiiUiropoIogic  nittjcdi,  includioji  diM-uti^ti'i  n(j 
correponddne ;  (3)  revfewsof  anthropolopc  liWniurc;   (4)  < 
ou  periodica)  lUcnUiirt ;  and  (5)  mjnoT  notes  and  Dews. 

The  Editorial  Bonnl  iave  und<!f taken,  individiullx  and  ooUcctivlj 
to  caTjr  (Mil  the  purpOK  of  Ihc  journal  and  10  render  ji  reprcsefila 
of  ihe  Scteiue  t\(  Anthmpolofty,  and  e*jtcdalty  of  Anthropology  J 
AlTtcrica.  The  juunul  b  ccmilucled  uttder  the  ain]ucea  of  the  Auki 
AKniR<^>^Laaii:AL  Aamviaiiom,  and  it  b  ihe  organ  ftbo  of  the  Asrtli 
roLOCiic^AL  Soatrrr  ar  VVjuoiiivDTUtr  aiid  of  the  Awmicam  ErHNod 
ICAL  Soaerv  of  New  Vork, 

The  Oinimiiiec  on  I'uliUtafi'oD  earue«Uy  invite  the  cu5[tcratioa  ofll 
ittiidentsuf  Amiiroiwlojcy.  AldiDU|tb  cofiuibutJunsiolimitted  for  pvt 
CAlion  Are  reviewed,  m  &r  as  ptWhle,  by  mc(iitiet>  of  the  ComiDitK 
Ihc  contributon  of  uxepted  inkles  ate  alone  rcspooilble  for  opiid 
eXpKHted. 

Itie  tnin<owof  the  AueDiCA?'  AnTBKamuicisr  is  lodivKMiinatal 
widely  as  practicable,  for  the  use  of  scholars  and  nndcats,  the  reaulta^ 
Jinthropologic  invesiigattons.  lu  cxaci  to  wliich  ibc  niatertal  from  '\ 
AMintopouxiisr  out  be  otiliEMl  to  advantage  in  cannectiou  with  i 
ihnf^kAlVgrc  work,  the  Cotumince  will  be  prepared,  unlcs  there  muf  fl 
i)iedal  reiuoDS  te  the  coninvy,  to  give  pennissiaa  fur  tlie  lee  of  1 
niaicrial. 

Auihors  &nd  pabli&ben  are  invited  to  «nd  10  the  ICdilar,  furti 
loHal  consideration  in  the  AuericaK  AitniRuroLOiitET,  wnrla  ururicj 
tiftt  iliaractcr  that  are  likely  to  prove  of  interest  to  the  readers  ^ 
the  jo\ifnal.  PcriodicsU  of  anlhiopoloficai  inlercKt  detigned  far  reidn 
-^tiould  be  sent  t\>  lit  A.  F.  ChainbciUin,  Ctark  Univcraity,  Worcei'^ 
Matsachiutelti. 

All  Cdciiilliutiacu  to  Itic  maguine  and  all  conc*iiODile(ic«  of  an  odhorfaT 
oxure  fltiould  Ik  uldteaaeil  tu  llic  Editor.  Mr  P.  W.  KODQB,  1311  K  ■i.-eri. 
H,  W.,  Wa.hmg!on.D.C, 

Currotponidaace  pcnauimf  to  aubscripilan*  tliould  b*  a^drcttied  AMBR- 
ICAN  ANTMROPOL0018T.  41  Nonh  Queen  Si^  i-ancutei,  P%^  ar  10  Mr 
B.  TALBOT  ».  HVOE,  Treuurei  oi  ibe  AmcDcao  Anitaropakrskal  Aaao<i< 
atioQ.  Amcncan  Uutium  of  Nmiual  Huidry,  New  Vork  City.  N.  V. 


A  limttod  number  of  sets  '(Volomes  T  to  VI,   189] 
1904)  of  die  AuE-RifAS  AKTiiRoroLOGisT  (NewStries  )  i 
lie  supplied  at  the  rate:  of  $3.50  per  Volumt;.  in  numbei 
When  exhausted  tin-  nmnbers  will  not  be  reprinttd. 


American 
Anthropological  Association 


OFFICKRS 

/*rfsUcnf:  F.  W,  Pltnxm,  ('urator  of  the  roabody    Museum,    Harvani 

University,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
VicC'Presi it'*it.  jtjoS  :  W.  H.  Holmes,  Chief  of  the  IJureau  of  American 

F-thnolot;v,  Washim^ton,  I).  C. 
Vice- President^   ii)oy :  Miss  Alice  C.  Flkti  iikr,   ex-President  of  the 

Anthropoloi^ic  al  Society  of  Washington. 
llce-Pre'suieut,  i()o6:  (JK«)Rr;K  \.    Uurskx,    Curnlor  of  Anlhropolo.L'v, 

Field  Cohnnbian  Mu.seum,  Chi<;;igo.  Illinois. 
Vice-Presuicui^  n^o^ :  Franz  1Jo.\s,  Curator  of  Anthropology,  .Vmeritan 

Museum  of  Natural  History,  New  York  (!ity. 
Secretary:  Gi;oRc;r.  Grant  MacCurdy,  Curator  of  Anthropology,  Pea- 
body  Museum,  Yale  University,  New  Maven,  Conn. 
Treaaurer :  P*.  Talbot  P».  Hypk,  American  Museum  of  Natural  History, 

New  York  City. 
Ktiitor :  V.  W.  Hodge,  1333  F  street,  N.  W.,  Washington.  D.  C. 

COMMITTEE  OX  Pr/ilJCATIOX 
F.  \V.  PCTNAM,  C/iiiinnau  e\-  o/fixio. 

Jl'AN  15.  AMBRi»sr.lTl,  Mv^^l:.|  N\<:k.n\i,  lifiNn-  Aires,  ARtiivriNA. 
KR.WIv  llAKl  R,  .Smiiii-jonmn  iNsiiiiriuN,  \Vami:n«;ion.  1>.  *.'. 
FRAN/  i;<  jA*^,  Ami.kii  \n  Mi'ski'm  «ii    Nah  uai.  UisinRv,  NhW  V«»RK. 

l).\Vll)     |;<.»VLi:,    I>Fl.\RiMKNr  «>F  Kl»i\A:ioN,  T0R0NH),  CaNM'A. 

ALKXANDKK  V.  <  IIAMIJKRI.AIN',  I.lvku  L'nivi  rshv,  \V..K..Kyri.R,  Ma>.s. 
ALFRLIh;  cnAVi:R<M;iiYi.j  Mixico. 
STKWARI'  CILIN,  Hic^-mkiyn  In>j  iitik  Mi  sum. 

GEOR(;!-    A.     !H»RS1:Y,    FlKI.D   t^»I.LMi:!AN    .Ml  >l  IM,    Ch;C.\(.;o,   Ill'.Ni^IS. 

T.  WAL'IFR  MAVKK>.  Ucrkm    <m    Ami  rlan  KriiNonKiY,  Wasiiivhun.  I).  C 

ALICF.  (.'.   KLKTCIIKK,  Pi:m{o!»v  M-shm,  <.  AMHKin(;i ,  M.\>sa  :him  ;  rs. 

\Y.  II.  II' »i.MKs.  r.i  5.8  .\r'  .K  Amikkan  Kiun«»Im';y,  \YAsniN'.ii'»N,   1).  C 

II.  VON   1HF.R1N(;,  M.^iT-    Faui  lA,  >\n  Pailo,  I.;ra/ii.. 

.•\.   L.   KR«  'KUr.R,  AiKN  iAii.i)  Omj.i.c.i  s,  .S\N'  Franviscu,  C\i  ikor.ma. 

ROlM»I.r»>  l.KN/.  S\MiA«.i.»  UK  Cmii-,  Ciifi.i. 

\Y  I  M;»iI'F.,  .*^\iNr  I.i"  1-  Pim  i-:  .M- -»!  s  m.  Si.   Lori>,  Mo. 

•.'IIAULI;"^  L'FAi;  >1jV,  rniiL[i>  a   vdkmy,  Anl).>vfr,  Mass. 


,.>■<« 


'■^iS'' . 


•^'\a  *^ 


UNIVERSITY  OF  MICHIQ^ 


ill 


3   9015  03345 


Replaced  vvHb  r'-mm«n»F<ii  Minmfr^rm 

1993 


•■;'.•* 


^-    ( 


J 


!P 


*e 


••. 


«. 


I 


