\ 


VOL"^ 


THE  AMERICAN 
SCHOLAR 


Digitized  by  tiie  Internet  Arciiive 

in  2011  witii  funding  from 

Tiie  Institute  of  Museum  and  Library  Services  through  an  Indiana  State  Library  LSTA  Grant 


http://www.archive.org/details/americanscholarOOinpark 


The  American  Scholar 


BY 


THEODORE   PARKER 


EDITED    WITH    NOTES 
BY 

GEORGE  WILLIS   COOKE 


BOSTON 

AMERICAN   UNITARIAN   ASSOCIATION 

25  Beacon  Street 


Copyright,  1907 
American  Unitarian  AssociATioiir 


Pbessttobk  by  The  Uniyersitt  Press,  Cambbidoe,  U.S.A. 


EDITOR'S   PREFACE 

Into  this  volume  have  been  collected  a  number  of 
Theodore  Parker's  more  scholarly  and  critical  essays, 
originally  published  in  the  various  reviews  with  which 
he  was  connected  in  one  or  another  capacity.  To  these 
have  been  added  three  or  four  studies  of  great  preachers. 
The  title  of  the  initial  essay,  at  first  used  as  a  college 
address,  has  been  thought  an  appropriate  one  for  the 
whole  volume. 

The  essays  on  Follen,  Beecher,  and  Macaulay  have 
not  before  been  reprinted  from  the  reviews  in  which  they 
first  appeared.  That  on  Dr.  Follen  was  printed  in  The 
Dial,  and  was  the  first  of  Parker's  remarkable  series  of 
character  studies.  As  the  work  of  a  young  man  it  will 
be  found  worthy  to  lead  the  way  to  the  studies  of 
Adams  and  Webster.  The  essay  on  Macaulay  appeared 
in  the  Massachusetts  Quarterly  Review,  and  by  what 
oversight  Miss  Cobbe  failed  to  include  it  in  her  edition, 
it  is  impossible  now  to  say.  Parker's  only  contribution 
to  The  Atlantic  Monthly,  in  its  first  volume,  was  the  essay 
on  Henry  Ward  Beecher.  It  was  his  last  work  of  this 
kind,  and  probably  concluded  his  many  contributions  to 
magazine  literature.  It  shows  how  highly  he  appreciated 
the  great  Brooklyn  preacher. 

All  of  these  essays  show  forth  Parker's  humanity,  and 
his  great  admiration  for  real  men.  They  also  indicate 
his  keen  critical  insight  into  social  causes,  as  well  as  his 
fearless  regard  for  the   truth.     He  did  not  write   to 


Copyright,  1907 
American  Unitarian  Association 


Peksswoek  by  The  Untvebsitt  Pexss,  CABiBErDOE,  U.  S.  A. 


EDITOR^S   PREFACE 

Into  this  volume  have  been  collected  a  number  of 
Theodore  Parker's  more  scholarly  and  critical  essays, 
originally  published  in  the  various  reviews  with  which 
he  was  connected  in  one  or  another  capacity.  To  these 
have  been  added  three  or  four  studies  of  great  preachers. 
The  title  of  the  initial  essay,  at  first  used  as  a  college 
address,  has  been  thought  an  appropriate  one  for  the 
whole  volume.  • 

The  essays  on  Follen,  Beecher,  and  Macaulay  have 
not  before  been  reprinted  from  the  reviews  in  which  they 
first  appeared.  That  on  Dr.  Follen  was  printed  in  The 
Dial^  and  was  the  first  of  Parker's  remarkable  series  of 
character  studies.  As  the  work  of  a  young  man  it  will 
be  found  worthy  to  lead  the  way  to  the  studies  of 
Adams  and  Webster.  The  essay  on  Macaulay  appeared 
in  the  Massachusetts  Quarterly  Review,  and  by  what 
oversight  Miss  Cobbe  failed  to  include  it  in  her  edition, 
it  is  impossible  now  to  say.  Parker's  only  contribution 
to  The  Atlantic  Monthly,  in  its  first  volume,  was  the  essay 
on  Henry  Ward  Beecher.  It  was  his  last  work  of  this 
kind,  and  probably  concluded  his  many  contributions  to 
magazine  literature.  It  shows  how  highly  he  appreciated 
the  great  Brooklyn  preacher. 

All  of  these  essays  show  forth  Parker's  humanity,  and 
his  great  admiration  for  real  men.  They  also  indicate 
his  keen  critical  insight  into  social  causes,  as  well  as  his 
fearless  regard  for  the   truth.     He  did  not  write   to 


vi  EDITOR'S   PREFACE 

flatter,  nor  to  make  the  worse  appear  the  better  reason. 
Literary  charm  and  perfection  of  style  did  not  satisfy 
him ;  but  he  demanded  that  justice  should  be  upheld 
and  right  sought  for  with  singleness  of  aim. 

G.  W.  C. 


CONTENTS 

Page 

I.   The  American  Scholar 1 

II.    Ralph  Waldo  Emerson 54 

III.  William  Ellery  Channlng 126 

IV.  Prescott  as  an  Historian 172 

V.   Prescott's  Conquest  of  Mexico      .     .     .  220 

VI.    Hildreth's  United  States 268 

VII.    Macaulay's  History  of  England  .     .     .  323 

VIII.    Buckle"'s  History  of  Civilization  .     .     .  864 

IX.    Henry  Ward  Beecher 419 

X.   Life  and  Character  of  Dr.  Pollen  .     .  439 

XI.    German  Literature 463 

Notes 497 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Men  of  a  superior  culture  get  it  at  the  cost  of  the 
whole  community,  and  therefore  at  first  owe  for  their 
education.  They  must  pay  back  an  equivalent  or  else 
remain  debtors  to  mankind,  debtors  for  ever;  that  is, 
beggars  or  thieves,  such  being  the  only  class  that  are 
thus  perpetually  in  debt  and  a  burden  to  the  race. 

It  is  true  that  every  man,  the  rudest  Prussian  boor  as 
well  as  von  Humboldt,  is  indebted  to  mankind  for  his 
culture,  to  their  past  history  and  their  existing  in- 
stitutions, to  their  daily  toil.  Taking  the  whole  cul- 
ture into  the  account,  the  debt  bears  about  the  same 
ratio  to  the  receipt  in  all  men.  I  speak  not  of  genius, 
the  inborn  faculty  which  costs  mankind  nothing,  only 
of  the  education  thereof,  which  the  man  obtains.  The 
Irishman  who  can  only  handle  his  spade,  wear  his  gar- 
ments, talk  his  wild  brogue,  and  bid  his  beads,  has  four 
or  five  hundred  generations  of  ancestors  behind  him, 
and  is  as  long  descended  and  from  as  old  a  stock  as  the 
accomplished  patrician  scholar  at  Oxford  and  Berlin. 
The  Irishman  depends  on  them  all,  and  on  the  present 
generation,  for  his  culture.  But  he  has  obtained  his 
development  with  no  special  outlay  and  cost  of  the  hu- 
man race.  In  getting  that  rude  culture  he  has  ap- 
propriated nothing  to  himself  which  is  taken  from 
another  man's  share.  He  has  paid  as  he  went  along, 
so  he  owes  nothing  in  particular  for  his  education ;  and 
mankind  has  no  claim  on  him  as  for  value  received. 

But  the  Oxford  graduate  has  been  a  long  time  at  school 
II-l  1 


2  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

and  college,  not  earning  but  learning;  living  therefore 
at  the  cost  of  mankind,  with  an  obligation  and  an  im- 
plied promise  to  pay  back  when  he  comes  of  age  and 
takes  possession  of  his  educated  faculties.  He  there- 
fore has  not  only  the  general  debt  which  he  shares  with 
all  men,  but  an  obligation  quite  special  and  peculiar  for 
his  support  while  at  study. 

This  rule  is  general,  and  applies  to  the  class  of  edu- 
cated men,  with  some  apparent  exceptions,  and  a  very 
few  real  ones.  Some  men  are  born  of  poor  but  strong- 
bodied  parents,  and  endowed  with  great  abilities ;  they 
inherit  nothing  except  their  share  of  the  general  civili- 
zation of  mankind,  and  the  onward  impulse  which  that 
has  given.  These  men  devote  themselves  to  study ; 
and  having  behind  them  an  ancestry  of  broad-shoul- 
dered, hard-handed,  stalwart,  temperate  men,  and  deep- 
bosomed,  red-armed,  and  industrious  mothers,  they  are 
able  to  do  the  work  of  two  or  three  men  at  the  time. 
Such  men  work  while  they  study ;  they  teach  while  they 
learn ;  they  hew  their  own  way  through  the  wood  by 
superior  strength  and  skill  born  in  their  bones,  with 
an  axe  themselves  have  chipped  out  from  the  stone,  or 
forged  of  metal,  or  paid  for  with  the  result  of  their  first 
hewings.  They  are  specially  indebted  to  nobody  for 
their  culture.  They  pay  as  they  go,  owing  the  acad- 
emic ferryman  nothing  for  setting  them  over  into  the 
elysium  of  the  scholar. 

Only  few  men  ever  make  this  heroic  and  crucial  ex- 
periment. None  but  poor  men's  sons  essay  the  trial. 
Nothing  but  poverty  has  whips  sharp  enough  to  sting 
indolent  men,  even  of  genius,  to  such  exertion  of  the 
manly  part.  But  even  this  proud  race  often  runs  into 
another  debt;  they  run  up  long  scores  with  the  body, 
which  must  one  day  be  paid  "  with  aching  head  and 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  3 

squeamish  heart-burnings."  The  credit  on  account  of 
the  hardy  fathers  is  not  without  hmit.  It  is  soon  ex- 
hausted ;  especially  in  a  land  where  the  atmosphere,  the 
institutions,  and  the  j^outh  of  the  people  all  excite  to 
premature  and  excessive  prodigality  of  effort.  The 
body  takes  a  mortgage  on  the  spendthrift  spirit,  de- 
mands certain  regular  periodic  payments,  and  will  one 
day  foreclose  for  breach  of  condition,  impede  the 
spirit's  action  in  the  premises,  putting  a  very  dis- 
agreeable keeper  there,  and  finally  expel  the  prodigal 
mortgagor.  So  it  often  happens  that  a  man  who  in 
his  youth  scorned  a  pecuniary  debt  to  mankind  and 
would  receive  no  favor,  even  to  buy  culture  with,  has 
yet  unconsciously  and  against  his  will,  contracted  debts 
which  trouble  him  in  manhood,  and  impede  his  action 
all  his  life;  with  swollen  feet  and  blear  eyes  famous 
Griesbach  pays  for  the  austere  heroism  of  his  penurious 
and  needy  youth.  The  rosy  bud  of  genius  on  the 
poor  man's  tree,  too  often  opens  into  a  lean  and  ghastly 
flower.      Could  not  Burns  tell  us  this? 

With  the  rare  exceptions  just  hinted  at,  any  man  of 
a  superior  culture  owes  for  it  when  obtained.  Some- 
times the  debt  is  obvious ;  a  farmer  with  small  means 
and  a  large  family  sends  the  most  hopeful  of  his  sons  to 
college.  Look  at  the  cost  of  the  boy's  culture.  His 
hands  are  kept  from  work  that  his  mind  may  be  free. 
He  fares  on  daintier  food,  wears  more  and  more  costly 
garments.  Other  members  of  the  family  must  feed 
and  clothe  him,  earn  his  tuition-fees,  buy  his  books, 
pay  for  his  fuel  and  room-rent.  For  this  the  father 
rises  earlier  than  of  old,  yoking  the  oxen  a  great  while 
before  day  of  a  winter's  morning,  and  toils  till  long 
after  dark  of  a  winter's  night,  enduring  cold  and 
hardship.     For  this  the  mother  stints  her  frugal  fare, 


4  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

her  humble  dress ;  for  this  the  brothers  must  forego 
sleep  and  pastime,  must  toil  harder,  late  and  early 
both ;  for  this  the  sisters  must  seek  new  modes  of  profit- 
able work,  must  wear  their  old  finery  long  after  it  is 
finery  no  more.  The  spare  wealth  of  the  family, 
stinted  to  spare  it,  is  spent  on  this  one  youth.  From 
the  father  to  the  daughters,  all  lay  their  bones  to  ex- 
traordinary work  for  him ;  the  whole  family  is  pinched 
in  body  that  this  one  youth  may  go  brave  and  full. 
Even  the  family  horse  pays  his  tax  to  raise  the  educa- 
tion fee. 

Men  see  the  hopeful  scholar,  graceful  and  accom- 
plished, receiving  his  academic  honors,  but  they  see 
not  the  hard-featured  father  standing  unheeded  in  the 
aisle,  nor  the  older  sister  in  an  obscure  corner  of  the 
gallery,  who  had  toiled  in  the  factory  for  the  favored 
brother,  tending  his  vineyard,  her  own  not  kept ;  who 
had  perhaps  learned  the  letters  of  Greek  to  hear  him 
recite  the  grammar  at  home.  Father  and  sister  know 
not  a  word  of  the  language  in'  which  his  diploma  is 
writ  and  delivered.  At  what  cost  of  the  family  tree  is 
this  one  flower  produced  .'^  How  many  leaves,  possible 
blossoms,  yea,  possible  branches,  have  been  absorbed  to 
create  this  one  flower,  which  shall  perpetuate  the  kind, 
after  being  beautiful  and  fragrant  in  its  own  season? 
Yet,  while  these  leaves  are  growing  for  the  blossom's 
sake,  and  the  life  of  the  tree  is  directed  thither  with 
special  and  urgent  emphasis,  the  diff^erence  between 
branch  and  blossom,  leaf  and  petal,  is  getting  more 
and  more.  By  and  by  the  two  cannot  comprehend  each 
other ;  the  acorn  has  forgotten  the  leaf  wliich  reared  it, 
and  thinks  itself  of  another  kin.  Grotius,  who  speaks 
a  host  of  languages,  talking  with  the  learned  of  all 
countries    and   of    every    age,    has    forgot   his    mother 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  5 

tongue,  and  speech  is  at  end  with  her  that  bore  him. 
The  son,  accompHshed  with  many  a  science,  many  an 
art,  ceases  to  understand  the  simple  consciousness  of 
his  father  and  mother.  They  are  proud  of  him,  that 
he  has  outgrown  them ;  he  ashamed  of  them  when  they 
visit  him  amid  his  scholarly  company.  To  them  he  is 
a  philosopher,  they  only  clowns  in  his  eyes.  He  learns 
to  neglect,  perhaps  to  despise  them,  and  forgets  his 
obligation  and  his  debt.  Yet  by  their  rudeness  is  it 
that  he  is  refined.  His  science  and  literary  skill  are 
purchased  by  their  ignorance  and  uncouthness  of  man- 
ner and  of  speech.  Had  the  educational  cost  been 
equally  divided  all  had  still  continued  on  a  level ;  he 
had  known  no  Latin,  but  the  whole  family  might  have 
spoken  good  English.  For  all  the  difference  which 
education  made  betwixt  him  and  his  kinsfolk  he  is  a 
debtor. 

In  New  England  you  sometimes  see  extremes  of  so- 
cial condition  brought  together.  The  blue-frocked 
father,  well  advanced,  but  hale  as  an  October  morn- 
ing, jostles  into  Boston  in  a  milk-cart,  his  red-cheeked 
grand-daughter  beside  him,  also  coming  for  some  use- 
ful daily  work,  while  the  youngest  son,  cultured  at  the 
cost  of  that  grand-daughter's  sire  and  by  that  father's 
toil,  is  already  a  famous  man ;  perhaps  also  a  proud 
one,  eloquent  at  the  bar,  or  powerful  in  the  pulpit,  or 
mighty  in  the  senate.  The  family  was  not  rich  enough 
to  educate  all  the  children  after  this  costly  sort ;  one 
becomes  famous,  the  rest  are  neglected,  obscure,  and 
perhaps  ignorant ;  the  cultivated  son  has  little  sympa- 
thy with  them.  So  the  men  that  built  up  the  cathe- 
drals of  Strasbourg  and  Milan  slept  in  mean  hutches 
of  mud  and  straw,  dirty,  cold,  and  wet ;  the  finished 
tower  looks  proudly  down  upon  the  lowly  thatch,  all 


6  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

heedless  of  the  cost  at  which  itself  arose.  It  is  plain 
that  this  man  owes  for  his  education,  it  is  plain  whom  he 
owes.  But  all  men  of  a  superior  culture,  though  born 
to  wealth,  get  their  education  in  the  same  way,  only 
there  is  this  additional  mischief  to  complicate  the  mat- 
ter ;  the  burden  of  self-denial  is  not  borne  by  the  man's 
own  family,  but  by  other  fathers  and  mothers,  other 
brothers  and  sisters.  They  also  pay  the  cost  of  his 
culture,  bear  the  burden  for  no  special  end,  and  have 
no  personal  or  family  j  oy  in  the  success ;  they  do  not 
even  know  the  scholar  they  help  to  train.  They  who 
hewed  the  topstone  of  society  are  far  away  when  it  is 
hoisted  up  with  shouting.  Most  of  the  youths  now-a- 
days  trained  at  Harvard  College  are  the  sons  of  rich 
men,  yet  they  also,  not  less,  are  educated  at  the  public 
charge ;  beneficiaries  not  of  the  "  Hopkins'  Fund,"  ^ 
but  of  the  whole  community.  Society  is  not  yet  rich 
enough  to  afford  so  generous  a  culture  to  all  who  ask, 
who  deserve,  or  who  would  pay  for  it  a  hundred-fold. 
The  accomplished  man  who  sits  in  his  well-endowed 
scholarship  at  Oxford,  or  rejoices  to  be  "  Master  of 
Trinity,"  though  he  have  the  estate  of  the  Westmin- 
sters and  Sutherlands  behind  him,  is  still  the  beneficiary 
of  the  public  and  owes  for  his  schooling. 

In  the  general  way,  among  the  industrious  classes  of 
New  England,  a  boy  earns  his  living  after  he  is  twelve 
years  old.  If  he  gets  the  superior  education  of  the 
scholar  solely  by  the  pecuniary  aid  of  his  father  or 
others,  when  he  is  twenty-five  and  enters  on  his  pro- 
fession,—  law,  medicine,  or  divinity,  politics,  school- 
keeping,  or  trade,  he  has  not  earned  his  Latin  gram- 
mar ;  has  rendered  no  appreciable  service  to  mankind ; 
others  have  worked  that  he  might  study,  and  taught 
that  he  might  learn.     He  has  not  paid  the  first  cent 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  7 

towards  his  own  schooling;  he  is  indebted  for  it  to  the 
whole  community.  The  ox-driver  in  the  fields,  the 
paver  in  the  city  streets,  the  laborer  on  the  railroad, 
the  lumberer  in  the  woods,  the  girl  in  the  factory,  each 
has  a  claim  on  him.  If  he  despises  these  persons  or 
cuts  himself  off  from  sympathy  with  them,  if  he  refuses 
to  perform  his  function  for  them  after  they  have  done 
their  possible  to  fit  him  for  it,  he  is  not  only  the  per- 
petual and  ungrateful  debtor,  but  is  more  guilty  than 
the  poor  man's  son  who  forgets  the  family  that  sent 
him  to  college ;  for  that  family  consciously  and  will- 
ingly made  the  sacrifice,  and  got  some  satisfaction  for 
it  in  the  visible  success  of  their  scheme,  nay,  are  some- 
times proud  of  the  pride  which  scorns  them,  while  with 
the  mass  of  men  thus  slighted  there  is  no  return  for 
their  sacrifice.  They  did  their  part,  faithfully  did  it ; 
their  beneficiary  forgets  his  function. 

The  democratic  party  in  New  England  does  not 
much  faA'^or  the  higher  seminaries  of  education.  There 
has  long  been  a  suspicion  against  them  in  the  mass  of 
the  community,  and  among  the  friends  of  the  public 
education  of  the  people  a  serious  distrust.  This  is  the 
philosophy  of  that  discontent :  public  money  spent  on 
the  higher  seminaries  is  so  much  taken  from  the  hum- 
bler schools,  so  much  taken  from  the  colleges  of  all  for 
the  college  of  the  few ;  men  educated  at  such  cost  have 
not  adequately  repaid  the  public  for  the  sacrifice  made 
on  their  account;  men  of  superior  education  have  not 
been  eminently  the  friends  of  mankind,  they  do  not 
eminently  represent  truth,  justice,  philanthropy,  and 
piety ;  they  do  not  point  men  to  lofty  human  life  and 
go  thitherward  in  advance  of  mankind ;  their  superior 
education  has  narrowed  their  sympathies,  instead  of 
widening;  they  use  their  opportunities  against  man- 


8  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

kind,  and  not  in  its  behalf;  think,  write,  legislate,  and 
live  not  for  the  interest  of  mankind,  but  only  for  a 
class ;  instead  of  eminent  wisdom,  justice,  piety,  they 
have  eminent  cunning,  selfishness  and  want  of  faith. 
These  charges  are  matters  of  allegation,  judge  you  if 
they  be  not  also  matters  of  fact. 

Now,  there  is  a  common  feeling  amongst  men  that 
the  scholar  is  their  debtor,  and  in  virtue  of  this  that 
they  have  a  right  to  various  services  from  him.  No 
honest  man  asks  the  aid  of  a  farmer  or  a  blacksmith 
without  intending  to  repay  him  in  money ;  no  assembly 
of  mechanics  would  ask  another  to  come  two  hundred 
miles  and  give  them  a  month's  work,  or  a  day's  work. 
Yet  they  will  ask  a  scholar  to  do  so.  What  gratuitous 
services  are  demanded  of  the  physician,  of  the  minister, 
of  the  man  of  science  and  letters  in  general !  No  poor 
man  in  Boston  but  thinks  he  has  a  good  claim  on  any 
doctor ;  no  culprit  in  danger  of  liberty  or  life  but  will 
ask  the  services  of  a  lawyer  wholly  without  recompense 
to  plead  his  cause.  The  poorest  and  most  neglected 
class  of  men  look  on  every  good  clergyman  as  their 
missionary  and  minister  and  friend ;  the  better  edu- 
cated and  more  powerful  he  is,  the  juster  and  greater 
do  they  feel  their  claim  on  him.  A  pirate  in  gaol  may 
command  the  serAaces  of  any  Christian  minister  in  the 
land.  Most  of  the  high  achievements  in  science,  let- 
ters, and  art,  have  had  no  apparent  pay.  The  pay 
came  beforehand ;  in  general  and  from  God,  in  the 
greater  ability,  "  the  vision  and  the  faculty  divine," 
but  in  particular  also  and  from  men,  in  the  opportunity 
afforded  them  by  others  for  the  use  and  culture  there- 
of. Divinely  and  humanly  they  are  well  paid.  Men 
feel  that  they  have  this  right  to  the  services  of  the 
scholar,  in  part  because  they  dimly  know  that  his  su- 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  9 

perlor  education  is  purchased  at  the  general  cost. 
Hence,  too,  the}^  are  proud  of  the  few  able  and  ac- 
complished men,  feeling  that  all  have  a  certain  prop- 
erty therein,  as  having  contributed  their  mite  to  the 
accumulation,  hy  their  divine  nature  related  to  the 
men  of  genius,  by  their  human  toil  partners  in  the 
acquirements  of  the  scholar.  This  feeling  is  not  con- 
fined to  men  who  intellectually  can  appreciate  intellec- 
tual excellence.  The  little  parish  in  the  mountains, 
and  the  great  parish  in  the  city,  are  alike  proud  of  the 
able-headed  and  accomplished  scholar  who  ministers  to 
them  ;  though  neither  the  poor  clowns  of  the  village 
nor  the  wealthy  clowns  of  the  metropolis  could  enter 
into  his  consciousness  and  understand  his  favorite  pur- 
suits or  loftiest  thought.  Both  would  think  it  insult- 
ing to  pay  such  a  man  in  full  proportion  to  his  work 
or  their  receipt.  Nobody  offers  a  salary  to  the  House 
of  Lords ;  their  lordship  is  their  pay,  and  they  must 
give  back,  in  the  form  of  justice  and  sound  govern- 
ment, an  equivalent  for  all  they  take  in  high  social 
rank.  They  must  pay  for  their  nobihty  by  being  noble 
lords. 

How  shall  the  scholar  pay  for  his  education  .-^  He  is 
to  give  a  service  for  the  service  received.  Thus  the 
miller  and  the  farmer  pay  one  another,  each  paying 
■with  service  in  his  own  kind.  The  scholar  cannot  pay 
back  bread  for  bread,  and  cloth  for  cloth.  He  must 
pay  in  the  scholar's  kind,  not  the  woodman's  or  the 
weaver's.  He  is  to  represent  the  higher  modes  of 
human  consciousness  ;  his  culture  and  opportunities  of 
position  fit  him  for  that.  So  he  is  not  merely  to  go 
through  the  routine  of  his  profession  as  minister,  doc- 
tor,   lawyer,    merchant,    school-master,    politician,    or 


10  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

maker  of  almanacs,  and  for  his  own  advantage;  he  is 
also  able  to  represent  truth,  justice,  beauty,  philan- 
thropy, and  religion,  the  highest  facts  of  human  ex- 
perience ;  he  must  be  common,  but  not  vulgar,  and,  as  a 
star,  must  dwell  apart  from  the  vulgarity  of  the  sel- 
fish and  low.  He  may  win  money  without  doing  this, 
get  fame  and  power,  and  thereby  seem  to  pay  mankind 
for  their  advance  to  him,  while  he  rides  upon  their 
neck ;  but  as  he  has  not  paid  back  the  scholar's  cost, 
and  in  the  scholar's  way,  he  is  a  debtor  still,  and  owes 
for  his  past  culture  and  present  condition. 

Such  is  the  position  of  the  scholar  everywhere,  and 
such  his  consequent  obligation.  But  in  America  there 
are  some  circumstances  which  make  the  position  and 
the  duty  still  more  important.  Beside  the  natural 
aristocracy  of  genius,  talent,  and  educated  skill,  in 
most  countries  there  is  also  a  conventional  and  perma- 
nent nobility  based  on  royal  or  patrician  descent  and 
immoveable  aristocracy.  Its  members  monopolize  the 
high  places  of  society,  and  if  not  strong  by  nature  are 
so  by  position.  Those  men  check  the  natural  power 
of  the  class  of  scholars.  The  descendant  of  some  fa- 
mous chief  of  old  time  takes  rank  before  the  Bacons, 
the  Shakespeares,  and  the  Miltons  of  new  families, — 
born  yesterday,  to-day  gladdened  and  gladdening  with 
the  joy  of  their  genius, —  usurps  their  place,  and  for 
a  time  "  shoves  away  the  worthy  bidden  guest  "  from 
the  honors  of  the  public  board.  Here  there  is  no  such 
class :  a  mah  born  at  all  is  well  born ;  with  a  great  na- 
ture, nobly  born ;  the  career  opens  to  all  that  can  run, 
to  all  men  that  wish  to  try ;  our  aristocracy  is  movable, 
and  the  scholar  has  scope  and  verge  enough. 

Germany  has  the  largest  class  of  scholars ;  men  of 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  11 

talent,  sometimes  of  genius,  of  great  working  power, 
exceedingly  well  furnished  for  their  work,  with  a 
knowledge  of  the  past  and  the  present.  On  the  whole, 
they  seem  to  have  a  greater  power  of  thought  than  the 
scholars  of  any  other  land.  They  live  in  a  country 
where  intellectual  worth  is  rated  at  its  highest  value. 
As  England  is  the  paradise  of  the  patrician  and  the 
millionaire,  so  is  Germany  for  the  man  of  thought ; 
Goethe  and  Schiller  and  the  Humboldts  took  prece- 
dence of  the  mere  conventional  aristocracy.  The  em- 
pire of  money  is  for  England,  that  of  mind  is  for  Ger- 
many. But  there  the  scholar  is  positively  hindered  in 
his  function  by  the  power  of  the  government,  which 
allows  freedom  of  thought,  and  by  education  tends  to 
promote  it,  yet  not  its  correlative  freedom  of  speech, 
and  still  less  the  consequent  of  that,  freedom  of  act. 
Revelations  of  new  thought  are  indeed  looked  for,  and 
encouraged  in  certain  forms,  but  the  corresponding 
revolution  of  old  things  is  forbidden.  An  idea  must 
remain  an  idea ;  the  government  will  not  allow  it  to 
become  a  deed,  an  institution,  an  idea  organized  in  men. 
The  children  of  the  mind  must  be  exposed  to  die,  or  if 
left  alive  their  feet  are  cramped  so  that  they  cannot 
go  alone;  useless,  joyless,  and  unwed,  they  remain  in 
their  father's  house.  The  government  seeks  to  estab- 
lish national  unity  of  action  by  the  sacrifice  of  individ- 
ual variety  of  action,  personal  freedom ;  every  man 
must  be  a  soldier  and  a  Christian,  wearing  the  livery  of 
the  government  on  the  body  and  in  the  soul,  and  going 
through  the  spiritual  exercises  of  the  church  as  through 
the  manual  exercise  of  the  camp.  In  a  nation  so  en- 
lightened, personal  freedom  cannot  be  wholly  sacrificed, 
so  thought  is  left  free,  but  speech  restricted  by  censor- 
ship, speech  with  the  human  mouth  or  the  iron  lips 


12  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

of  the  press.  Now,  as  of  old,  is  there  a  controversy  be- 
tween the  temporal  and  the  spiritual  powers  about  the 
investiture  of  the  children  of  the  soul. 

Then,  on  the  other  side,  the  scholar  is  negatively  im- 
peded by  the  comparative  ignorance  of  the  people,  by 
their  consequent  lack  of  administrative  power  and  self- 
help,  and  their  distrust  of  themselves.  There  a  great 
illumination  has  gone  on  in  the  upper  heavens  of  the 
learned,  meteors  coruscating  into  extraordinary  glory ; 
it  has  hardly  dawned  on  the  low  valleys  of  the  common 
people.  If  it  shines  there  at  all,  it  is  but  as  the  North- 
ern Aurora,  with  a  little  crackling  noise,  lending  a 
feeble  and  uncertain  light,  not  enough  to  walk  with, 
and  no  warmth  at  all ;  a  light  which  disturbs  the  dip 
and  alters  the  variation  of  the  old  historical  compass, 
bewilders  the  eye,  hides  the  stars,  and  yet  is  not  bright 
enough  to  walk  by  without  stumbling.  There  is  a 
learned  class,  very  learned  and  very  large,  with  whom 
the  scholar  thinks,  and  for  whom  he  writes,  most  un- 
couthly,  in  the  language  only  of  the  schools ;  and  if 
not  kept  in  awe  by  the  government,  they  are  contented 
that  a  thought  should  remain  always  a  thought;  while 
in  their  own  heart  they  disdain  all  authority  but  that 
of  truth,  justice,  and  love,  they  leave  the  people  sub- 
ject to  no  rule  but  the  priest,  the  magistrate,  and  old 
custom,  which  usurp  the  place  of  reason,  conscience, 
and  affections.  There  is  a  very  enlightened  pulpit, 
and  a  very  dull  audience.  In  America,  it  is  said,  for 
every  dough- faced  ^  representative  there  is  a  dough- 
faced  constituency ;  but  in  Germany  there  is  not  an  in- 
telligent people  for  each  intelligent  scholar.  So  on 
condition  a  great  thought  be  true  and  revolutionary,  it 
is  hard  to  get  it  made  a  thing.  Ideas  go  into  a  nun- 
nery, not  a  family.     Phidias  must  keep  his  awful  Jove 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  13 

only  in  his  head ;  there  is  no  marble  to  carve  it  on. 
Eichhorn  and  Strauss,  and  Kant  and  Hegel,  with  all 
their  pother  among  the  learned,  have  kept  no  boor  from 
the  communion-table,  nor  made  him  discontented  with 
the  despotism  of  the  state.  They  wrote  for  scholars, 
perhaps  for  gentlemen,  for  the  enlightened,  not  for  the 
great  mass  of  the  people,  in  whom  they  had  no  confi- 
dence. There  is  no  class  of  hucksters  of  thought  who 
retail  philosophy  to  the  million.  The  million  have  as 
yet  no  appetite  for  it.  So  the  German  scholar  is  hin- 
dered from  his  function  on  either  land  by  the  power  of 
the  government,  or  the  ignorance  of  the  people.  He 
talks  to  scholars  and  not  men ;  his  great  ideas  are  often 
as  idle  as  shells  in  a  lady's  cabinet. 

In  America  all  is  quite  different.  There  are  no 
royal  or  patrician  patrons,  no  plebeian  clients  in  litera- 
ture, no  immoveable  aristocracy  to  withstand  or  even 
retard  the  new  genius,  talent,  or  skill  of  the  scholar. 
There  is  no  class  organized,  accredited,  and  confided  in, 
to  resist  a  new  idea ;  only  the  unorganized  inertia  of 
mankind  retards  the  circulation  of  thought  and  the 
march  of  men.  Our  historical  men  do  not  found  his- 
torical famihes ;  our  famous  names  of  to-day  are  all 
new  names  in  the  state.  American  aristocracy  is  bot- 
tomed on  money  which  no  unnatural  laws  make  stead- 
fast and  immoveable.  To  exclude  a  scholar  from  the 
company  of  rich  men  is  not  to  exclude  him  from  an  au- 
dience that  will  welcome  and  appreciate. 

Then  the  government  does  not  interfere  to  prohibit 
the  free  exercise  of  thought.  Speaking  is  free,  preach- 
ing is  free,  printing  free.  No  administration  in  Amer- 
ica could  put  down  a  newspaper  or  suppress  the  dis- 
cussion of  an  unwelcome  theme.  The  attempt  would 
be   folly   and   madness.     There   is   no   "  tonnage    and 


14.  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

poundage  "  on  thought.  It  is  seldom  that  lawless  vio- 
lence usurps  the  place  of  despotic  government.  The 
chief  opponent  of  the  new  philosophy  is  the  old  phi- 
losophy. The  old  has  only  the  advantage  of  a  few 
years,  the  advantage  of  possession  of  the  ground.  It 
has  no  weapons  of  defense  which  the  new  has  not  for 
attack.  What  hinders  the  growth  of  the  new  democ- 
racy of  to-day  ?  —  only  the  old  democracy  of  yester- 
day, once  green,  and  then  full-blown,  but  now  going 
to  seed.  Everywhere  else  walled  gardens  have  been 
built  for  it  to  go  quietly  to  seed  in,  and  men  appointed, 
in  God's  name  or  the  state's,  to  exterminate  as  a  weed 
every  new  plant  of  democratic  thought  which  may 
spring  up  and  suck  the  soil  or  keep  off  the  sun,  so  that 
the  old  may  quietly  occupy  the  ground  and  undisturbed 
continue  to  decay  and  contaminate  the  air.  Here  it 
has  nothing  but  its  own  stalk  to  hold  up  its  head,  and 
is  armed  with  only  such  spines  as  it  has  grown  out  of 
its  own  substance. 

Here  the  only  power  which  continually  impedes  the 
progress  of  mankind,  and  is  conservative  in  the  bad 
sense,  is  wealth,  which  represents  life  lived,  not  now  a 
living,  and  labor  accumulated,  not  now  a  doing.  Thus 
the  obstacle  to  free  trade  is  not  the  notion  that  our 
meat  must  be  home-grown  and  our  coat  home-spun,  but 
the  money  invested  in  manufactures.  Slavery  is  sus- 
tained by  no  prestige  of  antiquity,  no  abstract  fond- 
ness for  a  patriarchal  institution,  no  special  zeal  for 
"  Christianity  "  which  the  churches  often  tell  us  de- 
mands it,  but  solely  because  the  Americans  have  in- 
vested some  twelve  hundred  millions  of  dollars  in  the 
bodies  and  souls  of  their  countrymen,  and  fear  they 
shall  lose  their  capital.  Whitney's  gin  for  separating 
the  cotton  from  its  blue  seed,  making  its  culture  and 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  15 

the  labor  of  the  slave  profitable,  did  more  to  perpetuate 
slavery  than  all  the  "  Compromises  of  the  Constitu- 
tion." The  last  argument  in  its  favor  is  always  this: 
"  It  brings  money,  and  we  would  not  lose  our  invest- 
ment." Weapon  a  man  with  iron,  he  will  stand  and 
fight ;  with  gold,  he  will  shrink  and  run.  The  class  of 
capitalists  are  always  cowardly ;  here  they  are  the  only 
cowardly  class  that  has  much  political  or  social  in- 
fluence. Here  gold  is  the  imperial  metal,  nothing  but 
wealth  is  consecrated  for  life ;  the  tonsure  gets  covered 
up  or  grown  over ;  vows  of  celibacy  are  no  more  bind- 
ing than  dicers'  oaths ;  allegiance  to  the  state  is  as 
transferable  as  a  cent,  and  may  be  alienated  by  going 
over  the  border ;  church-communion  may  be  changed  or 
neglected ;  as  men  will,  they  sign  off  from  church  ^  and 
state ;  only  the  dollar  holds  its  own  continually,  and  is 
the  same  under  all  administrations,  "  safe  from  the  bar, 
the  pulpit,  and  the  throne."  Obstinate  money  contin- 
ues in  office  spite  of  the  proscriptive  policy  of  Polk  and 
Taylor  ;^  the  laws  may  change,  South  Carolina  move 
out  of  the  nation,  the  Constitution  be  broken,  the  Union 
dissolved,  still  money  holds  its  own.  That  is  the  only 
peculiar  weapon  which  the  old  has  wherewith  to  repel 
the  new. 

Here,  too,  the  scholar  has  as  much  freedom  as  he 
will  take ;  himself  alone  stands  in  his  own  light,  noth- 
ing else  between  him  and  the  infinite  majesty  of  truth. 
He  is  free  to  think,  to  speak,  to  print  his  word  and 
organize  his  thought.  No  class  of  men  monopolize 
public  attention  or  high  place.  He  comes  up  to  the 
Genius  of  America,  and  she  asks :  "  What  would  you 
have,  my  little  man  ? "  "  More  liberty,"  lisps  he. 
"  Just  as  much  as  you  can  carry,"  is  the  answer. 
"  Pay  for  it  and  take  it,  as  much  as  you  Hke,  there  it 


16  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

is."  "  But  it  is  guarded !  "  "  Only  by  gilded  flies  in 
the  day-time ;  they  look  like  hornets,  but  can  only  buzz, 
not  bite  with  their  beak,  nor  sting  with  their  tail.  At 
night  it  is  defended  by  daws  and  beetles,  noisy,  but 
harmless.  Here  is  marble,  my  son,  not  classic  and  fa- 
mous as  yet,  but  good  as  the  parian  stone;  quarry  as 
much  as  you  will,  enough  for  a  nymph  or  a  temple. 
Say  your  wisest  and  do  your  best  thing,  nobody  will 
hurt  you ! " 

Not  much  more  is  the  scholar  impeded  by  the  igno- 
rance of  the  people,  not  at  all  in  respect  to  the  sub- 
stance of  his  thought.  There  is  no  danger  that  he 
will  shoot  over  the  heads  of  the  people  by  thinking  too 
high  for  the  multitude.  We  have  many  authors  be- 
low the  market,  scarce  one  above  it.  The  people  are 
continually  looking  for  something  better  than  our  au- 
thors give.  No  American  author  has  yet  been  too  high 
for  the  comprehension  of  the  people,  and  compelled 
to  leave  his  writings  "  to  posterity,  after  some  cen- 
turies shall  have  passed  by."  If  he  has  thought  with 
the  thinkers,  and  has  something  to  say,  and  can  speak 
it  in  plain  speech,  he  is  sure  to  be  widely  understood. 
There  is  no  learned  class  to  whom  he  may  talk  Latin 
or  Sanscrit,  and  who  will  understand  him  if  he  write 
as  ill  as  Immanuel  Kant ;  there  is  not  a  large  class  to 
buy  costly  editions  of  ancient  classics,  however  beau- 
tiful, or  magnificent  works  on  India,  Egypt,  Mexico  — 
the  class  of  scholars  is  too  poor  for  that,  the  rich  men 
have  not  the  taste  for  such  beauty ;  but  there  is  an  in- 
telligent class  of  men  who  will  hear  a  man  if  he  has 
what  is  worth  listening  to  and  says  it  plain.  It  will 
be  understood  and  appreciated,  and  soon  reduced  to 
practice.  Let  him  think  as  much  in  advance  of  men  as 
he  will,  as  far  removed  from  the  popular  opinion  as  he 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  17 

may,  if  he  arrives  at  a  great  truth  lie  is  sure  of  an 
audience,  not  an  audience  of  fellow-scholars,  as  in  Ger- 
many, but  of  fellow-men ;  not  of  the  children  of  dis- 
tinguished or  rich  men,  rather  of  the  young  parents  of 
such,  an  audience  of  earnest,  practical  people,  who  if 
his  thought  be  a  truth  will  soon  make  it  a  thing.  They 
will  appreciate  the  substance  of  his  thought,  though 
not  the  artistic  form  which  clothes  it. 

This  peculiar  relation  of  the  man  of  genius  to  the 
people  comes  from  American  institutions.  Here  the 
greatest  man  stands  nearest  to  the  people,  and  without 
a  mediator  speaks  to  them  face  to  face.  This  is  a 
new  thing:  in  the  classic  nations  oratory  was  for  the 
people,  so  was  the  drama  and  the  ballad ;  that  w  as  all 
their  literature.  But  this  came  to  the  people  only  in 
cities ;  the  tongue  travels  slow  and  addresses  only  the 
ear,  while  swiftly  hurries  on  the  printed  word  and 
speaks  at  once  to  a  million  eyes.  Thucydides  and  Tac- 
itus wrote  for  a  few ;  Virgil  sang  the  labors  of  the 
shepherd  in  old  Ascrasan  verse,  but  only  to  the  wealthy 
wits  of  Rome.  "  I  hate  the  impious  crowd,  and  stave 
them  off,"  was  the  scholar's  maxim  then.  All  writing 
was  for  the  few.  The  best  English  literature  of  the 
sixteenth  and  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries  is 
amenable  to  the  same  criticism,  except  the  dramatic  and 
the  religious.  It  is  so  with  all  the  permanent  litera- 
ture of  Europe  of  that  time.  The  same  must  be  said 
even  of  much  of  the  religious  hterature  of  the  scholars 
then.  The  writings  of  Taylor,  of  Barrow  and  South, 
of  Bossuet,  Massillon,  and  Bourdaloue,  clergymen 
though  they  were,  speaking  with  a  religious  and  there- 
fore a  universal  aim,  always  presuppose  a  narrow  au- 
dience of  men   of  nice   culture.      So  they   drew   their 

figures  from  the  schoolmen   from  the  Greek  anthology, 
II— 2 


18  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

from  heathen  classics  and  the  Christian  Fathers.  Their 
illustrations  were  embellishments  to  the  scholar,  but  only 
palpable  darkness  to  the  people.  This  fact  of  writing 
for  a  few  nice  judges  was  of  great  advantage  to  the 
form  of  the  literature  thus  produced,  but  a  disadvan- 
tage to  the  substance  thereof;  a  misfortune  to  the 
scholar  himself,  for  it  belittled  his  sympathies  and  kept 
him  within  a  narrow  range.  Even  the  religious  litera- 
ture of  the  men  just  named  betrays  a  lack  of  freedom, 
a  thinking  for  the  learned  and  not  for  mankind ;  it  has 
breathed  the  air  of  the  cloister,  not  the  sky,  and  is 
tainted  with  academic  and  monastic  diseases.  So  the 
best  of  it  is  over-sentimental,  timid,  and  does  not  point 
to  hardy,  manly  life.  Only  Luther  and  Latimer 
preached  to  the  million  hearts  of  their  contemporaries. 
The  dramatic  literature,  on  the  other  hand,  was  for 
box,  pit,  and  gallery ;  hence  the  width  of  poetry  in  its 
great  masters,  hence  many  of  its  faults  of  form;  and 
hence  the  wild  and  wanton  luxuriance  of  beauty  which 
flowers  out  all  over  the  marvellous  field  of  art  where 
Shakespeare  walked  and  sung.  In  the  pulpit  excel- 
lence was  painted  as  a  priest,  or  monk,  or  nun,  loving 
nothing  but  God ;  on  the  stage  as  a  soldier,  magistrate, 
a  gentleman  or  simpleman,  a  wife  and  mother,  loving 
also  child  and  friend.  Only  the  literature  of  the  player 
and  the  singer  of  ballads  was  for  the  people. 

Here  all  is  changed,  everything  that  is  written  is  for 
the  hands  of  the  million.  In  three  months  Mr.  Ma- 
caulay  has  more  readers  in  America  than  Thucydides 
and  Tacitus  in  twelve  centuries.  Literature,  which 
was  once  the  sacrament  of  the  few,  only  a  shew-bread 
to  the  people,  is  now  the  daily  meat  of  the  multitude. 
The  best  works  get  reprinted  with  great  speed,  the 
highest  poetry  is  soon  in  all  the  newspapers.     Authors 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  19 

know  this  and  write  accordingly.  It  is  only  scientific 
works  which  ask  for  a  special  public.  But  even  science, 
the  proudest  of  the  day,  must  come  down  from  the 
clouds  of  the  academy,  lay  off  its  scholastic  garb,  and 
appear  before  the  eyes  of  the  multitude  in  common 
work-day  clothes.  To  large  and  mainly  unlearned  au- 
diences Agassiz  and  Walker  set  forth  the  highest  teach- 
ings of  physics  and  metaphysics,  not  sparing  difficult 
things,  but  putting  them  in  plain  speech.  Emerson 
takes  his  majestic  intuitions  of  truth  and  justice,  which 
transcend  the  experience  of  the  ages,  and  expounds 
them  to  the  mechanics'  apprentices,  to  the  factory  girls 
at  Lowell  and  Chicopee,  and  to  the  merchants'  clerks 
at  Boston.^  The  more  original  the  speaker,  and  the 
more  profound,  the  better  is  he  relished ;  the  beauty 
of  the  form  is  not  appreciated,  but  the  original  sub- 
stance welcomed  into  new  life  over  the  bench,  the  loom, 
and  even  the  desk  of  the  counting-house.  Of  a  deep 
man  the  people  ask  clearness  also,  thinking  he  does  not 
see  a  thing  wholly  till  he  sees  it  plain. 

From  this  new  relation  of  the  scholar  to  the  people, 
and  the  direct  intimacy  of  his  intercourse  with  men, 
there  comes  a  new  modification  of  his  duty ;  he  is  to 
represent  the  higher  facts  of  human  consciousness  to 
the  people,  and  express  them  in  the  speech  of  the  peo- 
ple ;  to  think  with  the  sage  and  saint,  but  talk  with 
common  men.  It  is  easy  to  discourse  with  scholars, 
and  in  the  old  academic  carriage  drive  through  the 
broad  gateway  of  the  cultivated  class ;  but  here  the  man 
of  genius  is  to  take  the  new  thought  on  his  shoulders 
and  climb  up  the  stiff,  steep  hill,  and  find  his  way  where 
the  wild  asses  quench  their  thirst,  and  the  untamed 
eagle  builds  his  nest.  Hence  our  American  scholar 
must    cultivate    the    dialectics    of    speech    as    well    as 


20  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

thought.  Power  of  speech  without  thought,  a  long 
tongue  in  an  empty  head,  calls  the  people  together 
once  or  twice,  but  soon  its  only  echo  is  from  an  audience 
of  empty  pews.  Thought  without  power  of  speech 
finds  little  welcome  here,  there  are  not  scholars  enough 
to  keep  it  in  countenance.  This  popularity  of  intelli- 
gence gives  a  great  advantage  to  the  man  of  letters, 
who  is  also  a  man.  He  can  occupy  the  whole  space  be- 
tween the  extremes  of  mankind,  can  be  at  once  philoso- 
pher in  his  thought  and  people  in  his  speech,  deliver 
his  word  without  an  interpreter  to  mediate,  and,  like 
King  Mithridates  in  the  story,  talk  with  the  four- 
score nations  of  his  camp  each  in  his  own  tongue. 

Further  still,  there  are  some  peculiarities  of  the 
American  mind  in  which  we  differ  from  our  English 
brothers.  They  are  more  inclined  to  the  matter  of 
fact,  and  appeal  to  history ;  we  to  the  matter  of  ideas, 
and  having  no  national  history  but  of  a  revolution,  may 
appeal  at  once  to  human  nature.  So  while  they  are 
more  historical,  fond  of  names  and  precedents, 
enamored  of  limited  facts  and  coy  towards  abstract 
and  universal  ideas,  with  the  maxim,  "  Stand  by  the 
fixed,"  w^e  are  more  metaphysical,  ideal ;  do  not  think 
a  thing  right  because  actual,  nor  impossible  because  it 
has  never  been.  The  Americans  are  more  metaphys- 
ical than  the  English,  have  departed  more  from  the  old 
sensational  philosophy,  have  welcomed  more  warmly 
the  transcendental  philosophy  of  Germany  and  France. 
The  Declaration  of  Independence,  and  all  the  State 
Constitutions  of  the  North,  begin  with  a  universal  and 
abstract  idea.^  Even  preaching  is  abstract  and  of 
ideas.  Calvinism  bears  metaphysical  fruit  in  New 
England.^ 

This  fact  modifies  stiU  more  the  function  of  the  duty 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  21 

of  the  scholar.  It  determines  him  to  ideas,  to  facts 
for  the  ideas  they  cover,  not  so  much  to  the  past  as  the 
future,  to  the  past  only  that  he  may  guide  the  present 
and  construct  the  future.  He  is  to  take  his  run  in 
the  past  to  acquire  the  momentum  of  histor^^,  his  stand 
in  the  present,  and  leap  into  the  future. 

In  this  manner  the  position  and  duty  of  the  scholar 
in  America  are  modified  and  made  peculiar ;  and  thus  is 
the  mode  determined  for  him  in  which  to  pay  for  his 
education  in  the  manner  most  profitable  to  the  public 
that  has  been  at  the  cost  of  his  training. 

There  is  a  test  by  which  we  measure  the  force  of  a 
horse  or  a  steam-engine ;  the  raising  of  so  many  pounds 
through  so  many  feet  in  a  given  time.  The  test  of 
the  scholar's  power  is  his  ability  to  raise  men  in  their 
deA'elopment. 

In  America  there  are  three  chief  modes  of  acting 
upon  the  public,  omitting  others  of  small  account. 
The  first  is  the  power  which  comes  of  national  Avealth ; 
the  next,  that  of  political  station ;  the  third,  power  of 
spiritual  wealth,  so  to  say,  eminent  wisdom,  justice, 
love,  piety,  the  power  of  sentiments  and  ideas,  and  the 
faculty  of  communicating  them  to  other  men,  and  or- 
ganizing them  therein.  For  the  sake  of  shortness,  let 
each  mode  of  power  be  symbolized  by  its  instrument, 
and  we  have  the  power  of  the  purse,  of  the  office,  and  of 
the  pen. 

The  purse  represents  the  favorite  mode  of  power 
with  us.  This  is  natural  in  our  present  stage  of  na- 
tional existence  and  human  development ;  it  is  likely 
to  continue  for  a  long  time.  In  all  civilized  countries 
which  have  outgrown  the  period  when  the  sword  was 
the  favorite  emblem,  the  purse  represents  the  favorite 
mode  of  power  with  the  mass  of  men ;  but  here  it  is  so 


22  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

with  the  men  of  superior  education.  This  power  is 
not  wholly  personal,  but  extra-personal,  and  the  man's 
centre  of  gravity  lies  out  of  himself,  less  or  more, 
somewhere  between  the  man  and  his  last  cent,  the  dis- 
tance being  greater  or  less  as  the  man  is  less  or  greater 
than  the  estate.  This  is  wielded  chiefly  by  men  of  little 
education,  except  the  practical  culture  which  they  have 
gained  in  the  process  of  accumulation.  Their  riches 
they  get  purposely,  their  training  by  the  way,  and  ac- 
cidentally. It  is  a  singular  misfortune  of  the  country 
that  while  the  majority  of  the  people  are  better  culti- 
vated and  more  enlightened  than  any  other  population 
in  the  world,  the  greater  part  of  the  wealth  of  the  na- 
tion is  owned  by  men  of  less  education  and  consequently 
of  less  enlightenment  than  the  rich  men  of  any  leading 
nation  in  Europe.  In  England  and  France  the  wealth 
of  this  generation  is  chiefly  inherited,  and  has  generally 
fallen  to  men  carefully  trained,  with  minds  disciplined 
by  academic  culture.  Here  wealth  is  new,  and  mainly 
in  the  hands  of  men  who  have  scrambled  for  it  adroitly 
and  with  vigor.  They  have  energy,  vigor,  forecast, 
and  a  certain  generosity,  but  as  a  class  are  narrow,  vul- 
gar, and  conceited.  Nine-tenths  of  the  property  of 
the  people  is  owned  by  one-tenth  of  the  persons ;  and 
these  capitalists  are  men  of  little  culture,  little  moral 
elevation.  This  is  an  accident  of  our  position  unavoid- 
able, perhaps  transient ;  but  it  is  certainly  a  misfor- 
tune that  the  great  estates  of  the  country,  and  the 
social  and  political  power  of  such  wealth,  should  be 
mainly  in  the  hands  of  such  men.  The  melancholy  re- 
sult appears  in  many  a  disastrous  shape,  in  the  tone  of 
the  pulpit,  of  the  press,  and  of  the  national  politics ; 
much  of  the  vulgarity  of  the  nation  is  to  be  ascribed 
to  this  fact,  that  wealth  belongs  to  men  who  know 
nothing  better. 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  23 

The  office  represents  the  next  most  popular  mode  of 
power.      This  also  is  extra-personal,  the  man's  center  of 
gravity  is  out  of  himself,  somewhere  between  him  and 
the  lowest  man  in  the  state ;  the  distance  depending  on 
the  proportion  of  manhood  in  him  and  the  multitude,  if 
the  office  is  much  greater  than  the  man,  then  the  offi- 
cer's center  of  gravity  is  further  removed  from  his  per- 
son.    This  is  sought  for  by  the  ablest  and  best  edu- 
cated men  in  the  land.     But  there  is  a  large  class  of 
educated  persons  who  do  not  aspire  to  it  from  lack  of 
ability,  for  in  our  form  of  government  it  commonly 
takes  some  saliency  of  character  to  win  the  high  places 
of   office    and    use    respectably    this    mode    of    power, 
while  it  demands  no  great  or  lofty  talents  to  accumu- 
late the  largest  fortune  in   America.     It  is  true  the 
whirlwind  of  an  election,  by  the  pressure  of  votes,  may 
now  and  then  take  a  very  heavy  body  up  to  a  great 
height.     Yet  it  does  not  keep  him  from  growing  giddy 
and  ridiculous  while  there,  and  after  a  few  years  lets 
him  fall  again  into  complete  insignificance,  whence  no 
Hercules  can  ever  lift  him  up.     A  corrupt  administra- 
tion may  do  the  same,  but  with  the  same  result.      This 
consideration  keeps  many  educated  men  from  the  po- 
litical arena ;  others  are  unwilling  to  endure  the  un- 
savory   atmosphere    of    politics,    and    take    part    in    a 
scramble  so  vulgar;  but  still  a  large  portion   of  the 
€ducated  and  scholarly  talent  of  the  nation  goes  to  that 
work. 

The  power  of  the  pen  is  wholly  personal.  It  is  the 
:appropriate  instrument  of  the  scholar,  but  it  is  least  of 
all  desired  and  sought  for.  The  rich  man  sends  his 
sons  to  trade,  to  make  too  much  of  inheritance  yet 
more  by  fresh  acquisitions  of  superfluity.  He  does 
not  send  them  to  literature,  art,  or  science.     You  find 


m  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

the  scholar  shpping  in  to  other  modes  of  action,  not 
the  merchants  and  poHticians  migrating  into  this.     He 
longs  to  act  by  the  gravity  of  his  money  or  station, 
not  draw  merely  by  his  head.     The  office  carries  the 
day  before  the  pen ;  the  purse  takes  precedence  of  both. 
Educated  men  do  not  so  much  seek  places  that  demand 
great  powers  as  those  which  bring  much  gold.      Self- 
denial  for  money  or  office  is  common,  for  scholarship 
rare  and  unpopular.      To  act  by  money,  not  m.ind,  is 
the  ill-concealed  ambition  of  many  a  well-bred  man ; 
the  desire  of  this  colors  his  day-dream,  which  is  less  of 
wisdom  and  m.ore  of  wealth,  or  of  political  station ;  so 
a  first-rate  clergyman  desires  to  be  razeed  to  a  second- 
rate  politician,  and  some  "  tall  admiral  "  of  a  politician 
consents  to  be  cut  down  and  turned  into  a  mere  sloop 
of  trade.      The  representative  in   Congress  becomes  a 
president  of  an  insurance  office  or  a  bank  or  the  agent 
of  a  cotton-mill;  the  judge  deserts  his  station  on  the 
bench  and  presides  over  a  railroad;  the  governor  or 
senator  wants  a  place  in  the  post-office ;  the  historian 
longs  for  a  "  chance  in  the  custom-house."     The  pen 
stoops   to  the  office,  that  to  the  purse.      The  scholar 
would   rather   make    a    fortune   by    a   balsam    of   wild 
cherry  than  write  Hamlet  or  Paradise  Lost  for  noth- 
ing ;  rather  than  help  mankind  by  making  a  Paradise 
Regained.      The    well-endowed    minister    thinks    how 
much  more  money  he  might  have  made  had  he  specu- 
lated in  stocks  and  not  theology,  and  mourns  that  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  does  not  pay  in  this  present  life 
fourfold.      The  professor  of  Greek  is  sorry  he  was  not 
a  surveyor  and  superintendent  of  a  railroad,  he  should 
have  so  much  more  money ;  that  is  what  he  has  learned 
from  Plato  and  Diogenes.     We  estimate  the  skill  of 
an  artist  like  that  of  a  pedler,  not  by  the  pictures  he 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  25 

has  made,  but  bj  the  money.  There  Is  a  mercantile 
way  of  determining  hterary  merit,  not  by  the  author's 
books,  but  by  his  balance  with  the  publisher.  No 
church  is  yet  called  after  a  man  who  is  merely  rich, 
something  in  the  New  Testament  might  hinder  that ; 
but  the  ministers  estimate  their  brother  minister  by  the 
greatness  of  his  position,  not  of  his  character ;  not  by 
his  piety  and  goodness,  not  even  by  his  reason  and 
understanding,  the  culture  he  has  attained  thereby,  and 
the  use  he  makes  thereof,  but  by  the  wealth  of  his 
church  and  the  largeness  of  his  salary ;  so  that  he  is 
not  thought  the  fortunate  and  great  minister  who  has 
a  large  outgo  of  spiritual  riches,  rebukes  the  sins  of 
the  nation  and  turns  manj^  to  righteousness,  but  he 
who  has  a  large  material  income,  ministers,  though 
poorly,  to  rich  men,  and  is  richly  paid  for  that  func- 
tion. The  well-paid  clergj^men  of  a  city  tell  the  pro- 
fessor of  theology  that  he  must  teach  "  such  doctrines 
as  the  merchants  approve  "  or  they  will  not  give  money 
to  the  college,  and  he,  it,  and  the  "  cause  of  the  Lord,*' 
will  all  come  to  the  ground  at  the  same  time  and  in 
kindred  confusion.  So  blind  money  would  put  out  the 
heavenly  eyes  of  science,  and  lead  her  also  to  his  own 
ditch.  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  there  are  men 
in  the  midst  of  us, —  rich,  respectable,  and  highly 
honored  with  social  rank  and  political  power,  who  prac- 
tically and  in  strict  conformity  with  their  theory  honor 
Judas,  who  made  money  by  his  treachery,  far  more 
than  Jesus  who  laid  down  his  life  for  men  whose  money 
is  deemed  better  than  manhood.  It  must  indeed  be  so. 
Any  outrage  that  is  profitable  to  the  controlling  por- 
tion of  society  is  sure  to  be  welcome  to  the  leaders  of 
the  state,  and  is  soon  pronounced  divine  by  the  leaders 
of  the  church. 


26  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

It  would  seem  as  if  the  pen  ought  to  represent  the 
favorite  mode  of  power  at  a  college ;  but  even  there  the 
waters  of  Pactolus  are  thought  fairer  than  the  Casta- 
lian,  Heliconian  spring,  or  "  Siloa's  brook  that  flowed 
fast  by  the  oracle  of  God."  The  college  is  named 
after  the  men  of  wealth,  not  genius.  How  few  pro- 
fessorships in  America  bear  the  names  of  men  of  sci- 
ence or  letters,  and  not  of  mere  rich  men !  Which  is 
thought  the  greatest  benefactor  of  a  college,  he  who 
endows  it  with  money  or  with  mind?  Even  there  it  is 
the  purse,  not  the  pen,  that  is  the  symbol  of  honor, 
and  the  University  is  "  up  for  California,"  ^  not  Par- 
nassus. 

Even  in  politics  the  purse  turns  the  scale.  Let  a 
party  wrestle  never  so  hard,  it  cannot  throw  the  dollar. 
Money  controls  and  commands  talent,  not  talent  money. 
The  successful  shopkeeper  frowns  on  and  browbeats  the 
accomplished  politician,  who  has  too  much  justice  for 
the  wharf  and  the  board  of  brokers ;  he  notices  that 
the  rich  men  avert  their  eye,  or  keep  their  beaver  down, 
trembles  and  is  sad,  fearing  that  his  daughter  will 
never  find  a  fitting  spouse.  The  purse  buys  up  able 
men  of  superior  education,  corrupts  and  keeps  them  as 
its  retained  attorneys,  in  congress  or  the  church,  not 
as  counsel  but  advocate,  bribed  to  make  the  worse  ap- 
pear the  better  reason,  and  so  help  money  to  control 
the  state  and  wield  its  power  against  the  interest  of 
mankind.  This  is  perfectly  well  known ;  but  no  politi- 
cian or  minister,  bribed  to  silence  or  to  speech,  ever 
loses  his  respectability  because  he  is  bought  by  re- 
spectable men, —  if  he  get  his  pay.  In  all  countries 
but  this  the  office  is  before  the  purse ;  here  the  state  is 
chiefly  an  accessory  of  the  exchange,  and  our  politics 
only  mercantile.     This  appears  sometimes  against  our 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  27 

will,  in  symbols  not  meant  to  tell  the  tale.  Thus  in 
the  House  of  Representatives  in  Massachusetts,  a  cod- 
fish stares  the  speaker  in  the  face  ^ —  not  a  very  intel- 
lectual looking  fish.  When  it  was  put  there  it  was  a 
symbol  of  the  riches  of  the  state,  and  so  of  the  Com- 
monwealth. With  singular  and  unconscious  satire  it 
tells  the  legislature  to  have  an  eye  "  to  the  main 
chance,"  and,  but  for  its  fidelity  to  its  highest  instincts 
and  its  obstinate  silence,  might  be  a  symbol  good 
enough  for  the  place. 

Now,  after  the  office  and  the  purse  have  taken  their 
votaries  from  the  educated  class,  the  ablest  men  are 
certainly  not  left  behind.  Three  roads  open  before 
our  young  Hercules  as  he  leaves  college,  having  re- 
spectively as  finger-post  the  pen,  the  office,  and  the 
purse.  Few  follow  the  road  of  letters.  This  need  not 
be  much  complained  of;  nay,  it  might  be  rejoiced  in,  if 
the  purse  and  the  office  in  their  modes  of  power  did 
represent  the  higher  consciousness  of  mankind.  But 
no  one  contends  it  is  so. 

Still  there  are  men  who  devote  themselves  to  some 
literary  calHngs  which  have  no  connection  with  politi- 
cal office,  and  which  are  not  pursued  for  the  sake  of 
great  wealth.  Such  men  produce  the  greater  part  of 
the  permanent  literature  of  the  country.  They  are 
eminently  scholars,  permanent  scholars  who  act  by  their 
scholar-craft,  not  by  the  state-craft  of  the  politician, 
or  the  purse-craft  of  the  capitalist.  How  are  these 
men  paying  their  debt  and  performing  their  function? 
The  answer  must  be  found  in  the  science  and  the  litera- 
ture of  the  land. 

American  science  is  something  of  which  we  may  well 
be  proud.  Mr.  Liebig,  in  Germany,  has  found  it  neces- 
sary to  defend  himself  from  the  charge  of  following 


28  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

science  for  the  loaA^es  and  fishes  thereof;  and  he  de- 
clares that  he  espoused  chemistry  not  for  her  wealthy 
dower,  not  even  for  the  services  her  possible  children 
might  render  to  mankind,  but  solely  for  her  own  sweet 
sake.  Amongst  the  English  race,  on  both  sides  of  the 
ocean,  science  is  loved  rather  for  the  fruit  than  the 
blossom ;  its  service  to  the  body  is  thought  of  more 
value  than  its  service  to  the  mind.  A  man's  respecta- 
bility would  be  in  danger  in  Am.erica,  if  he  loved  any 
science  better  than  the  money  or  fame  it  might  bring. 
It  is  characteristic  of  us  that  a  scholar  should  write 
for  reputation  and  gold.  Here,  as  elsewhere,  the  un- 
profitable parts  of  science  fall  to  the  lot  of  poor  men. 
When  the  rich  man's  son  has  the  natural  calling  that 
way  public  opinion  would  dissuade  him  from  the  study 
of  nature.  The  greatest  scientific  attainments  do  not 
give  a  man  so  high  social  consideration  as  a  political 
office  or  a  successful  speculation,  unless  it  be  the  science 
which  makes  money.  Scientific  schools  we  call  after 
merely  rich  men,  not  men  of  wealthy  minds.  It  is  true 
we  name  streets  and  squares,  towns  and  counties,  after 
Franklin,  but  it  is  because  he  keeps  the  lightning  from 
factories,  churches,  and  barns ;  tells  us  not  "  to  give 
too  much  for  the  whistle,"  and  teaches  "  the  way  to 
make  money  plenty  in  every  man's  pocket."  We 
should  not  name  them  after  Cuvier  and  Laplace. 

Notwithstanding  this,  the  scientific  scholars  of 
America,  both  the  home-born  and  the  adopted  sons, 
have  manfully  paid  for  their  culture,  and  done  honor 
to  the  land.  This  is  true  of  men  in  all  departments  of 
science, —  from  that  which  searches  the  deeps  of  the 
sky  to  that  which  explores  the  shallows  of  the  sea.  In- 
dividuals, states,  and  the  nation,  have  all  done  them- 
selves honor  by  the  scientific  researches  and  discoveries 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  29 

that  have  been  made.  The  outlay  of  money  and  of 
genius  for  things  y>'hich  only  pay  the  head  and  not  the 
mouth  of  man  is  beautiful  and  a  little  surprising  in 
such  a  utilitarian  land  as  this.  Time  would  fail  me 
to  attend  to  particular  cases. 

Look  at  the  literature  of  America.  Reserving  the 
exceptional  portion  thereof  to  be  examined  in  a  mo- 
ment, let  us  study  the  instantial  portion  of  it,  Ameri- 
can literature  as  a  whole.  This  may  be  distributed 
into  two  main  divisions :  First  comes  the  permanent 
literature,  consisting  of  books  not  designed  merely 
for  a  single  and  transient  occasion,  but  elaborately 
wrought  for  a  general  purpose.  This  is  literature 
proper.  Next  follows  the  transient  literature,  which 
is  brought  out  for  a  particular  occasion,  and  designed 
to  serve  a  special  purpose.     Let  us  look  at  each. 

The  permanent  literature  of  America  is  poor  and 
meager;  it  does  not  bear  the  mark  of  manly  hands,  of 
original,  creative  minds.  IMost  of  it  is  rather  milk  for 
babes  than  meat  for  men,  though  much  of  it  is  neither 
fresh  meat  nor  new  milk,  but  the  old  dish  often  served 
up  before.  In  respect  to  its  forai,  this  portion  of  our 
literature  is  an  imitation.  That  is  natural  enough, 
considering  the  youth  of  the  country.  Every  nation, 
like  every  man,  even  one  born  to  genius,  begins  by 
imitation.  Raphael,  with  servile  pencil,  followed  his 
masters  in  his  youth ;  but  at  length  his  artistic  eye  at- 
tracted new-born  angels  from  the  calm  stillness  of  their 
upper  heaven,  and  with  liberal,  free  hand,  with  mas- 
terly and  original  touch,  the  painter  of  the  newness 
amazed  the  world. 

The  early  Christian  literature  is  an  imitation  of  the 
Hebrew  or  the  classic  type ;  even  after  centuries  had 
passed  by,  Sidonius,  though  a  bishop  of  the  church. 


30  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

and  destined  to  become  a  saint,  uses  the  old  heathen 
imagery,  referring  to  Triptolemus  as  a  model  for 
Christian  work,  and  talks  about  Triton  and  Galatea  to 
the  Christian  Queen  of  the  Goths.  Saint  Ambrose  is  a 
notorious  imitator  of  pagan  Cicero.  The  Christians 
were  all  anointed  with  Jewish  nard ;  and  the  sour  grapes 
they  ate  in  sacrament  have  set  on  edge  their  children's 
teeth  till  now.  The  modern  nations  of  Europe  be- 
gan their  literature  by  the  driest  copies  of  Livy  and 
Virgil.  The  Germans  have  the  most  original  litera- 
ture of  the  last  hundred  years.  But  till  the  middle  of 
the  past  century  their  permanent  literature  was  chiefly 
in  Latin  and  French,  with  as  little  originality  as  our 
own.  The  real  poetic  life  of  the  nation  found  vent  in 
other  forms.  It  is  natural,  therefore,  and  according 
to  the  course  of  history,  that  we  should  begin  in  this 
way.  The  best  political  institutions  of  England  are 
cherished  here,  so  her  best  literature ;  and  it  is  not  sur- 
prising that  we  are  content  with  this  rich  inheritance 
of  artistic  toil.  In  many  things  we  are  independent, 
but  in  much  that  relates  to  the  higher  works  of  man 
we  are  still  colonies  of  England.  This  appears  not 
only  in  the  vulgar  fondness  for  English  fashions,  man- 
ners, and  the  like,  which  is  chiefly  an  affectation,  but 
in  the  servile  style  with  which  we  copy  the  great  or 
little  models  of  English  literature.  Sometimes  this  is 
done  consciously,  oftener  without  knowing  it. 

But  the  substance  of  our  permanent  literature  is  as 
faulty  as  its  form.  It  does  not  bear  marks  of  a  new, 
free,  vigorous  mind  at  work,  looking  at  things  from  the 
American  point  of  view,  and,  though  it  put  its  thought 
in  antique  forms,  yet  thinking  originally  and  for  itself. 
It  represents  the  average  thought  of  respectable  men, 
directed  to  some  particular  subject,  and  their  average 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  31 

morality.  It  represents  nothing  more;  how  could  it, 
while  the  ablest  men  have  gone  off  to  politics  or  trade? 
It  is  such  literature  as  almost  anybody  might  get  up 
if  you  would  give  him  a  httle  time  to  make  the  pre- 
liminary studies.  There  is  little  In  it  that  is  national, 
little  individual  and  of  the  writer's  own  mind;  it  is 
ground  out  in  the  public  literary  mill.  It  has  no  noble 
sentiments,  no  great  ideas ;  nothing  which  makes  you 
burn,  nothing  which  makes  you  much  worse  or  much 
better.  You  may  feed  on  this  literature  all  your  days, 
and  whatsoever  you  may  gain  in  girth,  you  shall  not 
take  in  thought  enough  to  add  half  an  inch  to  your 
stature. 

Out  of  every  hundred  American  literary  works 
printed  since  the  century  began,  about  eighty  will  be 
of  his  character.  Compare  the  four  most  conspicu- 
ous periodicals  of  America  with  the  four  great 
Quarterlies  of  England,  and  you  see  how  inferior  our 
literature  is  to  theirs  —  in  all  things,  in  form  and  in 
substance  too.^*^  The  European  has  the  freedom  of  a 
well-bred  man  —  it  appears  in  the  movement  of  his 
thought,  his  use  of  words,  in  the  easy  grace  of  his  sen- 
tences, and  the  general  manner  of  his  work ;  the  Amer- 
ican has  the  stiffness  and  limitations  of  a  big,  raw 
boy,  in  the  presence  of  his  schoolmaster.  They  are 
proud  of  being  English,  and  so  have  a  certain  lofty 
nationality  which  appears  in  their  thought  and  the 
form  thereof,  even  in  the  freedom  to  use  and  invent 
new  words.  Our  authors  of  this  class  seem  ashamed 
that  they  are  Americans,  and  accordingly  are  timid, 
ungraceful,  and  weak.  They  dare  not  be  original 
when  they  could.  Hence  this  sort  of  literature  is  dull. 
A  man  of  the  average  mind  and  conscience,  heart  and 
soul,  studies  a  particular  sub j  ect  a  short  time  —  for 


S2  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

this  is  the  land  of  brief  processes  —  and  writes  a  book 
thereof,  or  thereon ;  a  critic  of  the  same  average  makes 
his  special  study  of  the  book,  not  its  theme,  "  reviews  " 
the  work ;  is  as  ready  and  able  to  pass  j  udgment  on 
Bowditch's  translation  of  Laplace  in  ten  days  after 
its  appearance  as  ten  years,  and  distributes  praise  and 
blame,  not  according  to  the  author's  knowledge,  but 
the  critic's  ignorant  caprice ;  and  then  average  men 
read  the  book  and  the  critique  with  no  immoderate  joy 
or  unmeasured  grief.  They  learn  some  new  facts,  no 
new  ideas,  and  get  no  lofty  impulse.  The  book  was 
written  without  inspiration,  without  philosophy,  and 
is  read  with  small  profit.  Yet  it  is  curious  to  observe 
the  praise  which  such  men  receive,  how  soon  they  are 
raised  to  the  House  of  Lords  in  English  literature.  I 
have  known  three  American  Sir  Walter  Scotts,  half  a 
dozen  Addisons,  one  or  two  Macaulays,  a  historian  that 
was  Hume  and  Gibbon  both  in  one,  several  Burnses, 
and  Miltons  by  the  quantit}^,  not  "  mute,"  the  more  is 
the  pity,  but  "  inglorious  "  enough ;  nay,  even  vain- 
glorious at  the  praise  which  some  penny-a-liner  or 
dollar-a-pager  foolishly  gave  their  cheap  extemporary 
stuff.  In  sacred  literature  it  is  the  same ;  in  a  single 
winter  at  Boston  we  had  two  American  Saint  Johns  in 
full  blast  for  several  months.  Though  no  Felix  trem- 
bles, there  are  now  extant  in  the  United  States  not  less 
than  six  American  Saint  Pauls,  in  no  manner  of  peril 
except  the  most  dangerous,  of  idle  praise. 

A  living,  natural,  and  full-grown  literature  contains 
two  elements.  One  is  of  mankind  in  general ;  that  is 
human  and  universal.  The  other  is  of  the  tribe  in 
special,  and  of  the  writer  in  particular.  This  is  na- 
tional and  even  personal ;  you  see  the  idiosyncrasy  of 
the  nation  and  the  individual  author  in  the  work.     The 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  33 

universal  human  substance  accepts  the  author's  form, 
and  the  pubhc  wine  of  mankind  runs  into  the  private 
bottle  of  the  author.  Thus  the  Hebrew  literature  of 
the  Old  Testament  is  fresh  and  original  in  substance 
and  in  form ;  the  two  elements  are  plain  enough,  the 
universal  and  the  particular.  The  staple  of  the  Psalms 
of  David  is  human,  of  mankind,  it  is  trust  in  God ;  but 
the  twist,  the  die,  the  texture,  the  pattern,  all  that  is 
Hebrew  —  of  the  tribe,  and  personal  —  of  David, 
shepherd,  warrior,  poet,  king.  You  see  the  pastoral 
hill-sides  of  Judaea  in  his  holy  hymns ;  nay,  "  Uriah's 
beauteous  wife  "  now  and  then  sidles  into  his  sweetest 
psalm.  The  Old  Testament  books  smell  of  Palestine, 
of  its  air  and  its  soil.  The  Rose  of  Sharon  has  Hebrew 
earth  about  its  roots.  The  geography  of  the  Holy 
Land,  its  fauna  and  its  flora  both,  even  its  wind  and 
sky,  its  early  and  its  latter  rain,  all  appear  in  the 
literature  of  historian  and  bard.  It  is  so  in  the  Ihad. 
You  see  how  the  sea  looked  from  Homer's  point  of  view, 
and  know  how  he  felt  the  west  wind,  cold  and  raw. 
The  human  element  has  an  Ionian  form  and  a  Homeric 
hue.  The  ballads  of  the  people  in  Scotland  and  Eng- 
land are  national  in  the  same  way ;  the  staple  of  hu- 
man life  is  wrought  into  the  Scottish  form.  Before 
the  Germans  had  any  permanent  national  literature  of 
this  character  their  fertile  mind  found  vent  in  legends, 
popular  stories,  now  the  admiration  of  the  learned. 
These  had  at  home  the  German  dress,  but  as  the  stories 
traveled  into  other  lands,  they  kept  their  human  flesh 
and  blood,  but  took  a  diff^erent  garb,  and  acquired  a 
diff'erent  complexion  from  every  country  which  they 
visited;  and,  like  the  streams  of  their  native  Swabia, 
took  the  color  of  the  soil  they  traveled  through. 

The  permanent  and  instantial  literature   of  Amer- 
II— 3 


34  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ica  is  not  national  in  this  sense.  It  has  little  that  is 
American ;  it  might  as  well  be  written  by  some  book- 
wright  in  Leipsic  or  London,  and  then  imported.  The 
individuality  of  the  nation  is  not  there,  except  in  the 
cheap,  gaudy  binding  of  the  work.  The  nationality 
of  America  is  only  stamped  on  the  lids,  and  vulgarly 
blazoned  on  the  back. 

Is  the  book  a  history  ?  —  it  is  written  with  no  such 
freedom  as  you  should  expect  of  a  writer  looking  at 
the  breadth  of  the  world  from  the  lofty  stand-point  of 
America.  There  is  no  new  philosophy  of  history  in  it. 
You  would  not  think  it  was  written  in  a  democracy  that 
keeps  the  peace  without  armies  or  a  national  gaol. 
Mr.  Macaulay  writes  the  history  of  England  as  none 
but  a  North  Briton  could  do.  Astonishingly  well-read, 
equipped  with  literary  skill  at  least  equal  to  the  mas- 
terly art  of  Voltaire,  mapping  out  his  subject  like  an 
engineer,  and  adorning  it  like  a  painter,  you  yet  see, 
all  along,  that  the  author  is  a  Scotchman  and  a  Whig. 
Nobody  else  could  have  written  so.  It  is  of  Mr.  Ma- 
caulay. But  our  American  writer  thinks  about  mat- 
ters just  as  everybody  else  does;  that  is,  he  does  not 
think  at  all,  but  only  writes  what  he  reads,  and  then, 
like  the  good-natured  bear  in  the  nursery  story, 
"  thinks  he  has  been  thinking."  It  is  no  such  thing, 
he  has  been  writing  the  common  opinion  of  common 
men,  to  get  the  applause  of  men  as  common  as  him- 
self. 

Is  the  book  of  poetry  ?  —  the  substance  is  chiefly  old, 
the  form  old,  the  allusions  are  old.  It  is  poetry  of 
society,  not  of  nature.  You  meet  in  it  the  same  ever- 
lasting mythology,  the  same  geography,  botany,  zool- 
ogy, the  same  symbols ;  a  new  figure  of  speech  sug- 
gested  b}'^    the   sight    of   nature,   not   the   reading   of 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  35 

books,  you  could  no  more  find  than  a  fresh  shad  in  the 
Dead  Sea.  You  take  at  random  eiglit  or  ten  "  Amer- 
ican poets  "  of  tills  stamp,  3'ou  see  at  once  what  was 
the  favorite  author  with  each  new  bard;  you  often  see 
what  particular  work  of  Shelley,  or  Tennyson,  or  Mil- 
ton, or  George  Herbert,  or,  if  the  man  has  culture 
enough,  of  Goethe  or  Uhland,  Jean  Paul  or  Schiller, 
suggested  the  "  American  original."  His  inspiration 
comes  from  literature,  not  from  the  great  universe  of 
nature  or  of  human  life.  You  see  that  this  writer  has 
read  Percy's  Reliques,  and  the  German  Wunderhorn ; 
but  you  would  not  know  that  he  wrote  in  a  republic  — 
in  a  land  full  of  new  life,  with  great  rivers  and  tall 
mountains,  with  maple  and  oak  trees  that  turn  red  in 
the  autumn  ;  amongst  a  people  who  hold  town-meetings, 
have  free  schools  for  everybody,  read  newspapers 
voraciously,  who  have  lightning  rods  on  their  steeples, 
ride  in  railroads,  are  daguerreotyped  by  the  sun,  and 
who  talk  by  lightning  from  Halifax  to  New  Orleans ; 
who  listen  to  the  whippoorwill  and  the  bobolink,  who 
believe  in  slavery  and  the  Declaration  of  Independ- 
ence, in  the  devil  and  the  five  points  of  Calvinism. 
You  would  not  know  where  our  poet  lived,  or  that  he 
lived  anywhere.  Reading  the  Iliad  you  doubt  that 
Homer  was  born  blind ;  but  our  bard  seems  to  have 
been  deaf  also,  and  for  expressing  what  was  national  in 
his  time  might  likewise  have  been  dumb. 

Is  it  a  volume  of  sermons  ?  —  they  might  have  been 
written  at  Edinburgh,  IMadrid,  or  Constantinople,  as 
well  as  in  New  England ;  as  well  preached  to  the 
"  Homo  Sapiens  "  of  Linnaeus  or  the  man  in  the  moon, 
as  to  the  special  audience  that  heard  or  heard  them 
not,  but  only  paid  for  having  the  things  preached. 
There  is  nothing  individual  about  them ;  the   author 


36  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

seems  as  impersonal  as  Spinoza's  conception  of  God. 
The  sermons  are  like  an  almanac  calculated  for  the 
meridian  of  no  place  in  particular,  for  no  time  in  spe- 
cial. There  is  no  allusion  to  anything  American. 
The  author  never  mentions  a  river  this  side  of  the 
Jordan ;  knows  no  mountain  but  Lebanon,  Zion,  and 
Carmel,  and  would  think  it  profane  to  talk  of  the 
Alleghanies  and  the  Mississippi,  of  Monadnoc  and  the 
Androscoggin.  He  mentions  Babylon  and  Jerusalem, 
not  New  York  and  Baltimore ;  you  would  never  dream 
that  he  lived  in  a  church  without  a  bishop,  and  a  state 
without  a  king,  in  a  democratic  nation  that  held  three 
million  slaves,  with  ministers  chosen  by  the  people. 
He  is  surrounded,  clouded  over,  and  hid  by  the  tradi- 
tions of  the  "  ages  of  faith  "  behind  him.  He  never 
thanks  God  for  the  dew  and  snow,  only  for  "  the  early 
and  the  latter  rain  "  of  a  classic  sacred  land ;  a  temper- 
ance man,  he  blesses  God  for  the  wine  because  the  great 
Psalmist  did  so  thousands  of  years  ago.  He  speaks 
of  the  olive  and  the  fig-tree  which  he  never  saw,  not 
of  the  apple-tree  and  the  peach  before  his  eyes  all  day 
long,  their  fruit  the  joy  of  his  children's  heart.  If 
you  guessed  at  his  time  and  place,  you  would  think  he 
lived,  not  under  General  Taylor,  but  under  King 
Ahab,  or  Jeroboam ;  that  his  audience  rode  on  camels 
or  in  chariots,  not  in  steam-cars ;  that  they  fought  with 
bows  and  arrows  against  the  children  of  Moab ;  that 
their  favorite  sin  was  the  worship  of  some  graven 
image,  and  that  they  made  their  children  pass  through 
the  fire  unto  Moloch,  not  through  the  counting-house 
unto  Mammon.  You  would  not  know  whether  the 
preacher  was  married  or  a  bachelor,  rich  or  poor,  saint 
or  sinner ;  you  would  probably  conclude  he  was  not 
much  of  a  saint,  nor  even  much  of  a  sinner. 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  S7 

The  authors  of  this  portion  of  our  literature  seem 
ashamed  of  America.  One  day  she  will  take  her  re- 
venge. They  are  the  parasites  of  letters,  and  live  on 
what  other  men  have  made  classic.  They  would  study 
the  Holy  Land,  Greece,  Etruria,  Egypt,  Nineveh, 
spots  made  famous  by  great  and  holy  men,  and  let 
the  native  races  of  America  fade  out,  taking  no  pains 
to  study  the  monuments  which  so  swiftly  pass  away 
from  our  own  continent.  It  is  curious  that  most  of  the 
accounts  of  the  Indians  of  North  America  come  from 
men  not  natives  here,  from  French  and  Germans ;  and 
characteristic  that  we  should  send  an  expedition  to  the 
Dead  Sea,^^  while  wide  tracts  of  this  continent  lie  all 
untouched  by  the  white  man's  foot ;  and,  also,  that 
while  we  make  such  generous  and  noble  efforts  to 
christianize  and  bless  the  red,  yellow,  and  black  heath- 
ens at  the  world's  end,  we  should  leave  the  American 
Indian  and  Negro  to  die  in  savage  darkness,  the  South 
making  it  penal  to  teach  a  black  man  to  write  or 
read. 

Yet,  there  is  one  portion  of  our  permanent  literature, 
if  literature  it  may  be  called,  which  is  wholly  in- 
digenous and  original.  The  lives  of  the  early  martyrs 
and  confessors  are  purely  Christian,  so  are  the  legends 
of  saints  and  other  pious  men;  there  was  nothing  like 
this  in  the  Hebrew  or  heathen  literature,  cause  and 
occasion  were  alike  wanting  for  it.  So  we  have  one 
series  of  literary  productions  that  could  be  written 
by  none  but  Americans,  and  only  here ;  I  mean  the 
Lives  of  Fugitive  Slaves.  ^^  But  as  these  are  not  the 
work  of  the  men  of  superior  culture  they  hardly 
help  to  pay  the  scholar's  debt.  Yet  all  the  origi- 
nal romance  of  Americans  is  in  them,  not  in  the  white 
man's  novel. 


S8  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Next  is  the  transient  literature,  composed  chiefly  of 
speeches,  orations,  state  papers,  poHtical  and  other 
occasional  pamphlets,  business  reports,  articles  in  the 
journals,  and  other  productions  designed  to  serve  some 
present  purpose.  These  are  commonly  the  work  of 
educated  men,  though  not  of  such  as  make  literature 
a  profession.  Taking  this  department  as  a  whole,  it 
differs  much  from  the  permanent  literature ;  here  is 
freshness  of  thought  and  newness  of  form.  If  Amer- 
ican books  are  mainly  an  imitation  of  old  models,  it 
would  be  difficult  to  find  the  prototype  of  some  Amer- 
ican speeches.  They  "  would  have  made  Quintilian 
stare  and  gasp."  Take  the  state  papers  of  the  Ameri- 
can government  during  the  administration  of  Mr,  Polk, 
the  speeches  made  in  Congress  at  the  same  time,  the 
state  papers  of  the  several  states  —  you  have  a  much 
better  and  more  favorable  idea  of  the  vigor  and  orig- 
inality of  the  American  mind  than  you  would  get  from 
all  the  bound  books  printed  in  that  period.  The  diplo- 
matic writings  of  American  politicians  compare  favor- 
ably with  those  of  any  nation  in  the  world.  In  elo- 
quence no  modern  nation  is  before  us,  perhaps  none 
is  our  equal.  Here  you  see  the  inborn  strength  and 
manly  vigor  of  the  American  mind.  You  meet  the 
same  spirit  which  fells  the  forest,  girdles  the  land  with 
railroads,  annexes  Texas,  and  covets  Cuba,  Nicaragua, 
all  the  world. ^^  You  see  that  the  authors  of  this  litera- 
ture are  workers  also.  Others  have  read  of  wild  beasts  ; 
here  are  the  men  that  have  seen  the  wolf. 

A  portion  of  this  literature  represents  the  past,  and 
has  the  vices  already  named.  It  comes  from  human 
history  and  not  human  nature ;  as  you  read  it,  you 
think  of  the  inertia  and  the  cowardliness  of  mankind ; 
nothing   is    progressive,    nothing   noble,    generous,   or 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  39 

just,  only  respectable.  The  past  is  preferred  before 
the  present ;  money  is  put  before  men,  a  vested  right 
before  a  natural  right.  Such  literature  appears  in  all 
countries.  The  ally  of  despotism,  and  the  foe  of  man- 
kind, it  is  yet  a  legitimate  exponent  of  a  large  class 
of  men.  The  leading  journals  of  America,  political 
and  commercial,  or  literary,  are  poor  and  feeble ;  our 
reviews  of  books  afford  matter  for  grave  consideration. 
You  would  often  suppose  them  written  by  the  same 
hand  which  manufactures  the  advertisements  of  the 
grand  caravan,  or  some  patent  medicine ;  or,  when  un- 
favorable, by  some  of  the  men  who  write  defamatory 
articles  on  the  eve  of  an  election. 

But  a  large  part  of  this  transient  literature  is  very 
different  in  its  character.  Its  authors  have  broken 
with  the  traditions  of  the  past ;  they  have  new  ideas, 
and  plans  for  putting  them  in  execution ;  they  are  full 
of  hope,  are  national  to  the  extreme,  bragging  and 
defiant.  They  put  the  majority  before  institutions, 
the  rights  of  the  majority  before  the  privilege  of  a 
few ;  they  represent  the  onward  tendency  and  material 
prophecy  of  the  nation.  The  new  activity  of  the 
American  mind  here  expresses  its  purpose  and  its 
prayer.  Here  is  strength,  hope,  confidence,  even  au- 
dacity ;  all  is  American.  But  the  great  idea  of  the 
absolute  right  does  not  appear,  all  is  more  national 
than  human ;  and  in  what  concerns  the  nation,  it  is 
not  justice,  the  point  where  all  interests  are  balanced, 
and  the  welfare  of  each  harmonizes  with  that  of  all, 
which  is  sought ;  but  the  "  greatest  good  of  the  great- 
est number,"  that  is,  only  a  privilege  had  at  the  cost 
of  the  smaller  number.  Here  is  little  respect  for  uni- 
versal humanity ;  little  for  the  eternal  laws  of  God, 
which  override  all  the  traditions  and  contrivances  of 


40  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

men ;  more  reverence  for  a  statute  or  constitution, 
which  is  indeed  the  fundamental  law  of  the  political 
state,  but  is  often  only  an  attempt  to  compromise  be- 
tween the  fleeting  passions  of  the  day  and  the  immut- 
able morality  of  God. 

Amid  all  the  public  documents  of  the  nation  and  the 
several  states,  in  the  speeches  and  writings  of  favorite 
men,  who  represent  and  so  control  the  public  mind,  for 
fifty  years  there  is  little  that  "  stirs  the  feelings  in- 
finite "  within  you ;  much  to  make  us  more  American, 
not  more  manly.  There  is  more  head  than  heart ;  na- 
tive intellect  enough,  culture  that  is  competent,  but 
little  conscience  or  real  religion.  How  many  news- 
papers, how  many  politicians  in  the  land  go  at  all  be- 
yond the  Whig  idea  of  protecting  the  property  now 
accumulated,  or  the  Democratic  idea  of  insuring  the 
greatest  material  good  of  the  greatest  number?  Where 
are  we  to  look  for  the  representative  of  justice,  of  the 
unalienable  rights  of  all  the  people  and  all  the  nations.? 
In  the  triple  host  of  article-makers,  speech-makers,  lay 
and  clerical,  and  makers  of  laws,  you  find  but  few  who 
can  be  trusted  to  stand  up  for  the  unalienable  rights 
of  men ;  who  will  never  write,  speak,  nor  vote  in  the 
interests  of  a  party,  but  always  in  the  interest  of  man- 
kind, and  will  represent  the  justice  of  God  in  the 
forum  of  the  world. 

This  literature,  like  the  other,  fails  of  the  high  end 
of  writing  and  of  speech;  with  more  vigor,  more  free- 
dom, more  breadth  of  vision,  and  an  intense  nationality, 
the  authors  thereof  are  just  as  far  from  representing 
the  higher  consciousness  of  mankind,  just  as  vulgar  as 
the  tame  and  well-licked  writers  of  the  permanent  liter- 
ature. Here  are  the  men  who  have  cut  their  own  way 
through  the  woods,  men  with  more  than  the  average  in- 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  41 

telligence,  daring,  and  strength ;  but  with  less  than  the 
average  justice  Avhich  is  honesty  in  the  abstract,  less 
than  the  average  honesty  which  is  justice  concentrated 
upon  small  particulars. 

Examine  both  these  portions  of  American  literature, 
the  permanent  and  the  fleeting  —  you  see  their  edu- 
cated authors  are  no  higher  than  the  rest  of  men. 
They  are  the  slaves  of  public  opinion  as  much  as  the 
gossip  in  her  little  village.  It  may  not  be  the  public 
opinion  of  a  coterie  of  crones,  but  of  a  great  party ; 
that  makes  little  odds,  they  are  worshippers  of  the  same 
rank,  idolaters  of  the  same  wealth ;  the  gossiping 
granny  shows  her  littleness  the  size  of  life,  while  their 
deformity  is  magnified  by  the  solar  microscope  of  high 
office.  Many  a  popular  man  exhibits  his  pigmy  soul 
to  the  multitude  of  a  whole  continent,  idly  mistaking 
it  for  greatness.  They  are  swayed  by  vulgar  pas- 
sions, seek  vulgar  ends,  address  vulgar  motives,  use 
vulgar  means ;  they  may  command  by  their  strength, 
they  cannot  refine  by  their  beauty  or  instruct  by  their 
guidance,  and  still  less  inspire  by  any  eminence  of  man- 
hood which  they  were  born  to  or  have  won.  They 
build  on  the  surface-sand  for  to-day,  not  on  the  rock 
of  ages  for  ever.  With  so  little  conscience,  they  heed 
not  the  solemn  voice  of  history,  and  respect  no  more 
the  prophetic  instincts  of  mankind. 

To  most  men,  the  approbation  of  their  fellows  is 
one  of  the  most  desirable  things.  This  approbation 
appears  in  the  various  forms  of  admiration,  respect,  es- 
teem, confidence,  veneration,  and  love.  The  great  man 
obtains  this  after  a  time,  and  in  its  highest  forms, 
without  seeking  it,  simply  by  faithfulness  to  his  na- 
ture. He  gets  it  by  rising  and  doing  his  work,  in  the 
course  of  nature,  as  easily  and  as  irresistibly  as  the 


42  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

sun  gathers  to  the  clouds  the  evaporation  of  land  and 
sea,  and,  like  the  sun,  to  shed  it  down  in  blessings  on 
mankind.  Little  men  seek  this,  consciously  or  not 
knowing  it,  by  stooping,  cringing,  flattering  the  pride, 
the  passion  or  the  prejudice  of  others.  So  they  get 
the  approbation  of  men,  but  never  of  man.  Some- 
times this  is  sought  for  by  the  attainment  of  some  ac- 
cidental quality,  which  low-minded  men  hold  in  more 
honor  than  the  genius  of  sage  or  poet  or  the  brave 
manhood  of  some  great  hero  of  the  soul.  In  Eng- 
land, though  money  is  power,  it  is  patrician  birth 
which  is  nobility,  and  valued  most ;  and  there,  accord- 
ingly, birth  takes  precedence  of  all  —  of  genius,  and 
even  of  gold.  Men  seek  the  companionship  or  the 
patronage  of  titled  lords,  and  social  rank  depends  upon 
nobility  of  blood.  The  few  bishops  in  the  upper  house 
do  more  to  give  conventional  respectability  to  the 
clerical  profession  there  than  all  the  solid  intellect  of 
Hooker,  Barrow,  and  of  South,  the  varied  and  exact 
learning  of  philosophic  Cudworth,  the  eloquence  and 
affluent  piety  of  Taylor,  and  Butler's  vast  and  manly 
mind.  In  America,  social  rank  depends  substantially 
on  wealth,  an  accident  as  much  as  noble  birth,  but 
movable.  Here  gold  takes  precedence  of  all, —  of 
genius,  and  even  of  noble  birth. 

"  Though  your  sire 
Had  royal  blood  within  him,  and  though  you 
Possess  the  intellect  of  angels  too, 
'Tis  all  in  vain;  the  world  will  ne'er  inquire 
On  such  a  score; — Why  should  it  take  the  pains? 
'Tis  easier  to  weigh  purses,  sure,  than  brains." 

Wealth  is  sought,  not  merel}?^  as  a  means  of  power, 
but  of  nobility.  When  obtained,  it  has  the  power  of 
nobility ;  so  poor  men  of  superior  intellect  and  educa- 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  43 

tion,  powerful  by  nature,  not  by  position,  fear  to  dis- 
turb the  opinion  of  wealthy  men,  to  instruct  their  ig- 
norance or  rebuke  their  sin.  Hence  the  aristocracy  of 
wealth,  illiterate  and  vulgar,  goes  unrebuked,  and  de- 
bases the  natural  aristocracy  of  mind  and  culture  which 
bows  down  to  it.  The  artist  prostitutes  his  pencil  and 
his  skill,  and  takes  his  law  of  beauty  from  the  fat 
clown,  whose  barns  and  pigs  and  wife  he  paints  for 
daily  bread.  The  preacher  does  the  same ;  and  though 
the  stench  of  the  rum-shop  infests  the  pulpit,  and 
death  hews  down  the  leaders  of  his  flock,  the  preacher 
must  cry,  "  Peace,  peace,"  or  else  be  still,  for  rum  is 
power !  But  this  power  of  wealth  has  its  antagonistic 
force,  the  power  of  numbers.  INIuch  depends  on  the 
dollar.  Nine-tenths  of  the  property  is  owned  by  one- 
tenth  of  all  these  men  —  but  much  also  on  the  votes  of 
the  million.  The  few  are  strong  by  money,  the  many 
by  their  votes.  Each  is  worshipped  by  its  votaries, 
and  its  approbation  sought.  He  that  can  get  the  men 
controls  the  money  too.  So  while  one  portion  of  edu- 
cated men  bows  to  the  rich,  and  consecrates  their  pas- 
sion and  their  prejudice,  another  portion  bows,  equally 
prostrate,  to  the  passions  of  the  multitude  of  men. 
The  many  and  the  rich  have  each  a  public  opinion  of 
their  own,  and  both  are  tyrants.  Here  the  tyranny  of 
public  opinion  is  not  absolutely  greater  than  in  Eng- 
land, Germany,  or  France,  but  is  far  greater  in  com- 
parison with  other  modes  of  oppression.  It  seems  in- 
herent in  a  republic ;  it  is  not  in  a  republic  of  noble 
men.  But  here  this  sirocco  blows  flat  to  the  ground 
full  many  an  aspiring  blade.  Wealth  can  estabhsh 
banks  or  factories ;  votes  can  lift  the  meanest  man 
into  the  highest  political  place,  can  dignify  any  pas- 
sion with  the  name  and  force  of  human  law;  so  it  is 


44  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

thought  by  the  worsliippers  of  both,  seeking  the  ap- 
probation of  the  two,  that  pubHc  opinion  can  make 
truth  of  Hes,  and  right  even  out  of  foulest  wrong. 
PoHticians  begin  to  say,  there  is  no  law  of  God  above 
the  ephemeral  laws  of  men. 

There  are  few  American  works  of  literature  which 
appeal  to  what  is  best  in  men ;  few  that  one  could  wish 
should  go  abroad  and  live.  America  has  grown  be- 
yond hope  in  population,  the  free  and  bond,  in  riches, 
in  land,  in  public  material  prosperity;  but  in  a  litera- 
ture that  represents  the  higher  elements  of  manliness 
far  less  than  wise  men  thought.  They  looked  for  the 
fresh  new  child ;  it  is  born  with  wrinkles,  and  dread- 
fully like  his  grandmother,  only  looking  older  and 
more  effete.  Our  muse  does  not  come  down  from  an 
American  Parnassus,  with  a  new  heaven  in  her  eye,  men 
not  daring  to  look  on  the  face  of  anointed  beauty, 
coming  to  tell  of  noble  thought,  to  kindle  godlike  feel- 
ings with  her  celestial  spark,  and  stir  mankind  to  noble 
deeds.  She  finds  Parnassus  steep  and  high,  and  hard 
to  climb ;  the  air  austere  and  cold,  the  light  severe,  too 
stern  for  her  effeminate  nerves.  So'  she  has  a  little 
dwelHng  in  the  flat  and  close  pent  town,  hard  by  the 
public  street;  breathes  its  Boeotian  breath;  walks  with 
the  money-lenders  at  high  change ;  has  her  account  at 
the  bank,  her  pew  in  the  most  fashionable  church  and 
least  austere ;  she  gets  approving  nods  in  the  street, 
flattery  in  the  penny  prints,  sweetmeats  and  sparkling 
wine  in  the  proper  places.  What  were  the  inspira- 
tions of  all  God's  truth  to  her.f*  He  "  taunts  the  lofty 
land  with  little  men." 

There  still  remains  the  exceptional  literature;  some 
of  it  is  only  fugitive,  some  meant  for  permanent  dura- 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  45 

tion.  Here  is  a  new  and  different  spirit;  a  respect  for 
human  nature  above  human  history,  for  man  above  all 
the  accidents  of  man,  for  God  above  all  the  alleged  ac- 
cidents of  God ;  a  veneration  for  the  eternal  laws  which 
he  only  makes  and  man  but  finds ;  a  law  before  all 
statutes,  above  all  constitutions,  and  holier  than  all 
the  writings  of  human  hands.  Here  you  find  most 
fully  the  sentiments  and  ideas  of  America,  not  such  as 
rule  the  nation  now,  but  which,  unconsciously  to  the 
people,  have  caused  the  noble  deeds  of  our  history, 
and  now  prophesy  a  splendid  future  for  this  young 
giant  here.  These  sentiments  and  ideas  are  brought  to 
consciousness  in  this  literature.  Here  a  precedent  is 
not  a  limitation ;  a  fact  of  history  does  not  eclipse  an 
idea  of  nature ;  an  investment  is  not  thought  more 
sacred  than  a  right.  Here  is  more  hope  than  memory ; 
little  deference  to  wealth  and  rank,  but  a  constant 
aspiration  for  truth,  justice,  love,  and  piety;  little  fear 
of  the  public  opinion  of  the  many  or  the  few,  rather  a 
scorn  thereof,  almost  a  defiance  of  it.  It  appears  in 
books,  in  pamphlets,  in  journals,  and  in  sermons,  sorely 
scant  in  quantity  as  yet.  New  and  fresh,  it  is  often 
greatly  deficient  in  form ;  rough,  rude,  and  uncouth,  it 
yet  has  in  it  a  soul  that  will  live.  Its  authors  are  often 
men  of  a  wide  and  fine  culture,  though  mainly  tending 
to  underrate  the  past  achievements  of  mankind.  They 
have  little  reverence  for  great  names.  They  value  the 
Greek  and  Hebrew  mind  for  no  more  than  it  is  worth. 
With  them  a  wrong  is  no  more  respected  because  well 
descended,  and  supported  by  all  the  riches,  all  the 
votes;  a  right,  not  less  a  right  because  unjustly  kept 
out  of  its  own.  These  men  are  American  all  through ; 
so  intensely  national  that  they  do  not  fear  to  tell  the 
nation  of  the  wrong  it  does. 


46  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

The  form  of  this  Hterature  is  American.  It  is  indi- 
genous to  our  soil,  and  could  come  up  in  no  other  land. 
It  is  unlike  the  classic  literature  of  any  other  nation. 
It  is  American  as  the  Bible  is  Hebrew,  and  the  Odyssey 
is  Greek.  It  is  wild  and  fantastic,  like  all  fresh  origi- 
nal literature  at  first.  You  see  in  it  the  image  of  re- 
publican institutions  —  the  free  school,  free  state,  free 
church;  it  reflects  the  countenance  of  free  men.  So 
the  letters  of  old  France,  of  modern  England,  of  Italy 
and  Spain,  reflect  the  monarchic,  oligarchic,  and  ec- 
clesiastic institutions  of  those  lands.  Here  appears 
the  civilization  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  treasures 
of  human  toil  for  many  a  thousand  years.  More  than 
that,  you  see  the  result  of  a  fresh  contact  with  nature, 
and  original  intuitions  of  divine  things.  Acknowledg- 
ing inspiration  of  old,  these  writers  of  the  newness 
believe  in  it  now  not  less,  not  miraculous,  but  normal. 
Here  is  humanity  that  overleaps  the  bounds  of  class 
and  of  nation,  and  sees  a  brother  in  the  beggar,  pirate, 
slave,  one  family  of  men  variously  dressed  in  cuticles  of 
white  or  yellow,  black  or  red.  Here,  too,  is  a  new 
loveliness,  somewhat  akin  to  the  savage  beauty  of  our 
own  wild  woods,  seen  in  their  glorious  splendor  an  hour 
before  autumnal  suns  go  down  and  leave  a  trail  of 
glory  lingering  in  the  sky.  Here,  too,  is  a  piety  some- 
what heedless  of  scriptures,  liturgies,  and  forms  and 
creeds ;  it  finds  its  law  written  in  nature,  its  glorious 
everlasting  gospel  in  the  soul  of  man ;  careless  of  cir- 
cumcision and  baptismal  rites,  it  finds  the  world  a 
temple,  and  rejoices  everywhere  to  hold  communion 
with  the  Infinite  Father  of  us  all,  and  keep  a  sacra- 
ment in  daily  life,  conscious  of  immortality,  and  feed- 
ing continuall}'^  on  angels'  bread. 

The  writers  of  this  new  literature  are  full  of  faults ; 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  47 

yet  they  are  often  strong,  though  more  by  their  direc- 
tion than  by  native  force  of  mind ;  more  by  their  in- 
tuitions of  the  first  good,  first  perfect,  and  first  fair, 
than  through  their  historical  knowledge  or  dialectic 
power.  Their  ship  sails  swift,  not  because  it  is  sharper 
built,  or  carries  broader  sails  than  other  craft,  but 
because  it  steers  where  the  current  of  the  ocean  coin- 
cides with  the  current  of  the  sky,  and  so  is  borne  along 
by  nature's  wind  and  nature's  wave.  Uninvited,  its 
ideas  steal  into  parlor  and  pulpit,  its  kingdom  coming 
within  men  and  without  observation.  The  shoemaker 
feels  it  as  he  toils  in  his  narrow  shop ;  it  cheers  the 
maiden  w^eaving  in  the  mill,  whose  wheels  the  Merrimac 
is  made  to  turn ;  the  young  man  at  college  bids  it  wel- 
come to  his  ingenuous  soul.  So  at  the  breath  of  spring 
new  life  starts  up  in  every  plant ;  the  sloping  hills  are 
green  with  corn,  and  sunny  banks  are  blue  and  fra- 
grant with  the  wealth  of  violets,  which  only  slept  till 
the  enchanter  came.  The  sentiments  of  this  literature 
burn  in  the  bosom  of  holy-hearted  girls,  of  matrons, 
and  of  men.  Ever  and  anon  its  great  ideas  are  heard 
even  in  Congress,  and  in  the  speech  of  old  and  young, 
which  comes  tingling  into  most  unwilling  ears. 

This  literature  has  a  work  to  do,  and  is  about  its 
work.  Let  the  old  man  crow  loud  as  he  may,  the 
young  one  will  crow  another  strain ;  for  it  is  written 
of  God  that  our  march  is  continually  onward,  and  age 
shall  advance  over  age  for  ever  and  for  ever. 

Already  America  has  a  few  fair  specimens  from 
this  new  field  to  show.  Is  the  work  history?  The 
author  writes  from  the  stand-point  of  American  democ- 
racy,—  I  mean  philanthropy,  the  celestial  democracy, 
not  the  Satanic;  writes  with  a  sense  of  justice  and  in 
the  interest  of  men ;  writes  to  tell  a  nation's  purpose 


48  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

in  its  deeds,  and  so  reveal  the  universal  law  of  God, 
which  overrules  the  affairs  of  states  as  of  a  single  man. 
You  wonder  that  history  was  not  before  so  writ  that 
its  facts  told  the  nation's  ideas,  and  its  labors  were 
lessons,  and  so  its  hard-won  life  became  philosophy. 

Is  it  poetry  the  man  writes  .f*  It  is  not  poetry  like 
the  old.  The  poet  has  seen  nature  with  his  own  eyes, 
heard  her  with  his  own  mortal,  bodily  ears,  and  felt 
her  presence,  not  vicariously  through  Milton,  Uhland, 
Ariosto,  but  personally,  her  heart  against  his  heart. 
He  sings  of  what  he  knows,  sees,  feels,  not  merely  of 
what  he  reads  in  others'  song.  Common  things  are 
not  therefore  unclean.  In  plain  New  England  life  he 
finds  his  poetry,  as  magnets  iron  in  the  blacksmith's 
dust,  and  as  the  bee  finds  dew-bright  cups  of  honey 
in  the  common  woods  and  common  weeds.  It  is  not  for 
him  to  rave  of  Parnassus,  while  he  knows  it  not,  for 
the  soul  of  song  has  a  seat  upon  Monadnoc,  Wachu- 
sett,  or  Katahdin,  quite  as  high.  So  Scottish  Burns 
was  overtaken  by  the  muse  of  poetry,  who  met  him  on 
his  own  bleak  hills,  and  showed  him  beauty  in  the  daisy 
and  the  thistle  and  the  tiny  mouse,  till  to  his  eye  the 
hills  ran  o'er  with  loveliness,  and  Caledonia  became  a 
classic  land. 

Is  it  religion  the  author  treats  of?  It  is  not  wor- 
ship by  fear,  but  through  absolute  faith,  a  never-end- 
ing love ;  for  it  is  not  worship  of  a  howling  and  im- 
perfect God, —  grim,  jealous,  and  revengeful,  loving 
but  a  few,  and  them  not  well ;  but  of  the  Infinite  Father 
of  all  mankind,  whose  universal  providence  will  sure 
achieve  the  highest  good  of  all  that  are. 

These  men  are  few ;  in  no  land  are  they  numerous, 
or  were  or  will  be.  There  were  few  Hebrew  prophets, 
but  a  tribe  of  priests ;  there  are  but  few  mighty  bards 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  49 

that  hover  o'er  the  world ;  but  here  and  there  a  sage, 
looking  deep  and  living  high,  who  feels  the  heart  of 
things,  and  utters  oracles  which  pass  for  proverbs, 
psalms  and  prayers,  and  stimulate  a  world  of  men. 
They  draw  the  nations,  as  conjoining  moon  and  sun 
draw  waters  shore-ward  from  the  ocean  springs ;  and  as 
electrifying  heat  they  elevate  the  life  of  men.  Under 
their  influence  you  cannot  be  as  before.  They  stimu- 
late the  sound,  and  intoxicate  the  silly ;  but  in  the 
heart  of  noble  youths  their  idea  becomes  a  fact,  and 
their  prayer  a  daily  life. 

Scholars  of  such  a  stamp  are  few  and  rare,  not 
without  great  faults.  For  every  one  of  them  there  will 
be  many  imitators,  as  for  each  lion  a  hundred  lion- 
flies,  thinking  their  buzz  as  valiant  as  his  roar,  and 
wondering  the  forest  does  not  quake  thereat,  and  while 
they  feed  on  him  fancy  they  suck  the  breasts  of 
heaven. 

Such  is  the  scholars'  position  in  America ;  such  their 
duty,  and  such  the  way  in  which  they  pay  the  debt 
they  owe.  Will  men  of  superior  culture  not  all  act  by 
scholar-craft  and  by  the  pen?  It  were  a  pity  if  they 
did.  If  a  man  work  nobly,  the  office  is  as  worthy,  and 
the  purse  as  blessed  in  its  work.  The  pen  is  power, 
the  office  is  power,  the  purse  is  power ;  and  if  the  purse 
and  office  be  nobly  held,  then  in  a  high  mode  the  cul- 
tivated man  pays  for  his  bringing  up,  and  honors 
with  wide  sympathies  the  mass  of  men  who  give  him 
chance  to  ride  and  rule.  If  not;  if  these  be  meanly 
held,  for  self  and  not  for  man,  then  the  scholar  is  a 
debtor  and  a  traitor  too. 

The  scholar  never  had  so  fair  a  chance  before;  here 

is  the  noblest  opportunity  for  one  that  wields  the  pen ; 
II— 4 


50  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

it  is  mightier  than  the  sword,  the  office,  or  the  purse. 
All  things  concede  at  last  to  beauty,  justice,  truth  and 
love,  and  these  he  is  to  represent.  He  has  what  free- 
dom he  will  pay  for  and  take.  Let  him  talk  never  so 
heroic,  he  will  find  fit  audience,  nor  will  it  long  be  few. 
Men  will  rise  up  and  welcome  his  quickening  words  as 
vernal  grass  at  the  first  rains  of  spring.  A  great  na- 
tion which  cannot  live  by  bread  alone  asks  for  the  bread 
of  life ;  while  the  state  is  young  a  single  great  and  no- 
ble man  can  deeply  influence  the  nation's  mind.  There 
are  great  wrongs  which  demand  redress ;  the  present 
men  who  represent  the  office  and  the  purse  will  not  end 
these  wrongs.  They  linger  for  the  pen,  with  magic 
touch,  to  abolish  and  destroy  this  ancient  serpent- 
brood.  Shall  it  be  only  rude  men  and  unlettered  who 
confront  the  dragons  of  our  time  which  prowl  about 
the  folds  by  day  and  night,  while  the  scholar,  the 
appointed  guardian  of  mankind,  but  "  sports  with 
Amaryllis  in  the  shade,  or  with  the  tangles  of  Neaera's 
hair?  "  The  nation  asks  of  her  scholar  better  things 
than  ancient  letters  ever  brought ;  asks  his  wonders  for 
the  million,  not  the  few  alone.  Great  sentiments  burn 
now  in  half -unconscious  hearts,  and  great  ideas  kindle 
their  glories  round  the  heads  of  men.  Unconscious 
electricity,  truth  and  right,  flashes  out  of  the  earth, 
out  of  the  air.  It  is  for  the  scholar  to  attract  this 
ground-lightning  and  this  lightning  of  the  sky,  con- 
dense it  into  useful  thunder  to  destroy  the  wrong,  then 
spread  it  forth  a  beauteous  and  a  cheering  light,  shed- 
ding sweet  influence  and  kindling  life  anew.  A  few 
great  men  of  other  times  tell  us  what  may  be  now. 

Nothing  will  be  done  without  toil  —  talent  is  only 
power  of  work,  and  genius  greater  power  for  higher 
forms  of  work  —  nothing  without  self-denial ;  nothing 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  61 

great  and  good  save  by.  putting  your  idea  before  your- 
self, and  counting  it  dearer  than  your  flesli  and  blood. 
Let  it  hide  you,  not  your  obesity  conceal  the  truth  God 
gave  you  to  reveal.  The  quality  of  intellectual  work 
is  more  than  the  quantity.  Out  of  the  cloudy  world 
Homer  has  drawn  a  spark  that  lasts  three  thousand 
years.  "  One,  but  a  lion,"  should  be  the  scholar's 
maxim ;  let  him  do  many  things  for  daily  need ;  one 
great  thing  for  the  eternal  beauty  of  his  art.  A  sin- 
gle poem  of  Dante,  a  book  for  the  bosom,  lives  through 
the  ages,  surrounding  its  author  with  the  glory  of 
genius  in  the  night  of  time.  One  sermon  on  the 
mount,  compact  of  truths  brought  down  from  God,  all 
molten  by  such  pious  trust  in  him,  will  still  men's 
hearts  by  myriads,  while  words  dilute  with  other  words 
are  a  shame  to  the  speaker,  and  a  dishonor  to  men  who 
have  ears  to  hear. 

It  is  a  great  charity  to  give  beauty  to  mankind, 
part  of  the  scholar's  function.  How  we  honor  such 
as  create  mere  sensuous  loA'eliness !  Mozart  carves  it 
on  the  unseen  air;  Phidias  sculptures  it  out  from  the 
marble  stone ;  Raphael  fixes  ideal  angels,  maidens, 
matrons,  men,  and  his  triple  God  upon  the  canvas ; 
and  the  lofty  Angelo,  with  more  than  Amphionic  skill, 
bids  the  hills  rise  into  a  temple  which  constrains  the 
crowd  to  pray.  Look,  see  how  grateful  man  repays 
these  architects  of  beauty  with  never-ending  fame ! 
Such  as  create  a  more  than  sensuous  loveliness,  the 
Homers,  Miltons,  Shakespeares,  who  sing  of  man  in 
never-dying  and  creative  song  —  see  what  honors  we 
have  in  store  for  such,  what  honor  given  for  what  serv- 
ice paid !  But  there  is  a  beauty  higher  than  that  of 
art,  above  philosophy  and  merely  intellectual  grace;  I 
mean  the  loveliness  of  noble  life ;  that  is  a  beauty  in  the 


52  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

sight  of  man  and  God.  This  is  a  new  country,  the 
great  ideas  of  a  noble  man  are  easily  spread  abroad; 
soon  they  will  appear  in  the  life  of  the  people,  and  be 
a  blessing  in  our  future  history  to  ages  yet  unborn. 
A  few  great  souls  can  correct  the  licentiousness  of  the 
American  press,  which  is  now  but  the  type  of  covetous- 
ness  and  low  ambition ;  correct  the  mean  economy 
of  the  state,  and  amend  the  vulgarity  of  the  Ameri- 
can church,  now  the  poor  prostitute  of  every  wealthy 
sin. 

Oh,  ingenuous  young  maid  or  man,  if  such  you  are, 
—  if  not,  then  let  me  dream  you  such, —  seek  you  this 
beauty,  complete  perfection  of  a  man,  and  having  this 
go  hold  the  purse,  the  office,  or  the  pen,  as  suits  you 
best ;  but  out  of  that  life,  writing,  voting,  acting,  liv- 
ing in  all  forms,  you  shall  pay  men  back  for  your 
culture,  and  in  the  scholar's  noble  kind,  and  represent 
the  higher  facts  of  human  thought.  Will  men  still 
say,  "  This  wrong  is  consecrated ;  it  has  stood  for 
ages,  and  shall  stand  for  ever !  "  Tell  them,  "  No.  A 
wrong,  though  old  as  sin,  is  not  now  sacred,  nor  shall 
it  stand !  "  Will  they  say,  "  This  right  can  never  be ; 
that  excellence  is  lovely,  but  impossible !  "  Show  them 
the  fact,  who  will  not  hear  the  speech ;  the  deed  goes 
where  the  word  fails,  and  life  enchants  where  rhetoric 
cannot  persuade. 

Past  ages  offer  their  instruction,  much  warning,  and 
a  little  guidance,  many  a  wreck  along  the  shore  of 
time,  a  beacon  here  and  there.  Far  off  in  the  dim  dis- 
stance,  present  as  possibilities,  not  actual  as  yet,  future 
generations  with  broad  and  wishful  eyes  look  at  the  son 
of  genius,  talent,  educated  skill,  and  seem  to  say  "  A 
word  for  us,  it  will  not  be  forgot !  "  Truth  and 
Beauty,  God's  twin  daughters,  eternal  both  yet  ever 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  53 

young,  wait  there  to  offer  each  faithful  man  a  bud- 
ding branch, —  in  their  hands  budding,  in  his  to  blos- 
som and  mature  its  fruit, —  wherewith  he  sows  the 
field  of  time,  gladdening  the  millions  j^et  to  come. 


II 

RALPH  WALDO  EMERSON 

When  a  hen  lays  an  egg  in  the  farmer's  mow  she 
cackles  quite  loud  and  long.  "  See,"  says  the  compla- 
cent bird,  "  see  what  an  egg  I  have  laid !  "  all  the  other 
hens  cackle  in  sympathy,  and  seem  to  say,  "  what  a 
nice  egg  has  got  laid !  was  there  ever  such  a  family 
of  hens  as  our  family?  "  But  the  cackling  is  heard 
only  a  short  distance  in  the  neighboring  barnyards ; 
a  few  yards  above  the  blue  sky  is  silent.  By  and  by  the 
rest  will  drop  their  daily  burden,  and  she  will  cackle 
with  them  in  sympathy ;  but  ere  long  the  cackling  is 
still,  the  egg  has  done  its  service,  been  addled,  or  eaten, 
or  perhaps  proved  fertile  of  a  chick,  and  it  is  forgotten, 
as  well  as  the  cackler  who  laid  the  ephemeral  thing. 
But  when  an  acorn  in  June  first  uncloses  its  shell,  and 
the  young  oak  puts  out  its  earliest  shoot,  there  is  no 
noise ;  none  attending  its  growth,  yet  it  is  destined  to 
last  some  half  a  thousand  years  as  a  living  tree,  and 
serve  as  long  after  that  for  sound  timber.  Slowly  and 
in  silence,  unseen  in  the  dim  recesses  of  the  earth,  the 
diamond  gets  formed  by  small  accretions,  age  after 
age.  There  is  no  cackling  in  the  caverns  of  the  deep, 
as  atom  journeys  to  its  fellow  atom  and  the  crystal  is 
slowly  getting  made,  to  shine  on  the  bosom  of  loveli- 
ness or  glitter  in  the  diadem  of  an  emperor,  a  thing 
of  beauty  and  a  joy  forever. 

As  with  eggs,  so  is  it  with  little  books ;  when  one  of 
them  is  laid  in  some  bookseller's  mow  the  parent  and 
the  literary  barnyard  are  often  full  of  the  foolishest 

54 


EMERSON  55 

cackle,  and  seem  as  happy  as  the  ambiguous  offspring 
of  frogs  in  some  shallow  pool  in  early  summer.  But 
by  and  by  it  is  again  with  the  books  as  with  the  eggs ; 
the  old  noise  is  all  hushed,  and  the  little  books  all 
gone,  while  new  authors  are  at  the  same  work  again. 

Gentle  reader,  we  will  not  find  fault  with  such  books, 
they  are  useful  as  eggs ;  yea,  they  are  indispensible ; 
the  cackle  of  authors,  and  that  of  hens,  why  should 
they  not  be  allowed.'^  Is  it  not  written  that  all  things 
shall  work  after  their  kind,  and  so  produce ;  and  does 
not  this  rule  extend  from  the  hen-roost  to  the  Amer- 
ican Academy  and  all  the  Ro3^al  Societies  of  literature 
in  the  world  .^  Most  certainly.  But  when  a  great 
book  gets  written  it  is  published  with  no  fine  flourish 
of  trumpets,  the  world  does  not  speedily  congratulate 
itself  on  the  accession  made  to  its  riches ;  the  book  must 
wait  awhile  for  its  readers.  Literary  gentlemen  of 
the  tribe  of  Bavius  and  Msevius  are  popular  in  their 
time,  and  get  more  praise  than  bards  afterwards  fa- 
mous. What  audience  did  Athens  and  Florence  give 
to  their  Socrates  and  their  Dante  .^^  What  price  did 
Milton  get  for  the  Paradise  Lost.-^  How  soon  did  men 
appreciate  Shakespeare.^  Not  many  years  ago  George 
Steevens,^  who  "  edited "  the  works  of  that  bard, 
thought  an  "  Act  of  Parliament  was  not  strong 
enough  "  to  make  men  read  his  sonnets,  though  they 
bore  the  author  up  to  a  great  height  of  fame,  and  he 
sat  where  Steevens  "  durst  not  soar."  In  1686,  there 
had  been  four  editions  of  Flatman's  Poems,  five  of 
Waller's,  eight  of  Cowley's ;  but  in  eleven  years  of  the 
Paradise  Lost  only  three  thousand  copies  were  sold, 
yet  the  edition  was  cheap,  and  Norris  of  Bemerton  went 
through  eight  or  nine  editions  in  a  quite  short  time. 
For   forty-one   years,   from    1623   to    1664^,   England 


66  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

was  satisfied  with  two  editions  of  Shakespeare,  mak- 
ing, perhaps,  one  thousand  copies  in  all.  Says  Mr. 
Wordsworth  of  these  facts :  "  There  were  readers  in 
multitudes ;  but  their  money  went  for  other  purposes, 
as  their  admiration  was  fixed  elsewhere."  Mr.  Words- 
worth himself  furnishes  another  example.  Which 
found  the  readiest  welcome,  the  Excursion  and  the 
Lyrical  Poems  of  that  writer,  or  Mr.  Macaulay's  Lays 
of  Ancient  Rome.''  How  many  a  little  philosophist 
in  Germany  went  up  in  his  rocket-like  ascension,  while 
the  bookseller  at  Konigsberg  despaired  over  the  un- 
saleable sheets  of  Immanuel  Kant ! 

Says  an  Eastern  proverb,  "  the  sage  is  the  instruc- 
tor of  a  hundred  ages,"  so  he  can  afford  to  wait  till 
one  or  two  be  past  away,  abiding  with  the  few,  waiting 
for  the  fit  and  the  many.     Says  a  writer: 

"  There  is  somewhat  touching  in  the  madness  with  which  the 
passing  age  mischooses  the  object  on  which  all  candles  shine, 
and  all  eyes  are  turned;  the  care  with  which  it  registers  every 
trifle  touching  Queen  Elizabeth,  and  King  James,  and  the  Es- 
sexes,  Leicesters,  Burleighs,  and  Buckinghams;  and  lets  pass, 
without  a  single  valuable  note,  the  founder  of  another  dynasty, 
which  alone  will  cause  the  Tudor  dynasty  to  be  remembered, — 
the  man  who  carries  the  Saxon  race  in  him  by  the  inspiration 
which  feeds  him,  and  on  whose  thoughts  the  foremost  people 
of  the  world  are  now  for  some  ages  to  be  nourished,  and  minds 
to  receive  this  and  not  another  bias.  A  popular  player, —  no- 
body suspected  he  was  the  poet  of  the  human  race;  and  the 
secret  was  kept  as  faithfully  from  poets  and  intellectual  men, 
as  from  courtiers  and  frivolous  people.  Bacon,  who  took  the 
inventory  of  the  human  understanding  for  his  times,  never  men- 
tioned his  name.  Ben  Jonson  had  no  suspicion  of  the  elastic 
fame  whose  first  vibrations  he  was  attempting.  He  no  doubt 
thought  the  praise  he  has  conceded  to  him  generous,  and  es- 
teemed himself,  out  of  all  question,  the  better  poet  of  the 
two. 

"If  it  need  wit  to  know  wit,  according  to  the  proverb,  Shak- 
speare's  time  should  be  capable  of  recognizing  it.  .  .  .  Since 
the  constellation  of  great  men  who   appeared  in  Greece  in  the 


EMERSON  57 

time  of  Pericles,  there  was  never  any  such  society,  yet  their 
genius  failed  them  to  find  out  the  best  head  in  the  universe. 
Our  poet's  mask  was  impenetrable.  You  cannot  see  the  moun- 
tain near.  It  took  a  century  to  make  it  suspected;  and  not 
until  two  centuries  had  passed,  after  his  death,  did  any  criticism 
which  we  think  adequate  begin  to  appear.  It  was  not  possible 
to  write  the  history  of  Shakspeare  till  now," 

It  is  now  almost  fourteen  years  since  Mr.  Emerson 
published  his  first  book,  Nature.  A  beautiful  work  it 
was,  and  will  be  deemed  for  many  a  ^^ear  to  come.  In 
this  old  world  of  literature,  with  more  memory  than 
wit,  with  much  tradition  and  little  invention,  with  more 
fear  than  love,  and  a  great  deal  of  criticism  upon  very 
little  poetry,  there  came  forward  this  young  David, 
a  shepherd,  but  to  be  a  king,  "  with  his  garlands  and 
singing  robes  about  him ;  "  one  note  upon  his  new  and 
fresh-strung  lyre  was  "  worth  a  thousand  men."  Men 
were  looking  for  something  original,  they  always  are; 
when  it  came  some  said  it  thundered,  others  that  an 
angel  had  spoke.  How  men  wondered  at  the  little 
book  1  It  took  nearly  twelve  years  to  sell  the  five  hun- 
dred copies  of  Nature.  Since  that  time  Mr.  Emerson 
has  said  much,  and  if  he  has  not  printed  many  books, 
at  least  has  printed  much ;  some  things  far  surpass- 
ing the  first  essay,  in  richness  of  material,  in  per- 
fection of  form,  in  continuity  of  thought ;  but  nothing 
which  has  the  same  youthful  freshness,  and  the  same 
tender  beauty  as  this  early  violet,  blooming  out  of  Uni- 
tarian and  Calvinistic  sand  or  snow.  Poems  and 
Essays  of  a  later  date  are  there,  which  show  that  he  has 
had  more  time  and  woven  it  into  life ;  works  which  pre- 
sent us  with  thought  deeper,  wider,  richer,  and  more 
complete,  but  not  surpassing  the  simplicity  and  love- 
liness of  that  maiden  flower  of  his  poetic  spring. 

We  know  how  true  it  is  that  a  man  cannot  criticise 


58  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

what  he  cannot  comprehend,  nor  comprehend  either  a 
man  or  a  work  greater  than  himself.  Let  him  get  on 
a  Quarterly  never  so  high,  it  avails  him  nothing; 
"  pyramids  are  pyramids  in  vales,"  and  emmets  are 
emmets  even  in  a  Review.  Critics  often  afford  an  in- 
voluntary proof  of  this  adage,  yet  grow  no  wiser  by 
the  experience.  Few  of  our  tribe  can  make  the  sim- 
ple shrift  of  the  old  Hebrew  poet,  and  say,  "  we  have 
not  exercised  ourselves  in  great  matters,  nor  in  things 
too  high  for  us."  Sundry  Icarian  critics  have  we  seen 
wending  their  wearying  way  on  waxen  wing  to  overtake 
the  eagle  flight  of  Emerson ;  some  of  them  have  we 
known  getting  near  enough  to  see  a  fault,  to  over- 
take a  feather  falling  from  his  wing,  and  with  that 
tumbling  to  give  name  to  a  sea,  if  one  cared  to  notice 
to  what  depth  they  fell. 

Some  of  the  criticisms  on  Mr.  Emerson,  transatlantic 
and  cisatlantic,  have  been  very  remarkable,  not  to  speak 
more  definitely.  "What  of  this  new  book?"  said 
Mr.  Public  to  the  reviewer,  who  was  not  "  seized  and 
tied  down  to  judge,"  but  of  his  own  free  will  stood 
up  and  answered :  "  Oh !  'tis  out  of  all  plumb,  my 
lord,  quite  an  irregular  thing!  not  one  of  the  angles 
at  the  four  comers  is  a  right  angle.  I  had  my  rule 
and  compasses,  my  lord,  in  my  pocket.  And  for  the 
poem  (your  lordship  bid  me  look  at  it),  upon  taking 
the  length,  breadth,  height,  and  depth  of  it,  and  try- 
ing them  at  home  upon  an  exact  scale  of  Bossu's,  they 
are  out,  my  lord,  in  every  one  of  their  dimensions." 

Oh,  gentle  reader,  we  have  looked  on  these  efforts  of 
our  brother  critics  not  without  pity.  There  is  an  ex- 
cellent bird,  terrene,  marine,  and  semi-aerial ;  a  broad- 
footed  bird,  broad-beaked,  broad-backed,  broad-tailed ; 
a  notable  bird  she  is,  and  a  long-lived ;  a  useful  bird, 


EMERSON  59 

once  Indispensible  to  writers,  as  furnishing  the  pen, 
now  fruitful  in  many  a  hint.  But  when  she  under- 
takes to  criticise  the  music  of  the  thrush  or  the  move- 
ment of  the  humming-bird,  wh}^,  she  oversteps  the  mod- 
esty of  her  nature,  and  if  she  essays  the  flight  of  the 
eagle  she  is  fortunate  if  she  falls  only  upon  the  water. 
"  No  man,"  says  the  law,  may  "  stultify  himself." 
Does  not  this  canon  apply  to  critics?  No,  the  critic 
may  do  so.  Suicide  is  a  felony,  but  if  a  critic  only 
slay  himself  critically,  dooming  himself  to  "  hoise  with 
his  own  petard,"  why,  'tis  to  be  forgiven 

"  That  in  our  aspirations  to  be  great, 
Our  destinies  o'erleap  our  mortal  state." 

In  a  place  where  there  were  no  Quarterly  Journals 
the  veracious  historian.  Sir  Walter  Scott,  relates  that 
Claud  Halcro,  ambitious  of  fame,  asked  his  fortune  of 
an  Orcadian  soothsayer : 

"  Tell  me,  shall  my  lays  be  sung. 
Like  Hacon's  of  the  golden  tongue, 
Long  after  Halcro's  dead  and  gone? 
Or  shall  Hialtland's  minstrel  own 
One  note  to  rival  glorious  John  ?  " 

She  answers,  that  as  things  work  after  their  kind 
the  result  is  after  the  same  kind: 

"  The  eagle  mounts  the  polar  sky. 
The  Imber-goose,  unskiU'd  to  fly. 
Must  be  content  to  glide  along 
When  seal  and  sea-dog  list  his  song." 

We  are  warned  by  the  fate  of  our  predecessors, 
when  their  example  does  not  guide  us ;  we  confess  not 
only  our  inferiority  to  Mr.  Emerson,  but  our  conscious- 
ness of  the  fact,  and  believe  that  they  should  "  judge 
others  who  themselves   excel,"   and  that  authors,  like 


60  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

others  on  trial,  should  be  judged  by  their  peers.  So 
we  will  not  call  this  a  criticism  which  we  are  about  to 
write  on  Mr.  Emerson,  only  an  attempt  at  a  contribu- 
tion towards  a  criticism,  hoping  that,  in  due  time,  some 
one  will  come  and  do  faithfully  and  completely  what  it 
is  not  yet  time  to  accomplish,  still  less  within  our 
power  to  do. 

All  of  Mr.  Emerson's  literary  works,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  the  Poems,  were  published  before  they  were 
printed ;  delivered  by  word  of  mouth  to  audiences.  In 
frequently  reading  his  pieces  he  had  an  opportunity 
to  see  any  defect  of  form  to  amend  it.  ]\Ir.  Emerson 
has  won  by  his  writings  a  more  desirable  reputation 
than  any  other  man  of  letters  in  America  has  yet  at- 
tained. It  is  not  the  reputation  which  bring  him 
money  or  academic  honors,  or  membership  of  learned 
societies ;  nor  does  it  appear  conspicuously  in  the  liter- 
ary journals  as  yet.  But  he  has  a  high  place  among 
thinking  men  on  both  sides  of  the  water;  we  think  no 
man  who  writes  the  English  tongue  has  now  so  much 
influence  in  forming  the  opinions  and  character  of 
young  men  and  women.  His  audience  steadily  in- 
creases, at  home  and  abroad,  more  rapidly  in  England 
than  America.  It  is  now  with  him  as  it  was,  at  first, 
with  Dr.  Channing,  the  fairest  criticism  has  come 
from  the  other  side  of  the  water ;  the  reason  is  that  he, 
like  his  predecessor,  offended  the  sectarian  and  party 
spirit,  the  personal  prejudices  of  the  men  about  him; 
his  life  was  a  reproach  to  them,  his  words  an  off^ense, 
or  his  doctrines  alarmed  their  sectarian,  their  party, 
or  their  personal  pride,  and  they  accordingly  con- 
demned the  man.  A  writer  who  should  bear  the  same 
relation  to  the  English  mind  as  Emerson  to  ours,  for 
the  same  reason  would  be  more  acceptable  here  than 


EMERSON  61 

at  home.  Emerson  Is  neither  a  sectarian  nor  a  parti- 
san, no  man  less  so ;  3'et  few  men  in  America  have  been 
visited  with  more  hatred, —  private  personal  hatred, 
which  the  authors  poorly  endeavored  to  conceal,  and 
perhaps  did  hide  from  themselves.  The  spite  we  have 
heard  expressed  against  him  by  men  of  the  common 
morality  would  strike  a  stranger  with  amazement,  es- 
pecially when  it  is  remembered  that  his  personal  char- 
acter and  daily  life  are  of  such  extraordinary  loveli- 
ness. This  hatred  has  not  proceeded  merely  from  ig- 
norant men,  in  whom  it  could  easily  be  excused ;  but 
more  often  from  men  who  have  had  opportunities  of  ob- 
taining as  good  a  culture  as  men  commonly  get  in  this 
country.  Yet  while  he  has  been  the  theme  of  vulgar 
abuse,  of  sneers  and  ridicule  in  public  and  in  private ; 
while  critics,  more  remarkable  for  the  venom  of  their 
poison  than  the  strength  of  their  bow,  have  shot  at  him 
their  little  shafts,  barbed  more  than  pointed,  he  has 
also  drawn  about  him  some  of  what  old  Drayton  called 
"  the  idle  smoke  of  praise."  Let  us  see  what  he  has 
thrown  into  the  public  fire  to  cause  this  incense,  what 
he  has  done  to  provoke  the  immedicable  rage  of  certain 
other  men ;  let  us  see  what  there  is  in  his  works,  of  old 
or  new,  true  or  false,  what  American  and  what  cosmo- 
politan ;  let  us  weigh  his  works  with  such  imperfect 
scales  as  we  have,  weigh  them  by  the  universal  stand- 
ard of  beauty,  truth  and  love,  and  make  an  attempt  to 
see  what  he  is  worth. 

American  literature  may  be  distributed  into  two 
grand  divisions,  namely,  the  permanent  literature,  con- 
sisting of  books  not  written  for  a  special  occasion, 
books  which  are  bound  between  hard  covers ;  and  the 
transient  literature,  written  for  some  special  occasion 
and  not  designed  to  last  beyond  that.     Our  permanent 


62  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

literature  is  almost  wholly  an  imitation  of  old  models. 
The  substance  is  old,  and  the  form  old.  There  is  noth- 
ing American  about  it.  But  as  our  writers  are  com- 
monly quite  deficient  in  literary  culture  and  scientific 
discipline,  their  productions  seem  poor  when  compared 
with  the  imitative  portion  of  the  permanent  literature 
in  older  countries,  where  the  writers  start  with  a  better 
discipline  and  a  better  acquaintance  with  letters  and 
art.  This  inferiority  of  culture  is  one  of  the  misfor- 
tunes incident  to  a  new  country,  especially  to  one 
where  practical  talent  is  so  much  and  so  justly  pre- 
ferred to  merely  literary  accomplishment  and  skill. 
This  lack  of  culture  is  yet  more  apparent,  in  general, 
in  the  _  transient  literature  which  is  produced  mainly 
by  men  who  have  had  few  advantages  for  intellectual 
discipline  in  early  life,  and  few  to  make  acquaintance 
with  books  at  a  later  period.  That  portion  of  our  lit- 
erature is  commonly  stronger  and  more  American,  but 
it  is  often  coarse  and  rude.  The  permanent  literature 
is  imitative,  the  other  is  rowdy.  But  we  have  now  no 
time  to  dwell  upon  this  theme,  which  demands  a  sepa- 
rate paper. 

Mr.  Emerson  is  the  most  American  of  our  writers. 
The  idea  of  America,  which  lies  at  the  bottom  of  our 
original  institutions,  appears  in  him  wdth  great  prom- 
inence. We  mean  the  idea  of  personal  freedom,  of  the 
dignity  and  value  of  human  nature,  the  superiority  of 
a  man  to  the  accidents  of  a  man.  Emerson  is  the  most 
republican  of  republicans,  the  most  protestant  of  the 
dissenters.  Serene  as  a  July  sun,  he  is  equally  fear- 
less. He  looks  everything  in  the  face  modestly,  but 
with  earnest  scrutiny,  and  passes  judgment  upon  its 
merits.  Nothing  is  too  high  for  his  examination,  noth- 
ing too   sacred.     On   earth   only   one   thing   he   finds 


EMERSON  63 

which  is  thoroughly  venerable,  and  that  is  the  nature 
of  man ;  not  the  accidents,  which  make  a  man  rich  or 
famous,  but  the  substance,  which  makes  him  a  man. 
The  man  is  before  the  institutions  of  man,  his  nature 
superior   to   his   histor}'.     All    finite    things    are   only 
appendages  of  man,  useful,  convenient,  or  beautiful. 
Man  is  master,  and  nature  his  slave,  serving  for  many 
a  varied  use.      The  results  of  human  experience  —  the 
state,  the  church,  society,  the  famil}",  business,  litera- 
ture, science,  art  —  all  of  these  are  subordinate  to  man ; 
if  they  serve  the  individual,  he  is  to  foster  them,  if 
not,   to    abandon    them    and    seek   better    things.     He 
looks    at    all    things,    the    past    and    the    present,    the 
state    and   the    church,    Christianit}^    and    the    market- 
house,  in  the  da3'light  of  the  intellect.      Nothing  is  al- 
lowed to  stand  between  him  and  his  manhood.     Hence 
there  is  an  apparent  irreverence ;  he  does  not  bow  to 
any  hat  which  Gessler  has  set  up  for  public  adoration, 
but  to  every  man,  canonical  or  profane,  who  bears  the 
mark  of  native  manliness.      He  eats  show-bread,  if  he 
is  hungry.     While  he  is  the  most  American,  he  is  al- 
most the  most  cosmopolitan  of  our  writers,  the  least  re- 
strained and  belittled  by  the  popular  follies  of  the  na- 
tion or  the  age. 

In  America  writers  are  commonly  kept  in  awe  and 
subdued  by  fear  of  the  richer  class,  or  that  of  the  mass 
of  men.  Mr.  Emerson  has  small  respect  for  either ; 
would  bow  as  low  to  a  lackey  as  a  lord,  to  a  clown  as 
a  scholar,  to  one  man  as  a  million.  He  spurns  all  con- 
stitutions but  the  law  of  his  own  nature,  rejecting  them 
with  manly  scorn.  The  traditions  of  the  churches  are 
no  hindrances  to  his  thought ;  Jesus  or  Judas  were  the 
same  to  him,  if  either  stood  in  his  way  and  hindered 
the  proportionate  development  of  his  individual  life. 


64i  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

The  forms  of  society  and  the  ritual  of  scholarship 
are  no  more  effectual  restraints.  His  thought  of  to- 
day is  no  barrier  to  freedom  of  thought  to-m.orrow, 
for  his  own  nature  is  not  to  be  subordinated,  either 
to  the  history  of  man  or  his  own  history.  "  To-mor- 
row to  fresh  fields  and  pastures  new,"  is  his  motto. 

Yet,  with  all  this  freedom,  there  is  no  wilful  display 
of  it.  He  is  so  confident  of  his  freedom,  so  perfectly 
possessed  of  his  rights,  that  he  does  not  talk  of  them. 
They  appear,  but  are  not  spoken  of.  With  the  hope- 
fulness and  buoyant  liberty  of  America,  he  has  none  of 
our  ill-mannered  boasting.  He  criticises  America 
often,  he  always  appreciates  it ;  he  seldom  praises,  and 
never  brags  of  our  country.  The  most  democratic  of 
democrats,  no  disciple  of  the  old  regime  is  better  man- 
nered, for  it  is  only  the  vulgar  democrat  or  aristocrat 
who  flings  his  follies  in  your  face.  While  it  would 
be  difficult  to  find  a  writer  so  uncompromising  in  his 
adhesion  to  just  principles,  there  is  not  in  all  his  works 
a  single  jeer  or  ill-natured  sarcasm.  None  is  less  ad- 
dicted to  the  common  forms  of  reverence,  but  who  is 
more  truly  reverential  .f* 

While  his  idea  is  American,  the  form  of  his  literature 
is  not  less  so.  It  is  a  form  which  suits  the  substance, 
and  is  modified  by  the  institutions  and  natural  objects 
about  him.  You  see  that  the  author  lives  in  a  land 
with  free  institutions,  with  town-meetings  and  ballot- 
boxes,  in  the  vicinity  of  a  decaying  church,  amongst 
men  whose  terrible  devils  are  poverty  and  social  neg- 
lect, the  only  devils  whose  damnation  is  much  cared  for. 
His  geography  is  American.  Katskill  and  the  Alle- 
ghanies,  Monadnoc,  Wachusett,  and  the  uplands  of 
New  Hampshire  appear  in  poetry  or  prose ;  Contocook 
and  Agiochook  are  better  than  the  Ilyssus,  or  Facte- 


EMERSON  65 

lus,  or  "  smooth-sliding  Mincius,  crowned  with  vocal 
reeds."  New  York,  Fall  River,  and  Lowell  have  a 
place  in  his  writings  where  a  vulgar  Yankee  would  put 
Thebes  or  Psestum.  His  men  and  women  are  Amer- 
ican, John  and  Jane,  not  Coriolanus  and  Persephone. 
He  tells  of  the  rhodora,  the  club-moss,  the  blooming 
clover,  not  of  the  hibiscus  and  the  asphodel.  He  knows 
the  bumblebee,  the  blackbird,  the  bat  and  the  wren, 
and  is  not  ashamed  to  say  or  sing  of  the  things  under 
his  own  eyes.  He  illustrates  his  high  thought  by  com- 
mon things  out  of  our  plain  New-England  life  —  the 
meeting  in  the  church,  the  Sunday  school,  the  dancing- 
school,  a  huckleberry  party,  the  boys  and  girls  hasten- 
ing home  from  school,  the  youth  in  the  shop,  begin- 
ning an  unconscious  courtship  with  his  unheeding 
customer,  the  farmers  about  their  work  in  the  fields, 
the  bustling  trader  in  the  city,  the  cattle,  the  new  hay, 
the  voters  at  a  town-meeting,  the  village  brawler  in  a 
tavern  full  of  tipsy  riot,  the  conservative  who  thinks 
the  nation  is  lost  if  his  ticket  chance  to  miscarry,  the 
bigot  worshipping  the  knot  hole  through  which  a  dusty 
beam  of  light  has  looked  in  upon  his  darkness,  the 
radical  who  declares  that  nothing  is  good  if  estabhshed, 
and  the  patent  reformer  who  screams  in  your  ears  that 
he  can  finish  the  world  with  a  single  touch, —  and  out 
of  all  these  he  makes  his  poetry  or  illustrates  his  phi- 
losophy. Now  and  then  he  wanders  off  to  other  lands, 
reports  what  he  has  seen,  but  it  is  always  an  American 
report  of  what  an  American  eye  saw.  Even  Mr. 
Emerson's  recent  exaggerated  praise  of  England  is 
such  a  panegyric  as  none  but  an  American  could  be- 
stow. 

We  know  an  American  artist  who  is  full  of  Amer- 
ican scenery.     He  makes  good  drawings  of  Tivoli  and 
II— 5 


66  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Subiaco,  but,  to  color  them,  he  dips  his  pencil  in  the 
tints  of  the  American  heaven,  and  over  his  olive  trees 
and  sempervives,  his  asses  and  his  priests,  he  sheds  the 
light  only  of  his  native  sky.^  So  it  is  with  Mr.  Emer- 
son. Give  him  the  range  of  the  globe,  it  is  still  an 
American  who  travels. 

Yet  with  this  indomitable  nationality  he  has  a  cul- 
ture quite  cosmopolitan  and  extraordinary  in  a  young 
nation  like  our  own.  Here  is  a  man  familiar  with 
books,  not  with  many  but  the  best  books,  which  he 
knows  intimately.  He  has  kept  good  company.  Two 
things  impress  you  powerfully  and  continually  —  the 
man  has  seen  nature,  and  been  familiar  with  books. 
His  literary  culture  is  not  a  varnish  on  the  surface, 
not  a  mere  polish  of  the  outside ;  it  has  penetrated  deep 
into  his  consciousness.  The  salutary  effect  of  literary 
culture  is  more  perceptible  in  Emerson  than  in  any 
American  that  we  know,  save  one,  a  far  younger  man, 
and  of  great  promise,  of  whom  we  shall  speak  at  some 
other  time.^ 

We  just  now  mentioned  that  our  writers  were  sorely 
deficient  in  literary  culture.  Most  of  them  have  only 
a  smattering  of  learning,  but  some  have  read  enough, 
read  and  remembered,  with  ability  to  quote.  Here  is 
one  who  has  evidently  read  much,  his  subject  required 
it,  or  his  disposition,  or  some  accident  in  his  history 
furnished  the  occasion ;  but  his  reading  appears  only  in 
his  quotations  or  references  in  the  margin.  His  litera- 
ture has  not  penetrated  his  soul  and  got  incorporated 
with  his  whole  consciousness.  You  see  that  he  has  been 
on  Parnassus  by  the  huge  bouquet,  pedantic  in  its  com- 
plexity, that  he  affronts  you  with ;  not  by  the  odor  of 
the  flowers  he  has  trampled  or  gathered  in  his  pilgri- 
mage, not  by  Parnassian  dust  clinging  to  his  shoes  or 


EMERSON  67 

mountain  vigor  in  hi^  eye.  The  rose  gatherer  smells 
of  his  sweets,  and  needs  not  prick  you  with  the  thorn 
to  apprise  you  of  what  he  has  dealt  in. 

Here  is  another  writer  who  has  studied  much  in  the 
various  literatures  of  the  world,  but  has  lost  himself 
therein.  Books  supercede  things,  art  stands  between 
him  and  nature,  his  figures  are  from  literature  not  from 
the  green  world.  Nationality  is  gone.  A  traveller 
on  the  ocean  of  letters,  he  has  a  mistress  in  every  port, 
and  a  lodging-place  where  the  night  overtakes  him ; 
all  flags  are  the  same  to  him,  all  climes ;  he  has  no  wife, 
no  home,  no  country.  He  has  dropped  nationality, 
and  in  becoming  a  cosmopolitan  has  lost  his  citizen- 
ship everywhere.  So,  with  all  Christendom  and  hea- 
thendom for  his  metropolis,  he  is  an  alien  everywhere 
in  the  wide  world.  He  has  no  literary  inhabitiveness. 
Now  he  studies  one  author,  and  is  the  penumbra  there- 
of for  a  time;  now  another,  with  the  same  result. 
Trojan  or  Tyrian  is  the  same  to  him,  and  he  is  Trojan 
or  Tyrian  as  occasion  demands.  A  thin  vapory  comet, 
with  small  momentum  of  his  own,  he  is  continually  de- 
flected from  his  natural  course  by  the  attraction  of 
other  and  more  substantial  bodies,  till  he  has  for- 
gotten that  he  ever  had  any  orbit  of  his  own,  and 
dangles  in  the  literary  sky,  now  this  way  drawn,  now 
that,  his  only  certain  movement  an  oscillation.  With 
a  chameleon  variability,  he  attaches  himself  to  this  or 
the  other  writer,  and  for  the  time  his  own  color  disap- 
pears and  he  along  with  it.^ 

With  Emerson  all  is  very  diff^erent ;  his  literary  cul- 
ture is  of  him,  and  not  merely  on  him.  His  learning 
appears  not  in  his  quotations,  but  in  his  talk.  It  is 
the  wine  itself,  and  not  the  vintner's  brand  on  the  cask, 
which  shows  its  quality.     In  his  reading  and  his  study 


68  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

he  is  still  his  own  master.  He  has  not  purchased  his 
education  with  the  loss  of  his  identity,  not  of  his  man- 
hood ;  nay,  he  has  not  forgotten  his  kindred  in  getting 
his  culture.  He  is  still  the  master  of  himself,  no  man 
provokes  him  even  into  a  momentary  imitation.  He 
keeps  his  individuality  with  maidenly  asceticism,  and 
with  a  conscience  rarely  found  amongst  literary  men. 
Virgil  Homerizes,  Hesiodizes,  and  plays  Theocritus 
now  and  then.  Emerson  plays  Emerson,  always  Emer- 
son. He  honors  Greece  and  is  not  a  stranger  with 
her  noblest  sons,  he  pauses  as  a  learner  before  the  lovely 
muse  of  Germany,  he  bows  low  with  exaggerating  rev- 
erence before  the  practical  skill  of  England ;  but  no 
one,  nor  all  of  these,  have  power  to  subdue  that  serene 
and  upright  intellect.  He  rises  from  the  oracle  he 
stooped  to  consult  just  as  erect  as  before.  His  read- 
ing gives  a  certain  richness  to  his  style,  which  is  more 
literary  than  that  of  any  American  writer  that  we  re- 
member ;  as  much  so  as  that  of  Jeremy  Taylor.  He 
takes  much  for  granted  in  his  reader,  as  if  he  were 
addressing  men  who  had  read  everything,  and  wished 
to  be  reminded  of  what  they  had  read.  In  classic 
times  there  was  no  reading  public,  only  a  select  audi- 
ence of  highly  cultivated  men.  It  was  so  in  England 
once,  the  literature  of  that  period  indicates  the  fact. 
Only  religious  and  dramatic  works  were  designed  for 
pit,  box,  and  gallery.  Nobody  can  speak  more  clearly 
and  more  plainly  than  Emerson,  but  take  any  one  of 
his  essays  or  orations  and  you  see  that  he  does  not 
write  in  the  language  of  the  mass  of  men  more  than 
Thucydides  or  Tacitus.  His  style  is  allusive  as  an  ode 
of  Horace  or  Pindar,  and  the  allusions  are  to  litera- 
ture which  is  known  to  but  few.  Hence,  while  his 
thought  is  human  in   substance  and   American  in  its 


EMERSON  69 

modifications,  and  therefore  easily  grasped,  compre- 
hended, and  welconied  by  men  of  the  commonest  cul- 
ture, it  is  but  few  who  understand  the  entire  meaning 
of  the  sentences  which  he  writes.  His  style  reflects 
American  scenery,  and  is  dimpled  into  rare  beauty  as 
it  flows  by,  and  so  has  a  pleasing  fascination ;  but  it 
reflects  also  the  literary  scenery  of  his  own  mind,  and 
so  half  of  his  thought  is  lost  on  half  his  readers.  Ac- 
cordingly no  writer  or  lecturer  finds  a  readier  access 
for  his  thoughts  to  the  mind  of  the  people  at  large, 
but  no  American  author  is  less  intelligible  to  the  peo- 
ple in  all  his  manifold  meaning  and  beauty  of  allu- 
sion. He  has  not  completely  learned  to  think  with 
the  sagest  sages  and  then  put  his  thoughts  into  the 
plain  speech  of  plain  men.  Every  word  is  intelligible 
in  the  massive  speech  of  Mr.  Webster  and  has  its  eff'ect, 
while  Emerson  has  still  something  of  the  imbecility  of 
the  scholar  as  compared  to  the  power  of  the  man  of  ac- 
tion, whose  words  fall  like  the  notes  of  the  wood- 
thrush,  each  in  its  time  and  place,  yet  without  pick- 
ing and  choosing.  "  Blacksmiths  and  teamsters  do  not 
trip  in  their  speech,"  says  he,  "  it  is  a  shower  of  bul- 
lets. It  is  Cambridge  men  who  correct  themselves, 
and  begin  again  at  every  half  sentence ;  and  moreover, 
will  pun  and  refine  too  much,  and  swerve  from  the 
matter  to  the  expression."  But  of  the  peculiarities  of 
his  style  we  shall  speak  again. 

Emerson's  works  do  not  betray  any  exact  scholar- 
ship, which  has  a  certain  totality  as  well  as  method 
about  it.  It  is  plain  to  see  that  his  favorite  authors 
have  been  Plutarch,  especially  that  outpouring  of  his 
immense  common-place  book,  his  "  Moral  Writings," 
Montaigne,  Shakespeare,  George  Herbert,  Milton, 
Wordsworth,  Coleridge,  and  Carlyle.     Of  late  years 


70  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

his  works  contain  allusions  to  the  ancient  oriental  liter- 
ature from  which  he  has  borrowed  some  hard  names 
and  some  valuable  thoughts,  but  is  occasionally  led 
astray  by  its  influence,  for  it  is  plain  that  he  does  not 
understand  that  curious  philosophy  he  quotes  from. 
Hence  his  oriental  allies  are  brought  up  to  take  a 
stand  which  no  man  dreamed  of  in  their  time,  and  made 
to  defend  ideas  not  known  to  men  till  long  after  these 
antediluvian  sages  were  at  rest  in  their  graves.^ 

In  Emerson's  writings  you  do  not  see  indications  of 
exact  mental  discipline,  so  remarkable  in  Bacon,  Mil- 
ton, Taylor,  and  South,  in  Schiller,  Lessing  and 
Schleiermacher ;  neither  has  he  the  wide  range  of  mere 
literature  noticeable  in  all  other  men.  He  works  up 
scientific  facts  in  his  writings  with  great  skill,  often 
penetrating  beyond  the  fact,  and  discussing  the  idea 
out  of  which  it  and  many  other  kindred  facts  seem  to 
have  proceeded ;  this  indicates  not  only  a  nice  eye  for 
facts,  but  a  mind  singularly  powerful  to  detect  latent 
analogies,  and  see  the  one  in  the  many.  Yet  there  is 
nothing  to  show  any  regular  and  systematic  discipline 
in  science  which  appears  so  eminently  in  Schiller  and 
Hegel.  He  seems  to  learn  his  science  from  occasional 
conversation  with  men  of  science,  or  from  state- 
ments of  remarkable  discoveries  in  the  common  Jour- 
nals, not  from  a  careful  and  regular  study  of  facts  or 
treatises. 

With  all  his  literary  culture  he  has  an  intense  love 
of  nature,  a  true  sight  and  appreciation  thereof;  not 
the  analytic  eye  of  the  naturalist,  but  the  synthetic 
vision  of  the  poet.  A  book  never  clouds  his  sky.  His 
figures  are  drawn  from  nature,  he  sees  the  fact.  No 
chart  of  nature  hangs  up  in  his  windows  to  shut  out 
nature  herself.     How  well  he  says: 


EMERSON  71 

"  If  a  man  would  be  alone,  let  him  look  at  the  stars.  The 
rays  that  come  from  those  heavenly  worlds  will  separate  be- 
tween him  and  %adgar  things.  One  might  think  the  atmosphere 
was  made  transparent  with  this  design,  to  give  man  in  the 
heavenly  bodies  the  perpetual  presence  of  the  sublime.  Seen  in 
the  streets  of  cities,  how  great  they  are!  If  the  stars  should 
appear  one  night  in  a  thousand  years,  how  would  men  beUeve 
and  adore;  and  preserve  for  many  generations  the  remembrance 
of  the  city  of  God  which  had  been  shown !  But  every  night 
come  out  these  preachers  of  beauty  and  light  the  universe  with 
their  admonishing  smile.  ...  To  speak  truly,  few  adult 
persons  can  see  nature.  Most  persons  do  not  see  the  sun.  At 
least  they  have  a  very  superficial  seeing.  The  sun  illuminates 
only  the  eye  of  the  man,  but  shines  into  the  eye  and  the  heart 
of  the  child.  The  lover  of  nature  is  he  whose  inward  and 
outw^ard  senses  are  still  truly  adjusted  to  each  other,  who  has 
retained  the  spirit  of  infancy  even  into  the  era  of  manhood. 
His  intercourse  with  heaven  and  earth  becomes  part  of  his  daily 
food.  In  the  presence  of  nature,  a  wild  delight  runs  through 
the  man,  in  spite  of  real  sorrows.  Nature  says,  he  is  my 
creature,  and  maugre  all  his  impertinent  griefs,  he  shall  be  glad 
with  me.  Not  the  sun  or  the  summer  alone,  but  every  hour  and 
season  yields  its  tribute  of  delight;  for  every  hour  and  change 
corresponds  to  and  authorizes  a  different  state  of  mind,  from 
breathless  noon  to  grimmest  midnight.  Nature  is  a  setting  that 
fits  equally  well  a  comic  or  a  mourning  piece.  In  good  health, 
the  air  is  a  cordial  of  incredible  virtue.  Crossing  a  bare  com- 
mon, in  snow  puddles,  at  twihght,  under  a  clouded  sky,  without 
having  in  my  thoughts  any  occurrence  of  special  good  fortune, 
I  have  enjoyed  a  perfect  exhilaration.  Almost  I  fear  to  think 
how  glad  I  am.6  In  the  woods  too,  a  man  casts  off  his  years,  as 
the  snake  his  slough,  and  at  what  period  soever  of  life,  is  al- 
ways a  child.  In  the  woods  is  perpetual  youth.  Within  these 
plantations  of  God  a  decorum  and  sanctity  reign,  a  perennial 
festival  is  dressed,  and  the  guest  sees  not  how  he  should  tire  of 
them  in  a  thousand  years.  In  the  woods  we  return  to  reason 
and  faith.  There  I  feel  that  nothing  can  befall  me  in  life, — 
no  disgrace,  no  calamity  (leaving  me  my  eyes),  which  nature 
cannot  repair.  Standing  on  the  bare  ground, —  my  head  bathed 
by  the  blithe  air,  and  uplited  into  infinite  space, —  all  mean 
egotism  vanishes.  I  become  a  transparent  eyeball.  I  am  noth- 
ing. I  see  all.  The  currents  of  the  Universal  Being  circulate 
through  me,  I  am  part  or  particle  of  God.  The  name  of  the 
nearest  friend  sounds  then  foreign  and  accidental.  To  be 
brothers,  to  be  acquaintances,  master  or  servant,  is  then  a  trifle 


72  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

and  a  disturbance.  I  am  the  lover  of  uncontained  and  immor- 
tal beauty.  In  the  wilderness  I  find  something  more  dear  and 
connate  than  in  streets  or  villages.  In  the  tranquil  landscape, 
and  especially  in  the  distant  line  of  the  horizon,  man  beholds 
somewhat  as  beautiful  as  his  own  nature.*     .    .     . 

*'  The  tradesman,  the  attorney,  comes  out  of  the  din  and  craft 
of  the  street,  and  sees  the  sky  and  the  woods,  and  is  a  man 
again.  In  their  eternal  calm  he  finds  himself.  The  health  of 
the  eye  seems  to  demand  a  horizon.  We  are  never  tired,  so 
long  as  we  can  see  far  enough. 

"  But  in  other  hours  nature  satisfies  the  soul  purely  by  its 
loveliness,  and  without  any  mixture  of  corporeal  benefit.  I  have 
seen  the  spectacle  of  morning  from  the  hill-top  over  against  my 
house,  from  daybreak  to  sun-rise,  with  emotions  which  an  angel 
might  share.  The  long  slender  bars  of  cloud  float  like  fishes 
in  the  sea  of  crimson  light.  From  the  earth  as  a  shore  I  look 
out  into  that  silent  sea.  I  seem  to  partake  its  rapid  trans- 
formations; the  active  enchantment  reaches  my  dust,  and  I 
dilate  and  conspire  with  the  morning  wind.  How  does  nature 
deify  us  with  a  few  and  cheap  elements !  Give  me  health  and 
a  day,  and  I  will  make  the  pomp  of  emperors  ridiculous.  The 
dawn  is  my  Assyria;  the  sunset  and  moon-rise  my  Paphos, 
and  unimaginable  realms  of  faerie;  broad  noon  shall  be  my 
England  of  the  senses  and  the  understanding;  the  night  shall 
be  my  Germany  of  mystic  philosophy  and  dreams.f 

Most  writers  are  demonized  or  possessed  by  some  one 
truth,  or  perhaps  some  one  whim.  Look  where  they 
will,  they  see  nothing  but  that.  Mr.  Emerson  holds 
himself  erect,  and  no  one  thing  engrosses  his  attention, 
no  one  idea ;  no  one  intellectual  faculty  domineers  over 
the  rest.  Sensation  does  not  dim  reflection,  nor  does 
his  thought  lend  its  sickly  hue  to  the  things  about  him. 
Even  Goethe,  with  all  his  boasted  equilibrium,  held 
his  intellectual  faculties  less  perfectly  in  hand  than 
Emerson.  He  has  no  hobbies  to  ride ;  even  his  fond- 
ness for  the  ideal  and  the  beautiful,  does  not  hinder 
him  from  obstinately  looking  real  and  ugly  things  in 
the  face.     He  carries  the  American  idea  of  freedom  in- 

*  Centenary  ed.,  Vol.  I.  pp.  7-10. 
t  The  same,  pp.  16,  17. 


EMERSON  73 

to  his  most  intimate  personality,  and  keeps  his  individ- 
uality safe  and  sacred.  He  cautions  young  men 
against  stooping  their  minds  to  other  men.  He  knows 
no  master.  Sometimes  this  is  carried  to  an  apparent 
excess,  and  he  underrates  the  real  value  of  literature, 
afraid  lest  the  youth  become  a  bookworm  and  not  a 
man  thinking.     But  how  well  he  says : 

"  Meek  young  men  grow  up  in  libraries,  believing  it  their 
duty  to  accept  the  views  which  Cicero,  which  Locke,  which 
Bacon  have  given,  forgetful  that  Cicero,  Locke,  and  Bacon  were 
only  young  men  in  libraries  when  they  wrote  these  books. 
Hence,  instead  of  man  thinking,  we  have  the  bookworm. 

"Books  are  the  best  of  things,  well  used;  abused,  among  the 
worst.  What  is  the  right  use?  What  is  the  one  end,  which  all 
means  go  to  effect?  They  are  for  nothing  but  to  inspire.  I 
had  better  never  see  a  book  than  to  be  warped  by  its  attraction 
clean  out  of  my  own  orbit,  and  made  a  satellite  instead  of  a 
system.  The  one  thing  in  the  world  of  value  is  the  active  soul. 
This  every  man  is  entitled  to;  this  every  man  contains  within 
him,  although,  in  almost  all  men,  obstructed,  and  as  yet  unborn. 
The  soul  active  sees  absolute  truth,  and  utters  truth  or  cre- 
ates. .  .  .  The  book,  the  college,  the  school  of  art,  the  in- 
stitution of  any  kind  stop  with  some  past  utterance  of  genius. 
This  is  good,  say  they;  let  us  hold  by  this.  They  pin  me  down. 
They  look  backward  and  not  forward.  But  genius  looks  for- 
ward; the  eyes  of  man  are  set  in  his  forehead,  not  in  his  hind- 
head;  man  hopes,  genius  creates.  Whatever  talents  may  be,  if 
the  man  creates  not,  the  pure  efflux  of  the  Deity  is  not  his; 
cinders  and  smoke  there  may  be,  but  not  yet  flame 

"  The  world  of  any  moment  is  the  merest  appearance.  Some 
great  decorum,  some  fetish  of  a  government,  some  ephemeral 
trade,  or  war  or  man  is  cried  up  by  half  mankind  and  cried 
down  by  the  other  half,  as  if  all  depended  on  this  particular 
up  or  down.  The  odds  are  that  the  whole  question  is  not  worth 
the  poorest  thought  which  the  scholar  has  lost  in  listening  to 
the  controversy.  Let  him  not  quit  his  belief  that  a  popgun  is 
a  popgun,  though  the  ancient  and  honorable  of  the  earth  affirm 
it  to  be  the  crack  of  doom.  In  silence,  in  steadiness,  in  severe 
abstraction,  let  him  hold  by  himself;  add  observation  to  observa- 
tion, patient  of  neglect,  patient  of  reproach,  and  bide  his  own 
time, —  happy  enough  if  he  can  satisfy  himself  alone  that  this 
day  he  has  seen  something  truly.    Success  treads  on  every  right 


74  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

step.  For  the  instinct  is  sure  that  prompts  him  to  tell  his 
brother  what  he  thinks.  He  then  learns  that  in  going  down 
into  the  secrets  of  his  own  mind  he  has  descended  into  the  se- 
crets of  all  minds.  He  learns  that  he  who  has  mastered  any 
law  in  his  private  thoughts  is  master  to  that  extent  of  all  men 
whose  language  he  speaks,  and  of  all  into  whose  language  his 
own  can  be  translated.  The  poet,  in  utter  solitude  remember- 
ing his  spontaneous  thoughts  and  recording  them,  is  found  to 
have  recorded  that  which  men  in  crowded  cities  find  true  for 
them  also."  * 

To  US  the  effect  of  Emerson's  writings  is  profoundly 
religious ;  they  stimulate  to  piety,  the  love  of  God,  to 
goodness  as  the  love  of  man.  We  know  no  living 
writer  in  any  language  who  exercises  so  powerful  a 
religious  influence  as  he.  Most  young  persons,  not 
ecclesiastical,  will  confess  this.  We  know  he  is  often 
called  hard  names  on  pretence  that  he  is  not  religious. 
We  remember  once  being  present  at  a  meeting  of  gen- 
tlemen, scholarly  men  some  of  them,  after  the  New- 
England  standard  of  scholarship,  who  spent  the  even- 
ing in  debating  "  Whether  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  was 
a  Christian."  "^  The  opinion  was  quite  generally  en- 
tertained that  he  was  not,  for  "  discipleship  was  neces- 
sary to  Christianity."  "  And  the  essence  of  Christian 
discipleship  "  was  thought  to  consist  in  "  sitting  at  the 
feet  of  our  blessed  Lord  (pronounced  Laawd!)  and 
calling  him  Master,  which  Emerson  certainly  does  not 
do."  We  value  Christianity  as  much  as  most  men,  and 
the  name  Christian  to  us  is  very  dear ;  but  when  we  re- 
membered the  character,  the  general  tone  and  conduct 
of  the  men  who  arrogate  to  themselves  the  name  Chris- 
tian, and  seem  to  think  they  have  a  right  to  monopo- 
lize the  Holy  Spirit  of  Religion,  and  "  shove  away  the 
worthy  bidden  guest,"  the  whole  thing  reminded  us  of 
a  funny  story  related  by  an  old  writer :  "  It  was  once 

*  Centenary  ed.,  Vol.  1,  pp.  89,  90,  103,  103. 


EMERSON  75 

proposed  in  the  British  House  of  Commons  that  James 
Usher,  afterward  the  celebrated  Archbishop  of  Ar- 
magh, but  then  a  young  man,  should  be  admitted  to 
the  assembly  of  the  *  King's  Divines.'  "  The  proposi- 
tion, if  we  remember  rightly,  gave  rise  to  some  debate 
upon  which  John  Selden,  a  younger  man  than  Usher, 
but  highly  distinguished  and  much  respected,  rose  and 
said,  "  that  it  reminded  him  of  a  proposition  which 
might  be  made,  that  Inigo  Jones,  the  famous  architect, 
should  be  admitted  to  the  worshipful  company  of 
Mousetrap  Makers  !  "  ^ 

Mr.  Emerson's  writings  are  eminently  religious ; 
Christian  in  the  best  sense  of  that  word.  This  has 
often  been  denied  for  two  reasons :  because  Mr.  Emer- 
son sets  little  value  on  the  mythology  of  the  Christian 
sects,  no  more  perhaps  than  on  the  mythology  of  the 
Greeks  and  the  Scandinavians,  and  also  because  his 
writings  far  transcend  the  mechanical  morality  and 
formal  pietism  commonly  recommended  by  gentlemen 
in  pulpits.  Highly  religious,  he  is  not  at  all  eccle- 
siastical or  bigoted.  He  has  small  reverence  for  forms 
and  traditions ;  a  manly  life  is  the  only  form  of  relig- 
ion which  he  recognizes,  and  hence  we  do  not  wonder  at 
all  that  he  also  has  been  deemed  an  infidel.  It  would 
be  very  surprising  if  it  were  not  so.  Still  it  is  not  re- 
ligion that  is  most  conspicuous  in  these  volumes ;  that 
is  not  to  be  looked  for  except  in  the  special  religious  lit- 
erature, yet  we  must  confess  that  any  one  of  Emerson's 
works  seems  far  more  religious  than  what  are  commonly 
called  "  good  books,"  including  the  class  of  sermons. 

To  show  what  is  in  Mr.  Emerson's  books  and  what 
is  not,  let  us  make  a  little  more  detailed  examination 
thereof.  He  is  not  a  logical  writer,  not  systematic, 
not  what  is  commonly  called  philosophical ;  didactic  to 


76  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

a  great  degree,  but  never  demonstrative.  So  we  are 
not  to  look  for  a  scientific  plan,  or  for  a  system  of 
which  the  author  is  himself  conscious.  Still,  in  all  sane 
men  there  must  be  a  system,  though  the  man  does  not 
know  it.  There  are  two  ways  of  reporting  upon  an 
author :  one  is  to  represent  him  by  specimens,  the  other 
to  describe  him  by  analysis ;  one  to  show  off  a  finger 
or  foot  of  the  Venus  de  Medici,  the  other  to  give  the 
dimensions  thereof.  We  will  attempt  both,  and  will 
speak  of  Mr.  Emerson's  starting  point,  his  terminus  a 
quo;  then  of  his  method  of  procedure,  his  via  in  qua; 
then  of  the  conclusion  he  arrives  at,  his  terminus  ad 
quern.  In  giving  the  dimensions  of  his  statue  we  shall 
exhibit  also  some  of  the  parts  described. 

Most  writers,  knowingly  or  unconsciously,  take  as 
their  point  of  departure  some  special  and  finite  thing. 
This  man  starts  from  a  tradition,  the  philosophical 
tradition  of  Aristotle,  Plato,  Leibnitz,  or  Locke ;  this 
from  the  theological  tradition  of  the  Protestants  or 
the  Catholics  and  never  will  dare  get  out  of  sight  of 
his  authorities,  he  takes  the  bearing  of  everything  from 
his  tradition.  Such  a  man  may  sail  the  sea  for  ages, 
he  arrives  nowhere  at  the  last.  Our  traditionist  must 
not  outgo  his  tradition ;  the  Catholic  must  not  get  be- 
3^ond  his  church,  nor  the  Protestant  out-travel  his  Bi- 
ble. Others  start  from  some  fixed  fact,  a  sacrament, 
a  constitution,  the  public  opinion,  the  public  morality, 
or  the  popular  religion.  This  they  are  to  defend  at 
all  hazards ;  of  course  they  will  retain  all  falsehood  and 
injustice  which  favor  this  institution,  and  reject  all  jus- 
tice and  truth  which  oppose  the  same.  Others  pre- 
tend to  start  from  God,  but  in  reality  do  take  their  de- 
parture from  a  limited  conception  of  God,  from  the 
Hebrew  notion  of  liim,  or  the  Catholic  notion,  from  the 


EMERSON  7T 

Calvinistic  or  the  Unitarian  notion  of  God.  By  and 
by  they  are  hindered  and  stopped  in  their  progress. 
The  philosophy  of  these  three  clases  of  men  is  always 
vitiated  by  the  prejudices  they  start  with. 

Mr.  Emerson  takes  man  for  his  point  of  departure, 
he  means  to  take  the  whole  of  man ;  man  with  his  his- 
tory, man  with  his  nature,  his  sensational,  intellectual, 
moral,  affectional  and  religious  instincts  and  faculties. 
With  him  man  is  the  measure  of  all  things,  of  ideas 
and  of  facts ;  if  they  fit  man  they  are  accepted,  if  not 
thrown  aside.  This  appears  in  his  first  book  and  in 
his  last: 

"  The  foregoing  generations  beheld  God  and  nature  face  to 
face,  we  through  their  eyes.  "Why  should  not  we  also  enjoy  an 
original  relation  to  the  universe?  Why  should  not  we  have  a 
poetry  and  philosophy  of  insight  and  not  of  tradition,  and  a 
religion  by  a  revelation  to  us,  and  not  the  history  of  theirs? 
Embosomed  for  a  season  in  nature,  whose  floods  of  life  stream 
around  and  through  us,  and  invite  us  by  the  powers  they  supply 
to  action  proportioned  to  nature,  why  should  we  grope  among 
the  dry  bones  of  the  past,  or  put  the  living  generation  into 
masquerade  out  of  its  faded  wardrobe?  The  sun  shines  to-day 
also.  There  is  more  wool  and  flax  in  the  fields.  There  are  new 
lands,  new  men,  new  thoughts.  Let  us  demand  our  own  works 
and  laws  and  worship."  * 

Again  he  speaks  in  a  higher  mood  of  the  same  theme : 

"  That  is  always  best  which  gives  me  to  myself.  The  sublime 
is  excited  in  me  by  the  great  stoical  doctrine.  Obey  thyself. 
That  which  shows  God  in  me  fortifies  me.  That  which  shows 
God  out  of  me,  makes  me  a  wart  and  a  wen.  There  is  no 
longer  a  necessary  reason  for  my  being.  Already  the  long 
shadows  of  untimely  oblivion  creep  over  me,  and  I  shall  decease 
for  ever." 

"  Wherever  a  man  comes,  there  comes  revolution.  The  old  is 
for  slaves.  "When  a  man  comes,  all  books  are  legible,  all  things 
transparent,  all  religions  are  forms.  He  is  religious.  Man  is 
the  wonder-worker.     He  is  seen  amid  miracles.     All  men  bless 

*  Centenary  ed.,  Vol.  1,  p.  3. 


78  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

and  curse.  He  saith  yea  and  nay  only.  The  stationariness  of 
religion,  the  assumption  that  the  age  of  inspiration  is  past,  that 
the  Bible  is  closed,  the  fear  of*  degrading  the  character  of  Jesus 
by  representing  him  as  a  man,  indicate  with  sufficient  clearness 
the  falsehood  of  our  theology.  It  is  the  office  of  a  true  teacher 
to  show  us  that  God  is,  not  was;  that  he  speaketh,  not  spake." 

"Let  me  admonish  you,  first  of  all,  to  go  alone;  to  refuse  the 
good  models,  even  those  which  are  sacred  in  the  imagination  of 
men,  and  dare  to  love  God  without  mediator  or  veil.  Friends 
enough  you  shall  find  who  will  hold  up  to  your  emulation  Wesleys 
and  Oberlins,  saints  and  prophets.  Thank  God  for  these  good 
men,  but  say,  '  I  also  am  a  man.'  Imitation  cannot  go  above  its 
model.  The  imitator  dooms  himself  to  hopeless  mediocrity.  The 
inventor  did  it  because  it  was  natural  to  him,  and  so  in  him  it 
has  a  charm.  In  the  imitator,  sometning  else  is  natural,  and  he 
bereaves  himself  of  his  own  beauty  to  come  short  of  another 
man's. 

"  Yourself  a  new-born  bard  of  the  Holy  Ghost, —  cast  behind 
you  all  conformity,  and  acquaint  men  at  the  first  hand  with 
Deity.  Look  to  it  first  and  only  that  fashion,  custom,  author- 
ity, pleasure,  and  money  are  nothing  to  you,  are  not  bandages 
over  your  eyes  that  you  cannot  see, —  but  live  the  privilege  of 
the  immeasurable  mind." 

"  Let  man  then  learn  the  revelation  of  all  nature,  and  all 
thought  to  his  heart;  this,  namely;  that  the  Highest  dwells  with 
him;  that  the  sources  of  nature  are  in  his  own  mind  if  the  sen- 
timent of  duty  is  there.  But  if  he  would  know  what  the  great 
God  speaketh,  he  must  '  go  into  his  closet  and  shut  the  door,' 
as  Jesus  said.  God  will  not  make  himself  manifest  to  cowards. 
He  must  greatly  listen  to  himself,  withdrawing  himself  from 
all  the  accents  of  other  men's  devotion.  Their  prayers  even 
are  hurtful  to  him,  until  he  have  made  his  own.  The  soul 
makes  no  appeal  from  itself.  Our  religion  vulgarly  stands  on 
numbers  of  believers.  Whenever  the  appeal  is  made, —  no  mat- 
ter how  indirectly, —  to  numbers,  proclamation  is  then  and 
there  made,  that  religion  is  not.  He  that  finds  God  a  sweet, 
enveloping  thought  to  him  never  counts  his  company.  When  I 
sit  in  that  presence,  who  shall  dare  to  come  in?  When  I  rest 
in  perfect  humility,  when  I  burn  with  pure  love,  what  can 
Calvin  or  Swedenborg  say  ?  "  * 

And  again  in  his  latest  publication: 

"  The  gods  of  fable  are  the  shining  moments  of  great  men. 
We  run  all  our  vessels  into  one  mould.     Our  colossal  theologies 

*  Centenary  ed..  Vol.  1,  pp.  131,  144,  146;  vol.  2,  pp.  294,  295. 


EMERSON  79 

of  Judaism,  Christism,  Buddhism,  Mahometism,  are  the  neces- 
sary and  structural  action  of  the  human  mind." 

"  Man  is  that  noble  endogenous  plant  which  grows,  like  the 
palm,  from  within,  outward.  ...  I  count  him  a  great  man 
who  inhabits  a  higher  sphere  of  thought,  into  which  other  men 
rise  with  labor  and  difficulty;  he  has  but  to  open  his  eyes  to  see 
things  in  a  true  light,  and  in  large  relations;  whilst  they  must 
make  painful  corrections,  and  keep  a  vigilant  eye  on  many 
sources  of  error." 

"  The  genius  of  humanity  is  the  right  point  of  view  of  his- 
tory. .  .  .  For  a  time  our  teachers  serve  us  personally,  as 
metres  or  milestones  of  progress.  Once  they  were  angels  of 
knowledge  and  their  figures  touched  the  sky.  Then  we  drew 
near,  saw  their  means,  culture,  and  limits;  and  they  yielded 
their  place  to  other  geniuses.  Happy,  if  a  few  names  remain 
so  high,  that  we  have  not  been  able  to  read  them  nearer,  and 
age  and  comparison  have  not  robbed  them  of  a  ray.  But,  at 
last,  we  shall  cease  to  look  in  men  for  completeness,  and  shall 
content  ourselves  with  their  social  and  delegated  quality. 

"Yet,  within  the  limits  of  human  education  and  agency,  we 
may  say,  great  men  exist  that  there  may  be  greater  men.  The 
destiny  of  organized  nature  is  amelioration,  and  who  can  tell  its 
limits?  It  is  for  man  to  tame  the  chaos;  on  every  side,  whilst 
he  lives,  to  scatter  the  seeds  of  science  and  of  song,  that  cli- 
mate, corn,  animals,  men  may  be  milder,  and  the  germs  of  love 
and  benefit  may  be  multiplied." 

"The  world  is  young?  the  former  great  men  call  to  us  af- 
fectionately. We  too  must  write  Bibles,  to  unite  again  the 
heavens  and  the  earthly  world.  The  secret  of  genius  is  to  suf- 
fer no  fiction  to  exist  for  us,  to  realize  all  that  we  know;  in 
the  high  refinement  of  modern  life,  in  arts,  in  sciences,  in 
books,  in  men,  to  exact  good  faith,  reality,  and  a  purpose;  and 
first,  last,  midst,  and  without  end,  to  honor  every  truth  by 
use."  * 

In  this  Emerson  is  more  American  than  America  her- 
self, and  is  himself  the  highest  exponent  in  literature 
of  this  idea  of  human  freedom  and  the  value  of  man. 
Channing  talks  of  the  dignity  of  human  nature,  his 
great  and  brilliant  theme ;  but  he  commonly,  perhaps 
always  subordinates  the  nature  of  man  to  some  of  the 
accidents  of  his  history.     This   Emerson  never  does; 

*  Centenary  ed..  Vol.  4,  pp.  4,  6,  33-35,  290. 


80  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

no,  not  once  in  all  his  works,  nor  in  all  his  life.  Still 
we  think  it  is  not  the  whole  of  man  from  which  he 
starts,  that  he  undervalues  the  logical,  demonstrative, 
and  historical  understanding,  with  the  results  thereof, 
and  also  undervalues  the  aiFections.  Hence  his  man, 
who  is  the  measure  of  all  things,  is  not  the  complete 
man.  This  defect  appears  in  his  ethics,  which  are  a 
little  cold,  the  ethics  of  marble  men ;  and  in  his  religious 
teachings,  the  highest  which  this  age  has  furnished, 
full  of  reverence,  full  of  faith,  but  not  proportion- 
ately rich  in  affection. 

Mr.  Emerson  has  a  method  of  his  own  as  plainly 
marked  as  that  of  Lord  Bacon  or  Descartes,  and  as 
rigidly  adhered  to.  It  is  not  the  inductive  method, 
by  which  you  arrive  at  a  general  fact  from  many  par- 
ticular facts,  but  never  reach  a  universal  law ;  it  is  not 
the  deductive  method,  whereby  a  minor  law  is  derived 
from  a  major,  a  special  from  a  general  law;  it  is 
neither  inductive  nor  deductive  demonstration.  But 
Emerson  proceeds  by  the  way  of  intuition,  sensational 
or  spiritual.  Go  to  the  fact  and  look  for  yourself,  is 
his  command ;  a  material  fact  you  cannot  always  ver- 
ify and  so  for  that  must  depend  on  evidence,  a  spiritual 
fact  you  can  always  legitimate  for  yourself.  Thus  he 
says: 

"That  which  seems  faintly  possible  it  is  so  refined,  is  often 
faint  and  dim  because  it  is  deepest  seated  in  the  mind  among 
the  eternal  verities.  Empirical  science  is  apt  to  cloud  the  sight, 
and,  by  the  very  knowledge  of  functions  and  processes,  to  be- 
reave the  student  of  the  manly  contemplation  of  the  whole. 
The  savant  becomes  unpoetic.  But  the  best  read  naturalist, 
who  lends  an  entire  and  devout  attention  to  truth,  will  see  that 
there  remains  much  to  learn  of  his  relation  to  the  world,  and 
that  it  is  not  to  be  learned  by  any  addition  or  subtraction  or 
other  comparison  of  known  quantities,  but  is  arrived  at  by 
untaught  sallies   of  the  spirit,  by   continual  self-recovery,  and 


EMERSON  81 

by  entire  humility.  He  will  perceive  that  there  are  far  more 
excellent  qualities  in  the  student  than  preciseness  and  infalli- 
bility, that  a  guess  is  often  more  fruitful  than  an  indisputable 
affirmation,  and  that  a  dream  may  let  us  deeper  into  the  secret 
of  nature   than   a  hundred   concerted   experiments." 

"  Every  surmise  and  vaticination  of  the  mind  is  entitled  to  a 
certain  respect,  and  we  learn  to  prefer  imperfect  theories,  and 
sentences  which  contain  glimpses  of  truth,  to  digested  systems 
which  have  no  one  valuable  suggestion.  A  wise  writer  will  feel 
that  the  ends  of  study  and  composition  are  best  answered  by 
announcing  undiscovered  regions  of  thought,  and  so  communi- 
cating through  hope  new  activity  to  the  torpid  spirit."  * 

And  again: 

"  Jesus  astonishes  and  overpowers  sensual  people.  They  can- 
not unite  him  to  history  or  reconcile  him  with  themselves.  As 
they  come  to  revere  their  intuitions  and  aspire  to  live  holily, 
their  own  piety  explains  every  fact,  every  word." 

"  The  inquiry  leads  us  to  that  source,  at  once  the  essence  of 
genius,  the  essence  of  virtue,  and  the  essence  of  life,  which  we 
call  spontaneity  or  instinct.  We  denote  this  primary  wisdom 
as  intuition,  whilst  all  later  teachings  are  tuitions.  In  that  deep 
force,  the  last  fact  behind  which  analysis  cannot  go,  all  things 
find  their  common  origin.  For  the  sense  of  being  which  in 
calm  hours  rises,  we  know  not  how,  in  the  soul,  is  not  diverse 
from  things,  from  space,  from  hght,  from  time,  from  man, 
but  one  with  them,  and  proceedeth  obviously  from  the  same 
source  whence  their  life  and  being  also  proceedeth.  We  fir^t 
share  the  life  by  which  things  exist,  and  afterwards  see  them 
as  appearances  in  nature,  and  forget  that  we  have  shared  their 
cause.  Here  is  the  fountain  of  action  and  the  fountain  of 
thought.  Here  are  the  lungs  of  that  inspiration  which  giveth 
man  wisdom,  of  that  inspiration  of  man  which  cannot  be  denied 
without  impiety  and  atheism.  We  lie  in  the  lap  of  immense 
intelligence,  which  makes  us  organs  of  its  activity  and  receivers 
of  its  truth.  When  we  discern  justice,  when  we  discern  truth, 
we  do  nothing  of  ourselves,  but  aUow  a  passage  to  its  beams. 
If  we  ask  whence  this  comes,  if  we  seek  to  pry  into  the  soul 
that  causes, —  all  metaphysics,  all  philosophy  is  at  fault.  Its 
presence  or  its  absence  is  all  we  can  affirm.  .  .  .  Perception 
is  not  whimsical,  but  fatal.  If  I  see  a  trait,  my  children  wiU 
see  it  after  me,  and  in  course  of  time,  all  mankind, —  although 
it  may  chance  that  no  one  has  seen  it  before  me.  For  my  per- 
ception of  it  is  as  much  a  fact  as  the  sun." 

*  Centenary  ed..   Vol.   I.   pp.    66-7,   70. 
II— 6 


82  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

"  The  relations  of  the  soul  to  the  Divine  Spirit  are  so  pure 
that  it  is  profane  to  seek  to  interpose  helps.  It  must  be  that 
when  God  speaketh,  he  should  communicate  not  one  thing,  but 
all  things;  should  fill  the  world  with  his  voice;  should  scatter 
forth  light,  nature,  time,  souls,  from  the  centre  of  the  present 
thought;  and  new-date  and  new-create  the  whole.  Whenever 
a  mind  is  simple,  and  receives  a  divine  wisdom,  then  old  things 
pass  away, —  means,  teachers,  texts,  temples  fall;  it  lives  now 
and  absorbs  past  and  future  into  the  present  hour." 

''  The  soul  is  the  perceiver  and  revealer  of  truth.  We  know 
truth  when  we  see  it,  let  sceptic  and  scoffer  say  what  they 
choose.  Foolish  people  ask  you,  when  you  have  spoken  what 
they  do  not  wish  to  hear,  '  how  do  you  know  it  is  the  truth, 
and  not  an  error  of  your  own?'  We  know  truth,  when  we  see 
it,  from  opinion,  as  we  know  when  we  are  awake  that  we  are 
awake." 

"The  great  distinction  between  teachers,  sacred  or  literary; 
between  poets  like  Herbert  and  poets  like  Pope;  between  phi- 
losophers like  Spinoza,  Kant,  and  Coleridge,  and  philosophers 
like  Locke,  Paley,  Mackintosh,  and  Stewart;  between  men  of 
the  world  who  are  reckoned  accomplished  talkers,  and  here  and 
there  a  fervent  mystic,  prophesying  half-insane  under  the  In- 
finitude of  his  thought,  is  that  one  class  speak  from  within,  or 
from  experience,  as  parties  and  possessors  of  the  fact;  and  the 
other  class,  from  without,  as  spectators  merely,  or  perhaps  as 
acquainted  with  the  fact,  on  the  evidence  of  third  persons.  It 
is  of  no  use  to  preach  to  me  from  without.  I  can  do  that  too 
easily  myself." 

"  The  soul  gives  itself  alone,  original,  and  pure,  to  the 
I>onely,  Original,  and  Pure,  who,  on  that  condition,  gladly  in- 
habits, leads,  and  speaks  through  it.  Then  it  is  glad,  young, 
and  nimble.  It  is  not  wise,  but  it  sees  through  ail  things.  It 
is  not  called  religious,  but  it  is  innocent.  It  calls  the  light  its 
own,  and  feels  that  the  grass  grows  and  the  stone  falls  by  a 
law  inferior  to,  and  dependent  on,  its  nature.  Behold,  it  saith, 
I  am  born  into  the  great,  the  universal  mind.  I,  the  imperfect, 
adore  my  own  Perfect.  I  am  somehow  receptive  of  the  Great 
Soul,  and  thereby  I  do  overlook  the  sun  and  the  stars,  and  feel 
them  to  be  but  the  fair  accidents  and  effects  which  change  and 
pass.  More  and  more  the  surges  of  everlasting  nature  enter 
into  me,  and  I  become  public  and  human  in  my  regards  and 
actions.  So  come  I  to  live  in  thoughts  and  act  with  energies 
which  are  Immortal."  * 

*  Centenary  ed.,  Vol.  3,  pp.  27-8,  63-66,  279,  287,  296. 


EMERSON  83 

"  All  your  learning  of  all  literatures  would  never  enable  you 
to  anticipate  one  of  its .  thoughts  or  expressions,  and  yet  each 
is  natural  and  tamiliar  as  household  words."  * 

The  same  method  in  his  last  work  is  ascribed  to 
Plato: 

"  Add  to  this,  he  believes  that  poetry,  prophecy,  and  the  high 
insight  are  from  a  wisdom  of  which  man  is  not  master,  that  the 
gods  never  philosophize;  but,  by  a  celestial  mania,  these  miracles 
are  accomplished."  t 

Sometimes  he  exaggerates  the  value  of  this,  and  puts 
the  unconscious  before  the  self-conscious  state: 

"  It  is  pitiful  to  be  an  artist,  when,  by  forbearing  to  be 
artists,  we  might  be  vessels  filled  with  the  divine  overflowings, 
enriched  by  the  circulations  of  omniscience  and  omnipresence. 
Are  there  not  moments  in  the  history  of  heaven  when  the  hu- 
man race  was  not  counted  by  individuals,  but  was  only  the  In- 
fluenced, was  God  in  distribution,  God  rushing  into  multiform 
benefit?  It  is  sublime  to  receive,  sublime  to  love,  but  this  lust 
of  imparting  as  from  us,  this  desire  to  be  loved,  the  wish  to 
be  recognized  as  individuals,  is  finite,  comes  of  a  lower  strain."  $ 

He  is  sometimes  extravagent  in  the  claims  made  for 
his  own  method,  and  maintains  that  ecstacy  is  the  nat- 
ural and  exclusive  mode  of  arriving  at  new  truths,  while 
it  is  only  one  mode.  Ecstacy  is  the  state  of  intuition  in 
which  the  man  loses  his  individual  self -consciousness. 
Moments  of  this  character  are  few  and  rare  even  with 
men  like  the  St.  Victors,  like  Tauler,  and  Bohme  and 
Swedenborg.  The  writings  of  all  these  men,  especially 
of  the  two  last,  who  most  completely  surrendered  them- 
selves to  this  mode  of  action,  show  how  poor  and  in- 
sufficient it  is.  All  that  mankind  has  learned  in  this 
way  is  Httle  compared  with  the  results  of  reflection, 

*  Centenary  ed..  Vol.  I.  p.  218. 
t  The  same.  Vol.  4,  p.  58. 
t  The  same.  Vol.  I.  p.  210. 


84  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

of  meditation,  and  careful,  conscientious  looking  after 
truth ;  all  the  great  benefactors  of  the  world  have  been 
patient  and  continuous  in  their  work : 

"  Not  from  a  vain  and  shallow  thought 
His  awful  Jove  young  Phidias  brought." 

Mr.  Emerson  says  books  are  only  for  one's  idle 
hours ;  he  discourages  hard  and  continuous  thought, 
conscious  modes  of  argument,  of  discipline.  Here  he 
exaggerates  his  idiosyncracy  into  a  universal  law.  The 
methed  of  nature  is  not  ecstasy,  but  patient  attention. 
Human  nature  avenges  herself  for  the  slight  he  puts 
on  her,  by  the  irregular  and  rambling  character  of  his 
own  productions.  The  vice  appears  more  glaring  in 
the  Emersonidas,  who  have  all  the  agony  without  the 
inspiration,  who  affect  the  unconscious,  write  even  more 
ridiculous  nonsense  than  th&ir  "  genuis  "  requires ;  are 
sometimes  so  child-like  as  to  become  mere  babies,  and 
seem  to  forget  that  the  unconscious  state  is  oftener 
below  the  conscious  than  above  it,  and  that  there  is  an 
ecstasy  of  folly  as  well  as  of  good  sense. 

Some  of  these  imbeciles  have  been  led  astray  by  this 
extravagant  and  one-sided  statement.  What  if  books 
have  hurt  Mr.  Oldbuck,  and  many  fine  wits  lie 
"  sheathed  to  the  hilt  in  ponderous  tomes,"  sheathed 
and  rusted  in  so  that  no  Orson  could  draw  the  blade, 
—  we  need  not  deny  the  real  value  of  books,  still  less 
the  value  of  the  serious  and  patient  study  of  thoughts 
and  things.  Michael  Angelo  and  Newton  had  some 
genius ;  Socrates  is  thought  not  destitute  of  philoso- 
phical power ;  but  no  dauber  of  canvas,  no  sportsman 
with  marble,  ever  worked  like  Angelo ;  the  two  philos- 
ophers wrought  by  their  genius,  but  with  an  attention, 
an    order,   a    diligence,    and   a    terrible   industry   and 


EMERSON  85 

method  of  thought,  without  which  their  genius  would 
have  ended  in  nothing  but  guess-work.  Much  comes 
bj  spontaneous  intuition,  which  is  to  be  got  in  no  other 
way;  but  much  is  to  precede  that,  and  much  to  follow 
it.  There  are  two  things  to  be  considered  in  the  mat- 
ter of  inspiration,  one  is  the  Infinite  God  from  whom 
it  comes,  the  other  the  finite  capacity  which  is  to  receive 
it.  If  Newton  had  never  studied,  it  would  be  as  easy 
for  God  to  reveal  the  calculus  to  his  dog  Diamond  as 
to  Newton.  We  once  heard  of  a  man  who  thought 
everything  was  in  his  soul,  and  so  gave  up  all  reading, 
all  continuous  thought.  Said  another,  "  if  all  is  in  the 
soul,  it  takes  a  man  to  find  it." 

Here  are  some  of  the  most  important  conclusions 
Mr.  Emerson  has  hitherto  arrived  at. 

Man  is  above  nature,  the  material  world.  Last  win- 
ter, in  his  lectures,^  he  was  understood  to  affirm  "  the 
identity  of  man  with  nature ;  "  a  doctrine  which  seems 
to  have  come  from  his  oriental  reading  before  named, 
a  doctrine  false  as  well  as  inconsistent  with  the  first 
principles  of  his  philosophy.  But  in  his  printed  works 
he  sees  clearly  the  distinction  between  the  two,  a  fact 
not  seen  by  the  Hindoo  philosophers,  but  first  by  the 
Hebrew  and  Greek  writers.  Emerson  puts  man  far 
before  nature: 

"We  are  taught  by  great  actions  that  the  universe  is  the 
property  of  every  individual  in  it.  Every  rational  creature  has 
aU  nature  for  his  dowry  and  estate.  It  is  his  if  he  wUl.  He 
may  divest  himself  of  it;  he  may  creep  into  a  corner,  and  ab- 
dicate his  kingdom,  as  most  men  do,  but  he  is  entitled  to  the 
world  by  his  constitution.  In  proportion  to  the  energy  of  his 
thought  and  will,  he  takes  up  the  world  into  himself." 

"  Thus  in  art  does  nature  work  through  the  will  of  a  man 
filled  with  the  beauty  of  her  first  works." 

"  Nature  is  thoroughly  mediate.  It  is  made  to  serve.  It 
receives  the  dominion  of  man  as  meekly  as  the  ass  on  which 


S6  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

the  Saviour  rode.     It  offers  all  its  kingdoms  to  man  as  the  raw 
material  which  he  may  mould  into  what  is   useful."  * 

Nature  is  "  an  appendix  to  the  soul."  Then  the 
man  is  superior  to  the  accidents  of  his  past  history  or 
present  condition: 

"  No  man  ever  prayed  heartily  without  learning  something."  f 
"  The  highest  merit  we  ascribe  to  Moses,  Plato,  and  Milton, 
is  that  they  set  at  naught  books  and  traditions,  and  spoke  not 
what  men  said  but  what  they  thought.  A  man  should  learn  to 
detect  and  watch  that  gleam  of  light  which  flashes  across  his 
mind  from  within,  more  than  the  luster  of  the  firmament  of 
bards  and  sages." 

"  Kingdom  and  lordship,  power  and  estate,  are  a  gaudier 
vocabulary  than  private  John  and  Edward  in  a  small  house  and 
common  day's  work;  but  the  things  of  life  are  the  same  to 
both,  the  sum  total  of  both  is  the  same.  Why  all  this  deference 
to  Alfred  and  Scanderbeg,  and  Gustavus?  Suppose  they 
were  virtuous;  did  they  wear  out  virtue?  As  great  a  stake 
depends  on  your  private  act  to-day,  as  followed  their  public 
and  renowned  steps.  When  private  men  shall  act  with  vast 
views,  the  luster  will  be  transferred  from  the  actions  of  kings 
to  those  gentlemen."  J 

Hence  a  man  must  be  true  to  his  present  convic- 
tion, careless  of  consistency : 

"  A  foolish  consistency  is  the  hobgoblin  of  little  minds, 
adored  by  little  statesmen,  and  philosophers  and  divines.  With 
consistency  a  great  soul  has  simply  nothing  to  do.  He  may 
as  well  concern  himself  with  his  shadow  on  the  wall.  Out  upon 
your  guarded  lips !  Sew  them  up  with  packthread,  do.  Else, 
if  you  would  be  a  man,  speak  what  you  think  to-day  in  words 
as  hard  as  cannon-balls,  and  to-morrow  speak  what  to-morrow 
thinks  in  hard  words  again,  though  it  contradict  everything 
you  said  to-day."  ** 

The  man  must  not  be  a  slave  to  a  single  form  of 

thought : 

*  Centenary  ed..  Vol.  1,  pp.  20,  24,  40. 
t  The  same.  Vol.  1,  p.  74. 
t  The  same,  Vol.  2,  pp.  45,  62-63. 
**  The  same.  Vol.  2,  p.  57. 


EMERSON  87 

**  How  wearisome  the  grammarian,  the  phrenologist,  the  po- 
litical or  religious  fanatic,  or  indeed  any  possessed  mortal, 
whose  balance  is  lost  by  the  exaggeration  of  a  single  topic.  It 
is  incipient  insanity."  * 

Man  is  inferior  to  the  great  law  of  God,  which  over- 
rides the  world ;  "  His  wealth  and  greatness  consist 
in  his  being  the  channel  through  which  heaven  flows 
to  earth ;  "  "  the  word  of  a  poet  is  only  the  mouth  of 
divine  wisdom ;  "  "  the  man  on  whom  the  soul  descends, 
alone  can  teach ;  "  all  nature  "  from  the  sponge  up  to 
Hercules  is  to  hint  or  to  thunder  man  the  laws  of  right 
and  wrong."  This  ethical  character  seems  the  end  of 
nature :  "  the  moral  law  lies  at  the  centre  of  nature  and 
radiates  to  the  circumference.  It  is  the  pith  and  mar- 
row of  every  substance,  every  relation,  every  process. 
All  things  with  which  we  deal  point  to  us.  What  is  a 
farm  but  a  mute  gospel.'^  "  Yet  he  sometimes  tells  us 
that  man  is  identical  with  God  under  certain  circum- 
stances, an  old  Hindoo  notion,  a  little  favored  by  some 
passages  in  the  New  Testament,  and  revived  by  Hegel 
in  modern  times,  in  whom  it  seems  less  inconsistent  than 
in  Emerson. 

This  moral  law  continually  gives  men  their  compen- 
sation. "  You  cannot  do  wrong  without  suffering 
wrong." 

"And  this  law  of  laws  which  the  pulpit,  the  senate,  and  the 
college  deny,  is  hourly  preached  in  all  markets  and  all  lan- 
^ages,  by  flights  of  proverbs,  whose  teaching  is  as  true  and  as 
omnipresent  as  that  or  birds  and  flies. 

"All  things  are  double,  one  against  another:  Tit  for  tat,  an 
<eye  for  an  eye,  a  tooth  for  a  tooth,  blood  for  blood,  measure 
for  measure,  love  for  love.  Give  and  it  shall  be  given  you. 
He  that  watereth  shall  be  watered  himself.  What  will  you 
haver  quoth  God;  pay  for  it  and  take  it.  Nothing  venture, 
nothing  have.     Thou  shalt  be  paid  exactly  for  what  thou  hast 

*  Centenary  ed.,  Vol.  2,  p.  339. 


88  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

done,  no  more,  no  less.  Who  doth  not  work  shall  not  eat. 
Harm  watch,  harm  catch.  Curses  always  recoil  on  the  head 
of  him  who  imprecates  them.  If  you  put  a  chain  around  the 
neck  of  a  slave  the  other  end  fastens  itself  round  your  own. 
Bad  counsel  confounds  the  adviser.     The  devil  is  an  ass." 

"  There  is  no  den  in  the  wide  world  to  hide  a  rogue.  There 
is  no  such  thing  as  concealment.  Commit  a  crime,  and  the 
earth  is  made  of  glass.  Commit  a  crime,  and  it  seems  as  if  a 
coat  of  snow  fell  on  the  ground,  such  as  reveals  in  the  woods 
the  track  of  every  partridge  and  fox  and  squirrel  and  mole. 
You  cannot  recall  the  spoken  word,  you  cannot  wipe  out  the 
foot-track,  you  cannot  draw  up  the  ladder,  so  as  to  leave  no 
inlet  or  clew.  Always  some  damning  circumstance  transpires. 
The  laws  and  substances  of  nature,  water,  snow,  wind,  gravi- 
tation, become  penalties  to  the  thief." 

"  Neither  can  it  be  said,  on  the  other  hand,  that  the  gain  of 
rectitude  must  be  bought  by  any  loss.  There  is  no  penalty  to 
virtue,  no  penalty  to  wisdom;  they  are  proper  additions  of  be- 
ing. In  a  virtuous  action,  I  properly  am;  in  a  virtuous  act,  I 
add  to  the  world;  I  plant  into  deserts,  conquered  from  chaos 
and  nothing,  and  see  the  darkness  receding  on  the  limits  of  the 
horizon.  There  can  be  no  excess  to  love,  none  to  knowledge, 
none  to  beauty,  when  these  attributes  are  considered  in  the 
purest  sense.  The  soul  refuses  all  limits.  It  affirms  in  man 
always  an  optimism,  never  a  pessimism."  * 

By  virtue  of  obedience  to  this  law  great  men  are 
great,  and  only  so : 

"  We  do  not  yet  see  that  virtue  is  height,  and  that  a  man  or  a 
company  of  men  plastic  and  permeable  to  principles,  by  the  law 
of  nature  must  overpower  and  ride  aU  cities,  nations,  kings, 
rich  men,  poets,  who  are  not." 

"  A  true  man  belongs  to  no  other  time  or  place,  but  is  the 
center  of  things.  Where  he  is,  there  is  nature.  He  measures 
you,  and  all  men,  and  all  events.  You  are  constrained  to  ac- 
cept his  standard.  Ordinarily  everybody  in  society  reminds  us 
of  somewhat  else  or  some  other  person.  Character,  reality, 
reminds  you  of  nothing  else.  It  takes  place  of  the  whole  crea- 
tion. The  man  must  be  so  much  that  he  must  make  all  cir- 
cumstances indifferent,  put  all  means  into  the  shade.  This  all 
great  men  are  and  do.  Every  true  man  is  a  cause,  a  country, 
and  an  age,  requires  infinite  spaces  and  numbers  and  time  fully 

*  Centenary  ed..  Vol.  2,  pp.  109,  116,  122. 


EMERSON  89 

to   accomplish   his   thought;    and   posterity   seem  to   follow   his 
steps  as  a  procession."  * 

Through  this  any  man  has  the  power  of  all  men: 

"  Do  that  which  is  assigned  thee,  and  thou  canst  not  hope  too 
much  or  dare  too  much.  There  is  at  this  moment,  there  is  for 
me  an  utterance  bare  and  grand  as  that  of  the  colossal  chisel 
of  Phidias,  or  the  trowel  of  the  Egj'ptians,  or  the  pen  of  ]Moses, 
or  Dante,  but  different  from  all  these.  Not  possibly  will  the 
soul,  all  rich,  all  eloquent,  with  thousand-cloven  tongue,  deign 
to  repeat  itself;  but  if  I  can  hear  what  these  patriarchs  say, 
surely  I  can  reply  to  them  in  the  same  pitch  of  voice;  for  the 
ear  and  the  tongue  are  two  organs  of  one  nature.  Dwell  up 
there  in  the  simple  and  noble  regions  of  thy  life,  obey  thy 
heart,  and  thou  shalt  reproduce  the  foreworld  again." 

"  The  great  poet  makes  us  feel  our  own  wealth,  and  then  we 
think  less  of  his  compositions.  His  greatest  communication 
to  our  mind  is,  to  teach  us  to  despise  all  he  has  done.  Shak- 
speare  carries  us  to  such  a  lofty  strain  of  intelligent  activity 
as  to  suggest  a  wealth  which  beggars  his  own;  and  we  then  feel 
that  the  splendid  works  which  he  has  created,  and  which  in 
other  hours  we  extol  as  a  sort  of  self-existent  poetry,  take  no 
stronger  hold  of  real  nature  than  the  shadow  of  a  passing 
traveller  on  the  rock."  t 

Yet  he  once  says  there  is  no  progress  of  mankind; 
"  Society  never  advances." 

"  The  civilized  man  has  built  a  coach,  but  has  lost  the  use  of 
his  feet.  He  is  supported  on  crutches,  but  loses  so  much  sup- 
port of  muscle.  He  has  got  a  fine  Geneva  watch,  but  he  has 
lost  the  skill  to  teU  the  hour  by  the  sun.  A  Greenwich  nautical 
almanac  he  has,  and  so  being  sure  of  the  information  when  he 
wants  it,  the  man  in  the  street  does  not  know  a  star  in  the 
sky.  The  solstice  he  does  not  observe,  the  equinox  he  knows  as 
little;  and  the  whole  bright  calendar  of  the  year  is  without  a 
dial  in  his  mind.  His  note-books  impair  his  memory,  his 
libraries  overload  his  wit,  the  insurance  office  increases  the 
number  of  accidents;  and  it  may  be  a  question  whether  ma- 
chinery does  not  encumber,  whether  we  have  not  lost  by  refine- 
ment some  energy,   by  a   Christianity  entrenched  in  establish- 

*  Centenary   ed.,   Vol.   2,   pp.    70,   61. 
t  The  same,  Vol.  2,  pp.  83-84,  289. 


90  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ments  and  forms,  some  vigor  of  wild  virtue.     For  every  stoic 
was  a  stoic,  but  in  Christendom  where  is  the  Christian  ?  "  * 

But  this  is  an  exaggeration,  which  he  elsewhere  cor- 
rects, and  justly  says  that  the  great  men  of  the  nine- 
teenth century  will  one  day  be  quoted  to  prove  the  bar- 
barism of  their  age. 

He  teaches  an  absolute  trust  in  God: 

"  Ineffable  is  the  union  of  man  and  God  in  every  act  of  the 
soul.  The  simplest  person,  who  in  his  integrity  worships  God, 
becomes  God;  yet  for  ever  and  ever  the  influx  of  this  better 
and  universal  self  is  new  and  unsearchable.  Ever  it  inspires 
awe  and  astonishment.  .  .  .  When  we  have  broken  our  god 
of  tradition,  and  ceased  from  our  god  of  rhetoric,  then  may 
God  fire  the  heart  with  his  presence.  It  is  the  doubling  of  the 
heart  itself,  nay,  the  infinite  enlargement  of  the  heart  with  a 
power  of  growth  to  a  new  infinity  on  every  side.  It  inspires 
in  man  an  infallible  trust.  He  has  not  the  conviction,  but  the 
sight  that  the  best  is  the  true,  and  may  in  that  thought  easily 
dismiss  all  particular  uncertainties  and  fears,  and  adjourn  to 
the  sure  revelation  of  time,  the  solution  of  his  private  riddles. 
He  is  sure  that  his  welfare  is  dear  to  the  heart  of  being.  In 
the  presence  of  law  to  his  mind,  he  is  overflowed  with  a  reliance 
so  universal  that  it  sweeps  away  aU  cherished  hopes  and  the 
most  stable  projects  of  mortal  condition  in  its  flood.  He  be- 
lieves that  he  cannot  escape  from  his  good."  f 

"  In  how  many  churches,  by  how  many  prophets,  tell  me,  is 
man  made  sensible  that  he  is  an  infinite  soul;  that  the  earth  and 
heavens  are  passing  into  his  mind,  that  he  is  drinking  for  ever 
the  soul  of  God?  Where  now  sounds  the  persuasion,  that  by 
its  very  melody  imparadises  my  heart,  and  so  affirms  its  own 
origin  in  heaven?  Where  shall  I  hear  words  such  as  in  elder 
ages  drew  men  to  leave  all  and  follow  —  father  and  mother, 
house  and  land,  wife  and  child?  Where  shall  I  hear  these 
august  laws  of  moral  being  so  pronounced  as  to  fill  my  ear,  and 
I  feel  ennobled  by  the  offer  of  my  uttermost  action  and  pas- 
sion? The  test  of  the  true  faith,  certamly,  should  be  its  power 
to  charm  and  command  the  soul,  as  the  laws  of  nature  control 
the  activity  of  the  hands, —  so  commanding  that  we  find  pleas- 
ure and  honor  in  obeying.  The  faith  should  blend  with  the 
light  of  rising  and  of  setting  suns,  with  the  flying  cloud,  the 

*  Centenary  ed.,  Vol.  2,  p.  85. 
t  The  same,  Vol.  2,  pp.  292-3. 


EMERSON  91 

singing  bird,  and  the  breath  of  flowers.  But  now  the  priest's 
Sabbath  has  lost  the  splendor  of  nature,  it  is  unlovely,  we  are 
glad  when  it  is  done;  we  can  make,  we  do  make,  even  sitting  in 
our  pews,  a  far  better,  holier,  sweeter,  for  ourselves."  * 

God    continually    communicates   himself   to   man    in 
various  forms : 

"  We  distinguish  the  announcements  of  the  soul,  its  mani- 
festations of  its  own  nature,  by  the  term  Revelation.  These  are 
always  attended  by  the  emotion  of  the  sublime.  For  this  com- 
munication is  an  influx  of  the  Divine  mind  into  our  mind.  It 
is  an  ebb  of  the  individual  rivulet  before  the  flowing  surges  of 
the  sea  of  life.  Every  distinct  apprehension  of  this  central 
commandment  agitates  men  with  awe  and  delight.  A  thrill 
passes  through  all  men  at  the  reception  of  new  truth,  or  at  the 
performance  of  a  great  action,  which  comes  out  of  the  heart  of 
nature.  In  these  communications  the  power  to  see  is  not  sepa- 
rated from  the  will  to  do;  but  the  insight  proceeds  from  obe- 
dience, and  the  obedience  proceeds  from  a  joyful  perception. 
Every  moment  when  the  individual  feels  himself  invaded  by  it, 
is  memorable."  f 

"  The  nature  of  these  revelations  is  always  the  same ; 
they  are  perceptions  of  the  absolute  law." 

"  This  energy  does  not  descend  into  individual  life,  on  any 
other  condition  than  entire  possession.  It  comes  to  the  lowly 
and  simple;  it  comes  to  whomsoever  will  put  off  what  is  foreign 
and  proud;  it  comes  as  insight;  it  comes  as  serenity  and  grand- 
eur. When  we  see  those  whom  it  inhabits,  we  are  apprized  of 
new  degrees  of  greatness.  From  that  inspiration  the  man 
comes  back  with  a  changed  tone.  He  does  not  talk  with  men, 
with  an  eye  to   their   opinion.     He  tries   them.     It  requires   of 

us  to  be  plain  and  true The  soul  that  ascendeth  to 

worship  the  great  God  is  plain  and  true,  has  no  rose-color,  no 
fine  friends,  no  chivalry,  no  adventures,  does  not  want  admira- 
tion; dwells  in  the  hour  that  now  is,  in  the  earnest  experience 
of  the  common  day, —  by  reason  of  the  present  moment,  and 
the  mere  trifle  having  become  porous  to  thought,  and  bibulous 
of  the  sea  of  light." 

"  How  dear,  how  soothing  to  man,  arises  the  idea   ot   God, 

*  Centenary  ed.,  Vol.  1,  pp.  136-7. 
t  The  same.  Vol.  2,  pp.  580-1. 


92  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

peopling  the  lonely  place,   effacing  the  scars   of   our  mistakes 
and   disappointments  !  "  * 

He  says  the  same  thing  in  yet  more  rhythmic  notes: 

"  Not  from  a  vain  or  shallow  thought 
His  awful  Jove  young  Phidias  brought; 
Never  from  lips  of  cunning  fell 
The  thrilling  Delphic  oracle; 
Out  from  the  heart  of  nature  rolled 
The  burdens  of  the  Bible  old; 
The  litanies  of  nations  came, 
Like  the  volcano's  tongue  of  flame, 

Up  from  the  burning  core  below, — 

The  canticles  of  love  and  woe; 

The  hand  that  rounded  Peter's  dome, 

And  groined  the  aisles  of  Christian  Rome, 

Wrought  in  a  sad  sincerity; 

Himself  from  God  he  could  not  free; 

He  builded  better  than  he  knew; — 

The  conscious  stone  to  beauty  grew. 


"  The  passive  Master  lent  his  hand 
To  the  vast  soul  that  o'er  him  planned; 
And  the  same  power  that  reared  the  shrine 
Bestrode  the  tribes  that  knelt  within. 
Ever  the  fiery  Pentecost 
Girds  with  one  flame  the  countless  host, 
Trances  the  heart  through  chanting  choirs, 
And  through  the  priest  the  mind  inspires."  f 

If  we  put  Emerson's  conclusions  into  five  great 
classes  representing  respectively  his  idea  of  man,  of 
God,  and  of  nature ;  his  idea  of  self-rule,  the  relation 
of  man's  consciousness  to  his  unconsciousness ;  his  idea 
of  religion,  the  relation  of  men  to  God ;  of  ethics,  the 
relation  of  man  to  man ;  and  of  economy,  the  relation 
of  man  to  nature,  we  find  him  in  the  very  first  rank 
of  modern  science.     No  man  in  this  age  is  before  him. 

*  Centenary  ed..  Vol.  2,  pp.  289-290,  292. 
t  The  Problem. 


EMERSON  93 

He  demonstrates  nothing,  but  assumes  his  position  far 
in  advance  of  mankind.  This  explains  the  treatment 
he  has  met  with. 

Then  in  his  writings  there  appears  a  love  of  beauty 
in  all  its  forms  —  in  material  nature,  in  art,  litera- 
ture, and  above  all,  in  human  life.  He  finds  it  every- 
where : 

"  The  frailest  leaf,  the  mossy  bark. 
The  acorn's  cup,  the  raindrop's  arc. 
The  swinging  spider's   silver  line. 
The  ruby  of  the  drop  of  wine. 
The  shining  pebble  of  the  pond 
Thou  inscribest  with  a  bond, 
In  thy  momentary  play 
Would  bankrupt  nature  to  repay. 


"  Oft,  in  streets  or  humblest  places 
I  detect   far-wandered  graces. 
Which,  from  Eden  wide  astray. 
In  lowly  homes  have  lost  their  way."  * 

Few  men  have  had  a  keener  sense  for  this  in  com- 
mon life,  or  so  nice  an  eye  for  it  in  inanimate  nature. 
His  writings  do  not  disclose  a  very  clear  perception  of 
the  beauty  of  animated  nature ;  it  is  still  life  that  he 
describes,  in  water,  plants,  and  the  sky.  He  seldom 
refers  to  the  great  cosmic  forces  of  the  world,  that 
are  everywhere  balanced  into  such  systematic  propor- 
tions, the  perception  of  which  makes  the  writings  of 
Alexander  von  Humboldt  so  attractive  and  delightful. 

In  all  Emerson's  works  there  appears  a  sublime  con- 
fidence in  man ;  a  respect  for  human  nature  which  we 
have  never  seen  surpassed,  never  equalled.  Man  is 
only  to  be  true  to  his  nature,  to  plant  himself  on  his  in- 
stincts, and  all  will  turn  out  well: 

*  Ode  to  Beauty. 


94  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

"  Build,  therefore,  your  own  world.  As  fast  as  you  conform 
your  life  to  the  pure  idea  in  your  mind,  that  will  unfold  its 
great  proportions.  A  correspondent  revolution  in  things  will 
attend  the  influx  of  the  spirit.  So  fast  will  disagreeable  ap- 
pearances,—  swine,  spiders,  snakes,  pests,  mad-houses,  prisons, 
enemies,  vanish;  they  are  temporary  and  shall  be  no  more  seen. 
The  sordor  and  filths  of  nature  the  sun  shall  dry  up,  and  the 
wind  exhale.  As  when  the  summer  comes  from  the  south  the 
snow-banks  melt,  and  the  face  of  the  earth  becomes  green 
before  it,  so  shall  the  advancing  spirit  create  its  ornaments 
along  its  path,  and  carry  with  it  the  beauty  it  visits,  and  the 
song  which  enchants  it;  it  shall  draw  beautiful  faces,  and  warm 
hearts,  and  wise  discourse,  and  heroic  acts  around  its  way, 
until  evil  is  no  more  seen.  The  kingdom  of  man  over  nature, 
which  Cometh  not  with  observation, —  a  dominion  such  as  now 
is  beyond  his  dream  of  God, —  he  shall  enter  without  more 
wonder  than  the  blind  man  feels  who  is  gradually  restored  to 
perfect  sight."  * 

"  Foolish  hands  may  mix  and  mar. 
Wise  and  sure  the  issues  are." 

He  has  also  an  absolute  confidence  in  God.  He  has 
been  foolishly  accused  of  pantheism,  which  sinks  God  in 
nature ;  but  no  man  is  further  from  it.  He  never  sinks 
God  in  man,  he  does  not  stop  with  the  law,  in  matter  or 
morals,  but  goes  back  to  the  Lawgiver ;  yet  probably  it 
would  not  be  so  easy  for  him  to'  give  his  definition  of 
God  as  it  would  be  for  most  graduates  at  Andover  or 
Cambridge.  With  this  confidence  in  God  he  looks 
things  fairly  in  the  face,  and  never  dodges,  never  fears. 
Toil,  sorrow,  pain, —  these  are  things  which  it  is  im- 
pious to  fear.  Boldly  he  faces  every  fact,  never  re- 
treating behind  an  institution  or  a  great  man.  In 
God  his  trust  is  complete ;  with  the  severest  scrutiny  he 
joins  the  highest  reverence. 

Hence  come  his  calmness  and  serenity.  He  is  evenly 
balanced  and  at  repose.     A  more  tranquil  spirit  can- 

*  Centenary  ed,,  Vol.  1,  pp.  76-77. 


EMERSON  95 

not  be  found  in  literature.  Nothing  seems  to  fret  or 
jar  him,  and  all  the  tosslngs  of  the  literary  world 
never  jostle  him  into  anger  or  impatience.  He  goes 
on  like  the  stars  above  the  noise  and  dust  of  earth, 
as  calm  yet  not  so  cold.  No  man  says  things  more 
terribly  severe  than  he  on  many  occasions ;  few  In 
America  have  encountered  such  abuse,  but  In  all  his 
writings  there  is  not  a  line  which  can  be  referred  to 
ill-will.  Impudence  and  terror  are  wasted  on  him ; 
"  upstart  wealth's  averted  eye,"  which  blasts  the  hope 
of  the  politlcan,  is  powerless  on  him  as  on  the  piles  of 
granite  in  New  Hampshire  hills.  Misconceived  and 
misreported,  he  does  not  wait  to  "  unravel  any  man's 
blunders ;  he  is  again  on  his  road,  adding  new  powers 
and  honors  to  his  domain,  and  new  claims  on  the 
heart."  He  takes  no  notice  of  the  criticism  from 
which  nothing  but  warning  Is  to  be  had,  warning 
against  bigotry  and  Impudence ;  and  goes  on  his  way, 
his  only  answer  a  creative  act.  Many  shafts  has  he 
shot,  not  an  arrow  in  self-defence ;  not  a  line  betrays 
that  he  has  been  treated  ill.  This  Is  small  praise, 
but  rare ;  even  cool  egotistic  Goethe  treated  his  "  Philis- 
tine "  critics  with  haughty  scorn,  comparing  them  to 
dogs  who  bark  in  the  court-yard  when  the  master 
mounts  to  ride: 

"Es  will  der  Spitz  aus  unserm  Stall 
Mit  Bellen  uns  begleiten; 
Allein   der   Hundes   lauter    SchaU 
Beweist  nur  dass  wir  reiten." 

He  lacks  the  power  of  orderly  arrangements  to  a 
remarkable  degree.  Not  only  is  there  no  obvious 
logical  order,  but  there  is  no  subtle  psychological 
method  by  which  the  several  parts  of  an  essay  are 
joined  together;  his   deep  sayings  are  jewels  strung 


96  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

wholly  at  random.  This  often  confuses  the  reader; 
this  want  appears  the  greatest  defect  of  his  mind.  Of 
late  years  there  has  been  a  marked  effort  to  correct 
it,  and  in  regard  to  mere  order  there  is  certainly  a 
great  improvement  in  the  first  series  of  Essays  on 
Nature,  or  rather  formless  book. 

Then  he  is  not  creative  like  Shakspeare  and  Goethe, 
perhaps  not  inventive  like  many  far  inferior  men ;  he 
seldom  or  never  undertakes  to  prove  anything.  He 
tells  what  he  sees,  seeing  things  by  glimpses,  not  by 
steady  and  continuous  looking,  he  often  fails  of  seeing 
the  whole  ob j  ect ;  he  does  not  always  see  all  of  its 
relations  with  other  things.  Hence  comes  an  oc- 
casional exaggeration.  But  this  is  commonly  corrected 
by  some  subsequent  statement.  Thus  he  has  seen 
books  imprison  many  a  youth,  and  speaking  to  men, 
desirous  of  warning  them  of  their  danger,  he  under- 
values the  worth  of  books  themselves.  But  the  use  he 
makes  of  them  in  his  own  writings  shows  that  this 
statement  was  an  exaggeration  which  his  practical 
judgment  disapproves.  Speaking  to  men  whose  chief 
danger  was  that  they  should  be  bookworms,  or  me- 
chanical grinders  at  a  logic-mill,  he  says  that  ecstasy 
is  the  method  of  nature,  but  himself  never  utters  any- 
thing "  poor  and  extemporaneous ;"  what  he  gets  in  his 
ecstatic  moments  of  inspiration  he  examines  carefully 
in  his  cool,  reflective  hours,  and  it  is  printed  as  re- 
flection, never  as  the  simple  result  of  ecstatic  inspira- 
tion, having  not  only  the  stamp  of  Divine  truth,  but 
the  private  mark  of  Emerson.  He  is  never  demonized 
by  his  enthusiasm ;  he  possesses  the  spirit,  it  never  pos- 
sesses him ;  if  "  the  God  "  comes  into  his  rapt  soul 
"  without  bell,"  it  is  only  with  due  consideration  that 
he  communicates  to  the  world  the  message  that  was 


EMERSON  97 

brought.  Still  he  must  regret  that  his  extravagant 
estimate  of  ecstasy,  intuitive  unconsciousness,  has  been 
made  and  has  led  some  youths  and  maids  astray. 

This  mode  of  looking  at  things,  and  this  want  of 
logical  order,  make  him  appear  inconsistent.  There 
are  actual  and  obvious  contradictions  in  his  works. 
"  Two  sons  of  Priam  in  one  chariot  ride."  Now  he 
is  all  generosity  and  nobleness,  shining  like  the  sun 
on  things  mean  and  low,  and  then  he  says,  with  a 
good  deal  of  truth  but  some  exaggeration: 

"  Do  not  tell  me  of  my  obligation  to  put  all  poor  men  in 
good  situations.  Are  they  my  poor?  I  teU  thee,  thou  foolish 
philanthropist,  that  I  grudge  the  dollar,  the  dime,  the  cent  I 
give  to  such  men  as  do  not  belong  to  me  and  to  whom  I  do  not 
belong.  There  is  a  class  of  persons  to  whom  by  all  spiritual 
affinity  I  am  bought  and  sold;  for  them  I  will  go  to  prison,  if 
need  be;  but  your  miscellaneous  popular  charities;  the  educa- 
tion at  college  of  fools;  the  building  of  meeting-houses  to  the 
vain  end  to  which  many  now  stand,  alms  to  sots,  and  the  thou- 
sandfold Relief  Societies;  though  I  confess  with  shame  I  some- 
times succumb  and  give  the  dollar,  it  is  a  wicked  dollar  which 
by-and-by  I  shall  have  the  manhood  to  withhold." 

Thus  a  certain  twofoldness  appears  in  his  writings 
here  and  there,  but  take  them  all  together  they  form 
a  whole  of  marvellous  consistency ;  take  them  in  con- 
nection with  his  private  character  and  life,  we  may 
challenge  the  world  to  furnish  an  example  of  a  fairer 
and  more  consistent  whole. 

With  the  exceptions  above  stated  there  is  a  re- 
markable balance  of  intellectual  faculties,  of  creative 
and  conservative,  of  the  spontaneous  and  intuitive,  and 
the  voluntary  and  reflective  powers.  He  is  a  slave  to 
neither,  all  are  balanced  into  lovely  proportions  and 
intellectual  harmony.  In  many  things  Goethe  iz 
superior  to  Emerson  —  in  fertility  of  invention,  in  a 

wide   acquaintance   with   men,   in   that   intuitive   per- 
il—7 


98  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ception  of  character  which  seems  an  instinct  in  some 
men,  in  regular  discipHne  of  the  understanding,  in 
hterary  and  artistic  culture ;  but  in  general  harmony 
of  the  intellectual  powers,  and  the  steadiness  of  pur- 
pose which  comes  thereof,  Emerson  is  incontestably 
the  superior  even  of  the  many-sided  Goethe.  He  never 
wastes  his  time  on  trifles ;  he  is  too  heavily  fraught, 
and  lies  so  deep  in  the  sea  that  a  little  flaw  of  wind 
never  drives  him  from  his  course.  If  we  go  a  little 
further  and  inquire  how  the  other  qualities  are  blended 
with  the  intellectual,  we  find  that  the  moral  power 
a  little  outweighs  the  intellectual,  and  the  religious 
is  a  little  before  the  moral,  as  it  should  be,  but  the 
aff^ections  seem  to  be  less  developed  than  the  intellect. 
There  is  no  total  balance  of  all  the  faculties  to  cor- 
respond with  the  harmony  of  his  intellectual  powers. 
This  seems  to  us  the  greatest  defect  in  his  entire  being, 
as  lack  of  logical  power  is  the  chief  defect  in  his  intel- 
lect ;  there  is  love  enough  for  almost  any  man,  not 
enough  to  balance  his  intellect,  his  conscience,  and  his 
faith  in  God.  Hence  there  appears  a  certain  coldness 
in  his  ethics.  He  is  a  man  running  alone,  and  would 
lead  others  to  isolation,  not  society.  Nothwithstanding 
his  own  intense  individuality  and  his  theoretic  and 
practical  respect  for  individuality,  still  persons  seem 
of  small  value  to  him,  of  little  value  except  as  they 
represent  or  help  develop  an  idea  of  the  intellect. 
In  this  respect  in  his  writings  he  is  one-sided,  and  while 
no  one  mental  power  has  subdued  another,  yet  his 
intellect  and  conscience  seem  to  enslave  and  belittle  the 
aff'ections.  Yet  he  never  goes  so  far  in  this  as  Goethe, 
who  used  men,  and  women  too,  as  cattle  to  ride,  as 
food  to  eat.  In  Emerson's  religious  writings  there 
appears  a  worship  of  the  infinite  God  far  transcending 


EMERSON  99 

all  we  find  in  Taylor  or  Edwards,  in  Fenelon  or  Chan- 
ning ;  it  is  reverence,  it  is  trust,  the  worship  of  the 
conscience,  of  the  intellect ;  it  is  obedience,  the  worship 
of  the  will;  it  is  not  love,  the  worship  of  the  affec- 
tions. 

No  writer  in  our  language  is  more  rich  in  ideas, 
none  more  suggestive  of  noble  thought  and  noble  life. 
We  will  select  the  axioms  which  occur  in  a  single 
essay,  which  we  take  at  random,  that  on  Self-re- 
Kance : 

"  It  needs  a  divine  man  to  exhibit  anything  divine." 

"  Nothing  is  at  last  sacred  but  the  integrity  of  your  own 
mind." 

"  The  virtue  most  in  request  is  conformity.  Self-reliance  is 
its  aversion." 

"  No  law  can  be  sacred  to  me  but  that  of  my  nature,  the 
only  wrong  what  is  against  it." 

"  Truth  is  handsomer  than  the  affectation  of  love." 

"  Your  goodness  must  have  some  edge  to  it." 

"  Do  your  worli  and  you  shall  reinforce  yourself." 

"  A  foolish  consistency  is  the  hobgoblin  of  little  minds." 

"  To   be   great  is  to  be  misunderstood." 

"  Character  teaches  above  our  wills." 

"  Greatness  always  appeals  to  the  future." 

"  The  centuries  are  conspirators  against  the  sanity  and 
majesty  of  the  soul." 

"If  we  live  truly  we  shall  see  truly." 

"  It  is  as  easy  for  the  strong  to  be  strong  as  it  is  for  the 
weak  to  be  weak." 

"  When  a  man  lives  with  God  his  voice  shall  be  as  sweet  as 
the  murmur  of  the  brook  and  the  rustle  of  the  corn."' 

"  Virtue  is  the  governor." 

"  Welcome  evermore  to  gods  and  men  is  the  self-helping 
man." 

"  Duty  is  our  place,  and  the  merry  men  of  circumstance 
should  follow  as  they  may." 

"  My  giant  goes  with  me  wherever  I  go." 

"  It  was  in  his  own  mind  that  the  artist  sought  his  model." 

"  That  which  each  can  do  best  none  but  his  Maker  can  teach 
him." 

**  Every  great  man  is  an  imique." 


100  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

"  Nothing  can  bring  you  peace  but  the  triumph  of  princi- 
ples." 

His  works  abound  also  with  the  most  genial  wit ;  he 
clearly  sees  and  sharply  states  the  halfnesses  of  things 
and  men,  but  his  wit  is  never  coarse,  and  wholly  with- 
out that  grain  of  malice  so  often  the  accompaniment 
thereof. 

Let  us  now  say  a  word  of  the  artistic  style  and 
rhetorical  form  of  these  remarkable  books.  Mr. 
Emerson  always  gravitates  towards  first  principles, 
but  never  sets  them  in  a  row,  groups  them  into  a 
system,  or  makes  of  them  a  whole.  Hence  the  form  of 
all  his  prose  writings  is  very  defective,  and  much  of 
his  rare  power  is  lost.  He  never  fires  by  companies, 
nor  even  by  platoons,  only  man  by  man ;  nay,  his 
soldiers  are  never  ranked  into  line,  but  stand  scat- 
tered, sundered  and  individual,  each  serving  on  his 
own  account,  and  "  fighting  on  his  own  hook."  Things 
are  huddled  and  lumped  together ;  diamonds,  pearls, 
bits  of  chalk  and  cranberries,  tlirown  pell-mell  to- 
gether.    You  can 

"  No   joints   and   no   contexture  find, 
Nor  their  loose  parts  to  any  method  bring." 

Here  is  a  specimen  of  the  Lucretian  "  fortuitous  con- 
course of  atoms,"  for  things  are  joined  by  a  casual 
connection,  or  else  by  mere  caprice.  This  is  so  in  the 
Orations,  which  were  designed  to  be  heard,  not  read, 
where  order  is  the  more  needful.  His  separate 
thoughts  are  each  a  growth.  Now  and  then  it  is  so 
with  a  sentence,  seldom  with  a  paragraph ;  but  his 
essay  is  always  a  piece  of  composition,  carpentry,  and 
not  growth. 

Take   any   one   of   his   volumes,   the   first   series   of 


EMERSON  101 

Essays,  for  example,  the  book  does  not  make  an  or- 
ganic whole  by  itself,  and  so  produce  a  certain  totality 
of  impression.  The  separate  essays  are  not  arranged 
with  reference  to  any  progress  in  the  reader's  mind, 
or  any  consecutive  development  of  the  author's  ideas. 
Here  are  the  titles  of  the  several  papers  in  their  present 
order : —  History,  Self -Reliance,  Compensation,  Spirit- 
ual Laws,  Love,  Friendship,  Prudence,  Heroism,  The 
Over-Soul,  Circles,  Intellect,  Art.  In  each  essay  there 
is  the  same  want  of  organic  completeness  and  orderly 
distribution  of  the  parts.  There  is  no  logical  arrange- 
ment of  the  separate  thoughts,  which  are  subordinate 
to  the  main  idea  of  the  piece.  They  are  shot  to- 
gether into  a  curious  and  disorderly  mass  of  beauty, 
like  the  colors  in  a  kaleidoscope,  not  laid  together  like 
the  gems  in  a  collection ;  still  less  grown  into  a  whole 
like  the  parts  of  a  rose,  where  beauty  of  form,  frag- 
rance, and  color  make  up  one  whole  of  loveliness. 
The  lines  he  draws  do  not  converge  to  one  point ; 
there  is  no  progress  in  his  drama.  Towards  the  end 
the  interest  deepens,  not  from  an  artistic  arrangement 
of  accumulated  thoughts,  but  only  because  the  author 
finds  his  heart  warmed  by  his  efforts,  and  beating 
quicker.  Some  artists  produce  their  effect  almost 
wholly  by  form  and  outline,  they  sculpture  with  their 
pencil,  the  Parcse  of  Michael  Angelo  is  an  example ;  so 
some  writers  discipline  their  pupils  by  the  severity  of 
their  intellectual  method  and  scientific  forms  of 
thought.  Other  artists  have  we  known  produce  the 
effect  almost  wholly  by  their  coloring;  the  drawing 
was  bad,  but  the  color  of  lip  and  eye,  of  neck  and 
cheek  and  hair,  was  perfect ;  the  likeness  all  men  saw, 
and  felt  the  impression.  But  the  perfect  artist  will 
be  true  to  both,  will  keep  the  forms  of  things,  and 


102  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

only  clothe  them  with  appropriate  hues.  We  know 
some  say  that  order  belongs  not  to  poetic  minds,  but 
the  saying  is  false.  In  all  Milton's  high  poetic  works 
the  form  is  perfect  as  the  coloring ;  this  appears  in  the 
grouping  of  the  grand  divisions  of  the  Paradise  Lost, 
and  in  the  arrangement  of  the  smallest  details  in 
L' Allegro  and  II  Penseroso,  and  then  the  appropriate 
hue  of  morning,  of  mid-day,  or  of  night  is  thrown 
upon  the  whole. 

His  love  of  individuality  has  unconsciously  deprived 
him  of  the  grace  of  order ;  his  orations  or  essays  are 
like  a  natural  field ;  here  is  common  grass,  only  with 
him  not  half  so  common  as  wild  roses  and  violets,  for 
his  common  grasses  are  flowers  —  and  then  rocks,  then 
trees,  brambles,  thorns,  now  flowers,  now  weeds,  here 
a  decaying  log  with  raspberry-bushes  on  the  one  side 
and  strawberry-vines  on  the  other,  and  potentillas 
creeping  among  them  all.  There  are  emmets  and 
wood-worms,  earth-worms,  slugs,  grass-hoppers,  and, 
more  obvious,  sheep  and  oxen,  and  above  and  about 
them,  the  brown  thrasher,  the  hen-hawk,  and  the  crow, 
making  a  scene  of  beautiful  and  intricate  confusion 
which  belongs  to  nature,  not  to  human  art. 

His  marked  love  of  individuality  appears  in  his 
style.  His  thoughts  are  seldom  vague,  all  is  distinct ; 
the  outlines  are  sharply  drawn,  things  are  always  dis- 
crete from  one  another.  He  loves  to  particularize. 
He  talks  not  of  flowers,  but  of  the  violet,  the  clover, 
the  cowslip  and  anemone;  not  of  birds,  but  the  nut- 
hatch, and  the  wren ;  not  of  insects,  but  of  the  Volvex 
Globator ;  not  of  men  and  maids,  but  of  Adam,  John, 
and  Jane.  Things  are  kept  from  things,  each  sur- 
rounded by  its  own  atmosphere.  This  gives  great 
distinctness  and  animation  to  his  works,  though  lat- 


EMERSON  103 

terly  he  seems  to  Imitate  himself  a  little  in  this  respect. 
It  is  remarkable  to  what  an  extent  this  individual- 
ization is  carried.  The  essays  in  his  books  are  sep- 
'arate,  and  stand  apart  from  one  another,  only  me- 
chanically bound  by  the  lids  of  the  volume ;  his  para- 
graphs in  each  essay  are  distinct  and  disconnected  or 
but  loosely  bound  to  one  another,  it  is  so  with  sentences 
in  the  paragraph,  and  propositions  in  the  sentence. 
Take  for  example  his  essay  on  Experience ;  it  is  dis- 
tributed into  seven  parts,  which  treat  respectively  of 
illusion,  temperament,  succession,  surface,  surprise, 
reality,  and  subjectiveness.  These  seven  brigadiers 
are  put  in  one  army  with  as  little  unity  of  action  as 
any  seven  Mexican  officers;  not  subject  to  one  head, 
nor  fighting  on  the  same  side.  The  subordinates  under 
these  generals  are  in  no  better  order  and  discipline, 
sometimes  the  corporal  commands  the  king.  But  this 
very  lack  of  order  gives  variety  of  form.  You  can 
never  anticipate  him.  One  half  of  the  essay  never 
suggests  the  rest.  If  he  have  no  order,  he  never  sets 
his  method  a  going,  and  himself  with  his  audience 
goes  to  sleep,  trusting  that  he,  the}^,  and  the  logical 
conclusion  will  all  come  out  alive  and  waking  at  the 
last.  He  trusts  nothing  to  the  discipline  of  his  camp ; 
all  to  the  fidelity  of  the  individual  soldiers. 

His  style  is  one  of  the  rarest  beauty ;  there  is  no 
effectation,  no  conceit,  no  effort  at  effect.  He  alludes 
to  everybody  and  imitates  nobody.  No  writer  that 
we  remember,  except  Jean  Paul  Richter,  is  so  rich  in 
beautiful  imagery ;  there  are  no  blank  walls  in  his 
building.  But  Richter's  temple  of  poesy  is  a  Hindoo 
pagoda, —  rich,  elaborate,  of  costly  stone,  adorned 
with  costly  work,  but  as  a  whole,  rather  grotesque 
than   sublime,    and   more   queer   than   beautiful;   you 


104  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

V,  onder  how  any  one  could  have  brought  such  wealth 
together,  and  still  more  that  any  one  could  combine 
things  so  oddly  together.  Emerson  builds  a  rambling 
Gothic  church  with  an  irregular  outline,  a  chapel  here, 
and  a  tower  there,  you  do  not  see  why ;  but  all  parts 
are  beautiful,  and  the  whole  constrains  the  soul  to 
love  and  trust.  His  manifold  images  come  from  his 
own  sight,  not  from  the  testimony  of  other  men.  His 
words  are  pictures  of  the  things  daguerreotyped  from 
nature.  Like  Homer,  Aristotle,  and  Tacitus,  he  de- 
scribes the  thing,  and  not  the  effect  of  the  thing.  This 
quality  he  has  in  common  with  the  great  writers  of 
classic  antiquity,  while  his  wealth  of  sentiment  puts 
him  with  the  classics  of  m-odern  times.  Like  Burke 
he  lays  all  literature  under  contribution,  and  presses 
the  facts  of  every-day  life  into  his  service.  He  seems 
to  keep  the  sun  and  moon  as  his  retainers,  and  levy 
black-mail  on  the  cricket  and  the  titmouse,  on  the 
dawdling  preacher  and  the  snow-storm  which  seemed 
to  rebuke  his  unnatural  whine.  His  works  teem  with 
beauty.     Take  for  example  this : 

"  What  do  we  wish  to  know  of  any  worthy  person  so  much  as 
how  he  has  sped  in  the  history  of  this  sentiment?  [Love.]  What 
books  in  the  circulating  libraries  circulate?  How  we  glow  over 
these  novels  of  passion  when  the  story  is  told  with  any  spark  of 
truth  and  nature !  And  what  fastens  attention  in  the  inter- 
course of  life  like  any  passion  betraying  affection  between  two 
parties?  Perhaps  we  never  saw  them  before,  and  never  shall 
meet  them  again.  But  we  see  them  exchange  a  glance,  or  be- 
tray a  deep  emotion,  and  we  are  no  longer  strangers.  We  un- 
derstand them,  and  take  the  warmest  interest  in  the  develop- 
ment of  the  romance.  All  mankind  love  a  lover.  The  earliest 
demonstrations  of  complacency  and  kindness  are  nature's  most 
winning  pictures.  It  is  the  dawn  of  civility  and  grace  in  the 
coarse  and  rustic.  The  rude  village  boy  teases  the  girls  about 
the  school-house  door;  but  to-day  he  comes  running  into  the 
entry,  and  meets  one  fair  child  arranging  her  satchel,  he  holds 
her  books  to  help  her,  and  instantly  it  seems  to  him  as  if  she 


EMERSON  105 

removed  herself  from  him  infinitely,  and  was  a  sacred  precinct. 
Among  the  throng  of  girls  he  runs  rudely  enough,  but  one 
alone  distances  him:  and  these  two  little  neighbors  that  were 
so  close  just  now  have  learnt  to  respect  each  other's  person- 
ality. Or  who  can  avert  his  eyes  from  the  engaging,  half-artful, 
half -artless  ways  of  school  girls  who  go  into  the  countrj'  shops 
to  buy  a  skein  of  silk  or  a  sheet  of  paper,  and  talk  half  an 
hour  about  nothing  with  the  broad-faced,  good-natured  shop- 
boy.  In  the  village  they  are  on  a  perfect  equality,  which  love 
delights  in,  and  without  any  coquetry  the  happy,  affectionate 
nature  of  woman  flows  out  in  this  pretty  gossip.  The  girls  may 
have  little  beauty,  yet  plainly  do  they  establish  between  them 
and  the  good  boy  the  most  agreeable,  confiding  relations,  what 
with  their  fun  and  their  earnest,  about  Edgar,  and  Jonas,  and 
Almira,  and  who  was  invited  to  the  party,  and  who  danced  at 
the  dancing-school,  and  when  the  singing-school  would  begin, 
and  other  nothings  concerning  which  the  parties  cooed.  By- 
and-by  that  boy  wants  a  wife,  and  very  truly  and  heartily  will 
he  know  where  to  find  a  sincere  and  sweet  mate,  without  any 
risk  such  as  ]\Iilton  deplores  as  incident  to  scholars  and  great 
men." 

"  The  passion  re-makes  the  world  for  the  youth.  It  makes  all 
things  alive  and  significant.  Nature  grows  conscious.  Every 
bird  on  the  boughs  of  the  tree  sings  now  to  his  heart  and  soul. 
Almost  the  notes  are  articulate.  The  clouds  have  faces  as  he 
looks  on  them.  The  trees  of  the  forest,  the  waving  grass  and 
the  peeping  flowers  have  grown  intelligent;  and  almost  he  fears 
to  trust  them  with  the  secret  which  they  seem  to  invite.  Yet 
nature  soothes  and  sjTnpathizes.  In  the  green  solitude  he  finds 
a  dearer  home  than  with  men." 

"  Behold  there  in  the  wood  the  fine  madman !  He  is  a  palace 
of  sweet  sounds  and  sights,  he  dilates,  he  is  twice  a  man,  he 
walks  with  arms  akimbo,  he  soliloquizes,  he  accosts  the  grass 
and  the  trees;  he  feels  the  blood  of  the  violet,  the  clover,  and 
the  lily  in  his  veins,  and  he  talks  with  the  brook  that  wets  his 
foot." 

Emerson  is  a  great  master  of  language ;  therewith 
he  sculptures,  therewith  he  paints ;  he  thunders  and 
lightens  in  his  speech,  and  in  his  speech  also  he  sings. 
In  Greece,  Plato  and  Aristophanes  were  mighty  mast- 
ers of  the  pen,  and  have  not  left  their  equals  in  ancient 
literary  art ;  so  in  Rome  were  Virgil  and  Tacitus ;  four 


106  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

men  so  marked  in  individuality,  so  unlike  and  withal 
so  skilful  in  the  use  of  speech,  it  were  not  easy  to 
find ;  four  mighty  masters  of  the  art  to  write.  In 
later  times  there  have  been  in  England  Shakespeare, 
Bacon,  Milton,  Taylor,  Swift,  and  Carlyle ;  on  the 
Continent,  Voltaire,  Rousseau,  and  Goethe ;  all  masters 
in  this  art,  skilful  to  work  in  human  speech.  Each  of 
them  possessed  some  qualities  which  Emerson  has  not. 
In  Bacon,  Milton,  and  Carlyle,  there  is  a  majesty,  a 
dignity  and  giant  strength,  not  to  be  claimed  for  him. 
Yet  separating  the  beautiful  from  what  men  call  sub- 
lime, no  one  of  all  that  we  have  named,  ancient  or 
modern,  has  passages  so  beautiful  as  he.  From  what 
is  called  sublime  if  we  separate  what  is  simply  vast,  or 
merely  grand,  or  only  wide,  it  is  in  vain  that  we  seek 
in  all  those  men  for  anything  to  rival  Emerson. 

Take  the  following  passage,  and  it  is  not  possible, 
we  think,  to  find  its  equal  for  the  beautiful  and  the 
sublime  in  any  tongue: 

"  The  lovers  delight  in  endearments,  in  avowals  of  love,  in 
comparisons  of  their  regards.  When  alone,  they  solace  them- 
selves with  the  remembered  image  of  the  other.  Does  that 
other  see  the  same  star,  the  same  melting  cloud,  read  the  same 
book,  feel  the  same  emotion  that  now  delight  me?  They  try 
and  weigh  their  affection,  and  adding  up  all  costly  advantages, — 
friends,  opportunities,  properties,  exult  in  discovering  that  will- 
ingly, joyfully,  they  would  give  all  as  a  ransom  for  the  beau- 
tiful, the  beloved  head,  not  one  hair  of  which  shall  be  harmed. 
But  the  lot  of  humanity  is  on  these  children.  Danger,  sor- 
row, and  pain  arrive  to  them  as  to  all.  Love  prays.  It  makes 
covenants  with  Eternal  Power,  in  behalf  of  this  dear  mate. 
The  union  which  is  thus  effected,  and  which  adds  a  new  value 
to  every  atom  in  nature,  for  it  transmutes  every  thread 
throughout  the  whole  web  of  relation  into  a  golden  ray,  and 
bathes  the  soul  in  a  new  and  sweeter  element,  is  yet  a  tempo- 
rary state.  Not  always  can  flowers,  pearls,  poetry,  protesta- 
tions, nor  even  home  in  another  heart,  content  the  awful  soul 
that  dwells   in  clay.     It   arouses  itself  at  last   from  these  en- 


EMERSON  107 

dearments  as  toys,  and .  puts  on  the  harness,  and  aspires  to 
vast  and  universal  aims.  The  soul  which  is  in  the  soul  of  each, 
craving  for  a  perfect  beatitude,  detects  incongruities,  defects, 
and  disproportion  in  the  behavior  of  the  other.  Hence  arise 
surprise,  expostulation,  and  pain.  Yet  that  which  drew  them 
to  each  other  was  signs  of  loveliness,  signs  of  virtue;  and  these 
virtues  are  there,  however  eclipsed.  They  appear  and  reappear, 
and  continue  to  attract;  but  the  regard  changes,  quits  the  sign, 
and  attaches  to  the  substance.  This  repairs  the  wounded  af- 
fection. Meantime,  as  life  wears  on,  it  proves  a  game  of  per- 
mutation and  combination  of  all  possible  positions  of  the  par- 
ties, to  extort  all  the  resources  of  each,  and  acquaint  each  with 
the  whole  strength  and  weakness  of  the  other.  For  it  is  the 
nature  and  end  of  this  relation,  that  they  should  represent  the 
human  race  to  each  other.  All  that  is  in  the  world  which  is  or 
ought  to  be  known  is  cunningly  wrought  into  the  texture  of 
man,  of  woman. 

"  The  person  love  does  to  us  fit. 
Like  manna,  has  the  taste  of  aU  in  it." 

"  The  world  rolls,  the  circumstances  vary  every  hour.  All  the 
angels  that  inhabit  this  temple  of  the  body  appear  at  the  win- 
dows, and  all  the  gnomes  and  vices  also.  By  all  the  virtues  they 
are  united.  If  there  be  virtue,  all  the  vices  are  known  as  such; 
they  confess  and  flee.  Their  once  flaming  regard  is  sobered  by 
time  in  either  breast,  and  losing  in  violence  what  it  gains  in 
extent,  it  becomes  a  thorough  good  understanding.  They  re- 
sign each  other  without  complaint  to  the  good  oflBces  which 
jnan  and  woman  are  severally  appointed  to  discharge  in  time, 
and  exchange  the  passion  which  once  could  not  lose  sight  of  its 
object  for  a  cheerful  disengaged  furtherance,  whether  present 
or  absent,  of  each  other's  designs.  At  last  they  discover  that 
all  which  at  first  drew  them  together, —  those  once  sacred 
features,  that  magical  play  of  charms,  was  deciduous,  had  a 
prospective  end,  like  the  scafi'olding  by  which  the  house  was 
built;  and  the  purification  of  the  intellect  and  the  heart,  from 
year  to  year,  is  the  real  marriage,  foreseen  and  prepared  from 
the  first,  and  wholly  above  their  consciousness.  Looking  at  these 
aims  with  which  two  persons,  a  man  and  a  woman,  so  variously 
and  correlatively  gifted,  are  shut  up  in  one  house  to  spend  in 
the  nuptial  society  forty  or  fifty  years,  I  do  not  wonder  at 
the  emphasis  with  which  the  heart  prophesies  this  crisis  from 
early  infancy,  at  the  profuse  beauty  with  which  the  instincts 
deck  the  nuptial  bower,  and  nature  and  intellect  and  art  emu- 


108  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

late  each  other  in  the  gifts  and  the  melody  they  bring  to  the 
epithalamium. 

"  Thus  are  we  put  in  training  for  a  love  which  knows  not  sex, 
nor  person,  nor  partiality,  but  which  seeketh  virtue  and  wisdom 
everywhere,  to  the  end  of  increasing  virtue  and  wisdom.  We 
are  by  nature  observers,  and  thereby  learners.  That  is  our  per- 
manent state.  But  we  are  often  made  to  feel  that  our  af- 
fections are  but  tents  of  a  night.  Though  slowly  and  with  pain, 
the  objects  of  the  affections  change,  as  the  objects  of  thought 
do.  There  are  moments  when  the  affections  rule  and  absorb 
the  man,  and  make  his  happiness  dependent  on  a  person  or 
persons.  But  in  health  the  mind  is  presently  seen  again,  its 
overarching  vault,  bright  with  galaxies  of  immutable  lights, 
and  the  warm  loves  and  fears  that  swept  over  us  as  clouds, 
must  lose  their  finite  character,  and  blend  with  God  to  attain 
their  own  perfection.  But  we  need  not  fear  that  we  can  lose 
anything  by  the  progress  of  the  soul.  The  soul  may  be  trusted 
to  the  end.  That  which  is  so  beautiful  and  attractive  as  these 
relations  must  be  succeeded  and  supplanted  only  by  what  is 
more  beautiful,  and  so  on  for  ever." 

We  can  now  only  glance  at  the  separate  works 
named  above.  His  nature  is  more  defective  in  form 
than  any  of  his  pieces,  but  rich  in  beauty ;  a  rare 
prose  poem  is  it,  a  book  for  one's  bosom.  The  first 
series  of  Essays  contains  the  fairest  blossoms  and 
fruits  of  his  genius.  Here  his  wondrous  mind  reveals 
itself  in  its  purity,  its  simplicity,  its  strength,  and  its 
beauty  too.  The  second  series  of  Essays  is  inferior 
to  the  first ;  the  style  is  perhaps  clearer,  but  the  water 
is  not  so  deep.  He  seems  to  let  himself  down  to  the 
capacity  of  his  hearers.  Yet  there  is  an  attempt  at 
order  which  is  seldom  successful,  and  reminds  one  of 
the  order  in  which  figures  are  tattooed  upon  the  skin 
of  a  South  Sea  Islander,  rather  than  of  the  organic 
symmetry  of  limbs  or  bones.  He  sets  up  a  scaffold, 
not  a  living  tree,  a  scaffold,  too,  on  which  none  but 
himself  can  walk. 

Some  of  his  Orations  and  Addresses  are  noble  ef- 


EMERSON  109 

forts ;  old  as  the  world  is,  and  much  and  long  as  men 
are  given  to  speak,  it  is  but  rare  in  human  history 
that  such  Sermons  on  the  Mount  get  spoken  as  the 
Address  to  the  Students  of  Theology,  and  that  before 
the  Phi  Beta  Kappa  at  Cambridge.  They  are  words 
of  lofty  cheer. 

The  last  book,  on  "  Representative  Men,"  does  not 
come  up  to  the  first  Essays,  neither  in  matter  nor  in 
manner.  Yet  we  know  not  a  man,  living  and  speaking 
English,  that  could  have  written  one  so  good.  The 
lecture  on  Plato  contains  exaggerations  not  usual 
with  Emerson ;  it  fails  to  describe  the  man  by  genus  or 
species.  He  gives  you  neither  the  principles  nor  the 
method  of  Plato,  not  even  his  conclusions.  Nay,  he 
does  not  give  you  the  specimens  to  judge  by.  The 
article  in  the  last  classical  dictionary  or  the  History 
of  Philosophy  for  the  French  Normal  Schools  gives 
you  a  better  account  of  the  philosopher  and  the  man. 
The  lecture  on  Swedenborg  is  a  masterly  appreciation 
of  that  great  man,  and  to  our  way  of  thinking  the 
best  criticism  that  has  yet  appeared.  He  appreciates 
but  does  not  exaggerate  him.  The  same  may  be  said 
of  that  upon  Montaigne;  those  on  Shakspeare  and 
Goethe  are  adequate  and  worthy  of  the  theme.  In 
the  lecture  on  Napoleon  it  is  surprising  that  not  a 
word  is  said  of  his  greatest  faculty,  his  legislative, 
organizing  power,  for  we  cannot  but  think  with 
Carlyle,  that  he  "  will  be  better  known  for  his  laws 
than  his  battles."  But  the  other  talents  of  Napoleon 
are  sketched  with  a  faithful  hand,  and  his  faults  justly 
dealt  with,  not  enlarged,  but  not  hid ;  though,  on  the 
whole,  it  seems  to  us,  no  great  admirers  of  Napoleon, 
that  he  is  a  little  undervalued. 

We  must  briefly  notice  Mr.   Emerson's   volume  of 


110  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Poems.  He  has  himself  given  us  the  standard  by 
which  to  try  him,  for  he  thus  defines  and  describes 
the  poet: 

"  The  sign  and  credentials  of  the  poet  are,  that  he  announces 
that  which  no  man  foretold.  He  is  the  true  and  only  doctor;  he 
knows  and  tells;  he  is  the  only  teller  of  news,  for  he  was  pres- 
ent and  privy  to  the  appearance  which  he  describes.  He  is  a 
beholder  of  ideas,  and  an  utterer  of  the  necessary  and  causal. 
For  we  do  not  speak  now  of  men  of  poetical  talents,  or  of  in- 
dustry and  skill  in  metre,  but  of  the  true  poet.  I  took  part  in 
a  conversation  the  other  day,  concerning  a  recent  writer  of 
lyrics,  a  man  of  subtle  mind,  whose  head  appeared  to  be  a 
music  box  of  delicate  tunes  and  rhythms,  and  whose  skill  and 
command  of  language  we  could  not  sufiiciently  praise.  But 
when  the  question  arose  whether  he  was  not  only  a  lyrist,  but 
a  poet,  we  were  obliged  to  confess  that  he  is  plainly  a  contem- 
porary, not  an  eternal  man.  He  does  not  stand  out  of  our  low 
limitations  like  a  Chimborazo  under  the  line,  running  up  from 
the  torrid  base  through  all  the  climates  of  the  globe,  with  belts 
of  the  herbage  of  every  latitude  on  its  high  and  mottled  sides; 
but  this  genius  is  the  landscape-garden  of  a  modern  house, 
adorned  with  fountains  and  statues,  with  well-bred  men  and 
v^omen  standing  and  sitting  in  the  walks  and  terraces.  We 
hear  through  all  the  varied  music  the  ground  tone  of  conven- 
tional life.  Our  poets  are  men  of  talents  who  sing,  and  not  the 
children  of  music.  The  argument  is  secondary,  the  finish  of 
the  verses  is  primary. 

"  For,  it  is  not  metres,  but  a  metre-making  argument,  that 
makes  a  poem, —  a  thought  so  passionate  and  alive,  that,  like 
the  spirit  of  a  plant  or  an  animal,  it  has  an  architecture  of 
its  own,  and  adorns  nature  with  a  new  thing.  The  thought  and 
the  form  are  equal  in  the  order  of  time,  but  in  the  order  of 
genesis  the  thought  is  prior  to  the  form.  The  poet  has  a  new 
thought,  he  has  a  whole  new  experience  to  unfold;  he  will  tell 
us  how  it  was  with  him,  and  all  men  will  be  the  richer  in  his 
fortune."  * 

It  is  the  office  of  the  poet,  he  tells  us,  "  by  the 
beauty  of  things  "  to  announce  "  a  new  and  higher 
beauty.  Nature  offers  all  her  creatures  to  him  as  a 
picture  language."     "  The  poorest  experience  is  rich 

*  Centenary  ed..  Vol.  3,  pp.  8-10. 


EMERSON  111 

enough  for  all  the  purposes  of  expressing  thought ;" 
"  the  world  being  put  under  the  mind  for  verb  and 
noun,  the  poet  is  he  who  can  articulate  it ;"  he  "  turns 
the  world  to  glass,  and  shows  us  all  things  in  their 
right  series  and  proportions."  For  through  that 
better  perception  "  he  stands  one  step  nearer  things, 
and  sees  the  flowing  or  metamorphosis,  perceives  that 
thought  is  multiform ;  that  within  the  form  of  every 
creature  is  a  force  impelling  it  to  ascend  into  a  higher 
form,  and,  following  with  his  eyes  the  life,  uses  the 
forms  which  express  that  life,  and  so  his  speech  flows 
with  the  flowing  of  nature."  "  The  poet  alone  knows 
astronomy,  chemistry,  vegetation,  and  animation,  for 
he  does  not  stop  at  these  facts,  but  employs  them  as 
signs." 

"  This  insight,  which  expresses  itself  by  what  is  called  imagina- 
tion, is  a  very  high  sort  of  seeing,  which  does  not  come  by 
study,  but  by  the  intellect  being  where  and  what  it  sees,  by 
sharing  the  path  or  circuit  of  things  through  forms,  and  so 
making  them  translucid  to  others.  The  path  of  things  is  silent. 
Will  they  suffer  a  speaker  to  go  with  them?  A  spy  they  will 
not  suffer;  a  lover,  a  poet,  is  the  transcendency  of  their  own 
nature,  him  they  will  suffer.  The  condition  of  true  naming,  on 
the  poet's  part,  is  his  resigning  himself  to  the  divine  aura  which 
breathes  through   forms,  and  accompanying  that. 

"  It  is  a  secret  which  every  intellectual  man  quickly  learns, 
that  beyond  the  energy  of  his  possessed  and  conscious  intellect 
he  is  capable  of  a  new  energy  (as  of  an  intellect  doubled  on 
itself),  by  abandonment  to  the  nature  of  things;  that  beside 
his  privacy  of  power  as  an  individual  man  there  is  a  great 
public  power,  on  which  he  can  draw  by  unlocking,  at  all  risks, 
his  human  doors,  and  suffering  the  ethereal  tides  to  roll  and 
circulate  through  him;  then  he  is  caught  up  into  the  life  of  the 
Universe,  his  speech  is  thunder,  his  thought  is  law,  and  his 
words  are  universally  intelligible  as  the  plants  and  animals. 
The  poet  knows  that  he  speaks  adequately,  then,  only  when  he 
speaks  somewhat  wildly,  or,  '  with  the  flower  of  the  mind ; '  not 
with  the  intellect,  used  as  an  organ,  but  with  the  intellect  re- 
leased from  all  service,  and  suffered  to  take  its  direction  from 
its  celestial  life;  or,  as  the  ancients  were  wont  to  express  them- 


11^  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

selves,  not  with  intellect  alone,  but  with  the  intellect  inebriated 
by  nectar.  As  the  traveller  who  has  lost  his  way,  throws  his 
reins  on  his  horse's  neck,  and  trusts  to  the  instinct  of  the  ani- 
mal to  find  his  road,  so  we  must  do  with  the  divine  animal  who 
carries  us  through  this  world.  For  if  in  any  manner  we  can 
stimulate  this  instinct,  new  passages  are  opened  for  us  into  na- 
ture, the  mind  flows  into  and  through  things  hardest  and  high- 
est, and  the  metamorphosis  is  possible."  * 

In   reading   criticisms   on   Emerson's   poetry   one   is 

sometimes    reminded    of   a    passage    in    Pepys'   Diary, 

where  that  worthy  pronounces  judgment  on   some  of 

the  works  of  Shakspeare.     Perhaps  it  may  be  thought 

an  appropriate  introduction  to  some  strictures  of  our 

own. 

"Aug.  20th,  1666.  To  Deptford  by  water,  reading  Othello, 
Moor  of  Venice,  which  I  have  heretofore  esteemed  a  mighty 
good  play,  but  having  so  lately  read  the  Adventures  of  Five 
Hours,  it  seems  a  mean  thing.  Sept.  29th,  1662.  To  the  King's 
Theater,  where  we  saw  Midsummer  Night's  Dream,  which  I  had 
never  seen  before,  nor  shall  ever  again,  for  it  is  the  most  in- 
sipid and  ridiculous  play  that  ever  I  saw  in  my  life." 

Emerson  is  certainly  one 

"  Quem  tu,  Melpomene,   semel 

Nascentem  placido  lumine  videris; 
Spissse  nemorum  comae 

Fingent  ^olio  carmine  nobilem." 

Yet  his  best  poetry  is  in  his  prose,  and  his  poorest, 
thinnest,  and  least  musical  prose  is  in  his  poems. 

The  "  Ode  of  Beauty  "  contains  some  beautiful 
thoughts  in  a  fair  form : 

"Who  gave  thee,  O  Beauty, 

The  keys  of  this  breast, — 
Too  credulous  lover 

Of  blest  and  unblest? 
Say,  when  in  lapsed  ages 

Thee  knew  I  of  old? 

*  Centenary  ed..  Vol.  3,  pp.   26-27. 


EMERSON  113 

Or  what  was  the  service 

For  which  I  was  sold? 
When  first  my  eyes  saw  thee, 

I  found  me  thy  thrall, 
By  magical  drawings 

Sweet  tyrant  of  all! 
I  drank   at  thy   fountain 

False  waters  of  thirst; 
Thou  intimate  stranger, 

Thou  latest  and  first! 
Thy  dangerous  glances 

Make  women  of  men; 
New-born,  we  are  melting 

Into  nature  again." 

The  three  pieces  which  seem  the  most  perfect  poems, 
both  in  matter  and  form,  are  the  "  Problem,"  from 
which  we  have  already  given  liberal  extracts  above; 
"  Each  in  all,"  which,  however,  is  certainly  not  a 
great  poem,  but  simple,  natural,  and  beautiful;  and 
the  "  Sphinx,"  which  has  higher  merits  than  the 
others,  and  is  a  poem  of  a  good  deal  of  beauty.  The 
Sphinx  is  the  creation  of  the  old  classic  mythology. 
But  her  question  is  wholly  modern,  though  she  has  been 
waiting  so  long  for  the  seer  to  solve  it  that  she  has 
become  drowsy. 

This  is  her  problem: 

"  The  fate  of  the  man-child; 
The  meaning  of  man." 

All  the  material  and  animal  world  is  at  peace: 

"  Erect  as  a  sunbeam 

Upspringeth  the  palm; 
The  elephant  browses. 

Undaunted  and  calm; 
In  beautiful  motion 

The  thrush  plies  his  wings; 
Kind  leaves  of  his  covert. 

Your  silence  he  sings. 

11—8 


114  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

"  Sea,  earth,  air,  sound,  silence, 

Plant,  quadruped,  bird, 
By  one  music  enchanted. 

One  deity  stirred, — 
Each  the  other  adorning. 

Accompany  still; 
Night  veileth  the  morning. 

The  vapor  the  hill." 

In  his  early  age  man  shares  the  peace  of  the  world: 

The  babe  by  its  mother 

Lies   bathed  in  joy; 
Glide  its   hours  uncounted, — 

The  sun  is  its  toy; 
Shines  the  peace  of  all  being 

Without  cloud,  in  its  eyes; 
And  the  sum  of  the  world 

In  soft  miniature  lies." 

But  when  the  child  becomes  a  man  he  is  ill  at  ease: 

"  But  man  crouches  and  blushes. 

Absconds  and  conceals; 
He  creepeth  and  peepeth. 

He  palters  and  steals; 
Infirm,  melancholy. 

Jealous   glancing  around. 
An  oaf,  an  accomplice, 

He  poisons  the  ground." 

Mother  Nature  complains  of  his  condition  : 

"  Who  has  drugged  my  boy's  cup  ? 
Who  has  mixed  my   boy's   bread? 
Who,  with  sadness  and  madness. 
Has  turned  the  man-child's  head?"io 

The  Sphinx  wishes  to  know  the  meaning  of  all  this. 
A  poet  answers  that  this  is  no  mystery  to  him ;  man 
is  superior  to  nature,  and  its  unconscious  and  in- 
voluntary happiness  is  not  enough  for  him ;  superior 
to  the  events  of  his  own  history,  so  the  joy  which  he 
has  attained  is  always  unsatisfactory: 


I 


EMERSON  115 

"The  fiend  that  man  harries 

Is  love  of  the  best; 
Yawns  the  pit  of  the  dragon. 

Lit  by  rays  from  the  blest. 
The  Lethe  of  nature 

Can't  trance  him  again, 
Whose  soul  sees  the  perfect. 

Which  his  eyes  seek  in  vain. 

"  Prof ounder,  profounder, 

Man's  spirit  must  dive; 
To  his  aye-rolling  orbit 

No  goal  will  arrive;  n 
The  heavens  that  now  draw  him 

With  sweetness  untold, 
Once  found, —  for  new  heavens 

He  spurneth  the  old." 

Even  sad  things  turn  out  well: 

"  Pride  ruined  the  angels, 

Their  shame  them  restores; 
And  the  joy  that  is  sweetest 
Lurks  in  stings  of  remorse."  12 

Thus  the  riddle  is  solved,  then  the  Sphinx  turns  into 
beautiful  things: 

"  Uprose  the  merry  sphinx, 

And  crouched  no  more  in  stone; 
She  melted  into  purple  cloud. 

She  silvered  in  the  moon; 
She  spired  into  a  yellow  flame; 

She  flowered  in  blossoms  red; 
She  flowed  into  a  foaming  wave; 

She  stood  Monadnoc's  head." 

We  pass  over  the  Threnody,  where  "  well-sung 
woes  "  might  soothe  a  "  pensive  ghost."  The  Dirge 
contains  some  stanzas  that  are  full  of  nature  and  well 
expressed : 

"  Knows   he   who   tills   this   lonely  field. 
To    reap    its    scanty    corn. 


116  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

What    mystic    fruit    his    acres    yield 
At   midnight    and    at    morn? 


"  The  winding  Concord  gleamed  below. 
Pouring    as    wide    a    flood 
As   when    my   brothers,   long   ago. 
Came  with  me  to  the  wood. 

"But   they  are   gone  —  the  holy      ones 
Who   trod   with   me   this   lovely   vale; 
The    strong,    star-bright    companions 
Are  silent,  low,  and  pale. 

"  My  good,  my  noble,  in  their  prime. 

Who  made  this  world  the  feast  it  was. 
Who  learned  with  me  the  lore  of  time. 
Who   loved   this    dwelling-place! 

"  I  touch  this  flower  of  silken  leaf. 
Which   once   our   childhood  knew; 
Its  soft  leaves  wound  me  with  a  grief 
Whose   balsam   never    grew. 

"  Hearken   to  yon  pine-warbler 
Singing    aloft    in    the    tree! 
Hearest    thou,    O    traveller. 
What   he   singeth   to   me? 

"  Not  unless   God  made  sharp  thine  ear 
With   sorrow  such  as  mine. 
Out   of   that   delicate   lay   could'st   thou 
Its   heavy  tale   divine. 

"  '  Go,  lonely  man,'  it  saith ; 

'They  loved  thee  from  their  birth; 
Their  hands  were  pure,  and  pure  their   faith,- 
There  are  no   such  hearts  on   earth. 


' '  Ye  cannot  unlock  your  heart, 
The  key   is    gone   with   them; 

The  silent  organ  loudest  chants 
The   master's    requiem.' " 


EMERSON  117 

Here  is  a  little  piece  which  has  seldom  been  equalled 
in  depth  and  beauty  of  thought ;  yet  it  has  sometimes 
been  complained  of  as  obscure,  we  see  not  why : 

TO  RHEA. 

"Thee,   dear    friend,   a   brother   soothes. 
Not   with    flatteries,   but   truths. 
Which  tarnish  not,  but  purify 
To   light  which   dims   the   morning's   eye. 
I   have  come   from  the  spring-woods, 
From   the   fragrant   solitudes; 
Listen   what   the   poplar-tree 
And  murmuring  waters  counselled  me. 

"If  with  love  thy  heart  has  burned; 
If  thy  love  is  unreturned; 
Hide  thy   grief   within  thy   breast. 
Though  it  tear  thee  unexpressed; 
For   when   love   has    once   departed 
From   the   eyes   of  the    false-hearted. 
And  one  by  one  has  torn  off  quite 
The   bandages    of   purple    light; 
Though   thou   wert   the    loveliest 
Form  the  soul  had  ever  dressed. 
Thou   shalt   seem,  in  each  reply, 
A  vixen  to  his  altered  eye; 
Thy  softest  pleadings   seem   too   bold. 
Thy  praying  lute   will  seem   to  scold; 
Though  thou  kept  the  straightest  road. 
Yet  thou  arrest  far  and  broad. 

"  But  thou  shalt  do  as  do  the  gods 
In    their    cloudless    periods; 
For   of   this   lore   be   thou   sure, — 
Though  thou   forget,   the  gods,   secure. 
Forget    never   their   command. 
But  make  the  statute  of  this   land. 
As  they  lead,  so  foUow  all. 
Ever  have  done,  ever  shall. 
Warning  to  the   blind   and  deaf, 
'Tis  written   on  the   iron  leaf. 
Who  drinks  of  Cupid's  nectar  cup 
Loveth  downward,  and  not  upj 


118  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Therefore,  who  loves,  of  gods  or  men,i3 

Shall  not  by  the  same  be  loved  again; 

His  sweetheart's  idolatry 

Falls,  in  turn,  a  new  degree. 

When    a    god    is    once   beguiled 

By  beauty  of  a  mortal   child. 

And  by  her  radiant  youth  delighted. 

He  is  not  fooled,  but  warily  knoweth 

His  love   shall   never   be   requited. 

And  thus  the  wise  Immortal  doethf— 

'Tis  his  study  and  delight 

To  bless   that   creature   day   and   night; 

From   all    evils    to   defend   her; 

In  her  lap  to  pour  aU  splendor; 

To   ransack   earth    for   riches    rare. 

And    fetch  her   stars   to   deck  her  hair; 

He    mixes    music    with    her    thoughts, 

And   saddens   her   with  heavenly   doubts: 

All   grace,   all  good  his   great  heart  knows. 

Profuse  in  love,  the  king  bestows: 

Saying,    '  Hearken !   earth,    sea,    air ! 

This   monument  of  my   despair 

Build   I   to   the   All-Good,   AU-Fair. 

Not   for  a  private  good. 

But    I,    from   my   beatitude, 

Albeit  scorn'd  as  none  was  scorn'd. 

Adorn  her  as  was  none  adorned. 

I  make  this  maiden  an  ensample 

To    Nature,    through   her   kingdoms    ample. 

Whereby   to   model   newer   races. 

Statelier    forms,    and    fairer    faces; 

To  carry  man  to  new  degrees 

Of  power,  and  of  comeliness. 

These   presents   be  the   hostages 

Which   I   pawn   for  my   release. 

See  to  thyself,  O    Universe! 

Thou  art  better,  and  not  worse.' — 

And  the  god,  having  given  all. 

Is   freed   for   ever   from  his  thrall." 

Several  of  the  other  pieces  are  poor;  some  are  stiff 
and  rude,  having  no  lofty  thoughts  to  atone  for  their 
unlovely  forms.  Some  have  quaint  names,  which 
seem  given  to  them  out  of  mere  caprice.     Such  are 


EMERSON  119 

the  following:  Mithridates,  Hamatreya,  Hermione, 
Merlin,  Merops,  &c.^*  These  names  are  not  more  de- 
scriptive of  the  poems  they  are  connected  with  than 
are  Jonathan  and  Eleazer  of  the  men  thus  baptized. 
What  have  Astrea,  Rhea,  and  Etienne  de  la  Boece  to 
do  with  the  poems  which  bear  their  names? 

We  should  think  the  following  lines,  from  Hermione, 
were  written  by  some  of  the  youngest  Emersonidae: 

"  Once  I   dwelt  apart. 
Now  I  live  with  all; 
As  shepherd's   lamp   on   far  hill-side 
Seems,    by    the    traveller    espied, 
A  door   into   the   mountain   heart, 
So    didst   thou   quarry   and   unlock 
Highways    for  me  through  the  rock. 

"Now,   deceived,  thou  wanderest 
In   strange   lands   unblest; 
And   my    kindred   come   to    soothe   me. 
Southwind  is  my  next  of  blood; 
He    has    come    through    fragrant   wood. 
Drugged  with  spice  from  climates  warm. 
And   in    every   twinkling    glade. 
And    twilight    nook. 
Unveils  thy  form. 
Out  of  the  forest  way 
Forth  paced  it  yesterday; 
And  when  I  sat  by  the  watercourse. 
Watching   the   daylight    fade, 
It  throbbed  up  from  the  brook." 

Such  things  are  unworthy  of  such  a  master. 

Here   is   a   passage  which  we  will  not   attempt  to 
criticise. 

He  is  speaking  of  Love: 

"  He  wiU  preach  like  a  friar 
And    jump    like    a    harlequin; 
He  will  read  like  a  crier. 
And  fight  Uke  a  Paladin,"  &c.* 

♦Centenary  ed..  Vol.  9,  p.  108. 


ago  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Good  Homer  sometimes  nodded,  they  say ;  but  when 
he  went  fast  asleep,  he  did  not  write  Hnes  or  print 
them. 

Here  is  another  specimen.  It  is  Monadnoc  that 
speaks : 

"  Anchor'd   fast  for  many  an  age, 
I   await   the   bard   and   sage, 
Who,  in  large  thoughts,  like  fair  pearl-seed. 
Shall  string  Monadnoc  like  a  bead." 

And  yet   another: 

"  For  the  present,  hard 

Is  the  fortune  of  the  bard." 
"  In  the  woods  he  travels  glad. 

Without  bitter  fortune  mad. 

Melancholy  without  bad." 

We  have  seen  imitations  of  this  sort  of  poetry 
which  even  surpassed  the  original.  It  does  not  seem 
possible  that  Emerson  can  write  such  stuff  simply 
from  "  lacking  the  accomplishment  of  verse."  Is  it 
that  he  has  a  false  theory,  and  so  wilfully  writes  in- 
numerous  verse,  and  plays  his  harp,  all  jangling  and 
thus  out  of  tune?  Certainly  it  seems  so.  In  his 
poems  he  uses  the  old  mythology,  and  in  bad  taste; 
talks  of  gods,  and  not  God  —  of  Pan,  the  Oreads, 
Titan,  Jove,  and  Mars,  the  Parcas  and  the  Daemon. 

There  are  three  elaborate  poems  which  demand  a 
word  of  notice.  The  "  Woodnotes "  contains  some 
good  thoughts,  and  some  pleasing  lines,  but  on  the 
whole  a  pine  tree  which  should  talk  like  Mr.  Emerson's 
pine  ought  to  be  plucked  up  by  the  roots  and  cast  into 
the  depths  of  the  sea.  "  Monadnoc  "  is  the  title  of 
another  piece  which  appears  forced  and  unnatural,  as 
well  as  poor  and  weak.  The  third  is  called  "  initial, 
daemonic,  and  celestial  love."     It  is  not  without  good 


EMERSON  121 

thoughts,  and  here  and  there  a  good  line,  but  in  every 
attribute  of  poetry  it  is  far  inferior  to  his  majestic 
essay  on  Love.  In  his  poetry  ]\Ir.  Emerson  often  loses 
his  command  of  language,  metaphors  fail  him,  and  the 
magnificent  images  which  adorn  and  beautify  all  his 
prose  works  are  gone. 

From  what  has  been  said,  notwithstanding  the 
faults  we  have  found  in  Emerson,  it  is  plain  that  we 
assign  him  a  very  high  rank  in  the  literature  of  man- 
kind. He  is  a  very  extraordinary  man.  To  no  Eng- 
lish writer  since  Milton  can  we  assign  so  high  a  place ; 
even  Milton  himself,  great  genuis  though  he  was,  and 
great  architect  of  beauty,  has  not  added  so  many 
thoughts  to  the  treasury  of  the  race ;  no,  nor  been  the 
author  of  so  much  loveliness.  Emerson  is  a  man  of 
genius  such  as  docs  not  often  appear,  such  as  has 
never  appeared  before  in  America,  and  but  seldom  in 
the  world.  He  learns  from  all  sorts  of  men,  but  no 
English  writer,  we  think,  is  so  original.  We  sincerely 
lament  the  want  of  logic  in  his  method,  and  his  exag- 
geration of  the  intuitive  powers,  the  unhappy  con- 
sequences of  which  we  see  in  some  of  his  followers  and 
admirers.  They  will  be  more  faithful  than  he  to 
the  false  principle  which  he  lays  down,  and  will  think 
themselves  wise  because  they  do  not  study,  learned  be- 
cause they  are  ignorant  of  books,  and  inspired  because 
they  say  what  outrages  common  sense.  In  Emerson's 
poetry  there  is  often  a  ruggedness  and  want  of  finish 
which  seems  wilful  in  a  man  like  him.  This  fault  is 
very  obvious  in  those  pieces  he  has  put  before  his 
several  essays.  Sometimes  there  is  a  seed-corn  of 
thought  in  the  piece,  but  the  piece  itself  seems  like  a 
pile  of  rubbish  shot  out  of  a  cart  which  hinders  the 
seed  from  germinating.     His   admirers  and  imitators 


122  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

not  unfrequently  give  us  only  the  rubbish  and  proba- 
bly justify  themselves  by  the  example  of  their  master. 
Spite  of  these  defects,  Mr.  Emerson  on  the  whole 
speaks  with  a  holy  power  which  no  other  man  pos- 
sesses who  now  writes  the  English  tongue.  Others 
have  more  readers,  are  never  sneered  at  by  respect- 
able men,  are  oftener  praised  in  the  journals,  have 
greater  weight  in  the  pulpits,  the  cabinets,  and  the 
councils  of  the  nation ;  but  there  is  none  whose  words 
so  sink  into  the  mind  and  heart  of  young  men  and 
maids,  none  who  work  so  powerfully  to  fashion  the 
character  of  the  coming  age.  Seeing  the  power  which 
he  exercises,  and  the  influence  he  is  likely  to  have  on 
generations  to  come,  we  are  jealous  of  any  ^ault  in 
his  matter,  or  its  form,  and  have  allowed  no  private 
and  foolish  friendship  to  hinder  us  from  speaking  of 
his  faults. 

This  is  his  source  of  strength,  his  intellectual  and 
moral  sincerity.  He  looks  after  truth,  justice,  and 
beauty.  He  has  not  uttered  a  word  that  is  false  to 
his  own  mind  or  conscience ;  has  not  suppressed  a  word 
because  he  thought  it  too  high  for  men's  comprehen- 
sion, and  therefore  dangerous  to  the  repose  of  men. 
He  never  compromises.  He  sees  the  chasm  between 
the  ideas  which  come  of  man's  nature  and  the  institu- 
tions which  represent  only  his  history ;  he  does  not  seek 
to  cover  up  the  chasm  which  daily  grows  wider  be- 
tween truth  and  public  opinion,  between  justice  and 
the  state,  between  Christianity  and  the  church ;  he  does 
not  seek  to  fill  it  up,  but  he  asks  men  to  step  over 
and  build  institutions  commensurate  with  their  ideas. 
He  trusts  himself,  trusts  man,  and  trusts  God.  He 
has  confidence  in  all  the  attributes  of  infinity.  Hence 
he  is   serene;  nothing  disturbs  the  even  poise  of  his 


EMERSON 


123 


character,  and  he  walks  erect.  Nothing  Impedes  him 
in  his  search  for  the  true,  the  lovely,  and  the  good ; 
no  private  hope,  no  private  fear,  no  love  of  wife  or 
child,  of  gold,  or  ease,  or  fame.  He  never  seeks  his 
own  reputation ;  he  takes  care  of  his  being,  and  leaves 
his  seeming  to  take  care  of  itself.  Fame  may  seek 
him;  he  never  goes  out  of  his  way  a  single  inch  for 
her. 

He  has  not  written  a  line  which  is  not  conceived  in 
the  interest  of  mankind.  He  never  writes  in  the  in- 
terest of  a  section,  of  a  party,  of  a  church,  of  a  man, 
always  in  the  interest  of  mankind.  Hence  comes  the 
ennobling  influence  of  his  works.  Most  of  the  literary 
men  of  America,  most  of  the  men  of  superior  educa- 
tion, represent  the  ideas  and  interest  of  some  party ;  in 
all  that  concerns  the  welfare  of  the  human  race  they 
are  proportionably  behind  the  mass  who  have  only  the 
common  culture,  so  while  the  thought  of  the  people  is 
democratic,  putting  man  before  the  accidents  of  a  man, 
the  literature  of  the  nation  is  aristocratic,  and  opposed 
to  the  welfare  of  mankind.  Emerson  belongs  to  the 
exceptional  literature  of  the  times ;  and  while  his  cul- 
ture joins  him  to  the  history  of  man,  his  ideas  and  his 
whole  life  enable  him  to  represent  also  the  nature  of 
man,  and  so  to  write  for  the  future.  He  is  one  of  the 
rare  exceptions  amongst  our  educated  men,  and  helps 
redeem  American  literature  from  the  reproach  of  imi- 
tation, conformity,  meanness  of  aim,  and  hostility  to 
the  progress  of  mankind.  No  faithful  man  is  too 
low  for  his  approval  and  encouragement ;  no  faithless 
man  too  high  and  popular  for  his  rebuke. 

A  good  test  of  the  comparative  value  of  books  is 
the  state  they  leave  you  in.  Emerson  leaves  you  tran- 
quil, resolved  on  noble  manhood,  fearless  of  the  con- 


124  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

sequences ;  he  gives  men  to  mankind,  and  mankind  to 
the  laws  of  God.  His  position  is  a  striking  one. 
Eminently  a  child  of  Christianity  and  of  the  American 
idea,  he  is  out  of  the  church  and  out  of  the  state.  In 
the  midst  of  Calvinistic  and  Unitarian  superstition,  he 
does  not  fear  God,  but  loves  and  trusts  him.  He  does 
not  worship  the  idols  of  our  time  —  wealth  and  re^ 
spectability,  the  two  calves  set  up  by  our  modern 
Jeroboam.  He  fears  not  the  damnation  these  idols 
have  the  power  to  inflict,  neither  poverty  nor  social 
disgrace.  In  busy  and  bustling  New  England  comes 
out  this  man  serene  and  beautiful  as  a  star,  and  shining 
like  "  a  good  deed  in  a  naughty  world."  Reproached 
as  an  idler,  he  is  active  as  the  sun,  and  pours  out  his 
radiant  truth  on  lyceums  at  Chelmsford,  at  Waltham, 
at  Lowell,  and  all  over  the  land.  Out  of  a  cold  Uni- 
tarian church  rose  this  most  lovely  light.  Here  is 
Boston,  perhaps  the  most  humane  city  in  America, 
with  its  few  noble  men  and  women,  its  beautiful  chari- 
ties, its  material  vigor,  and  its  hardy  enterprise;  com- 
mercial Boston,  where  honor  is  weighed  in  the  public 
scales,  and  justice  reckoned  by  the  dollars  it  brings; 
conservative  Boston,  the  grave  of  the  Revolution,  wal- 
lowing in  its  wealth,  yet  grovelling  for  more,  seeking 
only  money,  careless  of  justice,  stuffed  with  cotton  yet 
hungry  for  tariffs,  sick  with  the  greedy  worm  of 
avarice,  loving  money  as  the  end  of  life,  and  bigots 
as  the  means  of  preserving  it ;  Boston,  with  toryism  in 
its  parlors,  toryism  in  its  pulpits,  toryism  in  its  press, 
itself  a  tory  town,  preferring  the  accidents  of  man  to 
man  himself,  and  amidst  it  all  there  comes  Emerson, 
graceful  as  Phcebus-Apollo,  fearless  and  tranquil  as 
the  sun  he  was  supposed  to  guide,  and  pours  down  the 
enchantment  of  his  light,  which  falls  where'er  it  may, 


EMERSON 


125 


on  dust,  on  diamonds,  on  decaying  heaps  to  hasten 
their  rapid  rot,  on  seeds  new  sown  to  quicken  their 
ambitious  germ,  on  virgin  minds  of  youths  and  maids 
to  waken  the  natural  seed  of  nobleness  therein,  and 
make  it  grow  to  beauty  and  to  manliness.  Such  is  the 
beauty  of  his  speech,  such  the  majesty  of  his  ideas, 
such  the  power  of  the  moral  sentiment  in  men,  and 
such  the  impression  which  his  whole  character  makes 
on  them,  that  they  lend  him,  everywhere,  their  ears, 
and  thousands  bless  his  manly  thoughts. 


Ill 

WILLIAM  ELLERY  CHANNING 

It  is  now  six  years  since  William  Ellery  Channing, 
ceasing  to  be  mortal,  passed  on  to  his  rest  and  his  re- 
ward. We  have  waited  impatiently  for  the  publica- 
tion of  his  memoirs,  that  we  might  "  beg  a  hair  of  him 
for  memory."  They  are  now  before  us  —  three  well- 
printed  volumes,  mainly  filled  up  with  his  own  writings, 
letters,  extracts  from  journals,  sermons,  and  various  pa- 
pers hitherto  kept  from  the  press.  As  a  public  speaker 
and  a  popular  writer  he  was  well  known  before; 
these  volumes  show  us  not  merely  the  minister  and  the 
author,  but  the  son,  husband,  father,  and  friend.  If 
they  reveal  nothing  new  in  his  character,  we  have  yet 
in  them  ample  materials  for  ascertaining  whence  came 
his  influence  and  his  power.  What  estimate  shall  we 
make  of  the  man,  and  what  lesson  draw  from  his  life 
and  works?  These  are  matters  worth  considering,  but 
before  answering  the  question,  let  us  look  a  little  at 
the  opportunities  afforded  him  by  his  profession. 

The  church  and  state  are  two  conspicuous  and  im- 
portant forms  of  popular  action.  The  state  is  an 
institution  which  represents  man  in  his  relations  with 
man ;  the  church,  man  in  his  relations  with  man  and 
God.  These  institutions,  varying  in  their  modifica- 
tions, have  always  been  and  must  be,  as  they  represent 
two  modes  of  action  that  are  constant  in  the  human 
race,  and  come  from  the  imperishable  nature  of  man. 
In  each  of  these  modes  of  action  the  people  have  their 

126 


CHANNING  irt 

servants, —  politicians,  the  servants  of  the  state,  and 
clergymen,  the  servants  of  the  church. 

Now  the  clergymen  may  be  a  priest  or  a  minister, 
the  choice  depending  on  his  character  and  ability. 
The  same  distinctions  are  noticeable  in  the  servants  of 
the  state,  where  we  have  the  priest  of  politics  and  the 
minister  of  politics.     We  will  pass  over  the  priest. 

The  business  of  the  minister  is  to  become  a  spiritual 
guide  to  men,  to  instruct  by  his  wisdom,  elevate  by  his 
goodness,  refine  and  strengthen  by  his  piety,  to  inspire 
by  his  whole  soul,  to  serve  and  to  lead  by  going  be- 
fore them  all  his  days  with  all  his  life,  a  pillar  of  cloud 
by  day,  of  fire  by  night.  The  good  shepherd  giveth 
his  life  to  his  sheep  as  well  as  for  them.  The  minister 
aims  to  be,  to  do,  and  to  suffer,  in  special  for  his  own 
particular  parish,  but  also  and  in  general  for  mankind 
at  large.  He  proposes  for  himself  this  end,  the  eleva- 
tion of  mankind, —  their  physical  elevation  to  health, 
comfort,  abundance,  skill,  and  beauty ;  their  intellectual 
elevation  to  thought,  refinement,  and  wisdom ;  their 
moral  and  religious  elevation  to  goodness  and  piety, 
till  they  all  become  sons  of  God  also,  and  prophets. 
However,  his  direct  and  main  business  is  to  promote 
the  spiritual  growth  of  men,  helping  them  to  love  one 
another,  and  to  love  God. 

His  means  to  this  end  are,  in  general,  the  common 
weapons  of  the  church.  To  him  the  Sunday  is  a  high 
day,  for  it  is  the  great  day  of  work,  when  he  comes 
into  close  relations  with  men,  to  instruct  the  mind,  to 
warn  in  the  name  of  conscience,  gently  arousing  the 
affections,  kindling  the  religious  emotions,  and  sc  con- 
tinuing his  Father's  work ;  the  meeting-house,  chapel, 
or  church,  is  the  great  place  for  his  work,  and  so,  like 
the  Sunday,  it  is  holy  to  him,  both  invested  with  a  cer- 


128  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

tain  sanctity,  as  to  the  pious  farmer  or  smith,  the 
plough  or  the  hammer  seems  a  sacred  thing.  The 
Bible,  the  service-book,  the  traditions  he  appeals  to,  the 
sacramental  ordinances  he  uses,  all  are  means,  but  not 
ends,  helps  to  whom  they  help,  but  nothing  more,  their 
sanctity  derivative,  not  of  them  but  of  the  use  they 
serve.  In  our  day  the  press  oiFers  him  its  aid,  and 
stands  ready  to  distribute  his  thought  among  the  mil- 
lions of  mankind.  By  means  of  that  he  gradually  gets 
beyond  the  bounds  of  his  parish,  rural  or  metropolitan, 
and  if  God  has  so  gifted  him  has  whole  nations  for  his 
audience,  and  long  after  his  death,  his  word  will  circu- 
late among  the  nations  a  word  of  power  and  blessed- 
ness. 

The  minister  finds  a  certain  respect  paid  to  the 
clergyman.  This  is  not  a  thing  that  is  new,  but  old, 
hallowed,  and  slowly  fading  out  of  the  consciousness 
of  the  nations.  This  traditional  respect  gives  him  a 
certain  position  and  influence,  and  enables  him  at  once 
to  anticipate  and  claim  a  place  which  is  granted  to 
other  classes  of  men  only  as  the  result  of  long  life 
and  faithful  work.  He  finds  a  pulpit  erected  for  him, 
an  audience  gathered,  respectful  and  disposed  to  listen 
and  gratefully  to  receive  whatever  good  he  has  to 
offer.  While  the  priest  uses  this  position  and  tra- 
ditional respect  to  elevate  himself,  to  take  his  ease  in 
his  inn,  to  keep  men  still,  the  minister  uses  it  to  help 
men  forward ;  not  to  elevate  himself,  but  them.  The 
pulpit  is  his  place  to  stand  on  and  move  the  world. 
It  is  not  to  be  denied  that  even  now,  in  incredulous 
America,  the  calling  of  a  clergyman  gives  a  man  a 
good  opportunity  for  power,  for  a  real,  serious,  and 
lasting  influence,  or  It  gives  him  the  best  chance  for  a 
sleep,  silent  and  undisturbed,  and  deep  and  long. 


CHANNING  129 

Such  are  the  general  means  of  the  minister  towards 
his  great  end,  means  which  belong  to  all  clergymen, 
and  vary  in  efficiency  only  with  the  number,  the  wealth, 
the  talent,  and   social  position  of  his  audience.     His 
particular  and  personal  means  are  his  talents,  little  or 
great ;  his   skill,   acquired  by   education   and   self-dis- 
icipline;  his  learning,  the  accumulated  thought  which 
has  come  of  his  diligence,  as  capital  is  accumulated  by 
toil  and  thrift ;  his  eloquence,  the  power  of  speaking 
the  right  thing,  at  the  right  time,  w^ith  the  right  words, 
in  the  right  way ;  his  goodness  and  his  piety, —  in  a 
word,  his  whole  character,  intellectual,  moral,  and  re- 
ligious.    These   are   the   means   which   belong   to   the 
[man,  not  the  clergyman ;  means  which  vary  not  with 
[the  number,  wealth,  talent,  and  social  position  of  his 
[audience,  but  only  with  the  powers  of  the  man  him- 
self.    His  general  means  are  what  he  has  as  servant 
[of  the  church ;  his  special,  what  he  is  as  a  man. 

Say  what  men  will,  the  pulpit  is  still  a  vantage 
[ground,  an  eminence ;  often  a  bad  eminence,  it  may  be, 
still  one  of  the  places  of  public  power.  If  a  man  would 
produce  an  immediate  effect  and  accomplish  one  par- 
ticular work,  let  him  storm  awhile  in  Congress,  if  he 
will.  But  if  he  aims  to  produce  a  long  and  lasting  in- 
fluence, to  effect  men  deeply,  and  in  many  ways  promote 
the  progress  of  mankind,  he  may  ascend  the  pulpit,  and 
thence  pour  forth  his  Hght  and  heat  on  youth  and  age, 
distil  his  early  and  his  latter  rain ;  he  is  sure  to  waken 
the  tender  plants  at  last,  and  sure  to  strengthen  the 
tallest  and  most  strong.  Yet  for  all  that,  say  what 
we  may  of  the  power  of  that  position,  the  man  is  more 
than  the  pulpit,  more  than  the  church, —  yes,  more 
than  all  pulpits  and  all  churches,  and  if  he  is  right 

and  they  wrong,  he  sets  them  a  spinning  around  him 
II— 9 


130  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

as  boys  their  tops.  Yet  'tis  a  great  mistake  to  suppose 
it  is  the  spoken  word  merely  that  does  all;  it  is  the 
mind,  the  heart,  the  soul,  the  character,  that  speaks 
the  word.  Words,  they  are  the  least  of  what  a  man 
says.  The  water  in  some  wide  brook  is  harmless 
enough,  loitering  along  its  way,  nothing  but  water; 
the  smallest  of  fishes  find  easy  shall6ws  for  their  sport; 
careless  reptiles  there  leave  their  unattended  young, 
children  wade  laughing  along  its  course  and  sail  their 
tiny  ships.  But  raise  that  stream  a  hundred  feet,  its 
tinkle  becomes  thunder,  and  its  waters  strike  with  force 
that  nothing  can  resist.  So  the  words  of  a  man  of  no 
character,  though  comforting  enough  when  they  are 
echoed  by  passion,  appetite,  and  old  and  evil  habits  of 
our  own  —  are  powerless  against  the  might  of  passion, 
habit,  appetite.  What  comes  from  nothing  comes  to 
nothing.  I  know  in  whom  I  have  believed,  said  the 
apostle  —  not  merely  what. 

It  is  the  minister's  business  to  teach  men  truth  and 
religion,  not  directly  all  forms  of  truth  —  though  to 
help  so  far  as  he  may  even  in  that  —  but  especially 
truth  which  relates  to  man's  spiritual  growth.  To  do 
this  he  must  be  before  men,  superior  to  them  in  the 
things  he  teaches :  we  set  a  grown  woman  to  take  care 
of  children,  a  man  to  teach  boys.  There  is  no  other 
way ;  in  mathematics  and  in  morals  the  leader  must 
go  before  the  men  he  leads.  To  teach  truth  and  re- 
ligion the  minister  must  not  only  possess  them,  but 
must  know  the  obstacles  which  oppose  them  both  in 
other  minds  —  must  know  the  intellectual  errors  which 
conflict  with  truth,  the  practical  errors  which  contend 
with  religion,  and  so  be  able  to  meet  and  confront  the 
falsehoods  and  the  sins  of  his  time.  He  must  there- 
fore be  a  reformer, —  there  is  no  help  for  it.     He  may 


CHANNING  131 

have  a  mystical  turn,  and  reform  only  sentiments ;  a 
philosophical  turn,  and  reform  ideas  —  in  politics, 
philosophy,  theology ;  or  a  practical  turn,  and  hew 
away  only  at  actual  concrete  sins ;  but  a  reformer  must 
he  be  in  one  shape,  or  in  all,  otherwise  he  is  no 
minister,  serving,  leading,  inspiring,  but  only  a  priest, 
a  poor  miserable  priest, —  not  singing  his  own  psalm 
out  of  his  own  throat,  but  grinding  away  at  the  barrel- 
organ  of  his  sect  —  grating  forth  tunes  which  he  did 
not  make  and  cannot  understand. 

The  minister  is  to  labor  for  mankind,  for  the  noblest 
end,  in  one  of  the  highest  modes  of  labor,  and  its 
fairest  form.  He  does  not  ask  to  rule,  but  to  serve; 
not  praise  but  perfection.  He  seeks  power  over  men 
not  for  his  sake,  but  theirs.  He  is  to  take  the  lead  in 
all  works  of  education,  of  moral  and  social  reform.  If 
need  is,  he  must  be  willing  to  stand  alone.  The  quali- 
ties which  bind  him  to  mankind  for  all  eternity  are 
qualities  which  may  sever  him  from  his  class  and  his 
townsmen ;  3^es,  from  his  own  brothers,  and  that  for  his 
mortal  life.  The  distinctions  amongst  men  must  be 
no  distinctions  to  him.  He  must  honor  all  men,  be- 
come a  brother  to  all,  most  brotherly  to  the  neediest. 
He  must  see  the  man  in  the  begger,  in  the  felon,  in 
the  outcast  of  society,  and  labor  to  separate  that  dia- 
mond from  the  rubbish  that  hides  its  light.  In  a  great 
city  the  lowest  ranks  of  the  public  should  be  familiar 
to  his  thoughts  and  present  in  his  prayers.  He  is  to 
seek  instruction  from  men  that  can  give  it,  and  im- 
part of  himself  to  all  that  need  and  as  they  need.  He 
must  keep  an  unbroken  sympathy  with  man ;  above  all, 
he  must  dwell  intimate  with  God.  It  is  his  duty  to 
master  the  greatest  subjects  of  human  thought;  to 
know  the  nature  of  man,  his  wants,  appetites,  expos- 


132  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ures,  his  animal  nature,  his  human  nature,  and  his  di- 
vine ;  man  in  his  ideal  state  of  wisdom,  abundance, 
loveliness,  and  religion ;  man  in  his  actual  state  of  ig- 
norance, want,  deformity,  and  sin.  He  is  to  minister 
to  man's  highest  wants ;  to  bring  high  council  to  low 
men,  and  to  elevate  still  more  the  aspirations  of  the 
loftiest.  He  must  be  a  living  rebuke  to  proud  men 
and  the  scorner ;  a  man  so  full  of  heart  and  hope  that 
drooping  souls  shall  take  courage  and  thank  God, 
cheered  by  his  conquering  valor. 

To  do  and  to  be  all  this  he  must  know  men,  not  with 
the  half -knowledge  which  comes  from  reading  books, 
but  by  seeing,  feeling,  doing,  and  being.  He  must 
know  history,  philosophy,  poetry ;  and  life  he  must 
know  by  heart.  He  must  understand  the  laws  of  God, 
be  filled  With  God's  thought,  animated  with  his  feel- 
ing, be  filled  with  truth  and  love.  Expecting  much 
of  himself  he  will  look  for  much  also  from  other  men. 
He  asks  men  to  lend  him  their  ears,  if  he  have  any- 
thing to  teach,  knowing  that  then  he  shall  win  their 
hearts ;  but  if  he  has  nothing  to  offer  he  bids  men  go 
off  where  they  can  be  fed,  and  leave  the  naked  walls 
sepulchral  and  cold  to  tell  him,  "  Sir,  you  have  nothing 
to  say,  you  had  better  be  done !  "  But  he  expects  men 
that  take  his  ideas  for  truth  to  turn  his  words  to  life. 
He  looks  for  corn  as  proof  that  he  sowed  good  seed 
in  the  field ;  he  trusts  men  will  become  better  by  his 
words  —  wiser,  holier,  more  full  of  faith.  He  hopes 
to  see  them  outgrow  him,  till  he  can  serve  them  no 
more,  and  they  come  no  longer  to  his  well  to  draw,  but 
have  found  the  fountain  of  immortal  life  hard  by  their 
own  door;  so  the  good  father  who  has  watched  and 
prayed  over  his  children  longs  to  have  them  set  up  for 
themselves,  and  live  out  their  own  manly  and  indepen- 


CHANNING  133 

dent  life.  He  does  not  ask  honor,  nor  riches,  nor  ease, 
only  to  see  good  men  and  good  works  as  the  result  of 
his  toil.  If  no  such  result  comes  of  a  long  life,  then 
he  knows  either  that  he  has  mistaken  his  calling  or 
failed  of  his  duty. 

We  have  always  looked  on  the  lot  of  a  minister  in  a 
country  town  as  our  ideal  of  a  happy  and  useful  life. 
Not  grossly  poor,  not  idly  rich,  he  is  every  man's 
equal,  and  no  man's  master.  He  is  welcome  every- 
where, if  worthy,  and  may  have  the  satisfaction  that 
he  is  helping  men  to  wisdom,  to  virtue,  to  piety,  to  the 
dearest  joys  of  this  life  and  the  next.  He  can  easily 
know  all  of  his  flock,  be  familiar  with  their  thoughts, 
and  help  them  out  of  their  difficulties  by  his  superior- 
ity of  nature  or  cultivation  or  religious  growth.  The 
great  work  of  education  —  intellectual  and  spiritual 
—  falls  under  his  charge.  He  can  give  due  culture  to 
all ;  but  the  choicer  and  more  delicate  plants,  that  re- 
quire the  nicest  eye  and  hand,  these  are  peculiarly  his 
care.  In  small  societies  eloquence  is  not  to  be  looked 
for  as  in  the  great  congregations  of  a  city,  where  the 
listening  looks  of  hundreds  or  thousands  would  win 
eloquence  almost  out  of  the  stones.  The  ocean  is  al- 
ways sublime  in  its  movements,  but  the  smallest  spring 
under  the  oak  has  beauty  in  its  still  transparence,  and 
sends  its  waters  to  the  sea.  In  cities  the  lot  of  the 
minister  is  far  less  grateful,  his  connections  less  inti- 
mate, less  domestic.  Here,  in  addition  to  the  common 
subjects  of  the  minister's  discourse,  everywhere  the 
same,  the  great  themes  of  society  require  to  be  dis- 
cussed, and  peace  and  war,  freedom  and  slavery,  the 
public  policy  of  states,  and  the  character  of  their  lead- 
ers, come  up  to  the  pulpits  of  a  great  city  to  be  looked 
on  in  the  light  of  Christianity  and  so  judged.     With 


184  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

a  few  hearers  we  see  not  how  a  man  can  fail  to  speak 
simply,  and  with  persuasive  speech ;  before  many, 
speaking  on  such  a  theme  as  reHgion,  which  has  pro^ 
voked  such  wonders  of  art  out  of  the  sculptor,  poet, 
painter,  architect,  we  wonadr  that  every  man  is  not  el- 
oquent. Some  will  pass  by  the  little  spring  nor  heed 
its  unobtrusive  loveliness ;  all  turn  with  wonder  at  the 
ocean's  face,  and  feel  for  a  moment  awed  by  its  sub- 
limity, and  lifted  out  of  their  common  consciousness. 

In  the  nineteenth  century  the  clergy  have  less  rel- 
ative power  than  ever  before  in  Christendom ;  it  is 
partly  their  own  fault,  but  chiefly  the  glory  and  ex- 
cellence of  the  age.  It  has  other  instructors.  But  there 
was  never  a  time  when  a  great  man  rising  in  a  pulpit 
could  so  communicate  his  thoughts  and  sentiments 
as  now ;  a  man  who  should  bear  the  same  relation  to 
this  age  that  Augustine,  Thomas  Aquinas,  and  Bern- 
ard of  Clairvaux  bore  to  their  age,  so  far  overtopping 
men,  would  have  more  influence,  not  less  than  theirs. 
Nations  wait  for  noble  sentiments,  for  generous 
thoughts ;  wait  for  the  discoverer  and  organizer.  The 
machinery  of  the  age  is  ready  to  move  for  him, —  the 
steam-horses,  the  steam-press.  His  audience  has  no 
limit.  Even  now  the  position  of  a  minister  gives  him 
great  advantages.  He  has  a  ready  access  to  men's 
souls,  a  respectful  hearing  from  week  to  week,  and 
constant  dropping  will  wear  the  stones,  how 
much  more  the  hearts  of  men.  The  children  grow  up 
under  his  eye  and  influence. 

All  ministers  stand  on  the  same  level,  and  nothing 
lifts  one  above  another  but  his  genius,  his  culture,  his 
character,  and  his  life.  In  the  pulpit  the  most  dis- 
tinguished birth  avails  nothing ;  the  humblest  origin 
is  no  hindrance.     In  New  England,  in  America,  every- 


CHANNING  135 

where  In  the  world  money  gives  power,  never  more  than 
to-day ;  a  rich  lawyer  or  merchant  finds  himself  more 
respected  for  his  wealth,  and  listened  to  with  greater 
esteem  by  any  audience.  Wealth  arms  him  with  a 
golden  weapon.  It  is  so  in  politics ;  power  is  attracted 
towards  gold.  With  the  minister  it  is  not  so.  If  a 
clergyman  had  all  the  wealth  of  both  the  great 
cardinals  Wolsey  and  Richelieu,  did  he  dwell  in  a 
palace  finer  than  the  Vatican,  all  his  wealth  would 
not  give  him  a  whit  the  more  influence  in  his  pulpit, 
in  sermon,  or  in  prayer.  Henry  Ware  moved  men 
none  the  less  because  he  had  so  little  of  this  world's 
goods.  In  this  way,  therefore,  the  minister's  influ- 
ence is  personal,  not  material.  The  more  he  is  a  man, 
the  more  a  minister. 

In  virtue  of  his  position  he  has  the  best  chance  to 
know  men.  He  overrides  all  distinctions  of  life,  as- 
sociates with  the  humblest  man  as  a  brother,  with  the 
highest  as  their  equal.  If  well  trained,  his  education 
places  him  in  the  circle  of  the  most  cultivated  minds, 
while  his  sympathies  and  his  duty  attract  him  to 
the  lowest  sphere  of  rudeness,  want,  and  perhaps  of 
crime.  He  sees  men  in  joy  and  in  grief,  at  a  wedding 
and  a  funeral,  and  when  flushed  with  hope,  when 
wrung  with  pain,  when  the  soul  bids  earth  farewell. 
If  a  true  man,  the  most  precious  confidence  is  re- 
posed in  him.  He  looks  into  men's  eyes  as  he  speaks, 
and  in  their  varying  faces  reads  their  confession, 
what  they  could  oft  conceal,  both  ill  and  good ;  reads 
sometimes  with  astonished  eyes.  Reader,  you  have 
seen  an  old  coin  worn  smooth  so  that  there  was  no 
mark  on  it,  not  a  letter ;  you  know  not  whence  it  came 
nor  whose  it  is ;  but  you  heat  it  in  the  fire,  and  the 
stamp  of  the  die  is  plain  as  when  the  coin  was  minted 


136  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

first;  you  see  the  image,  read  the  superscription.  So 
the  excitement  of  a  sermon  reveals  the  man's  character 
in  his  oft-unwilHng  face,  and  the  preacher,  astonished, 
renders  unto  Caesar  theVthings  that  are  his,  and  unto 
God  his  own.  Sometimes  one  is  saddened  to  see  the 
miser,  satyr,  worldhng  in  his  many  forms  under  a 
disguise  so  trim  and  neat ;  but  of tener,  perhaps,  sur- 
prised to  find  a  saint  he  knew  not  of  before,  surprised 
at  the  resurrection  of  such  a  soul  from  such  a  tomb. 
The  minister  addresses  men  as  individuals ;  the  lawyer 
must  convince  the  whole  jury,  the  senator  a  majority 
of  the  senate  or  his  work  is  lost,  while  if  the  minister 
convinces  one  man,  or  but  half  convinces  him,  he  has 
still  done  something  which  will  last.  The  merchant 
deals  with  material  things,  the  lawyer  and  the  politi- 
cian commonly  address  only  the  understanding  of 
their  hearers,  sharpening  attention  by  appeals  to  in- 
terest ;  while  the  minister  calls  upon  the  affections, 
addresses  the  conscience,  and  appeals  to  the  religious 
nature  of  man,  to  faculties  which  bind  man  to  his 
race  and  unite  him  with  his  God.  This  gives  him 
a  power  which  no  other  man  aspires  to ;  which  neither 
the  lawyer  nor  the  merchant,  nor  yet  the  politician 
attempts  to  wield,  nay,  which  the  mere  writer  of  books 
leaves  out  of  sight.  In  our  day  we  often  forget  these 
things,  and  suppose  that  the  government  or  the  news- 
papers are  the  arbiters  of  public  opinion,  while  still 
the  pulpit  has  a  mighty  influence.  All  the  politicians 
and  lawyers  in  America  could  not  persuade  men  to  be- 
lieve what  was  contrary  to  common-sense  and  adverse 
to  their  interest ;  but  a  few  preachers,  in  the  name  of 
religion,  made  whole  millions  believe  the  world  would 
perish  on  a  certain  day,  and  now  the  day  is  past  it 
is  hard  for  them  to  believe  their  preachers  were  mis- 
taken ! 


CHANNING 


137 


Now  all  this  might  of  position  and  opportunity 
may  be  used  for  good  or  ill,  to  advance  men  or  retard 
them ;  so  a  great  responsibility  rest  always  on  the 
clergy  of  the  land.  Put  a  heavy  man  in  the  pulpit, 
—  ordinary,  vulgar,  obese,  idle,  inhuman,  and  he 
overlays  the  conscience  of  the  people  with  his  gross- 
ness ;  his  Upas  breath  poisons  every  spiritual  plant 
that  springs  up  within  sight  of  his  church.  Put 
there  a  man  of  only  average  intelligence  and  religion, 
he  does  nothing  but  keep  men  from  sliding  back ;  he 
loves  his  people  and  giveth  his  beloved  sleep.  Put 
there  a  superior  man,  with  genius  for  religion,  nay, 
a  man  of  no  genius,  but  an  active,  intelligent,  human, 
and  pious  man,  who  will  work  for  the  human  race 
with  all  his  mind  and  heart,  and  he  does  wonders ; 
he  loves  his  people  and  giveth  his  beloved  his  own 
:life.  He  looks  out  on  the  wealth,  ignorance,  pride, 
[poverty,  lust,  and  sin  of  the  world,  and  blames  him- 
self for  their  existence.  This  suffering  human  race, 
poor  blind  Bartimasus,  sits  by  the  wayside,  crying  to 
,all  men  of  power,  "  Have  mercy  on  me;  "  the  minister 
says,  "What  wilt  thou?"  he  answers,  "Lord,  that  I 
might  receive  my  sight."  No  man  may  be  idle,  least 
of  all  the  minister;  he  least  of  all  in  this  age,  when 
Bartimaeus  cries  as  never  before. 

Dr.  Channing  was  born  at  Newport  in  Rhode  Island, 
the  7th  of  April,  1780,  and  educated  under  the  most 
favorable  circumstances  which  the  country  then  af- 
forded ;  employed  as  a  private  teacher  for  more  than 
a  year  at  Richmond,  and  settled  as  a  clergyman  in 
Boston  more  than  five  and  forty  years  ago.  Here 
he  labored  in  this  calling,  more  or  less,  for  nearly 
forty  years.  He  was  emphatically  a  Christian  min- 
ister, in  all  the  high  meaning  of  that  term.     He  has 


138  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

had  a  deep  influence  here,  a  wide  influence  in  the 
world.  For  forty  ~years,  though  able  men  have 
planned  wisely  for  this  city,  and  rich  men  bestowed 
their  treasure  for  her  welfare,  founding  valuable  and 
permanent  institutions,  yet  no  one  has  done  so  much 
for  Boston  as  he,  none  contributed  so  powerfully  to 
enhance  the  character  of  her  men  for  religion  and  for 
brotherly  love.  There  is  no  charity  like  the  inspira- 
tion of  great  writers.  There  were  two  excellent  and 
extraordinary  ministers  in  Boston  contemporary  with 
Dr.  Channing,  whose  memory  will  not  soon  depart ; 
we  mean  Buckminster  and  Ware.  But  Dr.  Channing 
was  the  most  remarkable  clergyman  in  America,  yes, 
throughout  all  lands  where  the  English  tongue  is 
spoken,  in  the  nineteenth  century  there  has  been  no 
minister  so  remarkable  as  he,  none  so  powerful  on 
the  whole.  No  clergyman  of  America  ever  exercised 
such  dominion  amongst  men.  Edwards  and  Mayhew 
are  great  names  in  the  American  churches,  men  of 
power,  of  self-denial,  of  toil,  who  have  also  done  ser- 
vice for  mankind ;  but  Channing  has  gone  deeper, 
soared  higher,  seen  further  than  they,  and  set  in  mo- 
tion forces  which  will  do  more  for  mankind. 

What  is  the  secret  of  liis  success.''  Certainly  his 
power  did  not  come  from  his  calling  as  a  clergyman ; 
there  are  some  forty  thousand  clergymen  in  the  United 
States.  We  meet  them  in  a  large  city ;  they  are 
more  known  by  the  name  of  their  church  than  their 
own  name,  more  marked  by  their  cravat  than  their 
character.  Of  all  this  host  not  ten  will  be  at  all 
well  known,  even  in  their  own  city  or  village,  in  a 
hundred  years ;  perhaps  not  one.  Nay,  there  are  not 
twenty  who  are  well  known  in  America  now  even,  out 
of  their  denomination ;  they,  perhaps,  known  by  the 


CHANNING  139 

unlucky  accident  of  some  petty  controversy  rather 
than  by  any  real  eminence  of  character  and  work. 
Who  of  them  is  otherwise  known  to  Europe,  or  even  to 
England?  But  Dr.  Channing  is  well  known  in  Ger- 
many and  France,  his  writings  more  broadly  spread 
in  England  than  in  his  native  land ;  his  power  widens 
continually,  and  deepens  too. 

His  eminence  came  from  no  extraordinary  intel- 
lectual gifts  born  with  him.  Truly  his  was  a  mind 
of  a  high  order.  Yet  it  is  not  difficult  to  find  men  of 
far  more  native  intellectual  force,  both  here  and  every- 
where; and  throughout  all  his  life  in  all  his  writings, 
you  see  the  trace  of  intellectual  deficiencies,  his  de- 
ficiencies as  a  writer,  as  a  scholar,  and  still  more  as 
an  original  and  philosophical  thinker.  Nor  did  it 
come  any  more  from  his  superior  opportunities  for 
education.  True,  those  were  the  best  the  country 
afforded  at  that  time,  though  far  inferior  in  many  re- 
spects, to  what  is  now  abundantly  enjoyed  with  no 
corresponding  result.  In  his  early  culture  there  were 
marked  deficiencies,  the  results  of  which  appear  in  his 
writings  even  to  the  last,  leading  him  to  falter  in  his 
analysis,  leaving  him  uncertain  as  to  his  conclusion, 
and  timid  in  applying  his  ideas  to  practice.  His  was 
not  the  intellect  to  forego  careful  and  laborious  and 
early  training ;  not  an  intellect  to  cultivate  itself, 
browsing  to  the  full  in  scanty  pastures,  where  weaker 
natures  perish  for  lack  of  tender  grass  and  careful 
housing  from  the  cold. 

His  signal  success  came  from  no  remarkable  op- 
portunity for  the  use  of  his  gifts  and  attainments. 
He  was  one  minister  of  the  forty  thousand.  His  own 
pulpit  was  only  higher  than  others,  his  audience  larger 
and  more  influential,  because  he  made  it  so.     His  cleri' 


140  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

cal  brothers  in  his- last  years  hindered  more  than  they 
helped  him ;  his  own  parish  gave  him  no  remarkable 
aid,  and  in  his  best  years  showed  themselves  incapable 
of  receiving  his  highest  instructions,  and  in  the  latter 
part  of  his  life  proved  quite  unworthy  of  so  great  a 
man. 

He  had  none  of  the  qualities  which  commonly  at- 
tract men  at  first  sight.  He  was  little  of  stature,  and 
not  very  well-favored ;  his  bodily  presence  was  weak ; 
his  voice  feeble,  his  tone  and  manner  not  such  as 
strike  the  many.  Beauty  is  the  most  popular  and 
attractive  of  all  things,  a  presence  that  never  tires. 
Dr.  Channing  was  but  slightly  favored  by  the  graces ; 
his  gestures,  intonations,  and  general  manner  would 
have  been  displeasing  in  another.  He  had  nothing 
which  at  first  sight  either  awes  or  attracts  the  care- 
less world.  He  had  no  tricks  and  made  no  com- 
promises. He  never  flattered  men's  pride  nor  their 
idleness,  incarnating  the  popular  religion ;  he  did  not 
storm  or  dazzle ;  he  had  not  the  hardy  intellect  which 
attracts  men  with  only  active  minds,  nor  the  cowardly 
conservatism  which  flatters  propriety  to  sleep  in  her 
pew ;  he  never  thundered  and  lightened,  but  only 
shone  with  calm  and  tranquil  though  varying  light. 
He  had  not  the  social  charm  which  fascinates  and 
attaches  men ;  though  genial,  hospitable,  and  inviting, 
yet  few  came  very  near  him. 

He  was  not  eminently  original,  either  in  thought 
or  in  the  form  thereof;  not  rich  in  ideas.  It  is  true, 
he  had  great  powers  of  speech,  yet  he  had  not  that 
masterly  genius  for  eloquence  which  now  stoop  down 
to  the  ground  and  moulds  the  very  earth  into  argu- 
ments, till  it  seems  as  if  the  stones  and  trees  were  or- 
dained his  colleagues  to  preach  with  him,  obedient  to 


CHANNING  141 

his  Orphic  enchantment ;  not  that  genius  which  reaches 
up  to  the  heavens,  pressing  sun  and  moon  and  each 
particular  star  into  the  service  of  his  thought ;  which 
proves  by  a  diagram,  illustrates  by  a  picture,  making 
the  unwilling  listeners  feel  that  he  had  bribed  the  uni- 
verse to  plead  his  cause;  not  that  rare  poetic  power, 
which  is  born  genius  and  bred  art,  which  teems  with 
sentiments  and  ideas,  clothes  and  adorns  them  with 
language  gathered  from  letters,  nature,  art,  and  com- 
mon life,  grouping  his  family  of  thoughts  as  Raphael 
in  a  picture  paints  the  Madonna,  Joseph,  Baby,  Ass, 
Angel,  Palm-tree,  those  incongruous  things  of  earth 
and  heaven,  all  unified  and  made  harmonious  by  that 
one  enchanting  soul.  He  had  not  that  intellectual, 
wealthy  eloquence,  beautiful  as  roses  yet  strong  as 
steel.  Nor  had  he  the  homely  force  of  Luther,  who 
in  the  language  of  the  farm,  the  shop,  the  boat,  the 
street,  or  nursery,  told  the  high  truths  that  reason  or 
religion  taught,  and  took  possession  of  his  audience 
by  a  storm  of  speech,  then  poured  upon  them  all  the 
riches  of  his  brave  plebian  soul,  baptizing  every  head 
anew ;  a  man  who  with  the  people  seemed  more  mob 
than  they,  and  when  with  kings  the  most  imperial  man. 
He  had  not  the  blunt  terse  st3de  of  Latimer,  nor  his 
beautiful  homeliness  of  speech,  which  is  more  attrac- 
tive than  all  rhetoric.  He  had  not  the  cool  clear 
analysis  of  Dr.  Barrow,  his  prodigious  learning,  his 
close  logic,  his  masculine  sense;  nor  the  graceful 
imagery,  the  unbounded  imagination  of  Jeremy  Tay- 
lor, "  the  Shakespeare  of  divines,"  nor  his  winsome 
way  of  talk  about  piety,  elevating  the  commonest 
events  of  life  to  classic  dignity.  He  had  not  the  hard- 
headed  intellect  of  Dr.  South,  his  skilful  analysis,  his 
conquering  wit,  his  intellectual  wealth ;  no,  he  had  not 


142  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

the  power  of  condensing  his  thoughts  into  the  energetic 
language  of  Webster  —  never  a  word  wrong  or  too 
much  —  or  of  marshalKng  his  forces  in  such  magnifi- 
cently stern  array ;  no,  he  had  not  the  exquisite 
rhythmic  speech  of  Emerson,  that  wonderful  artist 
in  words,  who  unites  manly  strength  with  the  rare 
beauty  of  a  woman's  mind. 

His  eminence  came  from  no  such  gifts  or  graces. 
His  power  came  mainly  from  the  predominating 
strength  of  the  moral  and  religious  element  in  liim. 
He  loved  God  with  his  mind,  his  conscience,  his  affec- 
tions, and  his  soul.  He  had  goodness  and  piety,  both 
in  the  heroic  degree.  His  intellectual  power  seemed 
little,  not  when  compared  with  that  of  other  men,  but 
when  measured  by  his  own  religious  power.  Loving 
man  and  God,  he  loved  truth  and  justice.  He  would 
not  exaggerate;  he  would  not  under-value  what  he 
saw  and  knew,  so  was  not  violent,  was  not  carried 
away  by  his  subject.  He  was  commonly  his  own  mas- 
ter. He  said  nothing  for  effect,  he  never  flattered  the 
prejudice  of  his  audience;  respecting  them,  he  put 
his  high  thought  into  simple  speech,  caught  their  at- 
tention, and  gradually  drew  them  up  to  his  own  eleva- 
tion. 

He  was  ruled  by  conscience  to  a  remarkable  degree, 
almost  demonized  by  conscience,  for  during  a  part  of 
his  life  the  moral  element  seems  despotic,  ruling  at 
the  expense  of  intellect  and  of  natural  joy.  But  that 
period  passed  by,  and  her  rule  became  peaceful  and 
harmonious.  He  loved  nature,  the  sea,  the  sky,  and 
found  new  charms  in  the  sweet  face  of  earth  and 
heaven  as  the  years  went  by  him,  all  his  life.  He  had 
a  keen  sense  of  beauty  —  beauty  in  nature,  in  art,  in 
speech,  in  manners,  in  man   and  woman's   face.     He 


CHANNING  143 

loved  science,  he  loved  letters,  and  he  loved  art ;  but 
all  of  these  affections  were  overmastered  by  his  love 
of  man  and  God,' —  means  to  that  end,  or  little  flowers 
that  bordered  the  pathway  where  goodness  and  piety 
walked  hand  in  hand.  This  supremacy  of  the  moral 
and  religious  element  was  the  secret  of  his  strength, 
and  it  gave  him  a  peculiar  power  over  men,  one  which 
neither  Luther  nor  Latimer  ever  had ;  no,  nor  Barrow, 
nor  Taylor,  nor  South,  nor  Webster,  nor  Emerson. 

He  had  a  large  talent  for  religion,  and  so  was  fitted 
to  become  an  exponent  of  the  higher  aspirations  of  man- 
kind in  his  day  and  in  times  to  come.  He  asked  for 
truth,  for  religion.  He  was  always  a  seeker,  his 
whole  life  "  a  process  of  conversion."  Timid  and 
self-distrustful,  slow  of  inquiry  and  cautious  to  a 
fault,  always  calculating  the  effect  before  fraterniz- 
ing with  a  cause,  he  had  the  most  unflinching  confi- 
dence in  justice  and  in  truth,  in  man's  power  to  per- 
ceive and  receive  both. 

Loving  man  and  God,  he  loved  freedom  in  all  its 

legitimate   forms,   and   so   became   a   champion   in   all 

the  combats   of  the  day  where   rights  were  called  in 

question.     He  hated  the  chains  of  old  bondage,  and 

moved  early  in  the  Unitarian  reformation ;  but  when 

the  Unitarian  party  became  a  sect  and  narrow  like  the 

rest,  when  it  also  came  to  stand  in  the  way  of  man- 

,kind  he  became  "little  of  a  Unitarian,"  and  cared  no 

I  more   for   that   sect   than    for   the    Trinitarians.     He 

I  could  not  be  blind  to  the  existence  of  religion  in  all 

[sects,  and  did  not  quarrel  with  other  men's  goodness 

and  piety  because  he  could  not  accept  their  theology. 

He  was   not   born    or   bred   for  a   sectarian ;    such   as 

[were  he  did  not  hate,  but  pity.     He  engaged  in  the 

[various  reforms  of  the  day ;  he  labored  for  the  cause 


14^  ^        THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

of  peace,  for  temperance,  for  the  improvement  of 
prisons,  for  the  aboHtion  of  imprisonment  for  debt, 
for  education,  for  the  general  welfare  of  men  by 
elevating  the  most  exposed  classes  of  society.  He  was 
an  eminent  advocate  for  the  abolition  of  slavery. 

We  do  not  mean  to  say  that  he  committed  no  errors, 
that  he  never  faltered.  He  had  his  imperfections 
and  weaknesses,  which  we  shall  presently  consider ; 
sometimes  he  was  over-timid,  and  seems  to  have  allowed 
meaner  men  to  prevail  over  him  with  their  counsels, 
their  littleness,  and  their  fears.  A  sick  body  often 
enfeebled  his  mind  and  sometimes  his  courage.  So  he 
never  stood  in  the  foremost  rank  of  any  reform, 
speculative  or  practical.  This  is  partly  owing  to  the 
causes  just  hinted  at;  in  part,  also,  to  his  want  of 
originality. 

He  was,  we  think,  the  fairest  model  of  a  good  min- 
ister known  to  the  public  or  his  age.  He  preached 
what  he  knew  and  he  lived  what  he  preached.  He  had 
a  profound  confidence  in  God,  not  in  God  merely  as  an 
abstraction,  the  abstract  power,  wisdom,  and  love ;  but 
as  that  abstraction  becomes  concrete  through  Provi- 
dence and  reveals  itself  in  the  course  of  nature,  men, 
nations,  and  the  world.  He  had  also  and  accordingly 
a  profound  respect  for  man  and  profound  confidence 
in  man,  not  for  great  men,  rich  men,  and  cultivated 
men  alone,  but  for  man  as  man,  for  all  men ;  he  did 
not  despise  the  proud,  the  ignorant,  the  wicked.  He 
had  a  deep  reverence  for  God  and  for  man ;  this  gave 
him  eloquence  when  he  spoke,  gave  him  his  name 
among  men,  and  gave  him  his  power. 

A  good  deal  of  his  earlier  preaching,  it  is  said,  re- 
lated to  abstract  matters,  to  ideas,  to  sentiments,  to 
modes    of   mind.     Men    complained    that   he    did    not 


CHANNING  145 

touch  the  ground.  He  spoke  of  God,  of  the  soul,  the 
dignity  of  human  nature ;  of  love  to  God,  to  men ;  of 
justice,  charity,  of  freedom,  and  holiness  of  heart ;  he 
spoke  of  sin,  of  fear,  of  alienation  from  God.  Years 
ago  we  remember  to. have  heard  murmurs  at  his  ab- 
stract style  of  thought  and  speech ;  it  went  over  men's 
heads,  said  some.  But  his  abstractions  he  translated 
into  the  most  concrete  forms.  Respect  for  God  be- 
came obedience  to  his  laws ;  faith  in  God  was  faith  in 
keeping  them ;  human  nature  was  so  great  and  so 
dignified,  the  very  noblest  work  of  God,  and  therefore 
society  must  respect  that  dignit}^  and  conform  to  that 
nature ;  there  must  be  no  intemperance,  and  men  who 
grow  rich  by  poisoning  their  brothers  must  renounce 
their  wicked  craft ;  there  must  be  no  war,  for  its 
glory  is  human  shame,  and  its  soldiers  only  butchers 
of  men ;  there  must  be  education  for  all,  for  human  na- 
ture is  a  thing  too  divine  for  men  to  leave  in  ignorance, 
and  therefore  in  vice,  and  crime,  and  sin ;  there  must 
be  no  pauperism,  no  want,  but  society  must  be  so  re- 
constructed that  Christianity  becomes  a  fact,  and  there 
are  no  idle  men  who  steal  their  living  out  of  the  world, 
none  overburdened  with  excessive  toil,  no  riot,  no  waste, 
no  idleness,  and  so  no  want ;  there  must  be  no  op- 
pression of  class  by  class,  but  the  strong  are  to  help 
the  weak,  the  educated  to  instruct  the  rude ;  there 
must  be  no  slavery,  for  that  is  the  consummation  of 
all  wrongs  against  the  dignity  of  human  nature.  So 
his  word  became  incarnate,  and  the  most  abstract 
preacher  in  the  land,  the  most  mystical  in  his  piety, 
and,  as  it  seemed  at  first,  the  furthest  removed  from 
practice,  comes  down  to  actual  sins  and  toils  for  hu- 
man needs. 

Then  came  the  same  grumblers,  murmuring  to  an- 
il—10 


146  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

other  tune,  and  said,  "  When  Dr.  Channing  used  to 
preach  about  God  and  the  soul,  about  hohness  and 
sin,  we  Hked  him,  that  was  Christianity.  But  now 
he  is  always  insisting  on  some  reform,  talking  about 
intemperance,  and  war,  and  slavery,  or  telling  us  that 
we  must  remove  the  evils  of  society  and  educate  all 
men ;  we  wish  Dr.  Channing  would  preach  the  Gos- 
pel." Thus  reasoned  men,  for  their  foolish  hearts 
were  darkened.  The  old  spirit  of  bondage  opposed 
him  when  with  other  good  men  he  asked  of  Galvanism, 
"  Give  us  freedom,  that  we  may  go  in  and  out  before 
the  Lord,  and  find  truth."  But  the  new  spirit  of  bond- 
age opposed  him  just  as  much  when  he  came  up  with 
others,  and  asked  for  the  same  thing.  Each  reform 
he  engaged  in  got  him  new  foes.  The  Tories  of  the 
church  hated  him  because  he  asked  for  more  truth; 
the  Tories  of  the  state  hated  him  because  he  asked  for 
more  justice;  the  Tories  of  society  hated  him  because 
in  the  name  of  man  and  God  he  demanded  more  love ! 
Yet  he  silently  prevailed  against  all  these ;  new  truth, 
new  justice,  new  love,  came  into  the  churches,  into 
the  state,  into  society,  and  now  those  very  Tories 
think  him  an  honor  to  all  three,  and  claim  him  as  their 
friend  !     Such  is  the  mystery  of  truth ! 

We  have  just  said  he  never  stood  in  the  van  of  any 
reform  —  his  lack  of  originality,  his  feeble  health, 
his  consequent  caution  and  timidity,  hindering  him 
from  that ;  yet  there  was  scarcely  a  good  work  or  a 
liberal  thought  in  his  time,  coming  within  his  range, 
which  he  did  not  aid,  and  powerfully  aid.  True,  he 
commonly  came  late,  but  he  always  came  and  he  never 
went  back.  He  was  one  of  the  leaders  of  new  thought 
in  the  new  world  and  the  old. 

How  strange  is  the  progress  of  men  on  their  march 


I 


CHANNING  147 

through  time,  a  democracy !  how  few  are  the  leaders ! 
So  a  caravan  passes  slowly  on  in  the  Arabian  wilder- 
ness, the  men  and  the  women,  the  asses  and  the  camels. 
There  is  dust,  and  noise,  and  heat,  the  scream  of  the 
camels  and  the  asses'  bray,  the  shouts  of  the  drivers, 
the  songs  of  the  men,  the  prattle  of  the  women,  the 
repinings  and  the  gossip,  the  brawls  and  the  day- 
dreams, the  incongruous  murmur  of  a  great  multi- 
tude. There  are  stragglers  in  front,  in  flank,  in  rear. 
But  there  are  always  some  who  know  the  landmarks  by 
day,  the  sky-marks  by  night,  the  special  providence 
of  the  pilgrimage,  who  direct  the  march,  giving  little 
heed  to  the  brawls  or  the  gossips,  the  scream,  or  the 
bray,  or  the  song.  They  lift  up  a  censer,  which  all  day 
long  sends  up  its  column  of  smoke,  and  all  the  night 
its  fiery  pillar,  to  guide  the  promiscuous  pilgrimage. 

The  work  before  us  is  well  named  "  Memoirs  "  of 
Dr.  Channing.  It  is  not  a  life,  it  is  almost  wholly 
autobiographical ;  we  learn,  however,  from  the  book 
a  few  facts  relating  to  his  life  not  related  by  himself. 
It  appears  that  when  a  boy  he  was  "  a  remarkable 
wrestler,"  fond  of  "  adventurous  sports ;  "  that  he  once 
"flogged  a  boy  larger  than  himself"  for  some  injus- 
tice ;  that  in  boyhood  he  was  called  "  little  King 
Pepin,"  and  "  the  Peacemaker ;  "  that  he  was  distin- 
guished for  courage,  and  once  off*ered  to  go  and  sleep 
on  board  a  ship  at  Newport  which  was  said  to  be 
haunted.  He  was  studious  and  thoughtful,  naturally 
pious,  a  lover  of  truth  and  justice.  At  college  he  was 
studious,  yet  mirthful,  and  excelled  in  the  athletic 
sports  of  his  companions.  He  soon  became  disgusted 
with  the  gloomy  doctrines  of  Calvinism. 

He  early  saw  some  of  the  contradictions  in  society. 
"  When  I  was  young,"  says  he,  "  the  luxury  of  eat- 


^ 


148  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ing  was  carried  to  the  greatest  excess.  My  first  no- 
tion, indeed,  of  glory  was  attached  to  an  old  black 
cook  whom  I  saw  to  be  the  most  important  personage 
in  town."  He  was  grave  and  reflective,  fond  of  lonely 
rambles  by  the  sea-shore.  His  early  life  was  sad, 
and  each  year  of  his  course  seemed  brighter  than  the 
last.  His  character  was  shaped  more  by  his  own  soli- 
tary thought  than  the  influence  of  companions.  In 
body,  when  a  child,  "  he  was  small  and  delicate,  yet 
muscular  and  active,  with  a  very  erect  person,  quick 
movement,  a  countenance  that  while  sedate  was  cheer- 
ful ;  "  "  an  open,  brave,  and  generous  boy."  He  was 
eminent  at  college,  and  graduated  at  Cambridge  in  his 
nineteenth  year  with  distinguished  honors. 

He  served  for  one  or  two  years  as  a  private  tutor 
in  a  family  at  Richmond,  and  lost  his  health,  which  he 
never  fully  recovered.  He  seriously  set  himself  about 
the  work  of  self-improvement  at  an  early  age,  and 
diligently  continued  it  all  his  life.  At  the  age  of 
twenty-three  he  began  to  preach.  "  His  preaching  at 
once  attracted  attention  for  its  power,  solemnity,  and 
beauty."  On  the  first  of  June,  1803,  he  was  ordained 
as  minister  of  the  church  in  Federal  street,  Boston ; 
"  a  pale,  spiritual-looking  young  man." 

At  that  time  he  was  serious  in  his  deportment  to  a 
degree  that  seemed  oppressive. 

"  He  had  the  air  of  one  absorbed  in  his  own  contemplations, 
and  looked  care-worn,  weary,  and  anxious.  Society  seemed 
distasteful,  he  joined  but  little  in  conversation;  took  his  meals 
in  haste;  was  retired  in  his  ways,  lived  mostly  in  his  study, 
appeared  rather  annoyed  than  pleased  with  visitors,  seldom 
went  abroad,  declining,  when  possible,  all  invitations;  and,  in 
a  word,  was  most  content  when  left  uninterruptedly  to  him- 
self. There  was  sweetness  in  his  looks  and  words,  however; 
solemn  counsels  were  gently  given,  and  an  atmosphere  of  holi- 
ness threw  a  winning  charm  over  his  conversation  and  con- 
duct." 


CHANNING  149 

He  says  himself, 

"  In  the  early  years  of  my  ministry,  ill  health  and  a  deep 
consciousness  of  imworthiness  took  away  my  energy  and  hope, 
and  I  had  almost  resolved  to  quit  my  profession.  My  brother 
Francis  begged  me  to  persevere,  to  make  a  fairer  trial;  and  to 
his  influence  I  owe  very  much  the  continuance  of  labors  which, 
I  hope,  have  not  been  useless  to  myself  or  to  others." 

High  expectations  were  naturally  formed  of  such 
a  man. 

"  The  devoutly  disposed  in  the  community  looked  to  him  with 
the  hope  that  he  might  be  a  means  of  fanning  once  more  to 
flame  the  smoldering  ashes  on  the  altars  of  piety.  The  seri- 
ousness of  his  deportment,  the  depth  and  sweetness  of  his 
voice,  the  pathos  with  which  he  read  the  Scriptures  and  sacred 
poetry,  the  solemnity  of  his  appeals,  his  rapt  and  kindling 
enthusiasm,  his  humble,  trustful  spirit  of  prayer,  his  subdued 
feeling,  so  expressive  of  personal  experience,  made  religion 
a  new  realit}^;  while  his  whole  air  and  look  of  spirituality  won 
them  to  listen  by  its  mild  and  somewhat  melancholy  beauty. 
The  most  trifling  saw  in  him  a  man  thoroughly  in  earnest,  who 
spoke  not  of  dreams  and  fictions,  but  of  facts  with  which  he 
was  intimately  conversant;  and  the  serious  gladly  welcomed 
one  who  led  the  way  and  beckoned  them  nearer  to  the  holy  of 
hohes  which  they  aspired  to  enter.  Intellectual  people,  too, 
were  attracted  by  the  power  and  grace  of  his  pulpit  addresses. 
He  opened  to  them  a  large  range  of  thought,  presented  clear, 
connected,  and  complete  views  of  various  topics,  roused  their 
faculties  of  discernment  by  nice  discriminations  and  exact  state- 
ments, and  gratified  their  taste  by  the  finished  simplicity  of  his 
style.  But  the  novelty,  perhaps,  that  chiefly  stirred  his  audi- 
ences was  the  directness  with  which  he  even  then  brought  his 
Christian  principles  to  bear  upon  actual  life.  With  no  flights 
of  mystic  exaltation,  forgetful  in  raptures  of  the  earth,  with 
no  abstract  systems  of  metaphysical  theology,  with  no  coldly 
elegant  moral  essays,  did  he  occupy  the  minds  of  his  hearers, 
but  with  near  and  sublime  objects  made  evident  by  faith,  with 
lucid  truths  approved  alike  by  Scripture  and  by  conscience, 
and  with  duties  pressed  urgently  home  upon  all  as  rules  for 
daily  practice.  He  saw,  and  made  others  see,  that  life  was  no 
play-place,  but  a  magnificent  scene  for  glorifying  God,  and  a 
rich  school  for  the  education  of  spirits.  He  showed  to  men 
the    substance    of     which    surrounding    appearances    are    the 


150  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

shadow,  and  behind  transient  experiences  revealed  the  spiritual 
laws  which  they  express.  Thus  he  gathered  round  him  an  en- 
larging circle  of  devoted  friends,  who  gratefully  felt  that  they 
drank  in  from  him  new  life.  The  old  members  of  the  society, 
too,  for  the  most  part  simple  people  of  plain  manners,  took 
the  heartiest  delight  in  his  services,  while  feeling  just  pride  in 
his  talents.  And  the  few  distinguished  persons  of  the  congre- 
gation knew  well  how  to  appreciate  his  rare  gifts,  and  to  ex- 
tend his   fame." 

"  Thus  passed  the  first  ten  years  and  more  of  Mr.  Chan- 
ning's  ministerial  life.  They  were  uneventful,  but  inwardly 
rich  in  results;  and  many  good  seeds  then  planted  themselves, 
which  were  afterward  to  bear  abundant  fruits.  Inherited 
errors,  too,  not  a  few,  in  thought  and  practice,  had  been  slowly 
outgrown,  so  slowly,  that  he  was  perhaps  unconscious  of  the 
change  which  had  been  wrought  in  his  principles.  Above  all, 
he  had  learned  the  lesson  of  keeping  true  to  his  purest,  high- 
est self,  or,  to  express  the  same  fact  more  humbly  and  justly, 
of  being  obedient  to  the  Divine  will,  however  revealed  to  his 
inmost  reason.  Goodness  had  firmly  enthroned  itself  as  the 
reigning  power  in  his  nature.  He  lived  the  life  communicated 
from  above.  He  was  becoming  yearly  and  daily  more  and 
more  a  child  of  God. 

*'  From  his  very  entrance  on  a  public  career  he  produced  upon 
all  who  came  into  his  presence  the  impression  of  matured  virtue 
and  wisdom,  and  inspired  reverence  though  yoimg.  He  wore 
an  air  of  dignity  and  self-command,  of  pure  elevation  of  pur- 
pose, and  of  calm  enthusiasm  that  disarmed  familiarity.  Care- 
ful of  the  rights  of  others,  courteous  and  gentle,  he  allowed  no 
intrusions  upon  himself.  He  was  deaf  to  flattery,  turned  at 
once  from  any  mention  of  his  own  services  or  position,  paid  no 
compliments,  and  would  receive  none;  but,  by  constant  refer- 
ence to  high  standards  of  right,  transferred  the  thoughts  of 
those  with  whom  he  held  intercourse  from  personal  vanity  to 
intrinsic  excellence,  and  from  individual  claims  to  universal 
principles.  He  gave  no  time  to  what  was  unimportant,  made 
demands  upon  the  intellect  and  conscience  of  those  he  talked 
with,  and  inspired  them  with  a  sense  of  the  substantial  realities 
of  existence.  In  his  treatment  of  others  there  was  no  pre- 
sumption nor  partiality.  He  was  deferential  to  old  and  young, 
listened  without  interruption  and  with  patience,  even  to  the  dull 
and  rude,  spoke  ill  of  none,  and  would  hear  no  ill-speaking, 
tolerated  no  levity,  but  at  once  overawed  and  silenced  it  by 
wise  and  generous  suggestions;  was  never  hasty,  rash,  nor 
impetuous  in  word  or  act,  and  met  these  weaknesses  in  others 


CHANNING  151 

with  an  undisturbed  firmness  that  disarmed  passion  while  re- 
buking it.  Above  all,  he  recognized  in  his  fellows  no  distinc- 
tions but  those  of  character  and  intelligence,  and,  quietly  dis- 
regarding capricious  estimates  and  rules  of  mere  etiquette,  met 
rich  and  poor,  learned  and  ignorant,  upon  the  broad  ground 
of  mutual  honor  and  kindness.  Thus  his  influence  was  always 
sacred  and  sanctifying." 

But  we  must  pass  rapidly  where  we  would  gladly 
delay  our  readers.  His  health  became  feebler ;  he 
visited  Europe  in  1822,  and  was  but  little  better  in 
1824.  A  colleague  was  settled  with  him ;  then,  freed 
from  the  necessity  of  producing  one  or  two  sermons 
a  week,  he  was  enabled  to  devote  more  time  to  other 
concerns,  to  direct  all  his  efforts  to  objects  of  great 
importance.  Hereafter  his  position  was  highly  favor- 
able to  literary  activity  and  extensive  influence.  He 
became  "  less  ministerial  and  more  manly."  His  in- 
terest in  the  great  concerns  of  mankind  continued  to 
increase.  All  his  important  works  were  written  after 
this  period.  Yet  he  was  still  deeply  interested  in  the 
ministry,  though  he  did  not  accept  the  popular  views 
of  that  profession. 

"  I  consider  my  profession  as  almost  infinitely  raised  above 
all  others,  when  its  true  nature  is  understood,  and  its  true 
spirit  imbibed.  But  as  it  is  too  often  viewed  and  followed,  it 
seems  to  me  of  little  worth  to  him  who  exercises  it,  or  to  those 
on  whom  it  ought  to  act.  But  when  taken  up  for  its  respecta- 
bility, for  reputation,  for  a  support,  and  followed  mechanically, 
drudgingly,  with  little  or  no  heartiness  and  devotion,  or  when 
seized  upon  fanatically  and  with  a  blind  and  bigoted  zeal,  I 
think  as  poorly  of  it  as  men  of  the  world  do,  who,  I  grieve  to 
say,  have  had  too  much  reason  for  setting  us  ministers  down 
among  the  drones  of  the  hive  of  society 

"  My  mind  turns  much  on  the  general  question,  what  can  be 
done  for  the  scattering  of  the  present  darkness?  I  think  I  see, 
more  and  more,  that  the  ministry,  as  at  present  exercised, 
though,  on  the  whole,  a  good,  is  sadly  defective.  What  would 
be  the  result  of  a  superior  man,  not  of  the  clergy,  giving  a 
course  of  lectures  on  the  teaching  of  Jesus,  just  as  he  would 


152  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

give  one  on  the  philosophy  of  Socrates  or  Plato?  Cannot  this 
subject  be  taken  out  of  the  hands  of  ministers?  Cannot  the 
higher  minds  be  made  to  feel  that  Christianity  belongs  to  them 
as  truly  as  to  the  priest,  and  that  they  disgrace  and  degrade 
themselves  by  getting  their  ideas  of  it  from  '  our  order '  so 
exclusively?  Cannot  learned  men  come  to  Christianity,  just  as 
to  any  other  system,  for  the  purpose  of  ascertaining  what 
it  is?" 

"  At  the  present  day,  there  is  little  need  of  cautioning  min- 
isters against  rashness  in  reproving  evil.  The  danger  is  all 
on  the  other  side.  As  a  class,  they  are  most  slow  to  give  of- 
fence. Their  temptation  is  to  sacrifice  much  to  win  the  af- 
fections of  their  people.  Too  many  satisfy  themselves  with 
holding  together  a  congregation  by  amenity  of  manners,  and 
by  such  compromises  with  prevalent  evils  as  do  not  involve  open 
criminality.  They  live  by  the  means  of  those  whose  vices  they 
should  reprove,  and  thus  are  continually  ensnared  by  a  selfish 
prudence.  Is  it  said  that  they  have  families  dependent  upon 
them,  who  may  suffer  for  their  fidelity?  I  answer.  Let  no 
minister  marry,  then,  unless  the  wife  he  chooses  have  such  a 
spirit  of  martj^rdom  as  would  make  her  prefer  to  be  stinted 
in  daily  bread  rather  than  see  her  husband  sacrifice  one  jot 
or  tittle  of  his  moral  independence.  Is  it  said  that  congre- 
gations would  be  broken  up  by  perfect  freedom  in  the  min- 
isters? Better  far  would  it  be  to  preach  to  empty  pews,  or 
in  the  meanest  halls,  and  there  to  be  a  fearless,  disinterested 
witness  to  the  truth,  than  to  hold  forth  to  crowds  in  gorgeous 
cathedrals,  honored  and  courted,  but  not  daring  to  speak  one's 
honest  convictions,  and   awed  by  the  world." 

"  The  erroneous  views  which  doomed  the  Catholic  clergy  to 
celibacy  are  far  from  being  banished  from  Protestantism.  The 
minister  is  too  holy  for  business  or  politics.  He  is  to  preach 
creeds  and  abstractions.  He  may  preach  ascetic  notions  about 
pleasures  and  amusements,  for  his  official  holiness  has  a  tinge 
of  asceticism  in  it,  and  people  hear  patiently  what  it  is  under- 
stood they  will  not  practise.  But  if  he  '  come  down,'  as  it  is 
called,  from  these  heights,  and  assail  in  sober  earnest  deep- 
rooted  abuses,  respectable  vices,  inhuman  institutions,  or  ar- 
rangements, and  unjust  means  of  gain,  which  interest,  pride 
and  habit  have  made  dear  and  next  to  universal,  the  people 
who  exact  from  him  official  holiness  are  shocked,  offended. 
'  He  forgets  his  sphere.'  Not  only  the  people,  but  his  brother- 
ministers,  are  apt  to  think  this;  and  they  do  so  not  mainly  from 
a  time-serving  spirit,  not  from  dread  of  offending  the  people, — 
though  this  motive  too  often  operates, —  but  chiefly  from  false 


CHANNING  153 

notions  about  the  ministry,  its  comprehensive  purpose,  its  true 
spirit,  which  is  an  all-embracing  humanity.  Ministers  in  gen- 
eral are  narrow-minded  and  superstitious,  rather  than  servile. 
Their  faults  are  those  of  the  times,  and  they  are  more  free 
from  these,  perhaps,  than  most  of  the  people.  And  are  they 
not  becoming  less  and  less  ministers,  and  more  and  more 
men?" 

He  continued  to  preach  from  time  to  time  during 
the  greater  part  of  his  life. 

All  Dr.  Channing's  most  important  writings  may  be 
arranged  in  three  classes, —  Reviews,  essays,  and  ser- 
mons or  addresses.      His  reviews,  however,  are  not  so 
much  accounts  of  books  as  of  men.     The  articles  on 
Milton,  Fenelon  and  Bonaparte  comprise  the  most  im- 
portant part  of  the  first  class.     They  were  published 
in  1826  and  the  three  subsequent  years,  and  are  valu- 
able specimens  of  this  kind  of  composition.     They  es- 
tablished his  fame  as  a  writer  both  at  home  and  abroad. 
•But  for  ability  of  thought,  for  strength  and  beauty 
of  expression,  they  will  not  bear  comparison  with  the 
best  pieces   of   Carlyle  or  even   of  Macaulay,  not  to 
[mention  other  and  humbler  names.     Milton  and  Fene- 
[lon  he  appreciates  justly,  and  these  two  articles  are 
perhaps    the    most    finished    productions    of   his    pen, 
I  when  regarded  morely  as  pieces  of  composition.     They 
indicate,  however,  no  very  great  depth  of  thought  or 
[width  of  observation ;  the  style  is  clear,  pleasing,  and 
[in   general   beautiful.     The   article   on   Napoleon   has 
'certainly  great  merits;  considering  the  time  and  cir- 
icumstances  under  which  it  was  written,  its  defects  are 
tby  no  means  so  numerous  as  might  reasonably  have 
[been  looked  for.     In  his  later  years  he  felt  its  imper- 
fections, but  it  is  still,  we  think,  the  fairest  estimate 
•of  the  man  in  the  English  language,  though  full  jus- 
itice  is  not  done  to  Napoleon  as  a  statesman  and  a  law- 


154.  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

giver.  In  some  passages  the  style  is  elevated  and 
sublime,  in  others  it  becomes  diffuse,  wordy,  and 
tedious.  The  peculiar  charm  of  these  three  articles 
consists  in  the  beautiful  sentiment  of  religion  which 
pervades  them  all.  This,  indeed,  as  a  golden  thread 
runs  through  all  his  works,  giving  unity  to  his  re- 
views,  essays,  sermons,  letters,   and  conversation. 

His  essays  are  more  elaborate  compositions.  They 
treat  of  the  subject  of  slavery  and  its  kindred  themes, 
the  abolitionists,  annexation  of  Texas,  emancipation, 
the  duty  of  the  free  states  in  regard  to  slavery.  Sev- 
eral of  these  essays  are  in  the  form  of  letters.  They 
are  his  most  important  and  valuable  productions. 
They  have  been  extensively  read  in  America  and 
Europe,  and  have  brought  him  more  enemies  than  all 
his  other  writings.  Here  Dr.  Channing  appears  as 
a  reformer.     His  biographer  says, 

"  Temperament  and  training,  religious  aspirations  and 
philosophical  views,  above  all  the  tendencies  of  the  times,  con- 
spired to  make  Dr.  Channing  a  social  reformer;  although  the 
loftiness  of  his  desires  and  aims,  the  delicacy  of  his  feelings, 
the  refinement  of  his  tastes,  his  habits  of  contemplative  thought, 
and  his  reverence  for  individual  freedom  enveloped  him  in  a 
sphere  of  courteous  reserve  and  guarded  him  from  familiar 
contact  with  all  rude  radicalism." 

We  shall  never  forget  the  remarks  made  by  men 
of  high  social  standing  at  the  publication  of  the  Es- 
say on  Slavery.  They  condemned  both  it  and  its 
author.  He  was  "  throwing  firebrands  ;  "  "  meddling 
with  matters  which  clergymen  had  no  right  to  touch ;  " 
—  as  all  important  matters,  we  suppose,  belong  to 
pettifogging  lawyers,  who  can  never  see  through  a 
precedent  or  comprehend  a  principle,  or  to  politicians, 
who  make  "  regular  nominations "  and  adhere  to 
them,  or  else  to  editors  of  partisan  newspapers ;  "  he 


CHANNING  155 

will  make  the  condition  of  the  slaves  a  great  deal 
worse,"  "  and  perhaps  produce  an  insurrection." 
This  offense  was  never  forgiven  him  in  Boston,  and 
he  continued  to  increase  it  till  the  very  period  of  his 
death.  His  anti-slavery  views  struck  a  death-blow 
to  his  popularity  here.  His  zeal  for  the  poor,  the  in- 
temperate, the  criminal,  the  ignorant,  extraordinary 
as  it  was,  could  be  suffered ;  it  was  not  wholly  unmin- 
isterial,  and  was  eminently  scriptural, —  but  zeal  for 
the  slave,  that  was  too  much  to  be  borne.  The  first 
publication,  in  1835,  has  had  a  wide  influence  and  a 
good  one.  The  essay  is  not  very  philosophical  in  its 
arrangement,  but  the  matter  is  well  treated,  with  clear- 
ness and  force ;  the  wrong  of  slavery  is  ably  shown. 
High  motives  are  always  addressed  in  this,  as  in  all 
his  productions.  But  we  have  one  word  of  criticism 
to  make  on  Dr.  Channing  as  an  abolitionist.  In  his 
first  essay  and  his  subsequent  writings  he  distinctly 
separates  himself  from  the  abolitionists  who  contend 
for  "  immediate  emancipation."  He  passed  severe 
censures  upon  them,  censured  their  motto  of  "  im- 
mediate emancipation,"  their  method  of  acting  by  "  a 
system  of  affiliated  societies,"  gave  countenance  to  the 
charge  that  they  were  exciting  the  slaves  to  revolt. 
He  condemned  their  "  denunciations."  This  was  at  a 
time  when  the  abolitionists  were  not  a  hundredth  part 
so  numerous  as  now ;  when  the  pulpit,  the  press,  and 
the  parlor  rang  with  denunciations  against  them ;  when 
their  property,  their  persons,  and  their  lives  were  not 
safe  in  Boston.  Now  we  have  no  fault  to  find  with 
criticism  directed  against  the  abolitionists,  no  fear  of 
severity.  But  at  a  time  when  they  were  few  in  num- 
ber, a  body  of  men  whom  many  affected  to  despise  be- 
cause they  hated,  and  hated  because  they  feared ;  when 


156  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

they  were  poor  and  insulted,  yet  manfully  struggling 
against  oppression,  equal  to  either  fate ;  when  the 
church  only  opened  her  mouth  to  drown  the  voice  of 
the  fugitiA^e  crying  to  God  for  justice;  when  the  state, 
which  had  had  but  one  president  who  spoke  against 
slavery,  and  he  a  man  who  sold  the  children  of  his 
own  body,^  '  riveted  the  fetters  still  closer  on  the  slave's 
limbs ;  at  a  time  when  the  press  of  the  South  and  the 
North,  political  or  sectarian  —  but  always  commer- 
cial, low,  corrupt,  and  marketable  —  said  not  one  word 
for  the  millions  of  slaves  whose  chains  the  state  made 
and  the  church  christened ;  when  no  man  in  Congress 
either  wished  or  dared  to  oppose  slavery  therein,  and 
no  petitions  could  get  a  hearing;  when  the  governor 
even  of  Massachusetts  ^  could  recommend  to  her  legis- 
lature inquiries  for  preventing  freedom  of  speech  on 
that  subject;  at  a  time  when  the  abolitionists  were 
the  only  men  that  cared  or  dared  to  speak ;  at  a  time, 
too,  when  they  were  mobbed  In  the  streets ;  when  an  as- 
sembly of  women  was  broken  up  by  "  respectable " 
violence,  and  the  authorities  of  the  city  dared  not 
resist  the  mob  ^ ;  when  a  symbolical  gallows  was  erected 
at  night  in  front  of  the  house  of  the  leading  abolition- 
ist of  America,  "  by  the  order  of  Judge  Lynch,^  "  and 
a  price  of  five  thousand  dollars  set  on  his  head  by  the 
governor  of  Georgia  ^  —  why,  such  criticism  was  at 
least  a  little  out  of  season !  Had  the  abolitionists 
been  guilty  of  denunciations?  —  in  1817,  when  a  min- 
ister preaching  In  Boston  ^  "  actually  vilified  the  char- 
acter of  the  Liberal  clergy  in  the  most  wholesale  man- 
ner," Dr.  Channing  "  directed  all  his  remarks  to 
softening  the  feelings  of  those  who  were  aggrieved. 
'  I  cannot  blame  this  stranger  so  severely,' 
said    he;    'these    harsh    judgments    never    originated 


CHANNING  157 

from   himself How    sad    Is    controversy, 

that  it  should  thus  tempt  our  opponents  to  misrepre- 
sent men  when  they  might  and  should  know  better.'  " 
Yet  here  the  difference  between  the  stranger  and  the 
Liberal  clergy  related  only  to  a  matter  of  theological 
opinion,  not  to  the  freedom  of  millions  of  men.  We 
dislike  denunciation  as  much  as  most  men,  but  we 
wish  it  was  peculiar  to  the  abolitionists ;  denunciation 
is  the  commonest  thing  in  politics,  the  weapon  of 
Democrats  and  Whigs  ;  the  pulpits  ring  with  its  noise ; 
the  Unitarians  are  denounced  as  "  infidels  "  to  this 
day  "^ ;  and  who  does  not  know  it  is  the  fashion  of  whole 
churches  to  denounce  mankind  at  large  as  "  totally 
depraved,"  "  capable  of  no  good  thing,"  "  subject  to 
the  wrath  of  God,"  "  and  deserving  eternal  damna- 
tion." If  these  terms  mean  anything  they  amount  to 
denunciation.  If  by  denunciation  is  meant  violent 
speech,  exaggeration,  and  ill  temper,  then  it  is  an  in- 
firmity, and  is  always  out  of  place.  Yet  such  is  the 
weakness  of  strong  men  that  we  meet  with  it  in  all 
the  great  movements  of  mankind,  in  the  Christian 
Reformation  and  the  Protestant  Reformation,  and  in 
all  great  revolutions.  The  American  Revolution  was 
the  effort  of  a  nation  to  free  itself  from  tyranny,  the 
very  mild  tyranny  of  the  British  crown.  The  denun- 
ciations, violence,  and  bloodshed  which  followed  are 
well  known.  Yet  now  there  are  none  but  the  aboli- 
tionists who  think  the  Revolution  was  not  worth  what  it 
cost.  But  in  the  case  which  Dr.  Channing  complained 
of,  a  population  greater  than  that  of  all  the  colonies 
in  1775  were  entirely  deprived  of  all  their  rights  and 
reduced  to  abject  slavery,  and  the  abolitionists  —  ul- 
tra-peace men  and  non-resistants  almost  all  of  them 
—  attempted  no  violence,  and  used  nothing  harder  than 


158  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

hard  words.  For  our  own  part  we  confess  their  lan- 
guage has  not  always  been  to  our  taste,  but  we  know 
of  no  revolution  of  any  importance  that  has  been  con- 
ducted with  so  little  violence  and  denunciation.  When 
Dr.  Channing  wrote  about  Milton  and  the  stormy 
times  of  the  English  commonwealth,  he  thought  differ- 
ently, and  said, 

"  In  regard  to  the  public  enemies  whom  he  assailed,  we  mean 
the  despots  in  church  and  state,  and  the  corrupt  institutions 
which  had  stirred  up  a  civil  war,  the  general  strain  of  his 
writings,  though  strong  and  stern,  must  exalt  him,  notwith- 
standing his  occasional  violence,  among  the  friends  of  civil 
and  religious  liberty.  That  liberty  was  in  peril.  Great  evils 
were  struggling  for  perpetuity  and  could  only  be  broken  down 
by  great  power.  Milton  felt  that  interests  of  infinite  moment 
were  at  stake,  and  who  will  blame  him  for  binding  himself  to 
them  with  the  whole  energy  of  his  great  mind,  and  for  defend- 
ing them  with  fervor  and  vehemence?  We  must  not  mistake 
Christian  benevolence,  as  if  it  had  but  one  voice,  that  of  soft 
entreaty.  It  can  speak  in  piercing  and  awful  tones.  There  is 
constantly  going  on  in  our  world  a  conflict  between  good  and 
evil.  The  cause  of  human  nature  has  always  to  wrestle  with 
foes.  All  improvement  is  a  victory  won  by  struggles.  It  is 
especially  true  of  those  great  periods  which  have  been  distin- 
guished by  revolutions  in  government  and  religion,  and  from 
which  we  date  the  most  rapid  movements  of  the  human  mind, 
that  they  have  been  signalized  by  conflict.  Thus  Christianity 
convulsed  the  world  and  grew  up  amidst  storms,  and  the 
Reformation  of  Luther  was  a  signal  to  universal  war,  and  Lib- 
erty in  both  worlds  has  encountered  opposition  over  which  she 
has  triumphed  only  through  her  own  immortal  energies.  At 
such  periods,  men  gifted  with  great  power  of  thought  and  lofti- 
ness of  sentiment,  are  especially  summoned  to  the  conflict  with 
evil.  They  hear,  as  it  were,  in  their  own  magnanimity  and 
generous  aspirations,  the  voice  of  a  divinity;  and  thus  com- 
missioned, and  burning  with  a  passionate  devotion  to  truth  and 
freedom,  they  must  and  will  speak  with  an  indignant  energy, 
and  they  ought  not  to  be  measured  by  the  standard  of  ordinary 
minds  in  ordinary  times.  Men  of  natural  softness  and  timidity, 
of  a  sincere  but  eflfeminate  virtue,  will  be  apt  to  look  on  these 
bolder,  hardier  spirits  as  violent,  perturbed,  and  uncharitable; 
and  the  charge  will  not  be  whoUy  groundless.     But  that  deep 


CHANNING  159 

feeling  of  evils,  which  is  necessary  to  effectual  conflict  with 
them,  and  which  marks  God's  most  powerful  messengers  to 
mankind,  cannot  breathe  itself  in  soft  and  tender  accents.  The 
deeply  moved  soul  will  speak  strongly,  and  ought  to  speak 
so  as  to  move  and  shake  nations." 

There  are  not  many  things  in  Dr.  Channing's  life 
which  we  could  wish  other^vise,  but  his  relation  to  the 
abolitionists  is  one  of  that  number.  In  1831,  Mr. 
Garrison,  a  printer  in  the  office  of  the  Christian  Ex- 
aminer at  Boston,  issued  the  first  number  of  the 
"  Liberator,"  making  the  declaration,  "  I  am  in 
earnest,  I  will  not  equivocate,  I  will  not  excuse,  I 
will  not  retreat  a  single  inch,  and  I  will  be  heard." 
He  borrowed  the  type  and  press  of  the  office  he  worked 
in.  He  could  not  get  trusted  for  fifty  dollars'  worth 
of  paper  "  because  he  was  opposed  to  the  Coloniza- 
tion Society."  So  he  waited  till  a  negro  in  Phila- 
delphia sent  him  that  sum.  He  was  obscure  and 
destitute,  but  "  had  a  determination  to  print  the  paper 
as  long  as  he  could  live  on  bread  and  water,  or  his 
hands  find  employment."  He  was  reviled,  insulted, 
mobbed ;  a  price  set  on  his  head ;  he  lived  in  the  same 
city  with  Dr.  Channing,  struggling  with  poverty, 
obscurity,  and  honorable  disgrace  for  twelve  years, 
and  Dr.  Channing  aff'orded  him  no  aid,  nor  counsel, 
nor  sympathy,  not  a  single  "  God  bless  you,  my 
brother,"  and  did  not  even  answer  his  letter !  This 
we  find  it  difficult  to  understand,  as  it  is  painful  to 
relate.  We  gladly  hasten  away  from  the  subject, 
which  we  could  not  pass  by  in  silence,  but  have  spoken 
of  in  sorrow. 

His  public  sermons  and  addresses  —  we  speak  now 
only  of  such  as  he  wished  to  preserve  —  treat  of  a  large 
variety  of  subjects:  Temperance,  Education,  Christ, 
Christianity,  the  Evidences  of  Religion,  the  Ministry, 


160  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

and  kindred  subjects.  These  are  somewhat  unequal, 
but  all  are  marked  by  the  qualities  mentioned  above, 
by  a  profound  reverence  for  man,  and  most  unhesi- 
tating confidence  in  God.  None  of  those  sermons  in- 
dicates a  mind  of  a  very  high  order ;  as  works  of  in- 
tellect they  will  not  compare  with  the  great  sermons 
of  the  best  English  preachers,  but  we  know  none  of 
which  the  effect  is  more  ennobling.  His  analysis  of 
a  subject  is  seldom  final,  he  usually  halts  short  of  the 
ultimate  fact ;  his  arrangement  is  frequently  unphilo- 
sophical ;  his  reasoning  often  weak,  unsatisfactory, 
various  parts  of  the  argument  not  well  connected, 
his  style  diffuse  and  verbose.  We  know  diffuseness  is 
the  old  Adam  of  the  pulpit.  There  are  always  two 
ways  of  hitting  the  mark,  one  with  a  single  bullet, 
the  other  with  a  shower  of  small  shot.  Each  has  its 
advantages ;  Dr.  Channing  chose  the  latter,  as  most 
of  our  pulpit  orators  have  done.  It  is  comm.only 
thought  men  better  understand  a  truth  when  it  is  told 
two  or  three  times  over,  and  in  two  or  three  differ- 
ent ways ;  be  that  as  it  may,  it  is  certain  that  a  small 
quantity  of  metal  will  cover  the  more  space  the  thin- 
ner it  is  beaten,  and  when  a  man  must  write  one  or 
two  sermons  in  a  week,  never  to  be  used  again,  perhaps 
he  may  be  forgiven  if  the  depth  be  less  as  the  sur- 
face becomes  greater.  Dr.  Channing  was  not  very 
diffuse  for  a  preacher,  but  certainly  for  a  great  man. 
His  vocabulary  w^as  not  copious,  there  is  no  idiomatic 
freshness  in  his  style ;  his  illustrations  are  trite,  often 
commonplace.  Neither  literature  nor  nature  gets  re- 
flected in  his  style.  His  thought  and  feeling  are 
American  in  the  best  sense  of  the  word ;  but  the  form, 
the  coloring,  the  tone  are  wholly  destitute  of  nation- 
ality ;  there  is  no  American  image  in  his  temple,  no 


CHANNING  161 

American  flowers  in  his  garden.  We  think  this  a  de- 
fect. In  all  his  writings  you  see  that  he  had  lived 
alone,  not  much  among  books,  not  much  with  nature 
you  would  fancy,  but  with  his  own  thoughts.^ 

As  a  speaker  his  style  of  eloquence  was  peculiar. 
He  stands  alone.  His  powers  of  reasoning  were  cer- 
tainly not  very  great,  by  no  means  to  be  compared  to 
the  many  able  men  of  his  country  or  his  age;  he  had 
not  that  great  power  of  demonstration  which  at  once 
puts  the  pointed  thought  into  your  mind,  and  then 
drives  it  home  with  successive  blows.  He  had  not  that 
creative  force  which  attracts,  conquers,  and  then  di- 
rects ;  nor  that  energy  of  feeling,  which,  making  an 
impression  almost  magical,  carries  the  audience  away 
with  its  irresistible  tide.  He  commanded  attention  by 
presenting  numerous  minute  particulars,  trusting  lit- 
tle to  the  effect  of  any  one  great  argument.  His  elo- 
quent warfare  was  a  guerilla  war.  He  carried  the 
hearer's  understanding  little  by  little,  never  taking  it 
by  storm.  He  did  not  represent  a  great  reason,  a 
great  imagination,  or  a  great  passion ;  but  a  great 
conscience  and  a  great  faith.  In  this  lay  the  power 
of  his  eloquence,  the  charm  of  his  preaching,  the  ma- 
jesty of  his  character. 

As    a    public    speaker,    at    first    sight    he    did    not 

strongly   impress   his   audience,   he   did   not   look   the 

great  man ;  his  body  was  feeble  and  unusually  small, 

his  voice   not   powerful,   though   solemn,   affectionate, 

and   clear.     How   frail  he   seemed !     Yet   look   again, 

and  his  organization  was  singularly  delicate,  womanly 

in  its  niceness  and  refinement.     When  closely  viewed 

he  seemed  a  soul  very  lightly  clad  with  a  body,  and  you 

saw  the  soul  so  clearly  that  you  forgot  the  vesture  it 

wore.     He  began  his   sermon   simply,   announced  the 
11—11 


16^  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

theme,  spoke  of  its  importance,  glanced  over  the  sur- 
face for  a  moment,  then  sketched  out  his  plan  as  the 
farmer  lands  out  his  field  which  he  is  to  plough  up 
inch  by  inch.  He  began  simply,  calmly,  and  rose 
higher  and  higher  as  he  went  on,  each  thought  deeper 
and  nobler  than  the  last.  His  conscience  and  his  faith 
went  into  the  audience  till  he  held  them  breathless, 
entranced,  lifted  out  of  their  common  consciousness ; 
till  they  forgot  their  own  littleness,  forgot  the 
preacher,  soul  and  body,  and  thought  only  of  his 
thought,  felt  only  his  feeling. 

There  was  never  such  preaching  in  Boston,  never 
such  prayers.  His  word  sunk  into  men  as  the  sun 
into  the  ground  in  summer  to  send  up  grass  and 
flowers.  Did  he  speak  of  sin,  the  ingenuous  youth 
saw  its  ugliness  with  creeping  hate ;  of  the  dignity  of 
human  nature,  you  longed  to  be  such  a  man ;  of  God, 
of  his  goodness,  his  love,  you  wondered  you  could  ever 
doubt  or  fear.  It  was  our  good  fortune  in  earlier 
years  to  hear  him  often,  in  his  noblest  efforts ;  often, 
too,  on  the  same  day  have  we  listened  to  the  eloquence 
of  another  good  minister,  now  also  immortal,  a  man 
of  rare  piety  and  singular  power  in  the  pulpit,  we 
mean  the  younger  Ware.  More  sentimental  than 
Channing,  more  imaginative,  with  an  intellect  less 
capacious  and  a  range  of  subjects  by  no  means  so 
broad,  he  yet  spoke  to  the  native  soul  of  man  with  a 
sweet  persuasion  rarely  equalled.  Ware  told  you 
more  of  heaven,  Channing  more  of  earth,  that  you 
might  make  it  heaven  here.  It  was  his  conscience  and 
his  trust  in  God  that  gave  him  power.  What  strength 
there  is  in  gentleness,  what  force  in  truth,  what  magic 
in  religion !  That  voice  so  thin  and  feeble,  a  woman's 
word,  it  was  heard  above  the  roar  of  the  street  and 


CHANNING  163 

the  clatter  of  legislation ;  it  went  beyond  the  AUe- 
ghanies ;  it  passed  over  the  din  of  the  Atlantic  waves, 
and  became  a  winning  and  familiar  sound  in  our 
mother-land ;  that  hand,  so  thin  and  ghostly  it  seemed 
a  moonbeam  might  shme  through,  It  held  a  power  which 
no  sceptered  monarch  of  our  time  could  wield, —  the 
power  of  justice,  of  all-controlling  faith;  that  feeble 
form,  that  man  with  body  frailer  than  a  girl's,  he  had 
an  influence  which  no  man  that  speaks  the  English 
tongue  now  equals.  He  spoke  not  to  men  as  members 
of  a  party,  or  a  sect,  or  tribe,  or  nation,  but  to  the 
universal  nature  of  man,  and  that  "  something  that 
doth  live  "  everlastingly  In  our  embers  answered  to  his 
caU. 

He  became  conscious  of  his  power.  It  could  not  be 
otherwise  when  his  word  thus  came  echoed  back  from 
the  heights  and  depths  of  society.  But  this  only  made 
him  yet  more  humble.  A  name  In  both  hemispheres 
gave  him  no  pleasure  but  as  a  means  of  usefulness  and 
increase  of  power;  but  made  him  more  zealous  and 
more  powerful  to  serve.  Laudations  he  put  aside 
without  reading,  and  abuse  had  small  effect  on  him. 
Did  proud  men  scorn  his  humanity,  and  base  men 
affect  to  pity,  it  was  only  the  pity  which  he  returned. 
Yet  when  a  letter  from  a  poor  man  in  England  came 
to  thank  him  for  his  words  of  lofty  cheer,  he  could 
well  say,  "  This  is  honor."  When  a  nursery-man  for- 
got his  plants  and  his  customers  to  express  an  interest 
in  him,  or  a  retired  Quaker  family  was  moved  by  his 
presence,  then  he  could  say,  "  This  Is  better  than  fame 
a  thousand  times."  Forgive  him  if  that  made  him 
proud.  We  remember  well  his  lecture  on  the  Eleva- 
tion of  the  Laboring  Classes,  and  the  sneers  with 
which  It  was  received  by   some  that  heard  it  at  the 


164  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

time ;  and  we  shall  not  soon  forget  the  feelings  it 
brought  to  our  heart,  when  one  day,  in  a  little  town  in 
a  Swiss  valley,  we  saw  in  the  shop  of  an  apothecary, 
who  was  also  the  bookseller,  a  copy  of  that  lecture 
in  the  German  tongue.  It  was  printed  at  that  place, 
and  was  the  second  edition !  The  word  which  some 
sneered  at  here  was  gone  "  to  the  Gentiles,"  to  com- 
fort the  poor  laborers  under  the  shadow  of  the  Alps. 
We  know  that  men  sneer  at  the  pulpit,  counting  it 
a  low  place  and  no  seat  of  power;  we  know  why  they 
sneer,  and  blame  them  not.  But  if  there  is  a  man  in 
the  pulpit  with  a  man's  mind,  heart,  soul,  the  pulpit 
is  no  mean  place,  it  shall  go  hard  if  his  power  is  not  felt. 
In  Boston  there  are  well  nigh  fivescore  clergymen,  out 
of  these  were  there  fifty  like  Dr.  Channing,  fifty 
more  in  New  York,  and  yet  another  fifty  in  the  pulpits 
of  Philadelphia ;  let  them  be  of  all  ways  of  thinking, 
■ —  Catholic,  Calvinistic,  or  Quaker, —  only  let  them 
love  God  as  much  and  man  as  well,  only  let  them  love 
truth  and  righteousness  as  well  as  he,  and  labor  with 
as  much  earnestness  to  reform  theology,  society, 
church,  and  state ;  what  cities  should  we  have,  what 
churches,  what  a  society,  what  a  state !  Would  there 
be  the  intemperance,  the  pauperism,  the  ignorance 
among  the  people,  the  licentiousness,  the  sheer  and 
utter  lust  of  gain  which  now  takes  possession  of  the 
most  influential  men  of  the  nation  ?  Oh  no  !  —  there 
would  have  been  no  annexation  of  Texas  for  a  new 
slave-garden,  no  war  against  Mexico,  no  "-Holy  Al- 
liance "  in  America  between  Democrats  and  Whigs  to 
secure  the  "  partition  of  our  sister  republic ;  there 
would  not  be  three  millions  of  slaves  in  the  United 
States,  and  a  slave-holder  on  the  throne  of  the  na- 
tion,  for   'tis   a   throne  we  speak   of,   and  the  people 


CHANNING  165 

only  subjects  of  a  base  aristocracy,  no  longer  citizens. 
Did  we  speak  of  fifty  Channings  in  Boston?  were  there 
only  ten  they  would  make  this  city,  as  we  think,  too 
good  to  hope  for.  But  there  are  not  ten  such  men, 
—  nay,  there  are  not  but  we  will  not  count  them. 
There  are  still  good  men  in  pulpits,  here ;  only  rare 
and  few,  floating  amid  the  sectarianism,  wealth,  and 
pride  which  swim  round  in  this  whirlpool  of  modern 
society.  They  never  wholly  failed  in  Boston.  Nay, 
when  the  oil  has  run  low  and  the  meal  was  almost 
spent,  some  prophet  came  along  to  cheer  this  poor 
widow  of  the  church  with  his  blessing,  and  the  oil 
held  out  in  the  cruse,  and  the  meal  was  not  spent,  so 
that  her  children  did  not  wholly  starve  and  die  out- 
right, saying,  "  Who  is  the  Lord  ?  "  True,  there  has 
always  been  some  rod,  a  scion  from  the  tree  of  life,  that 
held  its  own  amid  the  drought,  and  kept  obstinately 
green,  and  went  on  budding  and  blossoming,  a  memory 
and  a  hope ;  always  some  sacramental  portion  of  the 
manna  which  fed  our  fathers,  a  fragrant  reminiscence 
of  the  old  pilgrimage,  and  a  promise  of  the  true  bread 
which  shall  one  day  be  given  from  heaven ;  at  least, 
there  is  always  some  heap  of  stones  to  remind  us  that 
our  fathers  passed  over  Jordan,  and,  though  sorely 
beset  and  hunted  after,  they  could  yet  say,  even  in 
their  extremity,  "  Hitherto  hath  the  Lord  helped  us !  " 
These  do  not  fail,  "  thanks  to  the  human  heart  by 
which  we  live ;  "  but  a  powerful  ministry  in  any  de- 
nomination we  have  not.  Yet  the  harvest  truly  is 
plenteous.  How  white  are  all  the  fields !  only  the  la- 
borers are  few,  feeble,  faint  in  heart  and  limb,  and 
while  wrangling  about  names  have  so  long  left  their 
sickles  idle  in  the  sun  that  their  very  tools  have  lost 
their  temper,  and  ring  no  longer,  as  when  of  old  they 
cut  the  standing  corn. 


166  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Why  does  not  the  church  save  us  from  slavery, 
party-spirit,  ignorance,  pauperism,  Hcentiousness,  and 
lust  of  gain?  It  has  no  salvation  to  give.  Why  not 
afford  us  great  teachers,  like  the  old  and  venerable 
names,  Edwards,  Chaunceys,  Mayhews,  Freemans, 
Buckminsters,  Channings?  The  church  has  nothing 
to  teach  which  is  worth  the  learning  of  grown  men, 
and  even  the  baby-virtue  of  America  turns  off  from 
that  lean,  haggard,  and  empty  breast,  yet  cries  for 
food  and  mother's  arms.  But  there  is  a  providence 
in  all  this.  Taking  the  churches  as  they  are,  ecclesi- 
astical religion  as  it  is,  it  is  well  that  able  men  do  not 
stand  in  the  pulpits ;  well  that  men  of  superior  ability 
and  superior  culture  flee  from  it  to  law,  politics,  the 
farm,  and  the  shop.  If  the  church  has  nothing  bet- 
ter to  teach  than  the  morality  of  the  market-place 
and  the  theology  of  the  dark  ages,  if  she  is  the 
foe  to  pure  goodness,  pure  piety,  and  pure  thought, 
then  parson  Log  is  the  best  parson.  Let  us  accept 
him  with  thankfulness.  But  it  will  not  always  be  so ; 
no,  not  long.  A  better  day  is  coming,  when  the  real 
church  shall  be  the  actual ;  when  theology,  the  queen 
and  mother  of  science,  shall  assert  her  ancient  rule, 
driving  off  superstition  and  priestly  unbelief ;  when 
a  real  ministry  in  religion's  name  shall  rebuke  that 
party-spirit  which  makes  a  monarch  out  of  a  presi- 
dent, a  miserable  oligarchy  out  of  a  republic,  and 
transforms  the  citizens  of  New-England  into  the  sub- 
jects of  slave-holders,  and  makes  our  free  men  only  the 
servants  of  gain.  Pandora  has  opened  her  box,  sec- 
tarianism and  party-rage  have  flown  out ;  see  the  an- 
archy they  make  in  church  and  state !  But  there  is 
yet  left  at  the  bottom,  hope.  When  the  lid  is  lifted 
next  that  also  will  appear,  and  a  new  spring  come  out 


CHANNING  167 

of  this  winter,  and  we  shall  wonder  at  the  White-Sun- 
day on  all  the  hills,  at  the  Pentecost  of  inspiration 
and  tongues  of  heavenly  truth. 

But  we  have  wandered  from  our  theme.  In  the 
midst  of  Boston,  so  penny-wise  and  so  pound-foolish, 
• —  worldly  Boston,  which  sent  to  the  heathens  more  rum 
and  more  Bibles  than  all  the  states,  the  one  to  teach 
them  our  Christianity,  and  the  other  to  baptize  the 
converts,  making  their  calling  and  election  sure ;  which 
sent  sleek  men  to  Congress,  ambassadors  to  lie  in  the 
capitol  for  the  benefit  of  their  party  and  themselves ; 
in  the  midst  of  Boston  where  men  set  up  the  hay-scales 
of  their  virtue,  and  on  one  side  put  their  dollars  and 
on  the  other  set  patriotism,  democracy,  freedom, 
Christianity,  while  the  dollar  weighed  them  all  down; 
in  the  midst  of  this  stood  Dr.  Channing,  liberal,  wise, 
gentle,  pious  without  narrowness,  democratic,  and  full 
of  hope.  Shall  we  wonder  that  he  wrought  so  little ; 
that  he  could  not  get  an  anti-slavery  notice  read  in 
his  own  pulpit,  nor  the  door  open  to  preach  a  funeral 
sermon  on  his  anti-slavery  friend,  the  lamented  Pollen? 
Rather  wonder  that  he  did  so  preach.  No  sailing 
vessel  can  stem  the  Mississippi,  nor  the  stout  steamboat 
go  up  the  falls  of  St.  Anthony ;  and  it  takes  time  to 
go  round. 

Here  was  one  great  man  in  Boston  who  did  not 
seek  wealth,  nor  want  place,  nor  ask  for  fame ;  one 
man  who  would  not  sell  himself.  He  only  asked, 
sought,  and  coveted  the  power  to  serve.  He  was 
afraid  he  should  give  too  little  and  take  too  much. 
So  he  took  only  his  living,  and  gave  men  the  toil  of 
his  genius,  his  prayers,  and  his  life.  There  is  no 
charity  so  great  as  this.  See  now,  the  effect  of  such 
a  life;  here  in  America  there  is  one  great  man,  with 


168  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 


broad  brows,  a  colossal  intellect,  and  the  most  awful 
prejudice  the  world  has  seen  for  some  centuries,  it  is 
said;  one  who  would  seem  an  emperor  in  any  council, 
even  of  the  kings  by  nature ;  with  understanding  so 
great  that  Channing's  mind  would  seem  but  a  baby  in 
his  arms;  a  senator,  who  for  many  years  has  occupied 
important  public  posts, —  and  yet  in  New-England, 
in  the  United  States,  Channing  has  far  more  influence 
than  Webster.  He  was  never  in  his  life  greeted  with 
the  shout  of  a  multitude,  and  yet  he  has  swayed  the 
mind  and  heart  of  the  best  men,  and  affected  the  char- 
acter and  welfare  of  the  nation  far  more  than  the 
famous  statesman.  In  our  last  number  we  spoke  of 
that  venerable  man  who  breathed  his  last  breath  in 
the  capitol:  John  Quincy  Adams  had  held  high  offices 
for  fifty  years,  been  minister  to  courts  abroad,  had 
made  treaties,  had  been  representative,  senator,  secre- 
tary of  state,  been  president ;  he  had  lived  eighty 
years,  a  learned  man,  always  well,  always  at  work, 
always  in  public  office,  always  amongst  great  men  and 
busied  with  the  affairs  of  the  nation ;  and  yet,  which 
has  done  the  most  for  his  country,  for  mankind,  and 
most  helped  men  to  wisdom  and  religion,  man's  highest 
welfare.''  The  boys  could  tell  us  that  the  effect  of 
Adams  and  Webster  both  is  not  to  be  named  in  com- 
parison with  the  work  done  for  the  world  by  this  one 
feeble-bodied  man.  Yet  there  are  forty  thousand 
ministers  in  the  United  States,  and  Channing  stood  al- 
ways in  the  pulpit,  owing  nothing  to  any  eminent 
station  that  he  filled.  In  this  century  we  have  had  two 
presidents  who  powerfully  affected  the  nation,  one  by 
his  mind,  by  ideas ;  his  public  acts  were  often  foolish ; 
the  other  by  his  will,  his  deeds,  ideas  apparently  of 
small  concern  to  him  —  we  mean  Jefferson  and  Jack- 


CHANNING  169 

son.  But,  with  the  exception  of  Jefferson,  no  presi- 
dent in  this  century  has  ever  had  such  influence  upon 
men's  minds  as  that  humble  minister.  No,  not  all  to- 
gether —  Madison,  Monroe,  Adams,  Jackson,  Van 
Buren  and  Harrison  and  Tyler  and  Polk.  Some  of 
them  did  good  things,  yet  soon  they  will  be  gone,  all 
but  one  or  two ;  their  influence,  too,  will  pass  away,  and 
soon  there  will  be  left  nothing  but  a  name  in  a  book, 
for  they  were  only  connected  with  an  office,  not  an  idea, 
while  Channing's  power  will  remain  long  after  his 
writings  have  ceased  to  be  read  and  his  name  is  for- 
got ;  of  so  little  consequence  is  it  where  the  man  stands, 
if  he  be  but  a  man,  and  do  a  man's  work. 

The  one  great  idea  of  Dr.  Channing's  life  was  re- 
spect for  man.  He  was  eminent  for  other  things, 
but  preeminent  for  this.  His  eminent  piety  became 
eminent  philanthropy  in  all  its  forms.  This  explains 
his  action  as  a  reformer,  his  courage,  and  his  inex- 
tinguishable hope.  Dr.  Channing  was  one  of  the  few 
democrats  we  have  ever  known.  Born  and  bred 
amongst  men  who  had  small  confidence  in  the  people, 
and  who  took  little  pains  to  make  them  better,  he  be- 
came intensely  their  friend.  The  little  distinctions  of 
life,  marked  by  wealth,  fame,  or  genius,  were  of  small 
account  to  him.  He  honored  all  men ;  saw  the  man  in 
the  beggar,  in  the  slave.  He  never  desponded ;  he 
grew  more  liberal  the  more  he  lived,  and  seemed  greenest 
and  freshest  when  about  to  quit  this  lower  sphere. 
His  youth  was  sad  though  hopeful ;  in  the  middle 
period  of  his  life  he  seems  saddened  and  subdued,  in 
part  by  the  restraints  of  his  profession,  in  part  by  ill 
health,  and  yet  more  by  austere  notions  of  life  and 
duty,  imposed  by  a  gloomy  theory  of  religion,  but 
which  in  his  latter  days  he  escaped  from  and  left  be- 


170  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

hind  him.  He  is  a  fine  example  of  the  power  of  one 
man,  armed  only  with  truth  and  love.  By  these  he  did 
service  here,  and  spoke  to  the  best  minds  of  the  age, 
giving  hope  to  famous  men,  and  cheering  the  hearts 
of  such  as  toiled  all  day  in  the  dark  mines  of  Cornwall. 
By  these  he  sympathized  with  men,  with  nature,  and 
with  God.  Hence  he  grew  younger  all  his  life,  and 
thought  the  happiest  period  was  "  about  sixty."  In 
1839  he  thus  wrote: 

"  Indeed,  life  has  been  an  improving  gift  from  my  youth;  and 
one  reason  I  believe  to  be,  that  my  youth  was  not  a  happy  one. 
I  look  back  to  no  bright  dawn  of  life  which  gradually  *  faded 
into  common  day.'  The  light  which  I  now  live  in  rose  at  a  later 
period.  A  rigid  domestic  discipline,  sanctioned  by  the  times, 
gloomy  views  of  religion,  the  selfish  passions,  collisions  with 
companions  perhaps  worse  than  myself, —  these,  and  other 
things,  darkened  my  boyhood.  Then  came  altered  circum- 
stances, dependence,  unwise  and  excessive  labours  for  inde- 
pendence, and  the  symptoms  of  the  weakness  and  disease  which 
have  followed  me  through  life.  Amidst  this  darkness  it  pleased 
God  that  the  light  should  rise.  The  work  of  spiritual  regener- 
ation, the  discover"  of  the  supreme  good,  of  the  great  and 
glorious  end  of  life,  aspirations  after  truth  and  virtue,  which 
are  pledges  and  beginnings  of  immortality,  the  consciousness 
of  something  divine  within  me,  then  began,  faintly  indeed,  and 
through  many  struggles  and  sufferings  have  gone  on. 

"I  love  life,  perhaps,  too  much;  perhaps  I  cling  to  it  too 
strongly  for  a  Christian  and  a  philosopher.  I  welcome  every 
new  day  with  new  gratitude.  I  almost  wonder  at  myself,  when 
I  think  of  the  pleasure  which  the  dawTi  gives  me,  after  having 
witnessed  it  so  many  years.  This  blessed  light  of  heaven,  how 
dear  it  is  to  me!  and  this  earth  which  I  have  trodden  so  long, 
with  what  affection  I  look  on  it !  I  have  but  a  moment  ago 
cast  my  eyes  on  the  lawn  in  front  of  my  house,  and  the  sight 
of  it,  gemmed  with  dew  and  heightening  by  its  brilliancy  the 
shadows  of  the  trees  which  fall  upon  it,  awakened  emotions 
more  vivid,  perhaps,  than  I  experienced  in  youth.  I  do  not 
like  the  ancients  calling  the  earth  mother.  She  is  so  fresh, 
youthful,  living,  and  rejoicing!  I  do,  indeed,  anticipate  a  more 
glorious  world  than  this;  but  still  my  first  familiar  home  is 
very  precious  to  me,  nor  can  I  think  of  leaving  its  sun  and 
sky    and   fields    and    ocean    without    regret.    My    interest,    not 


I 


CHANNING  171 

in  outward  nature  only,  but  in  human  nature,  in  its  destinies, 
in  the  progress  of  science,  in  the  struggles  of  freedom  and 
religion,  has  increased  up  to  this  moment,  and  I  am  now  in  my 
sixtieth  year." 

His  life  was  eminently  useful  and  beautiful.  He 
died  in  good  season,  leaving  a  memory  that  will  long 
be  blessed. 


IV 

PRESCOTT  AS  AN  HISTORIAN 

It  is  now  more  than  eleven  years  since  our  accom- 
plished and  distinguished  countryman,  Mr.  Prescott, 
appeared  before  the  world  as  a  writer  of  history. 
Within  that  period  he  has  sent  forth  three  independent 
historical  works  which  have  found  a  wide  circle  of 
readers  in  the  New  World  and  the  Old.  His  works 
have  been  translated  into  all  the  tongues  of  Europe, 
we  think,  which  claim  to  be  languages  of  literature; 
they  have  won  for  the  author  a  brilliant  renown,  which 
few  men  attain  to  in  their  lifetime,  few  even  after  their 
death.  No  American  author  has  received  such  distinc- 
tion from  abroad.  The  most  eminent  learned  societies 
of  Europe  have  honored  themselves  by  writing  his 
name  among  their  own  distinguished  historians.  He 
has  helped  strengthen  the  common  bond  of  all  civilized 
nations  by  writing  books  which  all  nations  can  read. 
Yet  while  he  has  received  this  attention  and  gained 
this  renown,  he  has  not  found  hitherto  a  philosophical 
critic  to  investigate  his  works  carefully,  confess  the 
merits  which  are  there,  to  point  out  the  defects,  if  such 
there  be,  and  coolly  announce  the  value  of  these  writ- 
ings. Mr.  Prescott  has  found  eulogists  on  either  conti- 
nent ;  he  has  found,  also,  one  critic,  who  adds  to  na- 
tional bigotry  the  spirit  of  a  cockney  in  literature, 
whose  stand-point  of  criticism  is  the  church  of  Bow- 
bell,  a  man  who  degrades  the  lofty  calling  of  a  critic 
by  the  puerile  vanities  of  a  literary  fop.  The  article 
we  refer  to  would  have  disgraced  any  journal  which 

172 


PRESCOTT  173 

pretended  to  common  fairness.  We  often  find  articles 
in  the  minor  journals  of  America  written  in  a  little  and 
narrow  spirit,  but  remember  nothing  of  the  kind  so 
little  as  the  paper  we  speak  of  in  the  London  Quarterly 
Review,  No.  cxxvii..  Art.  1.^  We  have  waited  long 
for  some  one  free  from  national  prejudice  to  come,  with 
enlarged  views  of  the  duty  of  an  historian,  having 
suitable  acquaintance  with  the  philosophy  of  history, 
a  competent  knowledge  of  the  subjects  to  be  treated  of, 
and  enough  of  the  spirit  of  humanity,  and  carefully 
examine  these  works  in  all  the  light  of  modern 
philosophy.  We  have  waited  in  vain ;  and  now,  con- 
scious of  our  own  defects,  knowing  that  every  qualifica- 
tion above  hinted  may  easily  be  denied  us,  we  address 
ourselves  to  the  work. 

The  department  of  history  does  not  belong  to  our 
special  study ;  it  is,  therefore,  as  a  layman  that  we 
shall  speak,  not  aspiring  to  pronounce  the  high 
cathedral  judgment  of  a  professor  in  that  craft.  The 
history,  literature,  and  general  development  of  the 
Spanish  nation  fall  still  less  within  the  special  range  of 
the  writer  of  this  article.  We  are  students  of  history 
only  in  common  with  all  men  who  love  liberal  studies, 
and  pursue  history  only  in  the  pauses  from  other  toils. 
However,  the  remarkable  phenomena  offered  by  the 
Spanish  nation  in  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries 
long  ago  attracted  our  attention  and  study.  Still,  it 
is  with  reluctance  we  approach  our  task ;  had  any  of 
the  able  men  whose  business  it  more  properly  is  girded 
himself  and  applied  to  the  work  we  would  have  held 
our  peace,  but  in  the  silence  of  such  we  feel  constrained 
to  speak. 

Before  we  proceed  to  examine  the  works  of  Mr. 
Prescott,  let  a  word  be  said  of  the  office  and  duty  of 


IT-t  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

an  historian,  to  indicate  the  stand-point  whence  his 
books  are  to  be  looked  upon.  The  writer  of  annals  or 
of  chronicles  is  to  record  events  in  the  order  in  which 
they  occur:  he  is  not  an  historian  but  a  narrator, 
not  an  architect  but  a  lumberer  or  stonecutter  of 
history.  It  does  not  necessarily  belong  to  his  calling 
to  elaborate  his  materials  into  a  regular  and  complete 
work  of  art,  which  shall  fully  and  philosophically  rep- 
resent the  life  of  the  nation  he  describes. 

The  biographer  is  to  give  an  idea  of  his  hero,  com- 
plete in  all  its  parts,  and  perfect  in  each ;  to  show  how 
the  world  and  the  age  Avith  their  manifold  influences 
acted  on  the  man,  and  he  on  his  age  and  the  world, 
and  what  they  jointly  produced.  It  is  one  thing  to 
write  the  memoirs  or  annals  of  a  man,  and  a  matter 
quite  difl^erent  to  write  his  Life.  jNIr.  Lockhart  has 
collected  many  memorials  of  Sir  Walter  Scott,  labor- 
iously written  annals,  but  the  Life  of  Sir  Walter  he 
has  by  no  means  written.  In  telling  what  his  hero 
suffered,  did,  and  was,  and  how  all  was  brought  to 
pass,  the  biographer  must  be  a  critic  also,  and  tell  what 
his  hero  ought  to  have  been  and  have  done.  Hence 
comes  the  deeper  interest  and  the  more  instructive 
character  of  a  true  biography :  memoirs  may  enter- 
tain, but  a  biography  must  instruct. 

The  annalist  of  a  nation  or  a  man  works  mainly  in 
an  objective  way,  and  his  own  character  appears  only 
in  the  selection  or  omission  of  events  to  record,  in  re- 
ferring events  to  causes,  or  in  deducing  consequences 
from  causes  supposed  to  be  in  action.  There  is  little 
which  is  personal  in  his  work.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
personality  of  the  biographer  continually  appears. 
The  lumberer's  character  or  the  stonecutter's  does  not 
report  itself  In  the  oak  or  travertine  of  Saint  Peter's, 


PRESCOTT  175 

while  the  genius  of  the  architect  confronts  you  as  you 
gaze  upon  his  colossal  work.  Now  as  the  less  cannot 
of  itself  comprehend  the  greater,  so  a  biographer  can- 
not directly,  and  of  himself,  comprehend  a  man  nobler 
than  himself.  All  the  oysters  in  the  world  would  be 
incompetent  to  write  the  life  of  a  single  eagle.  It  is 
easy  for  a  great  man  to  understand  the  little  man,  im- 
possible to  be  directly  comprehended  thereby.  It  is 
not  hard  to  understand  the  position  of  a  city,  the 
mutual  relation  of  its  parts,  when  we  look  down  thereon 
from  a  high  tower.  Now  while  this  is  so,  by  the  ad- 
vance of  mankind  in  a  few  centuries  it  comes  to  pass 
that  a  man  of  but  common  abilities,  having  the  culture 
of  his  age,  may  stand  on  a  higher  platform  than  the 
man  of  genuis  occupied  a  short  time  before.  In  this 
way  the  biography  of  a  great  man,  which  none  of  his 
contemporaries  could  undertake,  because  he  so  far  over- 
mastered them,  soon  becomes  possible  to  men  of  marked 
ability,  and  in  time  to  men  of  ordinary  powers  of 
comprehension.  At  this  day  it  would  not  be  very 
difficult  to  find  men  competent  to  write  the  life  of 
Alexander  or  of  Charlemagne,  yet  by  no  means  so 
easy  to  find  one  who  could  do  justice  to  Napoleon. 
Lord  Bacon  was  right  in  leaving  his  "  name  and 
memory  "  "  to  foreign  nations  and  to  mine  own  coun- 
trymen after  some  time  be  passed  over."  We  are 
far  from  thinking  Lord  Bacon  so  great  as  many  men 
esteem  him,  but  at  his  death  there  was  no  man  among 
his  own  countrymen  or  in  foreign  nations  meet  to  be 
his  judge.  The  followers  of  Jesus  collected  only  a 
few  scanty  memorials  of  the  man,  and  they  who  have 
since  undertaken  his  life  are  proofs  that  the  world  has 
not  caught  up  with  his  thoughts,  nor  its  foremost 
smen  risen  high  enough  to  examine,  to  criticise,  and  to 


176  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

judge  a  spirit  so  commanding.  But  after  all,  no  ad- 
vance of  mankind,  no  culture,  however  nice  and  ex- 
tensive, will  ever  enable  a  Hobbes  or  a  Hume  to  write 
the  life  of  a  Jesus  or  even  a  Plato.  It  would  be  hard, 
even  now,  to  find  a  man  in  England  or  out  of  it 
competent  to  give  us  the  biography  of  Shakspeare, 
even  if  he  had  all  that  annals  and  memoirs  might 
furnish. 

Now  an  historian  is  to  a  nation  what  a  biographer 
is  to  a  man :  he  is  not  a  bare  chronicler,  to  indite  the 
memoirs  of  a  nation  and  tickle  his  reader  with  a  mere 
panorama  of  events,  however  great  and  brilliantly 
colored, —  events  which  have  a  connection  of  time  and 
place,  but  no  meaning,  coming  from  no  recognized 
cause  and  leading  to  no  conclusion ;  he  is  to  give  us  the 
nation's  life, —  its  outer  life  in  the  civil,  military,  and 
commercial  transactions ;  its  inner  life  in  the  thought 
and  feeling  of  the  people.  If  the  historian  undertake 
the  entire  history  of  a  nation  that  has  completed  its 
career  of  existence,  then  he  must  describe  the  country 
as  it  was  when  the  people  first  appeared  to  take  pos- 
session thereof,  and  point  out  the  successive  changes 
which  they  effected  therein ;  the  geographical  position 
of  the  country,  its  natural  features  —  its  waters, 
mountains,  plains,  its  soil,  climate,  and  productions  — 
all  are  important  elements  which  help  modify  the 
character  of  the  nation.  The  historian  is  to  tell  of  the 
origin  of  the  people,  of  their  rise,  their  decline,  their 
fall  and  end ;  to  show  how  they  acted  on  the  world,  and 
the  world  on  them, —  what  was  mutually  given  and  re- 
ceived. The  causes  which  advanced  or  retarded  the 
nation  are  to  be  sought,  and  their  action  explained. 
He  is  to  inquire  what  sentiments  and  ideas  prevailed  in 
the  nation  ;  whence  they  came,  from  without  the  people 


PRESCOTT  177 

or  from  within ;  how  they  got  organized,  and  with  what 
result.  Hence,  not  merely  are  the  civil  and  military 
transactions  to  be  looked  after,  but  the  philosophy 
which  prevails  in  the  nation  is  to  be  ascertained  and 
discoursed  of;  the  literature,  laws,  and  religion.  The 
historian  is  to  describe  the  industrial  condition  of  the 
people, —  the  state  of  agriculture,  commerce,  and  the 
arts,  both  the  useful  and  the  beautiful ;  to  inform  us 
of  the  means  of  internal  communication,  of  the  in- 
tercourse with  other  nations  —  military,  commercial, 
literary,  or  religious.  He  must  tell  of  the  social  state 
of  the  people,  the  relation  of  the  cultivator  to  the  soil, 
the  relation  of  class  to  class.  It  is  important  to  know 
how  the  revenues  of  the  state  are  raised ;  how  the  taxes 
are  levied  on  person  or  property,  directly  or  indi- 
rectly ;  in  what  manner  they  are  collected,  and  how  a 
particular  tax  affects  the  welfare  of  the  people.  The 
writer  of  a  nation's  life  must  look  at  the  whole  people, 
not  merely  at  any  one  class,  noble  or  plebeian,  and 
must  give  the  net  result  of  their  entire  action,  so  that 
at  the  end  of  his  book  we  can  say :  "  This  people  had 
such  sentiments  and  ideals,  which  led  to  this  and  the 
other  deeds  and  institutions,  which  have  been  attended 
by  such  and  such  results ;  they  added  this  or  that  to  the 
general  achievement  of  the  human  race." 

Now  in  the  history  of  each  nation  there  are  some 
eminent  men  in  whom  the  spirit  of  the  nation  seems 
to  culminate,  either  because  they  are  more  the  nation 
than  the  nation  is  itself  or  because  by  their  eminent 
power  they  constrain  the  nation  to  take  the  form  of 
these  individuals ;  such  men  are  to  be  distinctly  studied 
and  carefully  portrayed,  for  while  embodying  the  na- 
tion's genius  they  are  an  epitome  of  its  history.     In 

a  first  survey  we  know  a  nation  best  by  its  great  men, 
11—12 


178  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

as  a  country  by  its  mountains  and  its  plains,  its  wat- 
ers and  its  shores, —  by  its  great  characters.  Still, 
while  these  eminent  men  are  to  be  put  in  the  fore- 
ground of  the  picture,  the  humblest  class  is  by  no 
means  to  be  neglected.  In  the  family  of  man  there 
are  elder  and  younger  brothers ;  it  is  a  poor  history 
which  neglects  either  class.  A  few  facts  from  the 
every-day  life  of  the  merchant,  the  slave,  the  peasant, 
the  mechanic,  are  often  worth  more,  as  signs  of  the 
times,  than  a  chapter  which  relates  the  intrigues  of  a 
courtier,  though  these  are  not  to  be  overlooked.  It 
is  well  to  know  what  songs  the  peasant  sung,  what 
prayers  he  prayed,  what  food  he  ate,  what  tools  he 
wrought  with,  what  tax  he  paid,  how  he  stood  con- 
nected with  the  soil,  how  he  was  brought  to  war  and 
what  weapons  armed  him  for  the  fight.  It  is  not 
very  important  to  know  whether  General  Breakpate 
commanded  on  the  right  or  the  left,  whether  he  charged 
uphill  or  downhill,  whether  he  rode  a  bright  chestnut 
horse  or  a  dapple  gray,  nor  whether  he  got  dismounted 
by  the  breaking  of  his  saddle-girth  or  the  stumbling 
of  his  beast.  But  it  is  important  to  know  whether  the 
soldiers  were  accoutred  well  or  ill,  and  whether  they 
came  voluntarily  to  the  war,  and  fought  in  battle 
with  a  will,  or  were  brought  to  the  conflict  against  their 
own  consent,  not  much  caring  which  side  was  vic- 
torious. 

In  telling  what  has  been,  the  historian  is  also  to 
tell  what  ought  to  be,  for  he  is  to  pass  judgment  on 
events,  and  try  counsels  by  their  causes  first  and  their 
consequences  not  less.  When  all  these  things  are  told, 
history  ceases  to  be  a  mere  panorama  of  events  hav- 
ing no  unity  but  time  and  place ;  it  becomes  philosophy 
teaching  by  experience,  and  has  a  profound  meaning 


PRESCOTT  179 

and  awakens  a  deep  interest,  while  it  tells  the  lessons 
of  the  past  for  the  warning  of  the  present  and  edi- 
fication of  the  future.  A  nation  is  but  a  single  family 
of  the  human  race,  and  the  historian  should  remember 
that  there  is  a  life  of  the  race,  not  less  than  of  the 
several  nations  and  each  special  man. 

If  the  historian  takes  a  limited  period  of  the  life  of 
any  country  for  his  theme,  then  it  is  a  single  chapter 
of  the  nation's  story  that  he  writes.  He  ought  to 
show,  by  way  of  introduction,  what  the  nation  had  done 
beforehand ;  its  condition,  material  and  spiritual,  the 
state  of  its  foreign  relations,  and  at  home  the  state  of 
industry,  letters,  law,  philosophy,  morals,  and  religion. 
And  after  showing  the  nation's  condition  at  starting, 
he  is  to  tell  what  was  accomplished  in  the  period  under 
examination ;  how  it  was  done,  and  with  what  result 
at  home  and  abroad.  The  philosophy  of  history  is 
of  more  importance  than  the  facts  of  history ;  indeed, 
save  to  the  antiquary,  who  has  a  disinterested  love 
thereof,  they  are  of  little  value  except  as  they  set 
forth  that  philosophy. 

Now  the  subjective  character  of  an  historian  con- 
tinually appears,  colors  his  narrative,  and  effects  the 
judgment  he  passes  on  men  and  things.  You  see  the 
mark  of  the  tonsure  in  a  histor}'-  written  by  a  priest 
or  a  monk ;  his  standing-point  is  commonly  the  belfry 
of  his  parish  church.  A  courtier,  a  trifler  about  the 
court  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  has  his  opinion  of  events, 
of  their  causes  and  their  consequences ;  a  cool  and  wise 
politician  j  udges  in  his  way ;  and  the  philosopher, 
neither  a  priest  nor  courtier,  nor  yet  a  politician,  writ- 
ing in  either  age,  comes  to  conclusions  different  from 
all  three.  A  man's  plilosophical,  political,  moral,  and 
rehgious   creed  will  appear  in  the  history  he  writes. 


180  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

M.  de  Potter  and  Dr.  Neander  find  very  different 
things  in  the  early  ages  of  the  Christian  Church;  a 
Cathohc  and  a  Protestant  History  of  Henry  the  Eighth 
would  be  unlike.  Mr.  Bancroft  writes  the  history  of 
America  from  the  stand-point  of  ideal  democracy,  and, 
viewed  from  that  point,  things  are  not  what  they  seem 
to  be  when  looked  at  from  any  actual  aristocracy. 
Hume,  Gibbon,  Mackintosh,  and  Schlosser,  Sismondi, 
Michelet,  and  Macaulay,  all  display  their  own  char- 
acter in  writing  their  several  works.  Hume  cannot 
comprehend  a  Puritan,  nor  Gibbon  a  "  Primitive  Chris- 
tian ;"  Saint  Simon  sees  little  in  Fenelon  but  a  disap- 
pointed courtier,  and  in  William  Penn  Mr.  Bancroft 
finds  an  ideal  democrat. 

A  man  cannot  comprehend  what  wholly  transcends 
himself.  Could  a  Cherokee  write  the  history  of  Greece  ? 
A  Mexican,  with  the  average  culture  of  his  nation, 
would  make  a  sorry  figure  in  delineating  the  character 
of  New  England.  If  the  historian  be  a  strong  man, 
his  work  reflects  his  own  character ;  if  that  be  boldly 
marked,  then  it  continually  appears,  the  one  thing 
that  is  prominent  throughout  his  work.  In  the  Life 
and  Letters  of  Cromwell  we  get  a  truer  picture  of  the 
author  than  of  the  Protector.  The  same  figure  ap- 
pears in  the  French  Revolution,  and  all  his  historical 
composition  appears  but  the  grand  fabling  of  Mr. 
Carlyle.  But  if  the  historian  is  a  weak  man,  a  thing 
that  may  happen,  more  receptive  than  impressive,  then 
he  reflects  the  average  character  of  his  acquaintance, 
the  circle  of  living  men  he  moves  in,  or  of  the  departed 
men  whose  books  he  reads.  Such  an  historian  makes 
a  particular  country  his  special  study,  but  can  pass 
thereon  with  only  the  general  judgment  of  his  class. 
This  is  true  of  all  simiHar  men ;  the  water  in  the  pipe 


PRESCOTT  181 

rises  as  high  as  in  the  fountain,  capillary  attraction 
aiding  what  friction  hindered ;  you  know  beforehand 
what  an  average  party-man  will  think  of  any  national 
measure,  because  his  "  thought  "  does  not  represent 
any  individual  action  of  his  own,  but  the  general  aver- 
age of  his  class.  So  it  is  with  an  ordinary  clergy- 
man ;  his  opinion  is  not  individual  but  professional,  A 
strong  man  must  have  his  own  style,  his  own  mode  of 
sketching  the  outline,  filling  up  the  details,  and  color- 
ing his  picture ;  if  he  have  a  mannerism,  it  must  be 
one  that  is  his  own,  growing  out  of  himself,  and  not 
merely  on  him,  while  in  all  this  the  small  man  rep- 
resents only  the  character  of  his  class ;  even  his  style, 
his  figures  of  speech,  will  have  a  family  mark  on  them, 
his  mannerism  will  not  be  detected  at  first  because  it  is 
that  of  all  his  friends.  Perhaps  it  would  make  little 
difference  whether  Michael  Angelo  was  born  and  bred 
amid  the  rugged  Alps  or  in  the  loveliest  garden  of 
Valombrosa,  his  genius  seeming  superior  to  circum- 
stances ;  but  with  an  artist  who  has  little  original  and 
creative  power,  local  peculiarities  affect  his  st^^le  and 
appear  in  all  his  works. 

Now  within  a  thousand  years  a  great  change  has 
come  over  the  spirit  of  history.  The  historical  writ- 
ings of  Venerable  Bede  and  of  Louis  Blanc,  the 
Speculum  Hystoriale  of  Vincencius  Bellovacensis,  so 
eagerly  printed  once  and  scattered  all  over  Europe,  and 
the  work  of  Mr.  Macaulay,  bear  marks  of  their  re- 
spective ages,  and  are  monuments  which  attest  the 
progress  of  mankind  in  the  historic  art. 

In  the  middle  ages  Chivalry  prevailed ;  a  great  re- 
spect was  felt  for  certain  prescribed  rules,  a  great 
veneration  for  certain  eminent  persons.  Those  rules 
were  not  always  or  necessarily  rules  of  nature,  but  only 


182  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

of  convention ;  nor  were  the  persons  always  or  neces- 
sarily those  most  meet  for  respect,  but  men  accidentally 
eminent  oftener  than  marked  for  any  substantial  and 
personal  excellence.  The  spirit  of  chivalry  appears 
in  the  writers  of  that  time, —  in  the  song  and  the  ro- 
mance, in  history  and  annals,  in  homilies,  and  in  pray- 
ers and  creed.  Little  interest  is  taken  in  the  people, 
only  for  their  chiefs ;  little  concern  is  felt  by  great  men 
for  industry,  commerce,  art,  much  for  arms.  Primo- 
geniture extended  from  law  into  literature ;  history  was 
that  of  elder  brothers,  and  men  accidentally  eminent 
seemed  to  monopolize  distinction  in  letters,  and  to  hold 
possession  of  history  by  perpetual  entail.  History 
was  aristocratic,  rank  alone  was  respected,  and  it  was 
thought  there  were  but  a  few  hundred  persons  in  the 
world  worth  writing  of  or  caring  for ;  the  mass  were 
thought  only  the  sand  on  which  the  mighty  walked 
and  useful  only  for  that  end,  their  lives  were  vulgar 
lives,  their  blood  was  puddle  blood,  and  their  deaths 
were  vulgar  deaths. 

Of  late  years  a  very  different  spirit  has  appeared; 
slowly  has  it  arisen,  very  slow,  but  it  is  real  and 
visible, —  the  spirit  of  humanity.  This  manifests  it- 
self in  a  respect  for  certain  rules,  but  they  must  be  laws 
of  nature,  rules  of  justice  and  truth;  and  in  respect 
for  all  mankind.  Arms  yield  not  to  the  gown  only, 
but  to  the  frock ;  and  the  aproned  smith  with  his 
creative  hand  beckons  destructive  soldiers  to  an  humbler 
seat,  and  they  begin  with  shame  to  take  the  lower  place, 
not  always  to  be  allowed  them.  This  spirit  of  hu- 
manity appears  in  legislation,  where  we  will  not  now 
follow  it ;  but  it  appears  also  in  literature.  Therein 
primogeniture  is  abolished,  the  entail  is  broken,  the 
monopoly  at  an  end ;  the  elder  sons  are  not  neglected, 


PRESCOTT  183 

but  the  younger  brothers  are  also  brought  into  notice. 
In  history,  as  in  trade,  the  course  is  open  to  talent. 
History  is  becoming  democratic.  The  life  of  the 
people  is  looked  after ;  men  write  of  the  ground  whereon 
the  mighty  walk.  While  the  coins,  the  charters,  and 
the  capitularies  —  M^hich  are  the  monuments  of  kings 
■ —  are  carefully  sought  after,  men  look  also  for  the 
songs,  the  legends,  the  ballads,  which  are  the  medals  of 
the  people,  stamped  with  their  image  and  super- 
scription, and  in  these  find  materials  for  the  biography 
of  a  nation.  The  manners  and  customs  of  the  great 
mass  of  men  are  now  investigated,  and  civil  and  mili- 
tary transactions  are  thought  no  longer  the  one  thing 
most  needful  to  record.  This  spirit  of  humanity  consti- 
tutes the  charm  in  the  writings  of  Niebuhr,  Schlosser, 
Sismondi,  Michelet,  Bancroft,  Grote,  Macaulay,  the 
greatest  historians  of  the  age ;  they  write  in  the  interest 
of  mankind.  The  absence  of  this  spirit  is  a  sad  de- 
fect in  the  writings  of  Mr.  Carlyle ;  himself  a  giant, 
he  writes  history  in  the  interest  only  of  giants. 

Since  this  change  has  taken  place  a  new  demand  is 
made  of  an  historian  of  our  times.  We  have  a  right 
to  insist  that  he  shall  give  us  the  philosophy  of  history, 
and  report  the  lessons  thereof,  as  well  as  record  the 
facts.  He  must  share  the  spirit  of  humanity  which 
begins  to  pervade  the  age ;  he  must  not  write  in  the 
interest  of  a  class,  but  of  mankind, —  in  the  interest 
-of  natural  right  and  justice.  Sometimes,  however,  a 
man  may  be  excused  for  lacking  the  philosophy  of 
liistory ;  no  one  could  expect  it  of  a  Turk ;  if  a  Rus- 
:Sian  were  to  write  the  history  of  France,  it  would  be 
easy  to  forgive  him  if  he  wrote  in  the  interest  of  ty- 
rants. But  when  a  man  of  New  England  undertakes  to 
write  a  history,  there  is  less  excuse  if  his  book  should  be 


184  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

wanting  in  philosophy  and  in  humanity ;  less  merit  if 
it   abound  therewith. 

Mr.  Prescott  has  selected  for  his  theme  one  of  the 
most  important  periods  of  history,  from  the  middle  of 
the  fifteenth  to  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century. 
The  three  greatest  events  of  modern  times  took  place 
during  that  period ;  the  art  of  printing  was  invented, 
America  discovered,  the  Prostestant  Reformation  was 
begun.  It  was  a  period  of  intense  life  and  various 
activity,  in  forms  not  easily  understood  at  this  day. 
The  revival  of  letters  was  going  forward ;  the  classic 
models  of  Greece  and  Rome  were  studied  anew ;  the  re- 
vival, also,  of  art ;  Lionardo  da  Vinci,  Pietro  Perugino, 
Michael  Angelo,  Raphael,  were  achieving  their 
miracles  of  artistic  skill.  Science  began  anew ;  new 
ideas  seemed  to  dawn  upon  mankind ;  modem  literature 
received  a  fresh  impulse.  The  new  thought  presently 
reported  itself  in  all  departments  of  life.  Navigation 
was  improved;  commerce  extended,  a  new  world  was 
discovered,  and,  baited  by  the  hope  of  gold  or  driven 
by  discontent  and  restless  love  of  change,  impelled  by 
desire  of  new  things  or  constrained  by  conscience,  the 
Old  World  rose  and  poured  itself  on  a  new  continent, 
and  with  new  ideas  to  found  empires  mightier  than  the 
old.  In  Europe  a  revolution  advanced  with  the  steps 
of  an  earthquake.  The  Hercules-pillars  of  authority 
were  shaken ;  the  serf  rose  against  his  lord,  the  great 
barons  everywhere  were  losing  their  power,  the  great 
kings  consolidating  their  authority.  Feudal  institutions 
reeled  with  the  tossings  of  the  ground,  and  fell  to  rise 
no  more.  It  was  the  age  of  the  Medici,  of  Machiavelli, 
and  of  Savonarola ;  of  Erasmus  and  Copernicus ;  of 
John  Wessel,  Reuchlin,  Scaliger,  and  Agricola ;  Luther 
and  Loyola  lived  in  that  time.     The  ninety-five  theses 


PRESCOTT  185 

were  posted  on  the  church  door ;  the  Utopia  was 
written.  There  were  Chevaher  Bayard  and  Gonsalvo 
"  the  Great  Captain ;"  Cardinal  Ximenes,  and  Co- 
lumbus. Two  great  works  mark  this  period, —  one, 
the  establishment  of  national  unity  of  action  in  the 
great  monarchies  of  Europe,  the  king  conquering  the 
nobles ;  the  other  the  great  insurrection  of  mind  and 
conscience  against  arbitrary  power  in  the  school,  the 
state,  the  church, —  an  insurrection  which  no  legions  of 
mediseval  scholars,  no  armies,  and  no  Councils  of  Basil 
and  of  Trent  could  prevent  or  long  hinder  from  its 
work. 

Writing  of  this  age,  Mr.  Prescott  takes  for  his 
chief  theme  one  of  the  most  prominent  nations  of  the 
world.  Spain,  however,  was  never  prominent  for 
thought ;  no  idea  welcomed  by  other  nations  was  ever 
born  or  fostered  in  her  lap ;  she  has  no  great  philos- 
opher, not  one  who  has  made  a  mark  on  the  world ;  no 
great  poet  known  to  all  nations ;  not  a  single  orator, 
ecclesiastic  or  political ;  she  has  been  mother  to  few 
great  names  in  science,  arts,  or  literature.  In  com- 
merce, Venice  and  Genoa  long  before  Spain,  England 
and  Holland  at  a  later  date,  have  far  out-travelled 
her.  Even  in  arms,  save  the  brief  glory  shed  thereon 
by  the  Great  Captain,  Spain  has  not  been  dis- 
tinguished ;  surely  not  as  France,  England,  and  even 
the  Low  Countries.  But  her  geographical  position  is 
an  important  one,  between  the  Atlantic  and  the 
Mediterranean.  At  the  time  in  question  her  popula- 
tion was  great,  perhaps  nearly  twice  that  of  Eng- 
land; and  she  played  an  important  part  in  the  affairs 
of  Europe,  while  England  had  little  to  do  with  the 
continent.  Spain  was  connected  with  the  Arabs,  for 
some   centuries   the   most   civilized  people   in   Europe ; 


186  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

hence  she  came  in  contact  with  industry,  skill,  and 
riches,  with  letters  and  with  art,  and  enjoyed  op- 
portunities denied  to  all  the  other  nations  of  Europe. 
For  her  subsequent  rank  among  nations,  Spain  is  in- 
debted to  two  events,  which,  as  they  did  not  come  from 
the  genius  of  the  people,  may  be  called  accidental. 
One  was  the  connection  with  the  house  of  Austria,  the 
singular  circumstance  which  placed  the  united  crowns 
of  Castile  and  Arragon  on  the  same  head  which  bore 
the  imperial  diadem  of  Germany.  This  accident  gave 
a  lustre  to  Spain  in  the  age  of  Charles  the  Fifth  and 
his  successor.  But  the  other  cause,  seemingly  more 
accidental,  has  given  Spain  a  place  in  history  which 
nothing  else  could  have  done,  the  fact  that  when  the 
Genoese  navigator  first  crossed  the  Atlantic  the  Spanish 
flag  was  at  his  masthead. 

Mr.  Prescott  writes  of  Spain  at  her  most  important 
period,  at  the  time  when  the  two  monarchies  of  Castile 
and  Arragon  were  blent  into  one,  when  the  Moors  were 
conquered  and  expelled,  the  Inquisition  established,  the 
Jews  driven  out,  the  old  laws  revised,  a  new  world  dis- 
covered, conquered,  settled,  its  nations  put  to  slavery, 
Christianity,  or  death ;  an  age  when  Negro  Slavery, 
Christianity,  and  the  Inquisition  first  visited  this  west- 
ern world.  Not  only  has  the  historian  a  great  age 
to  delineate  and  great  events  to  deal  with, —  a  new 
continent  to  describe,  a  new  race  to  report  on,  their 
origin,  character,  language,  literature,  art,  manners, 
and  religion ;  but,  to  enliven  his  picture,  he  has  great 
men  to  portray.  We  will  not  speak  of  Ferdinand,  Isa- 
bella, and  Charles  the  Fifth,  who  pass  often  before  us 
in  kingly  grandeur ;  but  there  are  Gonsalvo,  Ximenes, 
and  Columbus,  here  are  Cortes  and  Pizarro. 

Few  historians  have  had  an  age  so  noble  to  describe ; 


PRESCOTT  187 

a  theme  so  ricli  in  events,  in  ideas,  and  in  men ;  an 
opportunity  so  fortunate  to  present  the  lessons  of  his- 
tory to  ages  yet  to  come.  The  author  has  this  further 
advantage ;  he  Hves  far  enough  from  the  age  he  writes 
of  to  be  beyond  its  bigotry  and  its  rage.  The  noises 
of  a  city  hardly  reach  the  top  of  a  steeple,  all  the  din 
of  battle  is  hushed  and  still  far  below  the  top  of  INIont 
Blanc ;  and  so  in  a  few  years  the  passions,  the  heat, 
the  dust,  the  rage  and  noises  of  kings  and  nations  are 
all  silenced  and  lost  in  the  immeasurable  stillness  which 
settles  down  upon  the  past.  If  the  thinker  pauses  from 
his  busy  thought,  and  after  a  year  or  so  returns  thither 
again,  how  clear  it  all  becomes  !  So  is  it  with  mankind  ; 
the  problems  of  that  age  are  no  problems  now,  what 
could  not  then  be  settled  with  all  the  noise  of  parlia- 
ments and  of  arms  in  the  after-silence  of  mankind  has 
got  its  solution.  Yet  Mr.  Prescott  does  not  live  so  far 
from  the  time  he  treats  of  that  genuis  alone  has  power 
to  recall  the  faded  images  thereof,  to  disquiet  and 
bring  it  up  again  to  life.  Yet  he  lives  so  remote  that 
he  can  judge  counsels  by  their  consequences  as  easily 
as  by  their  cause;  can  judge  theories,  laws,  institu- 
tions, and  great  men  by  the  influence  they  have  had  on 
the  world,  by  their  seal  and  signal  mark.  In  addition 
to  these  advantages,  he  lives  in  a  land  where  there  is 
no  censorship  of  the  press ;  where  the  body  is  free,  and 
the  mind  free,  and  the  conscience  free  to  him  who  will. 
His  position  and  his  theme  are  both  enviable,  giving 
an  historian  of  the  greatest  genius  scope  for  all  his 
powers. 

To  judge  only  from  his  writings,  Mr.  Prescott  is 
evidently  a  man  with  a  certain  niceness  of  literary 
culture  not  very  common  in  America,  of  a  careful  if  not 
exact  scholarship  in  the  languages  and  literature  of 


188  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Italy  and  Spain.  Perhaps  he  cannot  boast  a  very  wide 
acquaintance  with  Hterature,  ancient  or  modern,  but 
is  often  nice  and  sometimes  critical  in  his  learning. 
He  is  one  of  the  few  Americans  not  oppressed  by  the 
Res  angusta  domi  who  devote  themselves  to  literature, 
to  a  life  of  study  and  the  self-denial  it  demands  in  all 
countries  and  eminently  here,  where  is  no  literary  class 
to  animate  the  weary  man.  His  quotations  indicate  a 
wealthy  library,  his  own  fortune  enabling  him  to  pro- 
cure books  which  are  rare  even  in  Spain  itself.  Where 
printed  books  fail,  manuscripts,  also,  have  been  dili- 
gently sought.  He  w^rites  in  a  mild  and  amiable 
spirit ;  if  he  differ  from  other  historians,  he  empties 
no  vials  of  wrath  upon  their  heads.  He  always  shows 
himself  a  gentleman  of  letters,  treating  his  companions 
with  agreeable  manners  and  courtesy  the  most  amiable. 
Few  lines  in  these  volumes  appear  marked  with  any 
asperity,  or  dedicated  in  any  sourness  of  temper.  These 
few  we  shall  pass  upon  in  their  place. 

Within  less  than  thirteen  years  eight  volumes  have 
appeared  from  his  hand ;  the  first  evidently  the  work 
of  many  years,  but  the  last  five  volumes  reveal  a 
diligence  and  ability  to  work  not  common  amongst  the 
few  literary  gentlemen  of  America.  Labor  under  dis- 
advantages always  commands  admiration.  How  many 
have  read  with  throbbing  heart  the  lives  of  men 
pursuing  "  knowledge  under  difficulties,"  yet  such  men 
often  had  one  advantage  which  no  wealth  could  give, 
no  colleges  and  guidance  of  accomplished  men  supply, 
an  able  intellect  and  the  unconquerable  will ;  but  Mr. 
Prescott  has  pursued  his  labors  under  well-known  dif- 
ficulties, which  might  make  the  stoutest  quail.  These 
things  considered,  no  fair  man  can  fail  to  honor  the 
accomplished  author,  and  to  rejoice  in  the  laurels  so 


PRESCOTT  189 

beautifully   won  and   worn   with  modesty   and   grace. 

After  this  long  preamble,  let  us  now  examine  the 
three  works  before  us,  and  see  how  the  author  has  done 
the  high  duties  of  an  historian.  Treating  of  this 
great  theme,  we  shall  speak  of  the  three  works  in  their 
chronological  order,  and  examine  in  turn  the  History 
of  Spain,  of  Mexico,  and  of  Peru,^  in  each  case  speak- 
ing of  the  substance  of  the  work,  first  in  details,  then 
as  a  whole,  and  next  of  its  form.  The  remainder  of 
this  article  will  be  devoted  to  the  History  of  Ferdinand 
and  Isabella. 

To  understand  what  was  done  by  Ferdinand  and  Isa- 
bella we  must  know  what  had  been  achieved  before  their 
time ;  must  take  the  national  account  of  stock.  This 
Mr.  Prescott  undertakes  in  his  Introduction ;  but  he 
fails  to  render  an  adequate  account  of  the  condition  of 
Castile  and  Arragon,  and  of  course  it  is  not  easy  for 
the  reader  to  appreciate  the  changes  that  subsequently 
were  made  therein. 

To  be  a  little  more  specific ;  his  account  of  the  con- 
dition of  the  law  is  meagre  and  inadequate,  the  history 
of  the  reform  and  codification  of  laws  poor  and  hardly 
intelligible,  and  though  he  returns  upon  the  theme  in 
the  general  account  of  the  administration  of  Ferdi- 
nand and  Isabella,  still  it  is  not  well  and  adequately 
done.  What  he  says  of  the  Cortes  of  Castile  and 
that  of  Arragon  does  not  give  one  a  clear  idea  of 
the  actual  condition  and  power  of  those  bodies.  He 
does  not  tell  us  by  whom  and  how  the  members  were 
chosen  to  their  office,  how  long  they  held  it  and  on  what 
condition.  The  reader  wonders  at  the  meagreness  of 
this  important  portion  of  the  work,  especially  when 
such  materials  lay  ready  before  his  hands.  After  all, 
we  find  a  more  complete  and  intelligible  account  of  the 


190  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

constitution,  of  the  laws,  and  of  the  administration  of 
justice  in  the  brief  chapter  of  Mr.  Hallam's  work  than 
in  this  elaborate  history.  Nay,  the  work  of  Mr.  Dun- 
ham, written  for  the  Cabinet  Cyclopsedia,  written  ap- 
parently in  haste  and  not  always  in  good  temper,  gives 
a  far  better  account  of  that  matter  than  Mr.  Prescott. 
This  is  a  serious  defect,  and  one  not  to  be  anticipated 
in  an  historian  who  in  this  country  undertakes  to  de- 
scribe to  us  the  ancient  administration  of  a  foreign 
land.  With  a  sigh  the  student  remembers  the  masterly 
chapter  of  Gibbon  which  treats  of  the  administration 
of  justice  and  of  the  Roman  law,  a  chapter  which  made 
a  new  era  in  the  study  of  the  subject  itself,  and  longs 
for  some  one  to  guide  him  in  this  difficult  and  crooked 
path.  With  the  exception  of  the  Code  of  the  Visi- 
goths, the  Fuero  Juzgo,  and  the  Siete  Partidas,  works 
of  Spanish  law  or  treating  thereof  are  in  but  few 
hands ;  Marina,  Zuaznavar,  and  Garcia  de  la  Madrid 
can  be  but  little  known  in  England  or  America,  for 
information  the  general  scholar  must  here  depend  on 
the  historian ;  considering  the  important  place  that 
Spanish  legislation  has  held,  the  wide  reach  of  the 
Spanish  dominion  on  both  continents,  it  was  particu- 
larly needful  to  have  in  this  work  a  clear,  thorough,  and 
masterly  digest  of  this  subject. 

In  speaking  of  the  revenue  of  the  kingdom,  Mr. 
Prescott  does  not  inform  us  how  it  was  collected,  nor 
from  what  sources.  We  are  told  that  the  king  had  his 
royal  demesnes,  that  on  some  occasions  one-fifth  of  the 
spoils  of  war  belonged  to  him,  and  it  appears  that  a 
certain  proportion  of  the  proceeds  of  the  mines  was 
his ;  but  there  is  no  systematic  or  methodical  account  of 
the  revenues.  True,  he  tells  us  that  Isabella  obtains 
money  by  mortgaging  her  real  estate  and  pawning  her 


PRESCOTT  191 

personal  property ;  afterwards  it  appears,  accidentally, 
that  two-ninths  of  the  tithes,  Tercias,  formed  a  part 
of  the  royal  income.  We  are  told  that  the  revenues 
increased  thirty-fold  during  this  administration.  It  is 
mentioned  as  a  proof  of  sagacity  in  the  ruler  and  of  the 
welfare  of  the  people ;  but  we  are  not  told  whence  they 
were  derived,  and  it  appears  that  in  1504  the  single 
city  of  Seville  paid  nearly  one-sixth  of  the  whole 
revenue.*  In  a  note  he  tells  us  that  the  bulk  of  the 
crown  revenue  came  from  the  Tercias  and  the  Alcavalas. 
The  latter  was  an  odious  tax  of  ten  per  cent,  on  all 
articles  bought,  sold,  or  transferred.  Mr.  Prescott 
tells  us  it  was  commuted,  but  how  or  for  what  he  does 
not  say. 

Armies  figure  largely  in  any  history  of  Spain,  but 
it  is  in  vain  that  we  ask  of  Mr.  Prescott  how  the 
armies  were  raised,  and  on  what  principle,  the  modern 
or  the  feudal ;  how  they  were  equipped,  paid,  fed,  and 
clothed.  He  often  dwells  upon  battles,  telling  us  who 
commanded  on  the  right  or  the  left,  can  describe  at 
length  the  tournament  of  Trani  and  the  duel  between 
Bayard  and  Sotomayor ;  but  he  nowhere  gives  us  a 
description  of  the  military  estate  of  the  realm,  and  no- 
where relates  the  general  plan  of  a  campaign.  This, 
also,  is  a  serious  defect  in  any  history,  especially  in 
that  of  a  nation  of  the  fifteenth  century,  a  period  of 
transition.  He  does  not  inform  us  of  the  state  of  in- 
dustry, trade,  and  commerce,  or  touch,  except  in- 
cidentally, upon  the  effect  of  the  laws  thereon.  Yet 
during  this  reign  the  laws  retarded  industry  in  all  its 
forms,  to  a  great  degree.     Soon  after  the  discovery  of 

*  Mr.  Prescott  says  near  a  tenth.  This  is  probably  a  clerical 
or  typographical  error.  The  whole  amount  is  given  in  the  au- 
thority as  209,500,000  maravedis,  of  which  Seville  paid  30,- 
971,096. 


192  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

America,  Spain  forbade  the  exportation  of  gold  and 
silver,  and,  as  Don  Clemencin  says,  "  our  industry 
would  have  died  from  apoplexy  of  money,  if  the  ob- 
servance of  the  laws  established  in  this  matter  had  not 
been  sufficient  for  its  ruin."  At  a  later  date  it  was 
forbidden  to  export  even  the  raw  material  of  silk  and 
wool.  "  Spain,"  says  M.  Blanqui,  the  latest  writer  on 
the  political  economy  of  that  country  that  we  have 
seen,  "  is  the  country  of  all  Europe  where  the  rashest 
and  most  cruel  experiments  have  been  made  at  the 
expense  of  industry,  which  has  almost  always  been 
treated  as  a  foe,  managed  to  the  death  (exploitee  a 
Voutrance)  instead  of  being  protected  by  the  govern- 
ment, and  regarded  as  a  thing  capable  of  taxation, 
rather  than  a  productive  element."  Restrictions  were 
laid  not  only  on  intercourse  with  foreign  nations,  but 
on  the  traffic  between  province  and  province,  and  a 
tax,  sometimes  an  enormous  one,  the  Alcavala,  was  col- 
lected from  the  sale  of  all  articles  whatever.  "  Mem- 
bers of  the  legal  and  military  profession,"  says  M. 
Blanqui,  "  affected  the  most  profound  contempt  for 
every  form  of  industry.  Any  man  who  exercised  a 
trade  was  disgraced  for  life.  A  noble  who  ventured 
to  work  lost  his  privilege  of  nobility,  and  brought  his 
family  to  shame.  No  town  accepted  an  artisan  for  its 
alcalde ;  the  Cortes  of  Arragon,  says  Marina,  never 
admitted  to  their  assembly  a  deputy  who  came  from 
the  industrial  class.  You  would  think  you  were  read- 
ing Aristotle  and  Cicero  when  you  find  in  the  writers, 
and  even  in  the  laws  of  Spain,  those  haughty  expres- 
sions of  contempt  for  the  men  who  bow  their  faces 
towards  the  earth,  and  stoop  to  smite  the  anvil  or  tend 
a  loom." 

Mr.  Prescott  does  not  notice  the  condition   of  the 


I 


PRESCOTT  193 

people,  except  In  terms  the  most  general  and  vague. 
Yet  great  changes  were  taking  place  at  that  time  in 
the  condition  of  the  laboring  class.  He  does  not  even 
tell  us  what  relation  the  peasantry  bore  to  the  soil ; 
how  they  held  it,  by  what  tenure,  for  what  time,  what 
relation  they  bore  to  the  nobles  and  the  knights.  In 
Castile  Mr.  Hallam  says  there  was  no  villanage.  Mr. 
Prescott  gives  us  no  explanation  of  the  fact,  and  does 
not  mention  the  fact  itself.  In  Catalonia  a  portion  of 
the  peasantry  passed  out  of  the  condition  of  vassalage, 
—  Mariana  calls  them  Pageses,  others  Vassals  de 
Remenza, —  to  that  of  conditional  freedom,  by  paying 
an  annual  tax  to  their  former  owner,  or  to  entire  free- 
dom by  the  payment  of  a  sum  twenty  times  as  large. 
This  was  an  important  event  in  the  civil  history  of 
Spain.  Mr.  Prescott  barely  relates  the  fact.  From 
other  sources  we  have  learned,  we  knew  not  how  truly, 
that  no  artisan  was  allowed  in  the  Cortes  of  Arragon, 
that  only  nobles  were  eligible  to  certain  offices  there, 
and  no  nobles  were  taxed. 

In  all  this  History  there  are  no  pictures  from  the 
lives  of  the  humble,  yet  a  glimpse  into  the  cottage  of 
a  peasant,  or  even  at  the  beggary  of  Spain  in  the 
fifteenth  century,  would  be  instructive,  and  help  a 
stranger  to  understand  the  nation.  Much  is  said,  in- 
deed, of  the  wealthier  class,  of  the  nobles,  and  of  the 
clergy,  but  we  find  it  impossible  from  this  History 
alone  to  form  a  complete  idea  of  their  position  in  the 
kingdom ;  of  their  relation  to  one  another,  to  the  people, 
or  the  crown ;  of  the  number  of  the  clergy,  of  their 
education,  their  character,  their  connection  with  the 
nobles  or  the  people,  of  their  general  influence  —  he 
has  nothing  to  tell  us.     He  pays  little  regard  to  the 

progress   of   society ;   to   advances  made  in  the   com- 
11—13 


194  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

forts  of  life,  in  the  means  of  journeying  from  place  to 
place.  Now  and  then  it  is  said  that  the  roads  were 
in  bad  order,  and  so  a  march  was  delayed ;  even  at 
this  day  the  means  of  internal  communication  are  so 
poor,  the  roads  so  few  and  impracticable,  that  some 
provinces  lie  in  a  state  of  almost  entire  isolation.  Says 
M.  Blanqui,  "  More  than  one  province  of  Spain  could 
be  mentioned  which  is  more  inaccessible  than  the  greater 
part  of  our  most  advanced  positions  in  Africa." 
"  Castile  and  Catalonia  differ  as  much  as  Russia  and 
Germany,  and  the  inhabitants  of  Gallicia  do  not  under- 
take the  journey  to  Andalusia  so  often  as  the  French 
that  to   Constantinople." 

A  philosophical  inquirer  wants  information  on  all 
these  subjects,  and  the  general  reader  has  no  authority 
but  histories  like  this.  It  cannot  be  said  that  Mr. 
Prescott  feared  to  encumber  his  work  with  such  de- 
tails, and  make  his  volumes  too  numerous  or  big.  He 
has  space  to  spare  for  frivolous  details ;  he  can  describe 
the  pageant  afforded  by  the  royal  pair  in  the  camp 
before  Moclin,  in  1486 ;  can  tell  us  that  "  the  queen 
herself  rode  a  chestnut  mule,  seated  on  a  saddle-chair 
embossed  with  gold  and  silver ;"  that  "  the  housings 
were  of  a  crimson  color,  and  the  bridles  of  satin  were 
curiously  wrought  with  letters  of  gold ;"  that  "  the  In- 
fanta wore  a  skirt  of  fine  velvet  over  others  of  brocade, 
a  scarlet  mantilla  of  the  Moorish  fashion  and  a  black 
hat  trimmed  with  gold  embroidery,"  and  that  the  king 
"  was  dressed  in  a  crimson  doublet  with  chausses  or 
breeches  of  yellow  satin.  Over  his  shoulders  was 
thrown  a  cassock  or  mantilla  of  rich  brocade,  and  a 
sopra  vest  of  the  same  material  concealed  his  cuirass. 
By  his  side,  close  girt,  he  wore  a  Moorish  scymitar, 
and  beneath  his  bonnet  his  hair  was  confined  by  a  cap 


PRESCOTT  195 

or  head-dress  of  the  finest  stuff.  Ferdinand  was 
mounted  on  a  noble  war-horse  of  a  bright  chestnut 
color." 

The  account  of  the  Inquisition  is  eminently  unsat- 
isfactory. No  adequate  motive  is  assigned  for  it,  no 
sufficient  cause.  It  stands  in  this  book  as  a  thing 
with  consequences  enough,  and  bad  enough,  but  no 
cause ;  you  know  not  why  it  came.  Mr.  Prescott  treats 
Catholicism  fairly.  We  do  not  remember  a  line  in 
these  volumes  which  seems  dictated  by  anti-Catholic 
bigotry.  He  has  no  sympathy  with  the  Inquisition, 
he  looks  on  it  with  manly  aversion ;  but  he  treats  the 
subject  with  little  ability,  not  showing  how  subtly  the 
Inquisition  worked,  undermining  the  church  and  the 
state,  and  corrupting  life  in  its  most  sacred  sources. 
Who  made  the  Inquisition,  for  what  purpose  was  its 
machinery  set  a-going,  what  effect  did  it  have  on  the 
whole  nation  ?  —  these  are  questions  which  it  was  Mr. 
Prescott's  business  to  answer,  but  which,  as  we  think, 
he  has  failed  to  answer.  Whosoever  brought  it  to  pass, 
there  is  little  doubt  but  it  gained  Ferdinand  and  Isa- 
bella the  title  of  Catholic.  But  our  historian  does  not 
like  to  lay  the  blame  on  them ;  they  are  the  heroes  of 
his  story.  Ferdinand  may  indeed  be  blamed,^ —  it  were 
difficult  in  this  century  to  write  and  not  blame  him ; 
but  Isabella  must  not  be  censured  for  this  —  her  hero- 
ism is  to  be  spotless.  The  spirit  of  chivalry  in  our 
author  is  too  strong  for  the  spirit  of  humanity.  He 
thinks  Ferdinand  may  have  had  political  motives  for 
establishing  the  Inquisition,  but  Isabella  only  religious 
motives  for  its  establishment  in  Castile.  Certainly 
there  was  a  great  blame  somewhere ;  it  falls  not  on 
the  people  who  had  neither  the  ability  nor  the  will  to 
establish  it,  nor  on  the  aristocracy  of  nobles  and  rich 


196  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

men, —  they  had  much  to  lose,  and  httle  to  gain ;  it 
was  always  hateful  to  them.  The  priests,  no  doubt, 
were  in  favor  of  the  Inquisition^  but  they  could  not 
have  introduced  it ;  nay,  could  have  had  little  influence 
in  bringing  it  about  if  the  crown  had  opposed  it. 
Ferdinand  and  Isabella  were  no  slaves  to  the  priesthood, 
they  knew  how  to  favor  the  interests  of  the  church 
when  it  served  their  turn ;  but  no  forehead  was  more 
brazen,  on  hand  more  iron  than  theirs  to  confront  and 
put  down  any  insolence  of  sacerdotal  power.  Isabella 
did  not  favor  the  old  Archbishop  of  Toledo;  she 
abridged  the  power  of  the  priests ;  nay,  that  of  the 
Pope,  and  easily  seized  from  him  what  other  monarchs 
had  long  clutched  at  in  vain.  She  allowed  no  appeals 
to  him.  The  Pragmaticas  of  Isabella  tended  to  re- 
strict the  power  of  the  clergy  and  of  the  Pope  within 
narrower  limits  than  before.  Ferdinand  and  Isabella 
are  the  very  parties  to  be  blamed  for  the  Inquisition ; 
if  so  enlightened  above  their  age  the  more  to  be  blamed, 
if  cool-headed  and  farsighted  they  deserve  more  re- 
proach, if  Isabella  were  so  religious  as  it  is  contended 
then  the  severest  censure  is  to  be  pronounced  against 
her.  It  was  only  thirty-six  years  before  the  Reforma- 
tion that  she  introduced  the  Inquisition  to  Castile.  It 
is  idle  to  lay  the  blame  on  Torquemada;  we  profess  no 
great  veneration  for  this  genuine  son  of  Saint  Dominic, 
but  let  him  answer  for  his  own  sins,  not  his  master's. 
We  cannot  but  think  history  is  unjust  in  painting  Isa- 
bella so  soft  and  fair,  while  her  inquisitor-general  is 
portrayed  in  the  blackest  colors,  and  she,  with  all  her 
intelligence,  charity,  and  piety,  puts  the  necks  of  the 
people  into  his  remorseless  hands.  Ferdinand  and  Isa- 
bella were  not  fools,  to  be  deluded  by  a  priest,  however 
cunning.     It  seems  to  us  that  the  Inquisition  must  be 


PRESCOTT  19T 

set  down  to  their  account,  and  should  cover  them  both 
with  shame ;  that  as  James  the  Second  is  to  be  blamed 
for  JefFeries  and  the  bloody  assizes,  so  are  Ferdinand 
and  Isabella  for  Torquemada  and  the  Inquisition.  Mr. 
Prescott  admits  the  most  obvious  and  peraicious  cruel- 
ties thereof,  but  has  not  the  heart  to  trace  the  evil  to 
its  source.  It  is  the  fashion  of  certain  writers  to  dwell 
with  delight  on  every  fault  committed  by  the  masses  of 
men.  What  eloquent  denunciation  have  we  heard  on 
the  "  horrid  crimes  of  the  old  French  Revolution ;" 
"  horrid  crimes  "  they  were  and  let  them  be  denounced, 
but  when  the  writers  come  to  butcheries  done  by  the 
masters  of  mankind  they  have  no  voice  to  denounce 
such  atrocities.  Yet  both  equally  proceed  from  the 
same  maxim,  that  might  is  right.  Llorente  may  be 
wrong  in  the  numbers  who  suffered  by  the  Inquisition ; 
perhaps  there  were  not  13,000  burned  alive  at  the 
stake,  and  191,143  who  suffered  other  tortures.  Sup- 
pose there  were  but  half  that  number,  nay,  a  tenth 
part ;  still  it  is  enough  to  cover  any  monarchy  in  Eu- 
rope, since  the  twelfth  century,  with  shame.  Grant 
that  Torquemada  projected  the  scheme;  the  fact  that 
Isabella  allowed  it  to  be  executed  shows  that  she  was  of 
soul  akin  to  her  infamous  ancestor,  Peter  the  Cruel, 
and  deserves  the  sharp  censure  of  every  just  historian. 
We  come  next  to  speak  of  the  Moors  and  Jews.  At 
the  time  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella  there  were  in  Spain 
two  distinct  tribes  of  men.  On  the  one  side  were  the 
descendants  of  the  Visigoths,  one  of  the  new  nations 
who  had  appeared  in  history  not  many  centuries  be- 
fore, and  united  with  the  existing  population  of  Spain, 
as  the  Romans  had  formerly  united  with  the  settlers 
they  found  there;  on  the  other  side  were  two  nations, 
descended,  as  it  is  said,  from  Abram,  the  mythological 


198  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ancestor  of  numerous  tribes  of  Asia,  the  Moors  and 
the  Jews.     Both  of  these  nations  had  been  for  centuries 
distinguished  for  their  civihzation ;  they  had  long  dwelt 
on  the  same  soil  with  the  Spaniards,  and  if  we  may 
believe  the  tale,  few  families  of  the  Spanish  nobility 
were  quite  free  from  all  Moorish  or  all  Hebrew  taint. 
A    philosophical    historian    would    find    an    attractive 
theme  in  the  meeting  of  nations  so  diverse  In  origin, 
language,  manners,  and  religion,  as  the   sons   of  the 
East  and  the  West.     It  would  be  curious  to  trace  the 
effects  of  their  union,  to  learn  what  the  Hebrews  and 
the  Moors  had  brought  to   Spain  and  what  they  es- 
tablished  there;   how  much  had  been   gained  by   this 
mingling  of  races,  which,  as  some  think,  is  a  perpetual 
condition   of  national  progress.      The   Jews   were  not 
barbarians,  they   are  commonly   superior  to  the   class 
they  mingle  with  In  all  countries.      The  Moors  were 
amongst    the    most    enlightened    nations    of    Europe: 
they  had  done  much  to  promote  the  common  Industrial 
arts,  the   higher  arts   of  beauty;  they  had  practiced 
agriculture    and    the    mechanic    arts    with    skill    and 
science,    for    unlike    the    Spaniards,    they    were    not 
ashamed  of  work ;  they  had  fostered  science  and  letters, 
on  their  hearth  had  kept  the  sacred  fire  snatched  from 
the  altar  of  the  INIuses  before  their  temple  went  to  the 
ground,  and  still  fed  and  watched  its  flame,  in  some 
ages   almost  alone  the   guardians   of  that  vestal  fire. 
The  English  reader  familiar  with  Gibbon's  account  of 
the  Arabian  race, —  a  chapter  not  without  Its  faults, 
but  which  even  now  must  still  be  called  masterly, — 
looks  for  something  not  Inferior  in  this  history,  where 
the  occasion  equally  demands  it.     But  he  looks  in  vain. 
The  chapter  which  treats  of  the  Spanish  Arabs,  though 
not  without  merit,  is  hardly  worthy  of  a  place  in  a 
history  written  In  this  age  of  the  world. 


PRESCOTT  199 

After  the  two  chief  monarchies  of  Spain  were  prac- 
tically united  into  one,  it  was  not  to  be  expected  that 
the  Catholic  sovereigns  would  allow  so  fair  a  portion 
of  the  peninsula  to  remain  in  the  hands  of  the  Moors. 
They  had  onl}^  been  there  on  sufferance,  and  seem  never 
to  have  recovered  from  their  terrible  defeat  in  1210. 
Spanish  sovereigns,  with  the  spirit  of  that  age,  would 
wish  to  subdue  the  Moors  —  Christians,  the  "  In- 
fidels ;"  and  when  such  feelings  exist  an  occasion  for 
war  is  not  long  to  seek.  The  conquest  of  a  rich  king- 
dom like  that  of  Granada  with  a  high  civilization,  is  an 
affair  of  much  importance ;  the  explusion  of  a  whole 
people  in  modern  times,  though  still  meditated  by  men 
whom  the  chances  of  an  election  bring  to  the  top  of 
society  in  Republican  America,  is  an  unusual  thing,  and 
in  this  case  it  was  barbarous  not  less  than  unusual. 

Mr.  Prescott  does  justice  to  the  industry,  intel- 
ligence, skill,  and  the  general  civilization  of  the  Moors ; 
while  he  points  out  defects  and  blemishes  in  their  in- 
stitutions with  no  undue  severity,  he  has  yet  just  and 
beautiful  things  to  say  of  them.  But  he  glozes  over 
the  injustice  shown  towards  them,  and  averts  the 
sj^mpathy  of  the  reader  for  the  suffering  nation  by 
the  remark,  that  "  they  had  long  since  reached  their 
utmost  limit  of  advancement  as  a  people ;"  "  that  dur- 
ing the  latter  period  of  their  existence  they  appear  to 
have  reposed  in  a  state  of  torpid  and  luxurious  in- 
dulgence, which  would  seem  to  argue  that  when  causes 
of  external  excitement  were  withdrawn  the  inherent 
vices  of  their  social  institutions  had  incapacitated  them 
from  the  further  production  of  excellence."  Then  he 
puts  the  blame,  if  blame  there  be,  on  Providence,  and 
says,  "  in  this  impotent  condition  it  was  wisely  ordered 
that  their  territory   should  be   occupied   by   a  people 


200  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

whose  religion  and  more  liberal  form  of  government 
qualified  them  for  advancing  still  higher  the 
interests  of  humanity."  Mr.  Prescott  elsewhere 
speaks  with  manly  and  becoming  indignation  of  the 
conduct  of  Ximenes,  who  burnt  the  elegant  libraries  of 
the  Moors ;  yet  he  has  not  censure  enough,  it  seems  to 
us,  for  the  barbarous  edict  which  drove  the  Moors  into 
hypocrisy  or  exile. 

The  expulsion  of  the  Jews  is  treated  of  in  the  same 
spirit:  the  blame  is  laid  in  part  on  the  priests,  on 
Torquemada,  and  in  part  on  the  spirit  of  the  age. 
Both  were  bad  enough,  no  doubt,  but  if  Ferdinand  and 
Isabella,  as  represented,  were  before  their  age  in  states- 
manship, and  the  latter  far  in  advance  of  its  religion, 
we  see  not  how  they  can  be  shielded  from  blame.  It 
is  the  duty  of  an  historian  to  measure  men  by  the  gen- 
eral standard  of  their  times, —  certainly  we  are  not  to 
expect  the  morals  of  the  nineteenth  century  from  one 
who  lived  in  the  ninth ;  but  it  is  also  the  historian's 
duty  to  criticise  that  spirit,  and  when  a  superior  man 
rises  he  must  not  be  judged  merely  by  the  low  standard 
of  his  age,  but  the  absolute  standard  of  all  ages.  Such 
a  judgment  we  seldom  find  in  this  work.  Many  acts 
of  these  princes  show  that  they  were  short-sighted. 
Allowing  Isabella's  zeal  for  the  church,  which  is 
abundantly  proved,  it  must  yet  be  confessed  that  she 
possessed  its  worst  qualities  i —  bigotry,  intolerance, 
and  cruelty  —  in  what  might  be  called  the  heroic  de- 
gree. Ferdinand  cared  little  for  any  interest  but  his 
own.  We  doubt,  after  all,  if  it  was  love  of  the  church 
which  expelled  the  Moors  and  the  Jews,  and  think 
it  was  a  love  yet  more  vulgar;  namely,  the  love  of 
plunder.  He  hit  the  nail  on  the  head  who  declared 
that    uncounted   numbers    of    Jews    were   richer    than 


PRESCOTT  SOI 

Christians  —  innumeri  [^Judaoruin]  Christianis  diti- 
ores.  The  Jews  displayed  their  usual  firmness  in  refus- 
ing to  pretend  to  be  converted,  but  their  resolution  to 
adhere  to  the  faith  of  their  fathers  and  their  conscience 
meets  with  but  scanty  praise  from  our  author,  living 
under  institutions  formed  by  religious  exiles,  though 
he  calls  it  "  an  extraordinary  act  of  self-devotion." 

Mr.  Prescott's  defence  of  Isabella  does  little  honor 
to  his  head  or  heart,  but  is  in  harmony  with  the  gen- 
eral tone  of  the  history.  The  Catholic  sovereign  thus 
struck  a  deadly  blow  at  the  industry  of  the  nation. 
The  Moors  had  almost  created  agriculture  in  Spain ; 
they  had  founded  the  most  important  manufactures, 
that  of  silk,  wool,  leather,  and  of  tempered  steel. 
They  were  ingenious  mechanics  and  excellent  artists. 
Since  that  time  foreigners  have  braved  the  national 
prejudice  against  manual  work.  It  was  the  Flemish 
and  the  Italians  who  re-established  the  manufacture 
of  tapestry,  of  woolen  goods,  and  of  work  in  wood; 
and  more  recently  the  English  and  French  have  en- 
gaged there  in  the  manufacture  of  linen,  cotton,  and 
mixed  goods.  In  the  time  of  Louis  XIV.  more  than 
seventy-five  thousand  Frenchmen  had  gone  to  settle 
in  Spain. 

Mr.  Prescott's  account  of  the  literature  of  Spain 
has  been  much  admired,  not  wholly  without  reason. 
The  chapters  which  treat  of  the  Castilian  literature 
were  certainly  needed  for  the  completeness  of  the  work. 
Everybody  knows  how  much  Mr.  Schlosser  adds  to 
the  value  of  his  histories  by  his  laborious  examination 
of  the  literature,  science,  and  art  of  the  nations  he 
describes.  To  know  a  nation's  deeds  we  must  under- 
stand its  thoughts.  "  It  will  be  necessary,"  says  Mr. 
Prescott,  "  in  order  to  complete  the  view  of  the  internal 


202  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

administration  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella,  to  show  its 
operation  on  the  intellectual  culture  of  the  nation. 
It  is  particularly  deserving  of  note  in 
the  present  reign  which  stimulated  the  active  develop- 
ment of  the  national  energies  in  every  department  of 
science,  and  which  forms  a  leading  epoch  in  the  orna- 
mental literature  of  the  country.  The  present  and 
following  chapter  will  embrace  the  mental  progress  of 

the    kingdom, through    the    whole    of 

Isabella's  reign,  in  order  to  exhibit  as  far  as  possible 
its   entire  results." 

The  education  of  Isabella  was  neglected  in  her 
youth,  and  at  a  mature  age  she  undertook  to  supply 
her  defects,  and  studied  with  such  success,  says  one 
of  her  contemporaries,  that  "  in  less  than  a  year  her 
admirable  genius  enabled  her  to  obtain  so  good  a 
knowledge  of  the  Latin  tongue  that  she  could  under- 
stand without  much  difficulty  what  was  written  or 
spoken  in  it."  She  took  pains  with  the  education  of 
her  own  children,  and  those  of  the  nobility.  She  in- 
vited Peter  Martyr  and  Marinaeo  SIculo  to  aid  in  edu- 
cating the  nobility,  which  they  readily  did.  Mr.  Pres- 
cott  mentions  the  names  of  several  noblemen  who  en- 
gaged zealously  in  the  pursuit  of  letters.  "  No  Span- 
iard," says  Glovio,  "  was  accounted  noble  who  held 
science  In  indifference."  Men  of  distinguished  birth 
were  eager,  we  are  told,  to  lead  the  way  in  science. 
Lords,  also,  of  Illustrious  rank,  lent  their  influence  to 
the  cause  of  good  letters ;  one  lady,  called  La  Latina, 
instructed  the  Queen  in  the  Roman  tongue,  another 
lectured  on  the  Latin  classics  at  Salamanca,  and  a 
third  on  rhetoric  at  Alcala.  Yet,  spite  of  all  this 
royal  zeal,  this  feminine  and  noble  attention  to  letters, 
Mr.  Prescott  confesses  that  little  progress  was  made 


PRESCOTT  203 

in  the  poetic  art  since  the  beginning  of  the  century. 
Once  cause  thereof  he  finds  in  the  rudeness  of  the  lan- 
guage, which  certainly  had  not  become  more  rude  dur- 
ing the  progress  of  so  much  Latinity  and  rhetoric ; 
and  another  "  in  the  direction  to  utility  manifested  in 
this  active  reign,  which  led  such  as  had  leisure  for 
intellectual  pursuits  to  cultivate  science  rather  than 
abandon  themselves  to  the  mere  revels  of  the  imagina- 
tion." 

Let  us  look  at  this  subject  a  little  more  in  detail, 
and  see  what  opportunities  Spain  had  for  intellectual 
culture,  what  use  she  made  of  them,  what  results  were 
obtained,  and  how  Mr.  Prescott  has  described  "  the 
mental  progress  of  the  nation." 

The  Arabians,  as  we  have  twice  said  before,  were 
for  some  time  the  most  enlightened  nation  in  the  world ; 
they  cultivated  arts,  the  useful  and  the  elegant,  with 
singular  success ;  they  diligently  studied  physics  and 
metaphysics ;  they  pursued  literature,  and  have  left 
behind  them  numerous  proofs  of  their  zeal,  if  not  of 
their  genius.  There  was  a  time  when  the  great  classic 
masters  of  science  were  almost  forgotten  by  the 
Christians,  but  carefully  studied  and  held  in  honor  by 
the  disciples  of  Mahomet.  Men  of  other  nations 
sought  instruction  in  their  schools,  or  sat  at  the  feet 
of  their  sages,  or  studied  and  translated  their  works. 
By  means  of  their  vicinity  to  the  Moorish  Arabs  the 
Spaniards  had  an  excellent  opportunity  to  cultivate 
science  and  letters,  but  they  made  little  use  of  those 
advantages.  Robert  and  Daniel  Morley,  Campano, 
Atkelhard,  Gerbert  of  Aurillac  (afterwards  Sylvester 
II.),  and  others,  learned  from  the  Arabian  masters; 
but  there  were  few  or  no  Spaniards  of  any  eminence 
who  took  pains  to  study  the  thought  of  their  Mahom^ 
etan  neighbors. 


204  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

It  seems  to  us  that  Mr.  Prescott  a  good  deal  over- 
rates the  hterary  tendency  of  the  Spaniards  under 
Ferdinand  and  Isabella.  It  is  true,  at  that  time  a 
great  movement  of  thought  went  on  in  the  rest  of 
Europe.  The  capture  of  Constantinople  drove  the 
Greek  scholars  from  their  ancient  home;  the  printing- 
press  diffused  the  Scriptures,  the  ancient  laws,  the  old 
classics,  spreading  new  thought  rapidly  and  wide. 
Literature  and  philosophy  were  studied  with  great 
vigor.  This  new  movement  appeared  in  Italy,  in 
Switzerland,  in  Germany,  and  France,  even  in  Eng- 
land. But  in  Spain  we  find  few  and  inconsiderable 
traces  thereof.  Mr.  Prescott  cites  Erasmus  for  the 
fact  that  "  liberal  studies  were  brought  in  the  course 
of  a  few  years  in  Spain  to  so  flourishing  a  condition, 
as  might  not  only  excite  the  admiration  but  serve  as 
a  model  to  the  most  cultivated  nations  of  Europe." 
But  it  deserves  to  be  remembered  that  Erasmus  made 
this  statement  in  a  letter  to  a  Spanish  professor  at 
the  University  of  Alcala,  and  besides,  founds  his  praise 
on  the  religion  as  much  as  on  the  learning  of  the 
country.  In  a  former  letter  he  had  said  that  the 
study  of  literature  had  been  neglected  in  Germany  to 
such  a  degree  that  men  would  not  take  learning  if 
offered  for  nothing, — "  nobody  was  willing  to  hear  the 
professors  who  were  supported  at  the  public  charge." 
But  elsewhere  Erasmus  knows  how  to  say  that  in  Ger- 
many their  "  schools  of  learning  were  numerous  as  the 
towns."     But  this  is  of  small  importance. 

It  is  certain  that  Ferdinand  and  Isabella  did  some- 
thing to  promote  the  literary  culture  of  their  people; 
yet  it  had  not  been  wholly  neglected  before  the  Uni- 
versity of  Huesca  (Osca)  was  certainly  old.  Plutarch 
in  his  Life  of  Sertorius  informs  us  that  the  Roman 


PRESCOTT  205 

general  founded  a  school  there,  and  some  one  says 
that  Pontius  Pilate  was  a  "  Professor  Juris " — 
utriusque  juris,  we  suppose  —  on  that  foundation; 
Spaniards  may  believe  the  story.  The  University  of 
Seville  was  founded  in  990,  that  of  Valencia  in  1200, 
or  about  that  time,  that  of  Salamanca  in  1239, — 
though  some  place  it  earlier  and  some  much  later ; 
universities  had  been  founded  at  Lerida  and  Valladolid 
in  the  fourteenth  century.  This  statement  may  read 
weU  on  paper,  but  it  is  plain  that  universities  had 
done  little  to  enlighten  the  nation,  otherwise  Cardinal 
Ximenes  had  never  celebrated  that  auto  da  fe  with 
the  Arabian  libraries. 

Queen  Isabella,  we  are  told,  encouraged  the  intro- 
duction of  printing  into  Spain,  and  caused  many  of 
the  works  of  her  own  subjects  to  be  printed  at  her 
own  charge;  that  she  exempted  a  German  printer 
from  taxation,  and  allowed  foreign  books  to  be  im- 
ported free  of  duty.  But  more  than  twenty  years 
elapsed  after  the  discovery  of  the  art  before  we  hear 
of  a  single  printing-press  in  the  kingdom ;  and  dur- 
ing the  whole  of  the  fifteenth  century  we  cannot  find 
that  four  hundred  editions  were  printed  in  all  Spain, 
while  during  that  period  the  press  of  Florence  had 
sent  forth  five  hundred  and  fifty-three,  that  of  Milan 
six  hundred  and  eighty-three,  that  of  Paris  seven 
hundred  and  fifty-seven,  Rome  nine  hundred  and  fifty- 
three,  Venice  three  thousand  one  hundred  and  thirty- 
seven.  The  little  city  of  Strasburg  alone  had  pub- 
lished more  than  the  whole  kingdom  of  Spain.  About 
fifteen  thousand  editions  were  printed  in  the  last 
thirty  years  of  that  century.  The  character  of  the 
works  printed  in  Spain  is  significant ;  first  of  all  comes 
a  collection  of  songs  in  honor  of  the  Virgin,  setting 


206  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

forth  the  miraculous  conception.  It  is  true,  a  transla- 
tion of  the  Bible  into  the  Limousin  dialect  was  printed 
at  Valencia  in  1478,  but  during  the  fifteenth  century 
we  do  not  find  that  a  single  edition  of  the  Vulgate  or 
of  the  Civil  Law  was  printed  in  all  Spain,  though  no 
less  than  ninety-eight  editions  of  the  Latin  Bible  came 
forth  from  the  presses  of  Europe. 

Mr.  Prescott  professes  to  describe  the  mental  pro- 
gress of  the  nation.  To  accomplish  this  the  historian 
must  tell  us  the  result  of  what  was  done  in  law,  in 
the  study  of  the  Roman,  the  National,  and  the  Canon 
Law,  for  all  three  have  been  important  elements  in 
the  development  of  the  Spanish  nation ;  what  was  done 
in  physics ;  in  metaphysics,  including  ethics  and 
theology,  and  in  general  literature.  Now  Mr.  Pres- 
cott, in  this  examination,  passes  entirely  over  the  first 
three  departments,  and  bestows  his  labor  wholly  upon 
the  last.  It  is  true,  he  treats  of  the  alteration  of  the 
laws  in  his  last  chapter,  but  in  a  brief  and  unsatis- 
factory style.  Yet  he  had  before  told  us  that  the  at- 
tention of  studious  men  was  directed  to  science,  and  it 
is  elsewhere  asserted  that  much  was  done  in  this  reign 
for  the  reformation  and  codification  of  the  laws.  It 
would  be  interesting  to  the  mere  reader,  and  highly 
important  to  the  philosophical  student  who  wishes  to 
understand  the  mental  progress  of  Spain,  to  know  how 
much  the  Roman  Law  was  studied,  how  much  the 
Canon  Law,  and  what  modifications  were  made  thereby 
in  the  national  institutions  themselves,  by  whom,  and 
with  what  effect.  After  all  that  has  been  written  of 
late  years,  it  would  not  be  difficult,  certainly  not  im- 
posible,  to  do  this.  The  publication  of  Las  Siete  Par- 
tidas  for  the  first  time  in  1491,  twenty  years  after  the 
accession  of  Isabella  to  the  throne,  was  an  important 


PRESCOTT  207 

event ;  the  legal  labors  of  Alfonso  de  Montalvo  de- 
served some  notice ;  the  celebrated  Consolato  del  Mare, 
which  has  had  so  important  an  influence  on  the  mari- 
time laws  of  Europe  and  America,  and  first  got  printed 
during  this  reign,  certainly  required  some  notice, 
even  in  a  brief  sketch  of  the  intellectual  history  of 
that  reign.  In  all  Catholic  countries  the  study  of 
the  Canon  Law  is  of  great  importance,  but  during  the 
fifteenth  century,  though  more  than  forty  editions 
thereof  got  printed  in  other  parts  of  Europe,  we  do 
not  find  one  in  Spain. 

In  science,  including  the  mathematics  and  all  de- 
partments of  physics,  the  Spanish  did  little.  Yet 
circumstances  were  uncommonly  favorable;  the  con- 
quest of  Granada  put  them  in  possession  of  the  libra- 
ries of  the  Moors,  which  were  destined  only  to  the 
flames ;  under  the  guidance  of  Columbus,  they  dis- 
covered new  lands  and  had  ample  oportunities  to  study 
the  geography,  zoology,  and  botany  of  countries  so 
inviting  to  the  naturalist.  But  nothing  was  done.  It 
is  true,  Andres,  with  his  national  prejudices,  under- 
takes to  mention  some  names  that  are  illustrious  in  medi- 
cine, but  Piquer  and  Lampillas,  Monardes,  Christoforo 
da  Costa,  Laguma,  "  the  Spanish  Galen,"  and  the  rest 
that  he  mentions,  may  be  celebrated  throughout  all 
Spain  and  even  in  La  Mancha ;  we  think  they  are  but 
little  known  elsewhere.  In  the  departments  of  geo- 
graphy and  astronomy  the  Spanish  accomplished  noth- 

.  ing  worthy  of  mention. 

P^  In  metaphysics  and  ethics  there  are  no  Spanish 
names  before  the  sixteenth  century,  few  even  then ; 
scholastic  philosophy,  which  once  prevailed  so  widely 
in  the  West  of  Europe,  seems  not  to  have  found  a 
footing  in  the  Peninsula.     In  the  tenth  century  Ger- 


208  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

bert  went  to  Spain  to  learn  philosophy  of  the  Arabs ; 
in  the  eleventh,  Constantinus  Africanus  communicated 
its  doctrines  to  the  world ;  in  the  twelfth  and  thir- 
teenth, Athelhard  of  Bath,  called  Athelhard  the  Goth, 
Gherard,  Otho,  of  Frisingen,  Michael  Scott,  and 
others,  filled  Europe  with  translations  of  Arabian  au- 
thors.    But  Spain  did  nothing. 

In  theology  the  Spaniards  have  but  one  work  to 
show  of  any  note,  which  dates  from  the  period  in  ques- 
tion. The  Complutensian  Polyglot  was  a  great  work; 
but  to  achieve  that  nothing  was  needed  but  great 
wealth  and  the  labors  of  a  few  learned  and  diligent 
men.  The  wealth  was  abundant,  and  flowed  at  the 
Cardinal's  command ;  the  treasures  of  the  Vatican  and 
of  all  the  libraries  of  Europe  were  freely  offered ;  the 
manuscripts  of  the  Jews  in  Spain  were  at  Ximenes' 
command;  the  services  of  accomplished  scholars  could 
easily  be  bought.  Learned  Greeks  there  were  in  the 
South  of  Europe  seeking  for  bread.  Of  the  nine 
men  who  were  engaged  in  this  undertaking,  one  was 
a  Greek  and  three  were  Jews,  of  course  converted 
Jews.  Artists  came  from  Germany  to  cast  the  types 
for  the  printing.  Mr.  Prescott  exaggerates  the  diffi- 
culty of  the  undertaking;  the  scholars  could  be  had, 
the  manuscripts  borrowed  or  bought,  indeed,  so  poorly 
was  the  matter  conducted  that  some  manuscripts,  pur- 
chased at  great  cost,  came  too  late  for  use.  Mr.  Pres- 
cott says,  "  There  were  no  types  in  Spain,  if  indeed 
m  any  part  of  Europe,  in  the  Oriental  character,"  but 
only  three  alphabets  were  needed  in  the  Polyglots — 
the  Roman,  the  Greek,  and  the  Hebrew.  The  two  first 
were  common  enough,  even  in  Spain ;  and  in  various 
parts  of  Europe,  before  the  end  of  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury, no  less  than  thirty-nine  editions  had  been  printed 


PRESCOTT  209 

of  the  whole  or  a  part  of  the  Hebrew  Bible.  The 
Complutensian  Polyglot  is  indeed  a  valuable  work,  but 
at  this  day  few  men  will  contend  that  in  the  Old 
Testament  it  has  a  text  better  than  the  edition  at 
Soncino,  or  that  the  Complutensian  New  Testament  is 
better  than  that  of'  Erasmus.  Indeed,  we  hazard 
nothing  in  saying  that  Erasmus,  a  sigle  scholar  and 
a  private  man  often  in  want  of  money,  did  more  to 
promote  the  study  of  the  Scriptures  and  the  revival  of 
letters  than  Cardinal  Ximenes  and  all  Spain  put  to- 
gether ;  and  never  burnt  up  a  library  of  manuscripts 
because  they  were  not  orthodox. 

All  these  matters,  except  the  Polyglot,  Mr.  Pres- 
cott  passes  over  with  few  words  in  his  sketch  of  the 
mental  progress  of  Spain  in  her  golden  age.  While 
France,  Germany,  Italy,  and  England  made  rapid 
strides  in  their  mental  progress,  Spain  did  little,  lit- 
tle in  law,  Httle  in  science,  in  theology  little.  But 
Mr.  Prescott  writes  in  a  pleasing  style  about  another 
portion  of  the  Hterature  of  Spain,  which  is,  after  all, 
her  most  characteristic  production  in  letters,  her  bal- 
lads and  the  drama.  The  Redondilla  is  the  most  dis- 
tinctive production  of  the  Spanish  muse.  The  ballads 
of  Spain  are  unlike  those  of  England,  of  Scotland,  and 
of  Germany,  in  many  respects,  yet  bear  the  same  rela- 
tion to  the  genius  of  the  people.  They  grew  up  in 
the  wild  soil  of  the  Peninsula ;  no  royal  or  ecclesiastical 
hand  was  needed  to  foster  them.  Beautiful  they  are, 
—  the  wild  flowers  of  the  field, —  but  under  the  eye 
of  Isabella  they  began  to  droop  and  wither;  no  new 
plants  came  up  so  fair  and  fragrant  as  the  old.  Why 
not?  The  life  of  the  people  was  trodden  down  by  the 
hoof  of  the  priest  whom  Isabella  had  sent  to  his  work. 

The   language   was   rude,    says   Mr.    Prescott.     That 
11—14 


no  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

hindered  not ;  Burns  found  a  rude  speech  in  Auld 
Scotland,  but  the  verses  he  sung  in  "  hamely  westHn 
jingle "  will  live  longer  than  the  well-filed  lines  of 
Pope.  Rudeness  of  language  hindered  not  the  genius 
of  Chaucer,  of  Hans  Sachs.  Mr.  Prescott  had  small 
space  to  note  the  alteration  of  laws,  the  change  of 
social  systems,  or  the  progress  of  civilization  in  Spain, 
but  he  has  some  twenty  pages  to  bestow  upon  the 
drama,  and  gives  us  an  analysis  of  the  "  Tragicomedy 
of  Celestina,  or  Calisto  and  Melibea,"  spending  four 
pages  upon  such  a  work.  A  philosophical  reader 
would  consent  to  spare  all  mention  of  Encina,  Naharre, 
Oliva,  Cotu,  and  even  Fernando  de  Roxas,  if  in  the 
place  which  they  but  cumber  there  had  been  an  account 
of  the  real  thought,  manners,  and  life  of  the  nation. 
Far  be  it  from  us  to  complain  of  the  time  and  space 
allotted  to  the  popular  literature  of  Spain,  the  chap- 
ters are  the  best  of  the  work;  but  one  familiar  with 
that  delightful  growth  laments  that  the  historian  made 
no  better  use  of  his  materials  to  indicate  the  life, 
character,  and  sentiments  of  the  people. 

Mr.  Prescott  overrates  the  excellence  of  Queen  Isa- 
bella. The  character  of  Ferdinand  was  so  atrocious 
that  it  admits  of  no  defence.  Shall  it  be  said  that  the 
age  was  distinguished  for  fraud,  double-dealing,  per- 
fidy, and  hypocrisy.''  It  affords  no  good  defence,  for 
it  was  in  these  very  qualities  that  Ferdinand  surpassed 
his  age.  He  was  a  tyrannical  king;  a  treacherous 
ally,  a  master  whom  no  servant  could  trust;  a  faith- 
less husband  in  the  hfe  of  Queen  Isabella,  and  false 
to  her  memory  after  her  death.  Few  will  deny  that 
he  had  some  ability  and  some  knowledge  of  kingcraft, 
though  we  think  his  powers  and  pohtical  foresight  have 
been  somewhat  overrated.     The  great  men  of  the  realm 


PRESCOTT  211 

he  used  as  his  servants,  but  when  they  acquired  renown 
he  endeavored  to  ruin  them ;  cast  them  off  neglected 
and  covered  with  dishonor.  His  treatment  of  Colum- 
bus, Gonsalvo,  or  of  Ximenes,  would  have  been  a  dis- 
grace to  any  prince  in  Christendom.  He  was  no  friend 
of  the  nobility  and  quite  as  little  the  friend  of  his  peo- 
ple; he  did  not  favor  commerce  or  the  arts,  no,  nor 
letters  and  science.  His  zeal  for  religion  appears 
chiefly  in  the  expulsion  of  the  Moors  and  the  Jews, 
Isabella  had  some  natural  repugnance  to  the  establish- 
ment of  slavery  in  America,  but  Ferdinand  had  none. 
Mr.  Prescott,  who  is  not  blind  to  his  faults,  says  truly, 
"  His  was  the  spirit  of  egotism.  The  circle  of  his 
views  might  be  more  or  less  expanded,  but  self  was 
the  steady,  unchangeable  centre." 

Mr.  Prescott  censures  Ferdinand,  but  it  sems  to 
us  for  the  purpose  of  making  a  contrast  with  Isabella, 
quite  as  much  as  in  reference  to  the  unchangeable  laws 
of  morality ;  the  effects  of  his  character  on  the  in- 
stitutions of  his  country  and  the  welfare  of  his  people 
he  does  not  point  out  in  a  manner  worthy  of  an  his- 
torian. Let  us  turn  to  Isabella.  "  Her  character," 
he  says,  "  was  all  magnanimity,  disinterestedness,  and 
deep  devotion  to  the  interest  of  the  people."  "  Isa- 
bella, discarding  all  the  petty  artifices  of  state  policy 
and  pursuing  the  noblest  ends  by  the  noblest  means, 
stands  far  above  her  age ;  "  "  she  was  solicitous  for 
everything  that  concerned  the  welfare  of  her  people." 
This  is  high  praise ;  but  laying  aside  the  rules  of 
chivalry  let  us  look  in  the  spirit  of  humanity.  The 
great  political  work  of  this  reign  was  the  establish- 
ment of  national  unity  of  action.  Spain  had  been 
divided  into  many  kingdoms,  the  separate  provinces 
of  each  had  been  united  by  a  feeble  tie;  the  power  of 


212  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

the  king  was  resisted  and  diminished  by  the  authority 
of  the  great  barons,  and  thus  the  nation  was  dis- 
tracted, and  its  power  weakened.  Under  these  sov- 
ereigns the  different  kingdoms  were  formed  into  one, 
the  several  provinces  were  closely  united,  the  great 
barons  were  humbled  and  brought  into  dependence 
upon  the  throne ;  and  thus  national  unity  of  action  es- 
tablished by  the  might  of  a  great  central  power.  To 
accomplish  this  work,  the  first  thing  to  be  done  after 
the  marriage  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella,  was  to  dimin- 
ish the  power  of  the  nobles.  The  same  problem  was 
getting  solved  in  other  countries  at  the  same  time. 
In  some  countries  as  the  nobles  lost  power,  the  cities 
with  their  charters  gained  it ;  the  communes,  the 
guilds,  in  short,  the  people,  in  one  form  or  another, 
got  an  increase  of  political  power.  But  in  Spain  it 
was  not  so.  As  power  receded  from  the  nobles  it 
fell  into  the  hands  of  the  king.  The  people  only 
gained  domestic  tranquillity,  not  practical  political 
power,  or  the  theoretic  recognition  of  their  rights. 
Ferdinand  and  Isabella  were  both  jealous  of  the 
Cortes.  Once,  when  Isabella  wanted  the  Cortes  of 
Arragon  to  declare  her  daughter  their  future  sover- 
eign, and  they  refused,  she  exclaimed,  "  It  would  be 
better  to  reduce  the  country  by  arms  at  once  than 
endure  this  insolence  of  the  Cortes."  After  Isabella's 
death  Ferdinand  for  a  long  time  neglected  to  convene 
the  Cortes.  Once  he  obtained  a  dispensation  from 
the  Pope,  allowing  him  to  cancel  his  engagement  with 
the  Cortes.  In  the  first  two  years  of  her  reign,  Isa- 
bella called  three  meetings  of  the  Cortes,  of  the  popu- 
lar branch  alone.  The  motive  was  plain ;  she  wanted 
to  reduce  the  power  of  the  nobles,  and  the  commons 
were  the  appropriate  tool.     After  this  work  was  done 


PRESCOTT  213 

the  sessions  became  rare.  She  made  the  Hermandad 
take  the  place  of  the  Cortes  to  the  great  detriment 
of  popular  liberty.  But  in  1506  the  foolish  Cortes, 
either  incited  by  the  court  or  stimulated  by  the  Span- 
ish desire  of  monopoly,  complained  that  the  right 
of  representation  was  extended  too  far.  Both  Ferdi- 
nand and  Isabella  "  were  averse  to  meetings  of  the 
Cortes  in  Castile  oftener  than  absolutely  necessary, 
and  both  took  care  on  such  occasions  to  have  their 
own  agents  near  the  deputies  to  influence  their  pro- 
ceedings "  and  to  make  the  deputies  understand  that 
they  had  not  so  much  power  as  they  fancied.  If 
Isabella  had  all  the  superlative  qualities  which  Mr. 
Prescott  and  others  also  ascribe  to  her,  the  result 
must  have  been  difl*erent. 

We  will  not  deny  that  Isabella  did  much  for  the 
nation,  much  to  establish  internal  tranquillity,  much 
to  promote  the  security  of  property  and  person.  The 
first  thing  mentioned  by  Don  Clemencin  —  the  restora- 
tion of  the  currency  from  its  debased  condition  —  if 
taken  alone  was  highly  important.  She  elevated  men 
of  worth  to  high  stations,  though  they  were  men  of 
mean  birth;  doubtless  this  was  done  in  part  to  show 
the  nobles  that  she  could  dispense  with  them  in  places 
which  they  had  long  monopolized ;  still  she  knew  how 
to  distinguish  between  the  accidents  and  the  substance 
of  a  man,  and  chose  her  counsellors  accordingly.  Her 
management  of  the  affairs  of  the  church  displayed 
no  little  skill  and  much  energy.  She  kept  the  church 
from  the  incursions  of  the  Pope,  a  task  not  so  difficult 
as  it  would  have  been  a  century  or  two  before,  for 
the  papal  power  was  visibly  on  the  wane ;  still,  on  the 
whole,  we  must  confess  that  she  did  little  to  elevate 
the  religious  character  of  the  clergy  or  the  people. 


S14  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Did  she  encourage  letters  and  establish  printing- 
presses  ?  few  great  works  were  published  in  Spain ;  the 
Lives  of  the  Saints,  treatises  in  honor  of  the  Virgin, 
books  of  "  Sacred  Offices,"  and  fulminations  against 
Moors,  Jews,  and  heretics.  Papal  Bulls,  and  the  works 
of  Raymond  Lully  —  such  were  the  books  which  the 
Spaniards  printed  and  devoured  in  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury. The  works  of  Sallust  were  the  most  important 
works  issued  from  the  press  of  Valencia  in  that  cen- 
tury. Did  she  encourage  science.''  it  bore  no  fruits 
which  the  nation  has  aspired  to  gather  from  the  Span- 
ish tree ;  poetry  ^  little  was  brought  to  pass  which  could 
rival  the  best  works  of  former  days.  In  theology, 
with  the  exception  of  the  Polyglot  and  the  publication 
of  the  Bible  in  the  Limousin  dialect,  certainly  a  sur- 
prising event  in  that  age,  little  was  done,  nothing 
worthy  of  note.  Under  a  hand  so  despotic,  and  un- 
der the  eye  of  the  Inquisition  which  Isabella  had  es- 
tablished, what  could  a  Spaniard  effect  .'^  It  must  be 
confessed  that  Isabella  did  not  foster  the  greatest  in- 
terests of  the  nation.  The  publication  of  proclama- 
tions which  had  the  force  of  law  (pragmaticas),  so 
frequent  in  her  reign,  shows  plainly  enough  her  de- 
sire to  rule  without  the  advice  of  the  people  whose 
constitution  she  thereby  violated.  It  matters  not  that 
they  purport  to  be  made  at  the  demand  of  the  Cortes, 
at  the  request  of  corporate  cities,  or  of  prominent 
men.  Even  in  America  we  could  find  here  and  there 
a  man  in  the  Senate  of  the  United  States  who  would 
recommend  a  powerful  President  to  do  the  same,  per- 
haps a  city  or  even  a  state  to  advise  it.  Those 
proclamations  were  the  passing-bell  of  popular  free- 
dom. Even  if  they  did  not,  as  Mr.  Prescott  assures 
us,  intrench  on  the  principles  of  criminal  law  or  af- 


PRESCOTT  215 

feet  the  transfer  of  property,  they  not  less  under- 
mined the  Hberty  of  Castile.  The  Cortes  of  Valla- 
dolid,  foolish  as  it  was  in  other  respects,  was  right 
in  remonstrating  against  those  pragmaticas.  Mr. 
Prescott  mentions  several  causes  which  contributed 
to  increase  the  royal  power  at  the  expense  of  the  peo- 
ple: the  control  of  the  military  and  ecclesiastical  or- 
ders, the  pensions  and  large  domains,  the  fortified 
places,  the  rights  of  seigneurial  jurisdiction,  the  in- 
crease of  power  over  the  Moors,  the  acquisition  of  ter- 
ritory in  Italy  and  the  discovery  of  a  new  continent ; 
but  he  omits  the  one  cause  which  gave  force  to  all 
these,  the  selfish  disposition  that  counted  political 
power  as  a  right,  which  the  monarch  might  use  for  her 
own  advantage,  not  a  trust  which  she  must  administer 
by  the  rules  of  justice,  and  for  the  good  of  all  her 
subjects.  This  was  the  cause  which  enfeebled  the  peo- 
ple after  it  had  broken  their  noble  tyrants  to  pieces. 
The  rights  of  the  people  were  continually  abridged. 
In  1495  the  nobles  and  the  representatives  of  the  cities 
complained  that  the  people  were  without  arms.  Mr. 
Prescott  thinks  this  fact  a  proof  that  they  were  in  a 
fortunate  condition,  not  remembering  that  in  such  an 
age  an  armed  people  was  what  the  Constitution  is  to 
America;  what  the  British  Parliament  and  acknowl- 
edged law  are  to  England,  the  one  great  barrier 
against  the  incursions  of  the  crown.  She  found  the 
people  burthened  with  an  odious  tax,  imposed  for  a 
temporary  emergency,  and  continued  through  the  in- 
ertia of  the  Cortes  and  the  tyranny  of  the  crown. 
Isabella  had  conscientious  scruples  about  this  tax,  but 
continued  it.  Monopolies  were  established  by  this 
queen,  who  is  represented  as  so  far  before  her  time; 
goods  must  not  be  shipped  in  foreign  vessels  when  a 


216  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Spanish  bottom  could  be  had ;  no  vessel  must  be  sold  to 
a  foreigner,  even  horses  were  not  allowed  to  be  ex- 
ported, gold  and  silver  must  not  be  sent  out  of  Spain 
on  pain  of  death.  Yet  when  she  forbade  the  exporta- 
tion thereof  by  her  commercial  policy,  by  sumptuary 
laws  she  forbade  their  use  at  home.  There  are  four 
things  which  will  long  continue  as  the  indelible  monu- 
ments of  her  reign ;  the  establishment  of  the  Inquisi- 
tion for  the  torture  and  murder  of  her  subjects,  the 
expulsion  of  the  Jews  and  the  Moors,  the  enslaving 
of  the  Indians  in  America,  and  the  establishment  of 
Negro  Slavery  there.  With  this  we  leave  her  and 
her  memory,  to  speak  on  the  general  form  and  style  of 
this  work.  "i 

It  is  no  part  of  our  plan  to  criticise  the  account  of 
civil  and  military  transactions ;  but  so  far  as  we  have 
examined  his  authorities,  Mr.  Prescott  is  remarkably 
accurate.  Some  errors  will  always  escape  the  vigi- 
lance of  an  author,  in  this  case  they  are  rare  and  un- 
important. The  whole  work  is  divided  into  three  por- 
tions ;  an  Introduction,  a  History  of  the  Domestic 
Policy  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella,  and  a  History  of 
their  Foreign  Policy,  their  Discoveries  and  Conquests. 
The  main  division  is  a  good  one,  the  minuter  division 
into  chapters  is  judicious,  and  the  chapters  well  ar- 
ranged. In  separate  chapters  the  author  treats  of 
various  subjects,  so  as  not  to  confuse  the  reader.  But 
we  notice  several  defects  In  the  matter  and  style  of  the 
work.  There  Is  no  description  of  the  large  towns ; 
no  account  of  their  history,  the  growth  or  decline  of 
their  population,  of  their  relation  to  the  villages  and 
hamlets,  of  the  political  tendencies  of  their  inhabitants. 
A  brief  description  of  Madrid,  Toledo,  and  Seville, 
of  Barcelona  and  Valencia,  would  be  of  great  value  t(i 


PRESCOTT  217 

one  who  wished  to  understand  the  age ;  the  materials 
for  this  are  not  wanting. 

Again,  his  portraits  of  distinguished  men  are  not 
good ;  they  often  lack  distinctness  and  specific  char- 
acter. We  have  a  right  to  demand  a  careful  analysis 
of  the  character  of  such  men  as  Columbus,  Gonsalvo, 
and  Ximenes ;  an  historian  never  does  his  duty  com- 
pletely until  he  gives  us  a  picture  of  each  prominent 
man  of  the  times  he  describes.  Portraits  of  men  like 
Torquemada,  Fonseca,  Carillo,  and  Mendoza,  the 
Archbishops  of  Toledo  and  Seville,  of  Bayard  and 
Foix,  of  the  monarchs  of  those  times,  and  of  the  other 
eminent  foreigners  w^ho  come  upon  the  stage,  ought  to 
have  a  place  in  a  work  like  this. 

The  author  does  not  present  himself  to  his  readers 
as  a  philosopher  who  knows  man  scientifically,  and 
therefore  has  an  a  priori  knowledge  of  men ;  nor  does 
he  appear  as  a  man  of  the  world,  who  knows  men  by 
a  wide  practical  acquaintance  with  them.  In  conse- 
quence of  this  twofold  defect  the  reader  finds  neither 
the  careful  judgment  of  the  philosopher  or  the  prac- 
tical judgment  of  the  man  of  affairs.  Both  of  these 
defects  appear  frequently  in  this  work ;  for  example, 
in  his  general  review  of  the  administration  of  Fer- 
dinand and  Isabella,  which  is  not  written  in  the  spirit 
of  the  statesman,  or  the  spirit  of  the  philosopher,  but 
of  an  amiable  gentleman  of  letters  filled  with  the  sjpirit 
of  chivalry. 

The  book  lacks  philosophy  to  a  degree  exceeding 
belief.  The  author  seems  to  know  nothing  of  the 
philosophy  of  history,  and  little,  even,  of  political 
economy.  He  narrates  events  in  their  order  of  time 
with  considerable  skill,  but  the  causes  of  the  events, 
their  place  in  the  general  history  of  the  race,  or  their 


218;  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

influence  in  special  on  the  welfare  of  the  nation,  he 
does  not  appreciate.  He  tells  the  fact  for  the  fact's 
sake.  Hence  there  are  no  pages  in  the  book,  perhaps 
no  sentences,  which  the  reader  turns  back  to  read  a 
second  time,  to  see  if  the  thought  be  true ;  here  are 
the  facts  of  history  without  the  thought  which  belongs 
to  the  facts.  It  would  be  difficult  to  find  a  history  in 
the  English  language  of  any  note,  so  entirely  desti- 
tute of  philosophy.  Accordingly,  the  work  is  dull  and 
inanimate ;  the  reading  thereof  tiresome  and  not 
profitable.  Thus  lacking  philosophy,  and  having 
more  of  the  spirit  of  chivalry  than  of  humanity,  it 
is  impossible  that  he  should  write  in  the  interest  of 
mankind  or  judge  men  and  their  deeds  by  justice, 
by  the  immutable  law  of  the  universe.  After  long 
and  patient  study  of  his  special  theme,  Mr.  Prescott 
writes  with  the  average  sense  of  mankind,  with  their 
average  of  conscience,  and  his  judgment,  the  average 
judgment  of  a  trading  town,  is  readily  accepted  by 
the  average  of  men,  and  popular  with  them ;  but  he 
writes  as  one  with  little  sympathy  for  mankind,  and 
seems  to  think  that  Spain  belonged  to  Ferdinand  and 
Isabella,  that  their  power  was  a  right  and  not  a  trust, 
and  they  not  accountable  for  the  guardianship  which 
they  exercised  over  their  subjects.  The  style  of  the 
work  is  plain,  unambitious,  and  easily  intelligible. 
The  language,  the  figures  of  speech,  the  logic,  and 
the  rhetoric  are  commonplace;  like  the  judgment  of 
the  author,  they  indicate  no  originality,  and  do  not 
bear  the  stamp  of  his  character.  There  is  a  certain 
mannerism  about  them,  but  it  is  not  the  mannerism  of 
Mr.  Prescott,  only  of  the  class  of  well-bred  men.  His 
metaphors,  which  usually  mark  the  man,  are  common- 
place and  poor ;  rarely  original  or  beautiful.     Here 


I 


PRESCOTT  219 

are  some  examples :  To  "  spread  like  wildfire ;  "  to  act 
"  like  desperate  gamblers ; "  to  run  "  like  so  many 
frighted  deer ;  "  to  extend  "  like  an  army  of  locusts ;  " 
to  be  "  like  a  garden."  He  calls  womankind  "  the 
sex ;  "  not  a  very  elegant  or  agreeable  title.  There 
is  a  slight  tendency  to  excess  in  his  use  of  epithets ; 
sometimes  he  insinuates  an  opinion  which  he  does  not 
broadly  assert,  rhetorically  understanding  the  truth. 
In  his  style  there  is  little  to  attract,  nothing  to  repel, 
nothing  even  to  offend ;  he  is  never  tawdry,  seldom 
extravagant,  never  ill-natured.  If  he  finds  an  author 
in  error,  he  takes  no  pleasure  in  pointing  out  the  mis- 
take. Everywhere  he  displays  the  marks  of  a  well- 
bred  gentleman  of  letters ;  this  is  more  than  can  be 
said  of  the  reviewer  we  have  alluded  to  before.  After 
long  study  of  this  work  we  take  leave  of  the  author 
with  an  abiding  impression  of  a  careful  scholar,  dili- 
gent and  laborious ;  an  amiable  man,  who  respects  the 
feelings  of  his  fellows,  and  would  pass  gently  over 
their  failings ;  a  courteous  and  accomplished  gentle- 
man, who  after  long  toil,  has  unexpectedly  found  that 
toil  repaid  with  money  and  with  honors,  and  wears  the 
honors  with  the  same  modesty  in  which  they  have  been 
won. 


PRESCOTT'S  CONQUEST  OF  MEXICO 

After  Mr.  Prescott  had  finished  his  History  of  the 
Reign  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella  several  important 
subjects  seemed  naturally  to  claim  his  attention;  these 
were  the  Discovery  of  America,  and  the  Reign  of 
Charles  V.  But  the  first  of  these  had  already  been 
described  by  the  graceful  pen  of  Mr.  Irving,  adorn- 
ing what  it  touches ;  the  second  had  been  treated  by 
Dr.  Robertson  in  a  work  of  great  though  declining 
celebrity,  and  rendered  attractive  by  a  pleasing  style, 
which  often  conceals  the  superficiality  of  the  author's 
research,  the  shallowness  of  his  political  philosophy, 
and  the  inhumanity  of  his  conclusions.  Few  men  would 
wish  to  enter  the  literary  career  and  run  the  race  with 
such  distinguished  rivals.  A  broader  field  yet  re- 
mained, more  interesting  to  the  philosopher  and  the 
lover  of  mankind ;  namely,  the  Conquest  and  Coloniza- 
tion of  America  by  the  Spaniards.  On  this  theme  Mr. 
Prescott  has  written  two  independent  works  of  wide 
popularity.  Of  the  first  of  those  we  now  propose  to 
speak,  only  premising  what  we  said  before  in  respect 
to  the  ofllce  and  duty  of  an  historian. 

The  new  world  was  discovered  in  the  reign  of  Fer- 
dinand and  Isabella ;  its  islands  and  continents,  though 
not  for  the  first  time,  laid  open  to  the  eye  of  civilized 
Europe.  The  greater  part  of  America  was  found  to 
be  thinly  peopled  by  a  single  race  of  men,  different  in 
many  respects  from  the  inhabitants  of  the  eastern 
hemisphere.     A  large  part  of  the  new  world  was  in- 

220 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  221 

habited  by  tribes,  not  only  not  civilized,  but  not  even 
barbarous ;  the  nations  were  eminently  savage,  though 
most  of  them  Were  far  removed  from  the  lowest  stage 
of  human  life,  still  represented  by  the  Esquimaux, 
the  New-Hollanders  and  the  Bushmen  of  South 
Africa.  The  French,  the  English,  and  the  Dutch, 
in  their  North  American  settlements,  came  in  contact 
with  the  barbarous  portion  of  the  nations,  who  had 
a  little  agriculture,  it  is  true,  but  subsisted  chiefly  on 
the  spontaneous  products  of  the  forest  and  the  flood. 
But  some  tribes  had  advanced  far  beyond  this  state, 
some  had  ceased  to  be  barbarous.  There  was  an  in- 
digenous and  original  civilization  in  America.  At- 
tempts have  often  been  made  to  trace  this  civilization 
to  the  old  world,  to  connect  it  now  with  the  Tyrians, 
now  with  the  Egyptians,  and  then  with  the  Hebrews 
or  roving  Tartars.  Sometimes  the  attempt  has  been 
guided  by  philology,  which  makes  language  the  basis 
of  comparison ;  sometimes  by  physiology,  and  scien- 
tific men  have  sought  in  the  bodies  of  the  red  Ameri- 
cans to  discover  some  trace  of  the  stock  they  sprung 
from ;  sometimes  by  theology,  which  seeks  the  aflinity 
indicated  by  kindred  forais  of  religion.  But  com- 
monly inquirers  have  started  with  the  theological  prej- 
udice that  all  men  are  descended  from  the  single 
primitive  pair  mentioned  in  the  Hebrew  myth,  and 
have  bent  philolog}^,  physiolog}^,  and  theology  to  con- 
form to  their  gratuitous  assumption.  Hitherto  these 
attempts  have  been  in  vain.  Even  the  lamented  Mr. 
Prichard,^  who  had  this  theological  prejudice  in  the 
heroic  degree, —  small  for  an  English  theologian,  in- 
deed, but  great  for  a  philosopher,  as  he  certainly  was, 
a  prejudice  which  appears  throughout  his  researches 
into  the  physical  history  of  mankind, —  fails  to  con- 


222  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

nect  the  American  civilization  with  that  of  any  other 
race.  We  therefore  take  it  for  granted,  in  the 
present  stage  of  the  inquiry,  that  it  was  original  and 
indigenous.  Geologists  inform  us  that  the  western 
continent  appears  older  than  the  eastern.  If  it  be  so, 
perhaps  the  American  aborgines  are  the  oldest  race 
now  in  existence,  and  may  look  down  on  the  bearded 
and  pale  Caucasians  as  upstarts  in  the  world.  If  this 
be  true,  the  red  man  has  not  advanced  so  rapidly  in 
civilization  as  the  white ;  this  seems  owing  to  the  in- 
ferior organization  of  the  former,  and  also  to  the  ab- 
sence of  swine,  sheep,  horses,  oxen,  and  large  animals 
capable  of  being  tamed,  which  in  the  eastern  con- 
tinent have  so  powerfully  aided  the  progress  of  civ- 
ilization. The  man  who  would  tame  the  sheep  and  the 
ox  must  tame  also  himself.  The  domestication  of  ani- 
mals, those  living  machines  of  an  earlier  age,  once 
promoted  the  progress  of  civilization  as  much  as  the 
invention  of  machinery  at  this  day.  The  camel,  the 
ship  of  the  desert,  and  the  steamboat,  the  ship  of  the 
sea,  have  each  something  to  do  in  ferrying  man  out 
of  barbarism. 

After  the  discovery  of  America,  the  Spaniard  soon 
came  in  contact  with  the  more  advanced  tribes  of  red 
men,  contended  with  and  overcame  them,  partly  in  vir- 
tue of  his  superior  development,  but  partly  also 
through  the  aboriginal  and  organic  superiority  which 
marks  the  Caucasian  race  in  all  historical  stages  of 
their  progress,  and  appears  in  every  conflict  with  any 
kindred  race.  This  indigenous  American  civilization 
had  two  centres,  or  mother-cities,  mainly  independent 
of  one  another,  if  not  entirely  so,  Mexico  and  Peru. 
The  chief  seats  thereof  were  soon  reached  by  the  Span- 
iards  and   conquered,  the  advanced  tribes  reduced  to 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  ^23 

subjection,  to  slavery  or  to  death.  The  European 
brought  there  two  things,  wholly  unheard  of  before  — 
the  doctrines  of  Christianity  and  a  sword  of  steel,  each 
thought  to  be  the  ally  of  the  other  in  the  conqueror's 
hand. 

Here  is  a  theme  more  important,  and  therefore  more 
profoundly  interesting,  than  the  Lives  of  Columbus 
and  his  followers,  or  the  Reign  of  Charles  V,  though 
both  of  those  bring  great  events  before  the  thinker's 
eye ;  —  certainly  the  biography  of  Columbus,  of 
Amerigo,  Cabot,  and  Verrazzani,  would  offer  an  at- 
tractive field  to  a  thinking  man.  A  philosophic  his- 
torian would  delight  in  a  land  newly  discovered.  Its 
geography,  botany,  and  zoology  were  all  new  to  the 
eastern  world ;  there  were  tribes  unheard  of  before, 
with  a  peculiar  physical  structure,  language,  litera- 
ture, manners,  arts,  laws,  institutions,  and  forms  of  re- 
ligion unlike  the  old.  It  were  a  noble  task  for  the 
naturalist  to  describe  this  virgin  America  as  she  ap- 
peared in  the  fifteenth  century,  when  she  first  stood  un- 
veiled before  the  European  eye. 

In  ages  before  the  historical  period  the  Caucasian 
race  had  taken  possession  of  the  fairest  portions  of 
the  ancient  world.  Now,  for  the  first  time  during 
many  ages,  on  a  grand  scale  it  encounters  another 
race.  For  the  first  time  in  human  history  the  white 
man  and  the  red  man  fairly  meet.  These  two  families, 
so  dissimilar  in  natural  character,  so  unlike  in  their 
development,  now  join  in  war,  in  wedlock,  and  at 
length  mingle  in  political  union.  Ethnographers  of 
this  day  somewhat  obscurely  maintain  that  the  min- 
gling of  tribes,  if  not  races,  is  an  essential  condition  of 
progress.  It  would  be  instructive  to  pause  over  the 
facts,  and  consider  what  influence  in  this  case  each 


224  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

race  has  had  on  the  other,  and  their  union  on  the  world. 
Never  before  in  the  historical  age  had  two  races  thus 
met,  nor  two  independent  civilizations,  with  modes  of 
religion,  so  dissimilar,  thus  come  together.  In  the 
great  wars  which  the  classic  nations  engaged  in  the 
two  parties  were  commonly  of  the  same  stock.  Even 
in  the  expeditions  of  Sesos-tris,  of  Xerxes,  and  of 
Alexander,  it  was  Caucasian  that  met  Caucasian. 
The  same  is  true,  perhaps  in  its  full  extent,  of  the 
expeditions  of  Hannibal  and  of  the  Moors.  In  all 
the  wars  from  that  of  Troy  to  the  Cnisades,  the  heroes 
on  both  sides  were  of  the  same  stock.  The  nations 
that  we  meet  in  history,  from  Thule  to  the  "  fabulous 
Hjdaspes,"  all  are  Caucasians  —  differing  indeed  in 
development  and  specific  character,  but  ahke  in  their 
great,  general  peculiarities.  Other  races  appear  only 
in  the  background  of  history,  among  the  classic,  the 
Semitic,  or  the  East-Indian  nations ;  but  seldom  even 
there,  and  not  as  actors  in  the  great  drama  of  human 
civilization. 

Tlie  Spanish  colonies  afford  the  best  known  example 
of  the  mingling  of  men  of  different  races.  The 
Anglo-Saxon  is  eminently  Caucasian ;  he  also  met  the 
red  men.  But  the  Saxon,  though  like  other  conquer- 
ors forgetting  his  dignity  in  loose  armors,  will  not 
mix  his  proud  blood  in  stable  wedlock  with  another 
race.  There  seems  a  national  antipathy  to  such 
unions  with  the  black,  or  even  the  red,  or  yellow  races 
of  men  —  an  antipathy  almost  peculiar  to  this  re- 
markable tribe,  the  exterminator  of  other  races.  In 
New  England  more  pains  were  taken  than  elsewhere 
in  America  to  spare,  to  civilize,  and  to  convert  the 
sons  of  the  wilderness ;  but  yet  here  the  distinction  of 
race  was  always  sharply  observed.     Even  community 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  225 

of  religion  and  liturgical  rites,  elsewhere  so  powerful 
a  bond  of  union,  was  unable  to  soften  the  English- 
man's repugnance  to  the  Indian.  The  Puritan  hoped 
to  meet  the  Pequods  in  heaven,  but  wished  to  keep 
apart  from  them  on  earth,  nay,  to  exterminate  them 
from  the  land.  Besides,  the  English  met  with  no 
civilized  tribe  in  America,  and  for  them  to  unite  in 
wedlock  with  such  children  of  the  forest  as  they  found 
in  North  America  would  have  been  contrary  not  only 
to  the  Anglo-Saxon  prejudice  of  race,  but  to  the  gen- 
eral usage  of  the  world  —  a  usage  to  which  even  the 
French  in  Canada  afford  but  a  trifling  exception.  The 
Spaniards  had  less  of  this  exclusiveness  of  race,  per- 
haps none  at  all.  They  met  with  civilized  tribes  of 
red  men,  met  and  mingled  in  honorable  and  permanent 
connection.  In  Peru  and  Mexico,  at  this  day,  there 
are  few  men  of  pure  Spanish  blood. 

All  the  historical  forms  of  religion  which  have  pre- 
vailed in  Europe,  and  the  parts  of  Asia  inhabited  by 
the  Caucasians,  seem  to  have  sprung  from  a  common 
stock.  Perhaps  this  is  not  true,  but  at  least  their  re- 
semblances may  often  be  accounted  for  by  reference 
to  some  actual  union,  to  their  historical  genealogy,  not 
wholly  by  reference  to  human  nature ;  their  agreement 
is  specific,  not  merely  generic.  But  the  foims  of  re- 
ligion that  prevailed  in  America  seem  to  have  no  his- 
torical element  in  common  with  those  of  the  eastern 
world.  When  they  agree,  as  they  often  do,  and  in 
their  most  important  features,  the  agreement  is  gen- 
eric, referable  to  the  identity  of  human  nature  acting 
under  similar  conditions ;  it  is  not  specific,  or  to  be  ex- 
plained by  reference  to  history,  to  community  of  tra- 
dition.    It  is  the  same  human  nature  which  appears 

in    all    races,    and    accordingly    many,    especially    re- 
11—15 


226  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ligious,  institutions  have  a  marked  likeness  all  over 
the  world;  but  the  individual  peculiarity  of  each  race 
appears  also  in  those  institutions.  The  civilization  of 
the  Caucasian  tribes  in  the  eastern  world,  powerfully 
affected  by  their  religious  institutions,  seems  to  have 
ben  propagated  by  offsets  and  cuttings  from  some 
primeval  tree,  and  only  modified  by  circumstances  and 
degrees  of  development ;  so  there  is  an  historical  ele- 
ment common  to  all  those  nations.  It  appears  in  their 
manners,  dress,  and  military  weapons ;  in  their  agri- 
culture, from  the  east  to  the  west,  where  the  same 
staple  articles  of  culture  appear,  and  the  same  animals 
—  the  cereal  grasses,  the  sheep,  the  goat,  the  swine, 
the  horse,  and  the  ox ;  in  their  arts,  useful  and  beauti- 
ful; in  their  politics,  their  morals,  their  forms  of  re- 
ligion ;  in  their  literature,  and  even  in  the  structure  of 
their  language  itself,  so  deep-rooted  is  the  idiosyn- 
crasy of  race.  In  America,  to  judge  from  the  present 
state  of  ethnographic  investigation,  it  seems  that  an- 
other seed,  independent  and  likewise  aboriginal,  got 
planted,  came  up,  grew,  and  bore  fruit  after  its  kind. 
This  also  was  propagated  by  cuttings  and  offsets,  so 
to  say ;  its  descendants  had  spread  from  the  land  of 
the  Esquimaux  to  Patagonia.  Here,  as  in  the  other 
hemisphere,  the  race  became  specifically  modified  by 
external  circumstances,  and  the  degree  of  development. 
Still  there  is  a  generic  element  common  to  all  the  tribes 
of  America,  running  through  their  civilization,  and 
apparent  in  their  institutions.  The  idiosyncracy  of 
race  appears  here  also,  conspicuous  and  powerful  as 
there. 

This  diversity  of  race  and  the  analogous  difference 
between  the  two  civilizations,  brought  into  such  close 
connection,  renders  the  history  of  the  Spanish  settle- 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  22T 

ments  in  America  exceedingly  interesting  to  a  philo- 
sophical inquirer ;  the  English  colonies  are  interesting 
on  account  of  the  ideas  they  brought  hither  and  de- 
veloped, and  the  influence  those  ideas  have  had  on  the 
world ;  the  Spanish  settlements  are  chiefly  interesting 
on  account  of  the  facts  they  bring  to  light.  Under 
these  circumstances  it  becomes  the  huty  of  the  histo- 
rian, who  will  write  a  book  worthy  of  his  theme,  to  note 
the  eff^ect  of  this  mingling  of  races  and  of  civilizations ; 
he  is  not  merely  to  tell  who  was  killed,  and  who 
wounded,  on  which  side  of  the  river  each  one  fought, 
and  how  deep  the  water  was  between  them,  or  how 
bloody  it  ran ;  he  is  to  describe  the  civilization  of  the 
nations,  giving,  however  briefly,  all  the  important  fea- 
tures thereof,  and  then  show  the  eff^ect  of  the  meeting 
of  the  two. 

More  than  three  centuries  have  passed  by  since  the 
Mexican  conquest  was  complete.  During  that  time 
great  revolutions  have  taken  place  in  the  world, — 
theological,  political,  and  social.  A  great  progress 
has  been  made  in  the  arts,  in  science,  in  morals  and 
religion, —  in  the  subjective  development  thereof  as 
piety,  the  objective  application  to  life  in  the  form  of 
practical  morality.  But  the  Spanish-Americans  have 
but  a  small  share  in  that  progress ;  they  seem  to  have 
done  nothing  to  promote  it.  They  have  not  kept  pace 
with  the  Anglo-American  colonies,  not  even  with  the 
French.  It  is  pretty  clear  that  the  population  of 
Spanish  North  America  —  continental  and  insular  — 
is  less  numerous  now  than  when  Columbus  first  crossed 
the  sea.  The  condition  of  the  Americans  in  many  re- 
spects is  improved.  Still  it  may  be  reasonably 
doubted  if  the  population  of  Mexico  is  happier  to-day 
than  four  hundred  years  ago.     What  is  the  cause  of 


228  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

this ;  have  the  two  races  been  weakened  by  their  union, 
were  the  Mexicans  incapable  of  further  advance,  or 
were  the  Spaniards  unable  to  aid  them?  The 
Europeans  gave  the  Indian  most  valuable  material 
helps  to  civilization  —  cattle,  swine,  sheep,  goats,  asses, 
horses,  oxen,  the  cereal  grasses  of  the  East,  iron  and 
gunpowder;  ideal  helps  also  in  the  doctrines  of 
Christianity  ;  —  the  machinery  of  the  old  world.  In 
another  work,  Mr.  Prescott  declares  the  Moorish  civili- 
zation incapable  of  continuing,  as  it  had  in  its  bosom 
the  causes  of  its  ruin.  Is  the  same  thing  true  of  the 
Spanish  civilization?  Surely  it  cannot  stand  before 
the  slow,  strong,  steady  wave  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  tide, 
which  seems  destined  ere  long  to  sweep  it  off,  or  hide 
it  in  its  own  ample  bosom.  The  consequence  is  always 
in  the  cause,  there  but  hidden.  The  historian  of  the 
conquest  of  Mexico,  writing  so  long  after  the  events 
he  chronicles,  while  those  consequences  are  patent  to 
all  the  world,  might  describe  to  us  the  cause ;  nay,  the 
history  is  not  adequately  written  until  this  is  done. 
Without  this,  a  work  is  history  without  its  meaning, 
without  philosophy.  We  must  complain  of  Mr.  Pres- 
cott's  work,  in  general,  that  he  has  omitted  this  its 
most  important  part.  True,  he  was  only  writing  of 
the  conquest  of  the  country  and  the  immediate  coloni- 
zation ;  but  this  is  not  adequately  described  until  the 
other  work  is  done. 

Not  only  has  Mr.  Prescott  an  attractive  theme  — 
obvious  facts  and  glittering  deeds,  to  attract  all  men 
and  satisfy  the  superficial,  and  larger,  more  general 
facts  of  a  profound  significance,  to  pause  upon  and 
explain ;  but  the  materials  for  his  work  are  abundant. 
There  are  the  narratives  of  men  personally  engaged  in 
the  expeditions  they  write  of,  men   like  Bernal  Diaz 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  229 

and  Gomara ;  official  documents  like  the  letters  of 
Cortes ;  early  histories,  as  that  of  Solis ;  works  on  the 
antiquities  of  Mexico,  like  that  of  Clavigero,  and  the 
magnificent  volumes  published  by  Lord  Kingsborough. 
Then  there  are  works  written  by  men  themselves 
descended  from  the  Mexicans.  In  addition  to  printed 
volumes,  Mr.  Prescott  has  richly  supplied  himself  with 
such  manuscript  treasures  of  Spanish  history  as  few 
American  eyes  ever  behold.  He  has  at  his  command 
about  eight  thousand  folio  pages  of  the  work  of  Las 
Casas,  Ixtlilxochitl,  Toribio,  Camarge,  Oviedo,  and 
others.  Public  and  private  collections  abroad  have 
been  opened  to  him  with  just  and  scholarlike  liberality. 

If  we  divide  Mr.  Prescott's  work  according  to  its 
substance,  it  consists  of  three  parts :  —  the  first  relates 
to  Mexico,  its  inhabitants  and  their  civilization ;  the 
second  to  the  conquest  of  INIexico ;  and  the  third  to 
the  subsequent  career  of  Cortes.  In  respect  of  its 
form,  the  volumes  are  divided  into  seven  books,  treat- 
ing respectively  of  the  Axtec  civilization,  of  the  dis- 
covery of  Mexico,  the  march  thither,  the  residence 
there,  the  expulsion  thence,  the  siege  and  surrender 
of  the  city,  and  the  subsequent  career  of  Cortes.  A 
valuable  appendix  is  added,  and  a  copious  index,  the 
latter  quite  too  uncommon  in  American  books. 

This  history  has  been  so  much  admired,  so  widely  cir- 
culated in  America  and  Europe,  and  so  abundantly 
read,  that,  as  in  the  former  article,  we  shall  take  it  for 
granted  that  our  readers  are  familiar  with  the  work, 
and  spare  them  our  analysis  thereof.  We  shall  also 
presuppose  that  the  well-informed  reader  is  sufficiently 
familiar  with  the  writings  of  Diaz  and  Solis,  with  the 
printed  works  of  Las  Casas,  with  Clavigero,  Herrera, 
and    the    original    accounts    published    at    Madrid,    a 


230  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

hundred  years  ago,  in  the  collection  of  "  Historiadores 
primitivos." 

We  now  propose  to  examine  this  history  of  the  con- 
quest of  Mexico  somewhat  in  detail,  and  to  say  a  word 
of  each  of  the  three  grand  divisions  of  the  subject. 
We  will  speak  first  of  the  civilization  of  the  Aztecs. 
Mr.  Prescott's  account  of  the  geography  of  Mexico, 
with  his  description  of  the  country,  is  attractive  and 
graphic.  It  seems  to  be  sufficient;  we  only  regret  the 
absence  of  a  more  extended  map.  With  only  the  or- 
dinary maps  the  reader  is  often  puzzled  in  trying  to 
make  out  the  exact  position  of  a  place,  and  accord- 
ingly he  cannot  always  understand  the  account  of  a 
batttle  or  the  description  of  a  march.  The  two  small 
maps  are  of  great  service,  and  were  prepared  with 
much  care,  but  are  not  adequate  to  render  all  parts 
of  the  text  intelligible ;  thus  Itztapalapan  is  said  to 
stand  "  on  a  narrow  tongue  of  land  which  divides  the 
waters  of  the  great  salt  lake  from  those  of  the  fresh," 
while  on  the  map  no  such  narrow  tongue  exists,  and 
the  reader  must  seek  it  in  Clavigero  or  elsewhere. 
But  this  is  a  trifle. 

In  Mexico  Mr.  Prescott  finds  four  important  tribes 
or  "  races."  The  most  conspicuous  of  these  are  the 
Toltecs,  who  came  from  the  North  before  the  end  of 
the  seventh  century,  and  in  the  eleventh  century  "  dis- 
appeared from  the  land  as  silently  and  mysteriously 
as  they  had  entered  it ;  "  the  Chichemecs,  a  numerous 
and  rude  tribe  who  came  from  the  North-west  in  the 
twelfth  century,  and  were  soon  "  followed  by  other 
races  of  higher  civilization,  perhaps  of  the  same  family 
with  the  Toltecs ;  "  the  most  noted  of  these  tribes  were 
the  Aztecs  or  Mexicans,  and  the  Acolhuans  or  Tezcu- 
cans.     The  civilization  of  the  Toltecs  was  communi- 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  231 

cated  to  the  Tezcucans,  and  by  them  to  the  Chiche- 
mecs. 

Of  these  four  tribes  —  Toltecs,  Chichemecs,  Tezcu- 
cans, and  Aztecs  —  the  latter  have  become  the  most 
celebrated.  They  are  the  ^Mexicans,  and  by  that  name 
we  shall  designate  them  in  what  follows.  After  en- 
countering various  fortunes  in  the  land,  they  came  to 
the  valley  of  Mexico  in  the  year  1325,  A.D.,  according 
to  Mr.  Prescott,  where  they  subsequently  built  Ten- 
ochtitlan,  the  city  of  Mexico.  The  Mexicans  were  a 
warlike  people,  and  in  less  than  two  centuries  their 
empire  extended  from  shore  to  shore.  This  rapid  en- 
largement of  their  power  proves  the  martial  vigor  of 
the  tribe,  and  their  skill  in  fonning  political  organi- 
zations, though  Mr.  Prescott  seems  to  doubt  their 
political  ability.  But  as  the  Mexican  empire  was 
composed  of  several  nations  recently  conquered  and 
united  almost  entirely  by  external  force,  it  is  plain  it 
contained  heterogeneous  elements  which  might  easily 
be  separated.  Like  the  old  Roman  and  all  other  states 
thus  formed,  it  was  a  piece  of  carpentry,  artificially 
held  together  by  outward  circumstances,  not  a  regular 
growth,  where  the  branch  grows  out  of  the  bole,  that 
out  of  the  root,  and  all  are  united  by  a  central  prin- 
ciple and  partake  of  a  common  origin  and  history. 

Mr.  Prescott  devotes  four  chapters  to  the  civilization 
of  Mexico,  and  one  to  Tezcuco.  His  materials  are 
derived  chiefly  from  Torquemada,  Clavigero,  Sahagun, 
Gama,  the  works  which  have  appeared  in  France  and 
England  on  the  antiquities  of  Mexico,  the  writings 
of  Boturini  and  Ixtlilxochitl.  Of  these  authors 
Clavigero  is  the  best  known  to  general  readers.  Not- 
withstanding the  advantage  which  Mr.  Prescott  has 
in   coming   sixty   years   after  the   work   of   Clavigero 


S32  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

was  published,  we  must  confess  that  on  the  whole  the 
earlier  writer  has  given  the  more  satisfactory  account 
of  the  matter.  It  is  true,  Clavigero  had  space  to  be 
minute  and  curious  in  particulars, —  for  nearly  two 
of  his  four  quarto  volumes  are  devoted  to  the  subject, 
but  his  general  arrangement  is  better,  though  by  no 
means  perfect  or  philosophical, —  following  an  inward 
principle, —  and  his  account  of  the  Mexican  institu- 
tions is  on  the  whole  more  distinct  as  well  as  more  com- 
plete. Yet  in  some  details  Mr.  Prescott  surpasses  his 
predecessor. 

Mr.  Prescott  gives  an  account,  sufficiently  lucid,  of 
what  may  be  called  the  Constitution  of  Mexico;  he 
speaks  intelligently  of  the  royal  power,  which  was  both 
legislative  and  executive.  He  gives  a  good  descrip- 
tion of  the  judicial  power,  certainly  a  very  remarka- 
ble institution  for  such  a  nation,  and  in  many  respects 
a  very  wise  one.  But  his  account  of  the  nobles,  of 
their  power  and  position,  is  meagre  and  unsatisfac- 
tory. He  does  not  tell  us  how  the  distinction  of  no- 
bility was  obtained. 

What  he  says  of  the  penal  laws  is  still  less  satis- 
factory, or  complete.  The  only  punishments  he  men- 
tions are  death,  slavery,  reduction  of  rank,  and  confis- 
cation of  property.  Clavigero  adds  confinement  in 
prison  and  banishment  from  the  country.  Prisons  as 
houses  of  punishment  generally  indicate  a  higher  civil- 
ization than  the  penalty  of  death,  or  exile. 

Clavigero  has  given  the  fuller  and  more  satisfactory 
account  of  the  Mexican  system  of  slavery.  He  men- 
tions also  one  important  provision  of  the  penal  law 
omitted  by  IMr.  Prescott,  that  kidnapping  was  pun- 
ished with  death. 

Mr.  Prescott's  account  of  the  manner  of  collecting 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  S33 

the  revenue  Is  full  and  clear.  The  same  must  be  said 
of  his  account  of  the  military  establishment  of  Mex- 
ico. Still  the  reader  would  be  glad  to  know  whether 
the  soldiers  were  volunteers  or  conscripts,  how  they 
were  fed,  and,  when  succussful  in  war,  what  share  of 
the  booty  belonged  to  them.  Clavigero  mentions  a 
significant  fact,  that  there  were  three  military  orders, 
called  Princes,  Eagles,  and  Tigers  (Achautin,  Quauh- 
tin,  and  Ocelo).  Since  the  two  last  are  titles  of  hon- 
our, as  well  as  the  first,  they  furnish  an  important 
monument  of  the  ferocity  of  the  nation. 

The  civilization  of  the  Mexicans  has  been  sometimes 
exalted  above  its  merit ;  still  it  is  plain  they  had  at- 
tained a  pretty  high  degree  of  culture.  Yet  it  dif- 
fered in  many  respects  from  that  of  the  eastern  na- 
tions :  it  was  a  civilization  without  the  cereal  grasses ; 
without  wine,  milk  or  honey ;  without  swine,  sheep,  or 
goats ;  without  the  horse  or  the  ass,  or  any  beast  of 
burthen ;  civilization  without  iron.  Mexico  seems  to 
have  been  the  centre  of  refinement  for  all  North  Amer- 
ica. Agriculture,  one  of  the  earliest  arts,  seems  to 
have  traveled  northward ;  the  three  great  staples 
thereof  among  the  natives  of  North  America  in  the 
temperate  zone  —  maize,  beans,  and  various  species  of 
the  pumpkin  or  squash  —  had  j  ourneyed  from  the 
Gulf  of  Mexico  to  the  Bay  of  Fundy,  and  extended  in- 
land to  the  Rocky  Mountains,  covering  a  great  extent 
of  country  where  they  were  not  indigenous,  and  could 
not  exist  but  for  the  care  of  man. 

In  Mexico,  the  fundamental  law  or  constitution  was 
fixed  and  well  understood.  The  monarchy  was  elec- 
tive ;  though,  by  law  or  custom,  the  choice  must  be 
made  from  a  certain  family,  still  the  chief  was  chosen 
for    his    personal    qualities.     Montezuma    was    distin- 


284  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

guished  as  a  soldier  and  a  priest  —  compatible  titles 
in  many  a  land  not  otherwise  very  barbarous  —  before 
he  was  elected  king.  Throughout  North  America 
there  seems  to  have  been  a  general  custom  of  choosing 
the  ruler  among  the  nephews  rather  than  among  the 
sons  of  the  former  chief. 

The  judicial  power  was  carefully  separated  from  the 
executive.  The  judges  were  appointed  by  the  king  or 
chosen  by  the  people,  and  held  their  office  for  life  or 
during  good  behavior.  The  laws  seem  to  have  been 
well  administered.  Property  was  so  secure  that  bolts 
and  bars  were  not  needed.  Life,  liberty,  and  the 
honor  of  women  were  carefully  guarded,  and  seem  to 
have  been  more  secure  than  in  Scotland  at  the  same 
time.  Lands  were  held  in  severalty  and  by  a  certain 
tenure.  Almost  all  men  held  real  estate  in  their  own 
right.  In  the  most  densely  peopled  regions  there  was 
little  land  not  improved ;  far  less  than  at  the  present 
day,  as  we  judge.  The  law  of  descent  was  fixed,  and 
well  understood.  The  right  of  testament  was  uni- 
versal, i 

Historians  tell  us  that  the  laws  were  written,  and 
published  to  the  people.  We  think  they  exaggerate 
the  extent  of  a  written  law,  and  the  power  of  the  Mex- 
icans to  record  laws  with  their  imperfect  mode  of  writ- 
ing. Perhaps  Mr.  Prescott  with  others  has  fallen 
into  a  slight  error  in  this  particular,  though  we  do 
not  say  this  with  much  confidence. 

Slavery  prevailed  in  a  mild  form.  Men  became 
slaves  by  judicial  sentence,  as  a  punishment  for  crime, 
by  selling  themselves,  or  from  being  sold  by  their  par- 
ents. The  slave  could  hold  property,  real  or  personal, 
and  devise  it  to  whom  he  would ;  he  could  own  other 
slaves.     This   was   not   a   privilege   which   the   master 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  235 

might  revoke,  but  a  right  at  common  law.  The  slave's 
life  was,  theoretically,  sacred  as  the  free  man's.  His 
children  were  all  free.  Nobility  was  hereditary,  while 
slavery  was  merely  a  personal  affair,  and  did  not  at- 
taint the  blood.  Indeed,  the  slave  was  only  a  vassal, 
bound  to  render  certain  services  to  his  feudal  lord. 
This  fact  shows  that  the  nation  had  emerged  from  that 
state  where  man  is  so  lazy  that  only  the  slave  can  be 
made  to  endure  continuous  toil,  and  where  Slavery  is 
the  chief  handmaid  of  Industry. 

The  penal  laws  were  severe ;  capital  offences  were 
numerous.  Theft  was  punished  with  death,  as  it  was 
until  lately  in  England,  if  the  property  stolen  exceeded 
five  shillings  in  value.  Imprisonment,  fine,  exile,  and 
social  degradation  were  legal  punishments  for  certain 
crimes.  The  revenues  of  the  nation  were  collected  in 
a  regular  and  constant  form.  As  in  most  despotic 
countries,  the  taxes  were  enormous ;  but  there  seems  no 
reason  for  supposing  that  they  were  so  excessive  as 
they  have  been  for  many  years  in  the  kingdom  of 
Naples ;  perhaps  they  were  not  proportionately  so 
great  as  in  England  at  this  day.  Some  of  the  nobles 
were  exempt  from  taxation,  but  we  know  not  whether 
this  exemption  was  the  reward  of  some  extraordinary 
service,  or,  as  in  France  before  the  Revolution,  came 
purely  from  the  selfishness  of  that  class  who  had  the 
power  to  withdraw  their  necks  from  the  common  yoke. 

War  was  conducted  in  a  systematic  manner ;  regu- 
larly declared  and  commenced  in  a  formal  style.  The 
arts  of  diplomacy  were  well  known,  and  the  rights  of 
ambassadors  respected.  The  military  code  was  min- 
ute in  its  provisions.  The  arms  of  the  Mexicans  were 
well  made  and  destructive.  They  used  shields  of 
wood,  and  body  armour  of  quilted  cotton.     They  had 


236  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  "  - 

embattled  fortifications  of  stone,  well  situated  and  con- 
structed with  skill.  There  were  military  hospitals  for 
the  sick  and  wounded  soldier  —  institutions  unknown 
to  the  Eastern  world  till  long  after  the  time  of  Christ ; 
hospitals  better  than  the  Spanish,  and  supplied  with 
surgeons  more  faithful. 

Their  cities  were  numerous  and  large,  supplied  with 
water  by  aqueducts.  There  were  many  towns  contain- 
ing thirty  thousand  inhabitants ;  the  capital  contained 
at  least  three  hundred  thousand.  In  his  second  official 
letter,  Cortes  says  that  Tlascala  was  larger  and  much 
stronger  than  Granada  when  taken  from  the  Moors ; 
that  it  had  more  fine  houses,  and  was  better  supplied 
with  provisions.  Thirty  thousand  persons  were  daily 
in  its  markets,  to  buy  and  sell.  He  says  the  exterior 
aspect  of  Cholula  is  more  beautiful  than  any  town  in 
Spain.  From  a  single  temple  (Mezquita)  he  counted 
four  hundred  other  temples  with  towers.  Houses  were 
built  of  wood,  of  sun-dried  bricks,  and  of  stone.  While 
in  Spain  labor  was  a  disgrace,  in  Mexico  it  was  held 
in  honor.  The  calling  of  a  merchant  was  honorable, 
and  he  sometimes  rose  to  distinction  in  the  state,  a  very 
remarkable  circumstance  in  a  nation  so  warlike. 
Trading  in  slaves  seems  to  have  been  as  respectable 
among  the  Catos  of  Mexico  as  of  RomiC.  Agriculture 
was  held  in  high  and  deserved  esteem.  The  harder 
work  in  the  fields  was  performed  by  the  men ;  only  the 
light  work  fell  to  the  lot  of  women.  Great  pains  were 
taken  with  the  cultivation  of  flowers,  ornamental  gar- 
dening was  better  understood  in  INIexico  than  in  Eu- 
rope. In  some  places  the  land  was  artificially  watered, 
as  among  the  Moors  in  Spain.  There  were  floating 
gardens  on  the  lake  of  Mexico.  In  the  large  cities 
there  were  public  gardens  of  great  extent  and  beauty. 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  237 

Yet,  though  blessed  with  maize  and  potatoes,  the  Mex- 
icans lacked  the  valuable  staples  of  Eastern  agricul- 
ture —  the  more  useful  grains,  the  vine,  and  the  olive ; 
they  had  no  aid  from  the  ox  or  the  horse,  not  even  from 
the  humbler  servant  of  the  plough,  the  ass. 

The  mechanics  wrought  with  adroitness  and  good 
taste,  in  wood,  in  stone,  and  in  feather-work.  Their 
earthern  ware,  says  Cortes,  was  equal  to  the  best  in 
Spain.  Cotton  was  manufactured  and  d3^ed  with  taste 
and  skill.  Gold  and  silver  were  abundant,  and 
wrought  with  a  dexterity  which  rivalled  the  best  works 
of  Venice  and  Seville,  astonishing  the  artists  of  Eu- 
rope. They  used  also  copper,  lead,  and  tin.  It  has 
been  said  —  we  doubt  if  correctly  —  that  they  did  not 
know  the  power  of  fire  to  render  metals  more  pliant 
under  the  hammer.  Iron  was  unknown,  in  its  place 
their  cutting  instruments  were  made  of  obsidian  (itzli), 
a  stone  which  takes  a  keen  edge,  though  it  is  easily 
blunted.  For  money  they  used  gold-dust,  bits  of  tin, 
and  bags  of  cacao. 

The  public  roads  excited  the  admiration  of  the 
Spaniards,  and  were  probably  better  than  they  left  at 
home.  Runners  went  with  such  speed  that  despatches 
were  carried  one  or  two  hundred  miles  in  a  day. 
Buildings  were  erected  along  the  road  side  for  their 
accommodation.  Indeed,  couriers  went  with  such 
rapidity  that  fish  were  caught  in  the  Gulf  of  Mexico, 
and  in  twenty-four  hours  were  two  hundred  miles  off, 
in  the  kitchen  of  Montezuma. 

There  were  botanic  gardens  in  several  IMexican  cit- 
ies, where  the  plants  were  scientifically  arranged.  Cor- 
tes mentions  one  two  leagues  in  circumference;  it  con- 
tained an  aviary,  for  Mexico  is  the  country  of  birds, 
as  Africa  of  beasts,  and  basins  stocked  with  numerous 


238  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

varieties  of  fish.  At  that  time  such  gardens  were  un- 
known in  Europe. 

The  Mexicans  had  attained  a  considerable  pro- 
ficiency in  science.  They  had  a  pecuhar  system  of 
notation,  counting  by  scores  and  not  by  tens, —  first 
they  took  the  five  digits  of  one  hand,  then  of  the  next, 
and  in  Hke  manner  the  ten  digits  of  the  feet.  They 
had  made  a  measurement  of  the  year  more  exact  than 
that  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans.  Their  week  con- 
sisted of  five  days ;  four  weeks,  or  twenty  days,  made 
a  month.  There  were  eighteen  months  in  the  year, 
and  then  five  days  were  intercalated  that  belonged  to 
no  month.  Thus  their  common  civil  year  consisted  of 
three  hundred  and  sixty-five  days.  But  in  every  one 
hundred  and  four  years,  it  is  said,  they  intercalated 
twenty-five  days  which  belonged  to  no  year.  Thus 
their  calendar  was  exceedingly  exact,  and  in  many 
years  there  would  be  no  important  difference  between 
actual  and  calculated  time.  Their  day  was  divided 
into  sixteen  hours ;  they  had  sundials  for  time-pieces ; 
they  understood  the  causes  of  an  eclipse,  and  knew  the 
periods  of  the  solstices  and  the  equinoxes. 

Women  shared  in  social  festivities  with  the  men. 
Polygamy  was  allowed,  as  throughout  all  North  Amer- 
ica, and  as  with  th6  Hebrews  before  Christ ;  wealthy 
men,  and  especially  kings,  had  many  wives ;  yet  the 
custom  seems  limited  to  such,  as  indeed  it  must  have 
been  everywhere. 

The  languages  of  the  various  nations  of  Mexico 
were  remarkable  for  that  peculiarity  called  agglutina- 
tion by  philologists,  which  characterizes  all  the  dialects 
of  America,  with  perhaps,  but  a  single  exception,  and 
forms  the  linguistic  distinction  of  the  American  race. 
Their  language  was  copious,  regular  and  comprehen- 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  239 

sive.  The  Mexicans  had  a  rude  mode  of  writing,  by 
pictures  and  symbols,  which  enabled  them  to  record 
events,  to  transmit  and  preserve  information.  By 
means  of  this  help  they  recorded  their  laws,  their  ju- 
dicial transactions,  and  wrote  their  civil  history.  They 
wrote  poetry  in  the  same  manner.  We  would  speak 
with  becoming  diffidence  in  this  matter,  which  we  cer- 
tainly have  not  been  able  to  investigate  to  our  own  sat- 
isfaction, and  modestly  express  our  fear  that  the  art 
of  writing  among  the  IMexicans  has  been  a  good  deal 
overrated.  We  doubt  that  an  ordinary  poem  could  be 
recorded  in  Mexican  characters.  Still,  this  art  of 
writing  seems  to  have  been  more  perfect  than  the 
Egyptian  in  the  time  of  the  pyramids,  as  indeed  their 
language  was  more  copious  and  better  developed, 
though  greatly  inferior  to  that  of  the  Cliinese. 

There  were  schools  for  the  education  of  the  children. 
Elderly  women,  serving  also  as  priestesses,  took  charge 
of  the  girls ;  the  priests  instructed  the  boys.  The 
former  learned  various  feminine  employments,  were 
taught  to  be  modest,  and  to  pay  "  entire  obedience  and 
respect  to  their  husbands."  Boys  were  taught  to  work 
and  to  fight ;  they  were  instructed  in  the  art  of  writ- 
ing ;  they  learned  the  traditionary  lore  of  their  coun- 
try, and  studied  such  sciences  as  the  Mexican  knew; 
they  learned  the  principles  of  government,  and  were 
taught  to  hate  vice  and  love  virtue  —  to  practice  the 
duties  of  natural  religion.  To  this,  of  course,  was 
added  an  acquaintance  with  the  national  mythology 
and  the  rites  of  the  popular  worship.  This  education 
was  no  doubt  rude,  and  limited  to  a  comparatively 
small  portion  of  the  people.  There  was  a  general 
Board  of  Education,  called  the  Council  of  Music.  All 
this,  we  suspect,  is  a  good  deal  more  complete  on  paper 


240  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

than  it  was  in  fact ;  but  Diaz  informs  us  that  Monte- 
zuma intended  to  keep  some  of  the  Spandiards,  whom 
he  hoped  to  conquer,  for  schoolmasters,  and  employ 
them  in  teaching  the  people. 

In  their  religion  the  Mexicans  were  polytheists.  It 
is  not  easy  to  get  at  the  facts  respecting  this  matter, 
for  the  authors  we  depend  upon  seem  unconsciously  to 
have  lent  a  coloring  to  what  they  describe,  and  much  of 
the  Christian  tradition  or  doctrine  has  got  mingled 
with  the  opinions  of  the  natives.  But  it  is  said  that 
they  believed  in  one  supreme  Creator ;  they  addressed 
him  as  "  the  God  by  whom  we  live ;"  "  invisible,  in- 
corporeal, one  God,  of  perfect  perfection  and  purity ;" 
"  under  whose  wing  we  find  repose  and  a  sure  defence." 
There  were  other  gods  beside  him ;  the  most  popular 
was  their  God  of  War,  for  the  Mexicans  were  a 
ferocious  people,  and  this  peculiarity  appears  also  in 
their  mode  of  religion.  In  common  with  almost  every 
nation  of  the  earth,  and  perhaps  with  all,  they  believed 
in  the  immortality  of  the  soul  and  the  doctrine  of  fu- 
ture retribution.  In  the  Mexican  heaven  there  were 
two  degrees  of  happiness,  of  which  the  warrior  had 
the  higher.  The  Roman  poet  had  got  beyond  this. 
There  were  three  degrees  of  punishment  in  hell. 
"  Eternal  damnation,"  it  has  been  said,  "  is  not  learned 
by  the  mere  light  of  nature,  but  is  one  of  the  truths 
of  revelation ;"  so  we  suppose  the  Mexicans  were  in- 
debted to  their  Spanish  conquerors  for  this  article  of 
the  creed.  The  priests  were  a  distinct  class,  numerous 
and  respected,  and,  as  in  nearly  all  countries,  the  best 
educated  class.  They  served  God  with  an  abundance 
of  forms,  rites,  ceremonies,  fasts,  and  mortifications 
of  the  flesh, —  according  to  Mr.  Prescott's  quotation, 
"  In  hope  to  merit  heaven  by  making  earth  a  hell." 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  241 

However,  in  this  respect  their  conquerors  taught  them 
many  devices  which  the  simple  Mexicans  did  not  know 
before.  The  Mexicans  do  not  appear  to  have  practiced 
any  ritual  mutilation  of  the  body  as  the  Hebrews  and 
Mahometans  do  to  this  day.  The  priesthood  was 
not  hereditar}^,  or  even  heritable,  as  it  seems.  It  did 
not  necessarily  last  for  life.  There  was  only  a  mova- 
ble priesthood,  not  a  caste  perpetuating  its  traditions 
and  its  rites  in  a  single  family  from  age  to  age.  The 
chief  priest  was  elected,  though  it  does  not  appear  by 
whom.  Some  elderly  women  served  as  priestesses.  The 
Mexicans  had  some  rites  which  strangely  resembled 
the  Christian :  —  they  baptized  their  children  by  sprin- 
kling ;  the  priests  heard  confession  and  gave  absolu- 
tion from  sin,  and,  what  is  remarkable,  this  absolu- 
tion not  only  was  thought  to  save  a  man  from  future 
torment,  but  actually  held  good  and  gave  deliverance 
in  a  court  of  justice  on  earth.  There  was  a  Mexican 
goddess,  Cioacoatl  was  her  name,  whe  seems  closely  re- 
lated to  mother  Eve ;  she  was  *'  the  first  goddess  who 
brought  forth ;"  she  "  bequeathed  the  sufferings  of 
childbirth  to  women ;"  and  by  her  "  sin  came  into 
the  world."  There  was  also  a  Mexican  Noah,  Coxcox, 
who  survived  a  deluge,  and  has  often  been  taken  for 
the  mythical  patriarch  of  the  Hebrew  legend. 

There  is  much  that  is  revolting  in  the  worship  of 
savage  nations  ;  some  of  the  disgusting  features  thereof 
remain  long  after  civilization  has  swept  away  civil  and 
social  monstrosities.  The  most  hideous  thing  con- 
nected with  the  Mexican  worship  was  the  sacrifice  of 
human  beings.  Human  sacrifices  have  been  common 
with  all  nations  at  certain  stages  of  their  development. 
The   custom   was   well  known   among  the  Greeks   and 

Romans ;  the  story  of  Abraham   is   a  lasting    monu- 
11—16 


M2  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ment  of  its  existence  among  the  Hebrews.  But  in  no 
country  did  this  abomination  prevail  to  so  great  a  de- 
gree. To  render  the  ghastly  sacrifice  still  worse,  the 
worshippers  devoured  the  flesh  of  the  victims.  Can- 
nibalism was  solemnly  practiced  throughout  Mexico. 
Human  blood  was  the  holiest  sacrament.  The  number 
of  victims  is  variously  stated;  one  authority  mentions 
more  than  eighty  thousand  in  a  single  day,  an  extraor- 
dinary occasion ;  others  but  fifty  in  a  year,  the  esti- 
mate of  Las  Casas.  Mr.  Prescott  thinks  it  safe  to 
admit  that  thousands  were  sacrificed  each  year.  Diaz 
declares  that  there  must  have  been  more  than  a  hun- 
dred thousand  skulls  of  these  victims  in  a  single  place, 
and  Gomara  relates  that  two  companions  of  Cortes 
counted  one  hundred  and  thirty-six  thousand  in  a 
single  edifice.  No'  apology  can  be  attempted  for 
such  an  abomination ;  but  the  same  thing  is  called  by 
different  names  in  different  places.  In  thirty-five 
years  King  Henry  VIII.  put  to  death  seventy-two 
thousand  of  his  subjects  by  the  hands  of  the  public 
executioner;  many  thousand  Moors  were  butchered  by 
the  Spanish  soldiers,  after  resistance  was  over,  in  the 
time  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella ;  a  great  number  were 
put  to  death  with  more  terrible  torments  by  the  most 
holy  court  of  the  Inquisition.  A  Mexican  would  write 
that  all  these  were  sacrificed  to  God.  Human  sacri- 
fices in  Mexico  excited  the  just  horror  of  Cortes  and  his 
companions,  while  the  butcheries  in  Spain  perhaps  did 
not  disturb  them  at  all.  Few  things  can  be  conceived 
of  more  abhorrent  than  the  human  sacrifices  and  can- 
nibalism of  the  Mexicans :  their  civilization  deprived 
them  of  the  excuse  Avhich  shelters  the  Fiji  and  New 
Zealander.  Yet  these  men-slaughterers  endeavored 
to  mitigate  the  sufferings  of  their  victims.     Mr.  Pres- 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  243 

cott  shows  a  just  and  hearty  horror  of  this  unnatural 
mode  of  worship.  But  one  of  their  gods,  Quetzalcoatl, 
it  is  said,  taught  "  a  more  spirituaHzing  rehgion,  in 
which  the  only  sacrifices  were  the  fruits  and  flowers 
of  the  season." 

We  come  next  to  the  conquest  of  Mexico  by  Cortes. 
He  first  heard  the  name  of  Montezuma  about  Easter, 
in  1519 ;  on  St.  Hippolytus'  day,  August  12th,  1521, 
the  Spaniards  carried  the  capital  by  assault,  and  the 
Mexican  empire  lay  at  their  disposal.  Montezuma 
had  died  a  captive ;  Guatemozin,  his  successor,  was  in 
their  lands.  Yet  Cortes  invaded  this  powerful  em- 
pire with  but  a  handful  of  soldiers.  When  he  left 
Cuba,  February  10th,  1519,  he  had  one  hundred  and 
ten  mariners,  five  hundred  and  fifty-three  soldiers,  ten 
heavy  guns,  four  falconets,  and  sixteen  horses ;  he 
had  also  about  two  hundred  Indians.  Two  horses  were 
subsequently  added,  and  eighteen  men ;  fifteen  men 
were  sent  away  from  the  expedition,  and  there  were 
other  but  inconsiderable  losses.  He  actually  began  his 
march  into  Mexico  with  about  four  hundred  foot  and 
fifteen  horse,  and  seven  pieces  of  artillery,  such  as  it 
was.  At  the  same  time,  he  had  also  thirteen  hundred 
Indian  worriors  and  one  thousand  Tamanes  or  porters, 
men  of  burthen.  The  number  of  Indians  was  soon  in- 
creased to  three  thousand.  When  he  first  entered  Mex- 
ico against  the  will  of  the  vacillating  monarch,  his 
whole  force  was  less  than  seven  thousand  men ;  but 
four  hundred  of  these  were  Spaniards.  After  he  had 
been  driven  from  the  city,  and  had  been  reinforced  by 
others  of  his  countrymen  who  joined  the  expedition, 
when  he  reviewed  his  forces  at  Tezcuco,  he  had  eighty- 
seven  horse,  eight  hundred  and  eighteen  foot,  of  whom 
one  hundred  and  eight  were  arquebusiers  and  cross- 


M4f  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

bowmen,  three  large  field-pieces  of  iron,  and  fifteen 
smaller  guns  of  brass. 

Such  were  the  forces  with  which  Cortes  invaded  and 
finally  conquered  a  country  containing  more  inhabi- 
tants, to  say  the  least,  than  the  kingdom  of  Spain 
at  that  time,  with  the  capital  as  large  and  populous 
as  Seville  and  Cordova  united,  or  twice  as  great  as 
Milan.  Certainly  the  most  daring  enterprise  of  an- 
cient times  becomes  tame  in  comparison  with  this. 
True,  there  were  some  circumstances  which  favored 
the  enterprise.  Had  there  been  no  dissensions  in  the 
Mexican  empire,  his  attempt  would  have  been  in  vain ; 
Avithout  his  Indian  allies  he  would  soon  have  been  cut 
off.  Then  he  was  aided  by  the  superstition  of  the 
times.  There  Was  a  prophecy  current  among  the  Mexi- 
cans which  Cortes  was  thought  to  fulfil.  There  was 
a  story  of  Quetzalcoatl,  a  mythical  person  worshipped 
as  a  god ;  he  had  taught  the  Mexicans  agriculture, 
the  use  of  metals,  and  the  arts  of  government,  and 
opposed  human  sacrifices  which  he  could  not  prevent ; 
he  had  a  fair  complexion  and  a  flowing  beard,  the 
patriarch  of  the  golden  age  of  Mexico ;  he  had  left 
the  country,  embarking  for  Tlapallan,  the  Mexican 
Eden  or  Atlantis,  but  the  prophecy  said  he  would  re- 
turn and  resume  the  possession  of  the  empire.  The 
Mexican  saw  Cortes,  and  said :  "  This  is  Quetzalcoatl 
returned  from  Paradise."  The  Spaniards  were  "  white 
gods."  Montezuma  himself  seems  to  have  shared  this 
opinion.  This  "  random  shot  of  prophecy,"  as  Mr. 
Prescott  calls  it,  seems  to  have  hit  the  mark,  and  pre- 
pared the  nation  for  conquest. 

Then  the  Spaniards  were  Caucasians,  and  had  the 
organic  superiority  of  that  race ;  besides,  they  were  far 
in  advance  of  the  Mexicans  in  the  art  of  war.     They 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  245 

had  horses,  steel,  ships,  gunpowder,  muskets,  and  can- 
non ;  they  understood  the  value  of  concerted  action, 
and  of  well-ordered  movements  on  the  field  of  battle; 
the}''  had  weapons  of  offence  and  defence  far  superior 
to  those  of  their  opponents.  If  Boston  could  be  in- 
vaded by  an  army  that  should  land  at  Provincetown, 
ascend  in  balloons,  and  from  a  single  position  recon- 
noitre the  whole  state  of  IMassachusetts,  and  from  the 
extremity  of  Cape  Cod  should  bombard  tliis  city,  lev- 
ehng  whole  blocks  of  houses  at  a  single  shot;  if  they 
had  swords  which  could  pierce  through  a  ploughshare 
as  easily  as  silk  or  cotton  cloth,  and  fire-arms  which 
shot  through  the  most  solid  walls  of  brick  and  stone 
as  readily  as  a  rifle-ball  goes  through  a  glass  window ; 
if  they  had  animals  trained  to  war  ten  times  larger 
than  the  elephant,  as  heavy  as  the  largest  locomotive 
steam-engine,  swifter  than  that,  and  more  difficult  to 
encounter  —  beasts  of  war  that  trod  down  horse,  foot, 
and  dragoons,  trampling  the  artillery  itself  into  the 
ground ;  if,  in  addition  to  this,  the  invaders  were  clad 
in  armour  bullet-proof,  were  each  stronger  than  ten 
common  men,  had  a  skill,  a  foresight,  a  daring,  and  a 
patient  courage  proportionate  to  their  instruments  of 
destruction,  and  a  cruelty  not  inferior  to  their  cour- 
age ;  and  if,  still  more,  it  was  currently  believed  that 
the  Book  of  Revelations  had  predicted  that  they  should 
come  and  conquer  the  land ;  if  whole  countries  were 
ready  to  help  the  invaders, —  then  we  should  be  con- 
fronted with  foes  which  would  bear  about  the  same 
relation  to  us  that  the  Spaniards  bore  to  the  Mexi- 
cans. Considering  all  these  things,  the  success  of  the 
conquerors,  marvellous  as  it  appears,  is  less  remarka- 
ble than  the  courage  and  patience  with  which  the 
Mexicans    resisted   the    attack.      Had    the    Spaniards 


246  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

known  the  full  extent  of  the  difficulty,  even  the  iron 
heart  of  Cortes  must  have  failed  him. 

But  we  must  ask,  What  right  had  the  Spaniards 
to  invade  Mexico  and  possess  themselves  of  its  soil? 
Mr.  Prescott  examines  this  question  in  an  unsatisfac- 
tory manner,  and,  we  are  sorry  to  say  it,  gives  an  un- 
just answer,  but  in  accordance  with  the  spirit  in  which 
his  three  historical  works  have  been  written.  An  un- 
prejudiced man  must  say  the  Spaniards  had  no  claim 
to  Mexico  but  that  of  the  stout  and  well-armed  high- 
wayman to  the  purse  of  the  undefended  traveler; 
the  right  of  the  pirate  over  the  unprotected  ship  of 
the  merchant.  It  is  true,  the  Spanish  monarch  had  a 
conveyance  from  the  Pope,  which  in  reality  gave  no 
better  title  and  was  worth  no  more  than  the  compen- 
dious transfer  offered  by  the  tempter  in  the  Bible  — 
"  all  these  will  I  give  thee  if  thou  wilt  fall  down  and 
worship  me."  Neither  Pope  nor  Satan  could  alienate 
and  convey  what  he  did  not  possess.  We  think  it 
cannot  be  maintained  in  natural  law  that  a  savage  tribe 
has  a  right  to  arrest  civilization  in  any  given  spot, 
to  keep  a  continent  for  a  hunting-field  dwelt  in  by 
a  few  wild  beasts  and  wild  men.  It  is  commonly,  per- 
haps universally,  conceded  that  a  nation  has  eminent 
domain  over  the  lands  of  the  individual,  and  allows 
him  to  hold  them  in  individual  severalty  for  his  pri- 
vate welfare  when  not  adverse  to  the  general  good  of 
the  state;  even  to  bequeath  them  to  his  successor,  sub- 
ject to  the  same  condition.  So  the  human  race  has  em- 
inent domain  over  the  lands  of  each  particular  nation, 
allowing  it  to  hold  in  national  severalty  for  the  nation's 
welfare,  when  not  adverse  to  the  universal  good  of 
mankind.  As  there  is  a  solidarity  of  the  nation,  so 
is  there  of  the  race,  and  rights  and  duties,  national 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  247 

or  universal,  thence  accruing.  But  when  the  nation 
takes  the  lands  of  the  individual,  which  he  has  a  good 
natural  title  to,  they  must  fully  indemnify  that  in- 
dividual for  his  lands,  else  it  is  robbery ;  and  robbery 
by  a  nation,  and  for  the  sake  of  the  greatest  majority 
of  its  citizens,  is  no  better  in  itself  than  if  done  by  one 
man  in  his  own  name, —  it  is  still  robbery,  spoliation 
contrary  to  natural  law.  The  same  holds  good  be- 
tween any  one  nation  and  mankind,  between  the  sav- 
age and  the  civilized  who  may  assume  to  represent  the 
consciousness  of  mankind.  This  idea  seems  to  have 
been  in  the  mind  of  the  settlers  of  New  England ;  if 
not  in  their  mind,  they  acted  as  if  it  were.  The  pil- 
grim and  the  puritan  knew  that  the  naked  savages 
of  Massachusetts  had  no  natural  right  adverse  to  the 
welfare  of  the  human  race,  no  right  to  keep  the  land 
a  wilderness  and  shut  civilization  out  of  it  forever ; 
but  they  knew,  also,  that  though  the  civilized  man  rep- 
resented the  higher  consciousness  of  mankind,  and, 
so  far  as  that  went  represented  the  human  race,  still 
he  had  no  right,  whatever  necessity  compelled  him,  to 
take  from  the  savages,  against  their  will,  all  that 
they  had  or  anything  that  they  had,  without  returning 
them  a  complete  equivalent  therefor.  So  these  settlers 
of  New  England  did  not  rely  on  the  grant  of  the  Eng- 
lish king  for  their  title  to  the  Indian  land ;  they 
bought  it  of  the  Indians,  took  a  deed,  recorded  the 
transfer,  and  honestly  paid  for  it  —  a  small  consider- 
ation, but  enough  to  extinguish  the  title,  and  more  than 
it  was  worth  to  the  Indians  themselves.  But  in  New 
England  no  Indian  owned  land  in  severalty,  more  than 
wind  and  water,  excepting  the  spot  his  wigwam  cov- 
ered, and  the  little  patch  subjected  to  the  rude  til- 
lage  of  his   wife.      These   were   the   only   spots   with 


S48  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

which  he  had  mixed  up  his  labor.  There  was  enough 
for  all,  and  therefore  personal  and  exclusive  appro- 
priation had  hardly  begun.  At  the  merest  caprice, 
the  Indian  left  his  place  to  whomsoever  might  take  it, 
and  himself  sought  another  —  as  free  as  the  beaver 
or  the  wild-cat,  who  like  him  respected  the  appropria- 
tion of  another.  This  tract  belonged  to  the  Narra- 
gansetts,  that  to  the  Pequods.  There  was  appropria- 
tion by  the  tribe,  not  by  the  individual.  The  title 
of  the  Narragansetts  was  good  as  against  the  Pequads, 
or  any  other  tribe,  but  each  man  of  that  tribe  took  any 
of  the  national  lands  not  previously  appropriated,  as 
freely  as  he  took  the  air  and  the  water  which  was  not 
in  another  man's  mouth.  The  chief  of  the  tribe 
seems  to  have  acted  as  trustee,  and  in  that  capacity 
gave  his  quitclaim  deed  to  the  chief  of  the  white  men, 
acting  in  behalf  of  the  rest,  and  conveyed  away  the 
title  of  the  tribe.  The  Indian  parted  with  his  land 
for  a  "  good  consideration,"  for  "  value  received." 

In  Mexico  the  case  was  quite  different.  Almost  all 
the  valuable  land  was  owned  in  severalty ;  individuals 
had  mixed  their  labor  with  the  soil,  owning  it  as  much 
as  they  owned  the  fish-hook  they  had  made,  or  the 
ear  of  corn  they  had  grown ;  owned  it  as  completely  as 
a  man  can  own  the  soil.  The  Mexicans  were  a  civilized 
people ;  the  lands  in  the  valley  of  Mexico  were  as  well 
cultivated  as  the  lands  in  Granada,  the  garden  of  Eu- 
rope ;  the  natives  had  not  stopped  in  their  progress, 
as  Mr.  Prescott  thinks  the  Moors  had  done  in  Spain, 
and  their  land  therefore  could  not  be  claimed  as  a 
derelict  of  civilization  ;  on  the  contrary,  they  seem  to 
have  been  in  a  state  of  rapid  advance,  as  much  so  as 
the  Spanish  nation  itself.  The  superior  culture  of  the 
Spanish  gave  him  no  right  to  these  lands  without  in- 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  M9 

demnifying  the  individual  owners, —  no  more  than  the 
EngKsh  have  to  China,  or  the  Dutch  to  Turkey ;  no 
more  than  the  New  Englanders  would  have  to  seize 
Spain  and  Italy  at  this  day.  The  Spaniard  could  not 
plead  necessity,  like  the  pilgrims, — ■  poor,  persecuted, 
and  just  escaped  from  the  ocean, —  who  took  a  fish 
and  some  com  in  their  extremity,  when  they  landed 
on  Cape  Cod,  and  carefully  paid  for  both  when, 
months  afterwards,  they  found  the  owners !  Oppres- 
sion never  planted  a  single  Spaniard  in  America.  The 
Moors  were  not  allowed  to  migrate  thither,  under  the 
administration  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella.  The  Span- 
iards did  not  attempt  or  pretend  to  buy  a  title  to  the 
land.  Their  claim  was  the  claim  of  the  pirate.  It  is 
true,  the  Pope  as  head  of  the  human  race,  trustee  for 
all  mankind,  and  vicegerent  of  Almighty  God,  gave 
a  title  to  America.  Could  Cortes  and  the  others  hold 
under  that.^  Mr.  Prescott  thinks  they  could  satisfy 
their  own  consciences  in  that  way  and  though  the 
conveyance  were  worthless  in  itself,  they  would  be  sub- 
jectively in  the  right.  But  the  Pope  gave  a  grant  of 
lands  subject  to  this  condition,  the  heathen  must  be 
converted.  If  that  were  not  done,  the  title  failed 
through  breach  of  covenant.  We  shall  see  how  this 
was  attended  to. 

Mr.  Prescott  says  the  desire  of  converting  the  natives 
was  "  paramount  to  every  calculation  of  personal  in- 
terest in  the  breast  of  Cortes."  We  are  amazed  at  a 
statement  so  gratuitous  and  irreconcilable  with  the 
facts  of  the  case;  we  should  say  that  the  calculation 
of  personal  interest  was  always  paramount  to  the  de- 
sire of  converting  the  natives.  Mr.  Prescott  says, 
*'  There  was  nothing  which  the  Spanish  government 
had  more  earnestly  at  heart  than  the  conversion  of  the 


250  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Indians."  We  wish  there  were  some  facts  to  sustain 
the  assertion.  It  is  true,  a  pretence  was  often  made 
of  a  desire  to  Christianize  the  Indians.  Velasquez  in- 
structs Cortes  "  to  bear  in  mind,  above  all  things, 
that  the  object  which  the  Spanish  monarch  had  most 
at  heart  was  the  convertion  of  the  Indians ;"  he  was, 
however,  to  impress  on  them  the  gi'andeur  and  good- 
ness of  his  royal  master,  and  to  invite  them  "  to  give 
in  their  allegiance  to  him,  and  to  manifest  it  by  regal- 
ing him  with  such  comfortable  presents  of  gold,  pearls, 
and  precious  stones,  as,  by  showing  their  good  will, 
would  secure  his  favor  and  protection."  Imagine, 
oh  gentle  or  simple  readers,  imagine  the  American 
board  of  foreign  missionaries  sending  out  their  ser- 
vants to  China  with  such  instructions,  asking  for 
"  comfortable  presents  "  of  silks,  and  Sycee  silver,  and 
tea !  Imagine,  also,  the  admiration  of  the  Castilian 
court,  if  Cortes  had  believed  that  "  the  conversion  of 
the  Indians  "  was  "  the  object  which  the  Spanish  mon- 
arch had  most  at  heart,"  and  had  converted  the  whole 
of  Mexico,  overturned  every  idol,  sending  them  all  as 
trophies  to  his  "  most  noble,  powerful,  and  catholic 
prince,  invincible  emperor,  and  our  sovereign  lord," 
planted  the  cross  on  every  teocall%  but  the  Spanish 
flag  nowhere,  and  had  not  sent  home  a  single  ounce  of 
gold,  nor  gained  an  inch  of  land !  Imagine  the  honors, 
the  triumphal  processions,  that  would  have  been  his 
welcome  home  to  old  Castile!  Mr.  Prescott,  in  the 
very  teeth  of  facts,  maintains  that  Cortes  took  this 
part  of  his  instructions  to  the  letter,  and  with  him 
that  the  conversion  of  the  natiA^es  was  paramount  "  to 
every  calculation  of  personal  interest."  His  "  first  ob- 
ject," says  Mr.  Prescott,  "  was  to  reclaim  the  natives 
from  their  gross  idolatry,  and  to  substitute  a  purer 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  251 

form  of  worship.  .  .  .  He  was  prepared  to  use 
force  if  milder  means  should  prove  ineffectual."  He 
felt  "  he  had  a  high  mission  to  perform  as  a  soldier  of 
the  cross."  Cortes  comes  to  St.  Juan  de  Ulloa,  as 
it  is  now  called,  and  invites  the  natives  "  to  abandon 
their  cursed  idols,  abolish  human  sacrifice,  and  abstain 
from  kidnapping."  Everybody  knows  the  fable  of 
the  Fox  turned  Preacher ;  it  is  less  remarkable  than  the 
historical  and  kindred  fable  of  Cortes  turned  mis- 
sionary. 

This  confessor  of  the  faith,  this  missionary  of  the 
Lord,  this  great  first  apostle  to  the  Gentiles  of  Te- 
nochtitlan,  comes  to  Tabasco,  full  of  war  and  Chris- 
tianity, resolved,  as  Mr.  Prescott  confesses,  to  build 

"  his    faith   upon 
The   holy   text  of   pike  and   gun." 

The  natives  opposed  the  entrance  of  armed  strangers, 
as  the  Dutch  or  the  Portuguese  would  have  done. 
Coortes  made  proclamation,  and  assured  them  that  "  if 
blood  were  spilt  the  sin  would  lie  in  their  heads." 
They  answered  with  shouts  of  defiance  and  a  shower 
of  arrows.  He  took  the  town,  and  two  days  after  had 
a  severe  battle  with  the  inhabitants  of  the  country. 
Of  course  the  Spaniards  were  victorious,  and  the  In- 
dians suffered  great  loss ;  some  say  one  thousand  were 
slain,  some  thirty  thousand.  The  battle  was  fought 
on  Lady  Day,  the  day  of  the  miraculous  conception  of 
the  mother  of  God.  The  battle  was  a  good  type  of 
the  "  annunciation  "  brought  by  this  new  Gabriel  to 
the  American  Virgin.  As  the  primitive  Christians,  it 
is  said,  had  miraculous  assistance  in  wielding  their 
spiritual  weapons,  so  these  devout  heralds  of  the  faith, 
"  soldiers  of  the  cross,"  and  "  followers  of  the  Lamb," 
had     aid     from     on     high  —  a     celestial     champion 


252  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

"  mounted  on  his  grey  war-horse,  heading  the  rescue, 
and  tramphng  over  the  bodies  of  the  fallen  infidels ! " 
Cortes  thought  it  was  his  own  tutelary  saint, —  Saint 
Peter,  a  patron  not  wholly  unsuitable  for  such  a  client, 
—  "  but,"  says  Pizarro  y  Orellana,  "  the  common  and 
indubitable  opinion  is,  that  it  was  our  glorious  apostle, 
Saint  James,  the  bulwork  and  safeguard  of  the  na- 
tion." After  the  battle  the  Indians  were  "  converted," 
and  the  event  celebrated  on  Palm  Sunday.  "  Behold 
thy  King  cometh  unto  thee  meek  "  must  have  been 
sung  with  great  unction  that  sabbath  morn,  and  the 
lesson  for  the  day,  "  Come  unto  me,  ye  that  labour  and 
are  heavy  laden,"  must  have  delighted  Saint  Peter  and 
Saint  James,  heard  "  in  this  connection ! "  A  city 
was  afterwards  built  on  the  battle-field ;  its  name  com- 
memorates the  day,  the  deed,  and  the  Christianity  of 
these  apostles  —  Saint  Mary  of  Victory  ! 

At  Compoalla  Cortes  tried  his  hand  at  the  delightful 
work  of  conversion ;  the  Indian  monarch,  however,  de- 
clared his  own  gods  were  good  enough  for  him,  and 
he  could  not  comprehend  how  the  Creator  of  the  uni- 
verse "  could  condescend  to  take  the  form  of  humanity, 
with  its  infirmities  and  ills,  and  wander  about  the 
earth,  the  voluntary  victim  of  ....  those 
whom  his  breath  had  called  into  existence."  Poor  be- 
nighted heathen !  To  Cortes  this  was  easy  as  drawing 
his  sword.  However,  the  nation  was  converted  —  at 
least  the  temples.  Here,  though  not  for  the  first 
or  last  time,i —  for  "  the  things  that  are  seen  are  tem- 
poral "  and  require  to  be  renewed, —  these  devout  apos- 
tles received  a  foretaste  of  their  reward,  in  the  form 
of  "  eight  Indian  maidens,  richly  dressed,  wearing 
collars  and  ornaments  of  gold,  with  a  number  of  female 
slaves  to  wait  on  them."     The  chief  requested  that  they 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  253 

might  become  wives  of  tlie  Spanish  captains.  "  Cortes 
received  the  damsels  courteously^,"  such  was  his  zeal 
for  Christianity,  -  but  told  the  cacique  they  must  first 
be  baptized."  "  Porque  manera  no  era  permitido 
a  homhres,  hijos  de  la  Igles'ia  di  Dios,  tener  commercio 
con  Idolatras!  "  Similar  comforters  were  frequently 
"  added  to  their  number."  Bernal  Diaz,  a  very  plain- 
spoken  old  soldier,  who  cared  not  over  much  for  the 
souls  of  the  heathen,  mentions  these  things  oftener 
than  Mr.  Prescott.  Cortes  himself,  in  virtue  of  his 
apostolic  dignity,  we  suppose,  or  as  head  of  the  new 
church,  took  the  right  "  to  lead  about  "  the  celebrated 
Marina, —  not  without  other  helpmeets,  we  think, —  an 
Indian  woman  who  was  of  great  service  in  the  expedi- 
tion. 

This  band  of  missionaries  went  to  Cholula,  and  mas- 
sacred the  inhabitants,  who  had  been  previously  as- 
sembled in  a  narrow  place  convenient  for  the  slaugh- 
ter. A  portion  of  the  town  was  burnt,  and,  as  Cortes 
himself  says,  three  thousand  of  the  inhabitants  put  to 
death.  Herrera  makes  the  number  six  thousand,  and 
others  yet  greater.  Mr.  Prescott  is  far  from  justify- 
ing the  deed,  yet  he  endeavors  to  excuse  the  conduct 
of  Cortes ;  these  were  heathens,  religious  infidelity 
was  thought  a  sin  to  be  punished  with  fire  and  faggot 
in  this  life,  and  eternal  suffering  in  the  next.  But 
if  it  is  believed  that  death  sends  a  man  to  eternal  tor- 
ment, a  "  soldier  of  the  cross  "  would  hesitate  a  little 
before  butchering  six  thousand  men.  Las  Casas  adds 
that  he  burnt  alive  more  than  one  hundred  caciques 
whom  he  had  craftily  got  into  his  hands,  and  that 
while  the  city  was  on  fire,  it  was  said  that  Cortes  re- 
peated a  snatch  of  poetry,  comparing  himself  to  Nero 
looking  down  from   the  Tarpeian  rock   on  the  bum- 


254  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ing  of  Rome,  and  caring  not  for  the  screams  of  the 
children  and  the  old  men.  This  story  seems  less  prob- 
able to  Mr.  Prescott  than  to  us.  After  thus  introduc- 
ing hinLself  to  the  Cholulans,  Cortes  "  urged  the  citi- 
zens to  embrace  the  cross  "  and  abandon  their  false 
gods. 

When  Cortes  had  his  first  interview  with  Monte- 
zuma, he  told  the  monarch  that  the  Christians  had 
come  to  snatch  his  soul  and  the  souls  of  his  people  from 
the  flames  of  eternal  fire.  The  Mexican  king  must 
have  thought  them  remarkable  men  for  such  a  mis- 
sion. When  about  to  advance  to  the  siege  of  Mexico, 
Cortes  tells  his  soldiers  that  "  the  conversion  of  the 
heathen  is  the  work  most  acceptable  in  the  eye  of  the 
Almighty,  and  one  that  will  be  sure  to  receive  his  sup- 
port;"  that  without  this  the  war  would  be  unjust,  and 
all  they  might  gain  by  it,  robbery.  When  a  new  king 
was  established  at  Tezcuco,  Cortes  placed  several  Span- 
iards about  him,  ostensibly  to  instruct  him  in  their  lan- 
guage and  religion,  but  really  as  spies  to  watch  over 
his  conduct  and  prevent  his  correspondence  with  the 
Mexicans. 

The  Spanish  apostles  had  one  mode  of  distinguish- 
ing their  converts  and  catechumens  from  such  as  had 
not  fallen  into  their  hands  which  we  do  not  find  prac- 
ticed by  the  evangelists  of  other  nations :  they  branded 
their  captives  with  a  hot  iron.  The  letter  G  was  thus 
indeliably  burnt  upon  them,  to  denote  that  they  were 
the  spoils  of  war  (giierra).  Diaz  mentions  the  brand- 
ing of  the  captives  a  great  deal  oftener  than  Mr.  Pres- 
cott ;  on  several  occasions  it  was  done  to  "  a  vast  num- 
ber of  the  inhabitants,"  and  again,  "  great  numbers 
were  led  away  into  slavery  and  marked  in  the  face 
with    a    red-hot   iron."      This     hateful     torment     was 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  255 

burned  upon  the  women  as  well  as  the  men;  even  upon 
the  faces  of  the  women  who  were  to  serve  as  temporary 
"  wives  "  to  the  conquerors,  who,  it  seems,  were  not 
always  so  anxious  to  ensure  their  baptism  as  their 
branding. 

The  motive  of  the  conquerors  was  love  of  conquest 
and  plunder.  This  is  plain  enough  in  the  despatches 
of  Cortes.  Diaz  makes  no  concealment  of  the  fact ;  he 
wished  the  land  to  be  divided  as  follows :  one-fifth  for 
the  king,  one-fifth  for  the  church,  and  the  rest  among 
the  conquerors,  according  to  their  rank  and  merits. 
As  the  conquerors  who  survived  the  conquest  could  not 
have  been  more  than  five  or  six  hundred,  they  would 
have  been  pretty  well  paid  for  two  or  three  years'  ser- 
vice. But  what  would  be  left  for  the  converted  na- 
tives?    Heaven  in  the  next  life  and  slavery  in  this. 

The  design  of  the  conquerors  is  made  plain  by  the 
invasion  itself,  by  their  conduct  during  the  war,  and 
by  the  institutions  they  established  after  it  was  over; 
they  wanted  the  property  and  the  persons  of  the  Mex- 
icans. They  took  both,  perhaps  with  as  little  ferocity 
and  as  much  decorum  as  any  nation  could  rob  and  en- 
slave another.  The  plea  of  a  desire  to  convert  the 
Indians  is  a  poor  defence,  and  unworthy  of  an  histo- 
rian like  Mr.  Prescott.  It  would  be  better  rhetoric, 
as  well  as  truer  and  more  honest,  to  say:  these  were 
hard,  iron  men,  with  rather  less  than  the  average  in- 
telligence, morality,  and  piety  of  their  nation ;  they 
went  to  Mexico,  led  thither  by  love  of  adventure,  love 
of  fame,  of  power,  or  of  gold ;  they  only  pretended  to 
care  for  the  souls  of  the  men  whose  property  they 
plundered,  whose  daughters  they  debauched,  whose 
persons  they  stole  or  slew ! 

Certainly    they    were    very     remarkable    heralds    of 


S56  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Christianity.  By  steel  and  gunpowder  they  subdued 
kingdoms,  wrought  unrighteousness,  obtained  promises. 
They  wandered  about  in  steel  caps,  dragging  their  ar- 
tillery after  them,  impoverishing,  afflicting,  torment- 
ing. They  routed  armies ;  cities  they  overthrew  and 
turned  upside  down ;  captives  they  took  and  branded 
in  the  name  of  God.  As  an  earnest  of  their  reward, 
they  had  female  slaves  without  number,  the  first-fruits 
of  them  that  believe,  and  having  satiated  their  avarice 
and  their  lust,  and  obtained  a  good  report  through 
the  blood  of  their  victims,  they  received  the  promises, 
the  heritage  of  the  heathen ;  yea,  such  was  the  reward 
of  all  those  blessed  apostles  —  of  whom  the  world  was 
not  worthy  —  horse,  foot,  and  dragoons. 

Some  conquerors  have  a  great  idea,  and  for  the 
sake  of  that  do  deeds  which  revolt  the  moral  sense  of 
mankind.  Such  men  have  some  excuse  for  their  vio- 
lent dealing  with  the  world,  in  the  service  they  render ; 
they  esteem  themselves  men  of  destiny,  and  in  behalf 
of  their  idea  go  forth  through  seas  of  blood  of  their 
own  shedding.  Smiting  with  the  sword,  it  is  not  for 
themselves  they  smite.  Thus  there  is  some  defence  for 
Alexander,  Hannibal,  Cgesar,  and  Charlemagne ;  for 
Napoleon  and  for  Cromwell;  even  Frederic  the  Great 
was  not  a  mere  fighter.  But  Cortes  cannot  be  put 
in  this  class.  He  had  no'  idea  in  advance  of  his  age ; 
in  all  but  courage  and  military  skill  he  appears  be- 
hind his  times.  No  noble  thought,  no  lofty  sentiment 
seems  to  have  inspired  him ;  none  such  breathes  in  his 
words  or  deeds.  Mr.  Prescott  says  he  was  not  a  "  mere 
fighter,"  but  we  see  nothing  else  that  can  be  said  to 
distinguish  him  from  the  rest  of  men.  He  was  one  of 
the  most  vulgar  of  fighters ;  he  loved  the  excitement  of 
adventurous  deeds ;  he  sought  vulgar  fame,  and  vul- 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  S57 

gar  wealth  and  power,  by  vulgar  means  for  vulgar 
ends.  Few  distinguished  conquerors  were  so  ignoble. 
He  came  among  the  red  men  of  America ;  they  began 
by  calling  him  a  god,  and  ended  with  hating  him  as 
the  devil.  In  the  hot  region  of  Mexico  he  was  treated 
with  great  kindness ;  his  companions  "  experienced 
every  alleviation  that  could  be  desired  from  the  atten- 
tions of  the  friendly  nations."  They  made  more  than 
a  thousand  booths  for  the  Spaniards,  and  freely  gave 
provisions  for  Cortes  and  his  officers.  Montezuma 
sent  to  learn  who  we  were,  says  Diaz,  and  what  we 
wanted  for  our  ships ;  we  were  only  to  tell  what  we 
wanted,  and  they  were  to  furnish  it.  The  Indians  who 
attached  themselves  to  his  standard  were  faithful ;  of 
the  Tlascalans  only  Xicotencatl  proved  untrue.  But 
Cortes  was  crafty,  insidious,  and  deceitful.  He  fo- 
mented discontent ;  he  encouraged  the  disaffected  na- 
tions to  rely  on  his  protection,  "  as  he  had  come  to 
redress  their  wrongs,"  while  he  came  to  steal  their  pos- 
sessions and  their  persons.  He  told  his  own  soldiers 
they  were  to  fight  against  rebels  who  had  revolted  from 
their  liege  lord ;  against  barbarians,  the  enemies  of 
Christianity ;  to  fight  the  battles  of  the  cross,  to  obtain 
riches  and  honor  in  this  life  and  imperishable  glory 
in  heaven. 

He  was  unjust  to  his  own  soldiers,  seizing  more  than 
his  share  of  the  booty.  Diaz  complains  of  this  oftener 
than  Mr.  Prescott ;  even  the  food  was  sometimes  un- 
justly divided.  Did  the  soldiers  complain,  Cortes 
made  a  speech  full  of  "  the  most  honeyed  phrases  and 
arguments  most  specious  "  (palabras  muy  mellifluas, 
.  razones  rmiy  hien  dichas  ).  Some  he 
bribed   into   silence   with   gold,    others   with   promises ; 

some  he  put  in  chains.    Were  the  captives  to  be  divided, 
11—17 


g58  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

he  not  only  selected  first  the  king's  fifth  thereof  and 
his  own,  but  the  finest  of  the  women  were  secretly  set 
apart,  so  that,  as  one  of  these  missionaries  complains, 
the  common  soldiers  found  only  "  old  and  ugly  wo- 
men "  left  for  them.  After  the  spoil  was  divided  in 
this  unjust  fashion,  he  would  not  always  allow  the 
soldiers  to  keep  their  scanty  share,  but  once  remanded 
one-third  of  it  back  again,  and  insisted  that  if  it 
were  not  restored  he  would  take  the  whole.  Under 
pretense  of  loans  he  extorted  a  good  deal  from  his 
own  soldiers  —  a  circumstance  which  injured  him 
much,  says  Diaz.  Mr.  Prescott  thinks  such  occasions 
were  "  critical  conjunctures  which  taxed  all  the  address 
and  personal  authority  of  Cortes.  He  never  shrank 
from  them,  but  on  such  occasions  was  true  to  himself." 

But  truth  to  himself  was  falseness  to  his  soldiers. 
He  would  violate  his  word  to  them  for  the  sake  of 
more  plunder.  Much  as  they  honored  and  feared 
him,  few  loved  him  much,  and  in  one  of  his  most 
trying  times,  says  the  same  old  soldier  we  have  often 
quoted,  they  all  grudged  him  a  handful  of  maize  to 
stay  his  hunger. 

Cortes  was  needlessly  cruel ;  this  appears  in  the 
slaughter  at  Tabasco,  and  in  the  massacre  at  Cholula, 
which  even  Mr.  Prescott  thinks  a  dark  stain  on  the 
memory  of  the  conquerors.  His  punishments  often 
appear  wanton : —  he  orders  a  man  to  be  killed  for 
stealing  a  pair  of  fowls,  another  for  speaking  angrily 
to  Montezuma ;  he  has  the  feet  of  his  pilot  chopped 
off  for  some  offence ;  he  took  fifty  Tlascalans  who 
came  to  his  camp  as  spies,  cut  off  their  hands,  and  sent 
them  home.  The  friendly  Indians  were  curious  to  see 
the  Spaniards,  and  came  too  near  the  lines  of  their 
encampment,  and  Cortes  coolly  relates  that  fifteen,  or 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  259 

twenty  of  them  were  shot  down  by  the  sentries.  Mr. 
Prescott  excuses  this;  the  "jealousy  of  the  court  and 
the  cautions  he  had  received  from  his  aUies 
seem  to  have  given  an  unnatural  acuteness 
to  his  perceptions  of  danger."  After  the  conquest  an 
insurrection  took  place  and  was  speedily  put  down; 
four  hundred  chiefs  were  sentenced  to  the  stake  or  the 
gibbet,  "  by  which  means,"  says  Cortes,  "  God  be 
praised,  the  safety  of  the  Spaniards  was  secured."  He 
burnt  alive  some  of  Montezuma's  officers,  who  were 
guilty  of  no  offence  but  that  of  obeying  their  king; 
at  the  same  time  he  punished  Montezuma  for  giving 
them  the  order.  He  tortured  the  members  of  Guatemo- 
zin's  household,  putting  boiling  oil  upon  their  feet. 
This  great  apostle  to  the  Gentiles  put  Guatemozin 
himself  and  the  cacique  of  Tacuba  to  the  torture  — 
not  exactly  to  save  his  soul,  "  so  as  by  fire,"  but  to 
get  his  gold.  Afterwards,  on  a  groundless  suspicion, 
he  treacherously  hung  them  both.  Mr.  Prescott  shows 
little  horror  at  these  cruelties,  little  sense  of  their  in- 
justice; nay,  he  seems  to  seek  to  mitigate  the  natural 
indignation  which  a  man  feels  at  such  tyranny  of  the 
strong  over  the  weak.  We  confess  our  astonishment 
that  an  historian  who  thinks  the  desire  of  converting 
the  heathen  was  the  paramount  motive  in  the  breast 
of  Cortes  has  no  more  censure  to  bestow  on  such  wan- 
ton cruelties,  so  frequently  perpetrated  as  they  were. 
The  soldiers  of  the  cross,  going  on  their  mission  of 
mercy,  to  snatch  the  Indians  from  the  fires  of  hell, 
dress  the  wounds  of  their  horses  with  melted  fat  from 
the  bodies  of  the  natives  they  were  to  convert ;  Mr 
Prescott  makes  no  comment.  Cortes  has  the  slaves 
branded  with  a  hot  iron  in  the  cheek.  Diaz  mentions 
this  more  than  ten  times ;  Mr.  Prescott  but  twice,  and 


260  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

then  has  no  word  to  say  —  more  than  if  they  had  been 
baptized  with  water. 

The  massacre  at  Cholula  was  terrible  as  it  was  need- 
less and  wanton.  "  More  than  three  thousand  of  the 
enemy  perished  in  ten  hours,"  says  Cortes.  INlr.  Pres- 
cott  confesses  this  has  "  left  a  dark  stain  on  the  memory 
of  the  conquerors,"  that  he  does  not  intend  to  vindicate 
their  cruel  deeds,  and  then  undertakes  to  excuse  this 
very  cruelty.  We  confess  our  astonishment  at  such  an 
excuse. 

The  massacre  at  Mexico,  after  the  capture  of  the 
city,  was  terrible.  We  will  not  dwell  upon  it,  nor  re- 
count its  bloody  details.  Cortes  had  destroyed  town 
after  town ;  army  after  army  had  he  swept  off.  It  is 
within  bounds  to  say  that  half  a  million  men  had  been 
put  to  the  sword  since  the  Spaniards  came  thither, 
desirous  above  all  things  to  convert  their  precious  souls ; 
now  the  mighty  capital,  the  centre  of  civilization  in 
North  America,  whose  influence  had  been  felt  from  the 
Mexique  Gulf  to  the  Bay  of  Fundy,  along  either  shore 
of  the  continent,  has  fallen ;  Guatemozin  is  captured ; 
the  wide  rich  empire  lies  submissive  at  his  feet ;  Cortes 
himself,  all  iron  as  he  was  and  smeared  with  guiltless 
blood,  is  moved  with  compassion ;  the  nation  is  to  be 
blotted  out.  But  Mr.  Prescott  has  no  sympathy  with 
the  Mexicans ;  nay,  he  pauses  to  avert  the  sympathy  of 
other  men,  interposing  his  shield  of  ice  between  the 
victim  and  the  compassion  of  mankind.     He  says : — 

"  We  cannot  regret  the  fall  of  an  empire  which  did  so  little 
to  promote  the  happiness  of  its  subjects  or  the  real  interests 
of  humanity."  "  The  Aztecs  were  emphatically  a  fierce  and 
brutal  race,  little  calculated,  in  their  best  aspects  to  excite  our 
sj^mpathy  and  regard.  Their  civilization,  such  as  it  was,  was 
not  their  own,  but  reflected,  perhaps  imperfectly,  from  a  race 
whom   they    had   succeeded.     ...     It    was    a    generous    graft 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  S61 

on  a  vicious  stock,  and  could  have  brought  no  fruit  to  perfec- 
tion. They  ruled  over  their  wide  domains  with  a  sword  instead 
of  a  sceptre.  They  did  nothing  in  any  way  to  ameliorate  the 
condition  or  in  any  way  promote  the  progress  of  their  vassals. 
Their  vassals  were  serfs,  used  only  to  minister  to  their 
pleasure." 

"  The  feeble  light  of  civilization,"  he  says,  "  was 
growing  fainter  and  fainter."  He  gives  not  a  single 
fact  to  warrant  this  latter  statement,  but  even  if  it 
were  true,  the  Spaniards  did  not  mend  the  matter  by 
overturning  the  candlestick  and  putting  their  bloody 
heel  on  the  flickering  torch.  He  attempts  to  remove 
any  little  compassion  which  may  linger  in  his  reader's 
heart;  the  Mexicans  were  guilty  of  human  sacrifices, 
they  also  were  cannibals.  True,  and  it  is  a  horrible 
thing  to  think  of;  but  think  of  the  butcheries  com- 
mitted by  the  Spaniards,  also  in  the  name  of  God ;  try 
each  nation  by  its  light,  and  which  is  the  the  worse, 
the  cannibal  or  the  Christian.?  Mr.  Prescott  tries  to 
excuse  the  barbarities  of  the  conquerors ;  when  any 
of  the  inhabitants  fell  into  their  hands,  "  they  were 
kindly  entertained,  their  wants  supplied,  and  every 
means  taken  to  infuse  into  them  a  spirit  of  concilia- 
tion." The  sad  shades  of  Montezuma  and  Guatemozin 
what  will  they  say  to  that.?  Diaz  informs  us  of  the 
"  means  taken  "  in  many  an  instance.  They  were  re- 
duced to  slavery,  branded  with  a  hot  iron  in  the 
cheek.  This  was  the  kindly  entertainment  they  met 
with  from  those  Christian  missionaries,  who  held  their 
lands  on  condition  of  converting  the  natives.  We 
might  naturally  look  for  justice  from  an  American 
writer,  with  no  national  prejudice  to  blind  him.  But 
no,  his  sympathy  is  wholly  with  the  conquerors ;  the 
spirit  of  chivalry  is  mightier  with  him  than  the  spirit 
of    humanity.     Bustamente,    however,    spite    of    the 


262  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Spanish  blood  in  his  veins,  writing  on  the  spot  made 
famous  by  the  deeds  of  Cortes  and  his  followers,  wishes 
a  monument  might  be  erected  to  Guatemozin,  on  the 
spot  where  he  was  taken  captive,  and  an  inscription 
thereon  to  "  devote  to  eternal  execration  the  detested 
memory  of  those  banditti."  The  work  is  needless ; 
themselves  have  erected  a  monument  "  more  lasting 
than  brass,"  telling  of  their  power  and  their  prowess, 
but  also  of  their  more  than  heathen  cruelty,  their 
tyranny,  and  their  shame.  The  rhetoric  of  Mr.  Pres- 
cott  cannot  hide  them  from  the  justice  of  mankind. 

We  have  little  to  say  of  the  subsequent  career  of 
Cortes.  He  made  a  bold  and  desperate  expedition  to 
the  southern  part  of  North  America,  enduring  won- 
derful hardships,  fighting  with  his  usual  skill  and 
courage.  Mexico  was  settled  by  hungry  Spaniards, 
the  natives  mainly  reduced  to  slavery.  Cortes  became 
rich  and  powerful.  He  was  accused  before  the  Em- 
peror, and  defended  himself.  He  received  great 
honors  in  Spain,  when  he  returned  thither.  He  set- 
tled down  on  an  estate  in  Mexico.  He  died  at  length 
in  Spain,  but  in  his  will  expresses  doubts  "  whether 
one  can  conscientiously  hold  property  in  Indian 
slaves."  Mr.  Prescott  writes  the  eulogy  of  his  hero, 
which  we  have  not  space  to  criticize.  But  there  are 
two  ways  of  judging  such  a  man ;  one  is  that  of  hu- 
manity. Here  the  inquirer  looks  over  the  whole  field 
of  history,  impartially  weighs  the  good  and  ill  of  a  man, 
allows  for  his  failings  if  they  belong  to  his  age,  and 
detracts  from  his  individual  merits  if  they  also  are 
held  in  common  with  the  mass  of  men,  but  judges  the 
age  and  its  institutions  by  the  standard  of  absolute 
justice.  This  is  the  work  of  the  philosophic  historian. 
The  other  way  is  that  of  personal  admiration  of  the 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  263 

hero.  We  are  sorry  to  say  that  Mr.  Prescott  has 
taken  the  latter  course.  Crime  is  one  thing ;  but  the 
theory  which  excuses,  defends,  justifies  crime  is  quite  a 
different  thing,  is  itself  not  to  be  justified,  defended  or 
excused.  We  are  sorry  to  add  the  name  of  Mr.  Pres- 
cott to  the  long  list  of  writers  who  have  a  theory 
which  attempts  to  justify  the  crime  against  mankind, 
the  tyranny  of  might  over  right.  We  are  sorry  to  say 
of  this  work  in  general,  and  on  the  whole,  that  it  is 
not  written  in  the  philosophy  of  this  age,  and,  still 
worse,  not  in  the  Christianity,  the  wide  humanity, 
which  is  of  mankind.  We  know  this  is  a  severe  judg- 
ment, and  wish  we  might  be  mistaken  in  pronouncing 
it,  but  such  are  the  facts. 

Mr.  Prescott  has  little  sympathy  with  the  natives. 
Marina,  unmarried  and  a  captive,  becomes  the  concu- 
bine of  Cortes,  a  married  man  and  a  conqueror.  Her 
religion  allowed  the  connection,  it  was  not  uncommon ; 
his  religion  forbade  it,  and  he  was  living  "  in  mortal 
sin."  She  seems  to  have  loved  him  truly  and  with  all 
her  heart.  To  him  she  was  a  useful  instrument,  per- 
sonally as  his  concubine,  politically  as  his  interpreter 
and  diplomatic  agent.  Mr.  Prescott  says,  "  she  had 
her  errors,  as  we  have  seen."  The  only  error  he  al- 
ludes to  was  her  connection  with  Cortes  not  held  un- 
lawful, against  nature  or  custom,  there ;  but  no  censure 
is  passed  on  Cortes,  though  he  had  a  wife  at  Cuba. 
When  his  wife  dies,  Marina  might  be  lawfully  mar- 
ried to  him,  if  he  would ;  she  had  borne  him  a  son,  the 
unfortunate  Don  Martin  Cortes.  But  he  did  not  want 
an  Indian  woman  for  his  wife,  whatever  might  be 
her  services,  her  love  for  him,  or  the  connection  be- 
tween them,  or  the  children  she  had  borne  him.  He 
must  wed  one  of  the  titled  dames  of  Spain,  daughter 


B64  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

of  the  Count  de  Aguilar,  beautiful  and  "  much 
younger  than  himself,"  and  Cortes  "  gave  Marina 
away  to  a  Castilian  knight,  Don  Juan  Xamarillo,  to 
whom  she  was  wedded  as  his  lawful  wife,"  says  Mr. 
Prescott,  who  makes  no  comment  on  this  transaction, 
and  does  not  even  mention  it  as  one  of  the  "  errors  " 
of  his  hero ! 

Mr.  Prescott  takes  sides  with  the  Spaniards,  passes 
over  much  of  their  cruelty  in  silence,  and  often  apolo- 
gizes for  what  he  relates,  suggesting  some  idle  cir- 
cumstance which  takes  off  the  edge  of  indignation 
from  the  reader,  careless,  superficial,  and  requiring  a 
moral  stimulus  from  his  instructor.  In  his  narrative 
he  degrades  the  Mexicans  fighting  for  their  homes  and 
the  altars  of  their  gods,  not  less  fondly  cherished  than 
the  homes  and  the  faith  of  Christians.  The  Spaniards 
are  brave,  chivalrous,  heroic.  Their  victims,  he  tells 
us,  "  filled  the  air  with  wild  cries  and  bowlings  like  a 
herd  of  ravenous  wolves  disappointed  of  their  prey." 
In  the  attack  on  Mexico,  a  Spanish  ensign  narrowly 
escaped  falling  into  the  hands  of  his  foe :  "  The  bar- 
barians," says  Mr.  Prescott,  "  set  up  a  cry  of  dis- 
appointed rage."  Again,  at  sight  of  the  enemy  and 
of  the  sacrifice  of  prisoners  going  on  in  the  temple, 
the  Mexicans   "  like  vultures  maddened  by  the   smell 

of  distant  carrion, set  up  a  piercing 

cry."  The  efforts  of  Guatemozin  to  defend  his  capi- 
tal were  "  menaces  and  macliinations ;  "  the  Mexicans 
"  raged  with  impotent  anger,  as  they  beheld  their 
lordly  edifices,  their  temples,  all  they  had  been  accus- 
tomed to  venerate,  thus  swept  away."  If  we  remember 
aright,  the  Jews  mourned  a  little  when  Zion  was  trod- 
den under  foot  of  the  nations,  but  we  should  not  envy 
the   heart    of   the   historian    who   should    say    of   the 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  265 

Jeremiahs  of  that  time,  that  they  "  raged  with  Impo- 
tent anger."  Even  Cortes  thought  It  a  sad  sight 
(Que  era  lastlma  clerto  de  lo  ver),  "  but  we  were  forced 
to  it."  When  driven  to  despair,  some  Mexicans, 
valiant  as  Leonldas, 

"  in  the  public  breach  devoted  stood, 
And  for  their  country's  cause  were  prodigal  of  blood." 

They  would  not  ask  for  mercy ;  Mr.  Prescott  says  they 
"  glared  on  the  invaders  with  the  sullen  ferocity  of 
the  wounded  tiger,  that  the  huntsman  has  tracked  to 
his  forest  cave."  Even  the  heroism  of  Guatemozin 
is  only  a  "  haughty  spirit." 

The  Spaniards  established  a  form  of  slavery  worse 
than  that  of  the  heathens.  If  the  Mexicans  did  little 
for  their  vassals  —  what  did  their  conquerors  do.f* 
Mr.  Prescott  passes  over  the  horrors  of  the  slavery 
established  there ;  excuses  the  founders  for  their  of- 
fense :  Columbus  had  done  the  same !  "  Three 
Hieronymite  friars  and  an  eminent  Jesuit,  all  men  of 
learning  and  unblemished  piety,"  were  sent  out  to 
investigate  the  condition  of  the  natives.  They  justi- 
fied slavery ;  the  Indians  would  not  work  without  com- 
pulsion, unless  they  worked,  they  would  not  be  con- 
nected with  the  whites,  and  without  that  connection 
would  not  be  "  converted,"  and  of  course  not  "  saved." 
Slavery,  therefore,  was  their  only  road  to  escape 
damnation.  We  must  confess  our  amazement  that  a 
man  of  liberal  culture,  in  the  midst  of  a  Christian 
country,  writing  of  such  cruelties  as  the  Spaniards 
practiced  on  their  victims,  reducing  millions  of  freemen 
to  such  a  condition,  should  have  no  more  condemna- 
tion for  such  atrocities.  How  shall  we  explain  the 
fact.''  Can  it  be  that  the  commercial  atmosphere  of 
Boston  had  stifled  the  natural  and  nobler  breath  of 
yhe  historian.''     We  know  not. 


266  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

There  was  one  Spaniard  who  steadfastly  opposed  the 
enslaving  of  the  Indians  —  the  Dominican  Las  Casas, 
a  man  who  all  his  life  sought  continually  one  great 
end,  the  welfare  of  the  Indians.  Mr.  Prescott  be- 
stows well-deserved  encomiums  upon  him ;  often  praises 
him,  yet  we  think  he  is  the  only  author  of  all  whom 
Mr.  Prescott  quotes  that  can  complain  of  the  smallest 
injustice  at  his  hands. 

It  now  remains  to  speak  briefly  of  the  form  of  the 
work.  The  division  into  books  and  chapters  is  suffi- 
ciently good.  The  style  is  clear  and  simple,  though 
a  little  less  carefully  labored  than  in  his  earlier  work. 
The  references  are  abundant,  and,  so  far  as  we  have 
examined  them,  distinguished  by  the  same  accuracy 
which  we  noticed  in  the  former  history.  Occasionally 
there  is  a  little  harmless  pedantry.  Thus  in  the  text, 
he  says  that  Cortes  told  his  men  to  aim  at  the  faces 
of  the  foe,  and  in  the  margin  quotes  Lucan  to  remind 
us  that  the  veterans  of  Csesar  hit  the  dandies  of  Pom- 
pey's  army  in  the  same  way.  But  such  things  are 
rare,  and  by  no  means  disagreeable. 

He  often  refers  events  tO'  Providence  which  other 
men  would  be  content  with  ascribing  to  human  agency. 
Thus  he  says,  "  it  was  beneficiently  ordered  by  Provi- 
dence that  the  land  [of  the  Mexicans]  should  be  de- 
livered over  to  another  race,  who  would  rescue  it  from 
the  brutish  superstitions  that  daily  extended  wider  and 
wider."  But  in  the  same  manner  "  it  was  beneficently 
ordered  by  Providence  "  that  merchant  ships  should 
be  delivered  over  to  Admiral  Drake  or  Captain  Kidd; 
that  the  Indians  of  Massachusetts  should  butcher  the 
white  men  at  Deerfield,  and  the  whites  should  carry 
the  head  of  King  Philip  on  a  pole  into  Plymouth  and 
sell  his  family  into  slavery.     Again,  speaking  of  Cor- 


i 


PRESCOTT'S  MEXICO  267 

tes,  he  tells  us  "  Providence  reserved  him  for  higher 
ends,"  and  that  he  .was  "  the  instrument  selected  by 
Providence  to  scatter  terror  among  the  barbarian  mon- 
archs  of  the  western  world,  and  lay  their  empires  in  the 
dust."  Montezuma,  "  was  the  sad  victim  of  destiny." 
But  all  this  providential  action  is  in  behalf  of  the 
invaders.      Causa  victrix  placet  diis. 

The  figures  of  speech  are  commonplace ;  we  do  not 
remember  one  that  is  original,  except  that  already 
quoted,  in  which  the  Mexicans  are  compared  to  "  vul- 
tures maddened  by  the  smell  of  distant  carrion."  Few 
of  them  are  elegant  or  expressive  enough  to  deepen 
the  impression  of  the  simple  statement  of  the  fact. 
One  figure,  to  '  spread  like  wild-fire,"  which  is  a 
favorite  in  the  History  of  Spain,  appears  also  and 
frequently  in  this  work.  Others  are  poor  and  com- 
mon :  —  to  crowd  "  like  a  herd  of  deer,"  or  a  "  herd  of 
wolves ;  "  to  be  "  pale  as  death ;  "  to  "  rush  like  a 
torrent ;  "  to  swarm  "  like  famished  harpies ;  "  and  to 
be  led  "  like  sheep  to  the  slaughter."  They  add  little 
to  the  freshness  or  beauty  of  the  style,  and  do  not 
impress  us  very  forcibly  with  the  originality  of  the 
author. 


VI 

HILDRETH'S  UNITED  STATES 

At  the  present  day  the  United  States  present  one 
of  the  most  interesting  and  important  political  phe- 
nomena ever  offered  in  the  history  of  mankind.  Eng- 
land has  planted  her  colonies  in  New  Holland,  in  New 
Zealand,  in  the  East  and  the  West  Indies,  at  Cape  Good 
Hope,  and  at  Labrador;  at  Mauritius,  Gibraltar,  and 
in  the  Islands  of  the  Pacific.  She  has  forced  an  en- 
trance into  China ;  she  longs  to  get  firm  footing  in 
Sorneo  and  Nicaragua.  Wheresoever  her  children 
wander  they  carry  the  seed  out  of  which  British  insti- 
tutions are  sure  to  grow ;  institutions,  however,  which 
never  produce  their  like,  but  nobler  and  better  on  an- 
other soil.  Omitting  all  mention  of  Ireland,  America 
\Vas  the  oldest  of  these  colonies,  the  first  to  detach  itself 
from  the  parent  stem,  and  is  perhaps  the  prophecy 
of  what  most  of  the  others  are  destined  to  become. 

It  must  be  a  vigorous  tribe  of  men  which  can  hold 
so  vast  a  portion  of  the  earth  while  themselves  are  so 
few  in  numbers.  Three  hundred  years  ago,  in  the 
reign  of  Edward  VI.,  England  was  a  third-rate  power 
in  Europe.  Her  population  was  less  than  three  mil- 
lions, her  exports  were  trifling,  and  consisted  of  the 
raw  materials  of  her  clumsy  agriculture  and  her  min- 
eral treasures,  which  the  Tyrians  had  traversed  the 
ocean  to  purchase  two  thousand  years  before.  Her 
soil  could  hardly  raise  a  salad.  Scotland  was  inde- 
pendent, Ireland  not  wholly  subject  to  English  rule, 
Wales  had  but  lately  been  added  to  her  realm.      She 

S68 


HILDRETH  269 

was  remarkable  chiefly  for  the  stormy  seas  which  girt 
the  isle,  and  the  chalky  cliffs  along  her  shore,  for  the 
fogs  that  cover  it,  for  the  rudeness  of  her  inhabi- 
tants and  the  tough  valor  of  her  soldiers.  Now,  in 
three  hundred  years,  England  contains  some  seventeen 
millions  of  inhabitants,  Scotland  and  Ireland  ten  mil- 
lions more.  Russia,  Austria,  and  France  are  the 
only  nations  in  Europe  that  outnumber  her  in  popu- 
lation. Turkey,  with  nine  millions,  and  Spain,  with 
twelve,  are  powerless  beside  her.  Her  ships  are  in 
all  the  oceans  of  the  world,  the  sun  never  sets  on  her 
flag;  her  subjects  capture  the  whale  at  Baffin's  Bay, 
and  the  elephant  in  India ;  they  sport  at  hunting  lions 
in  South  Africa.  Her  navigators,  with  scientific 
hardihood,  explore  each  corner  of  the  Northern  Sea, 
or  locked  in  ice  wait  the  slow  hand  of  death,  or  the 
slower  sun  of  an  arctic  summer.  She  has  climes  too 
cold  for  reindeer ;  climes  too  hot  almost  for  the  sugar- 
cane and  the  pine-apple ;  the  lean  larch  of  Scotland, 
and  the  banyan-tree  of  Hindoostan,  both  grow  in  the 
same  empire.  Esquimaux,  Gaboon,  and  Sanscrit  are 
tongues  subject  to  Britain.  At  least  an  eighth  part  of 
the  men  now  living  in  the  world  owe  allegiance  to 
the  queen   of  that  little  island. 

Her  children  came  to  America  when  the  nation  was  in 
all  the  vigor  of  its  most  rapid  growth.  The  progress 
of  their  descendants  in  population  and  in  wealth 
has  been  wthout  parallel.  Two  hundred  and  fifty 
years  ago  there  was  not  an  English  settler  in  the 
United  States ;  now  the  population  is  not  far  from 
two-and-twenty  millions ;  two  thirds  of  the  people  are 
of  English  origin.  The  increase  of  property  has  been 
more  rapid  than  that  of  numbers.  In  fifty  years 
Boston  has  multiplied  her  inhabitants  nearly  five-fold, 


270  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

and  her  property  more  than  twenty-five  fold  in  the 
same  time.  The  increase  of  intelHgence  is  very  re- 
markable, and  probably  surpasses  that  of  property. 

The  Americans  are  now  trying  a  political  experi- 
ment which  has  hitherto  been  looked  on  with  great 
suspicion  and  even  horror.  Here  is  a  democracy  on 
a  large  scale,  a  church  without  a  bishop,  a  state  with- 
out a  king ;  society  ( in  the  free  states )  without  the 
theoretical  distinction  of  patrician  and  plebian. 
What  is  more  surprising,  the  experiment  succeeds  bet- 
ter than  its  most  sanguine  friends  ever  dared  to  hope. 
The  evils  which  were  apprehended  have  not  yet  befallen 
us.  The  "  Red  Republic,"  ^  which  hostile  prophets 
foretold,  has  not  come  to  pass ;  there  are  "  red " 
monarchies,  enough  of  them,  the  other  side  of  the 
world,  born  red ;  doomed,  we  fear,  to  die  in  that  sad 
livery  of  woe ;  but  in  America  the  person  of  the  citi- 
zen is  still  respected  quite  as  much  as  in  Austria  and 
England ;  and  nowhere  in  the  world  is  property  safer 
or  so  much  honored,  the  lovers  of  liberty  here  are 
lovers  of  order  as  its  condition.  Even  Mr.  Carlyle, 
accustomed  to  speak  of  America  with  bitterness  and 
contempt,  and  of  the  ballot-box  with  loathing  and 
nausea,  confesses  to  the  success  of  the  experiment  so 
far  as  wealth  and  numbers  are  concerned.  Indeed, 
it  is  a  mater  of  rejoicing  to  warm-hearted  men,  that 
we  have  cotton  to  cover  and  corn  to  feed  the  thousands 
of  exiles  who  yearly  are  driven  by  hunger  from  Eng- 
land, to  seek  a  home  or  a  grave  on  the  soil  of  America. 
It  is  interesting  to  study  the  growth  of  the  American 
people ;  to  observe  the  progress  of  the  idea  on  which 
the  government  rests,  and  the  attempts  to  make  the 
idea  an  institution. 

This    is    one   of   the    few    great   nations   which   can 


HILDRETH  271 

trace  its  history  back  to  certain  beginnings ;  there  is 
no  fabulous  period  in  our  annuals,  no  mythical  centuries 
when 

Oi  TrpuTa  iJ.ev  ^Xeirovres  U^XeTTOv  /jLaTTjv^ 
'KXvovres  ov/c  tjKovov'   dXX'   oveipaTiiiv 
'  AXiyKiOL  /xopcpalcri,  tov  fiaKpov  xpoi'Oi' 
"  ^(pvpop  eiK^  TcavTa^  Kovre  irXiv^vcpeli 
AofjLovs  irpoaeiXovs  ijaaf^  ov  ^vXovpyCav' 
Karwpi'xes  5'  evaiov^  ware  arjavpoL 
M.vpiJ.r]Kes,  avrpuv  eu  (ivxols  avrjXiois, 

To  be  rightly  appreciated,  American  history  re- 
quires to  be  written  by  a  democrat.  A  theocrat 
would  condemn  our  institutions  for  lacking  an  es- 
tablished church  with  its  privileged  priesthood ;  an 
aristocrat,  for  the  absence  of  conventional  nobility. 
MiHtary  men  might  sneer  at  the  smallness  of  the  army 
and  navy ;  and  aesthetic  men  deplore  the  want  of  a 
splendid  court,  the  lack  of  operatic  and  other  spec- 
tacles in  the  large  towns.  The  democrat  looks  for  the 
substantial  welfare  of  the  people,  and  studies  America 
with  reference  to  that  point.  At  present,  America  is 
not  remarkable  for  her  literature  or  her  art ;  she  has 
made  respectable  advances  in  science,  but  her  indus- 
trial works  and  her  political  institutions  are  by  far 
her  most  remarkable  achievements  hitherto.  We  are 
not  sanguine  enough  to  suppose  that  all  the  advan- 
tages of  all  the  other  forms  of  government  are  to  be 
secured  in  this,  but  jet  trust  that  the  most  valuable 
things  will  be  preserved  here.  In  due  time,  we  doubt 
not,  the  higher  results  of  civilization  will  appear,  and 
we  shall  estimate  the  greatness  of  the  nation  not  merely 
by  its  numbers,  its  cotton,  its  cattle,  and  its  corn. 
But  "  that  is  not  first  which  is  spiritual."  First  of 
all,  the  imperious  wants  of  the  body  must  be  attended 
to, —  the  woods  are  to  be  felled,  the  log-cabins  built, 
the  corn  got  into  the  ground,  the  wild  beasts  destroyed, 


272  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

the  savages  kept  at  peace.  There  must  be  many  gen- 
erations between  the  woodsman  who  erects  the  first 
shanty  of  logs,  and  the  poet  who  sheds  immortal 
beauty  on  logs  and  lumberers.  Were  there  not  ages 
between  the  wooden  hut  of  Arcadian  Pelasgos  in 
Greece  and  the  Parthenon?  From  mythical  Cecrops 
to  Aristophanes  the  steps  are  many,  each  a  generation. 
The  genius  of  liberty  only  asks  two  things  —  time 
and  space.  Space  enough  she  has,  all  America  is  be- 
fore her ;  time  she  takes  possession  of  fast  enough,  only 
a  second  at  once;  and  in  the  course  of  ages  we  think 
she  will  make  her  mark  on  the  world.  Up  to  this 
time  the  achievements  of  America  are,  taken  as  a  whole, 
such  as  we  need  not  blush  at.  Some  things  there  were 
and  are  to  be  ashamed  of  —  not  of  the  whole.  That 
dreadful  blot  of  slavery  remains  yet,  an  Ireland  in 
America ;  among  the  whites,  on  the  one  hand,  causing 
the  most  shameful  poltroonery  which  modern  times 
can  redden  at,  and  on  the  other,  calling  forth  heroism 
that  seems  almost  enough  to  redeem  the  wickedness 
which  has  brought  it  to  light.  But,  turning  to  that 
half  of  the  nation  free  from  direct  personal  contact 
with  this  sin  of  the  state,  forgetting  for  a  moment  the 
foolishness  of  "  political  sages,"  the  cowardice  of  those 
leaders  who  never  dare  enact  justice  as  a  statute,  but 
take  the  responsibility  of  making  iniquity  a  law,  and 
omitting  the  defalcation  of  men  who  forsake  their 
habitual  worship  of  a  calf  of  gold,  to  bow  down  before 
a  face  of  dough,"  — there  is  certainly  a  gratifying 
spectacle.  Here  are  some  fifteen  millions  of  free  men 
trying  the  voluntary  system  in  church  and  state,  richer 
than  any  other  people  of  the  same  numbers  in  the 
world,  and  with  the  aggregate  wealth  of  the  nation 
more    equally    distributed;    a    nation    well    fed,    well 


I 


HILDRETH  273 

clothed,  well  housed,  industrious,  temperate,  well  gov- 
erned, and  respecting  one  another  and  themselves ; 
that  certainly  is  something.  In  all  that  territory 
there  are  probably  more  muskets  in  the  hands  of  pri- 
vate men  than  there  are  habitations,  yet  not  one  is 
kept  for  actual  defense ;  and  through  the  free  states 
no  soldier  walks  abroad  with  loaded  gun ;  only  in  the 
large  towns  is  there  a  visible  police.  There  are  not 
two  thousand  soldiers  of  the  state  in  all  that  terri- 
tory, and  they  are  as  inoffensive  to  the  citizens  as  the 
scare-crows  in  the  field,  only  not  so  useful,  nor  so 
well  paying  for  their  keep.  Of  this  population  some 
three  millions  are  in  the  public  schools,  academies,  and 
colleges.  Nowhere  are  churches  so  numerous  or  so 
well  attended ;  nowhere  such  indications  of  happiness, 
comfort,  intelligence,  morality  among  the  mass  of  men. 
This,  we  repeat,  is  something.  We  have  no  very  great 
men ;  we  have  never  had  such.  An  Alexander,  a  Caesar, 
a  Charlemagne,  a  Napoleon,  we  have  not  had.  Perhaps 
we  never  shall ;  but  it  is  hardly  worth  while  to  go  into 
mourning  yet  for  the  absence  of  such.  Great  artists, 
poets,  philosophers,  men  of  letters,  we  have  not  had, 
hitherto.  We  have  shown  no  great  respect  for  such, 
to  our  shame  be  it  spoken ;  but  in  due  time  we  may 
trust  that  they  also  will  come  and  shine  for  ages, 
with  the  halo  of  genius  around  their  brow.  However, 
it  does  seem  a  little  remarkable  that  in  America  every- 
thing seems  to  be  done  democratically  —  by  the-  com- 
bined force  of  many  men  with  moderate  abilities,  and 
not  by  one  man  of  Herculean  powers.  It  was  so  in 
the  early  periods  of  the  nation ;  so  in  the  Revolution, 
and  so  now.  It  has  always  been  so  with  the  Teutonic 
tribes  of  men,  much  more  than  with  the  nations  from 

the   Semitic  stock.     With  them  there  comes  a  Moses 
11—18 


274  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

or  a  Mahomet  who  overrides  a  nation  for  one  or  two 
thousand  years,  and  its  progress  seems  to  be  by  a 
series  of  leaps ;  while  the  western  nations,  with  less 
nationalism,  and  more  individualism,  accomplish  less 
in  that  way,  but  slope  upwards  by  a  more  gradual  as- 
cent. In  the  English  Revolution  there  was  no  one  great 
man  who  condensed  the  age  into  himself,  and  created 
the  institutions  of  coming  generations,  as  Moses  and 
Mahomet  have  done;  spite  of  the  great  abilities  and 
great  services  of  Cromwell,  no  just  historian  will  claim 
that  for  him.  It  was  so  in  the  American  Revolution, 
so  in  the  French.  Washington  led  our  armies,  and 
Napoleon  the  legions  of  France,  but  neither  gave  the 
actors  the  idea  which  was  slowly  or  suddenly  to  be 
realized  in  institutions. 

It  is  an  interesting  work  to  trace  the  growth  of  the 
American  people  from  their  humble  beginnings  to 
their  present  condition ;  to  discover  and  point  out  the 
causes  which  have  helped  that  growth,  and  the  causes 
which  have  hindered  it.  To  a  pliilosophical  historian 
this  is  no  unpromising  field ;  the  facts  are  well  known ; 
it  is  easy  to  ascertain  the  ideas  out  of  which  the  gen- 
eral political  institutions  of  America  have  grown ;  it 
is  not  difficult  to  see  the  historical  causes  which  have 
modified  these  institutions,  giving  them  their  present 
character  and  form.  None  but  a  democrat  can  thor- 
oughly appreciate  that  history.  As  the  history  of 
Christianity  must  be  written  by  a  Christian  who  can 
write  from  within,  and  the  history  of  art  by  a  man 
with  an  artistic  soul,  so  must  the  history  of  America 
be  written  by  a  democrat  —  we  mean  one  who  puts 
man  before  the  accidents  of  man,  valuing  his  permanent 
nature  more  than  the  transient  results  of  his  history. 

American  history  up  to  the  adoption  of  the  Federal 


HILDRETH  275 

Constitution  forms  a  whole,  and  has  a  certain  unity 
which  is  not  obvious  at  first  sight.  The  several  col- 
onies were  getting  established,  learning  to  stand  alone ; 
they  were  quite  unlike  in  their  origin,  form  of  gov- 
ernment, ecclesiastical  and  other  institutions.  Very 
different  ideas  prevailed  in  Georgia  and  New  Hamp- 
shire. Looked  at  carelessly  they  seem  only  divergent; 
but  when  studied  carefully  it  seems  as  if  there  was 
a  regular  plan,  and  as  if  the  whole  was  calculated  to 
bring  about  the  present  result.  No  doubt  there  was 
such  a  cancatenation  of  part  with  part,  only  the  plan 
lay  in  God,  not  in  the  mind  of  Oglethorpe  and  Cap- 
tain Smith,  of  Carver  and  Roger  WiUiams. 

Considering  this  history  as  an  organic  whole,  to 
treat  it  philosophically  it  seems  to  us  it  is  necessary 
to  describe  the  material  theatre  on  which  this  historic 
drama  is  to  be  acted  out ;  to  describe  the  American 
continent,  telling  of  its  extent  and  peculiarities  in 
general,  its  soil,  climate,  and  natural  productions,  and 
its  condition  at  the  time  when  the  white  men  first 
landed  on  its  shores ;  this,  of  course,  comprises  a  de- 
scription of  the  inhabitants  at  that  time  in  possession 
of  its  soil. 

Then  the  historian  is  to  tell  us  of  the  men  who 
came  here  to  found  this  empire ;  of  their  origin,  their 
character,  and  their  history  in  general.  He  is  to  tell 
the  external  causes  which  brought  them  here  or  the 
motives  which  impelled  them,  and  the  ideas  which  they 
brought,  as  well  as  those  which  sprung  up  under  their 
new  circumstances.  Next,  he  is  to  show  speculatively 
by  the  idea,  and  practically  by  the  facts,  how  these 
ideas  worked  under  the  new  conditions  of  the  people ; 
how  they  acted  on  circumstances  and  circumstances  on 
them,  and  what  institutions   came  thereof.     The  his- 


276  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

torian  very  poorly  performs  his  duty  who  merely  re- 
lates the  succession  of  rulers,  the  increase  or  diminution 
of  wealth  and  numbers,  the  coming  on  of  wars,  and  the 
termination  thereof,  the  rise  of  great  men,  with  their 
decline  and  fall,  and  the  presence  of  institutions,  with- 
out telling  of  the  ideas  they  represented.  Showing 
the  continual  growth  of  the  ideas  which  create  the 
institutions  is  little  more  than  the  work  of  an  annalist 
or  chronicler. 

If  a  great  idea  appears  in  human  affairs,  founding 
new  institutions  and  overturning  the  old,  it  is  part 
of  the  work  of  a  philosophical  historian  to  give  us 
the  story  of  this  idea ;  to  refer  it  back  to  its  origin  in 
the  permanent  nature  of  man,  or  the  accidents  of  his 
development ;  to  show  the  various  attempts  to  make 
the  thought  a  thing,  and  the  idea  a  fact.  Such  is 
the  case  in  American  history ;  political  institutions 
were  set  agoing  here  radically  unlike  any  others  in  the 
world.  True,  we  may  find  points  of  agreement  be- 
tween the  American  and  various  European  govern- 
ments. The  trial  by  jury  dates  far  back  beyond  the 
"  gray  goose  "  code,  and  has  its  origin  in  remote  an- 
tiquity ;  the  habeas  corpus  is  doubtless  of  English 
origin,  and  its  history  may  be  read  in  Hallam,  and 
elsewhere ;  the  notion  of  delegates  to  represent  corpora- 
tions or  republics  may  have  originated  with  the  early 
Christians,  who  sent  their  ministers  and  other  servants 
(or  masters)  to  some  provincial  synod;  the  idea  of 
individual  liberty,  the  sacredness  of  the  person  before 
the  state,  may  be  traced  to  the  wilds  of  Germany  long 
before  the  time  of  Christ.  We  know  how  much  of 
American  freedom  may  be  found  in  Sir  John  For- 
tescue's  Laudation  of  the  laws  of  England,  or  in  the 
books  of  Moses,  if  we  will ;  but  yet  the  American  gov- 


HILDRETH  277 

ernment  in  nation,  state,  and  town  is  an  original 
thing.  The  parts  are  old,  many  of  them,  but  the 
whole  is  the  most  original  thing  that  can  be  found  in 
the  political  history  of  the  world  for  many  an  age. 
Almost  every  special  and  true  moral  precept  of  the 
New  Testament  may  be  found  in  some  heathen  or 
Hebrew  writer  before  Jesus,  but  yet,  spite  of  that, 
Christianity  was  an  original  form  of  religion,  as  much 
so  as  the  statue  of  a  goddess  which  a  Grecian  sculptor 
gathered  by  a  grand  electicism  from  five  hundred  Spar- 
tan maids,  corrected  by  the  ideal  in  his  own  creative 
and  critical  mind. 

You  trace  the  secret  cause  of  the  American  institu- 
tions far  off  in  the  history  of  mankind.  Here  it  is 
a  dim  sentiment  in  the  breast  of  the  German  in  the 
Hercynian  forest ;  then  again  it  burns  in  the  bosom 
of  the  Christian,  and  he  tells  the  world  that  God  is 
no  respecter  of  persons,  that  Jew  and  Gentile  are  alike 
to  him.  But  it  leads,  at  first,  to  no  political  conse- 
quences ;  even  its  ecclesiastical  results  are  trifling,  and 
its  social  consequences  at  first  of  small  moment.  It 
could  not  make  St.  Paul  hostile  to  personal  Roman 
slavery.  In  the  middle  ages  you  trace  the  path  of  this 
idea.  Sometimes  it  goes  over  the  mountain  side,  and 
is  seen  amid  the  works  of  great  men,  but  commonly 
it  winds  along  in  the  low  valleys  of  human  life ;  a 
little  path,  known  only  to  the  people,  and  worn  by 
their  feet,  not  knowing  whither  it  leads  them ;  a  by- 
path for  the  vassal,  not  the  highway  which  the  baron 
and  prelate  took  care  to  have  in  order.  The  record 
of  its  existence  is  found  in  the  song  of  the  peasant  or 
in  the  popular  proverb,  in  some  fabulous  legend  of 
unhistorical  times, —  times  that  never  were, —  or  in 
the  predictions  of  days  to  come.     This  idea  has  not  a 


278  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

place  in  the  pulpit  of  the  minister;  but  in  the  silent 
cell  of  the  devout  mystic  it  has  its  dwelling-place,  and 
gladdens  his  enraptured  heart  as  a  vision  of  the  king- 
dom of  heaven. 

Now  it  waxes  mighty,  and  contends  against  the  op- 
pression of  tyrannical  men,  less  in  the  state  than  in 
the  church.  Fast  as  it  becomes  an  idea  men  organize 
it  as  well  as  they  can,  now  in  little  convents  or  mon- 
asteries, then  in  trading  companies ;  then  in  guilds 
of  mechanics ;  in  cities  and  small  states,  as  in  Italy 
and  in  the  Low  Countries,  in  Switzerland,  and  the 
Hanse  towns.  At  length  this  impulse  —  it  was  hardly 
an  idea  —  puts  all  Europe  into  commotion.  Men  call 
for  spiritual  freedom.  Under  the  guidance  of  that 
great  spirit  who  stands  as  the  water-shed  between  the 
middle  ages  and  modern  times,  feeling  the  contradic- 
tions of  a  divided  age  under  Martin  Luther,  men 
break  the  yoke  of  ecclesiastical  tyranny  they  have 
borne  so  long.  Liberty  of  conscience  was  all  mankind 
called  for,  but  for  that  time  they  must  put  up  with 
liberty  of  conscience  limited  on  the  divine  side  by  the 
Bible,  on  the  human  side  by  the  king.  Strait  and  op- 
pressive limits  both  proved  to  be, —  bonds  that  ap- 
proached nearer  and  threatened  to  crush  the  strug- 
gling soul.  Still  men  were  not  satisfied ;  they  wanted 
political  liberty  as  Avell  as  spiritual,  and  of  spiritual 
much  more  than  they  got.  How  rapidly  the  idea  of  a 
free  state  got  abroad  over  Europe.  Bodinus,  in  his 
Republic ;  Thomas  More,  in  his  Utopia ;  Bacon,  in  his 
New  Atlantis, —  very  undemocratic  men  at  the  best, 
- —  are  witnesses  to  the  power  of  this  demand.  The 
sentiment  had  long  been  in  men's  hearts ;  it  was  now 
rapidly  becoming  an  idea.  Kings  and  priests  told 
men  the  less  liberty  they  had  the  better;  if  they  tried 


HILDRETH  279 

to  go  alone  they  would  certainly  fall.  Was  it  not 
better  to  sit  on  the  hearth  of  the  king,  their  head 
under  the  apron  of  the  church,  than  thus  try  to  walk 
in  the  open  air?  There  was  good  and  bad  scripture 
for  such  a  course ;  and  of  precedents  the  world  was 
full.  But  men  would  not  be  satisfied  ;  the  king's  hearth 
was  warm,  and  the  motherly  apron  of  the  church  made 
the  head  easy  and  comfortable,  but  there  was  a  divine 
soul  in  man  which  would  break  out  into  all  sorts  of 
peasant  wars,  of  Jack  Cade's  rebellions,  of  Runymedes 
and  the  like.  At  length  the  idea  gets  so  fully  set 
forth,  as  an  idea,  and  so  widely  spread  abroad  by 
fanatics  and  among  sober  men  that  the  chief  question 
is,  Where  shall  the  idea  first  become  a  fact?  Shall 
it  be  in  Germany,  where  the  ecclesiastical  Reforma- 
tion began  and  succeeded  most?  No,  the  feudal  sys- 
tem had  taken  deep  root  in  the  Teutonic  soil,  and  could 
not  be  pulled  up  for  some  ages  to  come ;  the  Reforma- 
tion had  affected  thought  in  all  departments  in  Ger- 
many, but  politics  suffered  little  change,  and  by  that 
little  it  does  not  appear  that  the  people  were  directly 
gainers  to  any  considerable  degree.  Could  it  be  in 
France?  There  was  a  body  of  enlightened  men  taking 
the  lead  in  European  science  and  literature,  but  there 
was  no  intelligence  in  the  people.  They  seemed  subjects 
of  authority,  not  subjects  of  reason,  and  though  they 
now  and  then  gave  indication  of  the  sentiment  for 
fredom,  which  has  since  become  so  mighty  in  that  na- 
tion, yet  then  no  idea  of  it  swept  through  the  land, 
stirring  the  tree-tops,  and  agitating  the  grass  and  the 
very  dust.  In  France  there  was  a  gorgeous  court,  a 
wealthy  king;  nobles,  rich,  famous,  and  of  long-re- 
nowned descent ;  there  were  soldiers  with  genius  and 
skill,    merchants    and    artists    and    clergymen,    from 


g80  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Abbe  Jean  to  Cardinal  Richelieu,  but  there  was  no 
people  to  appreciate  or  desire  freedom.  In  Spain  no 
one  would  think  of  free  institutions ;  the  mind  of  the 
nation,  chained  by  the  state  and  palsied  by  the  church, 
had  only  life  enough  left  for  mere  external  things, 
for  gold  and  sugar ;  even  her  European  possessions 
she  could  not  hold  against  the  vigor  of  Protestant 
Dutchmen.  Italy  had  given  lessons  in  commerce,  arts, 
literature,  religion,  and  politics  to  all  the  rest  of 
Europe.  In  the  dark  ages  she  had  kept  the  holy  fire 
of  science  and  of  literature,  covered  in  the  ashes  of 
old  renown,  and  when  occasion  offered  raked  the  em- 
bers, with  her  garment  fanning  them  to  a  flame,  and 
sent  little  sparks  thereof  to  Scotland,  Ireland,  Eng- 
land, and  to  all  the  north.  While  despotism  laid  his 
iron  rod  on  all  the  north  of  Europe,  and  the  center  too, 
little  commonwealths  sprung  up  at  practical  Venice, 
at  prudent  Pisa,  and  at  haughty  Florence,  as  a  poet 
calls  them ;  green  gardens  were  they  in  a  snowy  world, 
filled  with  many  a  precious  plant.  But  these,  too, 
had  declined.  Art,  literature,  science,  "  la  hella 
scienza,^^  the  sweet  art  of  poesy,  had  flourished  there, 
but  the  nature  of  liberty  craved  another  soil.  The 
Reformation,  which  winnowed  the  nations  with  a 
rough  wind,  did  not  separate  the  wheat  from  the  chaff 
in  Italy.  The  priests  were  too  powerful,  the  people 
too  indolent ;  the  chaff  is  so  thick,  and  dry  withal, 
that  the  poor  wheat  can  germinate  but  slowly. 

"Ay!  down  to  the  dust  with  them,  slaves  as  they  are," 

might  well  be  said  of  Italy  in  the  end  of  the  six- 
teenth century.  Other  vineyards  she  had  helped  to 
plant,  but  her  own  she  had  not  kept.  The  last  ser- 
vice she  did  mankind  was,  perhaps,  the  greatest:  she 


HILDRETH  281 

showed  them  a  new  and  savage  world  beyond  the  fabled 
island  of  Atlantis  in  the  West.  Columbus  and 
Amerigo,  Verrazani  and  the  Cabots,  were  pioneers  of 
freedom  for  mankind.  When  Columbus  turned  his 
bark's  head  to  the  West,  he  little  knew  that  he  was 
leading  the  nations  to  universal  democracy ;  but  so  it 
seems  now. 

The  new  idea  must  come  across  the  water  to  make 
its  fortune.  To  escape  the  persecution  of  the  dragon 
with  seven  heads  and  ten  horns,  the  man-child  must 
flee  with  his  mother  into  the  wilderness  and  there  so- 
journ, said  our  fathers,  giving  a  "  private  interpreta- 
tion "  to  a  dark  "  prophecy ; "  at  any  rate,  the 
American  "  earth  helped  the  woman."  Here,  three 
thousand  miles  from  their  native  land,  out  of  the  reach 
of  old  aristocratic  institutions,  the  new  nation  could 
unfold  its  sentimental  to  an  idea,  could  develop  the 
idea  into  institutions ;  and,  trying  the  experiment  on 
a  small  scale  at  first,  prepare  to  found  a  great  empire 
on  the  American  idea  that  all  men  are  created  equal, 
and  endowed  by  their  Creator  with  certain  unalienable 
rights,  and  that  it  is  the  business  of  a  goverment  to 
preserve  for  each  man  the  perfect  enjoyment  of  all 
these  natural  rights,  on  the  sole  condition  that  he  does 
the  corresponding  duties. 

There  are  two  great  periods  of  human  history.  In 
the  one  men  seek  to  establish  unity  of  action,  and 
form  the  individuals  into  tribes  and  states.  This  is 
commonly  done  to  the  loss  of  personal  f  redom ;  the 
state  subdues  the  citizen,  and  he  becomes  the  subject 
merely.  In  religion  the  ante-christian  forms  repre- 
sent this  phase  of  men's  affairs,  and  in  politics  it  is 
indicated  by  aristocracies,  monarchies,  and  despotisms. 
Then   comes   the   second   great   period   of  history,   in 


282  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

which  men  seek  for  personal  freedom.  In  religion 
this  is  represented  by  Christianity,  not  the  Christianity 
of  the  Catholics  or  the  Protestants,  but  the  absolute 
religion  of  human  nature ;  in  politics,  by  a  democracy, 
the  government  of  all,  for  all,  and  by  all.  The  set- 
tlers of  America  in  coming  here  mainly  escaped  from 
the  institutions  of  the  former  period  of  history,  the 
institutions  which  once  helped  mankind  but  at  length 
hindered  them.  They  brought  with  them  the  senti- 
ments and  ideas  of  the  same  period,  imperfectly 
formed,  and  such  helps  and  institutions  as  had  pre- 
viously come  out  of  their  sentiments  and  ideas.  They 
came  from  a  nation  more  vigorous  in  the  arts  of  peace 
than  any  which  the  world  had  seen  before.  They  came 
from  that  nation  in  the  time  of  its  greatest  spiritual 
vigor.  They  brought  with  them  the  best  treasures 
of  the  private  spiritual  earnings  of  the  English  nation 
—  the  common  law,  the  habeas  corpus,  trial  by  jury, 
the  form  of  representative  government,  the  rich,  noble 
literature  of  England,  of  its  Elizabethan  age.  From 
the  general  spiritual  treasures  of  the  world  they 
brought  Christianity  and  the  experience  of  mankind 
for  five  or  six  thousand  years.  Virgin  America,  hid- 
den away  behind  the  Atlantic  and  Pacific  oceans,  is 
now  to  be  married  to  mankind. 

The  first  settlers  came  with  diflPerent  motives  and 
expectations,  driven  by  different  forms  of  necessity. 
There  came  two  types  of  men  quite  unlike  in  most 
important  particulars  —  the  settlers  of  the  North  and 
the  South,  the  Puritans  of  New  England,  the  secular 
and  more  worldly  planter  of  Virginia  and  the  Caro- 
linas.  They  came  from  different  motives,  for  a  dif- 
ferent purpose;  they  founded  different  institutions, 
which  produce  the  contradictory  results  we  now  see. 


HILDRETH  283 

The  difference  between  South  Carolina  and  INIassa- 
chusetts  in  1850  dates  plainly  back  to  the  different 
origin  of  the  two  colonies.  New  England  was  settled 
for  the  sake  of  an  idea ;  Virginia  and  the  Carolinas  by 
men  who  reasonably  thought  to  better  their  condi- 
tion and  make  their  fortune.  M.  Chevalier  ^  long  ago 
pointed  out  the  distinction  between  these  two  types, 
the  Puritan  and  the  Cavalier;  only  he  finds  a  distinc- 
tion in  birth,  wealth,  and  breeding  in  favor  of  the 
Cavalier,  which  he  w^ould  not  have  found  had  he  known 
American  history  somewhat  better.  However,  the  dif- 
ference between  the  secular  and  the  religious  colonies 
still  continues  in  the  descendants  of  the  two.  But 
these  types  unite  or  will  unite,  as  he  says,  to  form  a 
future  national  type,   namely   the  Western  man. 

Let  us  look  at  the  volumes  of  Mr.  Hildreth.  His 
work  is  divided  into  forty-eight  chapters,  and,  be- 
ginning with  the  first  voyage  of  Columbus,  ends  with 
the  election  of  the  first  President  after  the  adoption 
of  the  Federal  Constitution.  When  so  great  a  theme 
is  to  be  treated  in  the  small  compass  of  three  volumes, 
the  author  must  needs  be  brief ;  accordingly,  he 
despatches  quite  summarily  the  preliminary  matter, 
relating  to  the  discoveries  of  the  continent  by  the  Italian 
navigators,  and  briefly  sketches  a  picture  of  the  coun- 
try and  its  inhabitants  at  the  period  when  European 
colonization  first  began.  The  account  of  the  Indians 
is  short,  occupying  but  about  twenty  pages,  yet  dis- 
tinct and  clear ;  for  one  so  brief  it  is  the  best  account 
we  remember  to  have  seen.  The  whole  Indian  popula- 
tion within  the  limits  of  the  United  States  and  west 
of  the  Rocky  Mountains  he  thinks  never  exceeded,  if 
it  ever  reached,  three  hundred  thousand ;  others  make 
the   number   not   far   from   one   hundred   and   eighty 


284  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

thousand.  The  Indians  have  not  yet  received  the  at- 
tention which  they  demand  from  the  historian  and 
philosopher ;  they  are  as  remarkable  monuments  in  the 
development  of  the  human  race  as  the  fossils  are  in 
the  history  of  the  physical  changes  of  this  earth.  But 
they  are  passing  away ;  their  institutions,  manners,  tra- 
ditions, and  language  will  soon  be  forgotten,  and  by 
and  by  it  will  be  impossible  to  reconstruct  the  history 
of  which  they  furnish  so  valuable  a  chapter. 

Mr.  Hildreth  speaks  of  the  French  settlements  in 
America,  and  then  comes  to  the  history  of  the  English 
colonization  here.  For  a  long  time  there  is  an  ap- 
parent want  of  unity  in  the  subject,  which  no  his- 
torical treatment  can  wholly  disguise.  The  reader  is 
hurried  from  Virginia  to  New  England,  then  to  New 
York,  to  Maryland,  to  the  Carolinas,  to  Penns3-lvania, 
to  Delaware,  and  to  Georgia.  However,  for  a  long 
time  Virginia  and  New  England  are  the  objects  of 
chief  interest.  We  shall  dwell  chiefly  on  the  latter, 
and  call  the  attention  of  our  readers  to  some  things 
of  considerable  importance  in  the  story  of  America. 
The  character  of  the  Puritans  has  been  the  theme  of  un- 
qualified praise  and  unqualified  condemnation ;  the 
Puritan  of  Hume,  of  Macaulay,  and  of  Bancroft  are 
quite  different  characters.  Perhaps  no  one  of  these 
three  great  masters  of  the  art  of  history  has  given 
us  a  fair  and  just  likeness  of  the  men.  Mr.  Hildreth 
is  not  ambitious  in  his  attempt  to  defend  the  fathers 
of  New  England ;  he  rather  leaves  their  actions  to 
speak  for  themselves.  He  thus  speaks  of  them,  how- 
ever :  — 

"  As  the  other  traditions  of  the  church  fell  more  and  more 
into  contempt,  the  entire  reverence  of  the  people  was  concen- 
trated upon  the  Bible,  recently  made  accessible  in  an  English 
version,  and  read  with  eagerness,  not  as  a  mere  form  of  words 


I 


HILDRETH  285 

to  be  solemnly  and  ceremoniously  gone  through  with,  but  as  an 
inspired  revelation,  an  indisputable  authority  in  science,  poli- 
tics, morals,  life.  It  began,  indeed,  to  be  judged  necessary, 
b)'  the  more  ardent  and  sincere,  that  all  existing  institutions  in 
church  and  state,  all  social  relations,  and  the  habits  of  every- 
day life  should  be  reconstructed,  and  made  to  conform  to  this 
divine  model.  Those  who  entertained  these  sentiments  in- 
creased to  a  considerable  party,  composed  chiefly,  indeed,  of 
the  humbler  classes,  yeomen,  traders,  and  mechanics,  but  in- 
cluding, also,  clergjTnen,  merchants,  landed  proprietors,  and 
even  some  of  the  nobility.  They  were  derided  by  those  not  in- 
clined to  go  with  them  as  Puritans;  but  the  austerity  of  their 
lives  and  doctrines,  and  their  confident  claim  to  internal  as- 
surance of  a  second  birth  and  special  election  as  the  children 
of  God,  made  a  powerful  impression  on  the  multitude,  while 
the  high  schemes  they  entertained  for  the  reconstruction  of 
society  brought  them  into  sympathy  with  all  that  was  great 
and  heroic  in  the  nation. 

"  The  Puritans  denounced  the  church  ceremonies,  and  pres- 
ently the  hierarchy;  but  they  long  entertained  profound  rever- 
ence for  the  church  itself,  and  a  superstitious  terror  of  schism. 
Some  of  the  bolder  and  more  ardent,  whose  obscurity  gave 
them  courage,  took  at  length  the  decisive  step  of  renouncing 
the  English  communion,  and  setting  up  a  church  of  their  own, 
upon  what  they  conceived  to  be  the  Bible  model.  That,  how- 
ever, was  going  further  than  the  great  body  of  the  Puritans 
wished  or  dared  to  follow,  and  these  separatists  remained  for 
many  years  obscure  and  inconsiderable." 

There  are  certain  peculiarities  in  the  institutions 
they  at  first  founded,  which  Mr.  Hildreth  very 
properly  dwells  upon  and  exposes.  We  refer  to  the 
theocratical  governments  which  they  founded.  No 
historian  of  America  has  so  fully  done  them  justice 
in  this  respect.  He  fears  no  man ;  he  is  not  misled 
by  any  reverence  for  the  Puritans ;  he  shows  no  antip- 
athy to  them ;  extenuates  nothing,  adds  nothing,  and 
sets  down  naught  in  malice.  We  shall  dwell  a  little 
on  the  theocratical  tyranny  which  they  sought  to  exer- 
cise. In  1629,  John  and  Samuel  Browne,  at  Salem, 
insisted  on  using  the  liturgy  of  the  English  church, 
and  set  up  a  separate  worship  of  their  own  for  that 


286  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

purpose.  They  were  arrested  as  "  incorrigible,'* 
"  factious  and  evil  conditioned,"  and  shipped  home 
to  England. 

In  1631,  the  government  of  Masachusetts  decided 
that  no  man  shall  be  admitted  a  freeman,  that  is,  a 
voter,  a  citizen  in  full,  unless  he  were  a  member  of  a 
church  in  the  colony.  The  candidate  for  church 
membership  must  state  his  "  religious  experience  "  be- 
fore the  church,  convince  them  of  his  "  assurance " 
and  "  justification,"  before  he  shall  be  admitted  as  a 
member.  Thus  the  road  to  the  ballot-box  led  through 
the  church,  and  lay  directly  in  the  range  of  the  pul- 
pit. Hence  it  was  no  easy  matter  to  become  a  free- 
man. Mr.  Hildreth  says  not  a  fourth  part  of  the 
adult  population  were  church  members.  Baptism  was 
the  special  privilege  of  church  members  and  their  "  in- 
fant seed." 

The  clergy  were  aristocratic,  in  the  evil  sense  of 
that  word.  They  would  not  let  the  inhabitants  of 
Newtown  [Cambridge]  remove  to  Connecticut  in  1634, 
for  "  the  removal  of  a  candlestick  is  a  great  judg- 
ment, which  ought  to  be  avoided."  Fines  were  im- 
posed for  absence  from  public  worship ;  they  aided  the 
"  Patricians  "  to  carry  "  the  point  against  the 
Plebians." 

Stephen  Goldsmith  was  fined  forty  pounds,  forced  to  ! 
make  acknowledgment  in  all  the  churches  (1636), 
and  give  bonds  for  a  hundred  pounds,  because  he  said 
all  the  ministers  in  the  colony,  except  Allen  Wheel-  ' 
wright,  and,  "  as  he  thought,  Mr.  Hooker,"  "  did 
teach  a  covenant  of  works."  Men  were  forbidden 
to  erect  a  dwelling  more  than  half  a  mile  from  the 
meeting-house,  says  Mr.  Hildreth.  The  Puritan  au- 
thorities became  as  arbitrary  and  unjust  as  the  court 


HILDRETH  287 

of  "  High  Commission,"  in  England ;  and  persecuted 
men,  and  women  not  less,  for  diifering  from  the  opinion 
of  the  theocratic  officers.  Stoughton  was  persecuted 
for  political  opinions,  Williams  for  religious,  and 
Mrs.  Hutchinson  for  philosophical  notions  on  ques- 
tions of  the  most  subtle  character.  Baptists  and 
Quakers  were  imprisoned,  whipped,  banished,  or  put 
to  death. 

No  man  was  allowed  to  settle  in  the  colony  without 
a  permit  from  the  magistrate ;  a  new  comer  must  not 
have  a  house,  and  no  man  was  suffered  to  entertain  him 
more  than  three  weeks,  without  permission.  Before 
Massachusetts  had  been  settled  ten  years,  the  synod 
at  Newtown  condemned  eighty-two  prevalent  opinions 
as  "  false  and  heretical ! "  Wheelwright  and  Mrs. 
Hutchinson  were  banished  for  unpopular  opinions ; 
freedom  of  worship  was  forbidden  even  to  the  like- 
minded,  and  "  the  lords  brethren  "  became  as  tyranni- 
cal as  "  the  lords  bishops."  An  attempt  was  made, 
in  1639,  to  establish  a  church  at  Weymouth,  on  the 
principle  of  admitting  all  baptized  persons  without 
requiring  a  profession  of  faith  or  relation  of  experi- 
ence. It  was  promptly  suppressed ;  the  minister  con- 
cerned in  the  business  was  forced  to  make  an  apology ; 
some  of  the  laymen  were  fined  from  two  to  twenty 
pounds,  one  whipped  "  eleven  stripes,"  and  one  dis- 
franchised. Two  persons  once  called  the  churches 
of  Massachusetts  "  anti-christian,"  and  were  heavily 
fined  and  imprisoned  for  the  offense.  Governor 
Easton,  of  Rhode  Island,  it  is  alleged,  once  said,  "  the 
elect  have  the  Holy  Ghost  and  also  the  devil  in- 
dwelling." He  had  provocation  for  his  conclusion. 
The  judicial  treatment  of  Mrs.  Hutchinson  was  in- 
famous, and  the  conduct   of  the  leading  clergy  was 


^88  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

worthy  of  the  darkest  ages  of  popish  bigotry.  The 
misfortunes  of  that  noble  woman  were  attributed  to 
'*  the  hand  of  God."  The  treatment  of  Samuel  Gor- 
ton and  his  coadjutors  is  nearly  as  desreputable.  Did 
Dr,  Child  and  others  petition  for  a  change  of  laws, 
so  that  inhabitants  not  church  members  might  have  the 
rights  of  English  subjects,  it  gave  "  great  offense  to 
many  godly  priests,  elders,  and  others ;  "  the  petition 
was  "  adjudged  a  contempt,"  the  petitioners  were  fined 
from  ten  to  fifty  pounds  apiece.  When  the  Doctor 
was  about  to  embark  for  England,  his  trunk  was 
searched  for  dangerous  papers  it  might  contain. 
Copies  of  two  memorials  were  found  in  the  study  of 
Mr.  Dand,  addressed  to  the  Commissioners  of  Planta- 
tions, one  of  them  signed  by  some  "  fishermen  of  Mar- 
blehead,  profane  persons,"  and  by  "  young  men  who 
came  over  servants,  and  never  had  any  show  of  religion 
in  them,"  and  by  "  men  of  no  reason."  "  A  young 
fellow,  a  carpenter,"  by  the  name  of  Joy,  had  been 
busy  obtaining  signatures  to  the  petition,  and  was 
kept  in  irons  till  "  he  humbled  himself  "  and  "  blessed 
God  for  these  irons  upon  his  legs,  hoping  they  would 
do  him  good  while  he  lived."  The  offense  of  the  men 
in  whose  hands  the  petitions  were  found  was  deemed 
"  in  nature  capital,"  treason  gainst  the  Commonwealth. 
Dand  was  kept  in  prison  more  than  a  year,  and  Child, 
with  others,  was  heavily  fined. 

The  magistrates  of  Massachusetts  were  long  averse 
to  having  fixed  laws  —  preferring  an  arbitrary  gov- 
ernment by  men  to  he  sober  and  dispassionate  govern- 
ment of  impartial  statutes.  The  code  made  in  1649 
contained  some  remarkable  provisions :  "  Stubborn  and 
rebellious  sons,"  and  children  over  sixteen  "  who  curse 
or  smite  their  natural  father  or  mother,"  were  pun- 


HILDRETH  289 

ished  with  death.  Courtship  must  not  be  undertaken 
without  the  permission  of  the  parents  or  guardians  of 
the  maid ;  or,  in  their  absence,  that  of  the  "  nearest 
magistrate,"  under  penalty  of  fine  and  imprisonment. 
Blasphemy  was  a  capital  crime.  Men  were  to  be  ban- 
ished "  for  preaching  and  maintaining  any  damnable 
heresies,  as  denying  the  immortality  of  the  soul,  or 
resurrection  of  the  body,"  or  "  that  Christ  gave  him- 
self a  ransom  for  our  sins,"  or  "  for  declaring  that 
we  are  not  sanctified  by  his  death  and  righteousness," 
or  for  denying  "  the  morality  of  the  fourth  command- 
ment," or  the  efficacy  of  infant  baptism,  or  for  de- 
parting from  church  at  the  administration  of  that 
ordinance.  A  few  years  later,  a  law  was  made  pun- 
ishing with  fine,  whipping,  banishment,  or  with  death, 
any  persons  "  who  denied  the  received  books  of  the 
Old  and  New  Testaments  to  be  the  infallible  word  of 
God."  We  know  some  persons  who  would  be  glad  to 
revive  these  pleasant  statutes  at  the  present  day.  We 
are  told  it  is  not  long  since  an  attempt  was  made  in 
Massachusetts  to  secure  the  indictment  of  a  distin- 
guished scholar  for  a  learned  article  published  in  a 
very  respectable  theological  journal,  in  which  he  main- 
tained that  there  was  no  prophetic  passage  in  the  Old 
Testament  which  was  originally  intended  to  apply 
to  Jesus  of  Nazareth.^  It  is  not  ten  years  since  there 
appeared,  in  one  of  the  leading  secular  newspapers  of 
Boston,  an  article  written  by  a  venerable  clergyman, 
calling  for  the  arrest  and  punishment  of  a  young 
man  who  had,  in  a  sermon,  spoken  against  the  cor- 
ruption of  the  Christian  church  at  his  day,  and  the 
doctrines  that  had  no  foundation  in  reason  and  the 
nature  of  things.  Three  years'  confinement  in  the 
state's  prison  was  the  punishment  demanded  for  the 

young  minister !  ^ 
11—19 


290  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Everybody  knows  the  treatment  of  Baptists  and 
Quakers  in  Massachusetts.  The  "  great  Cotton  "  de- 
clared that  denial  of  infant  baptism  was  "  soul-mur- 
der," and  a  capital  offense.  When  Obadiah  Holmes 
was  fined  thirty  pounds  for  being  a  Baptist,  as  he  went 
from  the  bar  he  thanked  God  that  he  was  "counted 
worthy  to  suffer  for  the  name  of  Jesus."  "  Where- 
upon," says  Holmes,  "  John  Wilson  [minister  of 
'  First  Church '  in  Boston]  struck  me  before  the  judg- 
ment-seat and  cursed  me,  saying :  '  The  curse  of  God 
or  Jesus  go  with  thee.'  "  Holmes  would  not  pay  his 
fine,  and  was  whipped  thirty  stripes  with  a  three- 
corded  whip,  "  the  man  striking  with  all  his  strength." 
But  he  "  had  such  a  spiritual  manifestation  that  I 
could  well  bear  it,"  says  he,  "  yea,  and  in  a  manner 
felt  it  not,  although  it  was  grievous,  as  the  spectators 
said."  He  told  the  magistrates,  "  you  have  struck 
me  as  with  roses,"  and  "  I  pray  God  it  may  not  be  laid 
to  your  charge."  Two  men  came  up  after  the  brutal 
punishment  was  over,  and  shook  hands  with  him,  say- 
ing, "  blessed  be  God."  They  were  fined  forty  shill- 
ings, and  imprisoned.  Yet  the  Baptists  continued  to 
increase.     Blow  the  fire,  if  you  wish  it  to  burn. 

The  town  of  Maiden  was  fined  for  presuming  to 
settle  a  minister  without  consulting  the  neighboring 
churches,  though  there  was  no  law  to  that  effect.  The 
General  Court  forbade  the  settlement  of  Michael 
Powell  in  the  ministry  at  the  second  church  in  Boston ; 
he  had  been  a  tavern-keeper  at  Dedham,  and  though 
"  gifted,"  was  "  unlearned."  How  humbly  he  sub- 
mitted :  "  My  humble  request  is,  that  you  would  not 
have  such  hard  thoughts  of  me  that  I  would  consent 
to  be  ordained  to  office  without  your  concurrence;  nor 
that   our   poor   church   would   attempt   such    a   thing 


HILDRETH  291 

without  your  approbation."  At  his  death,  this 
"  gifted  "  man  left  furniture  to  the  value  of  fourteen 
pounds,  and  a  library  consisting  of  "  three  Bibles,  a 
Concordance,  with  other  books,"  valued  at  "  two 
pounds." 

In  Massachusetts  men  not  members  of  the  church 
were  compelled  to  support  the  clergyman,  and  through 
her  influence  Plymouth,  always  before  her  sister  in 
liberality,  passed  a  law  to  the  same  effect.  However, 
Williams  in  his  settlement  at  New  Providence  could 
rejoice  that  we  have  not  "  been  consumed  with  the  over- 
zealous  fire  of  the  so-called  godly  ministers."  Salton- 
stall  writes  to  the  New  Englanders :  "  First,  you  com- 
pel such  to  come  into  your  assemblies  as  you  know  will 
not  join  you  in  your  worship,  and  when  they  show 
their  dislike  thereof,  or  witness  against  it,  then  you 
stir  up  your  magistrates  to  punish  them  for  such,  as 
you  conceive,  their  public  affronts."  Cotton  and  Wil- 
son replied,  "  Better  be  hypocrites  than  profane  per- 
sons," "  we  fled  from  men's  inventions,"  and  only  com- 
pelled others  to  attend  to  "  God's  institutions," —  that 
is,  to  all  the  abominations  of  the  Puritan  creed  and 
ritual.  "  We  content  ourselves  with  unity  in  the 
foundation  of  religion  and  church  order." 

Never  was  the  violent  attempt  to  secure  "  unity  in 
the  foundation  of  religion  "  less  successful.  New 
England  was  a  perfect  hotbed  of  heresy.  "  How  is 
it,"  writes  Sir  Harry  Vane,  in  1653,  "  that  there  are 
such  divisions  among  you, —  such  headiness,  tumults, 
disorder,  injustice.?  Are  there  no  wise  men  among 
you, — ■  no  public  self-denying  spirits  ?  " 

A  law  was  passed  prohibiting  the  erection  of  a  meet- 
ing-house without  the  consent  of  the  freemen  of  the 
town, —  who   were   all   theocratically    orthodox,^ —  and 


S92  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

the  county  court,  or  the  consent  of  the  General  Court. 
It  would  be  "  setting  up  an  altar  against  the  Lord's 
altar."  Quakers  were  banished  or  hanged.  But  all 
this  was  ineffectual  in  making  men  think  alike.  Bap- 
tists, Quakers,  Antinomians,  Ranters  of  all  sorts  there 
were,  excited  no  doubt  by  the  laws  against  freedom. 
The  "  hateful  Episcopalians  "  at  length  got  a  church 
established,  in  1686;  the  theocracy  dwindled. 

It  is  instructive  to  see  the  Puritans  in  New  England 
and  the  Jesuits  in  Canada,  at  the  same  time,  contend- 
ing to  establish  a  theocracy,  both  for  the  same  pur- 
pose, each  by  the  same  means, —  the  suppression  of  in- 
dividual freedom  in  religion. 

"Presbytery  does  but  translate 
The  Papacy  to  a  free  state," 

said  Butler,  and  with  not  a  little  truth.  The  laws  of 
Massachusetts,  which  continued  in  force  till  the  Revolu- 
tion, provided  that  a  "  Popish  priest "  coming  here 
should  be  accounted  "  an  incendiary,  and  disturber 
of  the  public  peace  and  safety."  He  was  to  suffer 
perpetual  imprisonment  and  death,  if  he  attempted 
to  escape.  But  spite  of  the  law  against  "  Popish 
priests,"  the  worst  part  of  Papacy  came  here, —  the 
spirit  of  intolerance  and  persecution. 

Along  with  this  intolerance  of  the  churches,  the  old 
elements  of  feudal  aristocracy  were  brought  to 
America,  and  continued  to  live  for  awhile  in  the  new 
soil.  A  distinction  was  carefully  kept  up  between 
"  gentlemen "  and  those  of  an  inferior  condition. 
Only  the  "gentlemen  "  were  allowed  the  title  "  Mr. ;  " 
their  number  was  not  very  large.  The  rest  rejoiced  in 
the  appellative  "  Goodman."  In  1639  some  "  persons 
of  quality  "  wished  to  come  to  New  England,  and  it 
was   proposed   to   establish   "  a   standing    council   for 


HILDRETH  293 

life ; "  in  the  Commonwealth  there  were  to  be  two 
classes  of  men,  namely,  "  hereditary  gentlemen,"  to 
sit  as  a  permanent  senate,  and  a  body  of  "  freehold- 
ers," who  were  to  send  deputies  to  constitute  a  lower 
house.  The  magistrates  and  elders  favored  the  scheme, 
finding  it  comformable  to  the  "  light  of  nature  and 
Scripture."  The  "  great  Cotton,"  an  able  man,  with 
the  soul  of  a  priest,  liked  the  scheme  well ;  democracy 
was  "  not  a  fit  government  either  for  church  or  state ;  " 
monarchy  and  aristocracy  "  are  approved  and  directed 
in  Scripture,"  "  but  only  a  theocracy  is  set  up  in 
both."  "  If  the  people  are  governors,"  says  he,  "  who 
shall  be  governed? "  Indignant  Mr.  Savage,  com- 
menting on  this  measure,  says  "  the  ministers  were 
perpetually  meddling  with  the  regimen  of  the  Com- 
monwealth ;  and  we  have  frequent  occasion  to  regret 
that  their  references  to  the  theocracy  of  Israel  were 
received  as  authority  rather  than  illustration."  But 
•  how  could  it  be  otherwise,  with  such  a  theology  ? 
Calvinism  naturally  leads  to  an  aristocracy  on  earth, 
as  well  as  in  heaven.  The  world  —  this  and  the  next 
—  is  for  the  elect,  and  who  shall  lay  anything  to 
their  charge.''  However,  the  people  put  an  end  to  all 
talk  about  "  hereditary  gentlemen,"  who  disappear 
from  the  history  of  New  England  for  ever.  Had 
this  ungodly  proposition  become  a  law  the  state  of 
things  would  have  been  a  little  different  to-day !  For 
a  long  time  the  law,  however,  recognized  a  distinction 
between  the  gentleman  and  the  simple  man.  "  No 
man,"  says  a  law  of  1641,  "  shall  be  beaten  above 
forty  stripes ;  nor  shall  any  true  gentleman,  or  any 
man  equal  to  a  gentleman,  be  punished  with  whipping, 
unless  his  crime  be  very  shameful  and  his  career  of  life 
vicious  and  profligate."     But  in   1703  Paul  Dudley 


^94.  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

thought  Massachusetts  a  very  poor  place  for  "  gen- 
tlemen ; "  meaning,  says  Mr.  Hildreth,  "  those  who 
wish  to  grow  rich  on  the  labor  of  others."  For  some 
time  there  was  no  trial  by  jury  in  Connecticut;  "no 
warrant  was  found  for  it  in  the  Word  of  God."  We 
find  the  democratic  element  active  in  New  England  at 
the  very  beginning,  continually  increasing  in  strength. 
At  first,  it  is  more  powerful  in  Plymouth  than  in 
Massachusetts.  For  eighteen  years  all  the  laws  of 
Plymouth  were  made  in  a  general  assembly  of  all  the 
people.  The  governor  was  only  president  of  a  council 
of  assistants.  The  church  had  no  pastor  for  eight 
years ;  Brewster,  the  ruling  elder,  and  such  members 
as  had  the  "  gift  of  prophecy,"  exhorted  the  congre- 
gations. On  i^unday  afternoons  there  was  a  free 
meeting;  a  question  was  started,  and  all  spoke  that 
saw  fit.  But  gradually  the  theocratic  spirit  of  Massa- 
chusetts invaded  the  sister  colony.  Still,  church  mem- 
bership was  not  required  as  a  condition  of  citizenship. 
In  1631  the  freemen  in  Massachusetts  began  to  be  jeal- 
ous of  the  theocratic  oligarchy  which  ruled  the  colony, 
and  claimed  the  right  of  annually  electing  new  as- 
sistants. The  constitution  of  towns  was  democratic 
from  the  beginning,  and  has  been  changed  but  little 
since.  The  towns  were  then,  as  now,  little  republics, 
managing  their  own  affairs,  voting  money,  levying 
taxes,  and  choosing  "  selectmen,"  a  town  clerk,  treas- 
urer, and  constable.  The  town  system  is  an  original 
New  England  institution,  and  has  proved  of  great 
value  in  the  acquisition  of  political  liberty.  The  free- 
dom of  the  town  helped  overcome  the  tyranny  of  the 
church. 

At   first   the   magistrates   levied  the   taxes   for   the 
whole  colony ;  but,  in  1632,  the  people  of  Watertown 


HILDRETH  295 

considered  that  it  "  was  not  safe  to  pay  moneys  after 
that  sort,  for  fear  of  bringing  themselves  and  their 
posterity  into  bondage."  It  was  a  wholesome  and  a 
timely  fear.  The  freemen  determined  to  choose  their 
governor  and  deputy  governor.  In  1634  the  first  rep- 
resentative court  assembled ;  there  were  three  deputies 
from  each  of  the  eight  towns  or  plantations.  Soon 
they  demanded  fixed  and  definite  laws.  It  seems  quite 
remarkable,  but  it  is  true,  that  while  money  was  not 
the  chief  basis  of  social  respectability,  Boston  was  far 
before  the  country  in  point  of  liberality.  Now,  the 
opposite  is  true.  Providence  Plantation  led  the  way 
in  the  establishment  of  liberty;  for,  in  1647,  the  gov- 
ernment was  declared  "  democratical,"  freedom  of 
faith  and  worship  was  assured  to  all,  "  the  first  formal 
and  legal  establishment  of  religious  liberty  ever  pro- 
mulgated," says  Mr.  Hildreth.  In  1652,  in  York- 
shire (in  Maine),  and  in  some  other  parts  of  New 
England,  church  membership  was  not  necessary  to 
citizenship.  Toleration  began  to  be  demanded  for  the 
Church  of  England,  and  as  the  Puritans  had  estab- 
lished a  theocratic  tyranny  as  bad  as  what  they  fled 
from,  so  the  Episcopalians  became  an  humble  instru- 
ment in  promoting  religious  freedom  in  America.  In 
1662,  the  king  demanded  the  repeal  of  the  law  which 
limited  citizenship  to  church  members,  substituting  a 
proper  qualification  instead,  and  the  admission  of  all 
persons  of  honest  lives  to  baptism  and  the  Lord's  Sup- 
per. For  some  years  there  were  three  parties  in  New 
England:  the  theocratic  party,  which  continually 
diminished ;  the  Episcopalians,  Baptists,  and  Quakers, 
who  demanded  religious  freedom ;  and  the  moderate 
men,  who  mediated  between  the  two  extremes.  The 
"  halfway    covenant "    was    adopted   in    1659 ;   a   few 


1296  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

years  later  a  Baptist  church  was  formally  organized 
in  Boston,  and  though  persecuted  for  a  long  time  sur- 
vives to  this  day.  After  the  revocation  of  the  charter, 
the  theocratic  party  was  weakened  still  further  and 
their  domination  at  length  came  to  an  end. 

"  A  new  school  of  divines,  known  as  Latitudinarians,  sprung 
up  among  the  Protestants  towards  the  conclusion  of  the  previ- 
ous century,  had  essayed  the  delicate  task  of  reconciling  reason 
with  revelation.  They  not  only  rejected  the  authority  of  tra- 
dition, so  highly  extolled  and  implicitly  relied  upon  by  the 
Catholics  and  the  English  High  Churchmen;  they  scouted,  also, 
that  special  interior  persuasion  which  the  Puritans,  after  the 
early  Reformers,  had  denominated  faith,  but  which  to  these 
reasoning  divines  seemed  no  better  than  enthusiasm.  They  pre- 
ferred to  rest  the  truth  of  Christianity  on  the  testimony  of 
prophecy  and  miracles,  of  which  they  undertook  to  establish 
the  reality  by  the  application  to  the  Bible  history  of  the  ordi- 
nary rules  of  evidence;  by  which  same  rules  they  undertook 
to  establish,  also,  the  authenticity  and  inspiration  of  the  Bible 
itself." 

"  They  presently  pushed  the  principle  of  the  halfway  cove- 
nant so  far  as  to  grant  to  all  persons  not  immoral  in  their 
lives  admission  to  the  Lord's  Supper;  indeed,  all  the  privileges 
of  full  church  membership.  Much  to  the  mortification  of  the 
Mathers,  who  wrote  and  protested  against  this  doctrine,  the 
college  at  Cambridge  presently  passed  under  the  control  of  the 
new  party  —  a  change  not  without  important  results  on  the  in- 
tellectual history  of  New-England." 

"  In  the  century  since  its  settlement.  New  England  had  un- 
dergone a  great  change.  The  austere  manners  of  the  Puritan 
fathers  were  still,  indeed,  preserved;  their  language  was  re- 
peated; their  observances  were  kept  up;  their  institutions  were 
revered;  forms  and  habits  remained,  but  the  spirit  was  gone. 
The  more  ordinary  objects  of  human  desire  and  pursuit,  the 
universal  passion  for  wealth,  political  squabbles  with  the  royal 
governors,  land  speculations,  paper  money  jobs,  and  projects 
of  territorial  and  personal  aggrandizement,  had  superseded 
those  metaphysical  disputes,  that  spiritual  vision,  and  that  ab- 
sorbing passion  for  a  pure  theocratic  commonwealth  which  had 
carried  the  fathers  into  the  wilderness.  Even  Cotton  Mather, 
such  was  the  progress  of  opinion,  boasted  of  the  harmony  in 
which  various  religious  sects  lived  together  in  Boston,  and 
spoke  of  religious  persecution  as  an  obsolete  blunder." 


HILDRETH  S97 

"  Education  and  habit,  especially  in  what  relates  to  outward 
forms,  are  not  easily  overcome.  Episcopacy  made  but  slow 
progress  in  New  England.  A  greater  change,  however,  was 
silently  going  on;  among  the  more  intelligent  and  thoughtful, 
both  of  laymen  and  ministers,  Latitudinarianism  continued  to 
spread.  Some  approached  even  towards  Socinianism,  carefully 
concealing,  however,  from  themselves  their  advance  to  that 
abyss.  The  seeds  of  schism  were  broadly  sown;  but  extreme 
caution  and  moderation  on  the  side  of  the  Latitudinarians  long 
prevented  any  open  rupture.  They  rather  insinuated  than 
avowed  their  opinions.  Afraid  of  a  controversy,  in  which 
they  were  conscious  that  popular  prejudice  would  be  all  against 
them,  unsettled  many  of  them  in  their  own  minds,  and  not 
daring  to  probe  matters  to  the  bottom,  they  patiently  waited 
the  further  effects  of  that  progressive  change  by  which  they 
themselves  had  been  borne  along.  To  gloss  over  their  heresies, 
they  called  themselves  Arminians;  they  even  took  the  name  of 
moderate  Calvinists.  Like  all  doubters,  they  lacked  the  zeal 
and  energy  of  faith.  Like  all  dissemblers,  they  were  timid 
and  hesitating.  Conservatives  as  well  as  Latitudinarians,  they 
wished,  above  all  things,  to  enjoy  their  salaries  and  clerical 
dignities  in  comfort  and  in  peace.  Free  comparatively  in  their 
studies,  they  were  very  cautious  in  their  pulpits  how  they 
shocked  the  fixed  prejudices  of  a  bigoted  people  whose  bread 
they  ate.  It  thus  happened,  that  while  the  New  England  the- 
ology, as  held  by  the  more  intelligent,  underwent  decided 
changes,  the  old  Puritan  phraseology  was  still  generally  pre- 
served, and  the  old  Puritan  doctrines,  in  consequence,  still  kept 
their  hold  to  a  great  extent  on  the  mass  of  the  people.  Yet 
remarkable  local  modifications  of  opinion  were  silently  produced 
by  individual  ministers,  the  influence  of  the  abler  Latitudinarian 
divines  being  traceable  to  this  day  in  the  respective  places  of 
their  settlement." 

"  As  the  exalted  religious  imagination  of  New  England  sub- 
sided to  the  common  level,  as  reason  and  the  moral  sense  began 
to  struggle  against  the  overwhelming  pressure  of  religious  awe, 
a  party  inevitably  appeared  which  sought  by  learned  glosses 
to  accommodate  the  hard  text  of  the  Scriptures  and  the  hard 
doctrines  of  the  popular  creed  to  the  altered  state  of  the  public 
mind." 

"  The  modern  doctrines  of  religious  freedom  and  free  in- 
quiry have  constantly  gained  ground,  throwing  more  and  more 
into  the  shade  that  old  idea,  acted  upon  with  special  energy 
by  the  Puritan  colonists  of  New  England  —  deep  traces  of 
which  are  also  to  be  found  in  every  North  American  code  — 


298  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

the  theocratic  idea  of  a  Christian  commonwealth,  in  which 
every  other  interest  must  be  made  subservient  to  unity  of 
faith  and  worship." 

At  length  Unltarianism  and  Unlversalism  came, 
after  the  Revolution,  to  bring  things  to  their  present 
condition.  As  Mr.  Hildreth  says,  of  times  soon  after 
that,  even  "  in  New  England  the  old  leaven  of  Latitu- 
dinarianism  was  still  deeply  at  work  among  the 
learned,  while,  among  the  less  educated  classes,  the  new 
doctrine  of  Universalism  began  to  spread." 

Along  with  this  bigotry  of  the  Puritans,  there  was 
a  hardy  vigor,  a  capacity  for  doing  and  enduring, 
a  manly  reliance  on  God  and  their  own  arm,  one 
acknowledged,  the  other  not  confessed,  which  are 
worthy  of  admiration. 

The  treatment  of  the  natives  has  been  remarkable. 
We  have  before  spoken  of  the  national  exclusiveness  of 
the  Anglo-Saxon  race ;  it  was  never  made  more  ap- 
parent than  by  the  Puritans  in  New  England.  It  is 
difficult  even  for  one  of  their  descendants,  at  the  pres- 
ent time,  to  understand  the  feeling  of  our  fathers  re- 
specting the  Indians.  Dr.  Joseph  Mede  was  a  learned 
and  enlightened  man,  but  in  1634*  he  wrote  to  his 
friend.  Dr.  Twisse,  as  follows   : 

"  I  think  that  the  Devil,  being  impatient  of  the  sound  of 
the  Gospel  and  Cross  of  Christ  in  every  part  of  this  old  world, 
so  that  he  could  in  no  place  be  quiet  for  it,  and  foreseeing  that 
he  was  like  at  length  to  lose  all  here,  bethought  himself  to  pro- 
vide him  of  a  seed  over  which  he  might  reign  securely;  and  in 
a  place,  ubi  nee  Pelopidarum  facta  neque  nomen  audiret. 

"  That  accordingly  he  drew  a  Colony  out  of  some  of  those 
barbarous  Nations  dwelling  upon  the  Northern  Ocean  (whither 
the  sound  of  Christ  had  not  yet  come),  and  promising  them 
by  some  Oracle  to  shew  them  a  Countrey  far  better  than  their 
own  (which  he  might  soon  do),  pleasant,  large,  where  never 
man  yet  inhabited,  he  conducted  them  over  those  desart  Lands 
and  Islands   (which  are  many  in  that  sea)   by  the  way  of  the 


HILDRETH  299 

North  into  America;  which  none  would  ever  have  gone,  had 
they  not  first  been  assured  there  was  a  passage  that  way  into 
a  more  desirable  Countrey.  Namely,  as  when  the  world  aposta- 
tized from  the  Worship  of  the  true  God,  God  called  Abram 
out  of  Chaldee  into  the  Land  of  Canaan,  of  him  to  raise  him  a 
Seed  to  preserve  a  light  unto  his  Name:  So  the  Devil,  when  he 
saw  the  world  apostatizing  from  him,  laid  the  foundations  of 
a  new  Kingdom,  by  deducting  this  Colony  from  the  North  into 
America,  where  since  they  have  increased  into  an  innumerable 
multitude.  And  where  did  the  Devil  ever  reign  more  absolutely 
and  without  controU,  since  mankind  fell  first  under  his  clutches? 
And  here  it  is  to  be  noted,  that  the  story  of  the  Mexican 
Kingdom  (which  was  not  founded  above  400  years  before  ours 
came  thither)  relates  out  of  their  own  memorials  and  traditions 
that  they  came  to  that  place  from  the  North;  whence  their 
God  Vitzliliputzli  led  them,  going  in  an  Ark  before  them:  and 
after  divers  years  travel  and  many  stations  (like  enough  after 
some  generations)  they  came  to  the  place  which  the  Sign  he  had 
given  them  at  their  first  setting  forth  pointed  out,  where  they 
were  to  finish  their  travels,  build  themselves  a  City,  and  their 
God  a  Temple;  which  is  the  place  where  Mexico  was  built. 
Now  if  the  Devil  were  God's  ape  in  this;  why  might  he  not  be 
so  likewise  in  bringing  the  first  Colony  of  men  into  that  world 
out  of  ours?  namely,  by  Oracle,  as  God  did  Abraham  out  of 
Chaldee,  whereto   I   before   resembled  it. 

"  But  see  the  hand  of  Divine  Providence.  When  the  off- 
spring of  these  Runnagates  from  the  sound  of  Christ's  Gospel 
had  now  replenisht  that  other  world,  and  began  to  flourish  in 
those  two  Kingdoms  of  Peru  and  Mexico,  Christ  our  Lord 
sends  his  Mastives  the  Spaniards  to  hunt  them  out  and  worry 
them:  Which  they  did  in  so  hideous  a  manner,  as  the  like 
thereunto  scarce  ever  was  done  since  the  Sons  of  Noah  came 
out  of  the  Ark.  What  an  affront  to  the  Devil  was  this,  where 
he  had  thought  to  have  reigned  securely,  and  been  forever  con- 
cealed from  the  knowledge  of  the  followers  of  Christ? 

"  Yet  the  Devil  perhaps  is  less  grieved  for  the  loss  of  his 
servants  by  the  destroying  of  them,  than  he  would  be  to  lose 
them  by  the  saving  of  them;  by  which  latter  way  I  doubt  the 
Spaniards  have  despoiled  him  but  of  a  few.  What  then  if 
Christ  our  Lord  will  give  him  his  second  affront  with  better 
Christians,  which  may  be  more  grievous  to  him  than  the  former? 
And  if  Christ  shall  set  him  up  a  light  in  this  manner  to  dazle 
and  torment  the  Devil  at  his  own  home,  I  will  hope  they 
shall  not  so  far  degenerate  (not  all  of  them)  as  to  come  in 
that  Army  of  Gog  and  Magog  against  the  Kingdom  of  Christ, 


800  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

but  be  translated  thither  before  the  Devil  be  loosed,  if  not 
presently  after  his  tying  up.  And  whence  should  those  Na- 
tions get  notice  of  the  glorious  happiness  of  our  world,  if  not 
by  some  Christians  that  had  lived  among  them?" — The  Works 
of  the  Pious  ^  Profoundly-Learned  Joseph  Mede,  B.D.,  some- 
time Fellow  of  Christ's  College  in  Cambridge,  &c.,  &c.  Lon- 
don: 1677.     pp.  800  —  801. 

At  Plymouth  the  Indians  were  treated  with  more 
justice  than  is  usual  for  the  civilized  to  show  to  bar- 
barians. In  1633  legal  provision  was  made  in 
Massachusetts  for  such  red  men  as  should  become 
civilized ;  but,  with  Anglo-Saxon  exclusiveness,  they 
were  to  be  formed  into  townships  by  themselves. 
Major  Gibbons,  at  a  later  date,  was  admonished  "  of 
the  distance  which  is  to  be  observed  betwixt  Christians 
and  barbarians  as  well  in  war  as  in  other  negotiations." 
It  was  with  difficulty  that  Eliot  obtained  liberty  to 
organize  a  church  at  Natick.  Yet  the  threat  was 
made  by  the  praying  Indians  to  the  Wampanoags 
that,  unless  they  accepted  the  gospel,  Massachusetts 
"  would  destroy  them  by  war."  A  sharp  distinction 
was  always  made  between  converted  Indians  and  other 
Christians ;  they  were  treated,  in  every  respect,  as  an 
inferior  race;  restricted  to  villages  of  their  own,  and 
cut  off  by  opinion,  as  well  as  law,  from  intermarriage 
and  intercourse  with  the  whites.  No  one  was  allowed 
to  sell  them  horses  or  boats.  It  was  proposed  to  ex- 
terminate them,  as  being  of  the  "  cursed  seed  of  Ham." 
Thus  causes  were  put  in  action  which  at  length  have 
brought  the  Indians  to  their  j^resent  condition  in 
Massachusetts. 

At  an  early  date  many  of  them  were  reduced  to 
slavery,  some  in  New  England ;  others  were  sent  off  as 
slaves  to  the  West  Indies,  eight  score  at  one  time, 
though   regular   prisoners   of   war.     There   were   Old 


HILDRETH  301 

Testament  examples  for  this,  and  even  worse  treat- 
ment. Roger  Williams  once  received  "  a  boy  "  as  his 
share  of  the  plunder  obtained  at  an  Indian  defeat. 
In  1712,  Massachusetts  forbade  the  further  inporta- 
tion  of  Indian  slaves ;  not  from  any  moral  scruples, 
but  on  account  of  "  divers  conspiracies,  outrages, 
barbarities,  murders,  burglaries,  thefts,  and  other  no- 
torious crimes  and  enormities,  perpetrated  and  com- 
mitted by  Indians,  being  of  a  surly  and  revengful 
spirit,  rude  and  insolent  in  their  behavior,  and  very 
ungovernable."  There  seems  to  have  been  no  moral 
objection  to  slavery  in  the  Great  and  General  Court  at 
that  time. 

Outrageous  cruelties  were  often  practiced  on  the 
Indians.  It  was  once  proposed  by  the  commissioners 
for  the  colonies,  that  in  case  of  war  "  mastiff  dogs 
might  be  of  good  use."  But  we  think  the  proposi- 
tion was  not  carried  out  till  nearly  two  hundred  years 
later,  then  in  a  different  latitude,  to  the  amazement  of 
the  civilized  world.  Even  the  men  of  Plymouth  loved 
bloody  spectacles  at  the  cost  of  the  Indians.  In  1622, 
Wituwamat's  head  was  carried  thither  and  set  up  on 
a  pole,  as  a  warning.  It  was  in  vain  that  pious  Mr. 
Robinson  wished  they  had  converted  some  before  they 
killed  any.  An  order  was  once  given  to  Endicott  to 
put  to  death  all  the  Indian  men  on  Block  Island,  and 
make  slaves  of  the  women  and  children.  He  could  not 
kill  the  men,  so  he  stove  their  canoes,  burnt  their 
wigwams,  and  destroyed  their  standing  corn.  While 
the  Rev.  Mr.  Stone  was  once  praying  "  for  one  pledge 
of  love,"  to  confirm  the  fidelity  of  the  Indian  allies, 
they  came  in  with  five  such  pledges,  namely,  five 
Pequod  scalps.  No  doubt,  he  thought  his  prayer  was 
"  answered."     In  the  war  with  the  Pequods,  in  1637, 


302  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

under  Mason  and  Underbill,  the  colonists  "  bereaved 
of  pity  and  witbout  compassion,"  gave  no  quarter,  and 
showed  no  mercy ;  not  even  to  old  men,  women,  and  chil- 
dren. In  the  capture  of  an  Indian  fort  they  took 
only  seven  prisoners,  seven  more  escaped,  but  hun- 
dreds were  slain.  Says  Underbill,  "  Great  and  dole- 
ful was  the  sight,  to  the  view  of  young  soldiers,  to 
see  so  many  souls  lie  gasping  on  the  ground,  so  thick 
that  you  could  hardly  pass  along."  But  then  "  '  twas 
a  famous  victory."  On  another  occasion,  in  the  same 
war,  twenty-two  Indian  prisoners  of  war  were  put 
to  death  after  they  had  surrendered ;  about  fifty  were 
distributed  as  slaves,  not  "  to  every  man  a  damsel  or 
two,"  but  among  the  principal  colonists.  The  scalp 
of  Sassacus  was  sent  to  Boston.  Heads  and  hands 
of  Pequod  warriors  were  brought  in  by  other  Indians ! 
Even  the  savages  thought  the  "  war  too  furious,  and 
to  slay  too  many."  But  what  can  satisfy  bigotry  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord.'^  Underbill  refers  to  "  the  wars 
of  David  "  for  his  precedent ;  and,  for  authority,  says 
"  we  had  sufficient  light  from  the  Word  of  God  for  our 
proceedings."  Mason  adds  "  that  the  Lord  was  pleased 
to  smite  our  enemies  in  the  hinder  parts,  and  to  give 
us  their  land  for  an  inheritance."  The  New  Eng- 
landers  commanded  him  to  kill  Miantonimob,  their 
captive  and  former  friend ;  he  did  so,  and  ate  a  por- 
tion of  the  body,  for  which  there  was  no  scriptural 
warrant.  If  an  Indian  injured  a  white  man,  and  the 
tribe  did  not  give  satisfaction,  the  offender  might  be 
seized  and  delivered  to  the  injured  party,  "  either  to 
serve  or  to  be  shipped  off  and  exchanged  for  negroes." 
The  women  of  Marblehead  once  murdered  two  Indian 
prisoners ;  it  was  Sunday,  and  the  murderers  had  just 
come  out  of  church. 


HILDRETH  303 

The    most    wholesale    destructions    of    the    Indians 

took  place  during  King  Philip's  war.     More  than  two 

thousand  were  killed  or  taken  in  a  single  year.     Wita- 

mo,   the    squaw-sachem    of   Pocasset,     and     friend     of 

Philip,   was   drowned,   but   her   body   was    saved,   the 

head  cut  off  and  stuck  upon  a  pole  at  Taunton,  amid 

the  jeers  and  scoffs   of  the   colonists.      Philip's   dead 

body  was  beheaded  and  quartered ;  one  of  his  hands 

was  given  to  the  Indian  who  shot  him,  and  his  head 

was  carried  in  triumph  to  Plymouth  on  a  public  day 

of  thanksgiving  (August  17,  1676.)     "  Oh  that  men 

would  praise  the  Lord,"  says  Secretary  Morton,  "  for 

his  goodness  and  wonderful  works  unto  them !  "     His 

wife  and  son  were  taken  prisoners.     What  should  be 

done  with  the  lad,  a  boy  nine  years  old.''     The  opinion 

of  the  clergy  was  asked.      Cotton  of  Plymouth,   and 

Arnold  of  Marshfield,  thought  in  general  "  that  rule 

(Deuteronomy  xxiv.    16)    to  be  moral   and  therefore 

perpetually  binding,"  and  the  crime  of  the  parent  did 

attaint  the  son.     Yet  they  say : 

"  Yet,  upon  serious  consideration,  we  humbly  conceive  that 
the  children  of  notorious  traitors,  rebells,  and  murtherers,  espe- 
cially of  such  as  have  bin  principal  leaders  and  actors  in  such 
horrid  villainies,  and  that  against  a  whole  nation,  yea,  the  whole 
Israel  of  God,  may  be  involved  in  the  guilt  of  their  parents, 
and  may,  salva  republica,  be  adjudged  to  death,  as  to  us  seems 
evident  by  the  Scripture  instances  of  Saul,  Ashan,  Haman,  the 
children  of  whom  were  cut  oflF,  by  the  sword  of  Justice,  for 
the  transgressions  of  their  parents,  although,  concerning  some 
of  those  children,  it  be  manifest,  that  they  were  not  capable 
of  being  co-actors  therein." — Morton's  Memorial,  Davis'  Edi- 
tion, p.  454,  No.  1. 

Increase  Mather  says: — 

"  I  should  have  said  something  about  Philip's  son.  It  is  nec- 
essary that  some  effectual  course  should  be  taken  about  him. 
He  makes  me  think  of  Hadad,  who  was  a  little  child  when 
his  father   (the  chief  sachem  of  the  Edomites)   was  killed  by 


30^  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Joab;  and,  had  not  others  fled  away  with  him,  I  am  apt  to 
think  that  David  would  have  taken  a  course  that  Hadad  should 
never    have   proved    a    scourge    to   the    next    generation." — lb., 

No.  2. 

Keith,  of  Bridgewater,  gave  a  milder  council,  which 
was  followed.  The  boy  was  sold  into  slavery,  and  the 
money  deposited  in  the  treasury  of  the  colony. 
Philip's  wife  also  shared  the  same  fate.  The  state  of 
Massachusetts  is  so  much  richer  at  this  day.  We 
wonder  the  money  arising  from  the  sale,  this  price 
of  blood,  was  not  given  to  "  The  Society  for  propagat- 
ing the  Gospel  among  the  Indians."  In  1725  a 
premium  of  one  hundred  pounds  was  offered  for  each 
Indian  scalp.  It  was  estimated  that  each  scalp,  in 
the  war  of  1704,  had  cost  one  thousand  pounds.  The 
treatment  the  Indians  receive  at  the  hands  of  Mass- 
achusetts,  at  this   day,   is   a  terrible  reproach  to  us. 

There  is  another  matter  of  a  good  deal  of  importance 
we  wish  to  refer  to,  namely,  the  indented  servants 
brought  to  New  England.  Governor  Bradford,  in  one 
of  his  poetical  inspirations,  thus  alludes  to  them : — 

"  Another  cause  of  our  declining  here 
Is  a  mixed  multitude,  as  doth  appear. 
Many   for  servants  hitherto  were  brought. 
Others  came  for  gain,  or  new  ends  they  sought; 
And  of  those,  many  grew  loose  and  profane. 
Though  some  were  brought  to  know  God  and  his  name," 

"  These  servants,"  says  Mr.  Hildreth,  "  seem  in 
general  to  have  had  little  sympathy  with  the  austere 
manners  and  opinions  of  their  masters,  and  their  fre- 
quent transgressions  of  Puritan  decorum  gave  its  mag- 
istrates no  little  trouble."  In  1622  Weston  sent  out 
nearly  sixty  of  them ;  Gorges  brought  many  the  next 
year;  Sir  William  Brewster  sent  several  more  in  1628; 
nearly  two  hundred  came  in   1629 ;  Richard  Salton- 


HILDRETH  305 

stall  sent  twenty  in  1635.  It  was  one  of  the  offenses 
of  Morton  that  his  "  merry  mount "  was  a  refuge 
for  "  runaway  servants."  At  one  time  a  master  re- 
ceived a  grant  of  fifty  acres  of  land  for  each  servant 
he  brought  over.  About  two  hundred  servants  were 
once  set  free  on  their  arrival  in  New  England,  in  con- 
sequence of  the  scarcity  of  provisions  in  the  colony ! 

In  16il  the  law  allowed  any  man  to  harbor  ser- 
vants flying  from  the  tyranny  of  their  masters,  until 
the  master  could  be  judicially  examined;  notice  must 
be  given  to  the  master  and  the  nearest  constable.  A 
faithful  and  diligent  service,  for  seven  years,  en- 
titled the  servant  to  a  dismissal.  He  must  not  be 
sent  off  "  empty-handed,"  says  the  humane  statute, 
following  the  Mosaic  code  in  this  particular.  If  a 
master  maimed  or  disfigured  his  servant,  he  was  en- 
titled to  liberty  and  to  damages  also.  Still,  the  law 
was  not  very  precise  in  regard  to  the  treatment  of  this 
anomalous   class   of  persons. 

In  164*3  "  the  united  colonies  of  New  Englarid," 
forgetting  the  Old  Testament  when  property  was  at 
stake,  agreed  to  surrender  runaway  servants.  In  1650 
the  law  pursued  such  servants  and  arrested  them  at 
the  public  expense ;  they  were  required  to  make  up, 
threefold,  the  time  of  their  absence. 

In  1665  the  condition  of  servants  in  New  York  is 

remarkable. 

"  Under  a  provision  borrowed  from  the  Connecticut  code, 
fugitive  servants  might  be  pursued  by  hue  and  cry  at  the  pub- 
lic charge;  but  this  was  presently  found  too  expensive,  and  the 
cost  was  imposed  on  the  parties  concerned.  Runaway  servants 
were  to  forfeit  double  the  time  of  their  absence,  and  the  cost 
of  their  recapture.  All  who  aided  in  concealing  them  were 
liable  to  a  fine.  Tyrannical  masters  and  mistresses  might  be 
complained  of  to  the  overseers,  and  proceeded  against  at  the 
sessions;  and  servants  maimed  by  their  masters  were  entitled  to 
11—20 


S06  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

freedom  and  damages.  During  servitude,  they  were  forbidden 
to  sell  or  buy.  Any  master  of  a  vessel  carrying  any  person  out 
of  the  colony  without  a  pass  was  liable  for  his  debts;  and  by 
a  subsequent  provision,  any  unknown  person  travelling  through 
any  town  without  a  pass  was  liable  to  be  arrested  as  a  run- 
away, and  detained  till  he  proved  his  freedom,  and  paid,  by 
work  and  labor,  if  not  otherwise  able,  the  cost  of  his  arrest." 

The  importation  of  this  class  of  persons  continued 

till  after  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

"  The  colonial  enactments  for  keeping  these  servants  in  order, 
and  especially  for  preventing  them  from  running  away,  were 
often  very  harsh  and  very  severe.  They  were  put,  for  the  most 
part,  in  these  statutes,  on  the  same  level  with  the  slaves,  but 
their  case  in  other  respects  was  very  different.  In  all  the 
colonies,  the  term  of  indented  service,  even  where  no  express 
contract  had  been  entered  into,  was  strictly  limited  by  law, 
and,  except  in  the  case  of  very  young  persons,  it  seldom  or 
never  exceeded  seven  years.  On  the  expiration  of  that  term, 
these  freed  servants  were  absorbed  into  the  mass  of  white  in- 
habitants, and  the  way  lay  open  before  them  and  their  children 
to  wealth  and  social  distinction.  One  of  the  future  signers 
of  the  Declarai.on  of  Independence  was  brought  to  Pennsyl- 
vania as  a  redemptioner.  In  Virginia,  at  the  expiration  of  his 
term  of  service,  every  redemptioner,  in  common  with  other 
immigrants  to  the  colony,  was  entitled  to  a  free  grant  of  fifty 
acres  of  land,  and  in  all  the  colonies  certain  allowances  of 
clothing  were  required  to  be  made  by  the  late  masters." 

The  subject  demands  a  distinct  and  entire  treatise, 
for  which  we  have  no  space  at  present ;  but  the  fol- 
lowing document,  copied  for  us  by  a  friend,  from  the 
Court-records  at  Salem,  throw  some  light  on  the  age 
of  which  we  have  been  speaking: — 

"  10  May  1654  Be  it  known  unto  all  men  by  these  presents 
that  I  George  Dill,  master  of  the  ship  Goodfellow;  have  sould 
unto  Mr.  Samuel  Symonds  two  of  the  Irish  youthes  I  brought 
over  by  order  of  the  State  of  England,  the  name  of  one  of 
them  is  William  Dalton,  the  other  Edward  Welch,  to  serve  him, 
his  heirs,  executors  or  assignes  for  the  space  of  9  years.  And 
the  said  Samuel  in  consideration  hereof  doth  promise  &  engage 
to  be  paid  unto  the  said  master  the  sum  of  £26  in  corn  mer- 
chantable or  live  cattle  at  or  before  the  end  of  October  next, 
provided  he  give  good  assurance  for  the  enjoying  of  them." 


HILDRETH  307 

At  the  end  of  seven  years  the  "  two  Irish  youthes  " 
ran  away,  or  refused  to  work  any  longer.  It  was  to 
recover  the  two  years'  service,  or  their  value,  that 
the  action  was  brought  in  1661.  The  following  is 
their  reply,  or  defense.  It  will  be  seen  that  their 
names  do  not  agree  with  the  names  mentioned  by  the 
Captain. 

"  1661  To  the  Honoured  Court  &  Jury  now  assembled  the 
humble  defence  of  Wni  Downeing  &  Phihp  Welch  in  the  ac- 
tion between  them  &  their  Master  W™  Symonds;  That  which 
we  say  in  defence  of  ourselves  is  that  we  were  brought  out 
of  our  own  country,  contrary  to  our  own  will  &  minds,  &  sold 
here  to  Mr.  Symonds,  by  ye  ^Master  of  the  ship,  Mr.  Dill,  but 
what  agreement  was  made  between  ;Mr.  Symonds  &  ye  said 
Master,  was  never  acted  by  our  consent  or  knowledge,  yet  not- 
withstanding we  have  endeavoured  to  serve  him  the  best  service 
we  cloud  these  7  conpleat  yeares,  which  is  3  yeares  more  than 
the  Spirits  *  used  to  sell  them  for  at  Barbadoes,  when  they  are 
stolen  in  England,  And  for  our  service  we  have  noe  calling  or 
wages  but  meate  &  cloathes.  Now  7  yeares'  service  being  so 
much  as  is  the  practice  of  old  England,  &  thought  meet  in  this 
place,  &  we  being  ^21  yeares  of  age  we  hope  the  Honored  Court 
&  Jury  will  seriously  consider  our  conditions." 

"Whereas  it  has  been  Represented  to  His  Majesty  that  by 
reason  of  the  frequent  Abuses  of  a  lewd  sort  of  people  called 
Spirits  in  Seducing  many  of  His  Majesty's  Subjects  to  go  on 
Shipboard,  where  they  have  been  Seized  &  Carried  by  Force  to 
His  Majest}''s  Plantations  in  America,  &  that  many  idle  persons, 
who  have  Listed  themselves  voluntarily  to  be  Transported 
thither  &  ha%e  received  money  upon  their  entering  into  Service 
for  that  purpose  have  afterwards  pretended  they  were  Be- 
trayed &  Carried  away  against  their  wills  &  procured  their 
friends  to  prosecute  the  Merchants  who  brought  them,"  &c.  &c. 

"  The  Testuiosty  of  Johjt  Rixg. 

"  This  deponent  saith  that  he  with  divers  others  were  stolen 
in  Ireland  by  some  of  ye  English  soldiers  in  ye  night  out  of 
their  beds  and  brought  to  Mr.  Dill's  ship,  where  the  boate 
lay  ready  to  receive  them  and  in  the  w^ay  as  they  went  some 
others   they  tooke  with  them  against  their  consents   &  brought 

*  "  At  the  Court  held  in  Whitehall,  December  13th,  1682. 


808  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

them  aboard  the  said  ship,  where  there  were  divers  others  of 
their  countrymen,  weeping  &  crying  because  they  were  stolen 
from  their  friends,  they  all  declaring  the  same  &  amongst  the 
rest  were  these  two  men,  W^  Downing  &  Philip  Welch,  & 
there  they  were  kept  until  upon  a  Lord's  day  in  the  morning 
ye  master  set  saile  &  left  some  of  his  vessels  behind  for  haste 
as  I  understood. 

"Sworne  in  Court  26  June  1661." 

There  were   similar   servants   in  the  other  colonies. 
Of  the  hundred  and  five  persons  who  settled  in  Vir- 
ginia     in      1606,      forty-eight      were      "gentlemen," 
"  brought   up    to   esteem     manual     labor     degrading. 
There  were  but  twelve  laborers,  four  carpenters,  and 
four  other  mechanics,  the  rest  were  soldiers  and  ser- 
vants."    In  1608  one  hundred  and  twenty  men  of  the 
same  sort  arrived  in  Virginia ;  "  vagabond  gentlemen, 
unaccustomed  to   labor,   and   disdainful     of    it,     with 
three  or  four  bankrupt  London  jewelers,  goldsmiths, 
and  refiners,   sent  out  to  seek  for  mines."     Governor 
Smith   said   of  them,  that  it  was  better  to  send   out 
thirty   mechanics   than   a   thousand   such   men !      Ser- 
vants  were   indispensable   in   such   a   community.      In 
1613,  the  Governor  of  Virginia  had  for  his  support 
a  plantation  cultivated  by  one  hundred  servants.     In 
1619   ninety   young   women,   "  pure   and   uncorrupt," 
were  sent  out  to  be  disposed  of  as  wives  for  the  plant- 
ers.     The   price  was   a   hundred   pounds   of  tobacco, 
about  seventy -five  dollars.  A  similar   cargo,  the  next 
year,   however,   brought   only   about   half  that   price. 
We  think  that  was  the  last  adventure  of  the  sort  sent 
to  Virginia, —  a   woman   for  fifty  pounds   of  tobacco 
was  certainly  too  cheap. 

About  the  same  time,  by  the  order  of  the  king,  a 
hundred  dissolute  vagabonds  were  taken  from  the  jails 
and  sent  to  Virginia  to  be  disposed  of  as  servants. 
They  were  known  by  the   name  of  "jail-birds."     In 


HILDRETH  309 

1643  the  law  forbade  dealing  with  any  servants  with- 
out consent  of  their  masters,  and  punished  such  as 
married  without  the  master's  consent.  They  once 
planned  an  insurrection  in  Virginia,  which  was  de- 
tected beforehand ;  and  the  13th  of  September,  "  the 
day  the  villanous  plot  should  have  been  put  in  execu- 
tion," was  declared  a  perpetual  holiday. 

"  Servants  '  sold  for  the  custom,'  that  is,  having  no  inden- 
tures, if  over  nineteen  years  of  age,  are  to  serve  five  years;  if 
under  nineteen,  till  twenty- four,  their  ages  to  be  adjudged  by 
the  county  court.  Masters  are  to  provide  '  wholesome  and  com- 
petent diet,  clothing,  and  lodging,  by  the  discretion  of  the 
county  court ; '  nor  shall  they  at  any  time  give  immoderate  cor- 
rection, nor  '  whip  a  Christian  white  servant  naked '  without 
an  order  from  a  justice  of  the  peace,  under  penalty  of  forty 
shillings  to  the  servant,  to  be  recovered  with  costs,  on  complaint 
to  a  justice  of  the  peace,  'without  the  formal  process  of  an 
action.'  Justices  are  bound  to  receive  and  investigate  the  com- 
plaints of  all  servants  '  not  being  slaves.'  Any  resistance  or 
offer  of  violence  on  the  part  of  a  servant  is  punishable  by  an 
additional  year's  servitude.  Servants  are  guaranteed  the  pos- 
session of  such  property  as  may  lawfully  come  to  them  by  gift 
or  otherwise,  but  no  person  may  deal  with  them  except  by  per- 
mission of  their  masters.  In  case  of  fines  inflicted  by  penal 
laws,  unless  some  one  would  pay  the  fines  for  them,  servants 
are  to  be  punished  by  whipping,  at  the  rate  of  twenty  lashes 
for  every  five  hundred  pounds  of  tobacco,  or  fifty  shillings 
sterling,  each  stroke  being  thus  estimated  at  about  sixty  cents. 
Women  servants  having  bastards  are  to  forfeit  to  their  mas- 
ters an  additional  year's  service,  unless  the  master  were  the 
father,  in  which  case  the  forfeiture  accrues  to  the  church- 
wardens. In  case  the  father  were  a  negro  or  mulatto,  other 
penalties  are  added,  as  by  a  law  formerly  mentioned.  The 
provisions  for  the  arrest  of  runaways,  which  are  suflBciently 
stringent,  apply  equally  to  slaves  and  servants,  except  that  out- 
lying slaves  might  be  killed,  and  irreclaimable  runaways  '  dis- 
membered.' " 

Governor  Thomas,  of  Pennsylvania,  enlisted  the  ser- 
vants, in  1740,  into  the  army,  and  many  of  them  never 
returned  to  their  masters,  whom  the  state  indemnified 
for  their  loss.     In  1756  the  colonists  were  much  of- 


BIO  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

fended  because  the  English  government  authorized  the 
enhsting  of  servants,  though  a  compensation  was  given 
to  their  masters.  In  the  revolutionary  war  many  of 
the  soldiers  enlisted  in  the  middle  and  southern  States 
were  "  redemptioners,"  or  servants.  It  was  proposed 
in  Congress  to  direct  a  portion  of  their  pay  to  com- 
pensate the  masters  for  the  loss  of  their  services,  but 
at  the  earnest  request  of  Washington  the  plan  was 
dropped,  and  the  servants  who  enlisted  were  declared 
freemen.  Since  the  Revolution  we  think  there  have 
been  no  servants  of  this  character. 

Some  curious  anecdotes  are  preserved  of  the  shifts 
resorted  to  by  servants  to  escape  from  their  condition. 
A  citizen  from  Ireland  was  once  "  sold  to  pay  his 
passage "  to  America,  and  bought  by  a  farmer  in 
New  England  as  a  servant.  The  farmer  set  him  to 
read  the  Bible  one  Sunday.  He  held  the  book  bot- 
tom upwards,  and  could  not  read.  One  day  he  was 
sent  by  his  master  into  the  woods  to  chop  wood ;  at 
night,  when  he  came  home,  he  was  asked  how  much 
he  had  cut ;  he  said,  "  about  a  bushel."  On  looking, 
it  appears  he  cut  it  up  into  slivers.  When  bade  to 
replenish  the  fire,  he  did  it  with  water.  He  was  found 
of  no  value  for  any  of  the  common  work  of  the  farm, 
and  his  master,  who  lived  on  the  sea-shore,  set  him  to 
tend  the  ducks  and  geese,  to  keep  them  from  wander- 
ing or  being  destroyed,  thinking  it  well,  we  suppose, 
to  set  a  goose  to  watch  a  goose.  At  night,  the  ser- 
vant came  home  with  his  charge,  and  complained  that 
they  must  all  of  them  be  sick,  for,  he  added,  "  they 
have  not  sucked  their  mothers  once  all  day."  His 
master  considered  him  a  fool,  and  finding  him  worth- 
less, refused  to  keep  him.  The  servant  pretended  that 
he  was  afraid  somebody  would  kill  him  unless  his  mas- 


HILDRETH  811 

ter  gave  him  a  legal  discharge,  renouncing  all  claim 
upon  him  whatever.  This  was  done ;  and  within  less 
than  a  week  the  foolish  servant  opened  a  school  in  the 
very  town  where  he  had  been  bought,  and  from  the 
office  of  schoolmaster  rose  to  high  political  stations  in 
New  England,  and  founded  a  family  still  proud  of  his 
name. 

We  cannot  pass  over  the  matter  of  slavery,  to 
which  Mr.  Hildreth  has  directed  much  attention,  and 
which  is  likely  to  be  an  interesting  subject  for  some 
years  to  come.  At  the  time  of  the  settlement  of 
America  the  idea  was  beginning  to  prevail  that  it  was 
wrong  to  hold  Christians  in  bondage,  but  this  ob- 
jection did  not  extend  to  heathens  and  infidels.  It 
was  prudently  discovered  that  the  negroes  were  the 
descendants  of  Ham,  and  the  inheritors  of  the  curse 
of  the  mythological  Noah.  Who  so  fit  for  bondmen 
as  the  negroes  ?  It  conduced  to  "  godliness  "  to  make 
them  slaves,  as  well  as  to  "  great  gain."  The  same 
year  in  which  the  Pilgrims  came  to  Plj^mouth,  twenty 
negroes  were  brought  to  Virginia  as  slaves  for  life, 
no  doubt  to  the  great  comfort  of  the  "  gentlemen  " 
there.  It  is  not  long  before  we  find  them  in  New 
England;  not  long  before  Boston  is  concerned  in  the 
slave-trade,  from  which  she  is  not  yet  become  free; 
for  while  we  are  writing  this  paper,  we  learn  that  a 
ship  from  Boston,  the  "  Lucy  Anne,"  has  lately  been 
seized,  loaded  with  five  hundred  and  forty-seven 
slaves !  Another  vessel  from  the  same  port,  the  "  Pi- 
lot," is  also  in  British  custody  for  the  same  offense. 
The  actual  seizure  of  five  hundred  and  forty-seven 
slaves  in  Africa  is  by  no  means  the  most  infamous  part 
of  the  support  which  this  city  furnishes  to  slavery, 
only  one  of  the  obvious  indications   of  a   spirit  well 


812  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

known  to  exist  in  Boston,  and  by  no  means  confined  to 
**  illiterate  and  profane  persons."  The  laws  of  Mass- 
achusetts, in  1641,  justified  enslaving  "  captives  taken 
in  just  wars,  and  such  strangers  as  willingly  sell  them- 
selves  or  are  sold  unto  us." 

In  1662  Virginia  revised  the  rule  of  the  common 
law,  and  declared  that  children  should  follow  the  con- 
dition of  their  mother.  All  the  Southern  states  have 
since  adopted  the  same  iniquitous  provision.  In  1663 
Maryland  made  a  law  that  the  child  of  a  free  white 
woman  shall  follow  the  condition  of  the  father  if  he 
be  a  slave ;  this  was  repealed  a  few  years  later,  but 
a  fine  of  ten  thousand  pounds  of  tobacco  was  imposed 
on  the  clergymen  or  the  masters  and  mistresses  who 
promoted  or  connived  at  the  marriage  of  such  persons. 

In  1667  Virginia  declared  that  Christianity  was  no 
bar  to  slavery,  but  the  slave  should  not  escape  from 
bondage  by  communion  and  baptism ;  killing  a  slave 
was  declared  not  felony.  Indians  "  imported  by  ship- 
ping," and  not  Christians,  might  be  slaves  for  life. 
In  1671,  there  were  two  thousand  "  black  slaves  "  in 
Virginia,  and  six  thousand  "  Christian  servants,"  of 
whom  about  fifteen  hundred  were  imported  yearly. 
In  1682  all  negroes,  mulattoes,  or  Indians,  brought 
into  the  colony  by  sea  or  land.  Christians  or  not, 
were  declared  slaves  for  life,  unless  they  were  of  Chris- 
tian parentage  or  country.  In  1692  an  "  act  for  sup- 
pressing outlying  slaves  "  declares  that,  if  they  resist, 
run  awa}'^,  or  refuse  to  surrender,  "  they  may  be  law- 
fully killed  or  destroyed  with  guns,  or  any  other  way 
whatever."  The  state  was  to  indemnify  the  master 
for  the  loss,  giving  four  thousand  pounds  of  tobacco 
for  a  negro.  A  thousand  pounds  of  tobacco  were  of- 
fered to  any  one  who  should  kill  a  certain  runaway, 


HILDRETH  313 

the  "  negro  slave  Billy."  In  1705  laws  were  passed 
to  prevent  intermarriages  between  blacks  and  whites, 
and  against  emancipating  slaves.  Summary  tribunals 
were  established  for  the  trial  of  slaves,  "  without  the 
solemnity  of  a  jury."  They  were  to  be  kept  in  jail, 
"  well  laden  with  irons."  Even  in  Pennsylvania, 
William  Penn  could  not  secure  the  right  of  equal  mar- 
riage for  slaves  !  As  slaves  increased  —  and  about  one 
thousand  were  annually  imported  into  Virginia  in 
1720,  and  for  some  time  after  —  the  laws  became  more 
rigorous.  It  was  made  more  difficult  to  set  them  free. 
South  Carolina  has  always  been  remarkable  for  the 
rigor  of  her  slave  laws.  In  1670,  the  "  fundamental 
and  unalterable  constitution  "  provided  that  every 
freeman  "  shall  have  obsolute  power  and  authority 
over  his  negro  slaves."  In  1701<  we  find  one  James 
Moore  a  "  needy,  forward,  and  ambitious  man,"  kid- 
napping Indians  to  sell  as  slaves.  Many  others  did 
the  same  in  1712  on  a  large  scale,  taking  eight  hun- 
dred at  one  time,  and  re-annexing  Indian  villages.  A 
law  was  made  the  same  year  making  it  the  duty  of 
every  person  to  arrest  any  slave  found  abroad  without 
a  pass,  and  give  him  "  moderate  chastisement."  A 
slave  guilty  of  petty  larceny,  for  the  first  offense,  was 
to  be  "  publicly  and  severely  whipped ;"  for  the  sec- 
ond, "  one  of  his  ears  to  be  cut  off,"  or  "  be  branded 
on  the  forehead  with  a  hot  iron ;"  for  the  third,  he  was 
"  to  have  his  nose  slit ;"  for  the  fourth,  to  "  suffer 
death,  or  other  punishment,"  at  the  discretion  of  the 
court.  Any  two  justices  of  the  peace,  with  three  free- 
holders whom  they  might  summon,  formed  a  court  for 
the  trial  of  any  slave,  charged  with  any  crime,  from 
"  chicken-stealing  "  to  insurrection  and  murder ;  and 
was  competent  to  sentence  the  accused  to  punishment, 


314.  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

even  if  it  were  death,  and  have  it  executed  forthwith, 
on  their  warrant  alone!  This  mode  of  trial  remains 
in  force  in  South  Carolina  till  this  day.  It  was  a 
capital  crime  for  a  slave  to  run  out  of  the  province, 
or  for  a  white  man  to  entice  him  to  do  so. 

"  Any  slave  running  away  for  twenty  days  at  once,  for  the 
first  offense  was  to  be  '  severely  and  publicly  whipped.'  In  case 
the  master  neglected  to  inflict  this  punishment,  any  justice 
might  order  it  to  be  inflicted  by  the  constable,  at  the  master's 
expense.  For  the  second  offense,  the  runaway  was  to  be 
branded  with  the  letter  R  on  the  right  cheek.  If  the  master 
omitted  it,  he  was  to  forfeit  ten  pounds,  and  any  justice  of 
the  peace  might  order  the  branding  done.  For  the  third  of- 
fense, the  runaway,  if  absent  thirty  days,  was  to  be  whipped, 
and  have  one  of  his  ears  cut  off;  the  master  neglecting  to  do 
it  to  forfeit  twenty  pounds;  any  justice,  on  complaint,  to  order 
it  done  as  before.  For  the  fourth  offence,  the  runaway,  '  if  a 
man,  was  to  be  gelt,'  to  be  paid  for  by  the  province,  if  he  died 
under  the  operation;  if  a  woman,  she  was  to  be  severely 
whipped,  branded  on  the  left  cheek  with  the  letter  R,  and  her 
left  ear  cut  off.  Any  master  neglecting  for  twenty  days  to 
inflict  these  atrocious  cruelties  was  to  forfeit  his  property  in 
the  slave  to  any  informer  who  might  complain  of  him  within 
six  months.  Any  captain  or  commander  of  a  company,  '  on 
notice  of  the  haunt,  residence,  and  hiding-place  of  any  run- 
away slaves,'  was  '  to  pursue,  apprehend,  and  take  them,  either 
alive  or  dead,'  being  in  either  case  entitled  to  a  premium  of 
from  two  to  four  pounds  for  each  slave.  All  persons  wounded 
or  disabled  on  such  expeditions  were  to  be  compensated  by  the 
public.  If  any  slave  under  punishment  '  shall  suffer  in  life  or 
member,  which,'  says  the  act,  '  seldom  happens,  no  person  what- 
soever shall  be  liable  to  any  penalty  therefor.'  Any  person 
killing  a  slave  out  of  '  wantonness,'  '  bloody-mindedness,'  or 
*  cruel  intention,'  was  to  forfeit  '  fifty  pounds  current  money,' 
or  if  the  slave  belonged  to  another  person,  twenty-five  pounds 
to  the  public,  and  the  slave's  value  to  the  owner.  No  master 
was  to  allow  his  slaves  to  hire  their  own  time,  or,  by  a  supple- 
mentary act,  two  years  after,  '  to  plant  for  themselves  any 
corn,  pease,  or  rice,  or  to  keep  any  stock  of  hogs,  cattle,  or 
horses.' " 

" '  Since  charity  and  the  Christian  religion  which  we  profess,' 
says  the  concluding  section  of  this  remarkable  act,  '  obliges  us 
to  wish  well  to  the  souls  of  men,  and  that  religion  may  not  be 


HILDRETH  315 

made  a  pretence  to  alter  any  man's  property  and  right,  and 
that  no  person  may  neglect  to  baptize  their  negroes  or  slaves 
for  fear  that  thereby  they  should  be  manumitted  and  set  free, 
'  it  shall  be  and  is  hereby  declared  lawful  for  any  negro  or 
Indian  slave,  or  any  other  slave  or  slaves  whatsoever,  to  re- 
ceive and  profess  the  Christian  faith,  and  to  be  thereunto  bap- 
tized; but  notwithstanding  such  slave  or  slaves  shall  receive  or 
profess  the  Christian  religion,  and  be  baptized,  he  or  they  shall 
not  thereby  be  manumitted  or  set  free." 

"  South  Carolina,  it  thus  appears,  assumed  at  the  beginning 
the  same  bad  pre-eminence  on  the  subject  of  slave  legislation 
which  she  still  maintains." 

At  this  day,  no  man  in  South  Carohna  can  be  elected 
as  representative  to  the  Assembly,  unless  legally  seized 
and  possessed  of  ten  slaves  in  his  own  right. 

At  first,  slavery  was  not  permitted  in  Georgia ;  but 
many  of  the  settlers  of  that  province  were  taken  from 
workhouses,  from  debtors'  prisons,  and  even  worse 
places ;  "  selected  from  the  most  helpless,  querulous, 
and  grasping  portion  of  the  community,"  "  broken 
traders  and  insolvent  debtors,"  men  "  found  in  the  end 
as  worthless  as  they  were  discontented  and  trouble- 
some." "  They  were  very  importunate,"  says  Mr. 
Hildreth,  "  for  permission  to  hold  slaves,  without 
whose  labors  they  insisted  lands  in  Georgia  could  not 
be  cultivated." 

" '  Most  of  the  early  settlers  were  altogether  unworthy  of  the 
assistance  they  received,'  so  says  Stevens,  a  recent  and  judicious 
native  historian  of  the  colony,  who  has  written  from  very  full 
materials.  '  They  were  disappointed  in  the  quality  and  fertility 
of  their  lands;  were  unwilling  to  labour,  hung  for  support  upon 
the  trustees'  store,  were  clamorous  for  privileges  to  which  they 
had  no  right,  and  fomented  discontent  and  faction  where  it 
was  hoped  they  would  live  together  in  brotherly  peace  and 
charity.'  What  wonder  that  men  so  idle,  thriftless,  and  un- 
grateful, called  loudly  for  slaves,  whose  impaid  labours  might 
support  them  for  life?" 

So  they  had  their  slavery,  and  thereby  Georgia 
lattained  her  present  condition  and  prospects ! 


S16  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

The  gradual  progress  of  liberty  is  remarkable  in 
New  England.  Hubbard,  with  the  spirit  of  a  priest, 
complains  of  the  "  inordinate  love  of  liberty  or  fear  of 
restraint,  especially  in  matters  of  religion,"  which 
prevailed  in  1647,  and  speaks  of  "  all  that  rabble  of 
men  that  went  under  the  name  of  Independents, 
whether  Anabapists,  Antinomians,  Familists,  or  Seek- 
ers," with  the  same  theocratic  contempt  now  exhibited 
by  sectarian  bigotry  and  personal  malice,  which  has 
not  the  power  to  bite,  and  only  barks  at  the  freemen 
of  God,  who  go  on  their  way  rejoicing.  There  are 
in  New  England  two  visible  bulwarks  of  liberty  —  the 
free  school  and  the  free  printing  press.  In  1639  the 
first  printing  press  in  America  was  set  up  at  Cam- 
bridge. However  it  was  kept  under  a  strict  censor- 
ship, and  no  other  was  for  a  long  time  allowed  to  be 
set  up.  The  first  three  things  printed  are  symbolical 
of  New  England ;  the  "  Freeman's  Oath "  was  the 
proof -shot  of  the  press,  then  came  an  "  Almanac 
made  for  New  England,"  then  the  "  Psalms  turned  in- 
to Metre,"  also  "  made  for  New  England,"  by  men 
who  knew  how  to 

"  Crack  the  ear  of  melody, 
And  break  the  legs  of  time." 

The  freedom  of  the  press  was  not  allowed,  however, 
for  a  long  time.  Andros  was  to  allow  no  printing  in 
1686;  King  Wilham  also  forbade  it  in  1688.  In  1719 
Governor  Shute  objected  to  the  printing  of  an  obnox- 
ious paper  by  the  order  of  the  General  Court,  declar- 
ing that  he  had  power  over  the  press,  and  would  pre- 
vent it.  The  paper  was  printed ;  the  Governor  wished 
to  prosecute  the  printer,  but  the  Attorney-General 
could  find  no  law  on  which  to  frame  an  indictment. 
This  was  by  no  means  the  last  instance  of  an  attempt 


HILDRETH  317 

by  men  "  clothed  with  a  Httle  brief  authority "  to 
shackle  the  freedom  of  the  press.  The  attempt  has 
been  repeated  in  Massachusetts  in  our  own  day,  but 
what  was  once  dangerous  is  now  simply  laughable. 
A  donkey  bracing  himself  against  a  locomotive  is  not 
a  very  formidable  antagonist,  yet  he  might  have  over- 
turned the  "  Ark  of  Jehovah  "  when  drawn  by  "  two 
heifers  "  with  no  one  to  guide  them. 

In  1682  a  printing  press  was  established  in  Vir- 
ginia, and  the  laws  of  that  year  were  printed.  But 
the  governor,  Culpepper,  put  the  printer  under  bonds 
to  print  nothing  till  his  majesty's  pleasure  should  be 
known.  The  next  year.  King  James  II  forbade  any 
printing  press  in  the  colony,  and  Virginia  had  none 
till  1729. 

In  1687  the  third  printing  press  was  set  up  at 
Philadelphia.     The  fourth  was  at  New  York,  in  1692. 

The  first  newspaper  in  America  was  estabhshed  at 
Boston,  in  1704,  only  containing  advertisements  and 
items  of  news ;  a  regular  newspaper,  discussing  public 
affairs,  was  begun  here  in  1722,  conducted  by  James 
Franklin ;  "  but  it  perished  for  want  of  support,"  says 
Mr.  Hildreth,  "  ominous  fate  of  the  first  free  press  in 
America !  " 

The  records  of  Boston  contain  this  entry,  under  date 
of  April  13,  1635 :  "  It  was  then  generally  agreed 
upon,  that  our  brother  Philemon  Purmont  shall  be  in- 
structed to  become  schoolmaster  for  the  teaching  and 
nurturing  of  children  with  us."  It  does  not  appear 
that  he  kept  a  free  school.  In  1638  Harvard  College 
was  established.  Private  benefactions  and  public  gifts 
helped  endow  this  first  collegiate  institution  in  Amer- 
ica. In  1642  the  General  Court  passed  a  law  making 
it  the  duty  of  the  selectmen  to  see  that  every  child 


318  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

was  taught  "  perfectly  to  read  the  English  tongue ;" 
a  fine  of  twenty  shillings  for  each  neglect  was  im- 
posed. Thus  was  an  attempt  made  to  render  education 
universal,  and,  in  164)7,  a  law  was  passed  making  it  al- 
so free ;  every  town  of  fifty  families  was  to  have  a 
teacher  to  instruct  all  the  children  in  common  branches, 
and  each  town  of  a  hundred  families  was  commanded 
to  "  set  up  a  grammar  school  "  where  lads  might  be 
"  fitted  for  the  University."  At  that  time  Massachu- 
setts contained  about  twenty  thousand  inhabitants, 
and  the  entire  property  of  the  whole  people,  the  valua- 
tion of  the  colony,  could  hardly  amount  to  more  than 
two  or  three  millions  of  dollars.  This  is  the  first  at- 
tempt in  the  world  to  provide  by  law  for  the  public 
education  of  the  people  on  such  a  scale.  The  Mass- 
achusetts system  was  soon  adopted  at  Plymouth  and 
New  Haven.  In  this  law  we  find  an  explanation  of 
much  of  the  prosperity  of  New  England,  and  the  in- 
fluence she  has  exerted  on  America  and  the  world. 

Another  important  thing  in  our  history  is  the  trade 
of  the  country.  New  England  early  manifested  the 
Yankee  fondness  for  trade  and  manufactures.  In 
1634  there  were  watermills  at  Roxbury  and  Dorches- 
ter, windmills  in  other  places.  Vessels  were  built,  the 
"  Blessing  of  the  Bay,"  and  the  "  Rebecca,"  and  a 
trade  began  with  New  York,  with  Virginia,  and  the 
West  Indies.  In  1675  the  little  ships  of  New  England 
stole  along  the  coasts  of  America,  trafficing  with 
Maryland,  Virginia,  Carolina,  Antigua,  and  Barba- 
does,  or  boldly  stemmed  the  Atlantic  wave,  sailing 
to  England,  Holland,  Spain,  or  Italy.  The  jealousy, 
the  fear  and  hate  with  which  New  England  enter- 
prise, on  land  or  sea,  was  met  in  Old  England  b}^  the 
merchants   and   the   government   of  Britain   would   be 


HILDRETH  319 

astonishing  at  this  day,  if  vre  did  not  see  the  same 
bigotry  and  toryism  reproduced  in  New  England  it- 
self at  the  present  time.  But  we  have  not  space  to 
dwell  on  this  theme. 

It  is  curious  to  see  how  early  the  habit  of  self-reli- 
ance got  established  in  New  England.  Every  man 
was  a  soldier,  every  church  member  a  citizen  in  full. 
Soon,  all  men  were  able  to  read  and  write.  Necessity 
at  first  forced  them  to  rely  on  "  God,  and  their  own 
right  arm."  By  and  by,  when  the  mother  country 
interferred,  she  found  a  child  not  accustomed  to  sub- 
mission. 

But  we  must  pass  away  from  this  theme,  and  pass 
over  many  other  matters  of  interest  touched  upon  by 
Mr.  Hildreth  in  this  work,  and  speak  of  his  book  in 
general,  and  in  special.  It  strikes  us  that,  on  the 
whole,  the  history  of  the  colonial  and  provincial  period 
is  better  and  more  happil}^  treated  than  that  of  the 
Revolution.  Everywhere  we  see  marks  of  the  same 
intellectual  vigor  which  distinguishes  the  former  writ- 
ings of  Mr.  Hildreth.  There  is  a  strength  and  fresh- 
ness in  his  style.  He  writes  in  the  interest  of  mankind, 
and  not  for  any  portion  thereof.  He  allows  no  local 
attachment,  or  reverence  for  men  or  classes  of  men,  to 
keep  him  from  telling  the  truth  as  he  finds  it.  He 
exhibits  the  good  and  evil  qualities  of  the  settlers  of 
the  United  States  with  the  same  coolness  and  impar- 
tiality. His  work  is  almost  wholly  objective, —  giving 
the  facts,  not  his  opinions  about  the  facts.  He  shows 
two  things  as  they  have  not  been  exposed  before, — 
the  bigoted  character  of  the  settlers  of  New  England, 
and  the  early  history  and  gradual  development  of 
slavery  in  the  South.  His  book  is  written  in  the  spirit 
of  democracy,  which  continually  appears  in  spite  of 
the  author. 


320  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

We  must  say  something  of  its  faults  of  matter  and 
of  form.  The  division  into  chapters,  it  seems  to  us, 
is  not  uniformly  well  made;  sometimes  this  division 
disturbs  the  unity  of  the  subject.  He  gives  us  too 
little  of  the  philosophical  part  of  history ;  too  little, 
perhaps,  of  the  ornamental.  He  lacks  the  pic- 
turesqueness  of  style  which  makes  history  so  attractive 
in  some  authors.  He  does  not  give  the  student  his 
authorities  in  the  margin,  as  it  seems  to  us  he  ought 
to  do.  His  dates  are  not  always  to  be  relied  upon. 
We  notice  some  errors,  the  results  of  haste,  which 
we  trust  he  will  correct  in  a  second  edition.  Thus, 
he  says  that  Locke  maintained  that  men's  souls,  "  mor- 
tal by  generation,  are  made  immortal  by  Christ's  pur- 
chase." It  is  well  known  that  this  was  the  opinion  of 
Dodwell,  who  makes  baptism  a  condition  sine  qua  non 
of  immortality,  but  we  have  never  found  the  doctrine 
in  Locke, 

In  Volume  11.  he  omits  some  important  particulars. 
The  provincial  troops,  who  comprised  the  entire  land 
forces,  were  deprived  of  all  share  of  the  prize  money, 
which  amounted  to  one  million  pounds.  The  land 
forces  were  entitled  to  the  greater  part  of  it  but  got 
none ;  the  expense  of  these  forces  remained  a  long  time 
a  heavy  burden  on  the  colonies,  and  especially  on 
Massachusetts.  Commodore  Warren  and  the  naval 
forces  kept  the  whole  of  the  prize  money,  which  was 
contrary  to  all  law,  usage,  and  equity. 

He  calls  Lord  Grenville  "  Bute's  chancellor  of  the 
exchequer."  George  Grenville  was  chancellor  of  the 
exchequer,  but  was  never  a  lord.  Bute  was  never  in 
the  ministry.  George  Grenville  was  not  of  the  party 
called  "  king's  friends,"  as  Mr.  Hildreth  intimates. 

Dean  Tucker  is  called  "  author  of  the  Light  of  Na- 


HILDRETH  321 

ture,"  which  was  written  by  a  country  gentleman  re- 
joicing in  the  name  of  Abraham  Tucker,  with  a  hter- 
ary  aliaSy  Edward  Search. 

*'  The  private  sentiments  of  Lord  North  were  not 
materially  different  from  those  of  Chatham."  They 
differed  in  almost  every  material  point, —  as  to  the 
right  of  taxation,  and  the  expediency  of  asserting  it 
by  force. 

The  bridge  spoken  of  was  in  Salem,  not  between 
Salem  and  Danvers ;  it  was  not  a  company  of  militia 
under  Colonel  Pickering,  but  a  party  of  citizens.* 

The  praise  of  Arnold  appears  excessive.  He  was 
hardly  "  one  of  the  most  honored  [officers]  in  the 
American  army."  He  was  distinguished  for  courage 
more  than  conduct,  and  not  at  all  for  integrity. 

He  speaks  of  an  intercepted  letter,  which  "  seemed 
to  impl}'^  a  settled  policy,  on  the  part  of  France,  to 
exclude  the  Americans  from  the  fisheries  and  the 
Western  lands."  Mr.  Sparks,  in  his  Life  of  Frank- 
Hn,  has  successfully  vindicated  the  French  court  from 
the  charge  of  ill  faith  in  these  negotiations. t 

He  rehes  on  John  Adams'  letter  to  Cushing  as  au- 
thority for  an  odious  sentiment  ascribed  to  Mr.  Adams. 
This  letter  was  a  forgery,  and  was  so  pronounced  by 
Mr.  Adams  himself,  in  a  letter  written  at  the  close 
of  his  administration,  dated  the  4th  of  March,  1801, 
and  published  extensively  in  the  newspapers  of  that 
period.     It  is  in  the  Columbian  Cent'iTiel. 

These  are  slight  blemishes,  which  may  easily  be  cor- 
rected in  a  new  edition.  On  the  whole,  this  history 
must  be  regarded  as  a  work  of  much  value  and  im- 
portance.    It  is  written  in  the  American  spirit,  in  a 

*Vol.   3,  p.   66 
t  Ibid,  p.  418. 
11—21 


322  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

style  always  brief  but  always  clear,  without  a  single 
idle  word.  We  look  with  high  expectations  for  the 
volume  which  will  bring  the  history  down  to  our  own 
times. 


VII 

MACAULAY'S  HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND 

Perhaps  there  is  no  period  in  the  annals  of  man- 
kind of  more  interest  to  EngHshmen  and  Americans 
than  the  one  comprised  in  the  plan  of  Macaulay's 
history,  from  the  accession  of  James  II  till  near  the 
present  time,  and  certainly  no  one  standing  in  so 
much  need  of  a  good  historian.  We  know  of  no  good 
history  of  England  for  the  last  one  hundred  and  sixty 
years,  since  the  termination  of  Hume's.  When  it  was 
understood  that  Macaulay  had  undertaken  his  work, 
it  was  a  subject  of  general  congratulation.  All  were 
pleased  that  so  important  and  difficult  a  work  had 
fallen  to  the  lot  of  perhaps  the  only  man  of  the  age 
who  was  supposed  to  have  the  learning  and  genius 
required   for   the   task. 

Mr.  Macaulay  is  well  known  as  the  most  popular 
and  able  reviewer  of  the  present  or  perhaps  of  any 
past  time.  Many  of  his  articles  in  the  Edinburgh 
Review  are  of  permanent  value,  and  have  been  re- 
published here  in  a  separate  work.  There  may 
be  articles  in  that  Review  that  display  more  profound 
and  exact  knowledge  in  some  departments,  but  there 
are  none  so  eagerly  sought  for,  none  that  combine  so 
much  varied  and  extensive  information  on  subjects  of 
general  interest,  presented  in  so  popular  and  captivat- 
ing a  style. 

It  is  rare  that  any  man  combines  so  many  essential 
qualifications  and  so  many  accidental  advantages  for 
writing  a  history  of  England.     In  addition  to  great 

323 


S24i  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

learning  and  talent  as  an  author,  he  is  eminently  a 
practical  man,  well  acquainted  with  the  world  and  its 
affairs.  His  public  life  for  many  years  as  a  mem- 
ber of  Parliament  and  a  part  of  the  time  one  of  the 
Ministry  and  of  the  Cabinet,  has  made  him  intimately 
acquainted  wth  politicians  and  statesmen,  and  given 
him  an  opportunity  of  knowing  from  his  own  experience 
how  the  business  of  government  is  carried  on.  We 
believe,  too,  that  he  had  the  reputation  of  being  one 
of  the  best  speakers  in  the  House  of  Commons,  and 
combines  the  powers  of  speaking  well  and  writing 
well,  so  rarely  found  united  since  the  days  of  Cicero. 

This  work  is  more  entertaining,  and  contains  more 
of  what  we  wish  to  know,  than  any  other  history  of 
the  times ;  though  it  appears  to  us  that  the  author 
is  sometimes  liable  to  the  charge  of  prolixity,  and 
dvv'ells  too  long  in  illustrating  a  proposition  and  in  nar- 
ration and  description.  The  characters  of  eminent 
men  are  delineated  with  great  skill  and  much  life,  but 
are  sometimes  drawn  out  to  an  immoderate  length. 
He  seems  desirous  to  give  a  view  so  full  and  complete 
of  every  part  of  his  subject,  as  not  only  to  prevent 
the  possibility  of  being  misunderstood,  but  also  to 
save  the  reader  all  the  trouble  of  thinking  or  making 
any  conclusion  for  himself.  Nothing  can  be  more 
opposite  to  the  manner  of  Tacitus,  though  they  agree 
in  one  respect,  in  fondness  for  point  and  antithesis. 

His  style  is  clear  and  pointed,  as  well  as  beautiful 
and  brilliant.  Perhaps  the  splendor  is  not  always 
genuine,  and  sometimes,  contrary  to  the  rhetorical 
maxim,  resembles  that  of  tinsel  rather  than  the  bright- 
ness of  poHshed  steel. 

The  extent  and  minuteness  of  his  knowledge  of  facts 
are  indeed  wonderful,  and  we  know  not  where  to  find 


MACAULAY 


325 


anything  like  it  in  any  readable  English  history. 
His  impartiality,  a  .quality  so  essential  to  the  histo- 
rian, in  his  account  of  the  different  religious  sects  and 
political  parties,  is  very  conspicuous.  The  Church  of 
Rome  and  the  Church  of  England,  Presbyterians,  In- 
dependents, and  Quakers,  are  brought  in  review  be- 
fore him,  and  their  errors  and  faults  exposed  with 
a  bold  and  unsparing  hand.  We  think  he  endeavors 
to  preserve  the  same  impartiality  between  the  Cavaliers 
and  Roundheads,  and  the  Whigs  and  Tories.  But  we 
imagine  that  the  zealous  partisans  of  all  the  religious 
sects  will  be  dissatisfied  with  his  account  of  their  con- 
duct and  principles,  and  that  no  political  party  will 
be  entirely  satisfied,  unless  it  be  the  moderate,  aris- 
tocratic Whigs. 

If  we  were  to  object  at  all  to  his  views  of  parties 
and  sects,  it  would  be  that  he  may  not  have  done  full 
justice  to  the  religious  or  political  principles  of  the 
Independents,  the  only  sect  of  that  day  that  seems 
to  have  had  any  just  notions  of  religious  freedom  or 
toleration.  It  was  the  Independents  alone  who  pre- 
vented the  Presbyterians,  at  the  termination  of  the 
Civil  War,  from  establishing  a  system  of  religious  in- 
tolerance and  persecution  as  odious  as  that  from  which 
they  had  just  been  delivered.  Cromwell,  Vane,  Sel- 
den,  and  Milton  were  for  liberty  of  conscience  and 
toleration  in  religious  worship.  The  Presbyterians 
wished  to  succeed  the  ecclesiastical  tyrants  whom  the 
joint  arms  of  the  Independents  and  Presbyterians  had 
recently  overthrown.  Milton  had  just  reason  to  com- 
plain that 

"  New  Presbyter  is  but  old 
Priest  writ  large." 


S26  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

The  first  three  chapters,  including  the  greater  part 
of  the  first  volume,  are  introductory,  intended  to  pre- 
pare the  reader  for  beginning  the  history  with  the 
reign  of  James  II.  The  first  chapter  contains  a 
rapid  sketch  of  English  history  from  the  earliest  times 
to  the  Restoration,  or  accession  of  Charles  II.  He 
dwells  a  little  more  at  length  on  the  contest  between 
Charles  and  the  parliament,  the  Civil  War,  the  ad- 
ministration of  Cromwell,  and  the  Restoration. 

The  second  chapter  is  devoted  to  the  reign  of 
Charles  II,  a  knowledge  of  which  is  indispensable  to 
a  good  understanding  of  the  reign  of  James,  and  of 
the  revolution  which  hurled  the  Stuarts  from  the 
throne  of  England,  and  condemned  them  to  perpetual 
exile. 

The  third  chapter  contains  a  description  at  length 
of  the  times  when  the  crown  passed  from  Charles  II 
to  James,  and  a  comparison  between  that  and  its 
present  condition.  It  contains  a  view  of  the  very  great 
advance  which  has  been  made  in  almost  all  the  parti- 
culars thought  most  desirable  in  national  prosperity 
and  the  well-being  of  individuals,  including  a  high 
degree  of  physical,  moral,  and  intellectual  improve- 
ment. 

This  description  has  been  mentioned  as  being  out  of 
place  in  a  history,  but  we  think  it  the  most  important 
as  well  as  entertaining  in  the  whole  work,  the  one 
we  should  be  most  unwilling  to  spare.  Voltaire  justly 
complains  that  "  the  history  of  Europe  in  his  time  was 
grown  to  an  endless  register  of  marriages,  genealo- 
gies, and  disputed  titles,  which  render  the  narrative 
obscure  and  unentertaining,  at  the  same  time  that  they 
stifle  the  memory  of  great  events,  together  with  the 
knowledge  of  laws  and  manners,  objects  more  worthy 


MACAULAY  327 

of  attention."  Whatever  may  be  the  defects  of  his 
historical  productions,  Voltaire  has  the  great  merit 
of  leading  the  way  in  the  attention  now  commonly 
paid  by  historical  writers  to  laws,  manners,  and  cus- 
toms, to  the  progress  of  the  liberal  and  useful  arts, 
and  especially  to  the  condition  of  the  people.  The  at- 
tention of  the  reader  is  no  longer  exclusively  directed 
to  kings  and  princes,  ministers,  ambassadors,  and  gen- 
erals, as  if  all  he  rest  of  the  world  were  of  no  conse- 
quence to  the  historian  or  reader. 

Mr.  Macaulay  has  on  the  whole,  we  think,  been 
very  successful  in  this  account,  and  has  given  a  very 
picturesque  description  of  the  condition  of  England 
one  hundred  and  sixty  years  ago,  and  a  very  favorable 
one  of  England  at  present.  We  are  not  disposed  to 
call  in  question  the  general  fidelity  of  these  pictures, 
but  we  think  the  former  is  somewhat  overcharged,  and 
the  latter  may,  perhaps,  be  deemed  a  little  flattering. 
Indeed,  we  think  it  must  be  apparent  to  most  readers, 
that  some  exaggeration  in  description  is  not  very  un- 
common with  Macaulay.  We  do  not  mention  this  as 
detracting  from  the  general  merit  of  the  work,  and  if 
there  is  occasionally  any  exaggeration  in  his  descrip- 
tions, or  error  in  his  conclusions,  we  think  that  the 
author,  by  a  full  and  accurate  statement  of  all  the 
facts  that  can  be  ascertained,  generally  affords  the  in- 
telligent reader  the  means  of  forming  a  correct  opinion 
for  himself.  Some  traces  are  occasionally  visible  of 
the  rhetorician  and  of  the  eloquent  debater  in  the 
House  of  Commons ;  sometimes  he  discusses  questions 
in  the  style  of  an  advocate  for  one  party,  but  in  these 
the  decision  is  commonly  that  of  the  calm  and  im- 
partial historian. 

The   following    is    the    character   of    Cranmer,   the 


S28  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

principal  founder  of  the  English  church  and  one  of 
its  chief  mart^'^rs,  and  considered  the  leader  of  the 
Protestant  party. 

"  The  man  who  took  the  chief  part  in  settling  the  conditions 
of  the  alliance  which  produced  the  Anglican  Church  was 
Thomas  Cranmer.  He  was  the  representative  of  both  the  par- 
ties, which,  at  that  time,  needed  each  other's  assistance.  He 
was  at  once  a  divine  and  a  statesman.  In  his  character  of 
divine  he  was  perfectly  ready  to  go  as  far  in  the  way  of 
change  as  any  Swiss  or  Scottish  reformer.  In  his  character 
of  statesman  he  was  desirous  to  preserve  that  organization 
which  had,  during  many  ages,  admirably  served  the  purposes 
of  the  bishops  of  Rome,  and  might  be  expected  now  to  serve 
equally  well  the  purposes  of  the  English  kings  and  of  their 
ministers.  His  temper  and  his  understanding  eminently  fitted 
him  to  act  as  mediator.  Saintly  in  his  professions,  unscrupu- 
lous in  his  dealings,  zealous  for  nothing,  bold  in  speculation,  a 
coward  and  a  time-server  in  action,  a  placable  enemy  and  a 
lukewarm  friend,  he  was  in  every  way  qualified  to  arrange  the 
terms  of  the  coalition  between  the  religious  and  the  worldly 
enemies  of  popery. 

"  To  this  day,  the  constitution,  the  doctrines,  and  the  services 
of  the  church  retain  the  visible  marks  of  the  compromise  from 
which  she  sprang.  She  occupies  a  middle  position  between 
the  churches  of  Rome  and  Geneva.  Her  doctrinal  confes- 
sions and  discourses,  composed  by  Protestants,  set  forth  prin- 
ciples of  theology  in  which  Calvin  or  Knox  would  have  found 
scarcely  a  word  to  disapprove.  Her  prayers  and  thanksgivings, 
derived  from  the  ancient  Liturgies,  are  very  generally  such 
that  Bishop  Fisher  or  Cardinal  Pole  might  have  heartily 
joined  in  them.  A  controversialist  who  puts  an  Arminian 
sense  on  her  articles  and  homilies  will  be  pronounced  by  candid 
men  to  be  as  unreasonable  as  a  controversialist  who  denies  that 
the  doctrine  of  baptismal  regeneration  can  be  discovered  in 
her  Liturgy. 

"  The  Church  of  Rome  held  that  episcopacy  was  of  divine 
institution,  and  that  certain  supernatural  graces  of  a  high 
order  had  been  transmitted  by  the  imposition  of  hands  through 
fifty  generations,  from  the  eleven  who  received  their  commis- 
sion on  the  Galilean  Mount  to  the  Bishops  who  met  at  Trent. 
A  large  body  of  Protestants,  on  the  other  hand,  regarded 
prelacy  as  positively  unlawful,  and  persuaded  themselves  that 
they  found  a  very  different  form  of  ecclesiastical  government 
prescribed  in  Scripture.     The  founders  of  the  Anglican  Church 


MACAULAY  829 

took  a  middle  course.  They  retained  episcopacy,  but  they  did 
not  declare  it  to  be  an  institution  essential  to  the  welfare  of  a 
Christian  society,  or  to  the  efficacy  of  the  sacraments.  Cran- 
mer,  indeed,  plainly  avowed  his  conviction  that,  in  the  primitive 
times,  there  was  no  distinction  between  bishops  and  priests, 
and  that  the  laying  on  of  hands  was  altogether  unnecessary." 

This  view  of  the  doctrines  and  services  of  the  church 
reminds  one  of  the  sa^ang  of  Lord  Chatham,  that 
"  the  Church  of  England  has  a  Calvinistic  creed,  an 
Arminian  clergy,  and  a  Popish  Liturgy."  Accord- 
ing to  Bishop  Hare,  the  principal  difference  between 
the  Church  of  Rome  and  the  Church  of  England  is, 
that  "  the  one  is  infallible,  and  the  other  never  in  the 
wrong."  In  respect  to  the  divine  origin  of  Episcopacy 
and  the  apostolic  succession,  the  English  church  now 
approaches  nearer  to  that  of  Rome  than  in  the  days 
of  Cranmei. 

The  present  orthodox  belief  of  the  high  church- 
men we  believe  to  be  that  of  the  Church  of  England, 
with  its  hierarchy,  its  archbishops,  bishops,  deans,  and 
inferior  clergy,  affords  the  nearest  resemblance  to  the 
primitive  church  in  the  time  of  the  apostles. 

The  Church  of  England  has  been  always  strongly 
attached  to  the  sovereign,  its  supreme  head.  The  ex- 
travagance of  this  attachment  and  the  slavish  doctrines 
taught  by  the  clergy  are  thus  stated  by  Macaulay. 

"  The  Church  of  England  was  not  ungrateful  for  the  protec- 
tion which  she  received  from  the  government.  From  the  first 
day  of  her  existence  she  had  been  attached  to  monarchy;  but, 
during  the  quarter  of  a  century  which  followed  the  Restoration, 
her  zeal  for  royal  authority  and  hereditary  right  passed  all 
j  bounds.  She  had  suffered  with  the  house  of  Stuart.  She  had 
[been  restored  with  that  house.  She  was  connected  with  it  by 
common  interests,  friendships,  and  enmities.  It  seemed  impos- 
sible that  a  day  could  ever  come  when  the  ties  which  bound 
her  to  the  children  of  her  august  martyr  would  be  sundered, 
and  when  the  loyalty  in  which  she  gloried  would  cease  to  be 


330  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

a  pleasing  and  profitable  duty.  She  accordingly  magnified  in 
fulsome  praise  that  prerogative  which  was  constantly  employed 
to  defend  and  to  aggrandize  her,  and  reprobated,  much  at  her 
ease,  the  depravity  of  those  whom  oppression,  from  which  she 
was  exempt,  had  goaded  to  rebellion.  Her  favorite  theme  was 
the  doctrine  of  non-resistance.  That  doctrine  she  taught  with- 
out any  qualification,  and  followed  out  to  all  its  extreme  con- 
sequences. Her  disciples  were  never  weary  of  repeating  that 
in  no  conceivable  case,  not  even  if  England  were  cursed  with 
a  king  resembling  Busiris  or  Phalaris,  who,  in  defiance  of  law, 
and  without  the  pretence  of  justice,  should  daily  doom  hun- 
dreds of  innocent  victims  to  torture  and  death,  would  all  the 
estates  of  the  realm  united  be  justified  in  withstanding  his 
tyranny  by  physical  force.  Happily,  the  principles  of  human 
nature  aflFord  abundant  security  that  such  theories  will  never 
be  more  than  theories.  The  day  of  trial  came,  and  the  very 
men  who  had  most  loudly  and  most  sincerely  professed  this 
extravagant  loyalty  were,  in  almost  every  county  of  England, 
arrayed  in  arms  against  the  throne." 

"  The  restored  church  contended  against  the  prevailing  im- 
morality, but  contended  feebly,  and  with  half  a  heart.  It  was 
necessary  to  the  decorum  of  her  character  that  she  should  ad- 
monish her  erring  children.  But  her  admonitions  were  given  in 
a  somewhat  perfunctory  manner.  Her  attention  was  elsewhere 
engaged.  Her  whole  soul  was  in  the  work  of  crushing  the 
Puritans,  and  of  teaching  her  disciples  to  render  unto  Caesar 
the  things  which  were  Caesar's.  She  had  been  pillaged  and  op- 
pressed by  the  party  which  preached  an  austere  morality.  She 
had  been  restored  to  opulence  and  honor  by  libertines.  Little 
as  the  men  of  mirth  and  fashion  were  disposed  to  shape  their 
lives  according  to  her  precepts,  they  were  yet  ready  to  fight 
kneedeep  in  blood  for  her  cathedrals  and  palaces,  for  every 
line  of  her  rubric,  and  every  thread  of  her  vestments.  .  .  . 
It  is  an  unquestionable  and  most  instructive  fact,  that  the 
years  during  which  the  political  power  of  the  Anglican  hier- 
archy was  in  the  zenith,  were  precisely  the  years  during  which 
national  virtue  was  at  the  lowest  point." 

The  immorality,  profligacy,  and  total  want  of 
principle  among  the  higher  classes,  in  the  reign  of 
Charles  II,  and  especially  of  the  most  active  and 
leading  politicians,  seem  almost  incredible.  We  have 
a  striking,  and,  we  suppose,  a  pretty  correct  description 
of  the  general  character  of  the  public  men  in  England 


MACAULAY  331 

at   the    Restoration,    which,    to    a    great    extent,    was 
apphcable  for  more  than  half  a  century   afterwards. 

"  Scarcely  any  rank  or  profession  escaped  the  infection  of  the 
prevailing  immorality:  but  those  persons  who  made  politics  their 
business,  were  perhaps  the  most  corrupt  part  of  the  corrupt  so- 
ciety; for  they  were  exposed  not  only  to  the  same  noxious  influ- 
ences which  aflFected  the  nation  generally,  but  also  to  a  taint  of  a 
peculiar  and  most  malignant  kind.  Their  character  had  been 
formed  amid  frequent  and  violent  revolutions  and  counter-revo- 
lutions. In  the  course  of  a  few  years  they  had  seen  the  ecclesi- 
astical and  civil  polity  of  their  country  repeatedly  changed.  They 
had  seen  an  Episcopal  church  persecuting  Puritans,  a  Puritan 
church  persecuting  Episcopalians,  and  an  Episcopal  church  per- 
secuting Puritans  again.  They  had  seen  hereditary  monarchy 
abolished  and  restored.  They  had  seen  the  Long  Parliament 
thrice  supreme  in  the  state  and  thrice  dissolved  amid  the  curses 
and  laughter  of  millions.  They  had  seen  a  new  dynasty  rapidly 
rising  to  the  height  of  power  and  glory,  and  then,  on  a  sudden, 
hurled  down  from  the  chair  of  state  without  a  struggle.  They 
had  seen  a  new  representative  system  devised,  tried,  and  aban- 
doned. They  had  seen  a  new  House  of  Lords  created  and 
scattered.  They  had  seen  great  masses  of  property  violently 
transferred  from  Cavaliers  to  Roundheads,  and  from  Round- 
heads back  to  Cavaliers.  During  these  events,  no  man  could  be 
a  stirring  and  thriving  politician  who  was  not  prepared  to 
change  with  every  change  of  fortune.  It  was  only  in  retire- 
ment that  any  person  could  long  keep  the  character  either  of  a 
steady  Royalist  or  of  a  steady  Republican.  One  who,  in  such 
an  age,  is  determined  to  attain  civil  greatness,  must  renounce 
all  thoughts  of  consistency.  Instead  of  affecting  immutability 
in  the  midst  of  endless  mutation,  he  must  always  be  on  the 
watch  for  the  indications  of  a  coming  reaction.  He  must  seize 
the  exr.ct  moment  for  deserting  a  falling  cause.  Having  gone 
all  lengths  with  a  faction  while  it  was  uppermost,  he  must  ex- 
tricate himself  from  it  when  its  diflBculties  begin;  must  assail  it, 
must  persecute  it,  must  enter  on  a  new  career  of  power  and 
prosperity  in  company  with  new  associates.  His  situation  nat- 
urally develops  in  him  to  the  highest  degree  a  peculiar  class 
of  abilities  and  a  peciiliar  class  of  vices.  He  becomes  quick 
of  observation  and  fertile  of  resource.  He  catches  without 
effort  the  tone  of  any  sect  or  party  with  which  he  chances 
to  mingle.  He  discerns  the  signs  of  the  times  with  a  sagacity 
which  to  the  multitude  appears  miraculous;  with  a  sagacity 
resembling  that  with  which  a  veteran  police  officer  pursues  the 


THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

faintest  indications  of  crime,  or  with  which  a  Mohawk  war- 
rior follows  a  track  through  the  woods.  But  we  shall  seldom 
find,  in  a  statesman  so  trained,  integrity,  constancy,  or  any  of 
the  virtues  of  the  noble  family  of  Truth.  He  has  no  faith  in 
any  doctrine,  no  zeal  for  any  cause.  He  has  seen  so  many 
old  institutions  swept  away  that  he  has  no  reverence  for  pre- 
scription. He  has  seen  so  many  new  institutions  from  which 
much  had  been  expected  produce  mere  disappointment,  that 
he  has  no  hope  of  improvement.  He  sneers  alike  at  those 
who  are  anxious  to  preserve  and  those  who  are  eager  to  reform. 
There  is  nothing  in  the  state  which  he  could  not,  without  a 
scruple  or  a  blush,  join  in  defending  or  in  destroying.  Fidelity 
to  opinions  and  to  friends  seems  to  him  mere  dulness  and 
wrong-headedness.  Politics  he  regards,  not  as  a  science  of 
which  the  object  is  the  happiness  of  mankind,  but  as  an  ex- 
citing game  of  mixed  chance  and  skill,  at  which  a  dextrous  and 
lucky  player  may  win  an  estate,  a  coronet,  perhaps  a  crown, 
and  at  which  one  rash  move  may  lead  to  the  loss  of  fortune 
and  of  life.  Ambition,  which  in  good  times  and  in  good  minds 
is  half  a  virtue,  now,  disjoined  from  every  elevated  and 
philanthropic  sentiment,  becomes  a  selfish  cupidity  scarcely  less 
ignoble  than  avarice.  Among  those  politicians  who,  from  the 
Restoration  to  the  accession  of  the  House  of  Hanover  were 
at  the  head  of  the  great  parties  in  the  state,  very  few  can  be 
named  whose  reputation  is  not  stained  by  what  in  our  age  would 
be  called  gross  perfidy  and  corruption.  It  is  scarcely  an  ex- 
aggeration to  say  that  the  most  unprincipled  public  men  who 
have  taken  part  in  affairs  within  our  memory,  would,  if  tried 
by  the  standard  which  was  in  fashion  during  the  latter  part 
of  the  seventeenth  century,  deserve  to  be  regarded  as  scrupulous 
and  disinterested." 

Robert  Spencer,  Earl  of  Sunderland  and  ancestor 
of  the  present  Duke  of  Marlborough  and  of  Earl 
Spencer,  was  one  of  the  most  thorough-going  politi- 
cians of  this  class.  He  twice  changed  his  religion  to 
please  the  court,  was  concerned  in  many  of  the  worst 
measures  of  Charles  and  James,  and  was  a  successful 
courtier  and  favorite  minister  of  William. 

"  Sunderland  was  Secretary  of  State.  In  this  man  the  po- 
litical immorality  of  his  age  was  personified  in  the  most  lively 
manner.  Nature  had  given  him  a  keen  understanding,  a  rest- 
less and  mischievous  temper,  a  cold  heart,  and  an  abject  spirit. 


MACAULAY  333 

His  mind  had  undergone  a  training  by  which  all  his  vices  had 
been  nursed  up  to  the  rankest  maturity.  At  his  entrance  into 
public  life,  he  had  passed  several  years  in  diplomatic  posts 
abroad,  and  had  been,  during  some  time,  minister  in  France. 
Every  calling  has  its  peculiar  temptations.  There  is  no  in- 
justice in  saying  that  diplomatists,  as  a  class,  have  always  been 
more  distinguished  by  their  address,  by  the  art  with  which  they 
win  the  confidence  of  those  with  whom  they  have  to  deal,  and 
by  the  ease  with  wliich  they  catch  the  tone  of  every  society 
into  which  they  are  admitted,  than  by  generous  enthusiasm 
or  austere  rectitude;  and  the  relations  between  Charles  and 
Louis  were  such  that  no  English  nobleman  could  long  reside  in 
France  as  envoy,  and  retain  any  patriotic  or  honorable  senti- 
ment. Sunderland  came  forth  from  the  bad  school  in  which  he 
had  been  brought  up,  cunning,  supple,  shameless,  free  from  all 
prejudices,  and  destitute  of  all  principles.  He  was,  by  heredi- 
tary connection,  a  Cavalier;  but  with  the  Cavaliers  he  had 
nothing  in  common.  They  were  zealous  for  monarchy,  and 
condemned  in  theory  all  resistance;  yet  they  had  sturdy  Eng- 
lish hearts,  which  would  never  have  endured  real  despotism. 
He,  on  the  contrary,  had  a  languid,  speculative  liking  for  Re- 
publican institutions,  which  was  compatible  with  perfect  readi- 
ness to  be  in  practice  the  most  servile  instrument  of  arbitrary 
powers.  Like  many  other  accomplished  flatterers  and  negoti- 
ators, he  was  far  more  skilful  in  the  art  of  reading  the  char- 
acters and  practising  on  the  weaknesses  of  individuals  than  in 
the  art  of  discerning  the  feelings  of  great  masses  and  of  fore- 
seeing the  approach  of  great  revolutions.  He  was  adroit  in  in- 
trigue; and  it  was  difficult  even  for  shrewd  and  experienced 
men,  who  had  been  forewarned  of  his  perfidy,  to  withstand 
the  fascination  of  his  manner,  and  to  refuse  credit  to  his 
professions  of  attachment;  but  he  was  so  intent  on  observing 
and  courting  particular  persons  that  he  forgot  to  study  the 
temper  of  the  nation.  He  therefore  miscalculated  grossly  with 
respect  to  all  the  most  momentous  events  of  his  time.  Every 
important  movement  and  rebound  of  the  public  mind  took  him 
by  surprise;  and  the  world,  unable  to  understand  how  so 
clever  a  man  could  be  blind  to  what  was  clearly  discerned  by 
the  pohticians  of  the  coffee-houses,  sometimes  attributed  to 
deep  design  what  were,  in  truth,  mere  blunders." 

The  causes  assigned  by  Macaulay  had  no  doubt 
much  influence  in  producing  the  dechne  of  public  and 
private  virtue,  but  yet  seem  hardly  sufficient  to  ac- 
count for  the  great  immorality  said  to  be  so  generally 


334  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

prevalent.  Hume  says  that  "  never  was  a  people  less 
corrupted  by  vice  and  more  actuated  by  principle 
than  the  English  at  the  beginning  of  the  Civil  War. 
At  the  close  of  the  reign  of  Charles  H  it  would  seem 
that  the  proposition  might  be  almost  reversed." 
There  is  probably  some  exaggeration  in  both  cases ; 
but  there  can  be  no  doubt  of  a  great  decline  in  public 
and  private  morals,  and  a  great  prevalence  of  immor- 
ality and  corruption  at  the  latter  period. 

We  suppose  it  to  be  true  that  there  has  been  a 
very  great  change  for  the  better  in  the  moral  and 
political  character  of  the  public  men  in  England  since 
the  reign  of  Charles  II.  The  improved  morals  in 
private  life,  on  which  Macaulay  dwells  with  some  com- 
placency, the  diffusion  of  intelligence,  and  the  much 
greater  force  of  public  opinion,  have  had  a  very  bene- 
ficial influence  on  the  conduct  of  the  English  pohti- 
cians  and  statesmen.  This  improvement  may  be  con- 
sidered as  one  of  the  most  favorable  symptons  of  the 
times  in  England. 

The  kings  of  the  house  of  Stuart  seem  to  have 
been  an  incorrigible  race,  incapable  of  discerning  the 
signs  of  the  times  or  of  improving  by  prosperity  or  ad- 
versity. Called  by  the  English  law  of  succession  to  the 
noblest  inheritance  in  the  world,  they  supposed  their 
right  to  the  throne  was  derived  from  Heaven,  not 
from  the  consent  of  the  people ;  that  they  were  in- 
vested by  God  with  absolute  power,  for  the  exercise 
of  which  they  were  accountable  to  him  alone.  In  a 
word  that  they  had 

"The  right  divine  of  kings  to  govern  wrong;'* 

a  right  which  they  strenuously  attempted  to  put  in 
practice  so  long  as  they  had  the  power. 

James   I  had  some  learning,  with  much  pedantry, 


MACAULAY  335 

and  endeavored  to  prove  from  reason  and  Scripture 
the  divine  and  absolute  power  of  the  throne.  The 
Duke  of  Sully  pronounced  him  to  be  the  wisest  fool 
in  Europe. 

Charles  I  had  more  capacity,  firmness,  and  perse- 
verance than  his  father,  and  was  more  bent  upon  the 
establishment  of  arbitrary  power.  His  design  in- 
cluded the  American  colonies  as  well  as  his  dominions 
in  Europe.  Only  six  years  after  he  had  granted  the 
charter  of  Masachusetts  he  determined  to  revoke  it  and 
established  a  commission  at  the  head  of  which  was 
Archbishop  Laud,  with  absolute  authority  over  the 
colonies  in  all  cases,  civil  and  religious.  This  board 
or  commission  were  authorized  to  make  laws  and  or- 
dinances in  all  cases,  especially  for  the  support  of 
the  Episcopal  clergy,  by  tithes,  oblations,  and  other 
profits  accruing,  to  make  and  unmake  governors,  to 
constitute  such  civil  and  ecclesiastical  tribunals  and 
courts  of  justice,  with  such  powers  as  they  should 
judge  proper,  and  to  revoke  any  charters  or  letters 
patent  prejudicial  to  the  crown. 

Had  Charles  been  able  to  carry  this  plan  into  ex- 
ecution we  should  have  had  our  High  Commision  and 
Star  Chamber  in  America,  and  not  a  vestige  of  civil 
or  religious  liberty  would  have  been  suffered  to  re- 
main. The  controversy  between  the  king  and  parlia- 
ment, which  broke  out  soon  after,  gave  the  king  and 
archbishop  sufficient  occupation  at  home,  and  saved 
the  liberties  of  New  England.  If  England,  as  most 
of  her  writers  say,  owes  her  freedom  to  the  Puritans 
and  Long  Parliament,  it  is  not  less  true  as  to  her 
American  colonies. 

The  character  of  Charles  II  is  drawn  with  much 
force  and  vivacity,  and  we  suppose  in  its  true  colors. 


336  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

This  most  worthless  and  profligate  prince  was  for  a 
time  more  popular  than  any  of  his  predecessors. 
There  is  one  trait  in  his  character,  however,  not  men- 
tioned by  Macaulay,  we  mean  his  special  regard  for 
daring  and  atrocious  villains. 

The  case  of  Blood,  who  attempted  to  assassinate 
the  Duke  of  Ormond,  the  first  nobleman  in  the  king- 
dom, and  most  zealous  friend  and  supporter  of  the 
Stuart  family,  is  a  signal  instance.  In  his  attempt 
Blood  almost  succeeded.  He  had  committed  other 
capital  crimes,  besides  the  robbery  of  the  crown  and 
regalia  from  the  Tower.  Yet  this  audacious  criminal 
was  not  only  pardoned  by  Charles,  but  became  a  fav- 
orite companion  of  the  king  and  an  influential  courtier, 
whose  interest  was  solicited  by  applicants  for  court 
favors,  and  was  rewarded  by  Charles  with  the  grant 
of  a  considerable  estate  in  Ireland. 

Morgan,  the  most  noted  of  all  pirates  or  buccaneers 
in  the  West  Indies,  was  distinguished  by  Charles  with 
the  honor  of  knighthood. 

The  infamous  and  savage  Colonel  Kirke  aff^ords  an- 
other instance.  Charles  near  the  close  of  his  reign 
appointed  Kirke,  who  had  been  notorious  for  his 
tyranny  and  cruelties  at  Tangier,  to  be  governor  of 
New  England,  with  absolute  authority.  This  was 
soon  after  Massachusetts  had  been  illegally  deprived 
of  her  charter,  so  that  there  would  have  been  no 
security  against  the  barbarity  of  Kirke.  But  James, 
when  he  came  to  the  crown,  did  not  wish  to  part  with 
one  whose  disposition  was  so  congenial  with  his  own, 
and  who  was  so  well  fitted  for  his  arbitrary  and  cruel 
designs.  Instead  of  Kirke,  Sir  Edmund  Andros  was 
sent  as  governor  to  New  England,  a  tyrant  indeed, 
but  not  quite  so  atrocious  as  Kirke. 


MACAULAY  337 

As  to  James  II,  his  conduct  in  Scotland  and  in 
England  showed  a  love  of  arbitrary  power  and  a  de- 
light in  persecution  and  cruelty.  A  bigoted  papist 
himself  he  instituted  a  savage  persecution  against 
Scottish  Presbyterians  and  Puritans  for  not  conform- 
ing to  the  Church  of  England.  In  this  persecution 
thousands  perished  by  the  sword,  famine,  or  imprison- 
ment, and  many  thousand  families  were  utterly  ruined. 
And  what  was  the  object  of  this  persecution.''  Not 
to  convert  them  to  what  he  believed  to  be  the  true  re- 
ligion, but  to  make  them  change  from  one  false  re- 
ligion to  another  that  he  believed  to  be  equally  false. 
The  same  remark  applies  in  some  degree  to  his  brother 
Charles  in  the  persecutions  of  the  dissenters  in  Eng- 
land, as  he  was  secretly  a  Roman  CathoHc.  Per- 
haps, however,  it  may  be  doing  them  some  injustice 
to  suppose  that  they  were  actuated  by  any  worse  mo- 
tives than  other  persecutors,  though  a  little  more  in- 
consistent. As  we  believe  all  persecution  arises  from 
bad  motives  we  do  not  feel  certain  that  Charles  and 
James  were  any  worse  in  this  respect  than  their  con- 
temporaries of  the  established  church,  who  instigated 
and  were  actively  engaged  in  carrying  on  these  per- 
secutions. 

But  for  their  conduct  in  church  and  state  both 
Charles  and  James  may  have  some  excuse  in  the  doc- 
trines of  divine  right,  passive  obedience,  and  non-re- 
sistance, so  diligently  inculcated  by  the  church  as  we 
have  just  seen,  and  also  by  the  Parliament  and  the 
University  of  Oxford.  To  a  sovereign  inclined  to 
tyranny  and  persecution  there  can  be  no  stronger 
temptation  than  the  assurance  that  he  can  indulge  his 
bad  passions  with  impunity.  This  assurance  the 
church,  the  Parliament,  and  the  University  of  Oxford 

zealousl}^  endeavored  to  furnish. 
11—22 


838  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

The  first  Parliament  chosen  after  the  Restoration 
passed  an  act  that  the  power  of  the  sword  was  solely 
in  the  king,  and  declared  that  in  no  extremity  what- 
ever could  the  Parliament  be  justified  in  resisting  him 
by  force. 

By  another  act  all  magistrates  and  officers  of  cor- 
porations were  required  to  declare  on  oath  their  be- 
lief that  it  was  not  lawful  upon  any  pretence  whatever 
to  take  arms  against  the  king,  and  their  abhorrence 
of  the  traitorous  position  of  taking  arms  by  the  king's 
authority  against  his  person,  or  against  those  com- 
missioned by  him.  A  motion  to  insert  the  word  law- 
fully before  "commissioned"  was  rejected. 

The  University  of  Oxford  in  full  convocation  passed 
a  decree  "  against  certain  pernicious  books  and  dam- 
nable doctrines  destructive  to  the  sacred  persons  of 
princes,  their  state  and  government,  and  all  human 
society." 

The  doctrines  condemned  consist  of  twenty-seven 
propositions  taken  from  the  works  of  Milton,  Bu- 
chanan, Owen,  Baxter  and  several  others.  One  of 
these  damnable  propositions  is,  "  that  when  kings  sub- 
vert the  constitution  of  their  country,  and  become  ab- 
solute tyrants,  they  forfeit  their  right  to  the  govern- 
ment, and  may  be  resisted."  This  and  other  similar 
propositions,  they  declare  to  be  "  impious,  seditious, 
scandalous,  damnable,  heretical,  blasphemous,  and  in- 
famous to  the  Christian  religion."  They  forbid  the 
students  to  read  the  writings  of  those  authors,  and  or- 
der their  books  to  be  burnt. 

One  would  suppose  that  the  Parliament,  the  church, 
and  University  of  Oxford  were  rife  for  slavery. 
Charles  and  James  had  some  excuse  for  taking  them 
at  their  word. 


MACAULAY  339 

The  history  of  this  period  has  a  peculiar  interest 
for  Americans,  as  being  essentially  connected  with 
their  own.  The  revolution  of  1688  was  not  less  a  de- 
liverance from  arbitrary  power  for  New  England  than 
for  Old.  The  tyranny  of  Sir  Edmund  Andros  had 
become  so  insupportable  that  he  was  deposed  and  im- 
prisoned before  the  success  of  the  revolution  was 
known  here. 

But  though  the  Revolution  was  a  great  blessing  to 
the  colonies,  yet  some  of  them  had  much  reason  to 
complain  of  the  government  under  the  new  settle- 
ment. Massachusetts  could  not  obtain  a  restoration 
of  her  charter,  though  deprived  of  it  by  a  judgment 
acknowledged  to  be  illegal  and  unjust.  Sir  Edmund 
Andros,  so  noted  as  a  tyrant  in  Massachusetts,  was 
rewarded  by  being  sent  out  as  governor  of  Virginia. 
The  Habeas  Corpus  Act,  so  essential  to  freedom,  was 
passed  by  the  General  Court  of  Masachusetts,  but 
was  disallowed  and  repealed  by  the  committee  of  plan- 
tations, at  the  head  of  which  was  the  famous  Lord 
Somers.  It  seems  to  have  been  the  opinion  of  this 
great  constitutional  lawyer  that  the  English  act  of 
Habeas  Corpus  did  not  extend  to  the  colonies,  and 
that  they  could  not  have  this  security  of  freedom 
except  from  the  bounty  of  the  crown. 

The  character  of  William  of  Orange,  the  great 
hero  of  the  Revolution,  the  idol  of  the  Whigs,  and  in 
former  times  the  detestation  of  the  Tories,  is  drawn 
at  great  length  and  in  the  most  favorable  colors. 
He  seems,  indeed,  with  some  faults  and  disagreeable 
qualities,  to  have  been  on  the  whole  the  best  and  most 
able  of  the  great  public  men  of  the  age.  He  was  tol- 
erant and  liberal  in  his  views  of  religion  and  church 
establishments,   a    great   merit   in   that   age.     A   wise 


340  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

and  far-siglited  statesman,  with  an  invincible  courage 
and  perseverance  in  a  contest  which  was  the  cause  not 
only  of  England  and  Holland,  but  of  the  greater  part 
of  Europe  against  the  ambition  of  Louis  XIV.  Ma- 
caulay  in  this  case,  as  well  as  some  others,  has  availed 
himself  of  important  sources  of  information  which 
do  not  seem  to  have  been  known  to  any  other  historian, 
and  attributes  to  him  more  amiable  qualities  than 
William  was   supposed   to  possess. 

A  very  different  picture  is  given  of  him  by  the 
Tories,  which  we  quote  merely  as  showing  the  ex- 
travagance of  party  zeal.  Dr.  Johnson,  according  to 
Boswell,  pronounced  William  to  be  the  most  worthless 
of  all  scoundrels.  But  then  it  is  to  be  recollected  that 
the  Doctor  had  an  extraordinary  veneration  for 
Charles  11.  Smollet's  character  of  William  contains 
more  point  and  vivacity  than  is  often  found  in  his 
history,  and  probably  shows  the  sentiments  of  the  ultra 
Tories  of  that  age.  The  following  is  Smollet's  view 
of  the  government  of  William : 

"  Certain  it  is  he  involved  these  kingdoms  in  foreign  con- 
nections which,  in  all  probability,  will  be  productive  of  their 
ruin.  In  order  to  establish  this  favorite  point  he  scrupled  not 
to  employ  all  the  engines  of  corruption  by  which  the  morals 
of  the  nation  were  totally  debauched.  He  procured  a  par- 
liamentary sanction  for  a  standing  army,  which  now  seems  to 
be  interwoven  in  the  constitution.  He  introduced  the  per- 
nicious practice  of  borrowing  upon  remote  funds,  an  expedient 
that  necessarily  hatched  a  brood  of  usurers,  brokers,  con- 
tractors, and  stock-jobbers  to  prey  upon  the  vitals  of  their 
country.  He  entailed  upon  the  nation  a  growing  debt  and  a 
system  of  politics  big  with  misery,  despair,  and  destruction. 
To  sum  up  his  character  in  a  few  words  —  William  was  a 
fatalist  in  religion,  indefatigable  in  war,  enterprising  in  poli- 
tics, dead  to  all  the  warm  and  generous  emotions  of  the  human 
heart,  a  cold  relation,  an  indifferent  husband,  a  disagreeable 
man,  an  ungracious  prince,  and  an  imperious  sovereign." 


MACAULAY  341 

The  account  of  William  Penn's  intimacy  with 
James,  and  his  concern  in  some  acts  of  oppression  by 
the  king,  his  courtiers,  and  court-ladies,  will  excite 
much  surprise,  and  probably  resentment  in  some  quar- 
ters. If  the  charges  are  true,  it  is  proper  they  should 
be  made  known.  If  they  are  unfounded,  the  Quakers 
and  Pennsylvanians  are  abundantly  able  to  vindicate 
his  character.  His  reputation  would  bear  a  consider- 
able reduction,  and  yet  leave  him  one  of  the  best 
among  the  distinguished  politicians  of  his  age. 

Macaulay  says  it  had  been  the  practice  of  every 
English  government  to  contract  debts.  What  the 
Revolution  introduced  was  the  practice  of  honestly 
paying  them. 

This  process  of  honestly  paying  the  national  debts 
has  been  extremely  slow  in  its  operation.  At  the 
Revolution  the  national  debt  was  little  more  than  one 
million  sterling,  it  is  now  about  eight  hundred  millions. 
It  is  true  that  the  interest  has  been  punctually  paid, 
the  public  credit  is  good,  and  any  creditor  who  chooses 
may  receive  payment  by  transferring  his  claim  to  an- 
other. The  debt,  however,  still  remains  a  burden  on 
the  property  and  industry  of  the  nation.  Hume,  in 
his  essay  on  Public  Credit  says,  that  it  would  scarcely 
be  more  imprudent  to  give  a  prodigal  son  a  credit  in 
every  banker's  shop  in  London,  than  to  empower  a 
statesman  to  draw  bills  in  this  manner  upon  posterity. 

"  The  establishment  of  a  public  credit  fruitful  of 
marvels,  which  would  seem  incredible  to  the  statesmen 
of  any  former  age  "  is  enumerated  among  the  bless- 
ings of  the  new  settlement.  This  is  rather  a  delicate 
way  of  treating  the  national  debt.  To  the  states- 
men of  any  former  age  the  ability  to  contract  such 
a  debt,  and  the  folly  of  doing  it,  might  have  seemed 


M2  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

equally  incredible.  If  nations  contract  debts  they 
should  honestly  pay  them.  But  we  can  hardly  deem 
it  a  cause  of  congratulation  that  the  government  have 
been  able  to  incur  this  enormous  debt,  with  an  annual 
interest  of  thirty  millions,  "  so  burdensome,  still  pay- 
ing, still  to  owe,"  and  to  mortgage  it  upon  the  lands, 
property,  and  industry  of  the  nation  for  ever ;  if  not 
for  ever,  at  least  for  a  duration  to  which  the  eye  of 
man  can  see  no  limit. 

The  national  debt  has  been  mentioned  as  one  of  the 
great  evils  produced  by  the  Revolution,  as  a  part  of 
the  price  the  nation  had  to  pay  for  the  new  settlement 
made  by  discarding  the  Stuarts  and  calling  in  William, 
and  to  defray  the  expense  of  the  wars  necessary  to 
support  him  on  the  throne. 

Unfortunately,  the  ministry  and  moneyed  class 
found  their  own  private  interests  promoted  by  thus 
anticipating  the  incomes  of  the  future  generations. 
The  ministry,  to  avoid  the  odium  of  imposing  the 
taxes  really  necessary,  or  because  they  wanted  a  fund 
for  influence  and  corruption,  were  willing  to  borrow 
money  on  terms  profitable  to  the  lenders,  and  leave  it 
to  their  successors  to  provide  for  the  payment.  Wash- 
ington, in  his  farewell  address,  with  his  characteristic 
wisdom  and  justice,  cautions  the  people  of  the  United 
States  against  "  ungenerously  throwing  upon  posterity 
the  burden  which  we  ourselves  ought  to  bear." 

As  our  author,  in  stating  the  purpose  and  objects 
of  his  work,  must  be  supposed  to  express  his  meaning 
with  some  accuracy,  we  will,  at  the  risk  of  being 
thought  hypercritical,  make  a  remark  on  the  expres- 
sion applied  to  the  British  navy.  "  A  maritime  power, 
before  which  every  other  maritime  power,  ancient  or 
modern,   sinks   into   insignificance."     This   is   another 


MACAULAY  343 

of  the  glories  of  England,  the  boast  of  every  Eng- 
lishman. Comparisons  are  apt  to  be  odious,  and  some 
discretion  is  required  to  manage  them  without  giving 
offense.  It  would  be  idle  to  deny  the  great  power  of 
the  British  navy,  and  that  its  strength  is  superior  to 
every  other ;  but  we  doubt  the  propriety  or  prudence 
of  this  boast ;  nations,  like  individuals,  do  not  like  to 
be  reminded  of  their  insigni^cance,  and  neither  France, 
Russia,  nor  America  will  admit  the  correctness  of  the 
estimate  here  made  by  Macaulay  of  their  naval 
power. 

A  short  time  prior  to  the  last  war  with  England, 
it  was  said  in  Parliament,  that  a  single  English  sloop 
of  war  or  frigate  (we  forget  which),  was  able  to 
cope  with  the  whole  American  navy.  This  was  soon 
found  to  be  an  error.  In  case  of  any  future  war 
between  the  two  countries  (which  may  heaven  avert), 
the  American  navy  would  be  found  not  entirely  in- 
significant. De  Tocqueville,  the  distinguished  author 
and  statesman,  who  of  all  foreign  writers  has  given  on 
the  whole  the  best  account  of  our  country,  its  institu- 
tions and  prospects,  devotes  a  chapter  to  what  he  calls 
the  commercial  greatness  of  America,  and  closes  with 
this  paragraph: 

"  I  think  that  the  principal  features  in  the  destiny  of  a  na- 
tion, as  of  an  individual,  are  generally  indicated  by  their  early 
youth.  When  I  see  with  what  spirit  the  Americans  carry  on 
■commerce,  the  facilities  they  enjoy,  and  the  success  they  have 
met  with,  I  cannot  avoid  believing  that  they  will  one  day  be- 
<:ome  the  first  maritime  power  on  the  globe.  They  are  destined 
to  acquire  the  dominion  of  the  seas,  as  the  Romans  were  to 
conquer  the  world." 

Now,  we  confess  that  we  do  not  entirely  like  this, 
and  do  not  wish  that  our  country,  or  any  other, 
should  be  any  stronger  at  sea  than  is  necessary  for  its 


344  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

own  security  and  the  defence  of  its  just  rights  at 
home  and  abroad. 

Macaulay  seems  much  of  an  optimist  in  pohtics. 
Whatever  happens  is  for  the  best,  if  not  for  the  pres- 
ent, at  least  in  the  long  run.  The  reign  of  the  sov- 
ereigns commonly  deemed  the  worst  proved  to  be  the 
greatest  blessings.  The  talents  and  virtues  of  the 
first  Norman  kings  had  nearly  proved  fatal  to  Eng- 
land, but  the  follies  and  vices  of  John  were  her  sal- 
vation. Again,  if  the  administration  of  James  I  had 
been  able  and  splendid,  it  would  probably  have  been 
fatal  to  the  country. 

Under  the  reign  of  his  successor,  Charles  I,  there 
was  another  narrow  escape.  The  laws  and  liberties  of 
England,  on  the  brink  of  destruction,  were  happily 
saved  by  the  wanton  and  criminal  attempt  of  Charles 
to  force  upon  the  Scots  the  English  liturgy  and  es- 
tablished church.  Another  and  final  deliverance  from 
tyranny  by  the  folly  and  madness  of  James  II.  If 
the  king  had  not  attacked  the  church,  the  institution 
most  venerated  by  Englishmen,  he  would  probably 
have  been  quietly  permitted  to  prosecute  his  plan  of 
establishing  arbitrary  power  in   the  state. 

This  seeming  propensity  for  paradox  reminds  one 
of  Gibbon's  remark  upon  the  clergy,  that  to  a  philo- 
sophic mind  their  vices  are  far  less  dangerous  than 
their  virtues.  A  proposition  which,  by  the  way,  we 
think  is  contradicted  by  all  ecclesiastical  history. 

There  is,  however,  some  plausibility  in  these  views  of 
Macaulay,  and  in  the  instances  mentioned  and  per- 
haps many  others  they  may  be  substantially  just. 
How  happy  for  a  nation  that,  when  brought  to  the 
brink  of  ruin,  it  has  a  perennial  inexhaustible  fountain 
cf  salvation  in  the  follies,  vices,  and  crimes  of  its 
rulers ! 


IVIACAULAY  845 

This  disposition  to  look  on  the  favorable  side  of 
things  appears  often  throughout  the  work.  Whether 
the  church  or  the  laity  have  the  ascendency,  it  is  all 
for  the  good  of  the  nation,  and  she  owes  a  great  debt 
of  gratitude  both  to  Popery  and  Protestantism. 

"  It  is  diflBcult  to  say  whether  England  owes  more  to  the 
Roman  Catholic  religion  or  to  the  Reformation.  For  the  amal- 
gamation of  races  and  for  the  abolition  of  villanage  she  is 
chiefly  indebted  to  the  influence  which  the  priesthood  in  the 
middle  ages  exercised  over  the  laity.  For  political  and  in- 
tellectual freedom,  and  for  all  the  blessings  which  political 
and  intellectual  freedom  have  brought  in  their  train,  she  is 
chiefly  indebted  to  the  great  rebellion  of  the  laity  against  the 
priesthood." 

The  Long  Parliament  merits  the  lasting  gratitude 
of  Englishmen  for  their  resistance  to  Charles  I,  and 
thus  saving  the  liberties  of  the  country.  The  par- 
liament that  restored  Charles  II  without  any  condi- 
tions to  limit  his  power  seized  the  golden  opportunity 
which,  if  lost,  would  have  long  been  regretted  by  the 
friends  of  liberty,  of  placing  on  the  throne  this  profli- 
gate monarch.  After  the  two  reigns  of  Charles  and 
James,  comprising  nearly  thirty  years  of  oppression, 
persecution,  and  almost  every  kind  of  misgovernment 
at  home,  besides  a  vassalage  to  France  the  most  dis- 
graceful in  the  annals  of  England,  another  parlia- 
ment rescued  the  nation  from  Popery  and  tyranny  by 
the  total  and  final  expulsion  of  the  Stuarts. 

There  seems  much  reason  to  doubt  the  correctness 
of  this  view  of  the  Restoration.  Macaulay  says  that 
"  It  has  been  too  much  the  practice  of  writers  zealous 
for  freedom,  to  represent  the  Restoration  as  a  dis- 
astrous event,  and  to  condemn  the  folly  or  baseness 
of  that  Convention  which  recalled  the  royal  family 
without  exacting  new  securities  against  mal-adminis- 
tration." 


346  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Mr.  Fox,  in  his  fragment  of  the  History  of  the 
Reign  of  James  II,  severely  condemns  the  conduct  of 
those  who  at  the  Restoration  made  no  scruple  to  lay 
the  nation  prostrate  at  the  feet  of  a  monarch,  without 
a  single  provision  in  favor  of  the  cause  of  liberty. 
Charles  would  have  been  glad  to  accept  the  crown  on 
any  terms.  It  must  have  been  a  strange  crisis,  indeed, 
that  rendered  it  necessary  for  the  salvation  of  the 
people  to  place  such  a  man  as  Charles  upon  the  throne 
without  a  moment's  delay,  and  without  imposing  any 
limitation  on  the  royal  prerogative. 

Our  author  gives  a  description  at  considerable  length 
of  the  state  of  England  at  the  accession  of  James  II, 
and  compares  it  with  the  condition  of  England  at 
present.  The  comparison,  of  course,  is  very  much 
in  favor  of  its  present  state,  and  the  contrast  is  prob- 
ably greater  in  almost  every  respect  than  most  read- 
ers could  have  supposed.  The  great  physical,  moral, 
and  intellectual  improvement  in  every  department,  if 
truly  represented,  as  we  must  presume  was  intended, 
is  indeed  a  just  cause  of  congratulation  and  thank- 
fulness. 

The  political,  social,  and  industrial  system  of  Eng- 
land since  the  Revolution  is  probably  better  fitted  than 
any  system  that  has  been  tried,  in  the  old  world  at 
least,  for  very  many  of  the  objects  thought  most  de- 
sirable in  national  prosperity.  It  has  been  especially 
favorable  to  the  acquisition  of  great  wealth  and  rapid 
progress  in  the  great  departments  of  industry,  in  agri- 
culture, commerce,  manufactures,  and  the  mechanic 
arts,  and  in  working  the  various  mines,  a  very  im- 
portant branch  in  England. 

The  wealth  of  the  great  landholders,  merchants, 
manufacturers,  and  the  moneyed  interest,  is  adequate 


MACAULAY  347 

to  any  interest  or  enterprise  on  the  largest  scale. 
With  abundant  capital,  with  labor  at  a  low  rate  to 
any  extent  wanted,  and  often  in  excess,  skillfully  or- 
ganized and  directed,  the  advance  in  every  depart- 
ment of  business  and  the  increase  of  wealth  are,  we 
believe,  altogether  without  example. 

The  population  of  England  and  Wales  at  that 
time  is  supposed  to  have  been  somewhat  more  than 
five  millions,  and  less  than  one-third  of  its  present 
amount.  The  inhabitants  of  London,  who  are  now 
at  least  nineteen  hundred  thousand,  were  then  prob- 
ably a  little  more  than  half  a  million. 

In  the  reign  of  Charles  II,  after  London  no  town 
in  the  kingdom  contained  thirty  thousand  inhabitants, 
and  only  four  provincial  towns  contained  so  many  as 
ten  thousand.  This  statement  we  suppose  may  be  true, 
but  it  is  very  surprising,  especially  when  we  consider 
the  number  of  cities  in  the  United  States  containing 
thirty  thousand  and  upwards,  and  the  great  number 
containing  more  than  ten  thousand.  Massachusetts 
alone  has  twice  the  number  of  towns  containing  ten 
thousand  inhabitants. 

The  army  and  navy  of  Charles  II  were  small  com- 
pared with  military  and  naval  establishments  in  Eng- 
land at  present.  The  whole  annual  expense  of  the 
army,  navy,  ordnance,  effective  and  non-effective  ser- 
vice, was  then  about  seven  hundred  and  fifty  thousand 
pounds.  Now  it  is  more  than  twenty  times  that 
amount. 

It  must  be  acknowledged  that  the  government  of  the 
Stuarts  was  a  very  cheap  one  in  a  pecuniary  view, 
compared  with  any  the  English  have  had  since.  Of 
all  the  advances  made  in  the  rapid  march  of  improve- 
ment in   England  since   the  Revolution,   the   greatest 


348  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

advance  has  been  in  taxation  and  public  expenditure! 

If  the  well-being  of  a  nation  depended  on  the 
amount  of  its  wealth,  however  unequally  distributed, 
then  England  would  be  the  happiest  country  in  the 
world.  But  we  believe  the  happiness  of  a  people  de- 
pends less  on  the  amount  than  on  the  general  diffusion 
of  property,  so  as  to  afford  a  comfortable  livelihood 
and  the  means  of  education  and  improvement  to  the 
laboring  classes.  If  this  be  so,  there  is  much  cause 
for  regret  as  well  as  congratulation  in  the  present 
condition  of  Great  Britain. 

There  are  some  principles  in  the  English  political 
and  social  system  that  are  passed  over  in  the  work  be- 
fore us  without  much  notice,  which  seem  to  us  to  merit 
consideration  both  as  to  their  present  effects  and  fu- 
ture tendency. 

The  historian  of  the  Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman 
Empire,  in  his  admirable  chapter  on  the  Roman  or 
Civil  Law,  sa^'s  that  "  the  insolent  prerogative  of 
primogeniture  was  unknown  to  the  Romans.  The  two 
sexes  were  placed  on  a  just  level,  and  all  the  sons  and 
daughters  were  entitled  to  an  equal  portion  of  the 
patrimonial  estate." 

Among  the  Athenians  the  sons  all  shared  equally  the 
paternal  inheritance.  The  daughters  seem  to  have 
been  left  in  a  great  measure,  if  not  altogether,  to  the 
mercy  or  discretion  of  their  brothers.  In  case  there 
were  no  sons  the  daughters  inherited  equally. 

The  law  of  primogeniture  was  not  known  to  the 
Anglo-Saxons,  but  was  introduced  into  England  with 
the  feudal  system  by  the  Norman  conquest.  This 
principle,  by  which  the  oldest  son  alone  inherits  all  the 
landed  or  real  property,  has  been  in  force  in  England 
ever  since,   and  has   contributed  more  than   anything 


MACAULAY  349 

else  to  form  the  government  and  social  system  as  they 
exist  at  the  present  day.  It  is  the  foundation  and  se- 
curity of  the  aristocracy',  of  their  power  and  influence 
in  the  state,  and  the  advantages  of  their  social  posi- 
tion. 

Primogeniture  not  only  prevents  the  division  of 
great  estates,  but  in  connection  with  other  causes  is 
continually  diminishing  the  number  of  landed  pro- 
prietors. It  often  happens  that  hj  the  failure  of  heirs 
in  great  families,  or  the  course  of  descent,  or  by  pur- 
chase, that  two  or  three  great  estates  are  united,  and 
once  united  are  never  again  divided. 

This  process  is  remarkably  illustrated  in  the  case  of 
the  present  Duke  of  Sutherland.  As  this  example 
shows  better  than  any  mere  description  could  do  how 
a  considerable  number  of  even  great  estates  may  be 
united  in  one,  we  quote  from  the  London  Quarterly 
Review  the  following  account  of  the  Sutherland  Estate 
and  Improvements.  The  complacency  with  which  the 
reviewer  dwells  on  this  accumulation,  and  his  aristo- 
cratic tone  and  style,  are  somewhat  amusing. 

"  The  estate  attached  to  the  earldom  of  Sutherland  (one  of 
the  oldest  dignities  in  this  empire)  was  supposed  at  the  time 
when  the  late  countess  married  Lord  Gower,  afterwards  Mar- 
quis of  Staiford,  and  finally  created  Duke  of  Sutherland,  to 
comprise  no  less  than  800,000  acres,  a  vast  possession,  but  from 
which  its  owners  had  never  derived  more  than  a  very  small 
revenue.  The  Countess,  a  woman  of  remarkable  talents,  was 
enthusiastically  attached  to  her  ancestral  district,  and  felt 
for  its  inhabitants  of  all  orders,  as  was  natural  after  a  con- 
nection lost  in  the  night  of  ages,  during  which  her  house  had 
enjoyed  the  support  of  their  clansmen  and  vassals  in  many  a 
struggle  and  danger.  She  had  the  spirit  and  heart  of  a  genuine 
chieftainess ;  and  the  name  of  the  Ban  Mhoir-fhear  Chattaibh 
—  the  Great  Lady  of  the  Country  of  the  Clan  Chattan  —  will 
be  proudly  and  affectionately  remembered  in  the  Highlands  of 
Scotland  many  a  year  after  the  graceful  Countess  and  Duchess 
is  forgotten  in  the  courts  and  palaces  of  which  she  was  for  a 


350  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

long  period  one  of  the  most  brilliant  ornaments.  To  her  Eng- 
lish alliance,  however,  her  lasting  fame  in  her  own  district  will 
be  mainly  due.  Her  lord  inherited  one  very  great  fortune  in 
this  part  of  the  kingdom,  and  ultimately  wielded  the  resources 
of  another  not  less  productive;  and  though,  as  Mr.  Loch's  book 
records,  no  English  nobleman  ever  did  more  for  the  improve- 
ment of  his  English  estates,  he  also  entered  with  the  warmest 
zeal  into  his  lady's  feelings  as  to  her  ancient  heritage.  He 
added  to  it  by  purchase  various  considerable  adjoining  es- 
tates, which  fell  from  time  to  time  into  the  market,  and  finally, 
in  1829,  one  neighboring  mass  of  land,  the  whole  estate  or 
country  of  Lord  Reay,  which  alone  comprised  not  much  less 
than  500,000  acres.  It  appears  that  from  1829  the  whole 
northern  territory  of  the  Duke  must  have  amounted  to  nearly, 
if  not  quite,  1,500,000  acres,  a  single  estate  certainly  not  in 
these  days  equalled  in  the  British  empire,  and  this  in  the 
hands  of  the  same  peer  who  enjoyed  also  the  English  estates 
of  the  Gowers  and  Levesons,  with  the  canal  property  of  the 
Bridgewaters." 

Here  is  the  process  on  a  great  scale  of  extinguishing 
both  large  and  small  estates.  This  shows  how  landed 
proprietors  are  rapidly  diminished  in  number,  and 
enormous  estates  or  principalities  formed.  In  two 
generations,  by  marriage,  by  purchase,  by  inheritance 
and  bequest,  five  very  large  and  several  considerable 
estates  are  united  in  one.  In  Scotland  to  one  great 
estate  of  800,000  acres  is  added  another  of  500,000, 
which  besides  several  others  very  considerable  in  ex- 
tent. All  this  comes  into  the  hands  of  the  same  peer 
who  has  three  very  great  estates  in  England.  The 
estate  in  Scotland  alone  is  more  than  twice  as  large  as 
the  state  of  Rhode  Island,  and  comprises  in  extent, 
though  not  in  value,  between  a  thirtieth  and  fortieth 
part  of  the  territory  of  the  island  of  Great  Britain. 

According  to  our  author,  at  the  accession  of  James 
II  the  number  of  small  landed  proprietors  who  culti- 
vated their  own  estates  was,  so  far  as  can  be  ascer- 
tained from   the  best   statistical  writers   of  that  age, 


MACAULAY  351 

not  less  than  one  hundred  and  sixty  thousand, 
who  with  their  famihes.  made  up  more  than  a  seventh 
part  of  the  whole  population.  These  small  estates 
are  now  nearly  all  extinct.  At  that  time  the  number 
who  cultivated  their  own  land  was  greater  than  the 
number  of  those  who  farmed  the  land  of  others.  Now 
it  is  estimated  that  not  one  hundredth  part  of  the  land 
in  England  is  cultivated  by  the  owner. 

The  enormous  wealth  produced  by  commerce  and 
manufactures,  instead  of  occasioning  any  division  of 
the  great  landed  estates,  has  had  a  directly  opposite 
tendency.  The  rich  merchant,  manufacturer,  banker, 
or  fortunate  speculator  invests  a  part  of  his  wealth  in 
land,  and  as  the  very  large  estates  are  rarely  for  sale, 
he  buys  the  smaller  ones  whenever  they  can  be  ob- 
tained, perhaps  in  several  different  counties.  When 
a  number  of  small  or  moderate  or  even  large  estates 
are  thus  formed  into  one  they  are  seldom  or  never 
separated. 
■  This  seems  to  be  a  melancholy,  disastrous  change 
in  the  social  system  of  England,  but  we  believe  most 
of  the  British  political  economists  not  only  see  no  cause 
for  alarm  in  this  extinction  of  the  smaller  landed 
properties,  but  consider  it  as  one  cause  of  the  great 
agricultural  improvements,  and  the  great  increase  of 
national  wealth.  A  few,  however,  among  whom  is 
John  Stuart  Mill,  the  author  of  the  work  on  Political 
Economy,  consider  the  English  system  as  affording 
a  ground  for  apprehension,  and  view  with  some  com- 
placency the  condition  of  the  French  agricultural 
population,  four-fifths  of  whom  are  said  to  cultivate 
their  own  land.  But  whether  for  good  or  evil,  we 
suppose  there  can  be  no  doubt  of  the  fact  that  by  the 
operation   of  the   causes   mentioned,   and   perhaps   of 


352  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

others,  the  number  of  landed  proprietors  has  been  for 
the  last  one  hundred  and  sixty  years  continually  dimin- 
ishing, that  nearly  all  the  land  is  held  by  a  compara- 
tively small  number  of  owners,  and  that  the  diminution 
is  still  going  on  as  rapidly  as  ever.  Indeed,  accord- 
ing to  all  accounts,  the  process  of  the  accumulation 
of  large  landed  properties  and  the  extinction  of  small 
ones  is  proceeding  with  a  continually  increasing 
velocity. 

"Mobilitate   viget,   viresque   acquirit   eundo."  a 

During  the  last  few  years  we  have  heard  much  of 
the  reforms  in  the  English  government,  the  progress 
of  liberal  principles,  and  the  increasing  power  of 
popular  opinion.  It  is  supposed  by  many  that  the 
influence  of  the  aristocracy  is  on  the  decline,  that  the 
common  people  have  gained  as  the  nobility  and  privi- 
leged orders  have  lost,  so  that  the  advantages  of  Eng- 
lish institutions  are  shared  less  unequally  than  for- 
merly among  the  different  classes  of  the  community. 

Popular  opinion  has  no  doubt  much  greater  influ- 
ence on  the  measures  of  government  and  the  conduct 
of  men  in  office  than  during  the  last  century.  What- 
ever changes  have  been  made  to  enlarge  the  political 
power  of  the  people,  and  to  relieve  them  from  unneces- 
sary and  oppressive  burdens,  is  to  be  ascribed  chiefly 
to  this  cause.  The  privileged  orders  have  parted  with 
no  portion  of  their  power  until  they  were  convinced 
it  was  no  longer  possible  to  keep  it.  Notwithstand- 
ing these  concessions  to  the  popular  demands,  we 
think  there  is  reason  to  doubt  w^hether  the  aristocratic 
principle  pervading  the  political  and  social  institutions 
of  England  has  been  much,  if  at  all,  weakened.  On 
the  other  hand,  in  seA^'eral  important  respects  the  aris- 
tocracy appears  stronger  than  ever. 


MACAULAY  553 

The  English  government,  at  least  ever  since  the 
revolution  in  1688,  has  been  practically  an  aristocracy 
of  which  the  sovereign  is  the  nominal  head.  Lord 
Brougham  remarks  that  England  is  the  most  aris- 
tocratic nation  in  Europe,  and  a  glance  at  Eng- 
lish institutions  will  show  how  the  aristocratic  principle 
runs  through  them  all. 

The  Reform  Bill  has  enlarged  the  number  of  voters, 
and  some  changes  have  been  made  in  favor  of  the 
popular  principle  in  municipal  corporations.  But  the 
aristocracy  have  the  entire  control  of  all  the  offices  of 
honor  and  emolument  in  church  and  state,  in  the  army 
and  navy,  at  home  and  abroad. 

The  following  extract  from  a  late  number  of  the 

Edinburgh  Review  presents  a  striking  and  probably  as 

far  as  it  goes  a  just  view  of  the  political  and  social 

state  of  England. 

"  To  a  superficial  glance  at  the  condition  of  our  own  coun- 
try nothing  can  seem  more  unlike  any  tendency  to  equality  of 
condition.  The  inequalities  of  property  are  apparently  greater 
than  in  any  former  period  of  history.  Nearly  all  the  land  is 
parcelled  out  in  great  estates  among  comparatively  few  fami- 
lies; and  it  is  not  the  large  but  the  small  properties  which  are 
in  process  of  extinction.  An  hereditary  and  titled  nobility, 
more  potent  by  their  vast  possessions  than  by  their  social 
precedency,  are  constitutionally  and  really  one  of  the  great 
powers  of  the  state.  To  form  part  of  their  order  is  what 
every  ambitious  man  aspires  to  as  the  crowning  glory  of  a 
successful  career.  The  passion  for  equahty,  of  which  M.  de 
Tocqueville  speaks  almost  as  if  it  were  the  great  fever  of 
modern  times,  is  hardly  known  in  this  country,  even  by  name. 
On  the  contrary,  all  ranks  seem  to  have  a  passion  for  inequality. 
The  hopes  of  every  person  are  directed  to  rising  in  the  world, 
not  to  pulling  the  world  down  to  him.  The  greatest  enemy  of 
the  political  conduct  of  the  House  of  Lords  submits  to  their 
superiority  of  rank  as  he  would  to  the  ordinances  of  nature, 
and  often  thinks  any  amount  of  toil  and  watching  repaid  by  a 
nod  of  recognition  from  one  of  their  number."  * 

*  Edinburgh  Review,  No.  CXLV. 
11—23 


354  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

In  the  army  the  officers  are  taken  from  the  nobility 
and  gentry  with  hardly  an  exception.  Commissions 
are  generally  obtained  by  purchase,  and  sometimes  by 
the  gift  of  the  commander-in-chief.  The  price  is  be- 
yond the  ability  of  any  but  the  rich,  and  rarely  has 
any  officer  risen  from  the  ranks.  Should  a  rich  par- 
venu take  a  fancy  to  a  military  life  and  buy  a  com- 
mission, woe  to  the  unlucky  wight.  His  treatment 
from  the  other  officers  would  soon  make  him  glad  to 
sell  or  resign  a  place  where  he  is  considered  an  in- 
truder. The  officers  of  the  navy  are  generally  taken 
from  the  same  class. 

The  pay  and  prize-money  in  the  army  and  navy 
are  graduated  on  the  same  aristocratic  scale.  At  the 
capture  of  Havana  in  1762  the  distribution  of  the 
prize-money  was  as  follows.  Admiral  Pococke  com- 
manding the  naval  forces  had  for  his  share  upwards 
of  £122,000;  the  captains,  £1,600;  lieutenants,  £234; 
petty  officers,  £17 ;  sailors  and  marines  between  three 
and  four  pounds.  Lord  Albemarle,  commander  of  the 
land  forces,  had  the  same  as  the  Admiral ;  the  field 
officers,  £564;  captains,  £164;  private  soldiers,  £4,  Is, 
8d.  There  was  however,  much  complaint  that  this  dis- 
tribution was  not  conformable  to  the  former  practice. 
The  distribution  of  the  prize-money  to  the  English 
army  at  the  capture  of  Paris  after  the  battle  of  Water- 
loo was  made  by  proclamation  at  London,  and  was 
probably  agreeable  to  the  established  rules  of  the  ser- 
vice. 

To  the  Duke  of  Wellington,  £61,000. 
'    General  Officers,  £1,274  10s  lOd. 

Eield  Officers,  £433  4s  4d. 

Captains,  £90  7s  3d. 

Subalterns,  £34  14s  9d. 


MACAULAY  855 

Sergeants,  Corporals,  etc.,  £14)  4)S  4d. 

Private  Soldiers,  £2  lis  4d. 

This  is  the  partnership  of  the  giant  and  the  dwarf. 
The  commander  gets  all  the  honor  and  profits,  the 
soldier  the  losses  and  blows.  This  is  apt  to  be  the 
case  in  all  wars ;  and  party  contests  are  too  often 
the  "  madness  of  many  for  the  gain  of  a  few." 

The  proportion  between  the  pay  of  the  officers  and 
soldiers  in  the  armies  of  the  ancient  republics,  com- 
pared with  the  practice  in  all  modern  nations,  is  very 
curious. 

When  Xenophon,  after  the  retreat  of  the  ten  thou- 
sand, engaged  himself  and  six  thousand  of  the  Greek 
army  in  the  service  of  a  Thracian  prince,  the  terms  of 
the  pay  were,  to  each  soldier  one  daric  a  month ;  each 
captain,  two  darics ;  and  to  Xenophon,  the  general 
and  commander,  four  darics.  Among  the  Romans, 
Polybius  says  the  pay  of  a  centurion  was  only  double 
that  of  a  private  soldier.  It  appears  from  Demos- 
thenes that  the  pay  of  an  Athenian  ambassador  in  his 
time  was  not  more  than  that  of  a  common  soldier. 

The  annual  income  of  the  Lord  Chancellor  of  Eng- 
land was  formerly  as  much  as  £20,000,  and  besides 
he  had  many  lucrative  offices  at  his  disposal.  We  be- 
lieve it  has  been  reduced  by  the  Whig  government  to 
£14,000,  with  a  retiring  pension  of  £5,000.  The  sal- 
aries of  the  Judges  are  from  £5,500  to  £10,000  a 
year.  We  do  not  mention  these  instances  of  salaries 
as  extravagant,  under  the  existing  circumstances. 
They  are  probably  not  higher  than  is  required  by  the 
nature  of  the  government,  and  the  state  of  English 
society. 

In  the  church  the  bishops,  archbishops,  and  other 
dignitaries,  enjoy  very   ample  revenues,  from  one  or 


S56  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 


M 


two  thousand  to  twenty  thousand  pounds  a  year. 
These,  with  some  exceptions,  are  given  to  the  rela- 
tives of  the  nobility  and  gentry,  younger  brothers  and 
cousins.  The  majority  of  the  clergy  seem  sufficiently 
removed  from  the  temptations  of  wealth.  In  about 
five  thousand  parishes,  a  few  years  since,  there  was 
no  resident  clergyman,  and  the  religious  services  were 
performed,  as  far  as  they  were  performed  at  all,  by 
curates.  Of  this  portion  of  the  clergy  the  compensa- 
tion varies  from  ten  to  a  hundred  pounds  annually,  in 
few  instances  exceeding  the  latter  sum. 

The  bishops  often  amass  large  fortunes.  Bishop 
Tomline,  the  private  tutor  of  the  late  William  Pitt, 
was  said  to  have  left  an  estate  of  £700,000,  and  we  not 
unfrequently  hear  of  a  dignitary  of  the  Church  in 
England,  and  especially  in  Ireland,  leaving  at  his  de- 
cease from  one  to  several  hundred  thousand  pounds. 
The  late  reform  of  the  church  has  introduced  a  greater 
equality  in  the  salaries  of  the  bishops  and  archbishops, 
varying  from  £4,500  to  £20,000. 

In  respect  to  the  church,  however,  we  have  no  idea 
that  any  attempt  to  abolish  or  diminish  tithes  would  be 
of  any  service  to  the  tenants  or  afford  any  relief  to  the 
people  in  general.  The  whole  benefit  would  go  to  the 
landlords.  There  is  much  reason  in  the  sentiment  of 
Burke,  that  a  Bishop  of  Durham  or  Winchester  may 
as  well  have  £10,000  a  year  as  an  earl  or  a  squire, 
although  it  may  be  true  that  so  many  dogs  and  horses 
are  not  kept  by  the  former,  and  fed  with  the  victuals 
which  ought  to  nourish  the  children  of  the  poor  peo- 
ple. In  the  reformation  of  the  church  by  Henry 
VIII  the  confiscation  of  a  greater  part  of  the  church 
property  served  only  to  enrich  the  crown  and  a  few 
greedy   courtiers.     The  estates  of  several  among  the 


MACAULAY'  357 

most  wealthy  of  the  nobihty  and  gentry  in  England,  it 
is  well  known,  were  derived  from  the  plunder  of  the 
abbeys,  monasteries,  and  convents.  Such  an  origin  of 
a  great  estate  as  the  Duke  of  Bedford's,  so  eloquently 
described  by  Burke  in  his  Letter  to  a  noble  Lord,  is  not 
peculiar  to  the  Russell  family. 

The  rich  plunder  expected  from  the  great  wealth 
of  the  church  was  no  doubt  one  of  the  main  causes 
of  the  reformation  in  England,  so  far  as  relates  to 
Henry  VIII  and  his  courtiers,  especially  the  latter. 
The  motive  assigned  by  the  poet  Gray,  with  much  wit 
as  well  as  gallantry,  for  the  conduct  of  the  great  re- 
former of  the  church,  was  the  primary,  but  not  the 
only  one. 

"  'Twas  love  that  taught  this  monarch  to  be  wise. 
And  gospel   light  first  beamed    from   Bullen's   eyes." 

Henry's  love  for  the  property  of  the  rich  abbeys 
and  monasteries  proved  far  more  lasting  than  his  af- 
fections for  Anne  Bullen,  and  his  reforms  were  con- 
tinued long  after  the  unfortunate  queen  ceased  to  in- 
fluence her  imperious  husband. 

The  lucrative  civil  offices  are  shared  by  the  aris- 
tocracy and  their  dependents,  except  in  a  few  in- 
stances where  extraordinary  skill  or  industry  is  re- 
quired, and  which  must  be  had  wherever  they  can  be 
found. 

The  mercantile,  manufacturing,  and  moneyed  in- 
terests have  long  had  great  influence  in  the  policy  and 
measures  of  the  British  government.  Though  the 
representatives  of  these  classes  have  always  been  in 
number  a  minority  in  parliament,  yet  from  their  su- 
perior activity  and  sagacity  with  regard  to  their  own 
interest,  they  have  frequentl}^  obtained  undue  advan- 
tages from  the  government,  and  are  on  the  whole  much 


B58  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

more  favored  in  the  public  burdens  than  the  agricul- 
turists. The  rich  merchants,  manufacturers,  and 
bankers  may  be  considered  either  as  members  or  as 
allies  and  supporters  of  the  aristocracy. 

The  House  of  Lords  is  now  far  superior  to  that 
assembly,  when,  about  eighty  years  ago,  it  was  called 
by  Lord  Chesterfield  the  Hospital  of  Incurables.  This 
is  owing  chiefly  to  continual  recruits  of  the  most  dis- 
tinguished commoners,  who  have,  since  the  accession  of 
George  III,  tripled  the  number  of  the  Upper  House. 
In  point  of  talent,  wealth,  personal  influence,  and 
weight  of  character,  it  probably  stands  much  higher 
than  at  any  former  period.  Take  from  the  House 
of  Lords  the  families  that  have  been  ennobled  during 
the  last  sixty  years,  and  though  its  legal  and  consti- 
tutional power  would  be  the  same,  its  real  power  and 
influence  would  be  comparatively  insignificant. 

These  continual  accessions  from  the  ranks  of  the 
commons  are  the  vivifying  principle  of  the  nobility, 
giving  it  health,  strength,  wealth,  talent,  and  influ- 
ence. The  leading  commoners,  the  most  distinguished 
men  in  political  life,  in  the  law,  army,  navy,  and 
church,  and  in  the  landed,  moneyed,  commercial,  and 
manufacturing  interests,  do  not  wish  to  diminish  the 
power  or  privileges  of  an  assembly  of  which  they  may 
hope  to  be  one  day  members,  and  which  at  any  rate 
they  consider  indispensable  to  the  continuance  of  the 
present  political  system. 

One  of  the  best  founded  complaints  against  the  Eng- 
lish government  is  the  neglect  to  provide  for  the  edu- 
cation of  the  common  people.  No  public  provision  is 
made  for  this  object,  at  least  none  worth  mentioning, 
except  so  far  as  it  may  be  supposed  to  come  within, 
the  duties  required  by  law  or  custom  from  the  clergy 


MACAULAY  359 

of  the  established  church.  While  so  much  is  doing  in 
Prussia  and  several  other  countries  on  the  continent  at 
the  public  expense,  though  much  has  been  said  and 
written  in  England  in  favor  of  a  general  system  of 
education,  we  hardly  recollect  any  measure  of  the  gov- 
ernment for  this  purpose  except  the  grant  a  few  years 
since  of  £30,000  for  the  education  of  teachers. 

It  may  be  supposed  of  course  that  the  same  neg- 
lect would  extend  to  the  English  colonies  and  depend- 
encies or  whatever  territories  were  added  by  conquest 
or  otherwise  to  the  British  empire.  In  Ireland  and 
Wales  their  old  institutions  for  education  were  broken 
up  by  the  English  at  the  Conquest,  and  no  new  sys- 
tem established,  and  the  mass  of  the  people  left  in 
ignorance  to  this  day.  For  the  public  system  in  New 
England  we  are  not  indebted  to  the  English  govern- 
ment or  institutions,  but  to  the  piety  and  wisdom  of 
our  Puritan  ancestors. 

We  are  much  inclined  to  doubt  whether,  in  any 
country  where  a  privileged  order  of  men  have  in 
fact  the  control  of  the  government  any  public  system 
for  the  education  of  the  people  ever  has  been,  or  is 
likely  to  be,  carried  into  practice.  In  a  republic  with- 
out any  privileged  class  enlightened  men  feel  a  com- 
mon interest  in  educating  the  people  so  far  as  to  make 
them  good  citizens  and  qualify  them  for  the  duties 
which  ordinary  men  may  be  called  on  to  perform  in 
such  a  community.  The  general  diffusion  of  knowl- 
edge is  considered  one  of  the  best  securities  for  the 
peace  and  prosperity  of  the  country.  In  a  monarchy 
where  the  sovereign  has  the  entire  power,  such  a  sys- 
tem of  general  education  may  be  formed  and  car- 
ried into  execution,  as  in  Prussia  and  several  of  the 
states   of   Germany.     Where   the   monarchical   or   the 


S60  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

democratic  element  has  the  real  ascendency  the  gov- 
ernment may  feel  an  interest  in  educating  the  people. 

Perhaps  the  case  of  Scotland  may  be  thought  an 
exception ;  but  in  Scotland  the  system  of  general  edu- 
cation was  established  by  the  Presbyterians  in  the  time 
of  the  Solemn  League  and  Covenant,  from  the  influ- 
ence of  popular  freedom  and  religious  enthusiasm.  It 
was  repealed  at  the  Restoration,  but  the  Scots  ob- 
tained the  re-establishment  of  it  at  the  revolution  of 
1688. 

We  believe  education  one  of  the  most  essential  du- 
ties which  society  owes  to  its  members.  But  what  is  a 
good  education,  and  what  will  best  fit  them  for  the 
duties  they  may  be  called  on  to  discharge,  and  the  place 
they  may  probably  fill,  is  a  very  important  question. 
The  governing  powers  in  England  have  not  yet  de- 
termined that  any  system  is  to  be  adopted,  or  that  any 
general  one  is  expedient;  and  looking  at  the  continu- 
ance and  stability  of  their  present  political  institu- 
tions, it  may  not  be  so  easy  a  question  as  we  imagine. 
For  instance,  what  education  is  best  for  an  English 
sailor  who  may  be  impressed  and  compelled  to  serve 
many  years  under  the  discipline  of  a  British  man  of 
war,  with  little  or  no  chance  of  promotion ;  or  for  the 
common  soldier,  who  in  an  army  officered  by  gentlemen 
can  very  rarely  rise  above  the  ranks ;  or  for  the  labor- 
ing classes  in  their  present  condition?  No  education 
can  remedy  most  of  the  evils  which  are  felt  by  the 
laboring  classes.  Education  cannot  give  them  employ- 
ment, food,  or  clothing,  and  perhaps  would  only  make 
them  discontented  with  the  inevitable  hardships  of 
their  condition.  There  is  very  little  reason  to  suppose 
that  the  government  have  any  such  object  in  view  as 
educating  the  common  people  at  the  public  expense. 


MACAULAY  361 

According  to  M.  de  Tocqueville  an  aristocratic  gov- 
ernment has  a  very  great  superiority  over  all  others  in 
the  ability  with  which  its  foreign  relations  are  man- 
aged. He  adduces  the  example  of  the  Romans  and 
the  English  in  support  of  this  opinion.  An  aris- 
tocracy, he  says,  is  a  steadfast  and  enlightened  man 
who  never  dies. 

There  may  be  much  truth  in  this,  but  we  think  in 
respect  to  England,  as  much  of  her  success  is  to  be  as- 
cribed to  national  character  and  fortunate  situation 
as  to  the  wisdom  of  the  aristocracy.  England  in  her 
foreign  relations  and  in  all  controversies  with  other 
powers  has  unrivaled  advantages.  Her  insular  situa- 
tion and  naval  strength  give  her  means  of  defense  and 
annoyance  possessed  by  no  other  country.  Every 
other  great  nation  of  Europe  has  seen  a  foreign  army 
in  its  territory  and  in  possession  of  its  capital.  But 
since  the  Norman  conquest  no  attempt  to  invade  Eng- 
land has  succeeded,  except  in  case  of  a  civil  war  or 
disputed  succession  to  the  crown,  where  a  great  por- 
tion of  the  people  favored  the  enterprise. 

This  security  has  rendered  Englishmen  in  a  great 
degree  strangers  to  the  calamities  of  war  except  as  they 
appear  in  the  shape  of  taxes.  To  their  minds  war  has 
been  associated  with  the  triumphs  of  victory,  the  dis- 
play of  British  power  and  valor,  the  firing  of  the  Park 
and  Tower  guns,  the  thanks  of  both  houses  of  par- 
liament, with  honors  and  rewards  for  the  successful 
naval  or  military  commanders.  The  slaughter  of  the 
battle  field,  the  sufferings  of  the  wounded,  the  groans 
of  the  dying,  the  burning  of  towns,  the  multitudes 
driven  from  their  sweet  and  cheerful  homes  to  perish 
by  cold,  hunger,  or  disease,  have  in  times  past  made 
little  impression  on  their  imagination.     With  the  Eng- 


362  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 


i 


lish  as  with  all  other  nations  success  will  for  a  time 
render  any  war  popular  however  unjustifiable.  It  is 
not  till  they  begin  to  feel  the  losses  and  burdens  of  a 
war  that  they  are  sensible  of  its  impolicy  or  injustice, 
and  wish  for  peace. 

This  geographical  position  so  happy  for  the  Eng- 
lish, we  have  thought  has  sometimes  been  unfortunate 
for  other  nations,  as  it  has  enabled  and  disposed  Eng- 
land to  inflict  on  them  the  calamities  of  war  without 
any  serious  danger  of  their  being  brought  home  to  her 
own  island.  In  the  American  Revolutionary  War  it  is 
not  probable  that  so  many  towns  would  have  been  wan- 
tonly burnt,  and  so  much  private  property  destroyed, 
if  these  evils  could  have  been  retaliated  upon  their 
authors.  't 

;  Government  is  constituted  for  the  good  of  the  whole 
society  and  of  every  member.  The  English  govern- 
ment like  all  other  governments  and  social  systems 
must  be  estimated  not  by  any  theory  or  imaginary 
standard  of  perfection,  but  by  its  effects  on  the  well- 
being  of  the  people.  We  must  judge  of  the  tree  by 
its  fruits.  Mr.  Fox  said  his  defense  of  the  British 
constitution  was  not  that  it  was  perfect  or  tallied  with 
the  theories  of  this  man  or  that  man,  but  that  it  pro- 
duced substantial  happiness  to  the  people,  and  if  this 
ground  were  taken  away  he  knew  not  what  defense  to 
make.  We  suppose  this  to  be  the  true  and  only  sat- 
isfactory ground  on  which  any  political  institution  or 
form  of  society  can  be  defended. 

Macaulay  looks  on  the  favorable  side  of  things,  and 
sees  nothing  but  progress  and  improvement,  though  he 
hears  much  complaint  of  decline  and  ruin.  The  na- 
tion in  his  view  is  sound  at  heart,  has  nothing  of  age 
but  its  dignity,  combined  with  the  vigor  of  youth.     He 


MACAULAY'  363 

thinks  the  nation  is  going  on  in  a  course  of  improve- 
ment, preserving  what  is  good  in  its  institutions,  and 
reforming  what  is  bad  in  a  peaceable  constitutional 
way.     This  is  undoubtedly  the  true  mode  of  reform. 

But  the  changes  of  civil  government  are  not  confined 
to  acts  of  parliament  or  measures  of  government. 
Time,  says  Bacon,  is  the  greatest  of  innovators. 
Time  and  the  course  of  events  have  made  the  English 
government  and  social  system  what  they  now  are,  and 
may  be  silently  working  greater  changes  than  any  min- 
istry or  political  agitators. 


viir 

BUCKLE'S  HISTORY  OF  CIVILIZATION 

This  is  the  most  important  work,  in  its  Hne,  from 
a  British  hand,  which  the  world  has  seen  for  many  a 
year.  The  theme  is  one  of  the  greatest  in  the  world. 
The  author  has  treated  it  better,  with  more  learning 
and  profound  comprehension,  than  any  of  his  English 
predecessors.  Who  is  Mr.  Buckle.?  We  know  not. 
The  name  is  new ;  this  is  his  first  work,  as  he  thus  tells 
us :  "  To  my  mother  I  dedicate  this,  the  first  volume 
of  my  first  work," —  a  pious  and  appropriate  dedica- 
tion, which  promises  other  things  to  come. 

No  Englishman  has  written  a  more  elaborate  book 
in  this  century.  It  is  learned  also,  though  not  so 
comprehensive  in  its  erudition  as  we  might  wish.  The 
list  of  "  authors  quoted  "  occupies  fifteen  pages,  and 
comprises  about  six  hundred  titles  and  perhaps  three 
thousand  volumes.  Half  as  many  more  are  referred 
to  in  the  copious  and  well-studied  notes,  which  enrich 
the  volume.  Notwithstanding  the  imposing  array 
which  this  catalogue  presents  at  the  first  glance,  its  de- 
ficiencies, in  a  writer  who  thinks  so  meanly  of  the 
labors  of  his  predecessors,  are  more  remarkable  than 
its  seeming  completeness.  Not  to  speak  of  ancient 
writers,  of  whom  only  three  are  referred  to,  no  men- 
tion is  made  of  Grotius,  Prideaux,  Vico,  Creuzer,  Du 
Cange,  Duchesne,  Malte-Brun,  Becker,  W.  v.  Hum- 
boldt, Wachler,  Llegel  {Phil.  d.  Gesch.),  Miiller  (J. 
V.  and  C.  O.),  Fichte  {Grundz.  d.  gegenw.  Zeitalt.), 
ScheUing  (Phil.  d.  Myth.),  Boeckh,  Wachsmuth,  Eich- 

364j 


BUCKLE'S  CKILIZATION  365 

horn,  Savigny,  Raumer,  Heeren  (Gesch.  d.  Syst.  d. 
Eur.  Staat.),  Thierry,  and  a  host  of  others  whose 
writings  bear  more  or  less  directly  on  the  subject  of 
this  volume.  The  author  speaks  in  the  highest  terms 
of  the  works  of  German  philosophers,  but  names  but 
four  or  five  German  books  in  his  catalogue,  none  of 
which  are  the  works  of  the  masters  in  the  philosophy 
of  history. 

This  volume  is  but  half  of  the  Introduction  to  the 
History  of  Civilization  in  England.  How  many  vol- 
umes the  history  itself  shall  contain  we  are  not  told. 
It  is  so  bulky  that  we  fear  it  will  not  immediately  be 
reprinted  here.  The  great  cost  of  the  original  will 
prevent  it  from  circulating  much  in  a  country  where 
a  laboring  man  may  buy  his  week's  reading  for  a  quar- 
ter of  a  dollar.  But  its  contents  are  so  valuable  that 
we  shall  make  a  careful  analysis  of  the  most  important, 
though  perhaps  not  the  most  interesting  parts,  and 
lay  it  before  our  readers,  with  some  additional  com- 
ments of  our  own.  The  paper  will  consist  of  two 
parts, —  an  abstract  of  the  work  itself,  and  some  criti- 
cisms thereon. 

The  volume  contains  fourteen  chapters ;  the  first 
five  are  general,  and  relate  to  the  development  of  man- 
kind under  various  circumstances  friendly  or  hostile 
thereto,  to  the  method  of  inquiry,  and  the  influence  of 
various  causes  upon  civilization.  The  sixth  is  a  transi- 
tional chapter,  in  which  the  author  leads  his  readers 
over  from  his  general  laws  to  their  particular  appli- 
cations. The  other  eight  treat  mainly  of  the  develop- 
ment of  civilization  in  England  and  France. 

In  Chapter  I  he  tells  us  that  history  is  the  most 
popular  branch  of  knowledge;  more  has  been  written 
on  it  than  on  any  other,  and  great  confidence  is  felt  in 


366  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

its  value.  It  enters  into  all  plans  of  education,  ma- 
terials of  a  rich  and  imposing  appearance  have  been 
collected,  political  and  military  annals  have  been  com- 
piled ;  and  much  pains  taken  with  the  history  of  law, 
religion,  science,  letters,  arts,  useful  inventions,  and 
of  late  with  the  manners  and  customs  of  the  people. 
Political  economy  has  become  a  science ;  statistics  treat 
of  the  material  interests  of  mankind,  their  moral  pecu- 
liarities, the  amount  of  crime,  and  the  effect  of  age,  sex, 
and  education  thereupon.  We  know  the  rate  of  mor- 
tality, marriages,  births,  deaths,  the  fluctuation  of 
wages,  the  price  of  needful  things.  Physical  geog- 
raphy has  been  studied  in  all  its  details ;  all  food  has 
been  chemically  analyzed,  and  its  relation  to  the  body 
pointed  out.  Many  nations  have  been  studied  in  all 
degrees  of  civilization.  Put  all  these  things  together, 
they  seem  to  be  of  immense  value. 

But  the  use  of  these  materials  is  less  satisfactory ; 
the  separate  parts  have  not  been  combined  into  a  whole, 
while  the  necessity  of  generalization  is  admitted  in  all 
other  great  fields  of  inquiry,  and  efforts  are  made 
therein  to  rise  from  particular  facts  to  universal  laws, 
tliis  is  seldom  attempted  in  the  history  of  man. 

"  Any  author  who,  from  indolence  of  thought  or  from  natural 
incapacity,  is  unfit  to  deal  with  the  highest  branches  of  knowl- 
edge, has  only  to  pass  some  years  in  reading  a  certain  number 
of  books,  and  then  he  is  qualified  to  be  an  historian;  he  is  able 
to  write  the  history  of  a  great  people,  and  his  work  becomes 
an  authority  on  the  subject  which  it  professes  to  treat.  The 
establishment  of  this  narrow  standard  has  led  to  results  very 
prejudicial  to  the  progress  of  our  knowledge.  Owing  to  it  his- 
torians, taken  as  a  body,  have  never  recognized  the  necessity 
of  such  a  wide  and  preliminary  study  as  would  enable  them  to 
grasp  their  subject  in  the  whole  of  its  natural  relations;  hence 
the  singular  spectacle  of  one  historian  being  ignorant  of  pol'li- 
cal  economy,  another  knowing  nothing  of  law,  another  nothing 
of  ecclesiastical  affairs   and  changes  of  opinion;   another  neg- 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  367 

lecting  the  philosophy  of  statistics  and  another  physical  science; 
although  these  topics  are  the  most  essential  of  all,  inasmuch 
as  they  comprise  the  principal  circumstances  by  which  the 
temper  and  character  of  mankind  have  been  affected  and  in 
which  they  are  displayed." 

Accordingly,  in  the  whole  literature  of  Europe  there 
are  only  three  or  four  really  original  books,  which  con- 
tain a  systematic  attempt  to  investigate  the  history  of 
man  in  the  scientific  manner  belonging  to  other  de- 
partments. Yet  in  the  last  hundred  years  there  has 
been  a  great  gain,  and  the  prospects  of  historical  lit- 
erature are  more  cheering  than  ever  before ;  but 
scarcely  anything  has  been  done  towards  discerning 
the  principles  which  govern  the  character  and  destiny 
of  nations.  "  For  all  the  higher  purposes  of  human 
thought,  history  is  still  miserably  deficient,  and  pre- 
sents that  confused  and  anarchical  appearance  natural 
to  a  subject  of  which  the  laws  are  unknown,  and  even 
the  foundation  unsettled."  Auguste  Comte,  "  who 
has  done  more  than  any  man  to  raise  the  standard," 
contemptuously  notices  "  the  incoherent  compilation  of 
facts  hitherto  called  history."  The  most  celebrated 
historians  are  manifestly  inferior  to  the  great  men  of 
science,  none  of  them  is  at  all  entitled  to  be  compared 
with  Kepler  and  Newton.  Yet  the  study  of  history 
requires  the  greatest  talents  on  account  of  the  com- 
plication of  its  phenomena,  and  the  fact  that  nothing 
can  be  verified  by  experiment. 

Hence  the  scientific  study  of  the  movements  of  mind, 
compared  with  that  of  the  movements  of  nature,  is  still 
in  its  infancy.  So  in  physics,  the  regularity  of  events 
and  the  possibility  of  predicting  them  are  always 
taken  for  granted,  while  the  regularity  of  history  is 
not  only  not  so  taken,  but  is  often  denied.  It  is  said  in 
the  affairs  of  men  there  is  something  mysterious  and 


368  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

providential,  which  hides  their  future  from  us,  and 
so  history  has  never  become  a  science,  but  only  an  em- 
pirical narrative  of  facts.  But  the  question  comes: 
Is  it  so?  Are  the  actions  of  men  and  societies  gov- 
erned by  fixed  laws,  or  are  they  the  result  either  of 
blind  chance  or  of  supernatural  interference? 

In  regard  to  all  events  there  are  two  doctrines  which 
represent  different  stages  of  civilization:  1.  that 
every  event  is  single  and  isolate,  the  result  of  blind 
chance ;  or  2.  that  all  events  are  connected,  and  so 
each  is  the  result  of  necessity.*  An  increasing  percep- 
tion of  the  regularity  of  nature  destroys  the  doctrine 
of  chance,  and  replaces  it  by  necessary  connection. 
Out  of  these  two  doctrines  of  chance  and  necessity 
come  the  dogmas  of  free-will  and  predestination. 

As  soon  as  a  people  has  accumulated  an  abundance 
of  the  means  of  living,  some  men  will  cease  to  work; 
the  most  of  those  who  are  free  from  labor  seek  only 
pleasure,  but  a  few  endeavor  to  acquire  knowledge  and 
diffuse  it.  Some  of  the  latter  will  study  their  own 
minds ;  such  of  them  as  have  great  ability  will  found 
new  philosophies  and  religions,  which  often  exercise 
an  immense  influence  over  the  people  who  receive  them. 
But  these  great  thinkers  are  affected  by  the  character 
of  their  age,  which  accordingly  appears  in  their  phi- 
losophy and  religion.  Thus  the  doctrine  of  chance  in 
the  outer  world  corresponds  to,  and  occasions,  that  of 
free-will  in  the  inner  world ;  while  the  doctrine  of 
necessary  connection  in  nature  corresponds  to  that  of 
predestination  in  man.  Predestination  is  founded  on 
the  theological  hypothesis  that  all  is  regulated  by 
supernatural  interference.  Among  the  Protestants 
this   doctrine,    accompanied   with   that   of  the  eternal 

*  He  means  Necess'ittido,  we  take  it,  not  Necessitas. 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  369 

damnation  of  the  non-elect,  acquired  influence  through 
the  dark  and   powerful  mind   of   Calvin,   and   among 
Catholics  from  Augustine,  who  seems  to  have  borrowed 
it  from  the  Manicheans ;  but  it  is  a  barren  hypothesis, 
lying  out  of  the  province  of  human  knowledge,  and 
so  it  cannot  be  proved  either  false  or  true.     Free-will 
is   connected   with  Arminianism,   and   founded   on   the 
metaphysical  hypothesis  that  all  happens  by  chance ;  it 
rests    on    the    supremacy    of    human    consciousness,    a 
dogma    supported    only    by    the    assumption,    1.  that 
there  is   an  independent  faculty   called  consciousness ; 
and  2.  that  its  dictates  are  infallible.      But  the  first 
has    not   been   proved ;   the   second    is    unquestionably 
false,  for  though  consciousness  be  infallible  as  to  the 
fact  of  its  testimony,  it  is  fallible  as  to  its  truth.      The 
present  uncertainty   in   regard  to  the  matter  of   con- 
sciousness shows  that  metaphysics  will  never  be  raised 
to  a  science  by  the  ordinary  method  of  observing  merely 
individual  minds ;  but  that  its  study  can  be  success- 
fully prosecuted  only  by  the  deductive  application  of 
laws,  which  must  be  discerned  by  historical  induction 
from  the  whole  of  those  great  phenomena  which  the 
human  race  presents.     Homer,  Shakespeare,  and  other 
great  poets  have  hitherto  been  the  best  investigators  of 
the  human  mind ;  but  they  occupied  themselves  mainly 
with  the  concrete  phenomena  of  life,  and  if  they  ana- 
lyzed, as  is  probable,  they  concealed  the  steps  of  their 
process. 

"  The  believer  in  the  possibility  of  history  is  not  required 
to  hold  either  to  predestination  or  free-will,  only  to  admit  that, 
when  we  perform  an  action,  we  perform  it  in  consequence  of 
some  motive  or  motives;  that  those  motives  are  the  result  of 
some  antecedents,  and  that,  therefore,  if  we  were  acquainted 
with  the  whole  of  the  antecedents  and  with  all  the  laws  of 
their  movements,  we  could  with  unerring  certainty  predict  the 
whole  of  their  immediate  results." 
11—24 


370  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Now,  as  men's  actions  are  determined  by  outward 
things,  those  actions  must  be  uniform,  and  the  same 
results  must  always  follow  from  the  same  circum- 
stances. All  the  progress  and  decline  of  men  must 
come  from  the  action  of  external  phenomena  on  the 
mind,  or  that  of  the  mind  on  the  phenomena.  On  the 
one  side  is  nature,  the  world  of  matter  obeying  its 
own  laws ;  on  the  other,  man  obeying  his  laws.  By 
their  mutual  action  each  modifies  the  other.  A  philo- 
sophical history  can  be  made  only  on  the  knowledge 
of  this  action  and  mutual  modification  of  man  by  na- 
ture and  nature  by  man.  The  problem  of  the  his- 
torian is  to  discover  the  laws  of  this  twofold  modifica- 
tion. First,  he  must  inquire  whether  man  affects  na- 
ture most,  or  nature  man ;  that  is,  whether  physical 
phenomena  are  more  aff^ected  by  man  than  man  by 
physical  phenomena,  or  the  opposite.  That  which  is 
most  active  and  powerful  should  be  studied  first,  for 
being  the  most  conspicuous,  it  is  easiest  known,  and 
when  its  laws  are  generalized,  the  unknown  to  be  ac- 
counted for  will  be  smaller  than  if  the  opposite  course 
be  pursued.  But  before  he  enters  on  that  work  the 
historian  will  prove  the  regularity  of  mental  phe- 
nomena, not  by  deduction  from  an  assumed  hypothe- 
sis, either  metaphysical  or  theological,  but  by  induction 
from  almost  innumerable  facts,  extending  over  many 
centuries,  gathered  and  put  into  arithmetical  tables, — 
the  clearest  of  all  forms, —  by  government  officials,  who 
had  neither  prejudice  nor  theories  to  support. 

The  actions  of  men  are  of  these  two  classes,  virtues 
or  vices.  If  it  can  be  shown  that  the  vices  vary  ac- 
cording to  changes  in  surrounding  society,  then  it  is 
clear  the  virtues  vary  also  in  like  manner,  though  in- 
versely.    But  if  there  be  no  such  variations,  then  it 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  371 

must  follow  that  men's  actions  depend  on  personal 
caprice,  free-will,  and  the  like,  on  what  is  peculiar  to 
the  individual. 

At  first  thought,  it  would  appear  that  of  all  vicious 
or  virtuous  actions  the  crime  of  murder  was  the  most 
arbitrary  and  irregular.  But  experience  shows  that 
it  is  committed  with  regularity,  and  bears  as  uniform  a 
relation  to  certain  circumstances,  as  the  movement  of 
the  tides  or  the  rotation  of  the  seasons.  Thus  it  was 
observed  that  from  1826  to  1844  the  number  of  per- 
sons accused  of  crime  in  all  France  was  on  the  whole 
about  equal  to  the  male  deaths  in  Paris,  but  the  annual 
amount  of  crime  in  France  fluctuated  less  than  that 
of  male  deaths  in  Paris ;  the  same  regularity  was  ob- 
served in  each  separate  class  of  crimes,  all  obeying  the 
same  law  of  uniform  and  periodical  repetition.  In 
other  countries,  also,  variations  of  crime  are  less  than 
those  of  mortality. 

Suicide  seems  the  most  arbitrary  and  capricious  of 
all  murders,  but  this  also  observ^es  a  constant  law. 
The  average  annual  number  of  suicides  in  London  is 
about  240.  It  varies  from  213  to  266.  In  1846 
there  was  a  great  railway  panic,  the  suicides  rose  to 
266;  in  1847  there  was  a  slight  improvement,  and 
the  suicides  fell  to  256;  in  1848  there  were  247;  in 
1849,  213 ;  and  in  1850  they  rose  again  to  229.  This 
crime,  like  many  others,  depends  somewhat  on  the  sea- 
son of  the  year,  and  is  more  common  in  summer  than 
in  winter. 

Facts  of  this  kind  "  force  us  to  the  conclusion,  that 
the  offenses  of  men  are  the  result  not  so  much  of  the 
vices  of  the  individual  offender  as  of  the  state  of  so- 
ciety into  which  he  is  thrown."  And  this  induction 
cannot  be  overthrown  by  any  of  those  hypotheses  with 


372  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

which  metaphysicians  and  theologians  have  perplexed 
the  study  of  past  events.  This  is  the  great  social 
law,  that  the  moral  actions  of  men  are  the  product  of 
their  antecedents,  not  of  their  volition.  But,  like 
other  laws,  it  is  subject  to  disturbances  proceeding 
from  minor  forces,  which  meet  the  larger  at  particular 
points,  and  cause  aberrations.  But  these  discrepancies 
are  trifling.  Hence  "  we  may  form  some  idea  of  the 
prodigious  energy  of  those  vast  social  laws,  which, 
though  constantly  interrupted,  seem  to  triumph  over 
every  obstacle,  and  which,  when  examined  by  the  aid 
of  large  numbers,  scarcely  undergo  any  sensible  per- 
turbation." 

Marriage  has  a  fixed  relation  to  the  price  of  corn; 
in  England  the  experience  of  a  century  has  proved 
that  instead  of  having  any  connection  with  personal 
feelings,  marriages  "  are  simply  regulated  by  the  aver- 
age earnings  of  the  great  mass  of  the  people,  so  that 
this  immense  social  and  religious  institution  is  not  only 
swayed,  but  is  completely  controlled  by  the  price  of 
food  or  the  rate  of  wages." 

The  aberrations  of  memory  also  follow  a  general  law. 
At  London  and  Paris  the  same  proportionate  number 
of  persons  drop  undirected  letters  into  the  post-office. 
These  things  are  so  plain,  that  in  less  than  a  hundred 
years  it  will  be  as  hard  to  find  an  historian  who  denies 
the  regularity  of  the  moral  world,  as  it  now  is  to  find 
a  philosopher  who  denies  the  uniformity  of  nature. 
This  regularity  of  human  actions  and  its  dependence 
on  certain  conditions  is  the  basis  for  scientific  history. 

In  Chapter  II  Mr.  Buckle  states  the  influence  of 
physical  agents  on  the  organization  of  society  and  the 
character  of  individuals.  The  most  powerful  agents 
are  food,  soil,  climate,  and  the  general  aspects  of  na- 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  373 

ture.  The  latter  excites  the  imagination,  and  so  some- 
times produces  superstition,  which  is  the  great  obstacle 
to  progressive  knowledge,  and  imparts  ineffaceable 
peculiarities  to  the  national  religion.  The  three  for- 
mer affect  the  general  organization,  and  cause  those 
large  and  conspicuous  differences  between  nations 
which  are  often  ascribed  to  some  fundamental  differ- 
ence in  the  various  races  into  which  mankind  are  di- 
vided. But  these  ethnological  differences  are  alto- 
gether hypothetical,  while  those  caused  by  climate, 
food,  and  soil  are  not  only  real,  but  also  capable  of  a 
satisfactory  explanation.  He  condenses  these  three 
into  one  general  term,  Ph3'sical  Geography,  and  tells 
the  effect  it  produces. 

1.  The  accumulation  of  wealth  must  always  be  the 
first  great  social  improvement,  for  without  that  there 
is  neither  taste  nor  leisure  for  the  acquisition  of  knowl- 
edge. In  an  ignorant  people, —  and  all  must  start 
ignorant, —  this  accumulation  will  be  regulated  solely 
by  the  physical  peculiarities  of  the  country,  that  is, 
by  the  fertility  of  the  soil,  and  by  the  energy  and 
regularity  of  the  work  bestowed  upon  it.  This  latter 
depends  entirely  on  the  climate,  which  directly  affects 
man's  power  of  work,  by  enervating  or  invigorating  the 
laborer,  and  also  indirectly  influences  the  regularity 
of  his  habits.  Thus,  in  Northern  countries  cold  and 
darkness  interrupt  out-door  work,  and  the  laboring 
people  are  more  prone  to  desultory  habits ;  hence  the 
national  character  becomes  more  fitful  and  capricious 
than  it  would  be  under  a  better  climate.  The  Swedes 
and  Norwegians  differ  greatly  from  the  Spanish  and 
Portuguese  in  government,  laws,  religion,  and  man- 
ners, but  all  four  agree  in  a  certain  instability  and 
fickleness  of  character.     This  peculiarity,  common  to 


374  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

them  all,  is  caused  by  the  climate,  which  in  the  South- 
ern countries  interrupts  toil  by  heat  and  drought,  and 
in  the  Northern  by  darkness  and  cold.  This  effect  of 
climate  has  not  been  noticed  by  Montesquieu,  Hume, 
and  Charles  Comte,  the  three  most  philosophical  writers 
on  climate. 

No  nation  has  ever  been  civilized  through  its  own 
efforts,  unless  it  had  a  favorable  soil  or  climate.  Thus 
in  Asia  civilization  has  always  been  confined  to  that 
tract  which  extends  from  the  south  of  China  to  the 
west  coast  of  Asia  Minor,  Phoenicia,  and  Palestine, 
while  the  barren  country  in  the  North  has  been  peopled 
by  rude  wandering  tribes,  who  are  always  kept  in  pov- 
erty by  the  nature  of  the  soil ;  but  yet,  when  they  mi- 
grate thence,  they  found  great  monarchies,  in  China, 
India,  and  Persia,  and  equal  the  civilization  of  the  most 
flourishing  peoples.  In  Arabia  the  Arabs  have  always 
been  a  rude,  uncultivated  people,  their  soil  compelling 
them  to  poverty ;  but  when  established  in  Persia,  Spain, 
and  the  Punjaub,  their  character  seems  to  undergo  a 
great  change.  In  the  sandy  and  barren  parts  of 
Africa,  —  the  vast  plain  which  occupies  the  centre  and 
North, —  the  people  are  always  barbarians,  entirely  un- 
cultivated, acquiring  no  knowledge,  because  they  can 
accumulate  no  wealth.  But  in  Egypt  the  overflow  of 
the  Nile  makes  the  country  fertile,  wealth  was  rapidly 
accumulated,  the  cultivation  of  knowledge  quickly  fol- 
lowed, and  the  land  became  the  seat  of  a  civilization 
which,  though  grossly  exaggerated,  forms  a  striking 
contrast  to  the  barbarism  of  the  other  nations  of  Africa, 
none  of  which  could  work  out  their  progress  or  emerge 
from  the  ignorance  to  which  the  penury  of  nature  con- 
demned them. 

In  the  ancient  world, —  Asia  and  Africa, —  the  f er- 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  375 

tility  of  the  soil  had  more  influence  than  climate  in  civ- 
ilization. But  in  Europe  climate  is  the  more  powerful 
of  the  two.  In  the  former  case  the  effect  depends  on  the 
relation  of  the  soil  to  its  produce,  that  is,  of  one  part  of 
nature  to  another ;  in  the  latter,  the  effect  depends  on 
the  relation  between  the  climate  and  the  laborer,  that 
is,  between  nature  and  man.  The  first  is  the  less  com- 
plicated relation,  and  came  earlier  into  action,  and 
hence  civilization  began  in  Asia  and  Africa,  and  not 
in  Europe.  But  that  form  of  civilization  which  de- 
pends on  the  fertility  of  the  soil  is  not  so  valuable  or 
permanent  as  that  which  depends  on  climate,  for  all  ef- 
fectual human  progress  depends  less  on  the  bounty  of 
nature  than  on  the  energy  of  man  which  a  favorable 
climate  develops.  And  while  the  productive  powers  of 
nature  are  limited  and  stationary,  the  powers  of  man 
are  unlimited.  We  have  no  evidence  which  authorizes 
us  to  put  even  an  imaginary  limit  to  the  human  intel- 
lect. So  a  favorable  climate,  which  stimulates  labor, 
is  a  more  valuable  agent  of  civilization  than  fertility  of 
soil,  w^hich  feeds  men  with  its  almost  spontaneous 
bounty. 

The  next  thing  to  consider  is  the  distribution  of 
wealth, —  what  portion  shall  belong  to  the  laboring 
classes,  what  to  such  as  labor  not.  In  a  very  early 
stage  of  society,  the  distribution  of  wealth,  like  its  crea- 
tion, is  wholly  determined  by  physical  laws,  which  are 
so  active  as  to  have  kept  a  vast  majority  of  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  fairest  portion  of  the  globe  in  constant 
poverty.  An  inquiry  into  the  distribution  of  w^ealth, 
therefore,  is  an  inquiry  into  the  distribution  of  power, 
and  will  throw  light  on  the  origin  of  social  and  poli- 
cal  inequality.  Wealth  will  be  distributed  between  the 
laborers,  the  more  numerous  class,  who  produce  it,  and 


376  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

the  non-laborers,  the  contrivers,  the  less  numerous,  but 
more  able  class,  who  direct  the  energy  of  the  others. 
The  laborers'  share  is  called  wages ;  the  contrivers' 
share  is  profits.  Wages  will  depend  on  the  number 
of  laborers,  and  that  on  the  cheapness  of  food ;  so,  in 
a  country  where  food  is  cheap,  laborers  will  abound  and 
wages  be  low.  Therefore  an  inquiry  into  the  physical 
laws  on  which  a  nation's  food  depends  is  of  the  greatest 
importance. 

The  food  of  man  produces  two  and  only  two  effects 
necessary  to  his  existence, —  1.  to  supply  the  animal 
heat,  and  2.  to  repair  the  waste  of  tissues.  The  first 
purpose  is  accomplished  by  non-azotized  substances 
containing  carbon,  but  no  nitrogen ;  the  second,  by 
azotized  ^  substances  in  which  nitrogen  is  always  found. 
In  hot  climates  men  require  but  little  non-azotized 
food,  for  the  climate  keeps  up  the  temperature ;  and 
less  azotized  food  than  in  cold  ones, —  for,  as  they  ex- 
ercise less,  the  body  has  less  waste  to  repair.  So  the  in- 
habitants of  hot  countries  will  require  less  food  than 
those  of  cold  ones,  and  population  will  increase  with 
corresponding  rapidity.  But  the  inhabitants  of  colder 
countries  consume  not  only  more  food  than  those  of 
warm  countries,  but  more  animal,  carbonized,  or  non- 
azotized  food,  which  is  more  costly  than  is  the  other 
kind,  for  it  is  not,  like  vegetables,  thrown  up  by  the 
soil,  but  consists  of  the  bodies  of  powerful  and  often 
ferocious  animals,  and  is  procured  only  with  great  la- 
bor. So,  when  the  coldness  of  the  climate  compels 
men  to  use  carbonized  or  animal  food,  even  in  the 
infancy  of  society  the  men  are  bolder,  more  adven- 
turous, than  the  vegetable-eaters  of  warm  climates, 
gratuitously  fed  by  the  bounty  of  nature.  Thus  there 
is  a  constant  tendency  for  wages  to  be  low  in  warm 


t  BUCKLE'S  CD  ILIZATION  377 

countries,  and  high  in  cold  ones.  In  hot  cHmates  food 
will  be  abundant,  population  will  increase  rapidly,  and 
wages  be  low ;  while  in  cold  countries  the  opposite  re- 
sult will  follow. 

In  Asia,  Africa,  and  America,  all  the  ancient  civiliza- 
tions were  seated  in  hot  climates,  where  food  was 
cheap,  the  wages  low,  the  profits  high,  and  the  la- 
borer depressed.  In  Europe  civilization  arose  in  a 
colder  climate,  where  food  was  dearer,  wages  conse- 
quently higher,  profits  lower,  and  the  laborers  in  a 
better  condition.  The  Irish  are  the  only  great 
European  people  fed  on  cheap  food ;  and  the  conse- 
quences presently  appeared  in  the  rapid  increase  of  the 
laborers,  their  low  wages,  and  miserable  squalid  con- 
dition, though  in  a  country  w^hich  has  greater  natural 
resources  than  any  other  in  Europe.  The  matter  of 
food  and  wages  may  be  thus  summed  up :  when  the 
wages  are  invariably  low,  the  distribution  of  political 
power  and  social  influence  will  also  be  very  unequal. 

Civilization  is  old  in  India.  The  climate  requires 
men  to  feed  on  vegetable,  non-azotized  food,  on  rice, 
the  most  nutritive  of  all  the  grains.  Food  is  cheap, 
laborers  abundant,  wages  low,  profits  high,  in  the 
shape  of  rent  of  land  and  interest  of  capital,  the  labor- 
ing people  much  depressed,  the  ruling  class  rich,  in- 
solent, and  despotic.  It  has  been  so  these  three 
thousand  years,  as  appears  from  the  ancient  laws  and 
maxims  which  determine  the  condition  of  the  work- 
ing man. 

These  laws  of  fertility,  soil,  food,  and  climate  are  so 
invincible  that,  wherever  they  have  come  into  play, 
they  have  kept  the  laborers  in  perpetual  subjection; 
the  people  have  no  voice  in  the  management  of  the 
state,  no  control  over  the  wealth  they  have  created ; 


378  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

they  have  always  been  tame  and  servile,  their  history 
recites  no  instance  of  their  turning  upon  their  rulers, 
no  war  of  classes,  no  popular  insurrections,  not  one 
great  popular  conspiracy,  no  revolutions  among  the 
people.  Similar  causes  were  at  work  in  Egypt,  in 
Peru,  in  Mexico,  and  produced  the  same  results  as 
in  India:  the  date,  the  banana,  and  the  maize  were  to 
the  latter  what  rice  was  to  the  former.  In  all  these 
countries  civilization  depended  on  the  fertility  of  the 
soil,  food  was  cheap,  laborers  abundant,  wages  low, 
profits  high,  the  working  class  poor  and  enslaved,  the 
rulers  rich,  insolent,  and  despotic.  We  have  not  space 
to  follow  the  author  in  the  interesting  details  of  this 
part  of  his  work,  but  only  remark,  in  passing,  that 
he  does  not  seem  to  be  entirely  familiar  with  the  ab- 
original civilization,  and  is  sometimes  mistaken  in  his 
statements ;  but  his  grand  inductive  generalization  re- 
mans secure. 

He  thus  sums  up  the  result  for  Asia,  Africa,  and 
America :  — 

"  The  great  physical  laws  which,  in  the  most  flourishing  coun- 
tries out  of  Europe,  encouraged  the  accumulation  of  wealth, 
but  prevented  its  dispersion,  secured  to  the  upper  classes  a 
monopoly  of  one  of  the  most  important  elements  of  social  and 
political  power.  The  result  was,  that  in  all  those  civilizations 
the  great  body  of  the  people  derived  no  benefit  from  the  na- 
tional improvements;  hence,  the  basis  of  the  progress  being  very 
narrow,  the  progress  itself  was  very  insecure.  When,  there- 
fore, unfavorable  circumstances  arose  from  without,  it  was 
but  natural  that  the  whole  system  should  fall  to  the  ground. 
In  such  countries  society,  being  divided  against  itself,  was  un- 
able to  stand.  And  there  can  be  no  doubt  that,  long  before 
the  crisis  of  their  actual  destruction,  these  one-sided  and 
irregular  civilizations  had  began  to  decay.  So  that  their  own 
degeneracy  aided  the  progress  of  foreign  invaders,  and  secured 
the  overthrow  of  those  ancient  kingdoms  which,  under  a  sounder 
system,  might  have  been  easily  saved." 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  379 

In  Europe  civilization  depended  less  on  the  fertility 
of  the  soil,  giving  man  its  cheap  spontaneous  bread, 
more  on  the  climate,  which  stimulated  him  to  vigorous 
and  regular  activity,  demanded  a  more  costly  food,  and 
so  prevented  the  too  rapid  increase  of  population. 
As  a  natural  consequence,  in  Europe  alone  a  permanent 
civilization  has  been  established,  and  society  so  or- 
ganized as  to  include  all  the  different  classes ;  and 
though  the  scheme  is  not  yet  sufficiently  large,  it 
leaves  room  for  the  welfare  of  each,  and  so  secures  the 
progress  of  all. 

Having  thus  disposed  of  the  influence  of  food,  soil, 
and  climate,  which  directly  affect  the  material  interests 
of  man  in  the  accumulation  and  distribution  of  wealth, 
he  next  examines  that  of  the  general  aspects  of  nature 
which  affect  his  intellectual  interests  in  the  accumula- 
tion and  distribution  of  knowledge.  The  aspects  of 
nature  may  be  divided  into  two  kinds, —  such  as  affect 
the  imagination  by  exciting  feeling,  terror,  or  great 
wonder,  and  such  as  affect  the  understanding,  and  ex- 
cite men  to  study  the  details  and  causes  of  the 
phenomena  about  them.  In  all  civilizations  hitherto 
the  imagination  has  been  active  to  excess.  This  ap- 
pears from  the  superstitions  of  the  ignorant,  and  the 
poetic  reverence  for  antiquity  which  blinds  the  judg 
ment  of  the  educated  and  limits  their  originality.  It 
is  possible  that  the  understanding  may  in  turn  tyran- 
nize over  the  imagination.  All  the  great  early  civilza- 
tions  of  Asia,  Africa,  and  America  were  situated  within 
the  tropics,  where  nature  is  most  dangerous  to  man,  and 
its  aspects  most  sublime  and  terrible,  both  in  the  con- 
stant phenomena,  such  as  mountains,  and  the  oc- 
casional, such  as  earthquakes,  tempests,  hurricanes,  and 
pestilences,  which  powerfully  affect  the  imagination. 


880  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

This  general  statement  is  illustrated  by  examples  of 
the  superstitions  generated  by  earthquakes  and  pesti- 
lences. The  illustrations  are  not  happy,  they  are  al- 
most puerile.  He  thus  generalizes  his  conclusions: 
"  There  are  certain  natural  phenomena  which  excite 
the  imagination,  incline  man  to  superstition,  and  hinder 
the  progress  of  knowledge.  These  phenomena  are 
much  more  numerous  out  of  Europe  than  in  it,"  and 
give  a  peculiar  character  to  literature,  religion,  and  art. 
To  prove  this,  he  compares  the  productions  of  a  typi- 
cal Asiatic  with  a  typical  European  country,  India 
with  Greece, —  both  "  flagrant  instances." 

The  literature  of  India  shows  the  most  uncontrolled 
ascendency  of  the  imagination.  There  is  little  prose 
composition ;  works  on  grammar,  law,  history,  medicine, 
mathematics,  geography,  and  metaphysics  are  nearly 
all  poems.  The  matter  corresponds  to  the  form ; 
imagination,  luxuriant  even  to  disease,  runs  riot  on 
every  occasion.  This  appears  in  great  national  works, 
the  Ramayana,  the  Mahabharata  and  the  Puranas,  and 
in  geographical  and  chronological  systems ;  in  the  ex- 
aggerated respect  for  past  ages,  which  is  "  repugnant 
to  every  maxim  of  reason,  and  is  merely  the  indulgence 
of  a  poetic  sentiment  in  favor  of  the  remote  and  un- 
known." "  It  gave  theologians  their  idea  of  the 
primitive  virtue  and  simplicity  of  man,  and  of  his  sub- 
sequent fall  from  that  high  estate."  It  "  diffused  a 
belief  that  in  old  times  men  were  not  only  more  vir- 
tuous and  happy,  but  also  physically  superior  in  the 
structure  of  their  bodies,"  and  lived  to  a  greater  age 
than  is  possible  for  their  degenerate  children.  Thus 
the  Hindoos  say  that  in  the  most  flourishing  periods 
of  antiquity  the  average  age  of  common  men  at  death 
was  80,000  years,  and  of  holy  men  100,000  years;  but 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  381 

some  early  poets  lived  about  half  a  million,  and  one 
king  —  his  title  is  too  long  for  our  space  —  lived 
8,400,000,  of  which  he  reigned  6,300,000.  To  glorify 
the  Institutes  of  Menu,  which  are  really  less  than  three 
thousand  years  old,  the  native  authorities  declare  they 
were  miraculously  revealed  to  man  more  than  2,000,- 
000,000  years  ago.  The  same  characteristics  ap- 
pear in  the  Indian  religion.  Its  mythology,  like  that 
of  every  tropical  country,  is  based  upon  terror  of 
the  most  extravagant  kind.  The  most  terrible  deities 
Are  also  the  most  popular.  The  same  thing  appears  in 
the  Indian  art,  which  is  an  expression  of  the  monstrous. 

Now  in  Greece  the  aspects  of  nature  were  quite  dif- 
ferent, nay,  almost  opposite ;  they  gave  a  healthy 
stimulus  to  the  imagination  and  the  understanding, 
which  led  to  the  elevation  of  man.  The  Indians  had 
more  respect  for  super-human  powers,  and  turned  men 
to  the  unknown  and  mysterious ;  the  Greeks  had  more 
respect  for  human  powers,  and  turned  to  the  known 
and  available.  This  peculiarity  appears  in  the  litera- 
ture, religion,  and  art  of  Greece,  which  are  so  well 
known  that  we  need  not  follow  Mr.  Buckle  in  the  de- 
tails of  his  learned  and  careful  comparison.  The 
Greek  literature  was  the  first  in  which  a  systematic 
attempt  was  made  to  test  all  opinions  by  human  reason, 
and  vindicate  the  right  of  man  to  judge  for  himself  on 
matters  of  supreme  importance. 

In  Chapter  III  he  examines  "  the  method  employed 
by  metaphysicians  for  discovering  mental  laws." 
Studying  the  whole  of  human  history,  he  finds  that,  out 
of  Europe,  the  tendency  has  been  tO'  subordinate  man 
to  nature,  but  in  Europe  to  subordinate  nature  to  man. 
So  he  divides  civilization  into  two  parts,  non-European 
and  European.     To  understand  the  first,  we  must  be- 


382  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

gin  with  the  study  of  nature,  the  stronger  force,  while 
to  comprehend  the  European  civiHzation,  which  is 
characterized  by  a  diminishing  influence  of  physical 
agents  and  an  increasing  influence  of  mental  agents, 
we  must  begin  with  man,  who  continually  and  progres- 
sively overmasters  nature,  so  that  the  average  duration 
of  life  becomes  greater,  the  number  of  dangers  thereto 
is  lessened ;  the  curiosity  of  men  is  keener,  and  their 
contact  closer,  than  at  any  former  period,  and  a  more 
just  distribution  of  wealth  has  taken  place  than  in  other 
countries.  It  is  only  in  Europe  that  man  has  succeeded 
in  taming  the  energies  of  nature,  and  compelling  them 
to  minister  to  him.  He  has  extirpated  ferocious 
beasts,  overcome  famine  and  the  most  frightful 
diseases,  bridged  the  rivers,  tunneled  the  mountains, 
reclaimed  land  from  the  sea,  and  fertilized  the  barren 
spots  of  the  earth.  The  most  advanced  nations  of 
Europe  owe  comparatively  little  to  the  original  forces 
of  nature,  which  had  unlimited  power  over  all  other 
civilizations. 

European  civilization  differs  from  all  others  in  this. 
It  is  characterized  by  the  "  diminishing  influence  of 
physical  laws," —  he  means  forces, — "  and  an  increas- 
ing influence  of  mental  laws."  The  proposition  will 
be  proved  in  future  volumes,  but  will  be  admitted  in 
advance,  he  thinks,  by  all  who  attend  to  these  two 
fundamental  propositions:  1.  that  the  forces  of  nature 
have  never  been  permanently  increased,  and  never  will 
be ;  and  2.  that  the  forces  of  man  continually  become 
more  powerful  by  the  acquisition  of  new  means,  either 
to  control  the  manageable  operations  of  nature,  or 
to  avoid  dangers  from  those  consequences  which  we 
can  foresee  when  we  cannot  prevent  them. 

To  discover  the  laws  of  European  civilization,  we 


BUCIvLE'S  CIVILIZATION  383 

must  first  know  the  laws  of  mind,  which  will  afford 
the  ultimate  basis  of  history.  The  metaphysicians 
claim  to  have  done  this  work ;  so  it  is  necessary  to  as- 
certain the  value  of  their  researches,  the  extent  of 
their  resources,  and  the  validity  of  their  method.  The 
metaphysical  method  consists  in  each  observer's  study- 
ing his  own  mind,  while  the  historical  method  consists 
in  studying  many  minds.  The  metaphysical  method 
is  one  by  which  no  discovery  has  ever  yet  been  made 
in  any  branch  of  knowledge,  as  it  is  impossible  for  the 
metaphysician  to  isolate  his  mind  from  disturbing 
forces,  and  his  method  does  not  allow  him  to  enlarge 
his  survey,  so  as  to  correct  the  individual  disturbance 
by  the  general  fact  gathered  from  many  particulars. 

Besides,  there  is  yet  another  difficulty.  There  are 
two  applications  of  this  metaphysical  method ;  with 
one  the  inquirer  begins  by  examining  his  sensations, 
with  the  other  by  examining  his  ideas.  Hence  there 
are  two  classes  of  metaphysicians,  the  sensationalists 
and  the  idealists,  who  adopt  different  methods  and  ar- 
rive at  opposite  conclusions ;  the  further  they  advance, 
the  more  they  differ ;  they  are  at  open  war  in  every 
department  of  morals,  philosophy,  and  art.  They 
know  no  other  method;  no  other  application  of  it  is 
possible,  and  so  the}''  cannot  reconcile  their  an- 
tagonistic conclusions.  Meaning  by  metaphysics 
"  that  vast  body  of  literature  which  is  constructed  on 
the  supposition  that  the  laws  of  the  human  mind  can 
be  generalized  solely  from  the  facts  of  individual  con- 
sciousness," Mr.  Buckle  says,  "  If  we  except  a  very 
few  of  the  laws  of  association,  and  perhaps  I  may  add 
the  modern  theories  of  vision  and  touch,"; —  he  refers  to 
Berkeley,  Hume,  Hartley,  and  Brown, — "  there  is  not 
to  be  found  in  the  whole  compass  of  metaphysics  a  sin- 


384.  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

gle  principle  of  importance,  and  at  the  same  time  of 
incontestable  truth."  This  defect  in  the  conclusions 
comes  from  the  fault  in  the  method ;  metaphysicians 
first  raise  a  cloud,  and  then  complain  they  cannot  see. 
Metaphysics  can  be  successfully  studied  only  "  by  an 
investigation  of  history  so  comprehensive  as  to  enable 
us  to  understand  the  conditions  which  govern  the  move- 
ments of  the  human  race." 

In  Chapter  IV.  he  compares  the  moral  and  intelec- 
tual  forces  or  agencies, —  he  calls  them  laws, —  and  in- 
quires into  the  effect  of  each  on  the  progress  of  society. 
In  this  investigation  he  tries  to  avoid  the  method  of 
the  metaphysician,  who  derives  his  knowledge  of  men 
from  the  study  of  his  own  consciousness,  exceptional, 
perturbed,  and  abnormal  as  it  may  be ;  and  follows  that 
of  the  naturalist,  who  takes  so  large  a  number  of  facts 
that  the  individual  perturbations  are  but  an  infinitesmal 
quanitity,  and  thence  induces  his  general  laws. 

The  progress  of  mankind,  he  says,  is  twofold :  moral, 
relating  to  our  duties,  and  intellectual,  relating  to  our 
knowledge.  This  double  increase  of  knowledge  and 
virtue  is  essential  to  civilization.  To  be  willing  to 
perform  our  duty,  is  the  moral  part  of  progress ;  to 
know  how  to  perform  it,  the  intellectual.  It  is  possible 
that  there  is  a  progressive  increase  of  man's  natural 
powers,  intellectual  and  moral ;  but  the  fact  has  not 
yet  been  proved,  and  we  have  no  decisive  ground  for 
saying  that  natural  faculties  would  be  greater  in  a 
child  born  in  the  most  civilized  part  of  Europe  than 
in  one  born  in  the  wildest  region  of  a  barbarous  coun- 
try. We  haA'^e  no  proof,  he  thinks,  of  the  existence 
of  hereditary  talents,  vices,  or  virtues,  hereditary  mad- 
ness and  disease.  There  is  no  progress  of  capacity, 
only  of  opportunity. 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  385 

The  moral  powers  —  that  is,  in  our  philosophy,  the 
power  to  know  duty  and  the  will  to  do  it  —  have  an 
extremely  small  influence  over  the  progress  of  civiliza- 
tion. The  great  dogmas  of  morals,  which  are  "  the 
sole  essential  of  morals,"  have  been  known  for  thousands 
of  years,  not  a  jot  nor  tittle  has  been  added  to  them, 
while  there  is  a  continual  increase  in  the  knowledge 
of  intellectual  truths.  The  most  cultivated  Europeans 
do  not  know  a  single  moral  truth  not  known  to  the 
ancients,  while  the  moderns  have  made  most  important 
addition  to  every  department  of  ancient  knowledge, 
and  have  created  new  sciences  which  the  boldest  think- 
ers of  old  times  never  thought  of.  So  it  is  plain  man's 
progress  depends  on  the  intellectual,  which  is  the 
progressive  agent,  not  on  the  moral,  which  is  but  sta- 
tionary. 

Besides,  intellectual  achievements  are  permanent ; 
they  are  put  in  the  terms  of  science,  and,  in  immortal 
bequests  of  genius,  become  the  heirlooms  of  mankind. 
But  good  moral  deeds  are  less  capable  of  transmission, 
less  dependent  on  previous  experience,  and  cannot  well 
be  stored  up  for  future  men.  So,  though  moral  ex- 
cellence be  more  amiable  than  intellectual,  it  is  less  ac- 
tive, less  permanent,  and  less  productive  of  real  good. 
The  effects  of  the  most  active  philanthropy,  the  most 
disinterested  kindness,  reach  but  few,  do  not  last  long, 
and  the  institutions  they  found  soon  fall  to  decay. 
The  more  we  study,  the  more  we  shall 

"  see  the  superiority  of  intellectual  acquisition  over  moral  feel- 
ing. There  is  no  instance  on  record  of  an  ignorant  man,  who, 
having  good  intentions,  and  supreme  power  to  enforce  them, 
has  not  done  far  more  evil  than  good.  And  whenever  the  in- 
tentions have  been  very  eager,  and  the  power  very  extensive, 
the  evil  has  been  enormous.  But  if  you  can  diminish  the  sin- 
cerity of  that  man,  if  you  can  mix  some  alloy  with  his  mo- 
ll—25 


S86  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

tives,  you  will  likewise  diminish  the  evil  which  he  works. 
If  he  is  selfish,  as  well  as  ignorant,  it  will  often  happen  that 
you  may  play  off  his  vice  against  his  ignorance,  and,  by  excit- 
ing his  fears,  restrain  his  mischief.  If,  however,  he  has  no 
fear,  if  he  is  entirely  unselfish,  if  his  sole  object  is  the  good 
of  others,  if  he  pursues  that  object  with  enthusiasm,  upon  a 
large  scale,  and  with  disinterested  zeal,  then  it  is  that  you 
have  no  check  upon  him;  you  have  no  means  of  preventing  the 
calamities  which,  in  an  ignorant  age,  an  ignorant  man  will  be 
sure  to  inflict." 

To  prove  this  discouraging'  proposition,  he  cites  the 
case  of  religious  persecutors,  who  are  not  bad  men, 
nor  bad-intentioned  men,  but  only  ignorant  of  the  na- 
ture of  truth,  and  of  the  consequences  of  their  own 
actions.  It  was  the  most  moral  of  the  Roman  Em- 
perors, Aurelius  and  Julian,  who  persecuted  the 
Christians ;  and  in  Spain,  "  the  Inquisitors  were  re- 
markable for  an  undeviating  and  incorruptible  in- 
tegrity." 

Religious  persecution  is  the  greatest  evil  man  ever 
inflicts  on  man ;  "  all  other  crimes  are  of  small  account  " 
compared  to  this.  It  is  intellectual,  and  not  moral, 
activity  which  has  ended  it.  The  practice  of  war  is  the 
next  great  evil,  and  in  diminishing  that,  the  moral  feel- 
ings have  had  no  share  at  all,  for  the  present  moral 
ideas  relating  to  war  were  "  as  well  understood  and 
as  universally  admitted  in  the  middle  ages,  when  there 
was  never  a  week  without  war,  as  they  are  now,  when 
war  is  deemed  a  rare  and  singular  occurrence."  It  is 
intellectual,  and  not  moral,  actions  which  have  done 
this  great  work.  For  every  addition  to  knowledge  in- 
creases the  power  of  the  intellectual  class,  and  weakens 
the  military  class.  It  is  a  significant  fact,  that  the 
recent  Continental  war  was  begun  by  Russia  and  Tur- 
key, the  two  most  barbarous  nations  in  Europe.^  The 
military  predilections  of  Russia  are  not  "  caused  by  a 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  38T 

low  state  of  morals,  or  by  a  disregard  of  religious  du- 
ties," but  by  ignorance ;  for  as  the  intellect  is  little 
cultivated,  the  military  class  is  supreme,  and  all  ability 
is  estimated  by  a  military  standard.*  In  England, 
a  love  of  war,  as  a  national  taste,  is  utterly  extinct ; 
this  result  has  not  come  from  moral  instinct  or  moral 
training,  but  from  the  cultivation  of  intellect,  and  the 
rise  of  educated  classes,  who  control  the  military.  As 
society  advances  the  ecclesiastical  spirit  and  the  military 
spirit  never  fail  to  decline.  Thus,  while  in  Greece  some 
of  the  most  celebrated  poets,  orators,  philosophers,  and 
statesmen  were  also  warriors,  since  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury Europe  has  not  produced  ten  soldiers  who  were 
distinguished  either  as  thinkers  or  writers.  "  Crom- 
well, Washington,  and  Napoleon  are  perhaps  the  only 
first-rate  modem  warriors "  who  were  competent  to 
govern  a  kingdom  and  command  an  army.t 

Three  things  have  weakened  the  power  of  the  mili- 
tary class, —  the  invention  of  gunpowder,  the  discov- 
eries of  political  economy,  and  the  application  of  steam 
to  the  purposes  of  travel.  We  have  no  space  for  an 
analysis  of  his  argument  here. 

Hitherto  Mr.  Buckle's  remarks  have  been  general, 
and  belong  to  what  may  be  called  the  universal  part  of 
transcendental  history ;  but  in  Chapter  V  he  turns 
his  attention  more  especially  to  England.  He  selects 
this  as  a  typical  countr}^, —  an  instantia  flagrans, — 
in  which  the  universal  laws  of  human  development  are 
Interfered  with  less  than  elsewhere,  and  where  for  some 

*  In  sustaining  his  assertions  here,  Mr.  Buckle  should  take 
comfort  from  the  somewhat  celebrated  preamble  of  our  Con- 
gress in  1846,  "  Whereas  war  exists  by  the  act  of  Mexico," — ■ 
she  being  the  less  intellectual  power  of  the  two. 

f  His  contrast  here  of  Marlborough  and  Wellington  is  well 
put,  and  worth  remembering. 


388  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

centuries  the  people  have  not  been  much  troubled  by  the 
two  great  disturbing  forces,  the  authority  of  govern- 
ment and  the  influence  of  foreigners.  England  has 
borrowed  nothing  by  which  the  destinies  of  nations 
are  permanently  altered,  and  affords  the  best  example 
of  the  normal  march  of  society,  and  the  undisturbed 
operation  of  those  agencies  which  regulate  the  fortunes 
of  mankind. 

Germany  and  the  United  States  are  not  typical 
countries,  like  England.  In  the  first,  the  philosophers 
are  at  the  head  of  the  civilized  world,  but  the  people 
are  more  prejudiced,  ignorant,  superstitious,  and  un- 
able to  guide  themselves,  than  the  people  of  England 
or  France.  The  great  authors  write  books  for  each 
other,  not  for  the  people,  and  the  dull,  plodding  class 
remains  uninfluenced  by  the  knowledge  of  the  great 
thinkers,  and  uncheered  by  the  fire  of  their  genius.* 

"  In  America  we  see  a  civilization  precisely  the  reverse  of 
this;  ...  a  country  of  which  it  has  been  truly  said,  that 
in  no  other  are  there  so  few  men  of  great  learning,  and  so 
few  of  great  ignorance.  In  Germany  the  speculative  classes 
and  the  practical  classes  are  altogether  disunited;  in  Amer- 
ica they  are  altogether  fused.  In  Germany  nearly  every  year 
brings  forward  new  discoveries,  new  philosophies,  new  means 
by  which  the  boundaries  of  knowledge  are  to  be  enlarged.  In 
America  such  inquiries  are  almost  entirely  neglected;  since  the 
time  of  Jonathan  Edwards,  no  great  metaphysician  has  ap- 
peared, little  attention  has  been  paid  to  physical  science  [ !], 
and  with  the  single  exception  of  jurisprudence  scarcely  any- 
thing has  been  done  for  those  vast  subjects  on  which  the  Ger- 
mans are  incessantly  labouring.  The  stock  of  American  knowl- 
edge is  small,  but  it  is  spread  through  all  classes;  the  stock  of 
German  knowledge  is  immense,  but  it  is  confined  to  one  class." 

The  progress  of  European  civilization  depends  on 
the  accumulation  and  distribution  of  knowledge ;  and 

*  This  sweeping  remark  of  Mr.  Buckle  is  founded  probably 
on  his  impressions  of  Southern  Germany.  It  is  not  true  of 
Prussia  or  of  Saxony. 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  389 

so  he  must  take  a  country  in  which  knowledge  is  both 
normally  accumulated,  and  diffused.  These  condi- 
tions are  happil}'  united  in  England,  which  he  will 
portray  as  the  central  and  heroic  figure  in  the  historic 
group,  but  sketch  in  the  other  nations  who  play  the 
special  and  subordinate  parts  in  this  great  drama  of 
civilization.  He  will  study  Germany  for  the  laws  of 
accumulation  of  knowledge,  America  for  those  of  its 
diffusion ;  France  for  the  political  form  of  the  pro- 
tective spirit,  Spain  for  its  religious  form.  Thence 
he  will  induce  the  general  laws,  and  in  subsequent  vol- 
umes of  the  history  itself  apply  them  deductively  to 
England. 

The  progress  of  a  nation  depends  partly  on  the 
method  its  thinkers  pursue  in  their  investigations, 
whether  it  be  deductive  or  inductive.  The  Germans 
favor  the  first,  the  Americans  the  last.  The  English 
thinkers  are  inductive,  the  Scotch  deductive :  —  Simson, 
Stewart,  Hutchinson,  Adam  Smith,  Hume,  Ferguson, 
Mill,  all  pursue  the  deductive  method.  No  country 
possesses  a  more  original  and  inquisitive  literature  than 
Scotland ;  but  in  none  equally  enlightened  does  so  much 
of  the  superstition  of  the  middle  ages  still  continue. 
There  is  hostility  between  the  speculative  and  practical 
classes. 

By  religion  he  means  the  theological  ideas  and  the 
ritual  service,  by  literature  "  everything  which  is  writ- 
ten," and  by  government,  not  the  complex  of  institu- 
tions, laws,  and  modes  of  administration,  but  simply 
the  privileged  classes  who  rule  officially.  He  says  a 
nation's  progress  does  not  depend  on  its  religion,  litera- 
ture, or  government.  This  proposition  he  defends  at 
length ;  a  nation's  religion,  literature,  and  government 
are   only    eflTects    of   its    civilization,    not    also    causes 


890  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

thereof;  no  progressive  country  voluntarily  adopts  a 
retrogressive  religion,  no  declining  country  ameliorates 
its  religion.  Savages  are  converted  to  Christianity 
only  by  becoming  civilized.  A  religon  too  much  in 
advance  of  a  people  can  do  no  present  service,  but 
must  bide  its  time.  Thus  the  Hebrews  continually  re- 
lapsed from  the  monotheism  which  Moses  taught. 
The  Romans  with  rare  exceptions  were  an  ignorant  and 
barbarous  race,  ferocious,  dissolute,  and  cruel;  poly- 
theism was  their  natural  creed ;  they  could  not  compre- 
hend the  sublime  and  admirable  doctrines  of  Christian- 
ity, and  after  that  seemed  to  have  carried  all  before 
it,  and  received  the  homage  of  the  best  part  of  Europe, 
it  was  soon  found  that  nothing  was  really  effected. 
Superstition  but  took  a  new  form;  men  worshipped 
the  Virgin  Mary  instead  of  Cybele.  The  Catholic 
religion  is  to  Protestantism  what  the  dark  ages  are  to 
modern  times.  Accordingly,  the  most  civilized  coun- 
tries should  be  Protestant.  In  general,  it  is  so ;  but 
sometimes  a  foreign  force  fixed  the  religion  of  the  peo- 
ple, which  does  them  small  service.  Thus  Scotland  and 
Sweden  are  Protestant  countries,  but  more  marked 
with  superstition,  intolerance,  and  bigotry  than  Catho- 
lic France.  The  French  have  a  religion  worse  than 
themselves ;  the  Scotch  have  one  better  than  them- 
selves ;  and  in  both  cases  the  characteristics  of  the  peo- 
ple neutralize  those  of  their  creed,  and  the  national 
faith  is  altogether  inoperative. 

"  Literature  in  itself  is  but  a  trifling  matter."  Its 
value  depends  on  its  communicating  real  knowledge, 
that  is,  an  acquaintance  with  physical  and  mental  laws. 
To  look  upon  an  acquaintance  with  literature  as  one 
of  the  objects  of  education  is  to  make  the  end  sub- 
ordinate to  the  means.     Hence  there  are  "  highly  edu- 


BUCKLE'S  CWILIZATION  391 

cated  men,"  so  called,  whose  advance  in  knowledge  has 
been  retarded  by  the  activity  of  their  education. 
They  are  burdened  with  prejudices,  which  their  read- 
ing only  renders  more  inveterate ;  for  literature  is  not 
only  full  of  wisdom  but  of  absurdities  also,  so  the  bene- 
fit of  literature  will  depend  on  the  skill  and  judgment 
with  which  books  are  selected  and  studied.  Europe 
would  have  made  more  rapid  progress  in  the  seventh 
and  eighth  centuries  if  all  knowledge  of  the  alphabet 
had  been  lost.  For  the  noble  works  of  antiquity 
thereby  preserved  were  not  used  at  all,  and  letters 
helped  only  to  spread  the  superstitious  regard  men 
so  much  delighted  in  at  that  time. 

Government  is  still  less  the  ally  of  progressive  civil- 
zation ;  for  "  no  great  political  improvement,  no  great 
reform,  either  legislative  or  executive,  has  ever  been 
originated  in  any  country  by  its  rulers."  Able  think- 
ers find  out  the  abuses,  devise  the  remedy,  convince 
and  persuade  the  people,  and  force  the  rulers  to  adopt 
the  improvement ;  and  then  the  people  are  expected 
to  admire  the  wisdom  of  the  rulers !  Thus,  the  repeal 
of  the  Com  Laws  in  England  was  not  the  work  of  the 
ministry  in  Parliament,  but  of  the  political  economists, 
who  proved  that  protective  restrictions  were  absurd ; 
and  thus  the  repeal  of  the  Corn  Laws  became  a  mat- 
ter, not  of  party  or  of  expediency,  but  merely  of 
knowledge ;  when  the  diffusion  of  knowledge  reached 
a  certain  point  the  laws  must  fall.  Besides,  all  great 
reforms  consist  in  undoing  an  old  wrong,  not  in  en- 
acting a  new  right ;  the  tendency  of  modern  legislation 
is  to  restore  things  to  that  natural  channel  whence  pre- 
ceding legislation  turned  them  away.  The  ruling 
classes  have  interfered  so  much  with  thev.  development 
of  mankind,  and  done  so  much  mischief,  that  it  is  won- 


k 


892  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

derful  civili.zation  could  advance  at  all.  In  Eng- 
land for  the  last  two  centuries  they  had  less  power 
than  elsewhere,  but  have  yet  done  such  a  great  amount 
of  evil  as  forms  a  melancholy  chapter  in  the  history 
of  the  human  mind ;  excepting  certain  laws  necessary 
to  preserve  order  and  prevent  crime,  nearly  all  has 
been  done  amiss.  All  the  most  important  interests 
have  been  grievously  damaged  by  the  rulers'  attempt 
to  aid  them ;  thus,  the  effort  to  protect  trade  nearly 
ruined  trade  itself,  which  would  have  perished  had  it 
not  violated  the  laws  by  smuggling.  The  economical 
evils  of  this  protective  system,  its  injuries  to  trade, 
are  surpassed  by  its  moral  evils,  the  increasing  of  crime. 
The  attempt  to  protect  religion  increased  only 
h3^pocrisy  and  heresy, —  he  might  have  added  cruelty 
and  atheism ;  the  effort  to  keep  down  the  rate  of  inter- 
est on  money  has  always  raised  that  interest.  Still, 
more,  all  the  great  Christian  governments  have  made 
strenuous  efforts  to  destroy  the  liberty  of  the  press, 
and  prevent  men  from  expressing  their  thoughts  in 
politics  and  religion,  the  most  important  of  all  sub- 
jects. Even  in  England  the  rulers  tax  paper,  and 
make  the  very  thoughts  of  men  pay  toll. 

"  It  is  truly  a  frightful  consideration  that  knowledge  is  to  be 
hindered,  and  that  the  proceeds  of  honest  labour,  of  patient 
thought,  and  sometimes  of  profound  genius,  are  to  be  dimin- 
ished, in  order  that  a  large  part  of  their  scanty  earnings  may 
go  to  swell  the  pomp  of  an  idle  and  ignorant  court,  minister 
to  the  caprice  of  a  few  powerful  individuals,  and  too  often 
supply  them  with  the  means  of  turning  against  the  people  re- 
sources which  the  people  called  into  existence." 

In  England  the  rulers  have  less  power  than  else- 
where ;  and  the  progress  has  been  more  regular,  more 
rapid,  and  less  violent  and  bloody.  She  has  shown 
the  world  "  that  one  main  condition  of  the  prosperity 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  393 

of  a  people  is  this,  that  its  rulers  shall  have  very  little 
power,  and  exercise  that  little  very  sparingl3\" 

So  the  growth  of'  European  civilization  is  not  due 
to  religion,  literature,  or  government,  but  only  to  the 
progress  of  knowledge,  which  depends  on  the  number 
of  truths  known,  and  the  extent  to  which  they  are 
known, —  the  accumulation  and  distribution  of  knowl- 
edge. 

In  Chapter  VI  ]Mr.  Buckle  treats  of  the  origin  of 
histor}^,  and  the  state  of  historical  literature  during 
the  middle  ages.  In  this  history  of  history  he  finds 
that,  in  the  last  three  centuries,  historians  have  shown 
an  increasing  respect  for  man's  mind,  and  have  more 
than  ever  attended  to  the  condition  of  the  people  and 
the  diffusion  of  knowledge.  His  sketch  of  the  progress 
of  history  from  the  oral  ballad,  up  through  all  stages 
of  monkish  absurdit}',  is  amusing  and  curious.  We 
must  pass  it  by,  however,  to  speak  of  what  seems  more 
essential  to  the  understanding  of  his  positions. 

In  Chapter  VII  he  gives  an  outline  of  the  History 
of  the  English  Intellect,  from  the  middle  of  the  six- 
teenth to  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century.  To  es- 
cape from  the  melancholy  condition  of  the  dark  and 
middle  ages,  there  must  be  an  increase  of  doubt. 
Knowledge  is  the  condition  of  progress,  doubt  of 
knowledge.  Scepticism  is  "  hardness  of  belief,"  an 
increased  application  and  diffusion  of  the  laws  of  evi- 
dence and  the  rules  of  reasoning.  "  In  physics,  it  is 
the  necessary  precursor  of  science ;  in  politics,  of 
liberty ;  in  theology,  of  toleration," —  and,  he  might 
have  added,  of  truth. 

"  To  scepticism  we  owe  that  spirit  of  inquiry  which,  during 
the  last  two  centuries,  has  encroached  on  every  possible  sub- 
ject, has   reformed  every   department  of  practical   and   specu- 


394  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

lative  knowledge,  has  weakened  the  authority  of  the  privileged 
classes,  and  thus  placed  liberty  on  a  surer  foundation,  has 
chastised  the  despotism  of  princes,  has  restrained  the  arrogance 
of  nobles,  and  has  even  diminished  the  prejudices  of  the 
clergy." 

No  single  fact  has  so  extensively  affected  the  dif- 
ferent nations  as  the  duration,  amount,  and  diffusion 
of  their  scepticisms.  In  Spain,  by  means  of  the  In- 
quisition, the  church  prevented  the  publication  of 
sceptical  opinions ;  there  knowledge  and  civilization  are 
stationary.  But  scepticism  first  began  in  England  and 
France,  and  was  most  widely  diffused ;  and  there  "  has 
arisen  that  constantly  progressive  knowledge  to  which 
these  two  great  nations  owe  their  prosperity." 

Mr.  Buckle  then  shows  the  growth  of  doubt  in 
England,  and  as  its  consequence  the  increase  of  re- 
ligious toleration,  and  the  decline  of  the  old  ecclesiasti- 
cal spirit.  It  is  the  authority  of  the  secular  classes 
which  has  forced  toleration  on  the  Christian  clergy. 
Elizabeth  at  first  balanced  the  Catholics  and  Pro- 
testants, allowing  neither  party  the  preponderance;  in 
the  first  eleven  years  of  her  reign  no  Roman  Catholic 
was  put  to  death  for  religion,  and  afterwards,  though 
men  were  undoubtedly  executed  for  their  opinions,  yet 
none  dared  state  their  religion  as  the  cause  of  their 
execution. 

Jewel's  Apology  was  written  in  1561 ;  Hooker's  Ec- 
clesiastical Polity  in  1594 ;  Chillingworth's  Religion 
of  Protestants  in  1637 :  each  is  typical  of  its  time ;  — 
in  Jewel,  ecclesiastical  authority  is  the  basis,  and 
reason  the  superstructure;  in  Hooker,  reason  is  the 
basis,  and  authority  the  superstructure;  while  with 
Chillingworth  authority  disappears,  and  "  the  whole 
fabric  of  religion  is  made  to  rest  upon  the  way  in 
which  the  unaided  reason  of  man  shall  interpret  the 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  395 

decrees  of  an  omnipotent  God."  This  fundamental 
principle  was  adopted  by  the  most  influential  writers 
of  the  seventeenth  century,  all  of  whom  insisted  on  the 
jto.  authority  of  private  judgment.  The  ecclesiastical 
spirit  declined ;  able  men  devoted  their  talents  to  science. 

"  What  used  to  be  considered  the  most  important  of  all  ques- 
tions is  now  abandoned  to  men  who  mimic  the  zeal  without 
professing  the  influence  of  those  really  great  divines  whose 
works  are  among  the  glories  of  our  early  literature."  "  The- 
ological interests  have  long  ceased  to  be  supreme,  and  the  af- 
fairs of  nations  are  no  longer  regulated  according  to  ecclesi- 
astical views." 

Sir  James  Mackintosh  said,  that  unless  some  revolu- 
tion, auspicious  to  priestcraft,  should  replunge  Europe 
in  ignorance,  "  church-power  will  certainly  not  survive 
the  nineeenth  century." 

"  In  England,  where  its  march  has  been  more  rapid  than 
elsewhere,  this  change  is  very  observable.  In  every  other  de- 
partment we  have  had  a  series  of  great  and  powerful  thinkers, 
who  have  done  honor  to  their  country,  and  have  been  the  ad- 
miration of  mankind.  But  for  more  than  a  century  we  have 
not  produced  a  single  original  work  in  the  whole  field  of  con- 
troversial theology." 

For  more  than  a  century  no  valuable  addition  has 
been  made  to  that  immense  mass  of  divinity  which  con- 
tinually loses  something  of  its  interest  among  think- 
ing men.  Both  military  and  ecclesiastical  power  de- 
cline before  the  progress  of  civilization.* 

*  In  his  summing  up  on  this  point  the  author  gives  the  fol- 
lowing explanation  of  his  use  of  the  word  scepticism.  "  By 
scepticism  I  merely  mean  hardness  of  belief, —  so  that  an  in- 
creased scepticism  is  an  increased  perception  of  the  difficulty 
of  proving  assertions;  or,  in  other  words,  it  is  an  increased 
application,  and  an  increased  diffusion,  of  the  rules  of  reason- 
ing, and  of  the  laws  of  evidence.  This  feeling  of  hesitation, 
and  of  suspended  judgment,  has  in  every  department  of 
thought  been  the  invariable  preliminary  to  all  the  intellectual 


396  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

In  the  reign  of  James  I.  and  Charles  I.  great  at- 
tempts were  made  to  restore  the  fading  power  of  au- 
thority ;  but  the  dead  could  not  be  revived.  Even  the 
Puritans  were  more  fanatical  than  superstitious. 

We  have  not  space  to  examine  Mr.  Buckle's  pro- 
found investigation  into  the  reign  of  Charles  II.,  when 
so  severe  a  blow  was  struck  at  the  tyranny  of  the  church 
and  of  the  nobles.  In  those  few  years  clerical  property 
was  made  amenable  to  Parliamentary  taxation ;  the 
clergy  were  forbidden  to  burn  a  heretic,  or  make  a  sus- 
pected person  criminate  himself  in  the  trial.  It  was 
fixed  that  all  money  bills  must  originate  with  the 
House  of  Commons ;  that  the  Peers  have  no  original 
jurisdiction,  only  appellate,  in  civil  cases.  The  pre- 
rogatives of  purveyance  and  pre-emption  were  abol- 
ished, and  the  king  could  not  vex  the  property  of  his 
subjects;  the  Habeas  Corpus  Act  made  their  persons 
also  secure ;  general  impeachments  fell  to  the  ground, 
and  the  liberty  of  the  press  became  a  fixed  fact ;  the 
feudal  incidents  which  the  Norman  conquerors  had  im- 
posed, military  tenures,  wardships,  fines  for  alienation, 
forfeiture  for  marriage  by  reason  of  tenure,  aids,  hom- 
ages, escuages,  primer-seisins,  and  other  mischievous 
subtilties,  all  went  to  common  ruin.  This  was  done  in 
the  age  of  Charles  II. :  the  king  was  incompetent,  the 
court  profligate,  the  ministers  venal, —  all  these  in  the 
pay  of  France ;  there  were  unprecedented  insults  from 

revelations  through  which  the  human  mind  has  passed;  and 
without  it  there  could  be  no  progress,  no  change,  no  civiliza- 
tion. In  physics  it  is  the  necessary  precursor  of  science;  in 
politics,  of  liberty;  in  theology,  of  toleration.  These  are  the 
three  leading  forms  of  scepticism;  it  is  therefore  clear  that  in 
religion  the  sceptic  steers  a  middle  course  between  atheism  and 
orthodoxy,  rejecting  both  extremes,  because  he  sees  that  both 
are  incapable  of  proof." 


i 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  397 

abroad,  frequent  conspiracies  at  home,  a  great  fire  and 

a  great  plague  in  London ! 

"  How  could  so  wonderful  a  progress  be  made  in  the  face 
of  these  unparalleled  disasters?  These  are  questions  which  our 
political  compilers  are  unable  to  answer,  because  they  look 
too  much  at  the  peculiarities  of  individuals,  and  too  little  at 
the  temper  of  the  age  in  which  those  individuals  live.  Such 
writers  do  not  perceive  that  the  history  of  every  civilized  coun- 
try is  the  history  of  its  intellectual  development,  which  kings, 
statesmen,  and  legislators  are  more  likely  to  retard  than  to 
hasten;  because,  however  great  their  power  may  be,  they  are, 
at  best,  the  accidental  and  insufficient  representatives  of  the 
spirit  of  their  time,  and  because,  so  far  from  being  able  to 
regulate  the  movements  of  the  national  mind,  they  themselves 
form  the  smallest  part  of  it,  and,  in  a  general  view  of  the 
progress  of  man  are  only  to  be  regarded  as  the  puppets  who 
strut  and  fret  their  hour  upon  a  little  stage;  while  beyond 
them,  and  on  every  side  of  them,  are  forming  opinions  and 
principles  which  they  can  scarcely  perceive,  but  by  which,  alone, 
the  whole  course  of  human  affairs  is  ultimately  governed." 

Even  the  vices  of  the  rulers  served  the  people's  cause. 

"  All  classes  of  men  soon  learned  to  despise  a  king  who  was 
a  drunkard,  a  libertine,  and  a  hypocrite;  and  who,  in  point  of 
honor,  was  unworthy  to  enter  the  presence  of  the  meanest  of 
his   subjects." 

His  reckless  debaucheries  made  him  abhor  all  re- 
straint, and  to  dislike  the  clerical  class,  whose  profes- 
sion at  least  presupposes  more  than  ordinary  purity. 
From  the  love  of  vicious  indulgence,  he  disliked  the 
clergy ;  and  he  conferred  the  highest  dignities  of  the 
church  on  feeble  or  insincere  men,  who  could  not  defend 
what  they  really  believed,  or  did  not  believe  what  they 
really  professed.  Such  were  Juxon,  Sheldon,  and 
Sancroft,  Archbishops  of  Canterbury,  and  Frewen, 
Stearn,  and  Dolben,  Archbishops  of  York.  But 
Jeremy  Taylor,  who  married  the  king's  illegitimate 
sister,  daughter  of  Joanna  Bridges,  and  Barrow,  both 
men  of  great  talents  and  unspotted  virtue,  were  treated 


398  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

with  neglect.  In  consequence  of  this  filHng  great 
ecclesiastical  offices  with  little,  and  sometimes  wicked 
men,  and  banishing  the  noble  men  to  obscure  positions, 
the  power  of  the  church  continued  to  decline,  and  re- 
ligious liberty  to  increase.  The  clergy  attempted  to 
retrieve  their  power,  by  reviving  the  doctrine  of  passive 
obedience  and  divine  rght ;  but  this  only  increased  the 
opposition  of  the  people.  The  Anglican  clergy  were 
friendly  to  James  II.  before  he  came  to  the  crown, 
using  all  their  strength  to  defeat  the  bill  which  ex- 
cluded him  from  the  succession.  They  rejoiced  in  his 
elevation.  They  sustained  him  while  he  persecuted  the 
dissenters,  but  when  he  issued  his  Declaration  of  In- 
dulgence, which  nullified  the  Test  and  Corporation 
Acts,  the  established  clergy  broke  from  him,  and  dis- 
solved this  "  conspiracy  between  the  crown  and  the 
church."  They  looked  on,  in  silence,  while  the  king 
proposed  to  turn  a  free  government  into  a  despotism. 
They  saw  Jeffreys  and  Kirke  torture  their  fellow-sub- 
jects, the  jails  crowded,  the  scaffolds  running  with 
blood.  They  were  well  pleased  that  Baxter  should  be 
thrown  into  prison,  and  Howe  driven  into  exile.  They 
insisted  on  passive  obedience  to  a  Lord's  Anointed, 
because  these  victims  opposed  the  church.  But  when 
James  attempted  to  protect  men  hostile  to  their  church, 
the  guardians  of  the  temple  flew  to  arms.  They  re- 
fused to  obey  the  order,  united  with  the  dissenters,  and 
overturned  the  throne.  The  only  time  when  the  church 
made  war  upon  the  throne  was  when  the  crown  declared 
its  intention  of  tolerating,  and  in  some  degree  of  pro- 
tecting, the  rival  religions  of  the  land.  When  James 
subsequently  promised  to  favor  their  order,  they  re- 
pented of  their  work.  They  opposed  William,  "  that 
great  man,  who,  without  striking  a  blow,  saved  the 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  399 

country  from  the  slavery  with  which  it  was  threatened." 
They  continued  to  intrigue  for  the  restoration  of  the 
dethroned  t^'rant,  because  his  successor  was  the  friend 
of  rehgious  Hberty.  The  power  of  the  Church  con- 
tinued to  decline. 

"  Under  two  of  the  most  remarkable  men  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  Whitfield,  the  first  of  theological  orators,  and  Wesley, 
the  first  of  theological  statesmen,  there  was  organized  a  great 
system  of  religion,  that  bore  the  same  relation  to  the  Church  of 
England  that  the  Church  of  England  bore  to  the  Church  of 
Rome."  "  In  the  eighteenth  century  the  Wesleyans  were  to  the 
Bishops  what  in  the  sixteenth  century  the  Reformers  were  to 
the  Popes." 

But  after  the  death  of  their  great  leaders  the 
Methodists  produced  no  man  of  original  genius,  and 
since  Adam  Clarke  none  of  their  scholars  has  had  a 
European  reputation.  In  the  time  of  William  the  dis- 
senters were  estimated  as  about  one  twenty-third  part 
of  the  population ;  in  1T86  they  were  one-fourth ;  in 
1851  they  were  two-fifths  of  the  whole. 

The  advance  of  the  sceptical  spirit,  and  the  triumph 
of  religious  liberty,  are  shown  by  yet  other  things, 
' —  the  separation  of  theology  from  morals  and  poli- 
tics. The  one  was  effected  late  in  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury, the  other  before  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth ; 
and  both  were  begun  by  the  clergy  themselves.  Cum- 
berland would  construct  a  system  of  morals  independent 
of  theology;  Warburton  taught  that,  in  dealing  with 
religion,  the  state  must  look  to  expediency,  not  revela- 
tion; Hume,  Paley,  Bentham,  and  Mill  have  carried 
their  doctrines  much  further.  The  Catholics  are  al- 
ready admitted  to  Parliament,  the  Jews  will  soon  be 
there.  The  power  of  clerical  oppression  was  still 
further  weakened  by  the  great  Arian  controversy, 
"  rashly  instigated  by  Wliiston,   Clarke,  and  Water- 


400  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

land,"  by  the  Bangorian  controversy,  by  Blackbume's 
work  on  the  confessional,  the  dispute  on  miracles,  the 
exposure  of  the  gross  absurdities  of  the  Fathers,  the 
statements  of  Gibbon  relative  to  the  spread  of 
Christianity, — "  important  and  unrefuted," —  the  "  de- 
cisive controversy  between  Porson  and  Travis  respect- 
ing the  text  of  the  heavenly  witnesses,"  and  the  "  dis- 
coveries of  geologists,  in  which  not  only  was  the  fidelity 
of  the  Mosaic  cosmogony  impugned,  but  its  accuracy 
was  shown  to  be  impossible." 

This  spirit  of  inquiry  reached  classes  hitherto  shut 
out  from  education.  In  the  eighteenth  century,  for 
the  first  time,  schools  were  established  for  the  lower 
classes  on  the  only  day  they  had  time  to  attend  them, 
and  newspapers  on  the  only  day  they  had  time  to  read 
them ;  circulating  libraries  first  appeared  in  England ; 
printing  began  to  be  established  in  the  country  towns. 
Then,  too,  for  the  first  time,  were  efforts  made  to 
popularize  the  sciences ;  literary  reviews  began  then ; 
book-clubs,  debating-societies  among  tradesmen,  date 
from  the  same  period.  It  was  not  till  1769  that  the 
first  public  meeting  assembled  in  England  where  an 
attempt  was  made  tO'  enlighten  Englishmen  respecting 
their  political  rights.*  Then  the  proceedings  of  the 
courts  of  law  and  parliament  were  published,  and  poli- 
tical newspapers  arose.  The  great  political  doctrines 
that  persons,  not  land  or  other  propert}^,  should  be 
represented,  was  then  promulgated,  and  the  people  for 
the  first  time  were  called  on  to  decide  the  great  ques- 
tions of  religion,  which  they  were  not  consulted  on 
before.t     The   word    "  independence,"    in   its    modern 

*  For  the  author  overlooks  the  political  preaching  of  the 
Puritans. 

■f  For  the  author  overlooks  the  theological  preaching  of  the 
Puritans. 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  401 

acceptation,  does  not  occur  till  the  beginning  of  the 
eighteenth  century.  Authors  began  to  write  in  a 
lighter  and  simpler  style,  which  all  men  could  under- 
stand. Literary  men  found  a  wider  public,  and  were 
no  longer  dependents  on  the  caprices  of  the  privileged 
class. 

Our  author  then  traces  the  reaction  against  this 
spirit  of  civilization,  and  thinks  it  fortunate  that, 
after  the  death  of  Anne, —  a  weak  and  silly  woman, 
—  the  throne  was  long  filled  by  the  two  Georges, 
"  aliens  in  manners  and  in  country,  one  of  whom  spoke 
our  language  but  indifferently,  and  the  other  not  at 
all,"  "  and  both  profoundly  ignorant  of  the  people 
they  undertook  to  govern."  The  crown  and  the  clergy 
could  not  work  together  to  resist  the  progress  of  man- 
kind. But  the  reactionary  movement  was  greatly 
aided  by  the  character  of  George  III. ;  despotic  and 
superstitious,  he  sought  to  extend  the  prerogative  and 
strengthen  the  church.  Here  is  the  picture  of  that 
monarch,  such  as  our  fathers  looking  across  the  ocean 
saw  him. 

"  Every  liberal  sentiment,  everything  approaching  to  reform, 
nay,  even  the  mere  mention  of  inquiry,  was  an  abomination  in 
the  eyes  of  that  narrow  and  ignorant  prince.  Without  knowl- 
edge, A^ithout  taste,  without  even  a  glimpse  of  one  of  the  sci- 
ences or  a  feeling  for  one  of  the  fine  arts,  education  had  done 
nothing  to  enlarge  a  mind  which  nature  had  more  than  usually 
contracted.  Totally  ignorant  of  the  history  and  resources  of 
foreign  countries,  and  barely  knowing  their  geographical  posi- 
tion, his  information  was  scarcely  more  extensive  respecting 
the  people  over  whom  he  was  called  to  rule.  In  that  immense 
mass  of  evidence  now  extant,  and  which  consists  of  every  de- 
scription of  private  correspondence,  records  of  private  con- 
versation and  of  public  acts,  there  is  not  to  be  found  the  slight- 
est proof  that  he  knew  any  one  of  those  numerous  things  which 
the  governor  of  a  country  ought  to  know;  or,  indeed,  that  he 
was  acquainted  with  a  single  duty  of  his  position,  except  that 
mere  mechanical  routine  of  ordinary  business,  which  might 
11—26 


402  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

have  been  eiFected  by  the  lowest  clerk  in  the  meanest  oflBce  in 
his  kingdom." 

During  the  sixty  years  of  his  reign  Pitt  was  the 
only  great  man  he  wilHngly  admitted  to  his  councils ; 
and  he  must  forget  the  lessons  of  his  illustrious  father, 
and  persecute  his  party  to  death.  George  III.  looked 
on  slavery  as  a  good  old  custom,  and  Pitt  dared  not 
oppose  it.  The  king  hated  the  French,  and  Pitt 
plunged  the  nations  in  a  needless,  wicked,  and  costly 
war.  He  corrupted  the  House  of  Lords  by  filling  it 
with  country  gentlemen  remarkable  for  nothing  but 
health,  and  lawyers  who  rose  to  office  chiefly  through 
the  zeal  with  which  they  favored  the  king  and  re- 
pressed the  people. 

Mr.  Buckle  gives  a  nice  and  discriminating  account 
of  Burke,  "  one  of  the  greatest  men  and  the  greatest 
thinkers  who  has  ever  devoted  himself  to  the  practice 
of  English  politics."  We  have  seen  no  picture  so 
just  of  this  great  man  when  sane,  and  also  when  mad- 
ness had  made  him  the  most  dangerous  of  lunatics. 
But  we  must  pass  it  by,  and  also  his  account  of  the 
American  Revolution,  and  the  reaction  in  England  oc- 
casioned by  the  troubles  in  ri*ance. 

Chapter  VIII  relates  the  history  of  the  French  in- 
tellect from  the  middle  of  the  fifteenth  century  to  the 
reign  of  Louis  XIV.  It  is  one  of  the  most  learned, 
original,  and  instructive  chapters  in  the  book.  Great 
events  pass  before  us,  and  also  great  men, —  Henry  IV., 
Montaigne,  Richelieu,  Descartes,  and  their  famous 
contemporaries.     But  we  have  no  time  to  look  at  them. 

Chapter  IX  is  devoted  to  the  "  History  of  the  Pro- 
tective Spirit  and  Comparison  of  it  in  France  and 
England."  We  must  submit  a  short  analysis  of  its 
contents. 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  403 

Modern  civilization  began  to  dawn  in  the  tenth  and 
eleventh  centuries ;  in  the  twelfth  it  had  reached  all 
the  nations  now  civilized.  The  people  began  to  rebel 
against  the  clergy,  who  had  once  protected  them  against 
the  military  rulers.  This  is  the  starting-point  of 
modern  civilization.  Then  the  clergy  began  sys- 
tematically tc  punish  men  for  heresy ;  inquisitions,  tor- 
turing, burnii  .;s,  and  the  like,  became  general.  Then 
began  an  unci  ising  struggle  between  the  advocates  of 
inquiry  and  \  le  advocates  of  tradition.  Then  the 
feudal  system  ,  egan,  and  set  the  example  of  a  large 
public  polity  in  which  the  clerical  body  as  such  had 
no  place.  Accordingly  there  came  a  struggle  between 
feudality  and  the  church.  European  aristocracy  be- 
gan, and  in  the  organization  of  society  took  the  place 
of  the  church.  William  the  Conqueror  brought  feu- 
dalism to  England,  but  made  each  vassal  dependent  on 
the  king,  not  merely  on  his  feudal  superior ;  while  in 
France  the  great  lords  and  their  vassals  were  inde- 
pendent of  the  king.  Hence  arose  the  great  differ- 
ence between  the  English  and  French  aristocracy.  The 
former,  being  too  feeble  to  resist  the  king,  allied  them- 
selves with  the  people  to  uphold  their  common  right 
against  the  king ;  the  people  acquired  a  tone  of  inde- 
pendence and  lofty  bearing  with  the  habits  of  self- 
government,  and  founded  their  great  civil  and  political 
institutions.  In  France  the  great  lords  resisted  the 
people.  Hence,  when  the  feudal  system  declined  in  the 
fourteenth  century,  in  one  country  the  French  king 
took  the  authority,  and  power  became  more  and  more 
centralized,  while  the  English  people  took  it  in  the 
other,  and  power  became  progressively  diffused. 
When  evil  days  set  in,  and  the  invasions  of  despotism 
have  begun,  liberty  will  be  retained,  not  by  those  who 


404  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

show  the  oldest  deeds  and  longest  charters,  but  by  those 
most  inured  to  independence,  and  most  regardless  of 
that  insidious  protection  which  the  upper  classes  throw 
around  them.  Men  can  never  be  free  unless  they  are 
educated  to  freedom,  and  that  training  is  by  institu- 
tions, not  books, —  by  self -discipline,  self-reliance,  self- 
government. 

The  protective  spirit  was  strong  enough  in  France 
to  resist  the  Reformation,  and  preserve  to  the  clergy 
the  forms  of  this  ancient  supremacy ;  in  England  it 
was  opposed  by  the  great  nobles, —  who  are  to  politics 
what  the  priests  were  to  religion, —  but  carried  by  the 
people.  At  the  accession  of  Elizabeth  there  was  an 
intimate  connection  between  the  English  nobles  and  the 
Catholic  clergy  ;  she  therefore  .must  choose  her  ministers 
from  the  commoners,  hence  came  the  two  Bacons,  the 
two  Cecils,  KnoUys,  Sadler,  Smith,  Throgmorton,  and 
Walsingham, —  the  most  eminent  statesmen  and 
diplomatists  of  her  reign.  The  Pope  taunted  her  with 
excluding  the  ancient  nobility  and  raising  obscure  peo- 
ple to  honor;  the  rebellion  of  1569  was  the  rising  of 
the  great  families  of  the  North  against  "  the  upstart 
and  plebeian  administration  of  the  queen."  At  first 
James  and  Charles  tried  to  revive  the  power  of  the 
two  great  protective  classes,  the  nobles  and  the  clergy ; 
but  they  could  not  execute  their  michievous  plans,  for 
there  arose  what  Clarendon  called  "  the  most  pro- 
digious, the  boldest  rebellion  that  any  age  or  country 
ever  brought  forth."  This  was  an  outbreak  of  the 
democratic  spirit,  the  political  form  of  a  movement  of 
which  the  Reformation  was  the  religious  form. 

In  Chapter  X  Mr.  Buckle  makes  a  comparison  be- 
tween the  English  Rebellion  and  the  contemporary 
Fronde,  and  shows  that  the  energy  of  the  protective 


BUCKLE'S  CWILIZATION  405 

spirit  in  France  caused  the  failure  of  the  latter.  In 
France  the  people,  not  accustomed  to  self-government, 
intrusted  the  conduct  of  this  rebellion  to  great  noble- 
men ;  in  England  they  took  the  matter  into  their  own 
hands,  and  carried  it  through. 

Chapters  XI  and  XII  treat  of  the  age  of  Louis 
XIV  and  his  successor,  of  the  protective  spirit  ap- 
plied to  literature,  of  the  consequences  of  the  alliance 
between  the  intellectual  and  the  governing  classes,  of 
the  reaction  against  this  spirit,  and  of  the  distant 
preparations  for  the  French  Revolution.  Both  chap- 
ters are  well  studied,  rich  in  learning,  in  critical  judg- 
ment on  men  and  things,  and  full  of  original  opinions. 
No  writer,  we  think,  has  given  so  just  an  account  of 
the  good  and  ill  of  Louis  XIV,  and  surely  none  of  the 
progress  of  the  French  mind  during  that  period.  We 
are  compelled  to  pass  them  over.  No  man  has  given 
so  careful  and  exact  an  account  of  the  character  of 
Voltaire,  and  the  good  services  he  rendered  to  the 
world. 

In  Chapters  XIII  and  XIV  Mr.  Buckle  discusses 
the  historical  literature  of  France  from  the  end  of  the 
sixteenth  to  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century,  and 
the  proximate  causes  of  the  French  Revolution  after 
the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century.  They  are 
learned,  exact,  and  profound.  But  we  have  no  space 
for  an  analysis. 

The  plan  of  Mr.  Buckle's  book  is  quite  faulty,  both 
confused  and  defective.  When  he  began  to  print,  we 
doubt  if  he  knew  exactly  what  he  would  do.  At  first 
he  appears  to  intend  writing  a  Universal  History  of 
Civilization ;  he  lays  down  his  rules  accordingly,  and 
begins  his  work.  But  finding  at  length  the  difficulties 
greater  than  he  imagined,  he  says  he  has  abandoned 


406  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

his  original  scheme,  and  reluctantly  determined  to 
write,  not  the  history  of  the  civilization  of  mankind, 
but  that  of  a  single  country ;  and  accordingly  selects 
England  as  the  best  type  of  normal  developments. 

He  has  no  preface  or  special  introduction  to  this 
volume.  He  does  not,  at  the  outset,  tell  his  readers 
what  he  intends  to  do,  on  the  whole,  and  how  many  vol- 
umes he  designs  to  regale  them  with ;  and  then  dis- 
tribute the  work  into  its  several  parts,  and  lay  before 
us  a  plan  of  the  entertainment,  with  a  bill  of  fare, 
showing  what  we  are  to  feast  upon,  and  when  each  spe- 
cial dish  is  to  appear.  In  various  parts  of  the  volume 
he  hints  at  his  plan,  rather  vaguely  intimating  what 
he  intends  to  do.  Thus  the  introduction  is  scattered 
piecemeal  throughout  a  volume  of  nearly  a  thousand 
pages. 

On  his  title  the  book  is  called  "  History  of  Civiliza- 
tion in  England,"  but  the  "  running-title,"  at  the  head 
of  each  page,  is  "  General  Introduction,"  of  which  it 
seems  this  volume  is  but  a  part, —  one  or  two  more  on 
the  same  preliminary  theme  being  hinted  at.  Only  the 
first  six  chapters  are,  properly  speaking.  Introductory 
to  the  History  of  Civilization ;  the  rest  are  the  actual 
History  of  Civilization  in  England  and  France. 

The  volume  is  divided  only  into  chapters,  not  also 
into  books,  and  the  arrangement  of  the  chapters  is 
not  very  good ;  so  the  author  is  often  forced  to  repeat 
what  had  been  sufficiently  said  before.  As  the  work 
is  not  completed,  perhaps  it  would  be  excessive  to  ask 
for  an  index, —  such  as  generous  Mr.  Macaulay  so 
kindly  throws  in  with  his  magnificent  composition;  but 
we  think  the  reader  of  so  big  a  book  has  a  right  to 
claim  a  copious  table  of  contents  at  the  beginning,  and 
a  descriptive  "  heading  "  on  each  of  the  nine  or  ten 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  407 

hundred  pages.  But  Mr.  Buckle  gives  us  neither  the 
one  nor  the  other.  Besides,  the  titles  of  the  chapters 
do  not  always  sufficiently  indicate  the  contents. 

But  these  faults  can  be  easily  corrected  in  the  next 
edition,  which  is  sure  to  be  called  for  when  the  public 
recovers  from  this  painful  but  healing  panic.  We 
would  modestly  hint  to  the  author  the  following  scheme 
for  his  grand  work. 

A  Preface,  setting  forth  the  purpose  of  the  work 
and  its  probable  extent.  The  volume  itself  might  thus 
be  divided  into  Books  and  Chapters.  Book  I.  Trans- 
cendental History.  Chap.  I.  Resources  and  Purposes 
of  the  Historian ;  Chap.  II.  Regularity  of  Human 
Actions,  and  the  Causes  thereof ;  Chap.  III.  Influence 
of  Physical  Forces  on  the  Development  of  Man,  on 
the  Organization  of  Society  and  the  Character  of  In- 
dividuals ;  Chap.  IV.  Examination  of  the  Metaphys- 
ical Method  of  Investigating  the  Spiritual  Faculties 
of  Man ;  Chap.  V.  Comparison  of  the  Power  of  the 
Moral  and  Intellectual  Faculties, —  their  relative  In- 
fluence on  the  Civilization  of  Mankind ;  Chap.  VI.  The 
Effect  of  Religion,  Literature,  and  Government  on 
that  Civilization. 

Book  II.  Origin  of  Historical  Literature  in  general, 
and  its  Progressive  Development  in  Europe,  from  the 
Decline  of  the  Classic  Nations  to  the  end  of  the  Middle 
Ages. 

Book  III.  Outline  of  the  Intellectual  History  of  the 
English,  from  the  end  of  the  Middle  Ages  till  the  end 
of  the  Eighteenth  Century. 

Book  IV.  Intellectual  and  Moral  History  of  the 
French,  from  the  end  of  the  Middle  Ages  to  the  end 
of  the  Eighteenth  Century.  Chap.  I.  General  Out- 
line thereof,  till  the  Accession  of  Louis  XIV. ;  Chap. 


408  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

II.  General  History  of  the  Protective  Spirit,  and  a 
Comparison  of  its  Special  Effects  in  France  and  Eng- 
land ;  Chap.  III.  Comparison  between  the  French  and 
English  Rebellions  of  the  Seventeenth  Century ;  Chap. 
IV.  Reign  of  Louis  XIV, —  Effect  of  the  Protective 
Spirit  on  Literature,  and  of  the  consequent  Union  of 
the  Intellectual  and  the  Governing  Classes ;  Chap.  V. 
Reaction  against  the  Protective  Spirit, —  Remote 
Preparation  for  the  French  Revolution ;  Chap.  VI. 
Progressive  Developments  of  Historical  Literature  in 
France,  from  the  end  of  the  Middle  Ages  to  the  end 
of  the  Eighteenth  Century ;  Chap.  VII.  Proximate 
Causes  of  the  French  Revolution,  after  the  middle  of 
the  Eighteenth  Century. 

We  do  not  say  this  is  the  best  possible  arrangement 
of  the  valuable  matter  which  Mr.  Buckle  spreads  out 
before  us,  but  one  better  than  the  present ;  and  likely 
to  save  some  confusion,  and  to  spare  both  writer  and 
reader  some  repetitions  which  now  embarrass  the  de- 
velopment of  his  great  thoughts. 

There  is  a  little  confusion  in  his  use  of  terms.  Thus 
he  uses  the  word  law  when  he  means  force,  power,  or 
even  a  special  human  faculty.  We  take  it,  a  law 
is  not  a  force  (or  power),  but  the  constant  mode  of 
operation  in  which  that  force  acts :  it  is  the  manner 
of  a  cause,  not  the  cause  of  a  manner.  He  often 
speaks  of  the  progress  of  mankind  or  a  nation,  but 
does  not  tell  what  it  consists  in.  Speaking  generally, 
we  suppose  the  progress  of  mankind  may  be  summed 
up  in  these  three  things: — 1.  The  development  of 
man's  natural  faculties.  2.  The  consequent  acquisi- 
tion of  power  over  the  material  world.  3.  The  or- 
ganization of  men  into  small  or  large  companies  hav- 
ing corporate  unity  of  action  for  the  social  whole,  and. 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  409 

individual  freedom  for  the  personal  parts.  It  would 
be  an  improvement  if  the  author  would  favor  us  with 
a  definition  of  Civilization,  which  might  properl}'  be 
made  in  the  Preface. 

The  author's  style' is  clear  and  distinct,  not  ambi- 
tious or  ornamented.  We  often  pause  to  admire  a 
great  thought,  a  w^ide  and  felicitous  generalization,  or 
a  nice  account  of  some  special  detail,  nay,  to  question 
the  truth  of  a  statement  of  fact,  or  of  a  philosophic  in- 
duction ;  we  never  stop  to  puzzle  over  a  difficult  sen- 
tence. Now^  and  then  he  rises  to  eloquence, —  the 
elevation  of  his  language  coming  from  a  moral,  and 
not  a  merely  intellectual  cause.  We  do  not  always 
agree  with  the  argument,  but  remember  no  instance 
in  which  he  uses  a  sophism,  or  practices  any  trick  on 
the  mind  or  emotions  of  his  readers ;  he  never  throws 
dust  in  their  eyes.  Sometimes  the  evidence  he  offers  is 
obviously  inadequate  to  convey  the  writer's  certainty 
to  the  reader ;  then  he  confesses  the  fact.  We  remem- 
ber no  ill-natured  line  in  all  the  book,  no  ungenerous 
sentiment.  It  is  written  in  the  special  interest  of  no 
class,  nation,  or  race,  but  in  the  general  interest  of 
mankind. 

We  must  now  mention  in  detail  some  things  which 
seem  to  require  a  little  further  notice  at  our  hands. 

He  says  w^e  are  enabled  to  compare  the  condition 
of  mankind  in  every  stage  of  civilization,  and  under 
every  variety  of  circumstance.  We  think  the  collec- 
tion of  facts  is  not  yet  quite  adequate  to  convey  an 
idea  of  the  lowest  stage,  Man's  existence  may  be  di- 
vided into  six  periods, —  the  wild,  savage,  barbarous, 
half-civilized,  and  enlightened.  Scholarly  men  know 
little  of  the  first ;  for  many  years  it  has  not  been  a 
favorite    subject    of    research.     Lafitau,    Monboddo, 


410  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Meiners,^  and  others,  have  collected  important  facts ; 
many  more  still  lie  unused  in  the  works  of  travelers, 
geographers,  and  naturalists.  Within  a  few  years 
Colonel  Sleeman  related  some  exceedingly  interesting 
particulars  which  came  under  his  notice  in  India  ^ ;  we 
refer  to  the  children  brought  up  by  the  wolves  in 
Hindustan,  and  subsequently  reclaimed.  Captain  Gib- 
son of  New  York  has  told  some  things  highly  im- 
portant if  true.^  Scholars  know  little  of  the  condi- 
tion of  the  wild  men  who  are  below  the  savage,  though 
now  and  then  one  of  that  class  is  exhibited  in  our 
great  towns  as  a  show.  But,  as  mankind  started  from 
this  primeval  condition,  it  becomes  important  to  study 
those  tribes  which  have  advanced  least  from  it,  and 
such  isolated  persons  as  Colonel  Sleeman  speaks  of, 
who  occur  from  time  to  time  even  in  Germany  and 
France,  and  to  gather  together  the  facts  scattered 
in  the  works  of  ancient  and  modem  writers,  from 
Herodotus  to  the  travelers  in  the  American  interior. 
The  cannibals  of  Polynesia  may  shed  much  light  on 
the  historical  development  of  the  human  race.  Writ- 
ers make  great  mistakes  through  their  ignorance  of 
the  primitive  condition  of  mankind. 

Mr.  Buckle  says  we  cannot  make  experiments  in 
civilization,  and  thereby  determine  either  facts  of 
man's  nature  or  laws  of  his  developments,  and  thus 
it  is  more  difficult  to  master  human  history.  This  is 
true,  but  at  this  day  so  many  human  experiments  are 
taking  place  spontaneously  that  a  philosopher  need 
hardly  ask  for  more,  even  if  he  had  power  to  make 
them  directly.  Thus  we  have  all  the  five  great  races 
before  us, —  to  adopt  that  convenient  division, —  liv- 
ing separately  in  some  places,  and  mingling  their 
blood    in    others.     There    are    nations    in    all    the    six 


I-  BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  411 

■  stages  of  development,  except  the  lowest,  and  perhaps 
■some  even  in  that  condition  or  very  near  it ;  it  is  a  wide 
■range  from  the  Dyaks  of  New  Guinea  to  the  Royal 
■Academy  of  London.  There  are  five  great  forms  of 
civilized  religion  still  in  the  full  tide  of  experiment, — 
the  Brahminic,  Buddhistic,  Jewish,  Christian,  and  Mo- 
hammedan,—  not  to  mention  Mormons.  Catholicism 
and  Protestantism  stand  side  by  side  in  Christendom ; 
there  are  many  Protestant  sects  experimenting  on  man- 
kind. The  three  great  forms  of  government,  and 
many  transitional  forms,  may  be  studied  in  their 
actual  works.  The  experiment  of  labor  is  tried  in 
many  forms,  from  slavery  to  entire  unrestricted  free- 
dom. Polyandry  still  prevails  as  an  institution  in 
Siberia  and  other  parts  of  Asia, —  nay,  in  all  the  great 
towns  of  the  world  as  a  profession ;  what  is  the  in- 
stantial  life  of  the  tribe  in  Tartary,  as  it  once  was 
in  Scotland,  is  the  exceptional  life  of  the  individual 
harlot  in  London  and  Boston.  Polygamy  can  be  stud- 
ied in  Turkey  and  Utah,  where  it  is  a  lawful  institu- 
tion, and  in  many  places  in  its  unlawful  forms.  In 
the  United  States  we  have  three  races  of  men,  Ethi- 
opian, American,  Caucasian,  here  living  separate,  or 
there  mingling  their  blood.  In  one  part  of  the  Union 
the  public  takes  great  pains  to  educate  and  foster  the 
laboring  people ;  in  another,  the  public  makes  it  penal 
to  educate  them.^  There  are  few  experiments  a  philos- 
opher would  wish  made  with  mankind  which  mankind 
is  not  making  without  his  advice.  We  think,  however, 
of  two  not  yet  attempted.  One  is  to  allow  women 
the  same  political  rights  as  the  men ;  the  other,  to  put 
honest  men  in  political  office.  Neither  has  been  tried 
as  yet. 

Mr.  Buckle  denies  that  there  is  any  original  differ- 
ence in  the  faculties  of  different  races  of  men. 


412  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

"  Original  distinctions  of  race  are  altogether  hypothetical." 
"  We  have  no  proof  of  the  existence  of  hereditary  talents, 
vices,  or  virtues;  we  cannot  safely  assume  that  there  has  been 
any  permanent  improvement  in  the  moral  or  intellectual  facul- 
ties of  man,  nor  have  we  any  decisive  ground  for  saying  that 
these  faculties  are  likely  to  be  greater  in  an  infant  born  in 
the  most  civilized  part  of  Europe  than  in  one  born  in  the  wild- 
est region  of  a  barbarous  country." 

We  are  surprised  at  this  statement,  coming  from  a 
man  of  such  a  comprehensive  mind,  and  one  so  exceed- 
ingly well  read  in  many  departments  of  human 
thought.  Looking  at  the  matter  on  a  large  scale,  it 
seems  to  us  that  the  difference  in  the  natural  endow- 
ment of  different  races  is  enormous.  All  the  great, 
permanent,  and  progressive  civilizations  are  Caucas- 
ian. The  Mongolian  in  China  is  no  longer  progres- 
sive ;  no  other  race  has  reached  the  enlightened  state. 
All  the  six  forms  of  civilized  religion,  Brahminic,  He- 
brew, Buddhistic,  Classic  (Greek  and  Roman),  Chris- 
tian, Mahometan,  are  Caucasian.  All  the  great  works 
of  science,  literature,  poetry,  eloquence,  and  the  fine 
arts  are  from  the  same  race.  So  are  all  the  liberal 
governments, —  the  democracies,  republics,  aristocra- 
cies, limited  monarchies.  No  other  race  ever  got  be- 
yond a  despotism  limited  by  fear  of  assassination. 
Surely  the  inductive  philosophy  would  compel  an  in- 
quirer to  infer  an  original  difference  of  faculties  in 
the  races  themselves.  What  odds  betwixt  even  the 
Greeks  and  the  Romans,  the  French  and  English,  the 
Irish  and  the  Scotch !  In  America,  the  original  differ- 
ence of  faculties  in  the  African,  the  Indian,  and  the 
Caucasian  springs  intO'  the  mind  as  readily  as  the  dif- 
ference of  color  comes  up  before  the  eye.  The  obsti- 
nate and  ferocious  Indian  will  fight,  he  will  not  be  a 
slave.  He  may  be  broken,  not  bent.  The  pliant  and 
affectionate   African   seldom   fights,   and   rarely   takes 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  413 

vengeance,  and  is  easily  sent  into  slavery.  The  In- 
dian bo}'  and  girl  refuse  education  or  take  it  unkindly. 
How  many  experiments  have  been  made  in  Massachu- 
setts and  New  York !     They  all  came  to  nothing. 

Look  at  the  matter  on  a  smaller  scale.  The  indi- 
vidual inheritance  of  qualities  we  had  thought  was 
abundantly  made  out  in  the  case  of  man,  as  of  the 
humbler  animals.  The  same  historic  face  runs  in  the 
family  for  generations,  the  same  qualities  appear. 
Genius  appears  to  be  an  exception  to  this.  Writers 
on  phrenology  we  thought  had  proved  this  long  ago. 
We  can  hardW  suppose  Mr.  Buckle  ignorant  of  any 
important  work,  but  this  matter  of  inheritance  has 
been  lately  discussed  with  great  learning  by  M.  Pros- 
per Lucas.* 

We  find  national  character  as  the  result  of  three 
factors.  There  is  a  geographical  element,  an  ethno- 
logical element,  and  an  institutional  element.  Mr. 
Buckle  admits  only  two,  the  geographical  and  insti- 
tutional. If,  in  the  middle  ages,  the  Angles,  Saxons, 
Danes,  and  Norsemen  had  settled  in  France  instead 
of  England,  and  there  mixed  their  blood,  does  any  one 
think  this  Teutonic  people  would  have  now  the  same 
character  which  marks  the  Celtic  French  .f'  What  a 
difference  between  the  Spanish  and  English  settlements 
in  America!  Is  there  no  odds  in  the  blood.''  What  a 
difference  between  the  Greeks  of  the  age  of  Pericles 
and  the  mongrel  people  —  part  Greek,  but  chiefly  Ro- 
man, Celt,  and  Slav  —  who  occupy  the  same  soil  to- 
day !  Climate,  soil,  aspect  of  nature,  is  still  the  same : 
what  an  odds  in  the  men ! 

*  In  his  Traite  pMlosophique  et  physiologique  sur  V  Heredite 
Naturelle.    Paris.     1850.     2  vols.  8vo. 


414.  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

"Yet  are  thy  skies  as  blue,  thy  crags  as  wild. 

Sweet  are  thy   groves,  and  verdant  are  thy  fields; 
Thine  olive  ripe  as  when  Minerva  smiled, 

And  still  his  honeyed  wealth  Hymettus  yields; 
There  the  blithe  bee  his  fragrant  fortress  builds. 
The    free-born   wanderer  of  thy  mountain   air; 

Apollo  still  thy  long,  long  summer  gilds. 
Still  in  his   beams  Mendeli's  marbles   glare; 
Art,  Glory,  Freedom  fail,  but  Nature  still  is  fair." 

The  difference  between  the  mythology  of  India  and 
Greece,  we  think,  was  caused  more  by  the  ethnology  of 
the  people  than  the  geography  of  their  lands. 

Mr.  Buckle  assumes  that  the  Swedes  and  Spanish 
are  a  fickle  people,  inconstant  and  unstable,  and  finds 
the  cause  of  that  peculiarity  in  their  climate,  which 
renders  out-door  work  irregular.  We  have  found  no 
proof  of  national  fickleness  in  either  people. 

He  gives  a  terrible  portrait  of  the  destructive  deities 
of  the  Hindoos.  Siva  is  represented  as  a  hideous  be- 
ing, encircled  by  a  girdle  of  snakes,  with  a  human  skull 
in  his  hand,  and  wearing  a  necklace  composed  of  human 
bones.  He  has  three  eyes ;  the  ferocity  of  his  temper 
is  marked  by  his  being  clothed  in  a  tiger's  skin,  over 
his  left  shoulder  the  deadly  cobra  di  capello  raises  its 
head.  Dourga  his  wife  has  a  body  of  dark  blue,  while 
the  palms  of  her  hands  are  red  with  blood:  she  has 
four  arms,  one  holding  the  skull  of  a  giant ;  the  hands 
of  victims  are  round  her  waist ;  her  tongue  lolls  out 
from  her  mouth;  her  neck  is  adorned  with  a  ghastly 
row  of  human  heads,  which  hang  dangling  there. 
Mr.  Buckle  attributes  this  horrible  deity  to  the  effect 
of  the  aspect  of  nature,  filling  the  mind  with  terror, 
and  forcing  it  to  call  up  "  shrieks  and  shapes  and 
sights  unholy."  But,  alas !  these  Hindoo  conceptions 
of  God  are  less  hideous  than  the  Deity  set  forth  by 
our  own   Jonathan   Edwards.     No   Hindoo   could  be- 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  415 

lieve  in  eternal  damnation.  Siva  and  Dourga  would 
have  shrunk  from  the  thought  of  tormenting  new-bom 
babies  for  ever  and  ever. 

Mr.  Buckle  speaks  of  the  regularity  of  crime,  the 
certainty  of  its  annual  amount.  But  he  fails  to  notice 
some  other  important  facts  connected  with  crime. 
Such  offenses  as  theft,  violence  to  the  person,  beating 
of  women,  and  the  like,  are  confined,  almost  entirely, 
to  the  poorest  class  of  the  community.  A  more  care- 
ful inquiry  shows  that  the  criminals  of  this  class  either 
have  a  bodily  organization  which  impels  them  to  crime, 
or  else  have  been  exposed  in  early  life  to  influences  of 
education  which  incline  them  that  way ;  so  that  with 
many  crime  is  either  organized  in  them,  or  institution- 
ized  upon  them.* 

What  we  most  object  to  in  Mr.  Buckle's  transcen- 
dental history  is  his  estimate  of  the  moral  powers ;  he 
thinks  they  have  little  to  do  with  the  progress  of  man- 
kind. He  says  there  is  a  twofold  progress,  moral  and 
intellectual ;  to  be  willing  to  perform  our  duty  is  the 
moral  part,  to  know  how  to  perform  it  is  the  intellec- 
tual part ;  the  influence  which  moral  motives  or  the 
dictates  of  the  moral  instinct  have  exercised  over  the 
progress  of  civilization,  is  exceedingly  small,  while  the 
intellect  is  the  real  mover  in  man's  progress. 

Here  we  differ  widely  from  him.  It  seems  to  us 
that  a  man  must  know  his  duty,  be  willing  to  perform 
it,  and  also  know  how  to  perform  it;  and  that  there 
has  been  a  continual  progress  in  these  three  things. 
He  says,  quoting  from  Sir  James  Mackintosh,  morals 
have  hitherto  been  stationary,  and  are  likely  for  ever 

*  What  Seneca  says  of  man  in  general,  is  mainly  true  of  these 
unfortunates.  "  Fata  nos  ducunt ;  et  quantum  cuique  restet, 
prima  nascentium  hora  disposuit.  Causa  pendet  ex  causa, 
privata  ac  publica  longus  ordo  rerum  trahit." — De  Prov.j  V.  6. 


416  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

to  continue  so.  But  if  we  read  history  aright  there 
has  been  a  continually  increasing  knowledge  of  natural 
right,  a  continual  spread  of  knowledge  among  larger 
and  larger  masses  of  people ;  and  more  and  more  are 
animated  by  moral  motives,  the  desire  to  do  a  known 
right.  He  says  the  great  moral  systems  were  the  same 
three  thousand  years  ago  as  they  are  now ;  we  think 
this  statement  greatly  deceptive.  Take  an  example. 
Did  the  Hebrew  law  say,  "  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neigh- 
bor ".?  It  restricted  neighborhood  to  men  of  the  same 
country.  When  Jesus  explained  the  word  as  meaning 
whoso  needed  the  aid  a  man  could  give,  he  represented 
a  great  moral  progress  since  the  law  was  written. 
"  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself :"  these 
words  are  adequate  to  express  the  moral  feelings  of  a 
good  man  to-day,  as  well  as  when  first  uttered ;  but 
how  much  more  they  include  now  than  then !  removal 
of  the  causes  of  poverty,  drunkenness,  crime;  protec- 
tion to  the  deaf  and  dumb,  the  blind,  the  crazy,  and 
the  fool.  There  has  been  no  change  in  the  multi- 
plication-table since  the  days  of  Pythagoras,  there  will 
be  no  change  of  it ;  but  the  knowledge  of  it  has  been 
spread  among  many  millions,  that  knowledge  has  been 
applied  to  many  things  he  never  thought  of,  and  there 
has  been  a  great  development  of  the  mathematical 
faculty  in  mankind. 

Mr.  Buckle  says  the  influence  of  a  man  of  great 
morality  is  short  in  time,  and  not  extensive  in  space. 
In  both  statements  he  is  mistaken.  For  the  good  man 
directly  incites  others  to  imitate  and  surpass  his  ex- 
cellence; the  tradition  of  it  remains  long  after  he  is 
dead,  and  spreads  over  all  the  civilized  world.  Be- 
sides, the  moral  idea  becomes  an  institution  or  a  law, 
and  then  is  a  continual  force  in  the  new  civilization 


BUCKLE'S  CIVILIZATION  417 

itself.  A  moral  feeling  can  be  organized,  as  well  as 
an  intellectual  idea.  The  law  forbidding  murder, 
theft,  the  slave-trade,  piracy,  and  a  thousand  other 
offenses,  was  a  moral  feeling  once.  So  a  hospital,  an 
almshouse,  a  school,  a  college,  was  once  only  the  "  dic- 
tate of  the  moral  instinct."  He  says,  "  The  deeper 
we  penetrate  into  the  question,  the  more  clearly  shall 
we  see  the  superiority  of  intellectual  acquisitions  over 
moral  feeling."  He  should  invert  the  sentence.  He 
says  the  Spanish  Inquisitors  were  highly  moral  men, 
no  hypocrites,  but  remarkable  for  an  undeviating  and 
incorruptible  integrity ;  with  conscientious  energy 
"  they  fulfilled  their  duty."  Now  it  is  quite  clear  that 
the  leaders  of  the  Spanish  church  were  men  of  large 
intellect,  carefully  cultivated,  learned,  adroit,  familiar 
with  the  world.  But  we  should  say  they  were  men 
of  very  little  morality.  The  conscience,  the  power  to 
discern  right,  was  so  little  developed,  that,  if  they 
were  learned,  they  did  not  know  it  was  wrong  to  tear 
a  girl  to  pieces  on  the  rack,  because  she  could  not  be- 
lieve that  the  Pope  was  infallible.  We  should  not  say 
a  man's  mind  was  well  developed  who  did  not  know 
that  one  and  one  make  two;  should  we  say  a  man's 
conscience  is  well  developed  who  does  not  know  it  is 
wrong  thus  to  torture  a  girl.'' 

He  says,  "  The  stock  of  American  knowledge  is 
small,  but  it  is  spread  through  all  classes."  If  by 
knowledge  he  means  "  an  acquaintance  with  physical 
and  mental  laws,"  it  is  not  true  that  the  amount  is 
small  in  comparison  with  other  countries,  though  ac- 
quaintance with  literature  is  certainly  quite  rare. 
But  when  he  says  "  little  attention  has  been  paid  to 
physical  science,"  we  think  him  much  mistaken.     He 

thinks    philosophical    inquiries    are    "  almost    entirely 
11—27 


418  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

neglected."  It  is  not  quite  true.  If  no  great  meta- 
physician has  appeared  since  Jonathan  Edwards,  as 
he  truly  says,  how  many  has  England  produced  since 
Berkeley.''  Dr.  Hickok's  "  Rational  Psychology  "  is  a 
more  profound  book  than  that  of  Jonathan  Edwards."^ 
Three  things  go  to  make  a  great  metaphysician ;  power 
of  psychological  analysis ;  intuitive  power  to  perceive 
great  truths,  either  by  a  synthetic  judgment  a  'priori 
or  by  a  comprehensive  induction  from  facts  of  con- 
sciousness or  observation,  power  of  deductive  logic. 
Jonathan  Edwards  was  great  only  in  the  last,  and 
least  of  all.  America  is  more  devoted  to  practical 
affairs,  and  certainly  has  done  little  in  metaphysics. 
But  from  the  death  of  Newton,  in  1727,  till  the  end 
of  that  century,  how  little  England  did  in  mathe- 
matics !  We  wish  it  were  true  that  knowledge  is  so 
widely  diffused  as  he  says.  But,  alas !  there  are  four 
million  slaves  who  know  nothing,  and  as  many  "  poor 
whites  "  who  know  little.  We  shall  not  pursue  these 
criticisms. 

"  Ubi  plura  nitent  in  carmine,  non  ego  paucis 
Offendar   maculis,   quas    aut   incuria    fudit, 
Aut  humana  parum   cavit  natura." 

Mr.  Buckle  has  given  us  one  of  the  most  important 
contributions  which  any  Englishman  has  yet  made  to 
the  philosophy  of  human  history.  We  wish  we  had 
adequate  space  to  point  out  its  excellences  in  detail; 
but  the  analysis  and  the  extracts  we  have  given  must 
suffice  for  the  present.  We  congratulate  the  author 
on  his  success.  We  are  sure  the  thoughtful  world 
will  give  him  a  thoughtful  welcome,  and  if  his  fu- 
ture volumes,  which  we  anxiously  look  for,  shall  equal 
this,  he  is  sure  of  a  high  place  in  the  estimation  of 
mankind. 


IX 
HENRY  WARD  BEECHER 

There  are  more  than  thirty  thousand  preachers  in 
the  United  States,  whereof  twenty  eight  thousand  are 
Protestants,  the  rest  CathoHcs, —  one  minister  to  a 
thousand  men.  They  make  an  exceeding  great  army, 
—  mostly  serious,  often  self-denying  and  earnest. 
Nay,  sometimes  you  find  them  men  of  large  talent, 
perhaps  even  of  genius.  No  thirty  thousand  farm- 
ers, mechanics,  lawyers,  doctors,  or  traders  have  so 
much  of  that  book-learning  which  is  popularly  called 
"  Education." 

No  class  has  such  opportunities  for  influence,  such 
means  of  power ;  even  now  the  press  ranks  second  to 
the  pulpit.  Some  of  the  old  traditional  respect  for 
the  theocratic  class  continues  in  service,  and  waits 
upon  the  ministers.  It  has  come  down  from  Celtic 
and  Teutonic  fathers,  hundreds  of  years  behind  us, 
who  transferred  to  a  Roman  priesthood  the  allegiance 
paid  to  the  serv^ants  of  a  deity  quite  different  from 
the  Catholics.  The  Puritans  founded  an  ecclesiastical 
oligarchy  which  is  by  no  means  ended  yet ;  with  the 
most  obstinate  "  liberty  of  prophesying "  there  was 
mixed  a  certain  respect  for  such  as  only  wore  the 
prophet's  mantle ;  nor  is  it  wholly  gone. 

What  personal  means  of  controlling  the  public  the 
minister  has  at  his  command !  Of  their  own  accord 
men  "  assemble  and  meet  together,"  and  look  up  to 
him.  In  the  country  the  town-roads  center  at  the 
meeting-house,  which  is  also  the  terminus  a  quo,  the 

419 


420  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

golden  mile-stone,  whence  distances  are  measured  off. 
Once  a  week  the  wheels  of  business,  and  even  of  pleas- 
ure, drop  into  the  old  customary  ruts,  and  turn 
thither.  Sunday  morning  all  the  land  is  still.  La- 
bor puts  off  his  iron  apron  and  arra^'^s  him  in  clean  hu- 
man clothes, —  a  symbol  of  universal  humanity,  not 
merely  of  special  toil.  Trade  closes  the  shop;  his 
business-pen,  well  wiped,  is  laid  up  for  to-morrow's 
use ;  the  account-book  is  shut, —  men  thinking  of  their 
trespasses  as  well  as  their  debts.  For  six  days,  aye, 
and  so  many  nights,  Broadway  roars  with  the  great 
stream  which  sets  this  way  and  that,  as  wind  and  tide 
press  up  and  down.  How  noisy  is  this  great  chan- 
nel of  business,  wherein  humanity  rolls  to  and  fro, 
now  running  into  shops,  now  sucked  down  into  cellars, 
then  dashed  high  up  the  tall,  steep  banks,  to  come 
down  again  a  continuous  drip  and  be  lost  in  the  gen- 
eral flood !  What  a  fringe  of  foam  colors  the  margin 
on  either  side,  and  what  gay  bubbles  float  therein,  with 
more  varied  gorgeousness  than  the  Queen  of  Sheba 
dreamed  of  putting  on  when  she  courted  the  eye  of 
Hebrew  Solomon !  Sunday  this  noise  is  still.  Broad- 
way is  a  quiet  stream,  looking  sober  or  even  dull ;  its 
voice  is  but  a  gentle  murmur  of  many  waters  calmly 
flowing  where  the  ecclesiastical  gates  are  open  to  let 
them  in.  The  channel  of  business  has  shrunk  to  a 
little  church-canal.  Even  in  this  great  Babel  of  com- 
merce one  day  in  seven  is  given  up  to  the  minister. 
The  world  may  have  the  other  six,  this  is  for  the 
church ; —  for  so  have  Abram  and  Lot  divided  the  field 
of  time,  that  there  be  no  strife  between  the  rival 
herdsmen  of  the  church  and  the  world.  Sunday  morn- 
ing time  rings  the  bell.  At  the  familiar  sound,  by 
long  habit  born  in  them,  and  older  than  memory,  men 


BEECHER  421 

assemble  at  the  meeting-house,  nestle  themselves  de- 
voutly in  their  snug  pews,  and  button  themselves  in 
with  wonted  care.  There  is  the  shepherd,  and  here 
is  the  flock,  fenced  off  into  so  many  little  private  pens. 
With  dumb,  yet  eloquent  patience,  they  look  up  list- 
less, perhaps  longing,  for  such  fodder  as  he  may 
pull  out  from  his  spiritual  mow  and  shake  down  be- 
fore them.     \^niat  he  gives  they  gather. 

Other  speakers  must  have  some  magnetism  of  per- 
sonal power  or  public  reputation  to  attract  men,  but 
the  minister  can  dispense  with  that ;  to  him  men  an- 
swer before  he  calls,  and  even  when  they  are  not  sent 
by  others  are  drawn  by  him.  Twice  a  week,  nay, 
three  times,  if  he  will,  do  they  lend  him  their  ears 
to  be  filled  with  his  words.  No  man  of  science  or 
letters  has  such  access  to  men.  Besides,  he  is  to  speak 
on  the  grandest  of  all  themes, —  of  man,  of  God,  of 
religion,  man's  deepest  desires,  his  loftiest  aspirings. 
Before  him  the  rich  and  the  poor  meet  together,  con- 
scious of  the  one  God,  Master  of  them  all,  who  is  no 
respecter  of  persons.  To  the  minister  the  children 
look  up,  and  their  pliant  faces  are  moulded  by  his 
plastic  hand.  The  young  men  and  maidens  are  there, 
■ —  such  possibility  of  life  and  character  before  them, 
such  hope  is  there,  such  faith  in  man  and  God,  as 
comes  instinctively  to  those  who  have  youth  on  their 
side. 

There  are  the  old:  men  and  women  with  white 
crowns  on  their  heads ;  faces  which  warn  and  scare 
with  the  ice  and  storm  of  eighty  winters,  or  guide  and 
charm  with  the  beauty  of  fore-score  summers, —  rich  in 
promise  once,  in  harvest  now.  Very  beautiful  is  the 
presence  of  old  men,  and  of  that  venerable  sisterhood 
whose  experienced  temples  are  turbaned  with  the  rai- 


422  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ment  of  such  as  have  come  out  of  much  tribulation, 
and  now  shine  as  white  stars  foretelHng  an  eternal 
day.  Young  men  all  around,  a  young  man  in  the 
pulpit,  the  old  men's  look  of  experienced  life  says 
"  Amen  "  to  the  best  word,  and  their  countenance  is  a 
benediction. 

The  minister  is  not  expected  to  appeal  to  the  self- 
ish motives  which  are  addressed  by  the  market,  the 
forum,  or  the  bar,  but  to  the  eternal  principle  of 
right.  He  must  not  be  guided  by  the  statutes  of 
men,  changeable  as  the  clouds,  but  must  fix  his  eye 
on  the  bright  particular  star  of  justice,  the  same 
yesterday,  to-day,  and  forever.  To  him  office,  money, 
social  rank  and  fame  are  but  toys  or  counters  which 
the  game  of  life  is  played  withal ;  while  wisdom,  in- 
tegrity, benevolence,  piety  are  the  prizes  the  game  is 
for.  He  digs  through  the  dazzling  sand,  and  bids 
men  build  on  the  rock  of  ages. 

Surely,  no  men  have  such  opportunity  of  speech 
and  power  as  these  thirty  thousand  ministers.  What 
have  they  to  show  for  it  all.''  The  hunter,  fisher, 
woodman,  miner,  farmer,  mechanic,  has  each  his  spe- 
cial wealth.  What  have  this  multitude  of  ministers  to 
show.'' — how  much  knowledge  given,  what  wise  guid- 
ance, what  inspiration  of  humanity?  Let  the  best 
men  answer. 

This  ministerial  army  may  be  separated  into  three 
divisions.  First,  the  church  militant,  the  fighting 
church,  as  the  ecclesiastical  dictionaries  define  it. 
Reverend  men  serve  devoutly  in  its  ranks.  Their 
work  is  negative,  oppositional.  Under  various  ban- 
ners, with  diverse  and  discordant  war-cries,  trumpets 
braj^ing  a  certain  or  uncertain  sound,  and  weapons 
of  strange  pattern,  though  made  of  trusty  steel,  they 


BEECHER  423 

do  battle  against  the  enemy.  What  shots  from  an- 
tique pistols,  matchlocks,  from  crossbows  and  cat- 
apults, are  let  fly  at  the  foe !  Now  the  champion  at- 
tacks "New  Views,"  "  Ultraism,"  "Neology,"  "In- 
novation," "  Discontent,"  "  Carnal  Reason  " ;  then  he 
lays  lance  in  rest,  and  rides  valiantly  upon  "  Uni- 
tarianism,"  "Popery,"  "Infidelity,"  "Atheism," 
Deism,"  "  Spiritualism  " ;  and  though  one  by  one  he 
runs  them  through,  yet  he  never  quite  slays  the  evil 
one ; —  the  severed  limbs  unite  again,  and  a  new  mon- 
ster takes  the  old  one's  place.  It  is  serious  men  who 
make  up  the  church  militant, —  grim,  earnest,  valiant. 
If  mustered  in  the  ninth  century,  there  had  been  no 
better  soldiers  nor  elder. 

Next  is  the  church  termagant.  They  are  the  scolds 
of  the  church-hold,  terrible  from  the  beginning  hith- 
erto. Their  work  is  denouncing ;  they  have  always 
a  burden  against  something.  Obsta  decisis  is  their 
motto, — "  Hate  all  that  is  agreed  upon."  When  the 
"  contrary-minded "  are  called  for,  the  church  ter- 
magant holds  up  its  hand.  A  turbulent  people,  and 
a  troublesome,  are  these  sons  of  thunder, —  a  brother- 
hood of  universal  come-outers.  Their  only  concord 
is  disagreement.  It  is  not  often,  perhaps,  that  they 
have  better  thoughts  than  the  rest  of  men,  but  a 
superior  aptitude  to  find  fault ;  their  growling  proves, 
"  not  that  themselves  are  wise,  but  others  weak."  So 
their  pulpit  is  a  brawling-tub,  "  full  of  sound  and 
fury,  signifying  nothing."  They  have  a  deal  of 
thunder,  and  much  lightning,  but  no  light,  nor  any 
continuous  warmth,  only  spasms  of  heat.  Odi  pre- 
sentem  laudare  absentem, —  the  Latin  tells  their  story. 
They  come  down  and  trouble  every  Bethesda  in  the 
world,  but  heal  none  of  the  impotent  folk.     To  them, 


4im  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

"Of  old  things,  all  are  over  old, 
Of    new    things,    none    is    new    enough." 

They  have  a  rage  for  fault-finding,  and  betake  them- 
selves to  the  pulpit  as  others  are  sent  to  Bedlam. 
Men  of  all  denominations  are  here,  and  it  is  a  deal 
of  mischief  they  do, —  the  worst,  indirectly,  by  mak- 
ing a  sober  man  distrust  the  religious  faculty  they 
appeal  to,  and  set  his  face  against  all  mending  of 
anything,  no  matter  how  badly  it  is  broken.  These 
Theudases,  boasting  themselves  to  be  somebody,  and 
leading  men  off  to  perish  in  the  wilderness,  frighten 
every  sober  man  from  all  thought  of  moving  out  of 
his  bad  neighborhood  or  seeking  to  make  it  better. 
But  this  is  a  small  portion  of  the  ecclesiastic  host. 
Let  us  be  tolerant  to  their  noise  and  bigotry. 

Last  of  all  is  the  church  beneficent  or  constructant. 
Their  work  is  positive, —  critical  of  the  old,  creative 
also  of  the  new.  They  take  hold  of  the  strongest  of 
all  human  faculties, —  the  religious, —  and  use  this 
great  river  of  God,  always  full  of  water,  to  moisten 
hill-side  and  meadow,  to  turn  lonely  saw-mills,  and 
drive  the  wheels  in  great  factories,  which  make  a 
metropolis  of  manufactures, —  to  bear  alike  the  lum- 
berman's logs  and  the  trader's  ships  to  their  appointed 
place ;  the  stream  feeding  many  a  little  forget-me-not, 
as  it  passes  by.  Men  of  all  denominations  belong  to 
this  church  catholic ;  yet  all  are  of  one  persuasion^ 
the  brotherhood  of  humanity, —  for  the  one  spirit  loves 
manifoldness  of  form.  They  trouble  themselves  little 
about  sin,  the  universal  but  invisible  enemy  whom  the 
church  termagant  attempts  to  shell  and  dislodge ;  but 
are  very  busy  in  attacking  sins.  These  ministers  of 
religion  would  rout  drunkenness  and  want,  ignorance, 
idleness,  lust,  covetousness,  vanity,  hate,  and  pride, — 


BEECHER  425 

vices  of  instinctive  passion  or  reflective  ambition.  Yet 
the  work  of  these  men  is  to  build  up ;  they  cut  down 
the  forest  and  scare  off  the  wild  beasts  only  to  re- 
place them  with  civil  crops, —  cattle,  corn,  and  men. 
Instead  of  the  howling  wilderness,  they  would  have 
the  village  or  the  city,  full  of  comfort  and  wealth 
and  musical  with  knowledge  and  with  love.  How 
often  are  they  misunderstood !  Some  savage  hears  the 
ring  of  the  axe,  the  crash  of  falling  timber,  or  the 
rifle's  crack  and  the  drop  of  wolf  or  bear,  and  cries 
out,  "  A  destructive  and  dangerous  man ;  he  has  no 
reverence  for  the  ancient  wilderness,  but  would  abolish 
it  and  its  inhabitants ;  away  with  him !  "  But  look 
again  at  this  destroyer,  and  in  place  of  the  desert 
woods,  lurked  in  by  a  few  wild  beasts  and  wilder  men, 
behold,  a  whole  New  England  of  civilization  has  come 
up !  The  minister  of  this  Church  of  the  Good  Sa- 
maritans delivers  the  poor  that  cry,  and  the  father- 
less, and  him  that  hath  none  to  help  him ;  he  makes 
the  widow's  heart  sing  for  joy,  and  the  blessing  of 
such  as  are  ready  to  perish  comes  on  him ;  he  is  eyes 
to  the  blind,  feet  to  the  lame;  the  cause  of  evil  which 
he  knows  not  he  searches  out;  breaking  the  jaws  of 
the  wicked  to  pluck  one  spirit  out  of  their  teeth. 
In  a  world  of  work,  he  would  have  no  idler  in  the 
market-place;  in  a  world  of  bread,  he  would  not  eat 
his  morsel  alone  while  the  fatherless  has  nought ;  nor 
would  he  see  any  perish  for  want  of  clothing.  He 
knows  the  wise  God  made  man  for  a  good  end,  and 
provided  adequate  means  thereto ;  so  he  looks  for  them 
where  they  were  placed,  in  the  world  of  matter  and  of 
men,  not  outside  of  either.  So  while  he  entertains 
every  old  truth,  he  looks  out  also  into  the  crowd  of  new 
opinions,  hoping  to  find  others  of  their  kin ;  and  the 


426  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

new  thought  does  not  lodge  in  the  street;  he  opens  his 
doors  to  the  traveler,  not  forgetful  to  entertain  stran- 
gers,—  knowing  that  some  have  also  thereby  enter- 
tained angels  unawares.  He  does  not  fear  the  great 
multitude,  nor  does  the  contempt  of  a  few  families 
make  him  afraid. 

This  church  constructant  has  a  long  apostolical  suc- 
cession of  great  men,  and  many  nations  are  gathered 
in  its  fold.  And  what  a  variety  of  beliefs  it  has ! 
But  while  each  man  on  his  private  account  says,  credo, 
and  believes  as  he  must  and  shall,  and  writes  or  speaks 
his  opinions  in  what  speech  he  likes  best, —  they  all, 
with  one  accordant  mouth,  say  likewise,  faciamus,  and 
betake  them  to  the  one  great  work  of  developing 
man's  possibility  of  knowledge  and  virtue. 

Mr.  Beecher  belongs  to  this  church  constructant. 
He  is  one  of  its  eminent  members,  its  most  popular 
and  effective  preacher.  No  minister  in  the  United 
States  is  so  well  known,  none  so  widely  beloved.  He 
is  as  well  known  in  Ottawa  as  in  Broadway.  He  has 
the  largest  Protestant  congregation  in  America,  and 
an  ungathered  parish  which  no  man  attempts  to  num- 
ber. He  has  church  members  in  Maine,  Wisconsin, 
Georgia,  Texas,  California,  and  all  the  way  between. 
Men  look  on  him  as  a  national  institution,  a  part  of 
the  public  property.  Not  a  Sunday  in  the  year  but 
representative  men  from  every  state  in  the  Union  fix 
their  eyes  on  him,  are  instructed  by  his  sermons  and 
uplifted  by  his  prayers.  He  is  the  most  popular  of 
American  lecturers.  In  the  celestial  sphere  of  theo- 
logical journals,  his  papers  are  the  bright  particular 
star  in  that  constellation  called  the  "  Independent  " ; 
men  look  up  to  and  bless  the  useful  light,  and  learn 
therefrom  the  signs  of  the  times.     He  is  one  of  the 


BEECHER  427 

bulwarks  of  freedom  in  Kansas,  a  detached  fort.  He 
was  a  great  force  in .  the  last  Presidential  campaign, 
and  several  stump-speakers  were  specially  detailed  to 
overtake  and  offset  him.^  But  the  one  man  surrounded 
the  m.any.  Scarcely  is  there  a  Northern  minister  so 
bitterly  hated  at  the  South.  The  slave-traders,  the 
border-ruffians,  the  purchased  officials  know  no  higher 
law ;  "  nor  Hale  nor  devil  can  make  them  afraid  " ;  ^ 
yet  they  fear  the  terrible  whip  of  Henry  Ward 
Beecher. 

The  time  has  not  come  —  may  it  long  be  far  dis- 
tant !  —  to  anal^^ze  his  talents  and  count  up  his  merits 
and  defects.  But  there  are  certain  obvious  excel- 
lences which  account  for  his  success  and  for  the  honor 
paid  him. 

Mr.  Beecher  has  great  strength  of  instinct,  of  spon- 
taneous human  feeling.  Many  men  lose  this  in  "  get- 
ting an  education  " ;  they  have  tanks  of  rain-water, 
barrels  of  well-water ;  but  on  their  premises  is  no 
spring,  and  it  never  rains  there.  A  mountain-spring 
supplies  Mr.  Beecher  with  fresh,  living  water. 

He  has  great  love  for  nature,  and  sees  the  sym- 
bolical value  of  material  beauty  and  its  effect  on  man. 

He  has  great  fellow-feeling  with  the  joys  and  sor- 
rows of  men.  Hence  he  is  always  on  the  side  of  the 
suffering,  and  especially  of  the  oppressed ;  all  his  ser- 
mons and  lectures  indicate  this.  It  endears  him  to 
millions,  and  also  draws  upon  him  the  hatred  and 
loathing  of  a  few  Pharisees,  some  of  them  members  of 
his  own  sect.     Listen  to  this : — 

"  Looked  at  without  educated  associations,  there  is  no  differ- 
ence between  a  man  in  bed  and  a  man  in  a  cofl&n.  And  yet 
such  is  the  power  of  the  heart  to  redeem  the  animal  life  that 
there  is  nothing  more  exquisitely  refined  and  pure  and  beauti- 
iful  than  the  chamber  of  the  house.     The  couch!     From  the  day 


428  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

that  the  bride  sanctifies  it,  to  the  day  when  the  aged  mother 
is  borne  from  it,  it  stands  clothed  with  loveliness  and  dignity. 
Cursed  be  the  tongue  that  dares  speak  evil  of  the  household 
bed!  By  its  side  oscillates  the  cradle.  Not  far  from  it  is  the 
crib.  In  this  sacred  precinct,  the  mother's  chamber,  lies  the 
heart  of  the  family.  Here  the  child  learns  its  prayer.  Hither, 
night  by  night,  angels  troop.     It  is  the  Holy  of  Holies." 

How  well  he  understands  the  ministry  of  grief 

"  A  Christian  man's  life  is  laid  in  the  loom  of  time  to  a 
pattern  which  he  does  not  see,  but  God  does;  and  his  heart  is 
a  shuttle.  On  one  side  of  the  loom  is  sorrow,  and  on  the  other 
is  joy;  and  the  shuttle,  struck  alternately  by  each,  flies  back 
and  forth,  carrying  the  thread,  which  is  white  or  black,  as  the 
pattern  needs;  and  in  the  end,  when  God  shall  lift  up  the 
finished  garment,  and  all  its  changing  hues  shaU  glance  out,  it 
will  then  appear  that  the  deep  and  dark  colors  were  as  needful 
to  beauty  as  the  bright  and  high  colors." 

He  loves  children,  and  the  boy  still  fresh  in  his 
manhood. 

"When  your  own  child  comes  in  from  the  street,  and  has 
learned  to  swear  from  the  bad  boys  congregated  there,  it  is 
a  very  difi^erent  thing  to  you  from  what  it  was  when  you 
heard  the  profanity  of  those  boys  as  you  passed  them.  Now 
it  takes  hold  of  you,  and  makes  you  feel  that  you  are  a  stock- 
holder in  the  public  morality.  Children  make  men  better  citi- 
zens. Of  what  use  would  an  engine  be  to  a  ship,  if  it  were 
lying  loose  in  the  hull?  It  must  be  fastened  to  it  with  bolts 
and  screws  before  it  can  propel  the  vessel.  No\.  a  childless 
man  is  just  like  a  loose  engine.  A  man  must  be  bolted  and 
screwed  to  the  community  before  he  can  begin  to  work  for  its 
advancement;  and  there  are  no  such  screws  and  bolts  as  chil- 
dren." 

He  has  a  most  Christ-like  contempt  for  the  hypo- 
crite, whom  he  scourges  with  heavy  evangelical  whips, 
■ —  but  the  tenderest  Christian  love  for  earnest  men 
struggling  after  nobleness.     Read  this : — 

"  I  think  the  wickedest  people  on  earth  are  those  who  use  a 
force  of  genius  to  make  themselves  selfish  in  the  noblest  things, 
keeping  themselves  aloof  from  the  vulgar  and  the  ignorant  and 


BEECHER  429 

the  unknown;  rising  higher  and  higher  in  taste  till  they  sit, 
ice  upon  ice,  on  the  mountain-top  of  eternal  congelation." 

"Men  are  afraid  of  slight  outward  acts  which  will  injure 
them  in  the  eyes  of  others,  while  they  are  heedless  of  the  damna- 
tion which  throbs  in  their  souls  in  hatreds  and  jealousies  and 
revenges." 

"Many  people  use  their  refinements  as  a  spider  uses  his 
web,  to  catch  the  weak  upon  that  they  may  be  mercilessly  de- 
voured. Christian  men  should  use  refinement  on  this"  principle; 
the  more  I  have,  the  more  I  owe  to  those  who  are  less  than  I." 

He  values  the  substance  of  man  more  than  his  acci- 
dents. 

f  "We  say  a  man  is  'made.'  What  do  we  mean?  That  he 
has  got  the  control  of  his  lower  instincts,  so  that  they  are 
only  fuel  to  his  higher  feelings,  giving  force  to  his  nature? 
That  his  affections  are  like  vines,  sending  out  on  all  sides  blos- 
soms and  clustering  fruits?  That  his  tastes  are  so  cultivated, 
that  all  beautiful  things  speak  to  him,  and  bring  him  their 
delights?  That  his  understanding  is  opened,  so  that  he  walks 
through  every  hall  of  knowledge  and  gathers  its  treasures? 
That  his  moral  feelings  are  so  developed  and  quickened  that 
he  holds  sweet  commerce  with  Heaven?  Oh,  no!  —  none  of 
these  things !  He  is  cold  and  dead  in  heart  and  mind  and  soul. 
Only  his  passions  are  alive;  but  —  he  is  worth  five  hundred 
thousand  dollars ! 

"  And  we  say  a  man  is  '  ruined.'  Are  his  wife  and  children 
dead  ?  Oh,  no !  Have  they  had  a  quarrel,  and  are  they  sepa- 
rated from  him?  Oh,  no!  Has  he  lost  his  reputation  through 
crime?  No.  Is  his  reason  gone?  Oh,  no!  it's  as  sound  as  ever. 
Is  he  struck  through  with  disease?  No.  He  has  lost  his  prop- 
erty, and  he  is  ruined.  The  man  ruined?  When  shall  we  learn 
that  '  a  man's  life  consisteth  not  in  the  abundance  of  the  things 
be  possesseth '  "  ? 

Mr.  Beecher's  God  has  the  gentle  and  philanthropic 
qualities  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  with  omnipotence 
added.  Religious  emotion  comes  out  in  his  prayers, 
sermons,  and  lectures,  as  the  vegetative  power  of  the 
earth  in  the  manifold  plants  and  flowers  of  spring. 

"  The  sun  does  not  shine  for  a  few  trees  and  flowers,  but 
for  the  wide  world's  joy.  The  lonely  pine  on  the  mountain- 
top  waves  its  sombre  boughs,  and  cries,   '  Thou   art  my  sun ! ' 


430  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

And  the  little  meadow-\aolet  lifts  its  cup  of  blue,  and  whispers 
with  its  perfumed  breath,  '  Thou  art  my  sun ! '  And  the  grain 
in  a  thousand  fields  rustles  in  the  wind,  and  makes  answer, 
'  Thou  art  my  sun  !  ' 

"  So  God  sits  eifulgent  in  heaven,  not  for  a  favored  few,  but 
for  the  universe  of  life;  and  there  is  no  creature  so  poor  or 
so  low  that  he  may  not  look  up  with  childlike  confidence  and 
say,  '  My  Father !  thou  art  mine ! '  " 

"  When  once  the  filial  feeling  is  breathed  into  the  heart  the 
soul  cannot  be  terrified  by  augustness,  or  justice,  or  any  form 
of  Divine  grandeur;  for  then,  to  such  a  one,  aU  the  attributes 
of  God  are  but  so  many  arms  stretched  abroad  through  the 
universe,  to  gather  and  to  press  to  his  bosom  those  whom  he 
loves.  The  greater  he  is,  the  gladder  are  we,  so  that  he  be  our 
Father   still. 

"  But,  if  one  consciously  turns  away  from  God,  or  fears 
him,  the  nobler  and  grander  the  representation  be,  the  more 
terrible  is  his  conception  of  the  Divine  Adversary  that  frowns 
upon  him.  The  God  whom  love  beholds  rises  upon  the  horizon 
like  mountains  which  carry  summer  up  their  sides  to  the  very 
top;  but  that  sternly  just  God  whom  sinners  fear  stands  cold 
against  the  sky,  like  Mont  Blanc;  and  from  his  icy  sides  the 
soul,  quickly  sliding,  plunges  headlong  down  to  unrecalled  de- 
struction." 

He  has  hard  words  for  such  as  get  only  the  form 
of  rehgion,  or  but  Httle  of  its  substance. 

"  There  are  some  Christians  whose  secular  life  is  an  arid, 
worldly  strife,  and  whose  religion  is  but  a  turbid  sentimental- 
ism.  Their  life  runs  along  that  line  where  the  overflow  of  the 
Nile  meets  the  desert.  It  is  the  boundary  line  between  sand 
and  mud." 

"  That  gospel  which  sanctions  ignorance  and  oppression  for 
three  millions  of  men,  what  fruit  or  flower  has  it  to  shake 
down  for  the  healing  of  the  nations?  It  is  cursed  in  its  own 
roots,  and  blasted  in  its  own  boughs." 

"  Many  of  our  churches  defy  Protestantism.  Grand  cathe- 
drals are  they,  which  make  us  shiver  as  we  enter  them.  The 
windows  are  so  constructed  as  to  exclude  the  light  and  inspire 
a  religious  awe.  The  walls  are  of  stone,  which  makes  us 
think  of  our  last  home.  The  ceilings  are  sombre,  and  the  pews 
coffin-colored.  Then  the  services  are  composed  to  these  cir- 
cumstances, and  hushed  music  goes  trembling  along  the  aisles, 
and  men  move  softly,  and  would  on  no  account  put  on  their 
hats  before  they  reach  the  door;  but  when  they  do,  they  take 


BEECHER  431 

a  long  breath,  and  have  such  a  sense  of  relief  to  be  in  the  free 
air,  and  comfort  themselves  with  the  thought  that  they've  been 
good  Christians ! 

"  Now  this  idea  of  worship  is  narrow  and  false.  The  house 
of  God  should  be  a  joyous  place  for  the  right  use  of  all  our 
faculties." 

"  There  ought  to  be  such  an  atmosphere  in  every  Christian 
church  that  a  man  going  there  and  sitting  two  hours  should 
take  the  contagion  of  heaven,  and  carry  home  a  fire  to  kindle 
the   altar   whence  he  came." 

"  The  call  to  religion  is  not  a  call  to  be  better  than  your 
fellows,  but  to  be  better  than  yourself.  Religion  is  relative 
to  the  individual." 

"  My  best  presentations  of  the  gospel  to  you  are  so  incom- 
plete! Sometimes,  when  I  am  alone,  I  have  such  sweet  and 
rapturous  visions  of  the  love  of  God  and  the  truths  of  his 
word,  that  I  think,  if  I  could  speak  to  you  then,  I  should  move 
your  hearts.  I  am  like  a  child  who,  walking  forth  some  sunny 
summer's  morning,  sees  grass  and  flower  all  shining  with  drops 
of  dew.  '  Oh,'  he  cries,  '  I'll  carry  these  beautiful  things  to 
my  mother ! '  And  eagerly  plucking  them,  the  dew  drops  into 
his  little  palm,  and  all  the  charm  is  gone.  There  is  but  grass 
in  his  hand,  and  no  longer  pearls." 

"  There  are  many  professing  Christians  who  are  secretly 
vexed  on  account  of  the  charity  they  have  to  bestow  and  the 
self-denial  they  have  to  use.  If,  instead  of  the  smooth  prayers 
which  they  do  pray,  they  should  speak  out  the  things  which 
they  really  feel,  they  would  say,  when  they  go  home  at  night, 
'  O  Lord,  I  met  a  poor  curmudgeon  of  yours  to-day,  a  mis- 
erable, unwashed  brat,  and  I  gave  him  sixpence,  and  I  have 
been  sorry  for  it  ever  since';  or,  'O  Lord,  if  I  had  not  signed 
those  articles  of  faith,  I  might  have  gone  to  the  theatre  this 
evening.  Your  religion  deprives  me  of  a  great  deal  of  enjoy- 
ment, but  I  mean  to  stick  to  it.  There's  no  other  way  of  get- 
ting into  heaven,  I  suppose.' 

"  The  sooner  such  men  are  out  of  the  church,  the  better." 

"The  youth-time  of  churches  produces  enterprise;  their  age, 
indolence;  but  even  this  might  be  borne  did  not  these  dead 
men  sit  in  the  door  of  their  sepulchres,  crying  out  against  every 
living  man  who  refuses  to  wear  the  livery  of  death.  In  India, 
when  the  husband  dies,  they  burn  his  widow  with  him.  I  am 
almost  tempted  to  think,  that  if  with  the  end  of  every  pas- 
torate, the  church  itself  were  disbanded  and  destroyed,  to  be 
gathered  again  by  the  succeeding  teacher,  we  should  thus  se- 
cure an  immortality  of  youth." 

"  A  religious  life  is  not  a  thing  which  spends  itself.     It  is 


432  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

like  a  river  which  widens  continually,  and  is  never  so  broad  or 
so  deep  as  at  its  mouth,  where  it  rolls  into  the  ocean  of 
eternity." 

"  God  made  the  world  to  relieve  an  over-full  creative  thought, 
—  as  musicians  sing,  as  we  talk,  as  artists  sketch,  when  full  of 
suggestions.  What  profusion  is  thei'e  in  his  work!  When 
trees  blossom,  there  is  not  a  single  breastpin,  but  a  whole 
bosom  full  of  gems;  and  of  leaves  they  have  so  many  suits 
that  they  can  throw  them  away  to  the  winds  all  summer  long. 
What  unnumbered  cathedrals  has  he  reared  in  the  forest  shades, 
vast  and  grand,  full  of  curious  carvings,  and  haunted  evermore 
by  tremulous  music !  and  in  the  heavens  above,  how  do  stars 
seem  to  have  flown  out  of  his  hand  faster  than  sparks  out  of  a 
mighty  forge !  " 

"  Oh,  let  the  soul  alone !  Let  it  go  to  God  as  best  it  may ! 
It  is  entangled  enough.  It  is  hard  enough  for  it  to  rise  above 
the  distractions  which  environ  it.  Let  a  man  teach  the  rain 
how  to  fall,  the  clouds  how  to  shape  themselves  and  move 
their  airy  rounds,  the  seasons  how  to  cherish  and  garner  the 
universal  abundance;  but  let  him  not  teach  a  soul  to  pray,  on 
whom  the  Holy  Ghost  doth  brood ! " 
I 
He  recognizes   the  difference  between  religion  and 

theology. 

"  How  sad  is  that  field  from  which  battle  hath  just  departed! 
By  as  much  as  the  valley  was  exquisite  in  its  loveliness  is  it 
now  sublimely  sad  in  its  desolation.  Such  to  me  is  the  Bible 
when  a  fighting  theologian  has  gone  through  it. 

"  How  wretched  a  spectacle  is  a  garden  into  which  the  cloven- 
footed  beasts  have  entered!  That  which  yesterday  was  fra- 
grant, and  shone  all  over  with  crowded  beauty,  is  to-day  rooted, 
despoiled,  trampled,  and  utterly  devoured,  and  all  over  the 
ground  you  shall  find  but  the  rejected  cuds  of  flowers  and 
leaves,  and  forms  that  have  been  champed  for  their  juices 
and  then  rejected.  Such  to  me  is  the  Bible  when  the  prag- 
matic prophecy-monger  and  the  swinish  utilitarian  have  toothed 
its  fruits  and  craunched  its  blossoms. 

"  O  garden  of  the  Lord !  whose  seeds  dropped  down  from 
heaven,  and  to  whom  angels  bear  watering  dews  night  by  night! 
O  flowers  and  plants  of  righteousness !  O  sweet  and  holy 
fruits !  We  walk  among  you,  and  gaze  with  loving  eyes,  and 
rest  under  your  odorous  shadows;  nor  will  we,  with  sacrilegious 
hand,  tear  you,  that  we  may  search  the  secret  of  your  roots, 
nor  spoil  you,  that  we  may  know  how  such  wondrous  grace  and 
goodness  are  evolved  within  you ! " 


BEECHER  433 

"  What  a  pin  is  when  the  diamond  has  dropped  from  its  set- 
ting, is  the  Bible  when  its  emotive  truths  have  been  taken 
away.  What  a  babe's  clothes  are,  when  the  babe  has  slipped 
out  of  them  into  death  and  the  mother's  arms  clasp  only 
raiment,  would  be  the  Bible,  if  the  Babe  of  Bethlehem,  and 
the  truths  of  deep-heartedness  that  clothed  his  life,  should  slip 
out  of  it." 

"  There  is  no  food  for  soul  or  body  which  God  has  not  sjth- 
bolized.  He  is  light  for  the  eye,  sound  for  the  ear,  bread 
for  food,  wine  for  weariness,  peace  for  trouble.  Every  faculty 
of  the  soul,  if  it  would  but  open  its  door,  might  see  Christ 
standing  over  against  it,  and  silently  asking  by  his  smile, 
'Shall  I  come  in  unto  thee?'  But  men  open  the  door  and 
look  down,  not  up,  and  thus  see  him  not.  So  it  is  that  men 
sigh  on,  not  knowing  what  the  soul  wants,  but  only  that  it  needs 
something.  Our  yearnings  are  homesickness  for  heaven;  our 
sighings  are  for  God;  just  as  children  that  cry  themselves 
asleep  away  from  home,  and  sob  in  their  slumber,  know  not 
that  they  sob  for  their  parents.  The  soul's  inarticulate  moan- 
ings  are  the  affections  yearning  for  the  Infinite,  but  having  no 
one  to  tell  them  what  it  is  that  ails  them." 

"  I  feel  sensitive  about  theologies.  Theologj^  is  good  in  its 
place;  but  when  it  puts  its  hoof  upon  a  living,  palpitating, 
human  heart,  my  heart  cries  out  against  it." 

"  There  are  men  marching  along  in  the  company  of  Chris- 
tians on  earth,  who,  when  they  knock  at  the  gate  of  heaven, 
will  hear  God  answer,  '  I  never  knew  you.' — '  But  the  ministers 
did,  and  the  church-books  did.' — '  That  may  be.     I  never  did.' 

"  It  is  no  matter  who  knows  a  man  on  earth,  if  God  does 
not  know  him." 

"  The  heart-knowledge,  through  God's  teaching,  is  true 
wealth,  and  they  are  often  poorest  who  deem  themselves  most 
rich.  I,  in  the  pulpit,  preach  with  proud  forms  to  many  a 
humble  widow  and  stricken  man  who  might  well  teach  me.  The 
student,  spectacled  and  gray  with  wisdom,  and  stuffed  with 
lumbered  lore,  may  be  childish  and  ignorant  beside  some  old 
singing  saint  who  brings  the  wood  into  his  study,  and  who, 
with  the  lens  of  his  own  experience,  brings  down  the  orbs  of 
truth,  and  beholds  through  his  faith  and  his  humility  things 
of  which  the  white-haired  scholar  never  dreamed." 

He  has   eminent   integrity,   is   faithful   to  his   own 

soul,   and    to   every    delegated   trust.     No    words    are 

needed   here    as   proof.      His    life   is    daily    argument. 

The  public  will  understand  this ;  men  whose  taste  he 
11—28 


434  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

offends,  and  whose  theology  he  shocks,  or  to  whose 
philosophy  he  is  repugnant,  have  confidence  in  the  in- 
tegrity of  the  man.  He  means  what  he  says, —  is 
solid  all  through. 

"  From  the  beginning,  I  educated  myself  to  speak  along  the 
line  and  in  the  current  of  my  moral  convictions;  and  though, 
in  later  days,  it  has  carried  me  through  places  where  there 
were  some  batterings  and  bruisings,  yet  I  have  been  supremely 
grateful  that  I  was  led  to  adopt  this  course.  I  would  rather 
speak  the  truth  to  ten  men  than  blandishments  and  lying  to  a 
million.  Try  it,  ye  who  think  there  is  nothing  in  it!  try  what 
it  is  to  speak  with  God  behind  you, —  to  speak  so  as  to  be  only 
the  arrow  in  the  bow  which  the  Almighty  draws." 

With  what  affectionate  tenderness  does  this  great, 
faithful  soul  pour  out  his  love  to  his  own  church !  He 
invites  men  to  the  communion-service. 

"  Christian  brethren,  in  heaven  you  are  known  by  the  name  of 
Christ.  On  earth,  for  convenience's  sake,  you  are  known  by 
the  name  of  Presbyterians,  Episcopalians,  Methodists,  Congre- 
gationalists,  and  the  like.  Let  me  speak  the  language  of 
heaven,  and  call  you  simply  Christians.  Whoever  of  you  has 
known  the  name  of  Christ,  and  feels  Christ's  Life  beating  within 
him,  is  invited  to  remain  and  sit  with  us  at  the  table  of  the 
Lord." 

And  again,  when  a  hundred  were  added  to  his 
church,  he  says: — 

"  My  friends,  my  heart  is  large  to-day.  I  am  like  a  tree 
upon  which  rains  have  fallen  till  every  leaf  is  covered  with 
drops  of  dew;  and  no  wind  goes  through  the  boughs  but  I  hear 
the  pattering  of  some  thought  of  joy  and  gratitude.  I  love 
you  all  more  than  ever  before.  You  are  crystalline  to  me; 
your  faces  are  radiant;  and  I  look  through  your  eyes,  as 
through  windows,  into  heaven.  I  behold  in  each  of  you  an  im- 
prisoned angel,  that  is  yet  to  burst  forth,  and  to  live  and  shine 
in  the  better  sphere." 

He  has  admirable  power  of  making  a  popular  state- 
ment of  his  opinions.  He  does  not  analyze  a  matter  to 
its  last  elements,  put  the  ultimate  facts  in  a  row  and 


BEECHER  435 

find  out  their  causes  or  their  law  of  action,  nor  aim 
at  large  synthesis  of  generalization,  the  highest  effort 
of  philosophy,  which  groups  things  into  a  whole  —  it 
is  commonly  thought  both  of  these  processes  are  out 
of  place  in  meeting-houses  and  lecture-halls,  that  the 
people  can  comprehend  neither  the  one  nor  the  other 
—  but  he  gives  a  popular  view  of  the  thing  to  be  dis- 
cussed, which  can  be  understood  on  the  spot  without 
painful  reflection.  He  speaks  for  the  ear  which  takes 
in  at  once  and  understands.  He  never  makes  atten- 
tion painful.  He  illustrates  his  subject  from  daily 
life ;  the  fields,  the  streets,  stars,  flowers,  music,  and 
babies  are  his  favorite  emblems.  He  remembers  that 
he  does  not  speak  to  scholars,  to  minds  disciplined  by 
long  habits  of  thought,  but  to  men  with  common  edu- 
cation, careful  and  troubled  about  many  things ;  and 
they  keep  his  words  and  ponder  them  in  their  hearts. 
So  he  has  the  diffuseness  of  a  wide  natural  field,  which 
properly  spreads  out  its  clover,  dandelions,  dock,  but- 
tercups, grasses,  violets,  with  here  and  there  a  deli- 
cate Arethusa  that  seems  to  have  run  under  this  sea 
of  common  vegetation  and  come  up  in  a  strange  place. 
He  has  not  the  artificial  condensation  of  a  garden, 
where  luxuriant  nature  assumes  the  form  of  art.  His 
dramatic  power  makes  his  sermon  also  a  life  in  the 
pulpit ;  his  auditorium  is  also  a  theatrum,  for  he  acts 
to  the  eye  what  he  addresses  to  the  ear,  and  at  once 
wisdom  enters  at  the  two  gates.  The  extracts  show 
his  power  of  thought  and  speech  as  well  as  of  feel- 
ing. Here  are  specimens  of  that  peculiar  humor 
which  appears  in  all  his  works. 

"  Sects  and  Cnristians  that  desire  to  be  known  by  the  undue 
prominence  of  some  single  feature  of  Christianity  are  neces- 
sarily imperfect  just  in  proportion  to  the  distinctness  of  their 
peculiarities.     The  power  of  Christian  truth  is  in  its  unity  and 


436  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

symmetry,  and  not  in  the  saliency  or  brilliancy  of  any  of  its 
special  doctrines.  If  among  painters  of  the  human  face  and 
form  there  should  spring  up  a  sect  of  the  eyes,  and  another 
sect  of  the  nose,  a  sect  of  the  hand,  and  a  sect  of  the  foot, 
and  all  of  them  should  agree  but  in  the  one  thing  of  forgetting 
that  there  was  a  living  spirit  behind  the  features  more  im- 
portant than  them  all,  they  would  too  much  resemble  the 
schools  and  cliques  of  Christians;  for  the  spirit  of  Christ  is 
the  great  essential  truth;  doctrines  are  but  the  features  of 
the  face,  and  ordinances  but  the  hands  and  feet." 

Here  are  some  separate  maxims: — 

"  It  is  not  well  for  a  man  to  pray  cream  and  live  skim- 
milk." 

"  The  mother's  heart  is  the  child's  school-room." 

"  They  are  not  reformers  who  simply  abhor  evil.  Such  men 
become  in  the  end  abhorrent  themselves." 

"  There  are  many  troubles  which  you  can't  cure  by  the  Bible 
and  the  Hymn-book,  but  which  you  can  cure  by  a  good  perspira- 
tion and  a  breath  of  fresh  air." 

"  The  most  dangerous  infidelity  of  the  day  is  the  infidelity 
of  rich  and  orthodox  churches." 

"  The  fact  that  a  nation  is  growing  is  God's  own  charter  of 
change." 

"  There  is  no  class  in  society  who  can  so  ill  afford  to  under- 
mine the  conscience  of  the  community,  or  to  set  it  loose  from 
its  moorings  in  the  eternal  sphere,  as  merchants  who  live  upon 
confidence  and  credit.  Anything  which  weakens  or  paralyzes 
this  is  taking  beams  from  the  foundations  of  the  merchant's 
own  warehouse." 

"  It  would  almost  seem  as  if  there  were  a  certain  drollery 
of  art  which  leads  men  who  think  they  are  doing  one  thing 
to  do  another  and  very  different  one.  Thus,  men  have  set  up 
in  their  painted  church-windows  the  symbolisms  of  virtues  and 
graces,  and  the  images  of  saints,  and  even  of  Divinity  itself. 
Yet  now,  what  does  the  window  do  but  mock  the  separations 
and  proud  isolations  of  Christian  men?  For  there  sit  the  audi- 
ence, each  one  taking  a  separate  color;  and  there  are  blue 
Christians  and  red  Christians,  there  are  yellow  saints  and 
orange  saints,  there  are  purple  Christians  and  green  Chris- 
tians; but  how  few  are  simple,  pure,  white  Christians,  uniting 
all  the  cardinal  graces,  and  proud,  not  of  separate  colors,  but 
of  the  whole  manhood  of  Christ ! " 

"  Every  mind  is  entered,  like  every  house,  through  its  own 
door." 


BEECHER  437 

"  Doctrine  is  nothing  but  the  skin  of  truth  set  up  and 
stuflFed." 

"  Compromise  is  the  word  that  men  use  when  the  devil  gets 
a  victory  over  God's  cause." 

"  A  man  in  the  right,  with  God  on  his  side,  is  in  the  ma- 
jority, though  he  be  alone;  for  God  is  multitudinous  above  all 
populations  of  the  earth." 

But  this  was  first  said  by  Frederic  Douglas,  and 
better:     "One  with  God  is  a  majority." 

"A  lie  always  needs  a  truth  for  a  handle  to  it;  else  the 
hand  would  cut  itself,  which  sought  to  drive  it  home  upon 
another.  The  worst  lies,  therefore,  are  those  whose  blade  is 
false,  but  whose  handle  is  true." 

"  It  is  not  conviction  of  truth  which  does  men  good ;  it  is 
moral  consciousness  of  truth." 

"A  conservative  young  man  has  wound  up  his  life  before 
it  was  unreeled.  We  expect  old  men  to  be  conservative;  but 
when  a  nation's  young  men  are  so,  its  funeral-bell  is  already 
rung." 

"Night-labor,  in  time,  will  destroy  the  student;  for  it  is 
marrow  from  his  own  bones  with  which  he  fills  his  lamp." 

A  great-hearted,  eloquent,  fervent,  live  man,  full 
of  religious  emotion,  of  humanity  and  love, —  no  won- 
der he  is  dear  to  the  people  of  America.  Long  may 
he  bring  instruction  to  the  lecture  associations  of  the 
North !  Long  may  he  stand  in  his  pulpit  at  Brooklyn 
with  his  heavenly  candle,  which  goeth  not  out  at  all 
by  day,  to  kindle  the  devotion  and  piety  of  the  thou- 
sands who  cluster  around  him,  and  carry  thence  light 
and  warmth  to  all  the  borders  of  the  land ! 

We  should  do  injustice  to  our  own  feelings,  did 
we  not,  in  closing,  add  a  word  of  hearty  thanks  and 
commendation  to  the  member  of  Mr.  Beecher's  con- 
gregation to  whom  we  are  indebted  for  a  volume  that 
has  given  us  so  much  pleasure.  The  selection  covers 
a  wide  range  of  topics,  and  testifies  at  once  to  the 
good  taste  and  the  culture  of  the  editress.     Many  of 


438  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

the  finest  passages  were  conceived  and  uttered  in  the 
rapid  inspiration  of  speaking,  and  but  for  her  admir- 
ing intelligence  and  care,  the  eloquence,  wit,  and  wis- 
dom, which  are  here  preserved  to  us,  would  have  faded 
into  air  with  the  last  vibration  of  the  preacher's  voice. 


LIFE  AND  CHARACTER  OF  DR.  FOLLEN 

There  are  two  classes  of  men  that  have  a  wide  and 
reformatory  influence  on  the  world ;  who  write  out 
their  thoughts  and  sentiments,  not  in  words  only,  but 
in  things.  The  one  consists  of  men  of  great  intel- 
lectual power,  but  no  special  goodness  of  heart.  They 
see  in  the  "  dry  light  "  of  the  understanding  what 
is  false,  what  wrong,  what  ludicrous  in  man's  affairs, 
and  expose  it  to  be  rejected,  to  be  abhorred  or  to  be 
laughed  at.  Their  eye  is  keen  and  far-reaching  in  the 
actual ;  but  their  insight  is  not  the  deepest,  nor  does 
the  sphere  of  their  reason  include  all  things  of  human 
concern.  Of  these  men  you  do  not  ask,  What  was 
their  character?  how  did  they  live  in  their  day  and 
their  place?  but  only,  What  did  they  think  of  this 
thing  and  of  that?  Their  lives  may  have  been  bad, 
their  motives,  both  for  silence  and  for  speech,  may  have 
been  ignoble  and  selfish,  and  their  whole  life  but  a 
long  attempt  to  build  up  for  themselves  a  fortune  and 
a  name ;  but  that  does  not  mar  their  influence,  except 
in  the  narrow  sphere  of  their  personal  life.  The  good 
they  do  lives  after  them,  the  evil  sleeps  with  their 
buried  bones.  The  world  looks  on  them  as  half-men, 
expects  from  them  no  wholeness  of  action,  but  takes 
their  good  gift  and  first  forgives  and  then  forgets 
their  moral  obliquity  or  defects.  It  is  often  painful 
to  contemplate  such  men.  The  brightness  of  their 
intellect  leads  us  to  wish  for  a  corresponding  beauty 
on   their   moral   side.     If   a    man's    wisdom   does    not 

439 


440  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

show  itself  in  his  works,  if  his  Hght  does  not  becomel 
his  hfe,  making  his  pathway  radiant ;  why,  our  moral 
anticipation  is  disappointed,  and  we  turn  away  in 
sadness.  Men  of  a  giant's  mind  and  a  pigmy's  heart; 
men  capable  of  spanning  the  heavens,  of  fathoming 
the  depths  of  all  human  science,  of  mounting  with 
vigorous  and  untiring  pinions  above  the  roar  of  the 
crowd  and  the  prejudice  of  th„  schools,  and  continu- 
ing their  flight  before  the  admiring  eyes  of  lesser  men! 
till  distance  and  loftiness  swallows  them  up ;  men  who  I 
bring  back  from  their  adventurous  voyagings  new 
discoveries  for  human  wonder,  new  truths  for  daily 
use ;  men,  too,  that  with  all  this  wondrous  endowment 
of  intellect  are  yet  capable  of  vanity,  selfish  ambition, 
and  the  thousand  little  arts  which  make  up  the  ac- 
complished worldling,  such  men  are  a  sore  puzzle  to 
the  young  and  enthusiastic  moralist.  "  What,"  he 
says,  "  is  God  unjust?  Shall  the  man  whose  eye  is 
ever  on  himself,  keen  as  the  eagle's  to  look  for  his 
own  profit,  yet  dull  as  the  blindworm's  or  the  beetle's 
to  the  shadoAvs  of  wrong  in  his  own  bosom,  shall  he 
be  gifted  with  this  faculty  to  pierce  the  mystic  cur- 
tains of  nature,  and  see  clearly  in  his  ignoble  life 
where  the  saint  groped  for  the  wall  and  fell,  not  see- 
ing? "  Such  is  the  factj  often  as  he  may  attempt  to 
disguise  it.  The  world,  past  and  present,  furnishes  us 
with  proofs  that  cannot  be  winked  out  of  sight.  Men 
capable  of  noble  and  reformatory  thought,  who  lack 
the  accomplishment  of  goodness  and  a  moral  life  — 
we  need  not  pause  to  point  out  men  of  this  character, 
both  present  and  departed ;  that  would  be  an  ungrate- 
ful work,  one  not  needed  to  be  done. 

The  other  class  is  made  up  of  men  of  moral  powers. 
Their  mental  ability  may  be  small  or  great,  but  their 


FOLLEN  441 

goodness  is  the  most  striking,  and  the  fundamental 
thing.  They  niay  not  look  over  a  large  field,  nor  be 
conversant  with  all  the  nooks  and  crevices  of  this 
wondrous  world,  where  science  each  day  brings  some 
new  miracle  to  light ;  but  in  the  spliere  of  morals  they 
see  as  no  others.  Fast  as  thought  comes  to  them  it 
turns  into  action ;  what  was  at  first  but  light,  ele- 
mentary and  cold,  is  soon  transformed  into  life,  which 
multiplies  itself  and  its  blessings.  These  men  look 
with  a  single  e\'e  to  the  everlasting  right.  To  them 
God's  law  is  a  law  to  be  kept,  come  present  weal  or 
present  woe.  They  ask  not.  What  shall  accrue  to  me, 
or  praise  or  blame?  But  contentedly  thc\'  do  the 
work  of  righteousness  their  hands  find  to  do,  and  this 
with  all  their  might.  They  live  faster  than  they  see, 
for  with  a  true  moral  man  the  spontaneous  runs  be- 
fore the  reflective,  as  John  outran  Peter  in  seeking 
the  risen  Son  of  Man.  When  these  men  have  but 
humble  minds  they  are  worthy  of  deep  homage  from 
all  mankind.  In  solitude  and  in  silence,  seen  by  no 
eye  but  the  All-seeing,  they  plant  with  many  and 
hopeful  praj^ers  the  seed  that  is  one  day  to  spread 
wide  its  branches,  laden  with  all  manner  of  fruit,  its 
very  leaves  for  the  heahng  of  the  nations.  How  often 
has  it  happened  that  some  woman,  uncouth,  not  well 
bred,  and  with  but  little  of  mind,  has  kindled  in  some 
boy's  bosom  a  love  of  right,  a  sense  of  the  sweetness 
of  charity,  of  the  beauty  of  religion,  which  grew  with 
his  growth  and  strengthened  with  his  strength,  and  at 
last  towered  forth,  strong  and  flame-like,  in  the  moral 
heroism  of  a  man  whom  heaven  employs  to  stir  the 
world  and  help  God's  kingdom  come !  It  was  only  a 
raven  which  the  boj^s,  resting  at  noon-day  beside  the 
brook   Cherith,  saw  slowly  flying  towards   the  moun- 


442  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

tain.     But  he  bore  in  his  beak  food  for  the  fainting 
prophet,  the  last  of  the  faithfuh 

When  this  moral  power  is  found  with  great  intel- 
lectual gifts,  as  it  sometimes  is,  then  have  we  the  fair- 
est form  of  humanity,  the  mind  of  a  giant,  and  an 
angel's  heart.  These  act,  each  on  each.  The  quick- 
ening sentiment  fires  the  thought ;  this  gives  strength 
again  to  the  feelings.  The  eye  is  single,  the  whole 
body  is  full  of  light.  The  intellect  of  such  an  one 
attracts  admiration,  his  moral  excellence  enforces  love. 
He  teaches  by  his  words  of  wisdom,  by  his  works  of 
goodness.  Happy  is  the  age  that  beholds  a  conjunc- 
tion so  rare  and  auspicious  as  that  of  eminent  genius, 
and  moral  excellence  as  eminent.  A  single  man  of 
that  stamp  gives  character  to  the  age,  a  new  epoch 
is  begun.  Men  are  forced  to  call  themselves  after 
his  name,  and  that  may  be  said  of  him  which  was  said 
of  Elias  the  prophet,  "  After  his  death  his  body 
prophesied."     But  such  are  the  rarest  sons  of  God. 

Dr.  Pollen  belonged  to  the  class  of  men  that  act 
on  the  world  by  their  moral  power.  Certainly  it  was 
that  which  was  most  conspicuous  in  him,  in  his  counte- 
nance, his  writings,  his  life.  Some  live  for  study ; 
their  books,  both  what  they  read  and  what  they  write, 
are  their  life ;  and  others  for  action.  They  write  their 
soul  out  in  works ;  their  name  may  perish,  their  use- 
fulness remains,  and  widens  and  deepens  till  time  and 
the  human  race  shall  cease  to  be.  Dr.  FoUen  be- 
longed to  the  class,  then,  of  men  of  moral  action. 
In  saying  this  we  do  not  mean  to  imply  that  there 
was  little  of  intellectual  force,  only  that  the  moral 
power  cast  it  into  the  shade ;  not  that  he  could  not 
have  been  eminent  in  the  empire  of  abstract  thought, 
but  only  that  he  chose  the  broad  realm  of  benevolent 


! 


FOLLEN 


44a 


action.  Others,  better  fitted  for  the  task,  and  with 
more  space  and  time  at  command,  will  doubtless  judge 
his  writings  from  the  intellectual  point  of  view,  and 
mankind  will  pass  the  irreversible  decree  on  his  re- 
corded thoughts,  and  bid  them  live  or  die.  We  shall 
confine  ourselves  to  the  first  volume  of  his  works,  con- 
taining a  biography  written  by  his  wife,  and  only 
attempt  a  delineation  of  the  moral  life  and  works  of 
the  man. 

The  main  points  of  his  history  are  briefly  summed 
up.  Charles  Theodore  Follen  was  born  on  the  4th  of 
September,  1796,  at  Romrod,  in  the  western  part  of 
Germany ;  became  obnoxious  to  the  government  at  an 
early  age,  fled  to  Switzerland  for  an  asylum  in  1820, 
came  to  America  as  the  only  civilized  land  that  of- 
fered him  life  and  liberty  in  1824,  and  ceased  to  be 
mortal  in  the  beginning  of  1840. 

There  is  a  rare  unity  in  his  life,  such  as  we  scarcely 
remember  to  have  noticed  in  any  modern  biography. 
It  is  a  moral-heroic  drama  in  one  act,  though  the  scene 
shifts  from  the  college  to  the  camp,  from  the  thunder- 
ing storm  of  a  meeting  of  reformers  to  the  Christian 
pulpit  and  the  Sunday  school,  where  children  are 
taught  of  the  Great  Reformer  of  the  World.  Dr. 
Follen's  work  began  in  early  life ;  while  yet  a  stripling 
at  college  we  see  the  same  qualities,  working  for  the 
same  end,  as  in  the  very  last  scenes  of  his  life.  His 
pious  love  of  freedom,  his  abhorrence  of  all  that  had 
the  savor  of  oppression  about  it,  his  disinterested  zeal 
for  mankind,  his  unconcern  for  himself  so  long  as 
God  saw  him  at  his  post  and  his  work,  these  began 
early  and  continued  till  the  last.  His  whole  life  was 
a  warfare  against  sin,  that  had  slain  and  taken  pos- 
session of  what  belongs  to  mankind.  But  we  must 
speak  of  the  details  of  his  history  more  minutely. 


444  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

He  was  the  son  of  a  counsellor-at-law  and  judge  in 
Hesse  Darmstadt.  When  a  child  he  was  serious  and 
earnest  beyond  his  years.  He  received  his  education 
at  the  Seminary  and  University  at  Giessen,  devoting 
himself  to  the  study  of  the  law.  His  enthusiasm 
against  the  French  kindled  with  the  uprising  of  his 
Father-land,  and  in  1813  we  find  him  a  soldier  in  the 
army  of  the  patriots.  The  return  of  peace  the  next 
year  restored  him  to  his  studies  at  the  University.  At 
the  age  of  twelve,  says  his  biographer,  he  had  con- 
ceived thoughts  of  a  Christian  society  far  different 
from  all  that  is  now  actual  on  the  earth,  and  while  at 
the  University  "  consecrated  himself  to  the  work  of  a 
reformer  by  a  perfect  subjection  of  himself  to  the  law 
of  justice  and  universal  brotherhood,  as  taught  by 
Jesus."  His  attempts  to  reform  his  fellow  students 
brought  him  into  trouble,  and  rendered  him  an  object 
of  suspicion  to  the  government.  At  the  age  of  twenty 
he  began  to  lecture,  in  a  private  capacity,  we  suppose, 
on  "various  parts  of  jurisprudence"  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Giessen.  At  this  period  doubts  respecting  re- 
ligion came  over  him.  He  met  the  enemy  face  to  face, 
studied  the  writings  of  skeptics,  pantheists  and  in- 
fidels, and  found  the  books  written  against  Christian- 
ity, next  to  the  Gospel  itself,  were  the  most  efficient 
promoters  of  his  belief  in  its  divine  truth.  This  fear- 
less examination  of  all  that  had  been  said  against 
religion  showed  him  that  it  rested  on  a  rock  which 
neither  its  foes  nor  its  friends  could  ever  shake.  He 
never  afterwards  feared  that  the  most  valuable  of  all 
man's  treasures  could  be  blown  away  by  a  few  mouth- 
fuls  of  wind.  Did  a  man  who  knew  religion  by  heart 
ever  fear  that  it  would  perish? 

In  1818  some  towns  in  Hesse  engaged  this  youth, 


FOLLEN  445 

in  his  twenty-second  year,  to  help  them  in  escaping  an 
artful  design  of  their  government  to  oppress  them. 
His  noble  attempt  succeeded.  Of  course  "  the  influ- 
ential persons  "  whose  object  he  defeated,  and  the  gov- 
ernment whose  illegal  designs  he  exposed,  were  of- 
fended at  him.  He  became  the  object  of  a  bitter  and 
unrelenting  persecution.  His  hopes  blighted  in  his 
native  kingdom,  he  accepted  an  invitation  to  the  Uni- 
versity of  Jena.  Here  he  commenced  a  course  of 
lectures  on  the  Pandects  before  a  respectable  audi- 
ence, though  it  was  thought  extraordinary  for  so 
young  a  man  to  undertake  a  branch  so  difficult.  Here 
also  his  reformatory  and  liberal  principles  stood  in 
the  way  of  his  promotion.  He  was  tried  as  an  ac- 
complice of  George  Sand  in  the  murder  of  Kotzebue, 
a  tool  of  despotism,  was  acquitted,  but  forbidden  to 
lecture  in  Jena.  He  returned  to  Giessen,  suspected 
by  the  government,  treated  with  coolness  by  some  of 
his  "  friends,"  for  they  thought  his  cause  without 
hope,  and  "  left  him  to  strive  alone  in  his  hour  of  trial 
and  suffering."  The  excellence  of  his  character  was 
pleaded  as  proof  of  his  innocence  of  ill.  "  So  much 
the  worse,"  said  one  opposer,  who  knew  what  he  was 
about ;  "  I  should  like  him  better  if  he  had  a  few 
vices."  The  government,  thinking  him  the  handle  of 
the  axe,  which  they  knew  lay,  ready  and  sharpened,  at 
the  root  of  the  tree,  intended  to  imprison  him.  He 
escaped  by  flight  to  Strasburg,  thence  to  Paris,  and 
became  acquainted  with  Lafayette.  But  all  foreign- 
ers were  soon  ordered  to  quit  France,  for  this  was  in 
1820,  and  the  same  spirit  ruled  in  Paris  as  in  Giessen. 
A  lady  invited  him  to  Switzerland.  Here  he  was  in- 
vited to  become  a  professor  in  the  Cantonal  School  of 
the  Grisons,  one  of  the  higher  seminaries   of  educa- 


446  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

tion.  Here  again  his  liberal  spirit  raised  up  enemies. 
But  at  this  time  it  was  the  church,  not  the  state,  that 
took  offense  at  his  freedom.  In  his  lectures  on  his- 
tory he  ascribed  the  Christian  revelation  to  the  effi- 
cacy of  two  great  principles,  namely,  the  doctrine  of 
one  God,  and  that  all  men  ought  to  love  one  another, 
and  strive  after  godlike  perfection.  Some  were  in- 
spired to  lead  men  to  this  great  aim.  The  clergy  were 
alarmed,  and  declared  that  he  denied  the  godhead  of 
Jesus,  total  depravity,  and  original  sin.  Dr.  Pol- 
len's resignation  of  his  office  was  the  result  of  this 
clerical  alarm.  However,  he  was  soon  appointed  as  a 
public  lecturer  at  the  University  of  Basle,  where  he 
taught  natural,  civil,  and  ecclesiastical  law,  and  phi- 
losophy in  its  application  to  religion,  morals,  legis- 
lation, and  the  fine  arts.  But  even  here,  "  where  the 
free  Switzer  yet  bestrides  alone  his  chainless  moun- 
tains," he  was  not  secure,  while  in  the  canton  of  the 
Grisons  the  Congress  of  Troppau  demanded  that  he 
should  be  given  up.  While  at  Basle,  in  1824,  the 
government  of  Basle  received  three  notes  from  the 
governments  of  Austria,  Prussia,  and  Russia,  demand- 
ing that  he  should  be  given  up  to  the  tribunal  of 
inquisition.  The  result  of  all  was  that  he  fled  from 
Basle  hid  under  the  boot  of  a  chaise  to  Paris,  and 
thence  to  America,  where  he  arrived  in  December, 
1824.  His  subsequent  story  may  be  briefly  hinted  at. 
He  was  successively  teacher  of  Ethics  and  Ecclesias- 
tical History  at  the  Divinity  School  and  teacher  of 
German  in  the  University  at  Cambridge,  a  preacher  of 
the  Gospel  at  Boston,  New  York,  Lexington,  and  other 
places ;  and  as  a  philanthropist  engaging  in  the 
benevolent  works  of  the  day. 

Dr.    Follen   was    eminently    a    Christian    man.     By 


FOLLEN  447 

this  we  do  not  mean  that  he  had  learned  by  rote  a 
few  traditional  doctrines,  whose  foundation  he  never 
dared  examine,  and  condemned  all  such  as  could  not 
accept  them,  not  that  he  loved  to  say  there  was  no 
salvation  out  of  the  Procrustes-bed  of  his  own  church, 
not  that  he  accepted  the  popular  standard  of  con- 
ventional morals,  cursing  all  that  fell  below  and  damn- 
ing such  as  were  above  that  standard.  We  know  this 
is  too  often  a  true  description  of  the  sectarian  or 
popular  Christian,  a  man  with  more  memory  than 
thought,  more  belief  than  life,  more  fear  than  love. 
With  Dr.  Follen  Christianity  took  a  turn  a  little 
different.  To  serve  God  with  the  whole  mind  was  not 
necessarily  to  think  as  Anselm  and  Augustine  in  re- 
ligious matters,  but  to  think  truly  and  uprightly ;  to 
serve  him  with  the  whole  heart  and  soul  was  to  live  a 
life  of  active  goodness  and  holiness  of  heart.  He  was 
not  one  of  the  many  who  have  days  to  be  Christians, 
and  days  to  be  men  of  the  world ;  but  a  Christian  once 
was  a  Christian  always.  We  do  not  mean  to  say  that 
he  had  no  stains  of  human  imperfection,  weakness  and 
evil.  Doubtless  he  had  such.  The  prurient  eye  may 
read  traces  of  such  on  this  monument,  where  conjugal 
love  solaces  its  bereavement  by  tracing,  with  affection- 
ate pen,  the  tale  of  his  life,  his  trials,  his  temptations, 
and  his  endurance. 

In  a  moral  character  so  rich  as  this  of  Dr.  Follen  it 
is  difficult,  perhaps,  to  select  a  point  of  sufficient  promi- 
nence by  which  to  distinguish  the  man,  and  about 
which  to  group  the  lesser  elements  of  his  being.  But 
what  strikes  us  as  chief  is  his  love  of  freedom.  He 
felt  man  was  superior  to  all  the  circumstances,  pros- 
perous or  adverse,  which  could  be  gathered  about  him. 
Therefore,  he  saw  the  weakness  of  men  beneath  the 


448  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

trappings  of  a  monarch's  court,  and  did  not  fear  to 
lift  up  his  juvenile  voice  for  human  rights  and  ever- 
lasting truth;  therefore,  he  saw  the  greatness  of  men 
under  the  squalid  garments  of  the  beggar  or  the  slave, 
and  never  despaired  of  raising  them  to  the  estate  of 
a  man,  but  toiled  and  prayed  for  this  great  end. 
This  love  of  freedom  was  conspicuous  in  his  youth, 
breathing  in  the  "  Great  Song ;  "  ^  and  shone  more  and 
more  as  years  gave  him  the  meditative  mind.  It  ap- 
pears in  all  his  writings,  in  all  his  life.  At  an  early 
age  he  joined  the  army  to  fight  for  freedom  and  his 
Fatherland  in  the  tented  field;  the  chief  cause  he  en- 
gaged in  as  a  lawyer  was  the  cause  of  right  against 
oppression.  For  this  he  was  an  exile  in  a  strange 
land,  and  in  that  land  he  but  continued  in  manhood 
the  work  begun  in  youth.  This  love  of  freedom  ap- 
peared in  his  sermons,  where,  some  think,  it  do€s  not 
often  appear.  So  one  day  after  preaching,  a  friend 
"  who  had  a  kind  heart,  but  an  arbitrary  character," 
took  him  by  the  button  and  said,  "  Your  sermon,  sir, 
was  very  sensible,  but  you  spoil  your  discourses  with 
your  views  about  freedom.  We  are  all  wearied  with 
hearing  the  same  thing  from  you.  You  always  have 
something  about  freedom  in  whatever  you  say  to  us. 
I  am  sick  of  hearing  about  freedom ;  we  have  too  much 
freedom.  We  are  all  sick  of  it ;  don't  let  us  hear  any 
more  such  sermons  from  you." 

He  saw  the  great  stain  which  defiles  the  govern- 
ment of  the  Union,  the  stain  of  slavery.  With  his 
characteristic  zeal  he  espoused  the  cause  of  the  op- 
pressed and  downtrodden  African.  His  attention  was 
first  called  to  the  subject  by  accident.  As  he  returned 
from  preaching,  one  rainy  day,  he  overtook  a  negro, 
apparentl}^  not  well  able  to  bear  the  storm.     He  took 


FOLLEN  449 

him  into  tlie  chaise.  The  negro  talked  of  slavery,  of 
Mr.  Walker's  "  incendiarj^  publication,"  of  the  sus- 
picious death  of  Mr.  Walker,"  This  awakened  the  at- 
tention of  Dr.  Follen  to  the  subject.  He  soon  visited 
Mr.  Garrison,  whose  efforts  in  the  cause  of  Abolition 
have  been  so  justly  celebrated.  "  He  found  him  in  a 
little  upper  chamber  where  were  his  writing-desk,  his 
types,  and  his  printing-press ;  his  parlor  by  day,  his 
sleeping-room  by  night ;  where,  known  only  by  a  few 
other  faithful  spirits,  he  denied  himself  all  but  the 
bare  necessaries  of  life  that  he  might  give  himself  up, 
heart  and  hand,  to  the  despised  cause  of  the  negro 
slave." 

Here  he  did  not  find  many  of  the  more  conspicuous 
men  of  the  land  to  join  him.  There  is  a  time  when 
every  great  cause,  that  is  one  day  to  move  the  mil- 
lions, rests  on  the  hands  and  in  the  hearts  of  a  few 
men ;  noble  hearts  and  strong  hands ;  heroes  of  the 
soul,  whom  God  raises  up  to  go  on  the  forlorn  hope 
of  humanity  and  shed  their  life  where  others  shall 
one  day  wave  the  banner  of  triumph,  and  walking  dry- 
shod,  sing  paeans  of  victory,  though  often  unmindful 
of  those  by  whom  the  day  was  won.  In  1833  Dr. 
Follen  writes  to  Dr.  Bowring,^  and  says  he  has  "  been 
seven  years  in  the  land,  and  found  but  two  eminent 
men.  Dr.  Channing  and  Clement  C.  Biddle,^  who  will 
not  connive  at  slavery  for  any  purpose ! "  Dr. 
Bowring's  reply  is  worthy  to  be  pondered :  '*  I  am 
not  surprised  at  the  way  you  speak  of  the  slavery  ques- 
tion. It  is  indeed  the  opprobium  of  the  United  States. 
There  is  no  escape  from  the  palpable,  the  prominent, 
the  pestiferous  fact,  that  human  beings  are  bought 
and  sold  by  men  who  call  themselves  republicans  and 

Christians.      It  is  thrown  in  our  teeth,  it  is  slapped  in 
11—29 


450  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

our  faces,  it  is  branded  on  our  souls,  when  we  talk  of 
your  country  and  hold  up  your  institutions  to  ad- 
miration and  imitation.  You  must  indeed  labor  day 
and  night,  at  sun-rising  and  sun-setting,  at  home  and 
abroad,  with  the  influential  above,  and  with  the  in- 
fluential below  you." 

In  the  days  of  peril  which  came  over  the  anti- 
slavery  cause  Dr.  Follen  did  not  shrink  from  fidelity 
to  his  principles.  He  faced  the  evil  like  a  man,  neither 
courage  nor  calmness  forsaking  him.  We  would 
gladly,  for  our  country's  sake,  tear  out  many  pages  of 
the  book  that  records  his  life;  for  they  are  pages  of 
shame  to  the  free  state  we  live  in ;  but  what  is  done 
cannot  be  undone  by  silence.*  But  there  was  one  as 
true  in  this  matter  as  himself.  His  wife  writes  thus: 
"  There  were  some  of  my  friends  who  thought  that  I 
should  feel  very  badly  at  seeing  my  husband  one  of 
this  little  company  of  insulted  men ;  but  as  he  stood 
there  [before  a  committee  of  the  Legislature],  bat- 
tling for  freedom  of  speech  in  this  free  land,  sur- 
rounded by  the  rich  and  the  powerful,  and  the  favor- 
ites of  the  world,  and  condemned  by  them  all  for  it,  I 
would  not  have  had  him  exchange  positions  with  any 
one  of  them.  The  unruffled  calmness  of  his  soul  took 
possession  of  mine."  This  is  not  the  only  instance  of 
the  same  spirit  in  her.  Before  this  she  had  bid  him 
above  all  things  to  be  true  to  his  convictions.  One  day 
he  said  to  his  wife,  "  I  have  been  thinking  of  joining 
the  Anti-Slavery  Society;  what  do  you  think  of  it.f*  " 
"  That  you  ought  to  follow  the  light  of  your  own 
mind,"  was  the  reply;  "why  should  you  hesitate.''" 
"  I  know  that  it  will  be  greatly  in  the  way  of  my 
worldly  interests."  "  Very  well,"  says  the  wife.  "  I 
*  See,    especially",   pages    387-403,   not   to   name   other   places. 


FOLLEN  461 

feel,"  he  replied,  "  as  if  I  ought  to  join  them." 
"  Then  why  not  do  it?  "  "  It  is  a  serious  thing  to 
relinquish  my  worldly  prospects  altogether.  If  I  join 
the  Anti-Slavery  Society  I  shall  certainly  lose  all 
chance  of  a  permanent  place  in  college  or  perhaps  any- 
where else.  If  it  were  only  for  m3'Self  I  should  not 
be  troubled  about  it ;  but  to  involve  you  and  Charles 
in  the  evils  of  real  poverty  —  I  shrink  from  that." 
"  You  have,"  replied  the  same  adviser,  "  sacrificed 
your  country,  your  home,  and  all  that  makes  home 
dear  for  the  sake  of  freedom  and  humanity ;  do  not 
think  that  we  are  not  able  to  make  the  slight  sacri- 
fices which  we  may  be  called  on  to  make  in  this  cause." 

"  He  knew,"  says  the  biographer,  "  that  there  are 
evils  belonging  to  all  associations ;  he  never  vindicated 
nor  approved  of  abusive  language  in  the  Abolitionists, 
any  more  than  in  their  opposers ;  but  when  a  young 
friend  raised  this  objection  to  joining  the  Anti- 
Slavery  Society  he  replied  to  him,  '  I  did  not  feel  at 
liberty  to  stand  aloof  from  a  society  whose  only  object 
was  the  abolition  of  slavery.'  " 

Were  his  fears  well-grounded.'^  To  be  true,  one 
must  always  pay  the  price.  "  A  clerg^'^man  made  a 
most  vehemment  attack  upon  Dr.  Follen  [though  only 
in  words]  for  his  devotion  to  the  cause  of  Abolition. 
It  was  in  the  street."  One  Thanksgiving-day,  while 
preaching  at  New  York,  in  part  of  his  sermon  he 
spoke  of  the  subject  of  slavery:  "  Before  he  had  con- 
cluded the  first  sentence  of  his  remarks,  two  gentle- 
men rose  and  went  out  of  the  church  looking  very 
angry.  Many  others  showed  signs  of  displeasure  and 
alarm,  and  his  words  evidently  excited  a  strong  sensa- 
tion through  the  whole  society."  Dr.  Follen  him- 
self writes  as  follows  about  the  matter :     "  It  is  some- 


452  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

what  doubtful  now  whether  they  will  settle  me  here 
permanently.  I  feel  sure  that,  if  I  had  known  the  con- 
sequences, I  should  have  changed  nothing,  either  in 
matter  or  manner.  So  we  feel  easy,  come  what  may." 
He  himself  attributed  his  failure  with  that  society  to 
his  expression  of  the  obnoxious  opinions  about  slavery. 
But  we  will  speak  no  more  of  this  theme.  ■ 

While  a  minister  at  New  York  he  labored  to  convert 
men  from  infidelity,  to  apply  religion  to  daily  life. 
He  rejoiced  in  having  that  city  for  the  sphere  of  his 
action,  where  misery,  vice,  and  irreligion  are  sup- 
posed to  act  with  a  deeper  intensity  of  violence  than 
elsewhere  in  the  land.  His  heart  was  in  his  calling. 
His  biographer  speaks  of  his  ministerial  character  and 
conduct :  "  When  he  saw  a  crowd  of  human  beings 
assembled  around  him,  he  did  not  look  upon  them  as 
rich  or  poor,  or  weak  or  powerful,  wise  or  simple, 
gentlemen  or  ladies,  but  literally  and  simply  as  im- 
mortal spirits,  absent  from  their  true  home,  and  seek- 
ing the  way  back  to  their  Fatherland.  He  thought 
none  so  pure  that  he  might  not  fall ;  none  so  degraded 
that  he  might  not  rise ;  and  he  always  preached  with 
the  feeling  that  the  salvation  of  souls  might  be  the 
consequence  of  th^e  truths  he  should  declare.  He 
sought  to  make  the  house  of  the  minister  common 
ground  for  humanity,  where  the  rich  and  the  poor 
might  meet  together,  as  representatives  of  the  Com- 
mon Image  of  Him  that  is  the  Maker  of  them  all. 
So  he  invited  the  whole  society  to  meet  him  Wednes- 
day evenings." 

"  We  made  no  preparation,  except  to  light  our  rooms,  and 
gave  no  entertainment  except  a  glass  of  water  to  those  who 
desired  it.  It  was  understood  that  all  should  come  in  their 
usual  dress;  that  those  who  were  so  disposed  might  wear 
their  bonnets,  and  that  from  seven  till  eleven  o'clock  in  the 
evening  all   should   come  and   go   as  they  pleased. 


FOLLEN  453 

"These    social    parties    were    eminently    successful;    in     fair 
weather    our    room    was    always    full,    and    even    when    it    was 
stormy   there   were   some   who   did   not   fail   to   come.     We   had 
the    pleasure    of    introducing    to    each    other    many    who    had 
found    the    divisions    of    the    pews    impassable    barriers    to    a 
friendly    acquaintance,    and    who    have    since    become    true    and 
warm     friends.     The    rich    in    worldly    goods,    they    who    were 
gifted  with  the  heavenly  dowry  of  genius,  the  artisan   and  the 
artist,  the   flattered    favorites   of   the   world,   and   its   poor   for- 
gotten   pilgrims,    the    homebound    conservative,    the    republican 
stranger    whose    home    was    the    world,    and    the    exiled    philan- 
thropist,   the    child    and    his    proud    grandparent,    the    learned 
and    the    unlearned,    the    grave    and    the    gay,    all    met    at    our 
house   and    passed   a    few    free    and    happy    hours    in    an    unre- 
strained   and     friendly    intercourse,    recognising    the    bond    of 
brotherhood     which     exists     between     the     members     of     God's 
human    family.     Few    things    ever    gave    Dr.    Follen    so    true    a 
pleasure   as  these  meetings,  not  merely  on  account  of  his   own 
actual    enjoyment    of    them,    but    as    they    established    the    fact 
that   such   social   meetings   were  practicable,    and   that   the   van- 
Itv,    and    expense,    and    precious    time    that    are    lavished    upon 
show    parties    are    not    necessary,    in    order    to    obtain    all    the 
higher    purposes    of    social    intercourse;    and    as    a    proof    that 
people    have   a    purer    and    better    taste   than   they    have    credit 
for.     It   was   also    a   high   gratification   to  his   republican   heart 
to  see  that  it  was  possible  to  do  away  some  of  those  arbitrary 
distinctions   in   society  which   prevent  the   highest   progress   and 
improvement  of  all.     One  of  these  Wednesday  evenings   a  lady 
was   present   who   belonged   to    a    family,   that   if    such   a   term 
could    be    used    without    absurdity    in    this    country,    might    be 
called    patrician,    but    who    had    herself    a    patent    of    nobility 
from  him  who  is  the  giver  of  all  things.     I  said  to  her,  "  That 
gentleman   who   has    just    sung   the    Scotch   song    so    well   is    a 
hair-dresser;  his  wife,  who  as  well  as  himself,  is  from  Scotland, 
and   who    has    been   talking   very    intelligently    of    Mr.   Combe's 
lectures,    which    she    attended   in  her   own   country    is    a    dress- 
maker.    That   highly   intelligent   woman,   who    has   held    a   most 
interesting   correspondence   with   my   husband   upon    some   theo- 
logical   questions,    is    a    watch-maker's    wife.     That    saintly    old 
lady  is  the  wife  of  a  man  who  makes  india-rubber  shoes,  etc., 
and  that  very  gentlemanly  and  agreeable  man  is  a  tailor."     "  I 
hope,"  she  replied,   "  that  the  time  will  come  when  such  things 
will    not    be    mentioned    as    extraordinary."     When    I    repeated 
this   to  my   husband,   after   the   company    were   gone,   "  That   is 
beautiful"  he  said,  with  his  face  radiant  with  joy.     He  never 


454  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

forgot  it ;  and  when  we  last  v/ent  to  New  York,  he  said,  "  We 
must  go  and  see  that  truly  republican  lady."  Dr.  Follen  often 
said  that  our  freedom  \\as  a  fact  rather  than  a  principle,  and 
that  nowhere  was  opinion  so  tyrannical  as  in  this  boasted  land 
of  liberty.  He  resolved,  in  his  ministry  in  New  York,  to  be 
truly  faithful  to  his  own  principles.  He  took  his  market- 
basket  daily  to  market,  and  brought  home  our  dinner  him- 
self. He  practised  the  strictest  economy,  that  he  might  have 
something  to  give  to  the  poor.  Mr.  Arnold  and  Mr.  Chan- 
ning,  who  had  been  the  ministers  to  the  poor,  had  both  left 
the  city.  Provisions  were  dear,  and  the  sufferings  of  the 
poor  were  severe;  Dr.  Follen  volunteered  his  services,  and 
devoted  all  his  leisure  to  this  difficult  and  painful  though  in- 
teresting duty.  His  labors  were  very  arduous;  the  poor  Ger- 
mans, when  they  knew  he  was  their  countryman,  beseiged  our 
door;  and  during  the  inclement  part  of  the  season  it  was 
seldom  that  we  took  any  meal  without  some  poor  sufferer 
waiting  till  it  'was  finished,  that  he  might  tell  his  sad  story 
and  receive  his  portion  of  our  frugal  repast.  Dr.  Follen's 
labors  among  the  poor  would  have  been  a  sufficient  employ- 
ment without  his  duties  in  his  parish  and  preaching  on  Sun- 
day, and  he  was  often  so  exhausted  that  I  feared  he  would 
lose  his  health  entirely;  but  he  felt  such  a  deep  interest,  such 
an  inspiring  joy  in  these  occupations  that  he  never  complained 
of  the  weariness  of  his  body." 

His  love  of  freedom,  and  his  practical  exhibition  of 

this  love  in  searching  for  the  grounds  of  religion,  gave 

him    an    interest    in   the    eyes    of    infidels,    men    whom 

worldliness  or  the  popular  theology  had  led  to  despise 

religion  itself.     In  the  course  of  sermons  he  preached 

on  infidelity  he  did  not  use  scorn  and  contempt ;  though 

these,  it   is  well  known,   are  the  consecrated  weapons 

too  often  used  by  the  pulpit  in  this  warfare. 

"  He  reveiwed  during  this  course  of  lectures  all  the  most 
celebrated  writers  and  theories  of  infidelity,  the  French  En- 
cyclopedists, Hobbes,  Hume,  Tom  Paine,  and  Fanny  Wright. 
He  vituperated  none,  he  sneered  at  none,  he  treated  them  all 
with  respect.  He  took  Paine's  '  Age  of  Reason '  into  the  pul- 
pit, and  read  an  eloquent  passage  from  it,  proving  that  he 
believed  in  God  and  in  the  immortality  of  the  soul,  and  simply 
stated  that  in  the  same  pages  were  to  be  found  the  grossest 
indecencies.     He  pointed  out  the  inconsistencies  of  unbelievers. 


FOLLEN  455 

the  false  grounds  of  their  arguments,  and  showed  that,  in 
spite  of  themselves,  they  could  not  get  rid  of  a  belief  in  im- 
mortality. He  then  showed  that  fair  and  free  inquiry  would 
lead  to  faith.  Christianity,  rightly  understood,  instead  of 
checking  free  inquiry,  invites  it  and  opens  to  it  an  infinite 
sphere. 

"  Christianity  is,"  he  said,  "  the  most  efficient  skepticism, 
when  directed  against  imposition  and  blind  credulity.  Chris- 
tianity is  the  deepest  science,  the  most  sublime  philosophy, 
adapted  to  the  capacity  of  a  little  child,  yet  transcending  the 
wisdom  of  the  wisest."  He  dwelt  most  eloquently  upon  the 
importance  to  the  cause  of  religion,  that  believers  should  have 
a  deep  and  well-grounded  faith  themselves  before  they  at- 
tempted to  convert  others.  "  Those  who  reject  Christianity 
because  of  its  supposed  inconsistency  with  nature,  experience, 
and  reason,  can  be  convinced  of  their  error  only  by  those 
who  have  embraced  it  because  of  its  perfect  agreement  with 
the  demands  of  reason,  the  teachings  of  experience,  and  the 
deepest  wants  of  human  nature.  The  atheist  in  his  pride  is 
more  imperfect  than  the  most  rude  and  confined  worshipper 
of  Deity;  for  the  former  wants  entirely  that  deepest  and  great- 
est efi'ort  of  the  mind,  of  which  the  other  possesses  at  least  a 
degree.  The  principles  of  man's  immortality  being  acknowledged 
in  the  New  Testament  ought  not  to  be  considered  a  check  to 
our  inquiry  whether  this  doctrine  has  any  other  foundation 
beside  that  evidence.  God  has  given  us  this  infinite  desire 
of  extending  our  knowledge  as  far  as  possible,  and  if  we  have 
not  made  this  use  of  our  endowments,  we  do  not  feel  assured 
that  there  are  no  reasons  for  doubting.  Many  think  that  call- 
ing in  question  the  truths  of  the  doctrines  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment is  a  kind  of  irreverence;  but  to  me  it  seems,  on  the 
contrary,  that  the  true  foundation  of  our  abiding  belief  in 
its  truth  is,  that  its  fundamental  doctrines  may  at  all  times 
be  put  to  the  test  of  fair  reasoning,  that  its  principles  are 
not  a  mere  matter  of  fact  and  history,  but  of  free  investiga- 
tion and  conviction.  The  Bible  gives  us  only  means  of  arriv- 
ing at  truth,  not  truth  itself,  I  believe  in  the  Bible  because 
the  Bible  believes  in  me.  I  find  the  law  and  the  prophets  in 
my  own  soul." 

We  know  not  the  result  of  these  lectures.  The  ef- 
fect of  a  sermon  no  man  can  tell.  He  who  preaches 
as  a  man  to  men  casts  a  seed  into  the  river  of  human 
life,  and  knows  not  on  what  shore  it  shall  be  cast  up, 


456  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

or  whether  the  waters  close,  cold  as  ever,  over  his  liv- 
ing word  and  quench  its  fiery  life.  But  can  it  be  that 
a  good  word  is  ever  spoken  in  vain?  Who  will  believe 
it?     The  last  time  Dr.  Follen  preached  in  New  York, 

"  He  spoke  affectionately,  as  a  brother  would  speak  to 
brethren  whom  his  heart  yearned  to  bless,  and  whom  he  was 
to  leave  for  ever.  After  service  he  remained  in  the  desk 
purposely  to  avoid  meeting  any  one,  for  his  heart  was  too  full 
to  speak  any  more.  When  he  came  down  to  meet  me,  thinking 
all  others  were  gone,  a  man  and  his  wife  came  forward,  who 
had  been  waiting  for  him.  The  man  took  his  hand  and  said, 
'  You  have,  sir,  during  your  ministry  here  changed  an  unhappy 
atheist -to  a  happy,  believing  Christian.  I  am  grieved  to  think 
that  I  shall  worship  no  more  with  you  in  this  church;  but  you 
have  given  me  the  hope  that  I  may  yet  worship  with  you  in 
a  higher,  a  heavenly  temple.'  Tears  ran  fast  down  his  and 
his  wife's  cheeks  as  he  uttered  these  words  and  pressed  Dr. 
Pollen's  hand  and  departed.  '  That,'  said  my  husband,  '  is  re- 
ward enough  for  all  my  toils  and  disappointments.' " 

He  did  not  fail  or  fear  to  acknowledge  goodness  and 
moral  purpose  in  a  philanthropist,  though  lacking 
the  strength  and  beauty  of  religion.  The  remarks  he 
made  on  Mr.  Darusmond,  "  the  husband  of  Frances 
Wright,"  ^  full  of  sadness  as  they  are,  may  well  be 
pondered  by  the  "  rigid  righteous." 

"  There  is  that  noble  old  man  spending  his  thoughts,  his 
time,  and  his  money,  for  what  he  considers  the  highest  good 
of  his  fellow  men,  with  a  youthful  devotedness  and  enthus- 
iasm of  benevolence,  carrying  in  his  heart  the  evidences  of 
his  immortality,  and  yet  tenacious  of  the  belief  that  he  and  his 
beautiful  child,  and  all  that  he  loves  best  in  the  world,  and 
all  his  generous  and  exalted  purposes  and  hopes  are  but  a  part 
of  the  dust  he  treads  on.  What  a  lesson  does  his  magnanimous 
love  for  his  fellow-beings  teach  to  the  multitudes  of  the  cold, 
calculating  men  and  women  we  see,  who  take  the  name  of 
him  who  was  the  first  and  greatest  of  all  philanthropists,  and 
who  call  him  an  infidel,  and  are  eager  to  condemn  him." 

There  are  some  things  in  this  book  on  which  we  do 
not  feel  competent  to  decide,  and  therefore  shall  hold 


FOLLEN  457 

our  peace ;  many  others  on  which  we  should  gladly 
dwell,  did  time  and  space  permit.  But  there  is  one 
trait  of  his  character  on  which  we  would  dwell,  this  is, 
his  hopeful  resignation.  His  disappointments,  what- 
ever was  their  cause,  did  not  sour  his  temper,  nor  make 
him  less  sanguine  for  the  future,  not  less  confident  of 
his  own  conviction  of  right.  He  did  not  complain  in 
adversity ;  and  when  persecuted  for  righteousness'  sake, 
took  it  patiently,  and  went  on  his  way  rejoicing.  We 
do  not  say  that  traces  of  indignation  could  not  be 
found  in  the  fair  chronicle  of  this  biography  —  in- 
dignation that  is  not  Christian,  as  we  think.  But  let  a 
candid,  yes,  an  uncandid  reader  search  for  these  traces, 
and  he  will  marvel  that  they  are  so  rare.  A  friend 
said  he  was  "  a  Christian  up  to  the  arms,  the  heart 
Christian,  the  arms  somewhat  violent,  and  the  head 
directed  to  the  outward  world."     When  disappointed, 

"  He  turned  directly  to  some  present  duty,  or  he  talked 
with  his  friends  of  the  future,  which  he  still  trusted  had  some 
unlooked-for  good  in  store  for  him.  His  near  friends  were 
in  the  habit  of  rallying  him  upon  his  sanguine  anticipations, 
and  this  even  after  their  failure,  might  have  produced  some 
sensitiveness  upon  the  subject;  but  how  sweetly  did  he  join  in 
the  laugh  at  his  own  confiding  credulity,  that  led  him  to 
measure  the  good  he  expected  from  others,  not  by  the  his- 
tory of  his  own  experience,  but  by  the  overflowing  bounty  of 
his  own  heart.  One  instance  of  this  I  cannot  resist  relating. 
One  New  Year's  day  I  observed  him,  in  the  morning,  putting 
away  some  books  that  he  usually  kept  on  his  study  table,  and 
apparenth^  making  room  for  something.  I  asked  him  what 
he  was  preparing  for.  '  I  am  making  room  on  my  table  for 
our  New  Year's  presents,'  he  replied.  I  smiled.  '  I  see,'  he 
said,  '  that  you  do  not  expect  any,  but  I  do.'  I  was  right ;  we 
had  not  a  single  New  i  ear's  gift,  but  his  unfeigned  merri- 
ment at  his  ungrounded  hopes,  and  the  many  hearty  laughs 
which  the  remembrance  of  his  mistake,  when  like  disappoint- 
ments in  more  important  affairs  befel  us,  proved  that  he 
possessed  that  which  made  such  things  of  little  importance.  No 
one  thought  less  of  the  intrinsic  value,  or  rather  of  the  market 


458  THE  AiMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

price,  of  a  gift  from  a  friend  than  he;  and  no  one  that  I 
ever  knew  thought  more  of  the  active  love  that  prompted  such 
testimonials  of  aflFection;  he  was  truly  child-like  in  these 
things. 

"  We  practised,  necessarilj^,  this  winter,  the  strictest  econ- 
omy. Through  mud,  and  cold,  and  storms.  Dr.  Follen  walked 
out  seven  miles  to  the  church  where  he  was  engaged  to  preach. 
Far  from  uttering  a  complaint  at  the  cold  or  fatigue  or  in- 
convenience, which  he  occasionally  had  to  endure,  he  always 
returned  home  with  a  smile  upon  his  face,  that  seemed  to  say, 
'  I  have  been  about  my  Father's  business.'  Never  did  he  once 
say,  I  wish  I  had  a  chaise;  and  when  I  urged  him  in  bad 
weather  to  take  one,  he  always  answered,  '  I  like  walking  bet- 
ter; having  no  horse  to  take  care  of  I  have  my  mind  free, 
and  I  often  compose  my  sermons  on  the  way.' " 

"  Dr.  Follen  occasionally,  at  these  times,  but  not  often,  al- 
luded to  the  fact  that  his  whole  life,  as  it  regarded  worldly 
success,  had  been  a  series  of  failures,  never  with  any  bitter- 
ness, seldom  with  anything  like  despondency.  '  Had  I  been 
willing,'  he  has  said,  '  to  lower  my  standard  of  right,  the 
world  would  have  been  with  me,  and  I  might  have  obtained 
its  favor.  I  have  been  faithful  to  principle  under  all  circum- 
stances, and  I  had  rather  fail  so  than  succeed  in  another  way; 
besides,  I  shall  do  something  yet;  I  am  not  discouraged,  and 
we  are  happy  in  spite  of  all  things.'  He  was,  however,  very 
weary  of  the  continual  changes  we  had  made,  and  more  es- 
pecially of  a  continual  change  of  place;  he  longed  for  a  more 
permanent   local   home." 

One  winter  he  attempted  a  course  of  lectures  in  Bos- 
ton, on  Switzerland.  But  few  came  to  hear  it,  not 
enough  to  defray  the  expenses. 

"  On  one  day  only  I  saw  him  stop  from  his  writing,  and  rest 
his  head  between  his  hands  for  a  long  time  upon  his  paper. 
'  What  is  the  matter  ? '  I  asked.  '  I  find  it  very  hard  to  write 
with  spirit  under  such  circumstances,'  he  replied.  We  always 
returned  to  Lexington  on  the  evening  of  the  lecture.  It  was 
a  long  way,  the  road  was  hea\y,  and  the  weather  was  cold; 
and  it  was  dark  and  often  very  late  when  we  got  home. 
Usually  he  was  so  full  of  lively  conversation,  that  it  seemed 
neither  long  nor  dull ;  but  one  night  he  was  very  silent.  '  Why,' 
I  asked,  '  are  you  so  silent  to-night  ? '  '  I  do  feel  this  disap- 
pointment,' lie  replied;  'it  shows  mc  how  little  I  have  to  hope 
from   public    favor   in    Boston.'     '  Perhaps,'    I    said,    '  you   have 


FOLLEN  459 

made  a  mistake  in  your  subject.  People  now-a-days  prefer 
speculations  to  facts;  let  us  consider  this  merely  as  a  mode, 
not  very  expensive,  of  seeing  our  friends  once  a  week;  it  is 
not,  after  all,  a  costly  pleasure.  Your  history  of  Switzerland 
will  be  written  and  will  be  a  valuable  possession.'  '  That  is 
right,'  he  replied;  'it  shall  be  so;  henceforward  we  will  look 
at  it  as  a  pleasant  visit  to  our  friends;  it  is  a  good  thing  for 
me  to  have  this  course  of  lectures  written,  they  will  yet  be  of 
use  to  me,  and  it  is  pleasant  to  see  our  friends  once  a  week.' " 

But  we  must  bring  our  paper  to  an  end.  Yet, 
not  without  noticing  his  love  of  the  beautiful.  "  Na- 
ture was  a  perpetual  joy  to  him." 

"  His  love  of  the  beautiful  was  intense,  in  its  most  humble 
as  well  as  sublime  manifestations.  I  have  seen  him  gaze  at 
the  wings  of  an  insect  till,  I  am  sure,  he  must  have  committed 
all  its  exquisite  coloring  and  curious  workmanship  to  memory. 
One  Sunday,  when  he  had  walked  far  into  the  country  to 
preach,  he  was  requested  to  address  the  children  of  the  Sun- 
day school.  He  gave  them  an  account  of  a  blue  dragon-fly 
that  he  had  seen  on  his  way.  He  described  it,  with  the  clear 
blue  sky  shining  through  its  thin  gauzy  wings,  and  its  airy 
form  reflected  in  the  still  pure  water  over  which  it  hovered, 
looking  doubtful  whether  to  stay  here  or  return  to  the  heavens 
from  whence  it  apparently  came.  He  sought,  by  interesting 
the  children  in  its  beauty,  to  awaken  feelings  of  admiration 
and  love  towards  all  the  creatures  that  God  has  made." 

We  must  come  to  the  last  scene  of  his  life.  He  left 
New  York  to  go  to  Lexington  and  preach  the  dedica- 
tion sermon  in  the  new  church  built  there  after  a  plan 
of  his  own,  the  church  he  hoped  should  be  the  scene  of 
his  future  labors.  He  had  prepared  a  part  of  the  dis- 
course to  be  delivered  on  the  occasion.  He  read  this  to 
his  wife,  and  added : 

" '  I  shall  explain  to  the  people  the  meaning  and  use  of  sym- 
bols in  general,  and  then  explain  the  meaning  of  those  carved 
on  the  pupit.'  These  were  of  his  own  designing,  and  were  a 
candlestick,  a  communion  cup,  a  crown  of  thorns,  a  wreath  of 
stars,  and  in  the  centre  a  cross.  '  I  shall  not  write  this  part 
of  my  sermon,'  said  he,  '  but  I  will  tell  you  what  I  shall  say, 


460  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

and  that  will  make  it  easier  when  I  shall  speak  to  the  people. 
I  shall  tell  them  that  the  candlestick  is  a  symbol  of  the  light 
which  should  emanate  from  the  Christian  pulpit,  and  from  the 
life  of  every  individual  Christian.  The  crown  of  thorns  is  a 
representation  of  the  trials  and  sufferings  which  the  faithful 
Christian  has  to  endure  for  conscience'  sake.  The  cup  signi- 
fies that  spiritual  communion  which  we  should  share  with  all 
our  brethren  of  mankind,  and  that  readiness  to  drink  the 
bitter  cup  of  suffering  for  their  sake,  and  for  conscience'  sake, 
which  he  manifested  who  offered  it  to  his  disciples  before  he 
was  betrayed.  The  cross  is  a  type  of  him  who  gave  his  life 
for  us  all,  and  whose  example  we  must  stand  ready  to  follow, 
even  though  it  lead  to  death.  The  circle  of  stars  represents 
the  wreath  of  eternal  glory  and  happiness  which  awaits  the 
faithful  soul  in  the  presence  of  God.' " 

The  simple  words  of  his  biographer  best  describe  his 

departure : 

"  He  arranged  his  papers  against  his  return.  He  was  going 
to  take  his  lectures  of  German  literature  with  him,  but  I  urged 
him  to  leave  them  with  me,  to  be  put  in  my  trunk,  where  they 
would  be  kept  in  better  order.  He  made  a  little  memorandum 
of  what  he  had  to  do  when  he  returned.  One  article  Avas  to  get 
the  '  Selections  from  Fenelon '  reprinted ;  the  next,  to  inquire 
about  a  poor  German,  who  was  an  exile,  and  a  sufferer  for 
freedom's  sake.  The  last  was  to  get  a  New  Year's  gift  for 
a  poor  little  girl  whom  he  had  taken  to  live  with  us.  Just  as 
I  left  the  door  at  Lexington  I  told  this  child  that  if  she  was 
a  good  girl  I  would  bring  her  a  New  Year's  gift  from  New 
York.  Dr.  Follen  overheard  me,  I  never  spoke  of  it  to  him. 
My  illness  and  anxiety  had  put  it  out  of  my  head,  but  he  re- 
membered it.  As  he  put  his  sermon  in  his  pocket,  he  said, 
•I  shall  not  go  to  bed,  but  devote  the  night  to  my  sermon; 
I  want  to  make  something  of  it  that  is  worth  hearing.'  He 
gave  Charles  some  money,  and  told  him  to  go  presently  and 
get  some  grapes  for  me  at  a  shop  where  he  found  some  very 
fine  ones.  '  They  are  good  for  your  mother,'  he  said,  '  and 
you  must  keep  her  supplied  till  my  return.'  '  Be  of  good 
courage  till  you  see  me  again,'  he  said  to  me  as  he  took  leave 
of  me.  '  Be  a  good  boy,  and  obey  your  mother  till  I  come 
back  again,'  Avere  his  words  to  Charles,  as  he  took  him  in  his 
arms,  and  kissed  him." 

The  partner  of  his  joys,  the  prime  cheerer  of  his 
sorrows,   has   built   up   a   beautiful   monument   to   his 


FOLLEN  461 

character.  How  beautifully  she  has  done  her  work ; 
with  what  suppression  of  anguish  for  shattered  hopes, 
and  buds  of  promise  never  opening  on  earth,  we  have 
not  words  to  tell.  But  the  calmness  with  which  the 
tale  is  told,  the  absence  of  panegyric,  the  sublime  trust 
in  the  great  principles  of  religion,  apparent  from  end 
to  end  of  this  heart-touching  record  of  trials  borne 
and  ended  —  these  show  that  she  likewise  drank  at 
that  fountain  whence  he  derived  his  strength  and  joy. 
We  would  gladly  say  more,  but  delicacy  forbids  us  to 
dwell  on  the  mortal.  Let  us  pass  again  to  him  who 
has  put  off  this  earthly  shroud. 

This  record  of  life  is  to  us  a  most  hopeful  book.  It 
shows  a  man  true  to  truth,  an  upright  man  whom 
fame  and  fortune  could  not  bribe,  whom  the  menace  of 
monarchs  and  the  oppression  of  poverty  could  never 
swerve  from  the  path  of  duty.  Disappointment  at- 
tended his  steps,  but  never  conquered  his  spirit  nor 
abated  his  hope.  He  had  the  consolations  of  religion, 
that  gave  him  strength  which  neither  the  monarchs, 
nor  poverty,  nor  disappointment,  nor  the  neglect  of 
the  world,  nor  the  attacks  of  men  narrow-minded  and 
chained  down  to  bigotry  could  ever  take  from  him. 
How  beautifully  he  bears  his  trials.  In  the  balance  of 
adversity  God  weighs  choice  spirits.  In  the  hour  of 
trial  he  gives  them  meat  to  eat  which  the  world  knows 
not  of.  But  Dr.  FoUen  did  not  stand  alone.  Not  to 
name  others,  there  was  one  brave  soul  in  a  pulpit  whose 
counsel  and  sympathy  gave  new  warmth  to  his  heart, 
new  energy  to  his  resolution ;  one  like  himself,  whom 
fear  could  not  make  afraid.®  They  rest  from  their  la- 
bors. The  good  they  have  done  shall  live  after  them; 
the  kind  words  they  spoke,  the  pure  lives  they  lived, 
shall   go  up  as   a   testimonial  to   him   that   liveth  for 


462  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ever ;  their  example  kindles  the  fire  in  earnest  hearts 
on  earth,  a  light  that  never  dies.  Dr.  FoUen  was 
fortunate  in  his  life.  Talents  God  gave  him,  and  an 
occasion  to  use  them ;  defeat  gave  him  courage,  not 
dismay.     Deep,  rich  blessings  fell  on  him. 

"Large  was  his  bounty,  and  his  soul  sincere; 
Heaven  did  a  recompense  as  largely  send; 
He  gave  to  misery  all  he  had,  a  tear; 

He   gained   from   Heaven  — 'twas   all  he  wished  — 
a  Friend." 


GERIMAN  LITERATURE 

Opinions  are  divided  respecting  German  literature. 
If  we  are  to  believe  what  is  currently  reported  and 
generally  credited,  there  is,  somewhere  in  New  Eng- 
land, a  faction  of  discontented  men  and  maidens  who 
have  conspired  to  love  everything  Teutonic,  from 
Dutch  skates  to  German  infidelity.  It  is  supposed,  at 
least  asserted,  that  these  misguided  persons  would  fain 
banish  all  other  literature  clean  out  of  space ;  or  at 
the  very  least  would  give  it  precedence  of  all  other 
letters,  ancient  or  modern.  Whatever  is  German,  they 
admire ;  philosoph}'^,  dramas,  theology,  novels,  old 
ballads,  and  modern  sonnets ;  histories,  and  disserta- 
tions, and  sermons ;  but  above  all,  the  immoral  and 
irreligious  writings  which  it  is  supposed  the  Germans 
are  chiefly  engaged  in  writing,  with  the  generous  in- 
tention of  corrupting  the  youth  of  the  world,  restoring 
the  worship  of  Priapus  or  Pan  or  the  Pope, —  it  is  not 
decided  w^hich  is  to  receive  the  honor  of  universal 
homage, —  and  thus  gradually  preparing  for  the 
kingdom  of  misrule,  and  the  domination  of  chaos  and 
"  most  ancient  Night."  It  is  often  charitably  taken 
for  granted  that  the  lovers  of  German  works  on  philos- 
ophy and  art  amongst  us  are  moved  thereto,  either 
by  a  disinterested  love  of  whatever  is  German,  or  else, 
which  is  the  more  likely,  by  a  disinterested  love  of  evil, 
and  the  instigation  of  the  devil,  who,  it  is  gravely 
said,  has  actually  inspired  several  of  the  most  esteemed 
writers    of  that   nation.      This    German    epidemic,   we 

463 


464  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR  ^ 

are  told,  extends  very  wide.  It  has  entered  the  board- 
ing-schools for  young  misses  of  either  sex,  and  com- 
mitted the  most  frightful  ravages  therein.  We  have 
been  apprised  that  it  has  sometimes  seized  upon  a 
College,  nay,  on  Universities,  and  both  the  Faculty  and 
the  Corporation  have  exhibited  symptoms  of  the  fatal 
disease.     Colleges,  did  we  say.? 

"  No  place  is  sacred,  not  the  church  is  free." 

It  has  attacked  clergymen  in  silk  and  in  lawn.     The 
Doctors  of  Divinity  fall  before  it.     It  is  thought  that 

"  Fever  and  ague,  j  aundice  and  catarrh, 
The   grim-looked  tyrant's  heavy  horse  of  war. 
And  apoplexies,  those  light  troops  of  death. 
That  use  small  ceremony  with  our  breath," 

are  all  nothing  to  the  German  epidemic.  We  meet  men 
with  umbrellas  and  over-shoes,  men  "  shawled  to  the 
teeth,"  and  suppose  they  are  prudent  persons  who  have 
put  on  armor  against  this  subtle  foe.  Histories  of 
this  plague,  as  of  the  cholera,  have  been  written ;  the 
public  has  often  been  called  to  defend  itself  from  the 
enemy,  and  quarantine  regulations  are  put  in  force 
against  all  suspected  of  the  infection.  In  short,  the 
prudent  men  of  the  land,  men  wise  to  foresee  and 
curious  to  prevent  evil,  have  not  failed  to  advise  the 
public  from  time  to  time  of  the  danger  that  is  im- 
minent, and  to  recommend  certain  talismans  as  effect- 
ual safeguards.  We  think  a  copy  of  the  "  Westmin- 
ister Catechism,"  or  the  "  Confessions  of  Faith  adopted 
by  the  Council  of  Trent,"  or  the  "  Athanasian  Creed," 
perhaps,  if  hung  about  the  neck,  and  worn  next  the 
skin,  might  save  little  children,  and  perhaps  girls  nearly 
grown  up,  especially  if  they  read  these  amulets  every 
morning  fasting.    But  a  more  important  specific  has 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  465 

occurred  to  us,  which  we  have  never  known  to  fail,  and 
it  has  been  tried  in  a  great  many  cases,  in  both  hemis- 
pheres. The  remedy  is  simple ;  it  is  a  strong  infu- 
sion of  dulness.  Continued  applications  of  this  ex- 
cellent nostrum  will  save  any  person,  we  think,  from  all 
but  very  slight  attacks  of  this  epidemic.  Certainly, 
it  will  secure  the  patient  from  the  worst  form  of  the 
disease, —  the  philosophical  frenzy  which  it  is  said 
prevails  in  colleges  and  among  young  damsels,  but 
which,  we  think,  does  not  attack  the  pulpit.  The 
other  forms  of  the  malady  are  mainly  cutaneous,  and 
easily  guarded  against. 

It  has  often  been  matter  of  astonishment  to  us  that 
the  guardians  of  the  public  welfare  did  not  discover 
German  literature  when  it  first  set  foot  in  America, 
and  thrust  it  back  into  the  ocean ;  and  we  can  only 
account  for  the  fact  of  its  extension  here  from  the 
greater  activity  of  evil  in  general.  "  Rank  weeds  do 
grow  apace."  So  this  evil  has  grown  up  in  the  ab- 
sence of  our  guardians,  as  the  golden  calf  was  made 
while  Moses  was  in  the  mount  fasting.  While  the 
young  men  and  maidens  have  been  eating  the  German 
lotus  the  guardians  of  the  public  weal  have  been 
"  talking,  or  pursuing,  or  journeying,  or  peradventure 
they  slept,  and  must  needs  be  awaked."  However  this 
may  be,  they  are  now  awake,  and  in  full  cry. 

Now,  for  our  own  part,  we  have  never  yet  fallen  in 
with  any  of  these  dangerous  persons  who  have  this 
exaggerated  admiration  of  whatever  is  Teutonic,  still 
less  this  desire  to  overthrow  morality,  and  turn  reli- 
gion out  of  the  world.  This  fact  may  be  taken  as 
presumptive  evidence  of  blindness  on  our  part,  if  men 
will.     We    sometimes,    indeed,    meet    with    men,    and 

women  also,  well  read  in  this  obnoxious  literature;  thej 
11—30 


466  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

are  mostly, —  yes,  without  a  single  exception,  as  we 
remember, —  unoffending  persons.  They  "  gang  their 
ain  gait,"  and  leave  others  the  same  freedom.  They 
have  tastes  of  their  own,  scholarly  habits ;  some  of  them 
are  possessed  of  talent,  and  no  contemptible  erudition, 
judging  by  the  New  England  standard.  They  honor 
what  they  find  good  and  to  their  taste,  in  German 
literature  as  elsewhere.  Men  and  women,  some  of  them 
are,  who  do  not  think  all  intellectual  and  esthetic  ex- 
cellence is  contained  in  a  hundred  volumes  of  Greek 
and  Roman  authors,  profound  and  beautiful  as  they 
are.  They  study  German  philosophy,  theology,  criti- 
cism, and  literature  in  general,  as  they  would  the  sim- 
ilar works  of  any  nation,  for  the  good  they  contain. 
This,  we  think,  is  not  forbidden  by  the  Revised  Stat- 
utes, or  any  other  universal  standard  of  right  and 
wrong.  Why  should  not  a  man  study  even  Sanscrit 
philosophy  if  he  will,  and  profit  by  it  in  peace,  if  he 
can.f^  We  do  not  say  there  are  no  enthusiastic  or 
fanatical  admirers  of  this  literature ;  nor,  that  there 
are  none  who  "  go  too  far  "  in  their  admiration, — 
which  means,  in  plain  English,  farther  than  their  critic, 
—  but  that  such  persons  are  by  no  means  common,  so 
that  there  seems,  really,  very  small  cause  for  the  panic 
into  which  some  good  people  have  seen  fit  to  fall.  We 
doubt  the  existence,  therefore,  of  this  reputed  faction 
of  men  and  maidens  who  design  to  reinstate  confusion 
on  her  throne. 

But  on  the  other  hand,  we  are  told  —  and  partly  be- 
lieve it  ■ —  that  there  is  a  party  of  cool-headed,  discreet, 
moderate,  sound,  and  very  respectable  persons,  who 
hate  German  literature.  Of  these  we  can  speak  from 
knowledge.  Most  men  have  heard  of  them,  for  they 
have  cried  out  like  Bluebeard  in  the  tale,  "  till  all  shook 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  467 

again."  They  are  plenty  as  acorns  in  autumn,  and 
may  be  had  for  the  asking.  This  party  has,  to  speak 
gently,  a  strong  dislike  to  German  literature,  philos- 
ophy, and  theology.  Sometimes  this  dislike  is  founded 
on  a  knowledge  of  facts,  an  acquaintance  with  the 
subject,  in  which  case  no  one  will  find  fault;  but  far 
oftener  it  rests  merely  on  prejudice, —  on  the  most 
utter  ignorance  of  the  whole  matter.  Respecting  this 
latter  class  of  hiaters  without  knowledge,  we  have  a  few 
words  to  say.  We  have  somewhere  seen  it  written, 
"  He  that  answereth  a  matter  before  he  heareth  it, 
it  is  a  folly  and  shame  unto  him."  We  commend  it 
to  the  attention  of  these  judges.  They  criticize  Ger- 
man literature  by  wholesale  and  retail  —  to  adopt  the 
ingenious  distinction  of  Dr.  Watts.  They  issue  their 
writs,  and  have  the  shadow  of  some  poor  German 
brought  into  the  court  of  their  greatness,  and  pass 
sentence  with  the  most  speedy  justice,  never  examin- 
ing the  evidence,  nor  asking  a  question,  nor  permitting 
the  prisoner  at  the  bar  to  say  a  word  for  himself  till 
the  w^hole  matter  is  disposed  of.  Before  this  honorable 
bench  Goethe,  and  Schleiermacher,  and  Schiller,  and 
Arndt,  and  Kant,  and  Leibnitz,  Henry  Heine  ^  and 
Jacob  Bohme,  Schelling  of  universal  renown,  and 
Schefer  of  Muskau  in  Neider-Lausitz,  and  Hegel,  and 
Strauss,  with  their  aids  and  abettors,  are  brought  up 
and  condemned  as  mystics,  infidels,  or  pantheists ;  in 
one  word,  as  Germans.  Thus  the  matter  is  disposed 
of  by  the  honorable  court.  Now  we  would  not  protest 
against  this  method  of  proceeding,  ancient  as  it  is,  and 
supported  by  precedents  from  the  time  of  Jethro  to 
General  Jackson.  Such  a  protest  would  be  "  a  dan- 
gerous innovation,"  no  doubt.  We  would  have  no  ex- 
ceptions  from  the   general  method  made  in  favor  of 


468  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

German  letters.  No  literature  was  ever  written  into 
more  than  temporary  notice,  and  certainly  none  was 
ever  written  down.  German  literature  amongst  us 
encounters  just  the  same  treatment  the  classic  authors 
received  at  the  hands  of  the  middle  ages.  When  those 
old  sages  and  saints  began  to  start  out  of  the  corners 
where  night  had  overtaken  them,  men  were  alarmed 
at  their  strange  faces  and  antique  beards  and  myste- 
rious words.  "  What !  "  said  they,  as  they  gaped  on 
one  another,  in  the  parlor,  the  court,  the  camp,  or  the 
church,  with  terror  in  their  faces, — "  What !  study 
Greek  and  Roman  letters.?  Greek  and  Roman  philos- 
ophy.'' Shall  we  men  of  the  tenth  century  study  au- 
thors who  lived  two  thousand  years  ago,  in  an  age  of 
darkness  ?  Shame  on  the  thought !  Shall  we  who  are 
Christians,  and  live  in  an  age  of  light,  look  for  in- 
struction to  Plato,  Aristotle,  Cicero,  or  Seneca  —  men 
from  dark  pagan  times  ?  It  were  preposterous ! 
Let  such  works  perish,  or  sink  back  to  their  original 
night."  *  So  it  goes  with  us ;  and  it  is  said,  "  Shall 
we  Americans,  excellent  Christians  as  we  are,  who  live 
in  a  land  of  education,  of  righteousness,  of  religion, 
and  know  how  to  reconcile  it  all  with  our  three  millions 
of  slaves ;  in  the  land  of  steamboats  and  railroads ;  we 
Americans,  possessed  of  all  needed  intelligence  and  cul- 
ture,—  shall  we  read  the  books  of  the  Germans,  infidels 

*  The  following  anecdote  is  quite  to  the  point.  One  day, 
in  the  year  1530,  a  French  monk  said  in  the  pulpit,  "  a  new  lan- 
guage has  been  discovered,  which  is  called  Greek.  You  must 
take  good  heed,  and  keep  out  of  its  way.  This  language  en- 
genders all  heresies,  1  see  in  the  hands  of  many,  a  book 
written  in  this  language.  It  is  called  the  New  Testament. 
It  is  a  book  full  of  thorns  and  vipers.  As  for  the  Hebrew 
language,  all  who  study  that  become  Jewc  immediately." — 
Sismondi,  Histoire  des  Frangaise,  T.  XVI.  p.  364,  cited  in 
Michelet's   Hist.   Luther. 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  469 

as  they  are  —  Germans,  who  dwell  in  the  clouds,  and 
are  only  fitted  by  divine  grace  to  smoke  tobacco  and 
make  dictionaries?     Out  upon  the  thought!" 

No  doubt  this  decision  is  quite  as  wise  as  that  pro- 
nounced so  gravely  by  conservatives  and  alarmists  of 
the  middle  ages.  "  Would  3'ou  have  me  try  the  crim- 
inal before  I  pass  sentence?  "  said  the  Turkish  justice; 
"  that  were  a  waste  of  words  and  time,  for  if  I  should 
condemn  him  after  examination,  why  not  before,  and 
so  save  the  trouble  of  looking  into  the  matter?  "  Cer- 
tainly the  magistrate  was  wuse,  and  wherever  justice 
is  thus  administered  the  traditional  complaint  of  the 
"  law's  delay  "  will  never  dare  lift  up  its  voice.  Honor 
to  the  Turkish  judge  and  his  swift  decision;  long  may 
it  be  applied  to  German  literature.  Certainly  it  is 
better  that  ninety-and-nine  innocent  persons  should 
suffer  outrageous  torture  than  that  one  guilty  should 
escape.  Why  should  not  public  opinion  lay  an  em- 
bargo on  German  works  as  on  India  crackers,  or  for- 
bid their  sale?  Certainly  it  costs  more  labor  to  read 
them  than  the  many  excellent  books  in  the  mother 
tongue.  No  doubt  a  ready  reader  would  go  over  the 
whole  ninety-eight  volumes  of  Sir  Walter  Scott  in  less 
time  than  he  could  plod  through  and  master  the  single 
obstinate  book  of  Kant's  Kritik  of  the  Pure  Reason. 
Stewart,  and  Brown,  and  Reid,  and  Palej-,  and  Thomas 
Dick,  and  Abercrombie,  are  quite  easy  reading.  They 
trouble  no  man's  digestion,  though  he  read  them  after 
dinner,  with  his  feet  on  the  fender.  Are  not  these 
writers,  with  their  illustrious  progenitors,  successors, 
and  coadjutors,  sufficient  for  all  practical  purposes? 
Why,  then,  allow  our  studious  youth  in  colleges  and 
log-cabins  to  pore  over  Leibnitz  and  Hegel  till  they 
think  themselves  blind,  and  the  red  rose  yields  to  the 
white  on  their  cheek? 


470  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

In  the  name  of  good  sense,  we  would  ask  if  English 
literature,  with  the  additions  of  American  genius,  is 
not  rich  enough  without  our  going  to  the  Hercynian 
forest,  where  the  scholars  do  not  think  but  only  dream? 
Not  to  mention  Milton,  and  Shakespeare,  and  Bacon, — 
names  confessedly  without  parallel  in  the  history  of 
thought, —  have  we  not  surpassed  the  rest  of  the  world 
in  each  department  of  science,  literature,  philosophy, 
and  theology?  Whence  comes  the  noble  array  of  scien- 
tific works  that  connect  general  laws  with  single  facts, 
and  reveal  the  mysteries  of  nature?  Whence  come  the 
most  excellent  works  in  poetry,  criticism,  and  art? 
Whence  the  profound  treatises  on  ethics  and  meta- 
physics? Whence  the  deep  and  wide  volumes  of  the- 
ology, the  queen  of  all  sciences?  Whence  come  works 
on  the  classics  of  Greece  and  Rome?  Whence  histories 
of  all  the  chief  concerns  of  man?  Do'  they  not  all 
come,  in  this  age,  from  England  and  our  own  bosom? 
What  need  have  we  of  asking  favors  from  the  Ger- 
mans, or  of  studying  their  literature?  As  the  mid- 
dle-age monks  said  of  the  classics, —  Anathema  sit.  It 
is  certainly  right  that  the  ghost  of  terror,  like  Mr. 
Littlefaith  in  the  story,  should  cross  itself  in  presence 
of  such  a  spirit,  and  utter  its  Apage  Sathanas.  Such 
an  anathema  would,  no  doubt,  crush  the  Monadnoc  — 
or  a  sugar-plum. 

But  let  us  come  out  of  this  high  court  of  Turkish 
justice,  and  for  a  moment  look  German  literature  in 
the  face,  and  allow  it  to  speak  for  itself.  To  our  ap- 
prehension, German  literature  is  the  fairest,  the  rich- 
est, the  most  original,  fresh  and  religious  literature 
of  all  modern  times.  We  say  this  advisedly.  We  do 
not  mean  to  say  Germany  has  produced  the  greatest 
poetic  genius  of  all  modern  times.     It  has  no  Shake- 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  471 

speare,  as  the  world  has  but  one  in  whom  the  poetic 
spirit  seems  to  cuhninate,  though  it  will  doubtless  rise 
higher  in  better  ages.  But  we  sometimes  hear  it  said, 
admitting  the  excellence  of  two  or  three  German 
writers,  yet  their  literature  is  narrow,  superficial  and 
poor,  when  compared  with  that  of  England.  Let  us 
look  at  the  facts,  and  compare  the  two  in  some  points. 
Classical  taste  and  culture  have  long  been  the  boast 
of  England.  There  is  a  wealth  of  classical  allusion 
in  her  best  writers,  which  has  an  inexpressible  charm, 
and  forms  the  chief  minor  grace  in  many  a  work  of 
poetic  art.  Classical  culture  is  the  pride,  we  take  it, 
of  her  two  "  ancient  and  honorable  universities,"  and 
their  spirit  prevails  everywhere  in  the  island.  The 
English  scholar  is  proud  of  his  "  quantity,"  and  the 
correctness  of  his  quotations  from  Seneca  and  Demos- 
thenes. But  from  what  country  do  we  get  editions 
of  the  classics  that  are  Avorth  the  reading,  in  which 
modern  science  and  art  are  brought  to  bear  on  the  an- 
cient text  ?  What  country  nurtures  the  men  that  illus- 
trate Homer,  Herodotus,  the  Anthology  of  Planudes, 
and  the  dramatic  poets  .^  Who  explain  for  us  the  an- 
tiquities of  Athens,  and  write  minute  treatises  on  the 
law  of  inheritance,  the  castes,  tribes,  and  manners  of 
the  men  of  Attica?  Who  collect  all  the  necessary 
facts,  and  reproduce  the  ideas  lived  out,  consciously 
or  unconsciously,  on  the  banks  of  the  Eurotas,  the 
Nile,  or  the  Alpheus.'^  Wh}^,  the  Germans.  We  do 
not  hesitate  to  say,  that  in  the  present  century  not  a 
Greek  or  a  Roman  classic  has  been  tolerably  edited  in 
England,  except  through  the  aid  of  some  German 
scholar.  The  costly  editions  of  Greek  authors  that 
come  to  us  from  Oxford  and  London,  beautiful  reprints 
of  Plato,  Aristotle,  Aristophanes,  Euripides,  Sophocles, 


472  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

^schylus,  Herodotus,  the  Attic  orators,  and  Plotinus 
—  all  these  are  the  work  of  German  erudition,  German 
toil,  German  genius  sometimes.  The  wealthy  island- 
ers, proud  of  their  classic  culture,  furnish  white  paper 
and  luminous  type ;  but  the  curious  diligence  that  never 
tires,  the  profound  knowledge  and  philosophy  which 
brings  the  whole  light  of  Grecian  genius  to  illuminate 
a  single  point, —  all  this  is  German,  and  German  solely. 
Did  it  not  happen  within  ten  years  that  the  translation 
of  a  German  work  containing  some  passages  in  Greek, 
incorrectly  pointed  in  the  original  edition,  and,  there- 
fore, severely  censured  at  home,  was  about  being  pub- 
lished in  Edinburgh,  and  no  man  could  be  found  in  the 
Athens  of  the  North,  and  "  no  man  in  all  Scotland," 
who  could  correctly  accent  the  Greek  words?  The 
fact  must  be  confessed.  So  the  book  was  sent  to  its 
author, —  a  Professor  of  Theology, —  and  he  put  it 
into  the  hands  of  one  of  his  pupils,  and  the  work  was 
done.  These  things  are  trifles,  but  a  straw  shows 
which  way  the  stream  runs,  when  a  mill-stone  would 
not.  Whence  come  even  the  grammars  and  lexicons 
of  almost  universal  use  in  studying  the  ancient  authors  ? 
The  name  of  Reimer,  and  Damm,  and  Schneider,  and 
Biittman,  and  Passow,  give  the  answer.  Where  are 
the  English  classical  scholars  in  this  century  who  take 
rank  with  Wolf,  Heyne,  Schweighauser,  Wyttenbach, 
Boeckh,  Herrmann,  Jacobs,  Siebelis,  Hoffman,  Sieben- 
kis,  Miiller,  Creutzer,  Wellauer,  and  Ast?  Nay, 
where  shall  we  find  the  rivals  of  Dindorf,  Schafer, 
Stallbaum,  Spitzner,  Bothe  and  Bekker,  and  a  host 
more  ?  for  we  have  only  written  down  those  which  rushed 
into  our  mind.  What  English  name  of  the  present 
century  can  be  mentioned  with  the  least  of  these.?  Not 
one.     They  labor,  and  we  may  enter  into  their  labors^ 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  473 

if  we  are  not  too  foolish.  Who  write  ancient  history 
like  Niebiihr,  and  Miiller,  and  Schlosser?  But  for  the 
Germans  the  English  would  have  believed  till  this  day, 
perhaps,  all  the  stories  of  Livy,  that  it  rained  stones, 
and  oxen  spoke,  for  so  it  was  written  in  Latin,  and  the 
text  was  unimpeachable. 

But  some  may  sa}',  these  are  not  matters  of  primary 
concern ;  in  things  of  "  great  pith  and  moment  "  we 
are  superior  to  these  Teutonic  giants.  Would  it  were 
so.  Perhaps  in  some  of  the  physical  sciences  the  Eng- 
lish surpass  their  German  friends,  though  even  here 
we  have  doubts  which  are  strengthened  every  month. 
One  would  expect  the  most  valuable  works  on  physical 
geography  from  England ;  but  we  are  disappointed, 
and  look  in  vain  for  any  one  to  rival  Ritter,  or  even 
Mannert.  In  works  of  general  civil  and  political  his- 
tory in  the  present  century,  though  we  have  two  emi- 
nent historians  in  our  own  country,  one  of  whom  must 
take  rank  with  Thuc3'dides  and  Tacitus,  Gibbon  and 
Hume,  England  has  nothing  to  equal  the  great  works 
of  Von  Hammer,  Wilkins,  and  Schlosser.  Why  need 
we  mention  the  German  histories  of  inventions,  of  art, 
of  each  science,  of  classical  education,  of  literature  in 
general.''  Why  name  their  histories  of  philosophy, 
from  Brucker  down  to  Brandis  and  INIichelet.'^  In 
English,  we  have  but  Stanley',  good  in  his  time,  and 
valuable  even  now,  and  Enfield,  a  poor  compiler  from 
Brucker.  The  Germans  abound  in  histories  of  liter- 
ature, from  the  beginning  of  civilization  down  to  the 
last  Leipsic  fair.  In  England  such  works  are  un- 
known. We  have  as  yet  no  history  of  our  own  liter- 
ature, though  the  Germans  have  at  least  one,  quite 
readable  and  instructive.  Even  the  dry  and  defective 
book  of  Mr.  Hallam, —  for  such  it  is  with  all  its  many 


474  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

excellencies, —  is  drawn  largely  from  its  German  prede- 
cessors, though  it  is  often  inferior  to  them  in  vigor, 
and  almost  always  in  erudition  and  in  eloquence. 

Doubtless,  the  English  are  a  very  learned  people ;  a 
very  Christian  people  likewise,  no  doubt.  But  within 
the  present  century,  what  has  been  written  in  the  Eng- 
lish tongue,  in  any  department  of  theological  scholar- 
ship, which  is  of  value  and  makes  a  mark  on  the  age.'* 
The  Bridgewater  Treatises,  and  the  new  edition  of 
Paley, — ■  we  blush  to  confess  it,  are  the  best  things. 
In  the  criticism  and  explanation  of  the  Bible,  Old  Tes- 
tament or  New  Testament,  what  has  been  written  that 
is  worth  reading  .f^  Nothing,  absolutely  nothing  of  any 
permanent  value,  save  some  half-dozen  of  books,  it 
may  be,  drawn  chiefly  from  German  sources.  Who 
have  written  the  grammars  and  lexicons  by  which  the 
Hebrew  and  Greek  Testaments  are  read.^  Why,  the 
Germans.  Who  have  written  critical  introductions  to 
the  Bible,  useful  helps  in  studying  the  sacred  let- 
ters.? Why,  the  Germans.  Who  have  best  and  alone 
developed  the  doctrines  of  the  Bible,  and  explained 
them,  philosophically  and  practically  ?  Why,  the  Ger- 
mans again.  Where  are  the  men  who  shall  stand  up 
in  presence  of  Gesenius,  Fiirst,  Schleusner,  and  Wahl; 
Winer,  and  Ewald,  and  Nordheimer ;  Michaelis,  Eich- 
horn,  Jahn  and  Bertholdt,  Hug  and  De  Wette ;  the 
Rosenmiillers,  Maurer,  Umbreit,  Credner,  Paulus,  Kui- 
noel,  Fritzsche,  Von  Meyer,  Liicke,  Olshausen,  Heng- 
stenberg  and  Tholuck,  and  take  rank  as  their  peers? 
We  look  for  them,  but  in  vain.  "  We  put  our  finger 
on  them,  and  they  are  not  there."  What  work  on  the- 
ology which  has  deserved  or  attracted  general  notice, 
has  been  written  in  English  in  the  present  century.'' 
We  know  of  none.     In  Germany  such  works  are  nu- 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  475 

merous.  They  have  been  written  by  pious  men,  and 
the  profoundest  scholars  of  the  age.  Wegscheider's 
Theology  is  doubtless  a  poor  work ;  but  its  equal  is 
nowhere  to  be  found  in  the  English  tongue.  Its  equal, 
did  we  say.''  There  is  nothing  that  can  pretend  to  ap- 
proach it.  Where,  then,  shall  we  find  rivals  for  such 
theologians  as  Ammon,  Hase,  Daub,  Baumgarten, 
Crusius,  Schleiermacher,  Bretschneider,  and  De  Wette? 
even  for  Zachariae,  Vatke,  and  Kaiser.'' 

In  ecclesiastical  history  everybody  knows  what  sort 
of  works  have  proceeded  from  the  English  and  Ameri- 
can scholars.  Jortin,  Milner,  Priestley,  Campbell, 
Echard,  Erskine,  Jones,  Waddington,  and  Sabine ; 
these  are  our  writers.  But  what  are  their  works,'' 
They  are  scarcely  known  in  the  libraries  of  scholars. 
For  our  knowledge  of  eccelsiastical  history  we  depend 
on  the  translations  from  Du  Pin,  and  Tilleraont,  or 
more  generally  on  those  from  the  German  Mosheim  and 
Gieseler.  All  our  English  ecclesiastical  historians, 
what  are  they  when  weighed  against  Mosheim,  the 
Walchs,  Vater,  Gieseler,  Schrockh,  Planck,  Muenscher, 
Tzschirner,  and  Neander.'^  Why,  they  might  make 
sumptuous  repasts  on  the  crumbs  which  fall  from  these 
men's  table.  The  Germans  publish  the  Fathers  of 
the  Greek  and  Latin  Church,  and  study  them.  To  the 
English  they  are  almost  "  a  garden  shut  up  and  a 
fountain  sealed."  It  is  only  the  Germans  in  this  age 
who  study  theology,  or  even  the  Bible,  with  the  aid  of 
enlightened  and  scientific  criticism.  There  is  not  even 
a  history  of  theology  in  our  language. 

But  this  is  not  all,  by  no  means  the  chief  merit  of 
the  German  scholars.  Within  less  than  threescore 
years  there  have  appeared  among  them  four  philoso- 
phers who  would  have  been  conspicuous  in  any  age,  and 


476  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

will  hereafter,  we  think,  be  named  with  Plato,  Aristotle, 
Bacon,  Descartes,  and  Leibnitz  —  among  the  great 
thinkers  of  the  wrold.  They  are  Kant,  Fichte,  Schell- 
ing,  and  Hegel.  Silently  these  lights  arose  and  went 
up  the  sky  without  noise,  to  take  their  place  among 
the  fixed  stars  of  genius,  and  shine  with  them ;  names 
that  will  not  fade  out  of  heaven  until  some  ages  shall 
have  passed  away.  These  men  were  thinkers  all ;  deep, 
mighty  thinkers.  They  knelt  reverently  down  before 
nature  with  religious  hearts,  and  asked  her  questions. 
They  sat  on  the  brink  of  the  well  of  truth,  and  contin- 
ued to  draw  for  themselves  and  the  world.  Take  Kant 
alone,  and  in  the  whole  compass  of  thought  we  scarce 
know  his  superior.  From  Aristotle  to  Leibnitz  we  do 
not  find  his  equal.  No,  nor  since  Leibnitz.  Need  we 
say  it.f^  Was  there  not  many  a  Lord  Bacon  in  Im- 
manuel  Kant.'^  Leibnitz  himself  was  not  more  capa- 
cious, nor  the  Stagyrite  more  profound.  What  revo- 
lutions are  in  his  thoughts !  His  books  are  battles. 
Philosophical  writers  swarm  in  Germany.  Philosophy 
seems  epidemic  almost,  and  a  score  of  first-rate  Ameri- 
can, or  half  a  dozen  English,  reputations  might  be 
made  out  of  any  of  their  philosophical  writers  of  fourth 
or  fifth  magnitude.  Here,  one  needs  very  little  schol- 
arship to  establish  a  name.  A  small  capital  suffices  for 
the  outfit,  for  the  credit  system  seems  to  prevail  in  the 
literary  as  well  as  the  commercial  world ;  and  one  can 
draw  on  the  bank  of  possibilities,  as  well  as  the  fund 
of  achievements.  One  need  but  open  any  number  of 
the  Berlin  Jahrbiicher,  the  Jena  Allgemeine  Literatur 
Zeitung,  or  the  Studien  und  Kritiken,  to  see  what  a 
lofty  spirit  prevails  among  the  Germans  in  philosophy, 
criticism,  and  religion.  There  a  great  deal  is  taken 
for  granted,  and  supposed  to  be  known  to  all  readers, 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  477 

which  here   is   not  to  be   supposed,   except   of  a  very 
few,  the  most  learned.     Philosophy  and  theology  we 
reckon  as  the  pride  of  the  Germans.      Here  their  genius 
bursts  into  bloom,  and  ripens  into  fruit.      But  the}'  are 
greatly  eminent,  likewise,  in  the  departments  of  poetry 
and  elegant  letters  in  general.      Notwithstanding  their 
wealth    of    erudition,    they     are    eminently    original. 
Scandinavia  and  the  East,  Greece  and  the  middle  ages, 
all  pour   their  treasures  into  the   lap   of  the   German 
muse,  who  not  only  makes  trinkets  therefrom,  but  out 
of  her  own  stores  of  linen,  and  wool,  and  silk,  spins 
and  weaves  strong  and  beautiful  apparel  for  all  her 
household,  and  the  needy  everywhere.      "  She  maketh 
herself  coverings  of  tapestry ;  her  clothing  is  silk  and 
purple."     No  doubt,   among  the  Germans  there  is   a 
host  of  servile  imitators,  whose  mind  travels  out  of  it- 
self, so  to  say,  and  makes  pilgrimages  to  Dante,  or 
Shakespeare,   or  Pindar,   or   Thucydides.      Some   men 
think  they  are  very  Shakespeares,  because  they  trans- 
gress obvious  rules.      The  sickly  negations  of  Byron, 
his  sensibility,  misanthropy,  and  affectation,  are  aped 
every  day  in  Berlin  and  Vienna.      Horace  and  Swift, 
Anacreon  and  Bossuet,  and  Seneca  and  Walter  Scott, 
not  to  name  others,  have  imitators  in  every  street,  who 
remind  one  continually  of  the  wren  that  once  got  into 
the  eagle's  nest,  set  up  to  be  king  of  the  birds,  and 
attempted  a  scream.      Still  the  staple  of  their  literature 
is  eminently  original.      In  point  of  freshness  it  has  no 
equal  since  the  da3-s  of  Sophocles.      Who  shall  match 
with  Wieland,  and  Lessing,  the  Schlegels,  Herder,  so 
sweet   and  beautiful,   Jean-Paul,   Tieck,   and   Schiller, 
and  Goethe?     We  need  not  mention  lesser  names,  nor 
add  more  of  their  equals. 

In  what  we  have  said,  we  would  not  underrate  Eng- 


478  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

lish  literature,  especially  the  works  of  former  ages. 
We  would  pay  deep  and  lasting  homage  to  the  great 
poets,  historians,  philosophers,  and  divines  of  the 
mother  country,  in  her  best  days.  Their  influence  is 
still  fresh  and  living  throughout  the  world  of  letters. 
But  as  these  great  spirits  ascended,  the  mantle  of  their 
genius  or  inspiration  has  fallen  on  the  Germans,  and 
not  the  English.  Well  says  a  contemporary,  "  Mod- 
ern works  are  greatly  deficient  both  in  depth  and  purity 
of  sentiment.  They  seldom  contain  original  and  strik- 
ing views  of  the  nature  of  man,  and  of  the  institutions 
which  spring  from  his  volition.  There  is  a  dearth  of 
thought  and  sterility  of  sentiment  among  us.  Liter- 
ature, art,  philosophy,  and  life,  are  without  freshness, 
ideality,  verity,  and  spirit.  Most  works  since  the  days 
of  Milton  require  little  thought ;  they  want  depth, 
freshness ;  the  meaning  is  on  the  surface ;  and  the 
charm,  if  any,  is  no  deeper  than  the  fancy ;  the  imagi- 
nation is  not  called  into  life;  the  thoughts  are  carried 
creepingly  along  the  earth,  and  often  lost  amid  the 
low  and  uncleanly  things  of  sense  and  custom."  "  I 
do  not,  at  this  time,  think  of  any  writer  since  Milton, 
excepting  Coleridge  and  Wordsworth,  whose  works 
require  a  serene  and  thoughtful  spirit  in  order  to  be 
understood."  * 

As  little  would  we  be  insensible  to  the  merits  of  the 
rising  literature  of  our  own  land.  Little  could  be  ex- 
pected of  us,  hitherto.  Our  business  has  been  to  hew 
down  the  forest ;  to  make  paths  and  saw-mills,  railroads 
and  steamboats ;  to  lay  the  foundation  of  a  great  peo- 
ple, and  provide  for  the  emergencies  of  the  day.  As 
yet  there  is  no  American  literature  which  corresponds 
to  the  first  principles  of  our  institutions,  as  the  Eng- 

*A.  B.  Alcott  in  "  Record  of  a  School." 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  479 

lish  or  French  literature  corresponds  to  theirs.  We 
are,  perhaps,  yet  too  young  and  raw  to  carry  out  the 
great  American  idea,  either  ir  literature  or  society. 
At  present  both  are  imitations,  and  seem  rather  the 
result  of  foreign  and  accidental  circumstances,  than  the 
offspring  of  our  own  spirit.  No  doubt  the  time  will 
come  when  there  shall  be  an  American  school  in  science, 
letters,  and  the  elegant  arts.  Certainly,  there  is  none 
now.  The  promise  of  it  must  be  sought  in  our  news- 
papers and  speeches  oftener  than  in  our  books.  Like 
all  other  nations  we  have  begun  with  imitations,  and 
shall  come  to  originals,  doubtless,  before  we  end. 

But  there  is  one  peculiar  charm  in  German  litera- 
ture quite  unequalled,  we  think,  in  modern  days,  that 
is,  the  religious  character  of  their  works.  We  know 
it  is  often  said  the  Germans  are  licentious,  immoral  in 
all  ways,  and  above  all  men, —  not  the  old  giants  ex- 
cepted,—  are  haters  of  religion.  One  would  fancy 
Mezentius  ^  or  Goliah  was  the  archetype  of  the  nation. 
We  say  it  advisedly  that  this  is,  in  our  opinion,  the 
most  religious  literature  the  world  has  seen  since  the 
palmy  days  of  Greek  writing,  when  the  religious  spirit 
seemed  fresh  and  warm,  coming  into  life  and  playing 
grateful  with  the  bland  celestial  light  reflected  from 
each  flower-cup  and  passing  cloud,  or  received  direct 
and  straightway  from  the  source  of  all.  It  stands  an 
unconscious  witness  to  the  profound  piety  of  the  Ger- 
man heart.  We  had  almost  said  it  was  the  only  Chris- 
tian national  literature  the  world  has  ever  seen.  Cer- 
tainly, to  our  judgment,  the  literature  of  Old  England 
in  her  best  days  was  less  religious  in  thought  and  feel- 
ing, as  it  was  less  beautiful  in  its  form,  and  less  simple 
in  its  quiet  loving  holiness,  than  this  spontaneous  and 
multiform   expression   of   the   German   soul.     But   we 


480  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

speak  not  for  others,  let  each  drink  of  "  that  spiritual 
rock  "  where  the  water  is  most  salubrious  to  him.  But 
we  do  not  say  that  German  literature  comprises  no 
works  decidedly  immoral  and  irreligious.  Certainly 
we  have  read  such,  but  they  are  rare,  while  almost 
every  book  not  entirely  scientific  and  technical  breathes 
a  religious  spirit.  You  meet  this  coming  unobtru- 
sively upon  3'ou  where  you  least  of  all  expect  it.  We 
do  not  say,  that  the  idea  of  a  Christian  literature  is 
realized  in  Germany,  or  likely  to  be  realized.  No,  the 
farthest  from  it  possible.  No  nation  has  yet  dreamed 
of  realizing  it.  Nor  can  this  be  done  until  Christian- 
ity penetrates  the  heart  of  the  nations,  and  brings  all 
into  subjection  to  the  spirit  of  life.  The  Christianity 
of  the  world  is  yet  but  a  baptized  heathenism,  so  lit- 
erature is  yet  heathen  and  profane.  We  dare  not 
think  lest  we  think  against  our  faith.  As  if  truth 
were  hostile  to  faith,  and  God's  house  were  divided 
against  itself.  The  Greek  literature  represents  the 
Greek  religion,  its  ideal  and  its  practical  side.  But 
all  the  literature  of  all  Christian  nations,  taken  to- 
gether, does  not  represent  the  true  Christian  religion, 
only  that  fraction  of  it  these  nations  could  translate 
into  their  experience.  Hence,  we  have  as  yet  only  the 
cradle  song  of  Christianity  and  its  nursery  rhymes. 
The  same  holds  true  in  art, —  painting,  sculpture,  and 
architecture.  Hitherto  it  is  only  the  church  militant, 
not  the  church  triumphant,  that  has  been  represented. 
A  Gothic  cathedral  gives  you  the  aspiration,  not  the 
attainment,  the  resting  in  the  fulness  of  God  which 
is  the  end  of  Christianity.  We  have  Magdalens,  Ma- 
donnas, saints  emaciated  almost  to  anatomies,  with 
most  rueful  visage,  and  traditional  faces  of  the  Sav- 
ior.    These,  however,  express  the  penitence,  the  wail- 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  481 

ing  of  the  world  lying  in  darkness,  rather  than  the 
light  of  the  nations.  The  Son  of  Man  risen  from  the 
grave  is  yet  lacking  in  art.  The  Christian  Prome' 
theus  or  Apollo  is  not  yet ;  still  less  the  triple  Graces, 
and  the  Olympian  Jove  of  Christianity.  What  is 
Saint  Peter's  to  the  Parthenon,  considered  as  symbols 
of  the  two  religions,''  The  same  deficiency  prevails  in 
literature.  We  have  inherited  much  from  the  heathen, 
and  so  Christianity,  becoming  the  residuary  legatee  of 
deceased  religions,  has  earned  but  little  for  itself.  His- 
tory has  not  yet  been  written  in  the  spirit  of  the 
Christian  scheme ;  as  a  friend  says,  hitherto  it  has  been 
the  "  history  of  elder  brothers."  Christianity  would 
write  of  the  whole  famil3\  The  great  Christian  poem, 
the  Tragedy  of  Mankind,  has  not  yet  been  conceived. 
A  Christian  philosophy  founded  on  an  exhaustive  ana- 
lysis of  man  is  among  the  things  that  are  distant.  The 
true  religion  has  not  3'et  done  its  work  in  the  heart  of 
the  nations.  How,  then,  can  it  reach  their  literature, 
their  arts,  their  society,  which  come  from  the  nation's 
heart.''  Christianity  is  still  in  the  manger,  wrapped  in 
swaddling-bands,  and  unable  to  move  its  limbs.  Its 
Jewish  parent  watches  fearful,  with  a  pondering  heart. 
The  shepherds  that  honor  the  new-born  are  Jewish  still, 
dripping  as  yet  with  the  dews  of  ancient  night.  The 
heathen  magicians  have  come  up  to  worship,  guided 
by  the  star  of  truth  which  goes  before  all  simple  hearts, 
and  lighteth  every  man  that  cometh  into  the  world. 
But  they  are  heathen  even  now.  They  can  only  offer 
"  gold,  and  frankincense,  and  myrrh."  They  do  not 
give  their  mind,  and  still  less  their  heart.  The  celes- 
tial child  is  still  surrounded  by  the  oxen  that  slumber 
in  their  stalls,  or  wake  to  blame  the  light  that  pre- 
vents their  animal  repose.  The  Herod  of  superstition 
n— 31 


482  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

is  troubled,  and  his  city  with  him.  Alarmed  at  the 
new  tidings,  he  gathers  together  his  mighty  men,  his 
chief  priests  and  scribes,  to  take  counsel  of  his  twin 
prophets,  the  flesh  and  the  devil,  and  while  he  pre- 
tends to  seek  only  to  worship,  he  would  gladly  slay  the 
young  child,  that  is  born  king  of  the  world.  But 
Christianity  will  yet  grow  up  to  manhood,  and  escape 
the  guardianship  of  traditions,  to  do  the  work  God  has 
chosen.  Then,  and  not  till  then,  will  the  gospel  of 
beautiful  souls,  fair  as  the  light,  and  "  terrible  as  an 
army  with  banners,"  be  written  in  the  literature,  arts, 
society,  and  life  of  the  world.  Now  when  we  say  that 
German  literature  is  religious,  above  all  others,  we 
mean  that  it  comes  nearer  than  any  other  to  the  Chris- 
tian ideal  of  literary  art.  Certainly  it  by  no  means 
reaches  the  mark. 

Such,  then,  is  German  literature.  Now,  with  those 
among  us  who  think  nothing  good  can  come  of  it,  we 
have  nothing  to  say.  Let  them  rejoice  in  their  own 
cause,  and  be  blessed  in  it.  But  from  the  influence 
this  rich,  beloved,  and  beautiful  literature  will  exert 
on  our  infant  world  of  letters,  we  hope  the  most  happy 
results.  The  diligence  which  shuns  superficial  study; 
the  boldness  which  looks  for  the  causes  of  things,  and 
the  desire  to  fall  back  on  what  alone  is  elementary  and 
eternal,  in  criticism,  philosophy,  and  religion ;  the  re- 
ligious humility  and  reverence  which  pervades  it, — 
may  well  stimulate  our  youth  to  great  works.  We 
would  not  that  any  one  should  give  in  his  adhesion  to  a 
German  master  or  copy  German  models.  All  have 
their  defects.  We  wonder  that  clear  thinkers  can 
write  so  darkly  as  some  do,  and  that  philosophers  and 
theologians  are  content  with  their  slovenly  paragraphs, 
after   Goethe  has   written   such  luminous   prose.     We 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  483 

doubt  that  their  philosophical  or  theological  systems 
can  ever  take  root  in  the  American  mind.  But  their 
method  may  well  be  followed ;  and  fortunate  will  it  be 
for  us  if  the  central  truths  their  systems  are  made  to 
preserve  are  sown  in  our  soil,  and  bear  abundant  fruit. 
No  doubt  there  is  danger  in  studying  these  writings ; 
just  as  there  is  danger  in  reading  Copernicus  or  Locke, 
Aristotle  or  Lord  Brougham,  or  Isaiah  and  St.  John. 
As  a  jocose  friend  sa^'s,  "  It  is  alwa3's  dangerous  for 
a  young  man  to  think,  for  he  may  think  wrong,  you 
know."  It  were  sad  to  see  men  run  mad  after  Ger- 
man philosophy ;  but  it  is  equally  sad  to  see  them  go 
to  the  same  excess  in  English  philosoph3^  If  "  Trans- 
cendentalism "  is  bad,  so  is  Paleyism  and  Materialism. 
Truth  is  possessed  entire  by  no  sect,  German  or  Eng- 
hsh.  It  requires  all  schools  to  get  at  all  truth,  as  the 
whole  church  is  needed  to  preach  the  whole  Gospel. 
Blessed  were  the  days  when  truth  dwelt  among  men 
in  her  wholeness.  But  alas !  they  only  existed  in  fable, 
and  now,  like  Osiris  in  the  story,  she  is  cut  into  frag- 
ments and  scattered  world-wide,  and  sorrowing  mor- 
tals must  journey  their  life  long  to  gather  here  a 
piece  and  there  a  piece.  But  the  whole  can  never  be 
joined  and  reanimated  in  this  life.  Where  there  is 
much  thought  there  will  be  some  truth,  and  where  there 
is  freedom  in  thinking  there  is  room  for  misconduct 
also.  We  hope  light  from  Germany ;  but  we  expect 
shadows  with  it.  The  one  will  not  eclipse  the  sun,  nor 
the  other  be  thicker  than  the  old  darkness  we  have 
"  felt  "  from  our  ^''outh  up.  We  know  there  is  sin 
among  the  Germans ;  it  is  so  wherever  there  are  men 
and  women.  Philosophy,  in  Germany  or  England, 
like  the  stout  man  a-journeying,  advances  from  day  to 
day ;  but  sometimes  loses  the  track  and  wanders,  "  not 


484  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

knowing  whither  he  goeth ;"  nay,  sometimes  stumbles 
into  a  ditch.  When  this  latter  accident, —  as  it  is  con- 
fessed,—  has  befallen  philosophy  in  America  and  Eng- 
land, and  men  declare  she  is  stark  dead,  we  see  not  why 
her  friends  might  not  call  on  her  German  sister  to 
extricate  her  from  the  distress  and  revive  her  once 
more,  or  at  least  give  her  decent  burial.  We  are  sorry, 
we  confess  it,  to  see  foolish  young  men,  and  old  men 
not  burthened  with  wisdom,  trusting  wholly  in  a  man, 
thinking  as  he  thinks,  and  moving  as  he  pulls  the 
strings.  It  is  dangerous  to  yield  thus  to  a  German  or 
a  Scotch  philosopher.  It  were  bad  to  be  borne  off  on 
a  cloud  by  Fichte  and  Hegel,  or  to  be  made  "  spouse 
of  the  worm  and  brother  of  the  clay  "  by  Priestley  or 
Paley.  But  we  fancy  it  were  better  to  fall  into  the 
hands  of  Jove  than  Pluto.  We  cannot  predict  the  re- 
sult of  the  German  movement  in  philosophy ;  but  we  see 
no  more  reason  for  making  Henry  Heine,  Gutzkow, 
and  Schefer  the  exponents  of  that  movement, —  as  the 
manner  of  some  is, —  than  for  selecting  Bulwer,  Byron, 
Moore,  and  Taylor  the  infidel,  to  represent  the  church 
of  England.  Seneca  and  Petronius  were  both  Roman 
men,  but  which  is  the  type?  Let  German  literature  be 
weighed  in  an  even  balance,  and  then  pass  for  what  it 
is  worth.  We  have  no  fear  that  it  will  be  written 
down,  and  should  be  sorry  to  see  any  exaggerated 
statement  of  its  excellence  which  would  in  the  end  lead 
to  disappointment. 

We  turn  now  to  the  book  named  at  the  head  of  our 
article.  The  author's  design  is  to  give  a  picture  of 
German  literature.  His  work  does  not  pretend  to  be 
a  history,  nor  to  point  out  the  causes  which  have 
made  the  literature  what  it  is.  His  aim  is  to  write 
of  subjects  rather  than  to  talk  about  books.     His  work 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  485 

is  merely  a  picture.  Since  this  is  so  its  character  de- 
pends on  two  things,,  namely,  the  artist's  point  of 
sight,  and  the  fidelity  with  which  he  has  painted  things 
as  they  appear  from  that  point.  The  first  question 
then  is,  from  what  point  does  he  survey  the  field.''  It 
is  not  that  of  philosophy,  theology,  or  politics.  He 
is  no  adept  in  either  of  these  sciences.  He  is  emi- 
nently national,  and  takes  the  stand  of  a  German  ama- 
teur. Therefore  it  is  his  duty  to  paint  things  as  they 
appear  to  a  disinterested  German  man  of  letters ;  so 
he  must  treat  of  religion,  philosophy,  education,  his- 
tory, politics,  natural  science,  poetry,  law,  and  criti- 
cism, from  this  point  of  view.  It  would  certainly  re- 
quire an  encyclopedical  head  to  discuss  ably  all  these 
subjects,  and  bring  them  down  to  the  comprehension 
of  the  unlearned.  It  was  scarcely  to  be  expected  that 
any  one  man  should  be  so  familiar  with  all  departments 
of  thought  in  a  literature  so  wide  and  rich  as  this, 
as  never  to  make  mistakes,  and  even  great  mistakes. 
But  Mr.  Menzel  ^  does  not  give  us  a  faithful  picture 
of  things  as  seen  from  this  position,  as  we  shall  pro- 
ceed to  show  in  some  details.  He  carries  with  him 
violent  prejudices,  which  either  blind  his  eyes  to  the 
truth  or  prevent  him  from  representing  it  as  it  is.  On 
his  first  appearance,  his  unmanly  hostility  to  Goethe 
began  to  show  itself.*  Nay,  it  appeared,  we  are  told, 
in  his  Streckverse,  published  a  little  before.  This 
hostility  amounts  to  absolute  hatred,  we  think,  not  only 
of  the  works,  but  of  the  man  himself.  This  animosity 
towards  distinguished  authors  vitiates  the  whole  work. 
Personal   feelings   and   prepossessions   perpetually   in- 

*  Europaischen  Blattern  for  1824,  I.  B.  p.  101  —  108,  and  IV., 
p.  233,  seq.  But  these  we  have  never  seen,  and  only  a  few 
stray  numbers  of  the  Literatur-Blatt. 


486  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

terrupt  the  cool  judgment  of  the  critic.  When  a 
writer  attempts,  as  Menzel  does,  to  show  that  an  au- 
thor who  has  a  reputation  which  covers  the  world,  and 
rises  higher  and  higher  each  year,  who  is  distinguished 
for  the  breadth  of  his  studies  and  the  newness  of  his 
views,  and  his  exquisite  taste  in  all  matters  of  art,  is 
only  a  humbug,  what  can  we  do  but  smile,  and  ask  if 
effects  come  without  causes?  Respecting  this  hostil- 
ity to  Goethe,  insane  as  it  obviously  is,  we  have  noth- 
ing to  say.  Besides,  the  translator  has  ably  referred 
to  the  matter  in  the  preface.  That  Goethe  as  a  man 
was  selfish  to  a  very  high  degree,  a  debauchee  and 
well-bred  epicurean,  who  had  little  sympathy  with 
what  was  highest  in  man,  so  long  as  he  could  crown 
himself  with  rose-buds,  we  are  willing  to  admit.  But 
let  him  have  justice,  none  the  less.  Mr.  Menzel  sets 
up  a  false  standard  by  which  to  judge  literary  pro- 
ductions. 

Philosophy,  ethics,  art,  and  literature  should  be 
judged  of  by  their  own  laws.  We  would  not 
censure  the  Laocoon  because  it  did  not  teach  us 
agriculture,  nor  the  Iliad  because  it  was  not  repub- 
lican enough  for  our  taste.  Each  of  these  works  is  to 
be  judged  by  its  own  principles.  Now,  we  object  to 
our  friend,  that  he  judges  literary  works  by  the  po- 
litical complexion  of  their  author.  Thus,  for  exam- 
ple, not  to  mention  Goethe,  he  condemns  Johann  von 
Miiller, —  whom,  as  a  Swiss,  he  was  not  bound  to  men- 
tion among  German  writers, —  and  all  his  works,  be- 
cause he  was  no  patriot.  For  him,  "  of  all  the  German 
writers,  I  entertain  the  profoundest  contempt."  No 
doubt  the  venerable  historian,  as  some  one  has  said, 
would  be  overwhelmed  as  he  stands  in  the  Elysian 
fields   with   Tacitus    and   Thucydides,   to  be   despised 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  487 

by  such  an  historian  as  Menzel !  *  So  Krug  is  con- 
demned, not  for  his  fustiness  and  superficiahty,  but 
because  he  wrote  against  the  Poles.  It  is  surprising 
to  what  a  length  this  is  carried.  He  ought  to  con- 
demn the  "  Egoism  "  of  Fichte  no  less  than  that  of 
Hegel.  But  because  the  former  is  a  liberal  and  the 
latter  a  conservative,  the  same  thing  is  tolerated  in  the 
one  and  condemned  in  the  other.  Words  cannot  ex- 
press his  abhorrence  of  Hegel.  Fries  is  commended 
as  a  philosopher  because  he  was  "  almost  the  only  true 
patriot  among  our  philosophers."  Oken  must  not  be 
^reproached  with  his  coarse  materialism,  because  he  re- 
signed his  professorship  at  Jena  rather  than  give  up 
his  liberal  journal.  These  few  instances  are  sufficient 
to  show  the  falseness  of  his  standard. 

He  indulges  in  personal  abuse ;  especially  does  he 
pour  out  the  vials  of  his  calumny  on  the  "  young  Ger- 
mans," whom  he  censures  for  their  personal  abuse. 
He  seems  to  have  collected  all  the  "  little  city  twad- 
dle," as  the  Germans  significantly  name  it,  as  mate- 
rial for  his  work,  and  very  striking  are  the  colors,  in- 
deed. His  abuse  of  this  kind  is  so  gross  that  we 
shall  say  no  more  of  it.f  Mr.  Menzel  is  the  Ber- 
serker of  modern  critics.  He  scorns  all  laws  of  lit- 
erary warfare;  scalps,  and  gouges,  and  stabs  under 
the  fifth  rib,  and  sometimes  condescends  to  tell  a  little 

f;  fib,  as  we  shall  show  in  its  place.  He  often  tries  the 
works  he  censures  by  a  moral,  and  not  a  critical  or 
artistic  standard.  No  doubt,  the  moral  is  the  high- 
est ;  and  a  work  of  art  wherein  the  moral  element  is 

I    wanting   deserves  the   severest   censure.      No   man   can 

*  See  an  able  defence  of  Von  Miiller,  in  Strauss's  Streit- 
schriften,    Heft  2.     Tubingen:   1837.  p.   100. 

t  Read  who  will,  Vol.  III.  p.  238,  for  an  example. 


^88  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

insist  on  this  too  strongly.  But  when  a  man  writes 
from  the  artistic  point  of  view,  we  think  it  is  his  duty 
to  adhere  to  his  principles.  If  a  work  is  immoral,  it 
is  so  far  false  to  the  first  principles  of  art.  It 
does  very  little  good,  we  fancy,  merely  to  cry  out 
that  this  book  of  Gutzkow,  or  that  of  Goethe,  is  im- 
moral. It  only  makes  foolish  young  men  the  more 
eager  to  read  it.  But  if  the  critic  would  show  that 
the  offending  parts  were  false,  no  less  than  wicked, 
and  mere  warts  and  ulcers  on  the  body  of  the  work, 
he  would  make  the  whole  appear  loathsome  and  not 
attractive.  Mr.  Menzel  is  bound  to  do  this,  for  he 
believes  that  the  substance  and  the  form  of  art  are 
inseparable,  or  in  plain  English,  that  virtue  is  beauti- 
ful and  vice  ugly.  Having  made  this  criticism,  he 
might  justly  pronounce  the  moral  sentence  also.  If 
truth  is  harmonious,  then  a  licentious  work  is  false 
and  detestable,  as  well  in  an  artistic  as  in  a  moral 
point  of  view.  But  we  cannot  enlarge  on  this  great 
question  at  the  end  of  an  article. 

Judging  Menzel  from  his  own  point  of  view,  this 
work  is  defective  in  still  graver  points.  He  carries  his 
partisan  feelings  wherever  he  goes,  and  with  very  su- 
perficial knowledge  passes  a  false  sentence  on  great 
men  and  great  things.  His  mistakes  are  sometimes 
quite  amusing,  even  to  an  American  scholar,  and  must 
be  doubly  ludicrous  to  a  German,  whose  minute  knowl- 
edge of  the  literature  of  his  own  country  would  reveal 
more  mistakes  than  meet  our  eye.  We  will  point  out 
a  few  of  these  in  only  two  chapters  —  those  on  philos- 
ophy and  religion.  In  the  first,  we  think  the  author 
may  safely  defy  any  one  to  divine  from  his  words  the 
philosophical  systems  of  the  writers  he  treats  of. 
Take,  for  a  very  striking  example,  his  remarks  upon 


GERMAN  LITERATURE 


489 


Leibnitz.  "  The  great  Leibnitz,  who  stood  on  the 
boundary  hne  between  the  old  times  of  astrology, 
magic,  and  sympathetic  influences,  and  the  later  times 
of  severe  scientific  method,  united  the  labyrinth  of  life 
belonging  to  these  austere  dark  days  with  the  clear 
light  of  our  own.  He  was  animated  with  deep  re- 
ligious faith,  but  still  had  the  full  vigor  of  thought. 
Living  faith  in  God  was  his  rock ;  but  his  system  of 
world-harmony  *  showed  nothing  of  the  darkly-colored 
cathedral  light  of  the  ancient  mystics ;  it  stood  forth 
in  the  clear  white  light  of  the  day,  like  a  marble  tem- 
ple on  the  mountain-top."  From  this  statement  one 
would  naturally  connect  Leibnitz  with  Pythagoras, 
Kepler,  and  Baron  Swedenborg,  who  really  believed 
and  taught  the  world-harmony.  But  who  would  ever 
dream  of  the  monads,  which  play  such  a  part  in  the 
system  of  Leibnitz?  He  tells  us  that  Eberhard  has 
written  a  one-sided  and  Kantian  history  of  philosophy, 
which  is  very  strange  in  a  man  who  lived  a  Wolfian 
all  his  days  and  fought  against  the  critical  philosophy, 
though  with  somewhat  more  zeal  than  knowledge,  it  is 
thought.  Besides,  his  history  of  philosophy  was  pub- 
lished in  1T88,  before  the  Kantian  philosophy  had  be- 
come lord  of  the  ascendant.  As  he  criticises  poets  by 
the  patriotic  standard,  so  he  tries  the  philosophers  by 
his  aesthetic  rule,  and  wonders  they  are  hard  to  under- 
stand. But  these  are  minor  defects ;  come  we  to  the 
greater.  His  remarks  on  Kant  are  exceedingly  un- 
just, not  to  speak  more  harshly.  "  The  philosoph- 
ical century  wanted  an  earth  without  a  heaven,  a  state 
without  a  church,  man  without  a  God.     No  one  has 


*  Mr.  Felton  has  translated  Weltharmonie  "  Preestablished 
Harmony,"  which  Leibnitz  believed  in,  but  it  is  not  the  mean- 
ing of  the  word. 


490  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

shown  so  plainly  as  Kant  how  with  this  limitation 
earth  may  still  be  a  paradise,  the  state  a  moral  union, 
and  man  a  noble  being,  by  his  own  reason  and  power, 
subjected  to  law."  We  do  not  see  how  any  one  could 
come  to  this  conclusion  who  had  read  Kant's  Kritik 
of  Judgment,  and  Practical  Reason,  and  conclude  our 
critic,  forgetting  to  look  into  these  books,  in  his  ab- 
horrence of  scholastic  learning  and  "  study  that  makes 
men  pale,"  cut  the  matter  short,  and  rode  over  the 
"  high  priori  road  "  in  great  state  to  the  conclusion. 
We  pass  over  his  account  of  Fichte  and  Schelling,  leav- 
ing such  as  have  the  ability  to  determine,  from  his 
remarks,  what  were  the  systems  of  these  two  philoso- 
phers, and  reconstruct  them  at  their  leisure.  There  is 
an  old  remark  we  have  somewhere  heard,  that  it  takes 
a  philosopher  to  judge  a  philosopher;  and  the  truth 
of  the  proverb  is  very  obvious  to  the  readers  of  this 
chapter.  Hegel  seems  the  object  of  our  author's  most 
desperate  dislike.  His  sin,  however,  is  not  so  much 
his  philosophy  as  his  conservative  politics,  as  it  ap- 
pears. He  does  not  condescend  —  as  an  historian 
might  do  once  in  a  while  —  to  give  us  a  portrait,  or 
even  a  caricature  of  his  system ;  but  contents  himself 
with  such  abuse  as  the  following  precious  sentences. 
"  Hegel  first  reduced  God  to  a  mere  speculation,  led 
about  by  an  evil  spirit,  in  the  void  of  his  heavenly 
heath,  who  does  nothing  but  think,  indeed,  nothing 
but  think  of  thinking."  "  He  makes  no  distinction 
between  himself  and  God ;  he  gives  himself  out  for 
God."  He  says  God  first  came  to  a  clear  conscious- 
ness of  himself  "  in  the  philosopher  who  has  the  only 
right  philosophy,  therefore  in  himself,  in  the  person 
of  Hegel.  Thus  we  have,  then,  a  miserable,  hunch- 
backed,  book-learned    God;   a   wooden   and   squinting 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  491 

academical  man,  a  man  of  the  most  painful  and  pomp- 
ous scholasticism ;  in  a  word,  a  German  pedant  on  the 
throne  of  the  world."  We  need  make  no  comments  on 
the  spirit  which  suggests  such  a  criticism  upon  a 
philosopher  like  Hegel.  Still  further,  he  says,  Forster 
"  declared  over  the  graAe  of  Hegel  that,  beyond  all 
doubt,  Hegel  was  himself  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  third 
person  in  the  Godhead."  When  we  read  this  several 
years  ago,  we  believed  the  words  were  uttered  by  some 
man  of  an  Oriental  imagination,  who  meant  no  harm 
by  his  seeming  irreverence.  But  on  inquiry  we  find  it 
is  not  so.  One  who  heard  Mr.  Forster's  oration,  who 
had  it  lying  before  him  in  print  at  the  time  of  writ- 
ing, declares  there  was  no  such  thing  in  it,  but  the 
strongest  passage  was  this :  "  Was  it  not  he  who  rec- 
onciled the  unbelievers  with  God,  inasmuch  as  he  taught 
us  truly  to  understand  Jesus  Christ."  * 

But  enough  on  this  subject.  Let  us  say  a  word  re- 
specting the  chapter  on  religion,  more  particularly  on 
that  part  relating  to  theolog}^  Here  the  learned  au- 
thor's abhorrence  of  book-learning  is  more  conspicuous 
than  elsewhere,  though  obvious  enough  in  all  parts  of 
the  book.  We  pass  over  the  first  part  of  the  chapter, 
—  which  contains  some  very  good  things  that  will 
come  to  light  in  spite  of  the  smart  declamations  in 
which  they  are  floating, —  and  proceed  to  his  account 
of  Catholicism  in  Germany.  Here,  in  a  work  on  Ger- 
man literature,  we  naturally  expect  a  picture  of  the 
Catholic  theology,  at  least  a  reference  to  the  chief 
Catholic  writers  in  this  department.  But  we  are  dis- 
appointed again.  We  find  declamations  and  anecdotes 
well  fitted  for  the  Penny  Magazine,  as  a  German  critic 
says,  to  whom  we  are  indebted  for  some  hints  on  this 

*  Strauss,  ubi  sup.,  p.  212,  213. 


492  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

topic.  He  throws  together  such  remarks  as  would 
make  excellent  and  smart  paragraphs  in  a  newspaper; 
but  gives  no  calm,  philosophical  view  of  the  subject. 
He  can  enlarge  on  the  Jesuits  or  Jansenists,  on  the 
influence  of  Kant's  and  Schelling's  philosophy,  and 
the  reaction  in  favor  of  Catholicism,  for  these  subjects 
are  in  all  mouths ;  but  he  scarce  looks  at  the  great 
philosophical  question  on  which  the  whole  matter 
hinges.  His  acquaintance  with  modem  Catholic  writ- 
ers seems  to  be  as  narrow  as  his  philosophy  is  super- 
ficial. Gunther,  Pabst,  Mohler,  Singler,  Stauden- 
maier,  Klee,  and  Hermes,  have  escaped  the  sharp 
glance  of  our  author.  In  the  portion  of  the  chapter 
which  relates  to  Protestantism  we  find  the  same  defects. 
The  sketch  of  the  history  of  theology  since  Luther  is 
hasty  and  inaccurate.  It  does  not  give  the  reader  a 
clear  conception  of  the  progress  of  ideas.  He  makes 
some  amusing  misrepresentations,  to  which  we  will 
only  refer.  Among  the  most  celebrated  of  German 
preachers  since  the  middle  of  the  last  century,  he  for- 
gets to  mention  Teller,  Loffler,  ZollikofFer,  Lavater, 
Herder,  Tzschirner,  Schmalz,  Rohr,  Zimmermann,  De 
Wette,  Marheineke,  Nitzsch,  Tholuck,  Ehrenberg, 
Strauss,  Reinhard,  Therimin,  Couard,  Lisco,  and  many 
others  of  equal  fame.  Mosheim  is  mentioned  as  a  dis- 
tinguished writer  on  morals,  Ammon  and  Bretschneider 
are  dispatched  in  a  word.  Wetstein  is  mentioned 
among  the  followers  of  Ernesti  and  Semler,  and  is  put 
after  Eichhom,  though  he  died  only  two  years  after 
the  latter  was  born.  But  it  is  an  ungrateful  task  to 
point  out  these  defects.  Certainly  we  should  not 
name  them,  if  there  were  great  and  shining  excel- 
lencies beside.  But  they  are  not  to  be  found.  The 
chapter  gives  a  confused  jumble  of  ideas,  and  not  a 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  4^5 

true  picture.  True,  it  contains  passages  of  great 
force  and  beauty,  but .  throughout  the  whole  section, 
order  and  method,  accurate  knowledge  and  an  impar- 
tial spirit,  are  grievously  wanting.  Who  would  guess 
what  great  things  had  been  done  in  Biblical  criticism 
from  Mr.  MenzePs  words.'*  Who  would  know  that 
De  Wette  had  written  profound  works  in  each  of  the 
four  great  departments  of  theology ;  indeed,  that  he 
wrote  anything  but  a  couple  of  romances.''  But  we 
are  weary  with  this  fault-finding.  However,  one  word 
must  be  said  by  way  of  criticism  upon  his  standing 
point  itself.  German  literature  is  not  to  be  surveyed 
by  an  amateur  merely.  The  dilettanti  has  no  rule 
and  compasses  in  his  pocket  by  which  he  can  measure 
all  the  objects  in  this  German  ocean  of  books.  No 
doubt,  histories  of  literature  have  hitherto  been  too 
often  "  written  in  the  special  interest  of  scholastic 
learning,"  and  are  antiquarian  lists  of  books  and  not 
living  histories.  It  is  certainly  well  to  write  a  his- 
tory of  literature  so  that  all  men  may  read.  But  it 
would  require  a  most  uncommon  head  to  treat  ably  of 
all  departments  of  literature  and  science.  In  one 
word,  it  is  quite  impossible  to  judge  all  by  one  rule. 
The  writer,  therefore,  must  change  his  position  as 
often  as  he  changes  the  subject.  He  must  write  of 
matters  pertaining  to  religion  with  the  knowledge  of  a 
theologian,  on  philosophical  subjects  like  a  philoso- 
pher, and  so  of  the  rest.  Any  attempt  to  describe 
them  all  from  one  point  of  sight  seems  as  absurd  as  to 
reckon  pounds,  shillings,  and  pence,  and  drachms, 
ounces,  quarters,  and  tons  in  the  same  column.  A 
sketch  of  German  theological  literature  ought  to  tell 
what  has  been  done  and  what  is  now  doing  by  Protes- 
tants and  Catholics  in  the  four  great  departments  of 


494  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

exegeticaL  historical,  systematic,  and  practical  the- 
ology. It  should  put  us  in  possession  of  the  idea, 
which  lies  at  the  bottom  of  Catholicism  and  Protestant- 
ism, and  tell  what  form  this  idea  assumes,  and  why 
it  takes  this  form  and  no  other.  But  to  this  Mr. 
Menzel  makes  no  pretension.  He  has  not  the  requisite 
knowledge  for  this.  His  learning  seems  gathered 
from  reviews,  newspapers,  the  conversations-lexicon, 
literary  gossip,  and  a  very  perfunctory  perusal  of 
many  books.  The  whole  work  lacks  a  plan.  There  is 
no  unity  to  the  book.  It  seems  a  compilation  of  ar- 
ticles, written  hastily  in  the  newspapers,  and  designed 
for  immediate  effect.  So  the  spirit  of  the  partisan 
appears  everywhere.  We  have  declamation  instead  of 
matter-of-fact  and  cool  judgment.  Still  the  work  is 
quite  entertaining.  Its  author,  no  doubt,  passes  for 
a  man  of  genius ;  but,  as  a  friend  says,  who  rarely 
judges  wrong,  "  he  has  more  show  than  sinew,  and 
makes  up  in  smartness  what  he  wants  in  depth."  We 
are  glad  to  welcome  the  book  in  its  English  dress,  but 
we  hope  it  will  be  read  with  caution,  as  a  guide  not  to 
be  trusted.  Its  piquant  style  and  "  withering  sar- 
casm "  remind  us  often  of  Henry  Heine  and  the  young 
Germans,  with  whom  the  author  would  not  wish  to  be 
classed.  We  think  it  will  not  give  a  true  idea  of  the 
German  mind  and  its  workings  to  the  mere  English 
reader,  or  aid  powerfully  the  student  of  German  to 
find  his  way  amid  that  labyrinthian  literature.  The 
book  is  very  suggestive,  if  one  will  but  follow  out  the 
author's  hints,  and  avoid  his  partialities  and  extrava- 
gance. 

Professor  Felton  ^  seems  to  have  performed  the  work 
of  translation  with  singular  fidelity.  His  version  is 
uncommonly     idiomatic     and     fresh.     It     reads     like 


GERMAN  LITERATURE  495 

original  English.  But  here  and  there  we  notice  a 
slight  verbal  inaccuracy  in  translating,  which  scarce 
any  human  diligence  could  avoid.*  We  regard  the 
version  as  a  monument  of  diligence  and  skill.  The 
metrical  translations  are  fresh  and  spirited. 

*  It  would  have  been  a  convenience  to  the  readers,  if  it  had 
been  stated  in  the  preface,  that  the  version  was  made  from  the 
second  German  edition,  published  at  Stuttgart,  1835;  for  the 
author  only  treats  of  things  as  they  were  at  that  time,  or  be- 
fore it. 


NOTES 


NOTES 

I 

THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

This  address  was  delivered  at  Waterville,  Maine, 
August  8,  1849,  apparently  at  the  commencement  ex- 
ercises of  Colby  College.  It  was  published  in  Speeches, 
Addresses,  and  Occasional  Sermons,  vol.  III.,  1852,  at 
the  end  of  that  volume,  and  bore  the  title  of  "The  Po- 
sition and  Duties  of  the  American  Scholar."  It  was 
reprinted  in  Miss  Cobbe's  edition,  volume  seven.  Dis- 
courses of  Social  Science. 

Page  6,  note  1.  The  founder  of  the  Hopkins 
fund  was  Edward  Hopkins,  born  in  Shrewsbury, 
England,  1600,  educated  in  its  Royal  Free  Grammar 
School,  became  a  successful  London  merchant,  turned 
Puritan,  migrated  to  New  England,  joined  in  the 
settlement  of  Connecticut,  was  secretary  of  the  colony 
in  1638,  and  was  alternately  governor  and  lieutenant 
governor  from  1640  to  about  1655.  He  went  to  Eng- 
land in  1653,  and  died  in  London,  March,  1657.  In 
his  will  he  left  his  estate  in  New  England,  valued  at 
about  £20,000,  after  the  decease  of  his  wife,  "for  the 
breeding  of  hopeful  youths  both  at  the  grammar  school 
and  college  for  the  better  service  of  the  country  in 
future  times."  About  £1,000  went  to  the  grammar 
schools  of  Hartford,  New  Haven,  and  Hadley.  By  a 
decree  in  chauncery  £500  went  to  Harvard  College  in 
1710.  This  money  was  invested  in  the  purchase  of  a 
township  belonging  to  the  "praying  Indians,"  now 
comprising  Hopkinton  (named  after  the  donor j  and 
parts  of  Upton  and  HoUiston,  in  Worcester  county, 
Massachusetts.  Of  the  money  accruing  from  this 
land  three-fourths  went  to  Harvard  College  and  one- 
fourth  to  the  Cambridge  Grammar  School. 

499 


500  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Page  1^,  note  2.  The  political  term  doughface, 
meaning  a  person  who  is  pliable  and  facing  all  ways, 
was  first  used  by  John  Randolph  of  Roanoke.  He 
first  spelled  it  doe,  using  it  of  those  timid  persons  not 
having  the  courage  of  their  convictions.  It  was  ap- 
plied to  northern  men  friendly  to  slavery,  who  were 
open  to  political  influence,  and  modified  their  actions 
to  suit  occasions  and  personal  interests.  It  was  also 
sometimes  applied  to  southern  men  willing  to  conciliate 
the  northern  demands.  During  the  discussion  of  the 
Missouri  bill,  in  1820,  several  northern  men  voted  with 
the  southern  members  of  the  House,  and  Randolph 
called  them  doughfaces.  Another  account  says  that 
several  southern  men  voted  to  exclude  slavery  from  the 
territories,  and  were  called  doughfaces  by  Randolph. 
He  termed  this  action  "a  dirty  bargain."  The  atti- 
tude of  Randolph  was  well  expressed  in  a  letter  he 
wrote  February  24,  1820:  —  "These  Yankees  have 
almost  reconciled  me  to  negro  slavery.  They  have 
produced  a  revulsion  even  on  my  mind ;  what  then 
must  the  effect  be  on  them  who  had  no  scruples  on  the 
subject?  I  am  persuaded  that  the  cause  of  humanity, 
to  these  unfortunates  has  been  put  back  a  century, 
certainly  a  generation,  by  the  unprincipled  conduct  of 
ambitious  men,  availing  themselves  of  a  good,  as  well 
as  a  fanatical  spirit  in  the  nation." — The  Life  of  John 
Randolph  of  Roanoke,  by  Hugh  A.  Garland,  New 
York,  Appletons,  1850,  vol.  II,  p.  133. 

Page  15,  note  3,  To  sign  off  from  the  church  was 
a  term  used  in  the  American  colonies  during  the 
eighteenth  century,  after  the  process  had  begun  that 
led  to  the  separation  of  state  and  church.  When  a 
person  was  no  longer  willing  to  continue  his  connect 
tion  with  the  church  established  by  law  he  could  sign 
a  statement  requesting  that  his  share  of  the  church  tax 
should  be  assigned  to  the  congregation  of  his  prefer- 
ence, which  was  always  one  not  sanctioned  by  the  state 
in  any  other  manner. 


NOTES  501 

"  When  the  legislature  at  Boston  broke  in  upon 
their  own  exempting,  law,  in  1752,  the  Baptists  were 
so  much  alarmed  as  to  call  several  meetings,  and  to 
elect  John  Proctor  their  agent  to  carry  their  case  to 
England ;  and  he  drew  a  remonstrance  upon  the  sub- 
ject, which  was  presented  to  the  Assembly  at  Boston, 
in  May,  1754.  It  stated  matters  so  plainly  that  a 
motion  was  made  by  some  to  take  the  signers  of  it  into 
custody ;  but  Governor  Shirley,  newly  returned  from 
Europe,  convinced  them  of  the  impolicy  of  such  a 
step ;  and  then  they  appointed  a  committee  to  confer  in 
a  friendly  way  with  the  Baptists ;  and  matters  were 
shifted  along  until  the  war  came  on,  and  their  de- 
sign in  England  was  dropped.  At  length  all  their 
exempting  laws  for  Baptists  and  Quakers  expired,  and 
the  Assembly  of  November  23,  1757,  made  a  new  one 
wherein  both  denominations  were  again  included  in  one 
act.  By  it  no  Baptists  were  to  be  exempted  from  min- 
isterial taxes  in  the  places  where  they  lived,  '  but  such 
whose  names  shall  be  contained  in  a  list  or  lists  to  be 
taken  and  exhibited  on  or  before  the  20th  of  July  an- 
nually, to  the  assessors  of  such  town,  district,  precinct 
or  parish,  and  signed  by  three  principal  members  of 
the  Anabaptist  church  to  w^iich  he  or  they  belong, 
and  the  minister  thereof,  if  any  there  be,  who  shall 
therein  certify  that  the  persons  whose  names  are  in- 
serted in  the  said  list  or  lists  are  really  belonging 
thereto,  that  they  verily  believe  them  to  be  conscien- 
tiously of  their  persuasion,  and  that  they  frequently 
and  usually  attend  public  worship  in  said  church  on 
the  Lord's  days.'  And  the  like  was  required  of  the 
Quakers.  It  was  continued  in  force  thirteen  years ; 
and  no  tongue  nor  pen  can  fully  describe  all  the  evils 
that  were  practiced  under  it." —  A  History  of  New 
England,  with  particular  reference  to  the  Denomina- 
tion of  Christians  called  Baptists,  by  Isaac  Backus. 
Second  ed.,  1871,  vol.  II,  pp.  140-141.     This  is  one 


502  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

instance  of  many  laws  enacted  in  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury, and,  up  to  the  time  of  the  separation  of  church 
and  state  in  Massachusetts,  which  took  place  in  1834. 
The  later  laws,  which  enabled  the  individual  member 
of  a  parish  to  withdraw  from  the  payment  of  church 
taxes,  established  more  especially  the  designation  of 
"  signing  off." 

Page  15,  note  ^.  Polk  and  Taylor  were  opposed 
to  the  United  States  Bank,  and  helped  to  destroy  it. 
Polk  opposed  its  recharter,  and  in  a  letter  written  in 
1829  he  said  he  was  irreconcilably  opposed  to  the  ex- 
istence of  such  an  institution,  denied  its  constitution- 
ality and  its  expediency.  He  at  first  favored  the 
State  Bank  system,  but  later  opposed  it  in  favor  of 
an  independent  treasury  as  most  desirable  for  the  na- 
tional government. 

Page  19,  note  5.  The  lyceum  was  a  very  important 
institution  for  general  education  at  the  time  this  ad- 
dress was  given.  It  began  in  1826  in  Massachusetts 
and  Connecticut,  and  extended  widely  throughout  the 
country.  Many  town  lyceums  were  organized,  which 
were  combined  into  county,  state,  and  finally  a  national 
organization.  In  the  cities  these  often  took  the  form 
of  mechanics'  institutes.  See  Cooke's  Emerson,  and 
Old  South  Leaflets,  vol.  VI,  no.  139,  pp.  293-312. 

Page  20,  note  6.  Most  of  the  first  State  Constitu- 
tions, following  the  Declaration  of  Independence,  have 
a  Bill  of  Rights  at  the  beginning,  which  sets  forth 
fundamental  political  principles,  and  guarantees  the 
rights  of  the  individual  which  it  was  thought  neces- 
sary to  have  assured.  These  rights  were  those  of  free 
press,  speech,  trial  by  jury,  no  oppressive  taxation, 
protection  from  unwarranted  search,  habeas  corpus, 
and  several  others,  varying  in  different  States.  The 
National  Constitution  did  not  set  out  with  such  a 
guarantee,  and  this  nearly  resulted  in  its  failure  to 
secure  the  necessary  majority  for  its  adoption. 


NOTES  503 

Page  '20,  note  7.  Such  metaph^^sical  fruit  may  be 
seen  not  only  in  the  writings  of  Jonathan  Edwards  and 
Samuel  Hopkins,  but  in  the  earlier  works  of  John 
Wise.  Later  it  appeared  in  Jonathan  Mayhew  and 
Channing.  Other  names  might  be  mentioned  to  jus- 
tify the  statement. 

Page  26,  note  8.  "  Up  for  California  "  refers  to 
the  keen  interest,  at  the  time  this  address  was  given, 
incident  to  the  discovery  of  gold. 

Page  27,  note  9.  It  is  not  known  when  the  figure 
of  a  codfish  was  first  placed  over  the  Speaker's  chair 
in  the  Massachusetts  House  of  Representatives  as  em- 
blematic of  the  then  chief  industry  of  the  colony. 
Tradition  carries  it  back  to  the  beginning  of  the 
eighteenth  century.  It  was  there  from  1773,  and  was 
transferred  to  the  new  house  in  1798.  In  1895  it 
was  transferred  to  the  then  new  chamber.  See  all 
that  is  known  on  the  subject  in  "  A  History  of  the 
Emblem  of  the  Codfish  in  the  Hall  of  Representatives, 
compiled  by  a  Committee  of  the  House,"  Boston,  State 
Printers,  1895. 

Page  31,  note  10.  In  1849  the  four  most  impor- 
tant American  periodicals  were  the  North  American 
Review,  Christian  Examiner,  Democratic  Review,  and 
New  Englander.  Those  of  England  were  the  Quar- 
terly, British  and  Foreign,  Critical,  and  Monthly  Re- 
views. Others  might  be  named,  but  these  indicate  the 
force  of  the  comparison. 

Page  37,  note  11.  In  1848  the  United  States  gov- 
ernment sent  the  store-ship  "  Supply  "  on  an  expedi- 
tion to  survey  the  Dead  Sea.  The  commander  of  the 
expedition,  by  whom  it  was  planned,  was  a  lieutenant 
in  the  Navy.  The  results  were  published  in  a  "  Nar- 
rative of  the  United  States  Expedition  to  the  River 
Jordan  and  the  Dead  Sea,"  by  W.  F.  Lynch,  U.  S.  N., 
Philadelphia,  1849-  In  the  Smithsonian  Institution 
and  the  Bureau   of  Ethnology   the   national   govern- 


604  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ment   has    since    done    extended    and    important   work 
along  the  hnes  of  research  suggested  by  Parker. 

Page  37,  note  1'2.  Perhaps  the  most  important  of 
these  hves  of  fugitive  slaves  was  that  of  Frederick 
Douglas,  whose  "  Narrative  "  was  published  in  1845, 
"  My  Bondage  and  My  Freedom,"  1855,  and  "  Life 
and  Times  of  Frederick  Douglas,"  1882.  The  first 
of  such  narratives,  however,  was  "  Walker's  Appeal," 
published  in  Boston  in  1829.  He  was  bom  in  North 
Carolina  of  a  slave  father  and  free  mother,  traveled 
extensively  in  the  South,  and  knew  intimately  the 
condition  of  the  slaves.  He  kept  a  shop  in  Boston 
for  second-hand  clothes,  and  published  his  own  work 
for  free  distribution.  It  created  much  stir  in  the 
South.  Rev.  Samuel  Ringgold  Ward  published  his 
"  Autobiography  of  a  Fugitive  Negro,"  in  1855.  He 
was  a  protege  of  Gerrit  Smith,  and  was  a  man  of  much 
ability.  Rev.  W.  H.  Furness  said  of  one  of  his  ad- 
dresses, at  an  anti-slavery  meeting  in  New  York,  that 
"  his  speech  was  such  a  strain  of  eloquence  as  I  never 
heard  excelled  before  or  since."  Several  other  such 
books  were  published  from  1830  to  1860. 

Page  38,  note  13.  Many  attempts  were  made  to 
annex  Cuba  and  other  territory  to  the  south  of  the 
United  States  during  the  period  of  the  anti-slavery 
agitation,  especially  after  the  South  learned  it  could 
not  introduce  slavery  into  the  western  territories. 
Most  of  the  histories  of  the  period  deal  with  these 
attempts. 

II 

RALPH  WALDO  EMERSON 

This  critical  and  appreciative  survey  of  the  writ- 
ings of  Emerson  appeared  in  the  Massachusetts  Quar- 
terly Review  for  March,  1850.  It  bore  the  title  of 
"  The  Writings  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson."  At  the 
head  of  the  article  as  it  appeared  in  the  Review  was  a 


NOTES  505 

list  of  Emerson  works  which  had  then  been  pubHshed, 
as  follows : — 

Nature.      Boston,  1836,  1  vol.  12mo. 

Essays.  By  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  Boston,  1841, 
1  vol.  12mo. 

Essays,  Second  Series.  By  Ralph  Waldo  Emer- 
son, 1844,  1  vol.  12mo. 

Poems.  By  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  1847,  1  vol. 
12mo. 

Nature,  Addresses  and  Orations.  By  Ralph  Waldo 
Emerson,  1849,  1  vol. 

Representative  Men :  Seven  Lectures.  By  R.  W. 
Emerson,  1850,  1  vol.  12m. 

This  review  was  included  by  Miss  Cobbe  in  her  edi- 
tion, vol.  II,  Critical  Writings.  It  has  not  otherwise 
been  reprinted. 

An  account  of  the  origin  and  history  of  the  Massa- 
chusetts Quarterly  Review  is  to  be  found  in  the  tenth 
chapter  of  Weiss's  Life  and  Correspondence,  and  in 
Cabot's  Emerson.  The  first  number  appeared  in  De- 
cember, 1847,  and  it  was  continued  for  three  years. 
It  was  proposed  that  Emerson  should  be  the  editor,  but 
he  wrote  only  the  "  Editors'  Address "  in  the  first 
number,  and  two  book  reviews  in  subsequent  issues. 
The  other  editor  was  James  Elliot  Cabot,  who  wrote 
Emerson's  biography  many  years  after,  and  edited 
some  of  his  later  volumes.  Much  of  the  real  work  of 
the  Review  fell  on  Parker,  and  he  wrote  for  nearly 
every  number,  furnishing  two  articles  to  some  issues, 
and  many  book  reviews  to  all.  Several  of  his  con- 
tributions to  its  pages  appear  in  the  present  volume. 
Among  the  ^vriters  were  Lowell,  Phillips,  Sumner, 
Weiss,  and  other  liberal  men ;  but  the  pay  was  too 
small,  if  anything  at  all,  to  command  the  constant  ef- 
fort of  the  best  talent. 

All  the  biographies  of  Parker  bear  testimony  to  the 
close  relations  of  Emerson  and  Parker,  and  their  writ- 


506  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ings  indicate  how  wide  apart  they  were  in  much  of 
their  thinking.  The  words  spoken  by  Emerson  in 
memory  of  Parker  after  his  death  sufficiently  prove 
his  regard  for  his  friend.  These  words  were  spoken 
in  Music  Hall,  June  15,  I860,  and  may  be  found  in 
the  centenary  edition  of  Emerson's  works.  At  a 
time  when  Emerson  was  still  condemned  and  misrep- 
resented Parker  wrote  this  worthy  testimony  to  his 
genius,  appraising  his  intellectual  qualities  and  his 
philosophy  of  life ;  and  quoting  from  him  in  a  manner 
to  attract  the  attention  of  those  who  had  not  hitherto 
been  drawn  to  his  teachings. 

Parker's  admiration  for  Emerson  began  very  early, 
as  is  seen  in  what  he  wrote  in  his  journal  after  hear- 
ing the  Divinity  School  Address. 

"Sunday,  July  15,  1838.— Proceeded  to  Cam- 
bridge to  hear  the  valedictory  sermon  by  Mr.  Emer- 
son. In  this  he  surpassed  himself  as  much  as  he  sur- 
passes others  in  the  general  way.  I  shall  give  no 
abstract.  So  beautiful,  so  just,  so  true,  and  terribly 
sublime  was  his  picture  of  the  faults  of  the  church  in 
its  present  position.  My  soul  is  roused,  and  this  week 
I  shall  write  the  long-meditated  sermons  on  the  state 
of  the  church  and  the  duties  of  these  times." 

In  his  "  Historic  Notes  of  Life  and  Letters  in  New 
England  "  Emerson  gave  a  most  appreciative  and  yet 
critical  estimate  of  Parker  and  his  work,  and  none  more 
just  has  been  written.  In  his  tribute  after  Parker's 
death,  he  said: 

"  Theodore  Parker  was  a  son  of  the  soil,  charged 
with  the  energy  of  New  England,  strong,  eager,  in- 
quisitive of  knowledge,  of  a  diligence  that  never  tired, 
upright,  of  a  haughty  independence,  yet  the  gentlest 
of  companions ;  a  man  of  study,  fit  for  a  man  of  the 
world;  with  decided  opinions  and  plenty  of  power  to 
state  them ;  rapidly  pushing  his  studies  so  far  as  to 
leave  few  men  qualified  to  sit  as  his  critics.     He  elected 


NOTES  507 

his  part  of  duty,  or  accepted  nobly  that  assigned  him 
in  his  rare  constitution.  Wonderful  acquisition  of 
knowledge,  a  rapid  wit  that  heard  all,  and  welcomed  all 
that  came,  by  seeing  its  bearing.  .  .  .  He  had  a 
strong  understanding,  a  logical  method,  a  love  for 
facts,  a  rapid  e^^e  for  their  historic  relations,  and  a 
skill  in  stripping  them  of  traditional  lustres.  He  had 
a  sprightly  fancy,  and  often  amused  himself  with 
throwing  his  meaning  into  pretty  apologues ;  yet  we 
can  hardly  ascribe  to  his  mind  the  poetic  element, 
though  his  scholarship  had  made  him  a  reader  and 
quoter  of  verses." 

In  view  of  the  high  praise  of  Emerson  in  this  tribute 
it  is  most  interesting  to  consider  what  he  says  in  de- 
preciation of  what  he  regards  as  Parker's  tendency 
to  overpraise  his  friends :  "  He  never  kept  back 
the  truth  for  fear  to  make  an  enemy.  But,  on  the 
other  hand,  it  was  complained  that  he  was  bitter  and 
harsh,  that  his  zeal  burned  with  too  hot  a  flame.  It 
is  so  difficult,  in  evil  times,  to  escape  this  charge!  for 
the  faithful  preacher  most  of  all.  It  was  his  merit, 
like  Luther,  Knox,  and  Latimer,  and  John  Baptist, 
to  speak  tart  truth,  when  that  was  peremptory  and 
when  there  were  few  to  say  it.  But  his  sympathy  for 
goodness  was  not  less  energetic.  One  fault  he  had, 
he  overestimated  his  friends, —  I  may  well  say  it, — 
and  sometimes  vexed  them  with  the  importunity  of  his 
good  opinion,  whilst  they  knew  better  the  ebb  which 
follows  unfounded  praise.  He  was  capable,  it  must 
be  said,  of  the  most  unmeasured  eulogies  on  those  he 
esteemed,  especially  if  he  had  any  jealousy  that  they 
did  not  stand  with  the  Boston  public  as  highly  as 
they  ought.  His  commanding  merit  as  a  reformer  is 
this,  that  he  insisted  beyond  all  men  in  pulpits  —  I 
cannot  think  of  one  rival  —  that  the  essence  of  Chris- 
tianity is  its  practical  morals ;  it  is  there  for  use,  or  it 
is  nothing." 


508  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Page  55,  note  1.  George  Steevens,  1737-1800,  a 
commentator  on  Shakespeare.  His  edition,  with  the 
help  of  Dr.  Johnson,  appeared  in  1773,  revised  and 
enlarged  in  1778.  He  did  other  important  editorial 
work. 

Page  66,  note  2.  It  is  probable  this  reference  was 
to  Christopher  Pearse  Cranch,  1815-1892.  He 
worked  as  a  painter  in  Italy,  New  York,  and  Paris. 
His  work  deserved  Parker's  praise.  He  was  also  a 
poet,  and  published  much,  including  "  The  Bird  and 
the  Bell  "  and  "  Ariel  and  Caliban." 

Page  66,  note  S.  This  younger  man,  it  may  be 
assumed,  was  either  James  Russell  Lowell  or  George 
William  Curtis. 

Page  67,  note  Jf.  It  may  be  possible  to  guess  who 
was  meant  by  this  scathing  criticism,  but  it  could  be 
nothing  more  than  conjecture. 

Page  70,  note  5.  Under  the  title  of  "  Ethnical 
Scriptures  "  Emerson  gave  much  attention  in  "  The 
Dial  "  to  the  religious  writings  of  India,  Persia,  China, 
and  other  oriental  countries.  The  first  of  these  ap- 
peared in  the  very  first  number  edited  by  him,  that  for 
July,  1842,  and  was  a  series  of  selections  from  the 
"  Veeshnoo  Sarma."  The  issue  for  January,  1843, 
contained  selections  from  Manu,  and  that  for  July,  first 
using  the  general  title  of  Ethnical  Scriptures,  was  ex- 
tracted from  the  Desatir.  Other  selections  were  from 
the  Kings,  Preaching  of  Buddha,  Hermes  Trismegis- 
tus,  and  the  Chaldean  Oracles.  Some  of  these  se- 
lections were  made  by  Thoreau.  This  was  one  of  the 
earliest  attempts  in  this  country  to  make  the  public 
familiar  with  the  sacred  books  of  the  world,  other  than 
the  Hebrew  and  Christian. 

Page  71,  note  6.  In  later  editions  this  sentence 
reads,  "  I  am  glad  to  the  brink  of  fear." 

Page  7Jf.,  note  7.  This  was  perhaps  at  a  meeting 
of  the  Boston  Association  of  Ministers  after  the  Di- 


NOTES  609 

vlnity  School  Address.  Cabot  says  in  the  Memoir, 
page  334,  that  "  among  the  ministers  who  came  to- 
gether at  the  Thursday  lecture  there  was  a  good  deal 
of  stir,  which  communicated  itself  to  the  circles  they 
influenced.  Hard  words  were  said,  and  when  the  ad- 
dress appeared  in  print  it  was  sharply  attacked  in  the 
Daily  Advertiser  by  Andrews  Norton." 

Page  75,  note  8.  James  Usher,  1580—1656,  was 
archbishop  of  Annagh,  intimately  connected  with  the 
University  of  Dublin,  founded  by  his  uncle  Henry 
Usher,  also  archbishop  of  Annagh.  Usher  was  a 
theologian  of  prominence.  John  Selden,  1584—1654, 
was  a  famous  jurist,  antiquary,  and  oriental  scholar, 
whose  Table-talk  is  one  of  the  famous  English  books. 
See  John  Selden  and  his  Table-Talk,  by  Robert  Wat- 
ers, for  an  interesting  account  of  him  and  his  rela- 
tions to  Usher.  Inigo  Jones,  the  famous  English 
architect,  1572—1651,  designed  many  important 
buildings,  and  planned  the  repairs  of  St.  Paul  begun 
in  1633. 

Page  85y  note  9.  These  were  the  lectures  now  pub- 
lished in  the  Conduct  of  Life. 

Page  llJf,  note  10-  This  line  was  afterwards 
changed  to 

"  Has  turned  my  child's  head?  " 
Page  115,    note  11.     These   lines   were  revised   to 
read, 

"  To  vision  profounder, 

Man's  spirit  must  dive; 
His  aye-rolling  orb 

At  no  goal  will  arrive." 
Page  115,  note  12.     These  lines  now  read, 
"  Lurks  the  joy  that  is  sweetest 
In  stings  of  remorse." 

Page  118,  note  13.     This  line  now  reads, 
"  He  who  loves,  of  gods  or  men." 


510  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Page  119,  note  i^.  Emerson  uses  these  and  other 
names  in  a  symbolical  and  mystical  sense.  They  are 
names  from  mythology,  legend,  early  poetry  or  biog- 
raphy. Most  of  them  have  been  explained  in  William 
Sloane  Kennedy's  "  Clews  to  Emerson's  Mystic 
Verse,"  published  in  The  American  Author  for  June, 
1903.  They  have  also  been  elaborately  interpreted  in 
The  Arena  by  Charles  Malloy. 

Ill 

WILLIAM  ELLERY  CHANNING 

Parker  had  already  spoken  of  Dr.  Channing  in  a 
sermon  on  the  occasion  of  his  death.  The  present 
survey  of  his  life,  character,  and  works  was  called  out 
by  the  appearance  of  an  elaborate  biography : 

Memoir  of  William  Ellery  Channing,  with  Extracts 
from  his  Correspondence  and  Manuscripts.  In  three 
volumes.     Boston,  Crosby  and  Nichols,  1848. 

This  memoir  was  prepared  by  a  nephew,  William 
Henry  Channing,  whose  biography  has  been  extendedly 
written  by  O.  B.  Frothingham.  Parker's  review  of 
this  memoir  was  published  in  the  Massachusetts  Quar- 
terly Review  for  September,  1848.  Miss  Cobbe  in- 
cluded it  in  her  second  volume,  entitled  Critical  Writ- 
ings. 

Page  156,  note  1.  It  has  been  often  asserted  that 
Thomas  Jefferson  had  children  by  the  negro  women 
slaves  on  his  plantation  at  Monticello.  The  proof  has 
not  been  furnished,  though  the  gossip  has  been  per- 
sistent. "  The  chief  offender  among  newspapers  was 
the  Richmond  Recorder,  edited  by  a  Scotchman 
named  Callender,  who  sought  an  asylum  in  this  coun- 
try to  escape  punishment  for  libels  published  in  Eng- 
land. He  was  not  here  long  before  he  was  arrested 
and  imprisoned  under  the   sedition  act   and  was   one 


NOTES  511 

of  those  whom  Jefferson  pardoned  on  the  day  that  he 
became  president.  This  incident  brought  him  per- 
sonally to  Jefferson's  acquaintance,  and  for  a  time  he 
proved  to  be  useful  to  the  Democratic  leaders  as  a 
writer.  Jefferson  defended  and  shielded  him  as  long 
as  his  patience  would  permit,  and  aided  him  from  time 
to  time  with  loans  of  money  that  were  never  repaid, 
but  was  finally  compelled  to  repudiate  him,  when  Cal- 
lender  turned  upon  his  benefactor.  .  .  .  He  was 
the  author  of  several  miserable  scandals  about  Wash- 
ington. He  attempted  to  blackmail  Jefferson  into 
making  him  postmaster  at  Richmond,  but  Jefferson 
had  the  moral  courage  to  refuse,  even  though  he  knew 
what  to  expect,  and  the  penalty  of  his  refusal  was  the 
publication  of  a  series  of  the  most  revolting  stories 
about  his  private  life,  which  were  copied  into  the  Fed- 
eralist newspapers  of  the  northern  states  with  what 
President  Cleveland  called  '  ghoulish  glee.'  Some  of 
these  stories  were  based  upon  local  gossip  at  Charlottes- 
ville, and  doubtless  had  a  slender  vein  of  truth,  a 
meagre  excuse  for  existence,  but  Callender's  vulgar 
and  malicious  mind  magnified  and  distorted  them. 
Jefferson  never  stooped  to  a  denial,  and  his  political 
opponents  chose  to  interpret  his  silence  as  an  admis- 
sion of  guilt.  He  w^as  probably  no  more  immoral  than 
Franklin,  Washington,  Hamilton,  and  other  men  of 
his  time.  He  was  neither  a  St.  Anthony  nor  a  Don 
Juan.  Judged  by  the  standard  of  his  generation,  his 
vices  were  those  of  a  gentleman,  and  such  as  did  not 
deprive  him  of  the  respect  and  confidence  of  the  com- 
munity. 

"  The  scandals  circulated  by  the  Federalist  news- 
papers were  so  generally  believed  that  Thomas  Moore, 
the  famous  Irish  poet,  accepted  them  as  true,  and, 
visiting  the  United  States  during  the  period  of  Jef- 
ferson's presidency,  wrote  some  verses  of  which  the 
following  is  a  sample: 


512  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

"  '  The  patriot,  fresh  from  Freedom's   councils  come. 
Now  pleas'd,  retires  to  lash  his  slaves  at  home ; 
Or  woo,  perhaps,  some  black  Aspasia's  charms 
And  dream  of  Freedom  in  his  bondmaid's  arms.'    ' 

*'  This  poem  may  be  found  in  the  London  edition 
of  the  Poetical  Works  of  Thomas  Moore  published 
in  1856,  and  is  embellished  by  a  foot-note  explaining 
that  the  President  of  the  United  States  was  referred  to. 

"  The  local  traditions  attributed  tO'  Jefferson  the 
paternity  of  a  distinguished  man  of  the  generation 
following  him  who  was  prominently  identified  in  the 
development  of  the  west,  and  whose  mother,  famous 
for  her  beauty  and  attractions,  lived  near  Monticello'. 
Her  husband  was  a  disolute  wretch  and  abandoned  her 
to  the  protection  of  friends.  Jefferson  looked  after 
her  interests,  advised  her  concerning  the  management 
of  her  little  property,  educated  her  son,  appointed  him 
to  office,  pushed  him  into  political  prominence,  fur- 
nished him  opportunities  for  advancement,  and  showed 
an  affectionate  solicitude  for  his  welfare.  It  is  char- 
itable to  suppose  that  this  was  due  to  a  friendly  rather 
than  a  paternal  interest. 

"  In  early  days,  and  up  to  a  recent  period,  nearly 
every  mulatto  by  the  name  of  Jefferson  in  Albemarle 
county,  and  they  were  numerous,  claimed  decent  from 
the  Sage  of  Monticello,  which  gratified  their  pride  but 
seriously  damaged  his  reputation.  Jefferson  does  not 
appear  to  have  taken  notice  of  these  scandals,  except 
in  a  single  instance.  During  the  campaign  of  1804 
a  respectable  mulatto  living  in  Ohio,  named  Madison 
Jennings,  boasted  that  he  was  a  son  of  the  president 
and  Sally  Jennings,  who  was  one  of  his  slaves,  and 
Jefferson  invoked  his  carefully  kept  record  of  vital 
statistics  at  Monticello'  to  prove  an  alibi.  The  date 
of  Madison  Jennings'  birth  made  it  impossible  for 
Jefferson  to  have  been  his  father,  and  Edward  Bacon, 
the  overseer  of  the  plantation,  made  a  statement  to  a 


NOTES  513 

clergyman  in  which  he  gave  circumstantial  evidence 
to  prove  Jefferson's  innocence." —  William  Elory  Cur- 
tis, The  True  Thomas  Jefferson,  pp.  311-313. 

Page  156,  note  ^.  Edward  Everett,  in  the  Gov- 
ernor's Address  of  1836  to  the  General  Court  of 
Massachusetts,  as  printed  in  the  Documents  of  the 
House  of  Representatives  of  that  year,  pages  29—31, 
said  on  this  subj  ect :  "  The  country  has  been  greatly 
agitated  during  the  past  year  in  relation  to  slavery, 
and  acts  of  illegal  violence  kindled  on  this  subject 
in  different  parts  of  the  Union,  which  cannot  be  too 
strongly  deplored.  ...  As  the  genius  of  our  in- 
stitutions and  the  character  of  our  people  are  entirely 
repugnant  to  laws  impairing  the  liberty  of  speech  or 
of  press,  even  for  the  sake  of  repressing  its  abuses, 
the  patriotism  of  all  classes  of  citizens  must  be  in- 
voked to  abstain  from  a  discussion  which,  by  exas- 
perating the  master,  can  have  no  other  effect  than  to 
render  more  oppressive  the  condition  of  the  slave ;  and 
which  if  not  abandoned,  there  is  great  reason  to  fear 
will  prove  the  rock  on  which  the  Union  will  split. 
Such  a  disastrous  consummation,  in  addition  to  all  its 
remediless  political  evils  for  every  state  of  the  Union, 
could  scarcely  fail,  sooner  or  later,  to  bring  on  a  war 
of  extermination  in  the  slaveholding  states.  On  the 
contrary,  a  conciliatory  forbearance  with  regard  to 
this  subject,  in  the  non-slaveholding  states,  would 
strengthen  the  hands  of  a  numerous  class  of  citizens  at 
the  south,  who  desire  the  removal  of  the  evil,  whose 
voice  has  often  been  heard  for  its  abolition  in  legis- 
lative assemblies,  but  who  are  struck  down  and  si- 
lenced by  the  agitation  of  the  question  abroad;  and  it 
would  leave  this  whole  painful  subject  where  the  Con- 
stitution leaves  it,  and  in  the  hands  of  an  all  wise 
Providence."  See  James  Freeman  Clarke's  Anti-Slav- 
ery Days,  page  103. 

Fage  156,  note  3.     Harriet  Martineau,  in  her  "  So- 


514  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

ciety  in  America,"  vol.  I,  pages  126—127,  American 
ed.  of  1837,  describes  this  event:  "Upon  consulta- 
tion the  ladies  agreed  that  they  should  never  have 
sought  the  perilous  duty  of  defending  liberty  of  opin- 
ion and  speech  at  the  last  crisis ;  but  as  such  a  service 
seemed  manifestly  appointed  to  them  the  women  were 
ready.  On  the  21st  of  October  they  met  at  the  office 
of  their  association  [Boston  Female  Anti-slavery  So- 
ciety], 46  Washington  street.  Twenty-five  reached 
the  room  by  going  three-quarters  of  an  hour  before 
the  appointed  time.  Five  more  made  their  way  up 
with  difficulty  through  the  crowd.  A  hundred  more 
were  turned  back  by  the  mob.  They  knew  that  a 
handbill  had  been  circulated  on  the  Exchange  and 
posted  on  the  City  Hall  and  throughout  the  city  the 
day  before,  which  had  declared  that  Thompson,  the 
abolitionist,  was  to  address  them,  and  invited  the  citi- 
zens, under  promise  of  pecuniary  reward,  to  '  smoke 
Thompson  out  and  bring  him  to  a  tar-kettle  before 
dark.'  The  ladies  had  been  warned  that  they  would 
be  killed,  '  as  sure  as  fate,'  if  they  showed  themselves 
on  their  own  premises  that  day.  They  therefore  in- 
formed the  mayor  that  they  expected  to  be  attacked. 
The  reply  of  the  city  marshal  was,  '  You  give  us  a 
great  deal  of  trouble.'  The  committee-room  was  sur- 
rounded, and  gazed  into  by  a  howling,  shrieking  mob 
of  gentlemen,  while  the  ladies  sat  perfectly  still,  await- 
ing the  striking  of  the  clock.  When  it  struck,  they 
opened  their  meeting.  They  were  questioned  as  to 
whether  Thompson  was  there  in  disguise,  to  which  they 
made  no  reply.  They  began  as  usual  with  prayer. 
The  mob  shouting,  *  Hurra !  here  comes  Judge 
Lynch ! '  Before  they  had  done  the  partition  gave 
way,  and  the  gentlemen  hurled  themselves  at  the  lady 
who  was  presiding.  The  secretary  having  risen,  and 
begun  to  read  her  report,  rendered  inaudible  by  the  up- 
roar, the  mayor  entered,  and  insisted  on  their  going 


NOTES  515 

home  to  save  their  lives.  The  purpose  of  the  meet- 
ing was  answered ;  they  had  asserted  their  principle, 
and  they  now  passed  out,  two  by  two,  amidst  the 
execration  of  some  thousands  of  gentlemen,  persons 
who  had  silver  shrines  to  protect.  The  ladies  to  the 
number  of  fifty  walked  to  the  house  of  one  of  their 
number,  and  were  presently  struck  to  the  heart  by  the 
news  that  Garrison  was  in  the  hands  of  the  mob." 
This  was  the  '  mob  of  gentlemen  of  property  and 
standing,'  dressed  in  broadcloth,  who  attacked  Gar- 
rison immediately  following  this  episode. 

Page  156,  note  -4.  Garrison  wrote  to  George  W. 
Benson,  September  17,  1835 :  "  I  suppose  you  have 
heard  of  the  presentation  of  a  stout  gallows  to  me,  at 
23  Brighton  street,  Boston,  by  order  of  Judge  Lynch. 
It  was  destroyed  by  the  city  authorities.  I  regret  that 
it  was  not  preserved  for  our  Anti-slavery  Museum. 
Thompson  has  presented  a  brickbat  to  it,  but  this 
would  have  been  a  more  substantial  curiosity."  Gar- 
rison's biography  by  his  children,  vol.  I,  page  519. 

Page  156 y  note  5.  The  Georgia  Senate,  Novem- 
ber 30,  1831,  passed  a  resolution  offering  a  reward  of 
$5000  to  any  person  "  who  shall  arrest,  bring  to  trial 
and  prosecute  to  conviction  under  the  laws  of  this 
state  the  editor  of  a  certain  paper  called  the  Lib- 
erator." The  proclamation  of  the  governor  was  based 
on  this  resolution,  and  was  continued  without  being 
rescinded  for  several  years.  Garrison's  Life  by  his 
children,  vol.  I,  page  249. 

Page  156,  note  6.  This  reference  is  to  vol.  II,  page 
89,  of  the  Memoir  of  Dr.  Channing,  by  W.  H.  Chan- 
ning. 

Page  157,  note  7.  The  Autobiography  of  Dr.  Ly- 
man Beecher  will  afford  a  good  illustration  of  this 
tendency  to  condemn  Unitarianism.  He  writes  of  it, 
vol.  II,  page  53.  "  It  was  as  fire  in  my  bones ;  my 
mind  was  heating,  heating,  heating."   Again,  page  56: 


616  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

"  It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  add  that  the  system  of 
Unitarianism,  in  all  its  forms,  Dr.  Beecher  regarded 
as  the  deadly  foe  of  human  happiness,  whose  direct 
tendency  was  to  prevent  true  conviction  and  conver- 
sion, and  leave  men  bound  hand  and  foot  under  the 
power  of  the  adversary.  He  could  not  be  loyal  to 
Christ,  benevolent  to  men,  or  true  to  his  own  convic- 
tions without  making  war  on  such  a  system." 

Page  161,  note  8.  This  was  not  the  general  opin- 
ion of  the  men  of  Channing's  own  period.  George 
Ticknor,  traveling  in  Europe,  and  dining  daily  with 
the  arbiters  of  opinion  in  all  countries,  wrote  home 
to  Boston  in  1836 :  "  Channing's  is  already  much 
greater  than  I  had  supposed,  not  so  extra  live  as  that 
of  Washington  Irving,  but  almost  as  much  so,  and 
decidedly  higher.  .  .  .  Mrs.  Somerville,  Miss 
Joanna  Bailey,  and  several  other  persons,  declaring  to 
me  that  he  was  generally  regarded  as  the  best  writer 
of  EngHsh  prose  alive."  In  April,  1838,  Mr.  Tick- 
nor dined  at  Lord  Holland's,  with  Pazzo  di  Borgo 
and  the  Earl  of  Albemarle,  and  he  noted  that  "  Lord 
Holland,  Lord  Albemarle,  and  Mr.  Allen  talked  about 
Dr.  Channing  as  the  best  writer  of  English  alive." 
Dr.  Chalmers  praised  Channing  for  his  intellectual 
power  and  eloquence ;  and  Turguenev  was  a  great  ad- 
mirer of  Channing.  See  George  Ticknor's  Life,  Let- 
ters and  Journals. 

IV 

PRESCOTT  AS  AN  HISTORIAN 

The  sixth  number  of  the  Massachusetts  Quarterly 
Review,  for  March,  1849,  contained  Parker's  discus- 
sion of  the  Character  of  Mr.  Prescott  as  an  Historian. 
The  following  books  were  placed  in  review,  and  their 
titles  were  printed  at  the  beginning  of  the  article: 

The  History  of  the  Reign  of  Ferdinand  and  Isa- 


NOTES  51T 

bella  the  Catholic.  By  Wmiam  H.  Prescott,  &c.,  &c. 
Boston,  1838.      3  vols.  8vo. 

History  of  the  Conquest  of  Mexico,  with  a  Pre- 
liminary View  of  the  Ancient  Mexican  Civilization  and 
the  Life  of  the  Conquerer,  Hernando  Cortes.  By 
WilHam  H.  Prescott,  &c.,  &c.  New  York,  1845.  3 
vols.  8vo. 

History  of  the  Conquest  of  Peru,  with  a  Prelimi- 
nary View  of  the  Civilization  of  the  Incas.  By  Wil- 
liam H.  Prescott,  &c.,  &c.  New  York,  1847.  2  vols. 
8vo. 

This  review  was  reprinted  by  Miss  Cobbe  in  the  sec- 
ond volume  of  her  edition,  entitled  Critical  Writings. 
In  his  Life  and  Correspondence,  vol.  II,  page  10, 
Weiss  says  of  the  manner  in  which  this  and  the  suc- 
ceeding article  were  prepared :  "  Before  he  under- 
took to  review  Mr.  Prescott's  popular  histories  he 
spent  all  the  leisure  time  which  he  could  command 
during  seven  months,  in  reading  the  authorities.  He 
read  everything  excepting  some  MSS.  in  the  posses- 
sion of  Mr.  Prescott  himself,  and  thus  he  verified 
nearly  every  citation  made  in  the  eight  volumes  which 
were  under  review.  The  first  article  contains  an  ad- 
mirable statement  of  the  office  and  duty  of  an  his- 
torian. This  is  derived  from  his  own  humane  and 
philosophical  spirit,  criticizing  in  the  interest  of  the 
future  of  the  people  all  the  best  histories  yet  written  of 
the  past." 

The  biography  of  Prescott  was  written  by  George 
Ticknor,  Boston,  1864.  In  the  series  of  American 
Men  of  Letters  is  a  biographical  and  critical  study 
by  Rollo  Ogden ;  and  in  the  English  Men  of  Letters 
is  one  by  Harry  Thurston  Peck. 

Page  173,  note  1.  The  name  of  the  writer  of  this 
article  is  not  given  in  Poole's  Index  of  Periodical  Lit- 
erature.    It  appeared  in  vol.  64,  June,  1839. 

Page  189,  note  2.  The  review  of  the  work  on  Peru 
Wfts  not  written. 


518  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

V 

PRESCOTT'S  CONQUEST  OF  MEXICO 

In  his  first  article  on  Prescott  as  an  historian  Parker 
gave  special  attention  to  the  work  on  Ferdinand  and 
Isabella.  This  was  followed  in  the  Massachusetts 
Quarterly  Review  for  September,  1849,  by  the  pres- 
ent study  of  the  History  of  Mexico.  It  appears  that 
Parker  had  it  in  mind  to  write  also  of  the  History 
of  Peru,  but  this  article  was  not  produced.  The  Mex- 
ico was  reprinted  by  Miss  Cobbe  in  her  Critical  Writ- 
ings, the  second  volume  of  her  edition  of  Parker's 
works. 

Page  ^21,  note  1.  James  Cowles  Prichard,  1786- 
1848,  was  the  founder  of  the  science  of  ethnology  in 
England.  A  graduate  of  Oxford,  a  physician  in  Bris- 
tol, he  published  in  1813  his  "  Researches  into  the 
Physical  History  of  Man,"  two  volumes,  later  expanded 
to  five.  In  this  work  he  taught  the  unity  of  the  human 
species  as  acted  upon  by  causes  which  have  produced 
the  several  races.  He  showed  also  that  the  Celts  be- 
long to  the  Aryan  family  of  races.  This  idea  he  de- 
veloped, in  1831,  in  his  "  Eastern  Origin  of  the  Celtic 
Nations."  His  most  important  work  was  his  "  Nat- 
ural History  of  Man,"  1843,  which  is  still  a  standard 
for  ethnologists,  though  their  investigations  have  been 
widely  extended  since  his  day. 

VI 

HILDRETH'S  UNITED  STATES 

The  History  of  the  United  States,  by  Richard  Hil- 
dreth,  three  volumes,  New  York,  1849,  was  the  sub- 
ject of  a  critical  article  in  the  June  number  of  the 
Massachusetts   Quarterly  Review,   for   1850.     It  was 


NOTES  519 

written  in  the  same  spirit  as  the  articles  on  Prescott, 
though  perhaps  with  less  exacting  preparation.  Miss 
Cobbe  reprinted  it  in  the  Critical  Writings,  vol.  II,  of 
the  complete  works  edited  by  her. 

Richard  Hildreth  was  born  in  Deerfield,  Mass.,  June 
22,  1807.  He  graduated  at  Harvard,  studied  law, 
became  editor  of  the  Boston  Daily  Atlas,  which  repre- 
sented the  views  of  Rufus  Choate,  Caleb  Cushing,  and 
others  of  that  school  in  politics.  ^Favoring  General 
Harrison  for  president,  he  wrote  a  campaign  biog^ 
raphy  of  him  in  1839.  For  a  period  he  was  at 
Demerara,  British  Guiana,  as  an  editor,  and  wrote 
an  account  of  that  country.  On  his  return  he  was 
connected  with  the  New  York  Tribune  for  several 
years,  and  contributed  to  the  "  American  Cyclopedia." 
In  1861  he  was  made  consul  at  Trieste,  which  position 
ill-health  compelled  him  to  abandon,  and,  going  to 
Florence,  he  died  there  July  11,  1865.  He  wrote  the 
first  American  anti-slavery  novel,  "  The  Slave ;  or, 
Memoirs  of  Archy  Moore,"  1836.  It  was  reprinted 
as  "  The  White  Slave,"  1852.  He  also  published  a 
"  History  of  Banks,  Banking  and  Paper  Currency," 
1837;  "Despotism  of  America,"  1840;  "Theory  of 
Morals,"  1844;  "Japan  as  it  Was  and  Is,"  1855. 
He  added  three  volumes  to  his  "  History  of  the  United 
States,"  in  1852,  bringing  it  down  to  the  end  of  the 
first  term  of  ISIonroe's  administration.  The  work  is 
free  from  prejudice,  vigorous  in  criticism  of  men  and 
events,  and  fearless  in  stating  the  truth. 

Fage  ^270,  note  1.  Red  Republic  refers  to  the  name 
of  "  Red  Republicans  "  given  by  the  French  to  those 
who  held  radical  republican  doctrines,  which  they 
would  maintain  even  at  the  cost  of  bloodshed.  The 
term  "  bonnets  rouges  "  was  also  applied  to  them  be- 
cause of  the  red  caps  worn  at  the  period  of  the  revo- 
lution. 

Page  272,  note  2,     This  reference  to  those  who  were 


520  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

called  doughfaces  has  been  already  explained.  They 
faced  both  ways  as  between  the  political  issues  of  the 
day,  or  were  ready  to  turn  any  way  that  would  make 
to  their  own  advantage. 

Page  283,  note  3.  Michel  Chevalier  was  a  French 
economist  and  geographer,  who  visited  the  United 
States  in  1834.  Among  his  works  were  "  Des  interets 
materiels  en  France:  travaux  publics,"  Bruxelles, 
1838 ;  "  Cours  d'economie  politique,"  3  vols.,  Paris, 
1850;  "  Mexique,  ancien  et  modem,"  Paris,  1863; 
"  L'industrie  et  I'octroi  de  Paris,"  Paris,  1866 ;  and 
many  articles  on  geographical  and  economic  subjects. 
He  wrote  "  Lettre  sur  I'Amerique  du  Nord,"  S  vols., 
Bruxelles,  1837,  and  also  "  Histoire  et  description  des 
des  voies  de  communication  aux  Etats-Unis,"  2  vols., 
Paris,  1840—41.  It  is  the  first  of  these  works  to 
which  Parker  refers,  which  was  translated  as  "  Society, 
Manners,  and  Politics  in  the  United  States,  being 
a  series  of  letters  on  North  America,"  translated  from 
the  third  Paris  edition,  Boston,  1839.  Thomas 
Gamaliel  Bradford,  the  translator,  says  in  his  preface: 
'*  M.  Chevalier  was  sent  to  this  country  in  1834  under 
the  patronage  of  Thiers,  then  Minister  of  the  In- 
terior in  France,  to  inspect  our  public  works.  But, 
attracted  by  the  novel  spectacle  presented  by  society 
in  the  United  States,  he  extended  the  time  of  his  stay 
and  the  sphere  of  his  observations  amongst  us,  and 
spent  nearly  two  years  in  visiting  nearly  all  parts  of 
the  Union,  and  studying  the  workings  of  our  social 
and  political  machinery.  His  letters  gave  the  results 
of  his  observations,  the  impressions  made  on  his  mind, 
his  speculations  in  regard  to  the  future  destiny  of  our 
institutions,  rather  than  a  detailed  narrative  of  facts 
and  events,  which,  however,  is  introduced  when  neces- 
sary for  illustration  or  proof.  It  will  be  found  that 
M.  Chevalier  has  studied  with  diligence  and  sagacity, 
drawn  his  conclusions  with  caution  and  discrimination, 


NOTES  521 

and  stated  his  views  in  a  clear,  forcible,  and  interest- 
ing manner.  He  seems  to  be  perfectly  free  from  any 
narrowness  and  prejudice,  ready  to  recognize  whatever 
is  good  or  of  good  tendency,  whether  in  character, 
manners,  habits  or  opinions,  without  regard  to  mere 
personal  likes  or  dislikes,  and  to  be  equally  frank  in 
condemning,  whenever  he  perceives,  in  our  practices, 
a  violation  of  our  own  principles  or  of  those  of  an 
enlightened  philosophy.  He  tells  many  home  truths 
to  all  parties  and  classes.  .  .  ."  Chevalier's  work 
is  regarded  as  one  of  the  best  which  has  been  written 
about  the  United  States,  because  of  its  impartiality 
and  because  of  his  keenness  of  observation. 

Page  289,  note  Jf..  The  article  by  George  Raphall 
Noyes  on  Whether  the  Deity  of  the  Messiah  be  a 
Doctrine  of  the  Old  Testament,  published  in  the  Chris- 
tian Examiner  for  January,  1836,  is  that  indicated. 
The  Attorney  General  of  Massachusetts  talked  of 
prosecuting  the  author,  but  he  finally  decided  not  to 
do  so.  Dr.  Noyes,  1798-1868,  was  the  minister  of 
the  Unitarian  church  in  Petersham,  Mass.,  and  pro- 
fessor of  Hebrew  literature  and  other  oriental  lan- 
guages in  Harvard  College  after  1840.  He  pub- 
lished translations  of  the  New  Testament,  and  of  the 
poetical  books  of  the  Old  Testament. 

Page  289f  note  5.  Parker's  sermon  of  1841  at 
South  Boston,  on  the  Transient  and  Permanent  in 
Christianity,  was  threatened  in  this  manner.  It  was 
mere  newspaper  writing,  however. 

VII 

MACAULAY'S  HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND 

The  study  of  the  first  two  volumes  of  Macaulay's 
history  appeared  in  the  Massachusetts  Quarterly  Re- 
yieyr   for   June,    1849,    with   the   title,    "  Macaulay's 


522  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

History  of  England."  It  has  never  been  reprinted, 
having  been  for  some  unknown  reason  overlooked  by 
Miss  Cobbe. 

VIII 

BUCKLE'S  HISTORY  OF  CIVILIZATION 

Buckle's  first  volume  of  his  History  of  Civilization 
in  England,  London,  1857,  deeply  interested  Parker 
on  its  appearance ;  and  this  study  of  it  was  published 
in  the  Christian  Examiner  for  March,  1858,  vol.  64. 
This  monthly  review  succeeded  other  Unitarian  peri- 
odicals in  1824,  under  the  editorship  of  John  Gorham 
Palfrey.  At  the  time  of  the  publication  of  this  article 
the  editors  were  Frederic  H.  Hedge  and  Edward  Ever- 
ett Hale.  The  article  on  Buckle  was  included  by  Miss 
Cobbe  in  her  twelfth  volume,  Autobiographical  and 
Miscellaneous. 

Writing  to  Prof.  Henry  D.  Rogers  of  Edinburgh, 
on  December  29,  1857,  Parker  said  of  Buckle's  work, 
then  recently  published :  "  I  think  it  a  great  book, 
and  know  none  so  important  since  the  Novum  Or- 
ganum  of  Bacon.  I  mean  none  in  English.  Of 
course  I  except  the  Principia  of  Newton.  This  is  a 
Novum  Organum  in  the  department  of  history  —  the 
study  of  man ;  it  is  a  restauratio  maxima.  Nobody 
here  ever  heard  the  name  of  Henry  Thomas  Buckle 
before.  If  you  can  tell  me,  I  wish  you  would ;  and 
also  what  is  thought  of  the  book  in  that  northern 
Athens  where  you  dwell.  In  many  particulars  it  re- 
minds me  of  the  Vestiges  of  the  Natural  History  of 
Creation.  I  don't  always  agree  with  the  author,  even 
in  matters  of  '  great  pith  and  moment ;'  but  always 
think  him  a  great  man.  His  learning  also  is  admira- 
ble."—  Weiss,  vol.  I,  page  334. 

Parker  wrote  to  Buckle,  sent  him  his  article  and 
his  works.     Weiss  prints  at  the  end  of  his  first  volume 


NOTES  523 

the  letters  of  Buckle,  and  in  the  second  volume  are 
the  letters  which  passed  between  them  as  the  result 
of  Parker's  attempt  to  see  the  historian.  In  his  first 
letter  Buckle  stated  that  he  was  familiar  with  Parker's 
writings,  and  in  all  of  his  letters  his  expression  of 
admiration  was  considerable. 

The  two  volumes  of  the  "  Life  and  Writings  of 
Buckle,"  by  Alfred  Henry  Huth,  reprints  the  corre- 
spondence, and  indicates  the  appreciation  of  Parker  on 
the  part  of  Buckle  to  have  been  lively  and  most 
friendly,  in  so  far  as  their  brief  correspondence  made 
this  possible.  John  Mackinnon  Robertson,  in  his 
*'  Buckle  and  His  Critics,"  devotes  a  chapter  to  Parker 
and  his  article.  "  Parker's  criticism  seems  to  have 
been,  with  one  exception  [Saturday  Review,  July  11, 
1857,  by  a  Mr.  Sanders],  that  which  interested  Buckle 
the  most  of  those  which  he  lived  to  read,  and  it  might 
well  do  so,  being  the  performance  of  a  widely  read 
and  exceptionally  conscientious  critic."  He  speaks 
of  Parker's  painstaking,  with  a  quantity  of  result 
hardly  commensurate  wdth  the  copious  and  conscien- 
tious preparation.  Robertson  subjects  all  who  have 
written  of  Buckle  to  a  severe  arraignment,  with  rarest 
exceptions ;  and  his  dissent  from  Parker's  conclusions 
is  in  no  degree  singular  for  him. 

Buckle  appears  to  have  had  a  considerable  influence 
on  Parker's  later  thinking.  This  is  seen  in  the  series 
of  sermons  on  the  revelation  of  God  in  matter  and 
mind  which  is  printed  in  this  edition  of  Parker's 
works  for  the  first  time.  It  did  not  lessen  in  any  de- 
gree the  vigor  and  completeness  of  his  idealism,  but 
it  gave  him  an  enlarged  conception  of  man's  relations 
to  the  universe  and  the  influence  of  economic  conditions 
on  human  progress. 

Page  376,  note  1.  Azote,  nitrogen,  the  name  given 
it  by  Lavoisier,  and  still  used  in  France.  Azotized, 
nitrogenous. 


524  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Page  386,  note  %.  The  Crimean  war,  to  wMch 
Parker  often  made  reference  in  his  sermons  and  lec- 
tures. 

Fage  Ji-lO,  note  3.  Joseph  Francois  Lafitau,  1670- 
1746,  was  a  French  missionary  to  Canada.  In  1724! 
he  pubHshed  at  Rome,  in  two  volumes,  his  "  Moeurs 
des  sauvages  ameriquains  compares  aux  moeurs  des 
premiers  temps."  This  is  one  of  the  standard  early 
works  on  the  life  of  the  Indians.  Lord  Monboddo, 
1714-1799,  was  the  author  of  "  Origin  and  Progress 
of  Language,"  and  "  Ancient  Metaphysics."  He 
collected  facts  about  savage  peoples,  and  in  some  re- 
spects anticipated  Darwin  as  to  the  origin  of  man  in 
animal  life.  Christopher  Meiners,  1747—1810,  was  a 
German  historian,  who  wrote  on  the  history  of  re- 
ligion, philosophy  and  science. 

Page  Ji-10,  note  ^.  Several  accounts  of  the  nurtur- 
ing of  boys  by  wolves  are  given  in  "  A  Journey 
through  the  Kingdom  of  Oude  in  1849-1850."  By 
Major-General  Sir  W.  H.  Sleeman.  London,  Bentley, 
1858,  two  vols.  These  narratives  are  in  vol.  I,  pages 
208-222.  Sleeman  also  wrote  books  on  the  Thugs, 
and  various  works  on  political  economy.  See  Tylor, 
"  Primitive  Culture,"  vol.  I,  page  281,  for  a  genuine 
interpretation  of  these  stories  about  wolves. 

Page  JflO,  note  5.  An  account  of  the  stealing  of  a 
girl  by  an  orang  outang  is  given  in  "  The  Prison  of 
Weltervreden ;  and  a  Glance  at  the  East  Indian  Archi- 
pelago." By  Walter  M.  Gibson.  New  York,  J.  C. 
Riker,  1855.  Probably  other  incidents  narrated  in 
this  book  are  referred  to  by  Parker. 

Page  Jfll,  note  6.  The  education  of  negroes  was 
forbidden  by  law  in  the  South,  and  the  punishment  was 
severe. 

Page  Jf,18,  note  7.  Laurens  Perseus  Hickok,  1798- 
1888,  was  a  Congregational  minister,  professor  in 
Western  Reserve  College,  Auburn  Theological   Semi- 


NOTES  525 

nary,  Union  College,  and  president  of  the  latter  in- 
stitution, 1866-1868.  He  published  works  on 
"  Moral  Science,"  1853 ;  Mental  Science,"  1854 ;  "  Ra- 
tional Cosmology,"  1858 ;  "  Rational  Psychology," 
1861 ;  "  Logic  of  Reason,"  1874.  He  was  regarded 
as  a  strong  thinker  in  his  day,  but  Parker's  judgment 
has  not  held  good. 

IX 

HENRY  WARD  BEECHER 

In  the  Atlantic  Monthly  for  May,  1858,  the  first 
volume,  appeared  this  review  of  the  work  of  the  great 
Brooklyn  preacher,  based  on  a  compilation  of  Beecher's 
sayings  in  his  sermons  and  lectures.  It  was  Parker's 
only  contribution  to  the  Atlantic  Monthly,  and  one  of 
the  last  of  his  literary  articles.  It  has  not  been  re- 
printed. 

Beecher  lectured  in  the  course  conducted  by  the 
Parker  fraternity,  in  1858,  and  was  severely  criti- 
cised in  various  evangelical  journals.  He  replied  in 
the  Independent  for  January  6  and  13,  1859-  Both 
articles  were  printed  in  pamphlet  form.  The  first  was 
on  "  Total  Depravity,"  in  reply  to  the  charge  that  he 
had  denied  it.  The  second  article  was  on  "  Working 
with  Errorists,"  and  especially  applied  to  his  delivery 
of  the  lecture  to  such  a  society,  usually  regarded  as 
propagandist  of  infidelity  of  the  worst  kind.  "  We 
beHeve  in  the  right  of  free  speech,"  Beecher  replied, 
*'  even  by  men  whose  speech,  when  delivered,  we  can- 
not believe."  "  What  a  pitiful  thing  it  is  to  see  men 
who  have  the  chance  of  saying  what  they  believe,  who 
do  say  it  two  hundred  times  a  year,  who  write  it,  sing 
it,  speak  it,  and  fight  it;  who  by  all  these  social  af- 
firmations, by  all  their  life-work,  by  all  positive  and 
most  solemn  testimonies,  are  placed  beyond  miscon- 
ception,—  always   nervous  lest  they  should  sit   down 


526  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

with  somebody  or  speak  with  somebody,  and  so  lose 
an  immaculate  reputation  for  soundness !  Therefore 
men  peep  out  from  their  systems  as  prisoners  in  jail 
peep  out  of  barred  windows,  but  dare  not  come  out 
for  fear  some  sharp  sheriff  of  the  faith  should  arrest 
them." 

In  view  of  Parker's  appreciation  of  Henry,  Ward 
Beecher,  it  is  interesting  to  note  that  he  did  not  ad- 
mire the  theology  of  Dr.  Lyman  Beecher,  the  father, 
as  may  be  seen  from  a  record  made  in  his  diary  at  a 
period  considerably  subsequent  to  that  of  Beecher's 
preaching  in  Boston. 

"  March  31,  1852.  Old  Dr.  Beecher  came  to  see 
me,  and  spent  an  hour  and  a  half.  '  Tell  me  who 
you  are,'  he  said,  '  where  you  came  from,  and  how  you 
got  so  far  from  the  common  track.'  I  did  so,  and 
we  had  a  quiet  talk.  He  is  genial,  generous,  active- 
minded,  and  expressed  a  strong  sympathy  for  me,  and 
a  good  deal  of  feeling  of  kindliness  towards  me." 

In  a  letter  written  from  Santa  Cruz,  in  1859,  Parker 
gave  an  account  of  his  early  acquaintance  with  Lyman 
Beecher  and  the  repulsive  effect  produced  upon  his 
mind  by  his  theology.  This  was  in  the  winter  of 
1831—62,  when  Beecher  was  using  every  effort  to 
revive  the  older  phases  of  theology  in  Boston. 

"  For  a  year,"  Parker  wrote,  "  though  bom  and 
bred  among  Unitarians,  I  had  attended  the  preachings 
of  Dr.  Lyman  Beecher,  the  most  powerful  orthodox 
minister  in  New  England,  then  in  the  full  blaze  of  his 
talents  and  reputation,  and  stirred  with  polemic  zeal 
against  '  Unitarians,  Universalists,  Papists,  and  Infi- 
dels.' I  went  through  one  of  his  '  protracted  meet- 
ings,' listening  to  the  fiery  words  of  excited  men,  and 
hearing  the  most  frightful  doctrines  set  forth  in  ser- 
mon, song,  and  prayer.  I  greatly  respect  the  talents, 
the  zeal,  and  the  enterprise  of  that  able  man,  who  cer- 
tainly taught  me  much;  but  I  came  away  with  no 


NOTES  527 

confidence  in  his  theology.  The  better  I  understand 
it,  the  more  self -contradictory,  unnatural,  and  hate- 
ful did  it  seem.  A  year  of  his  preaching  about  fin- 
ished all  my  respect  for  the  Calvinistic  scheme  of  the- 
ology."—  Weiss,  vol.  I,  p.  57. 

Page  Ji27,  note  1.  In  the  biography  of  H.  W. 
Beecher  by  W.  C.  Beechef  and  S.  Scoville,  page  289, 
it  is  stated :  "  Mr.  Beecher  gave  himself  unreservedly 
to  this  contest."  "  iNIy  church,"  Beecher  himself 
wrote,  "  voted  me  all  the  time  that  I  thought  to  be 
required  to  go  out  into  the  community  and  speak  and 
canvass  the  state  of  New  York.  I  went  into  that 
canvass,  spoke  twice  and  often  three  times  a  week, 
having  the  whole  day  to  myself  —  that  is,  making  all 
the  speeches  that  were  made.  I  was  sent  principally 
to  what  was  called  the  Silver-Gray  district  or  counties 
—  the  old-time  Whigs  that  were  attempting  to  run  a 
candidate  between  Fremont  and  Buchanan.  I  gen- 
erally made  a  three  hours'  speech  a  day  in  the  open  air 
to  audiences  of  from  eight  to  ten  thousand  people." 
Beecher  advocated  the  election  of  John  C.  Fremont  in 
this  campaign  of  1856. 

Page  Jf27,  note  2.  John  Parker  Hale  of  New 
Hampshire  is  the  one  indicated  in  this  quotation.  In 
1852  he  was  the  candidate  of  the  Free-Soil  party  for 
president.  When  a  monument  to  his  memory  was 
dedicated  in  Washington,  Frederick  Douglas  said: 
"  No  statue  of  patriot,  statesman,  or  philanthropist 
of  our  times  will  convey  to  aftercoming  generations  a 
lesson  of  moral  heroism  more  sublime." 


X 

LIFE  AND  CHARACTER  OF  DR.  FOLLEN 

This  was  the  first  of  Parker's  many  studies  of  lit- 
erary and  political  leaders  prominent  in  American  life. 


528  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

It  is  interesting  to  contrast  it  with  those  devoted  to 
Franklin  and  Webster,  and  to  note  how  his  powers  of 
characterization  had  grown.  It  appeared  in  The  Dial 
for  January  J  1843.  The  work  reviewed  was  The 
Works  of  Charles  Follen,  with  a  Memoir  of  his  Life. 
In  five  volumes.  Boston,  Hilliard,  Gray  &  Co.,  1841. 
The  first  volume  contained  the  memoir  by  his  wife. 
The  second  volume  contained  sermons,  the  third  Lec- 
tures on  Moral  Philosophy,  the  fourth  Schiller's  Life 
and  Dramas,  and  the  fifth  Miscellaneous  Writings,  in- 
cluding the  inaugural  address  in  1831  on  the  occasion 
of  the  author's  induction  into  the  professorship  of  the 
German  language  and  Hterature  at  Harvard  College. 
No  reprint  of  it  has  hitherto  appeared. 

The  Dial  was  a  quarterly  devoted  to  the  ideas  repre- 
sented by  the  transcendendalist  movement,  and  was 
pubhshed  from  July,  1840,  to  April,  1844.  For  the 
first  two  years  it  was  edited  by  Margaret  Fuller,  with 
the  aid  of  George  Ripley  for  the  earlier  numbers.  The 
last  two  years  the  Dial  was  under  the  control  of  Emer- 
son, with  Thoreau  as  his  efficient  aid.  For  several 
months  Elizabeth  Peabody  was  the  publisher,  and  she 
was  also  one  of  the  contributors.  Among  the  writers 
not  already  named  were  Alcott,  Lowell,  Charles  A. 
Dana,  Cranch,  Dwight,  W.  E.  Channing,  Hedge,  Cur- 
tis, and  L.  M.  Child.  Many  of  Emerson's  best  poems 
appeared  in  its  pages.  Parker  was  one  of  the  most 
voluminous  of  its  contributors.  Twelve  of  his  essays 
were  printed  in  the  Dial,  also  verses  and  book-reviews. 
Emerson  wrote  in  his  "  Historic  Notes  of  Life  and  Let- 
ters in  New  England,"  that  "  some  numbers  had  an 
instant  exhausting  sale  because  of  papers  by  Theodore 
Parker." 

In  the  same  essay  Emerson  wrote  of  Parker's  re- 
lations to  the  whole  movement,  and  as  to  his  char- 
acter as  preacher  and  reformer.  "  Parker  was  our 
Savonarola,"  he  wrote,  "  an  excellent  scholar,  in  frank 


NOTES  529 

and  affectionate  communication  -vrlth  the  best  minds 
of  the  day,  yet  the  tribune  of  the  people,  and  the 
stout  reformer  to  urge  and  defend  every  cause  of  our 
humanity  with  and  for  the  humblest  of  mankind.  He 
was  no  artist.  Highly  refined  persons  might  easily 
miss  in  him  the  element  of  beauty.  What  he  said  was 
mere  fact,  almost  offended  you,  so  bald  and  detached; 
little  cared  he.  He  stood  altogether  for  practical 
truth,  and  so  to  the  last.  He  used  every  day  and 
hour  of  his  short  life,  and  his  character  appeared  in 
the  last  moments  with  the  same  firm  control  as  in  the 
midday  of  strength.  I  habitually  apply  to  him  the 
words  of  a  French  philosopher  who  speaks  of  '  the 
man  of  nature  who  abominates  the  steam-engine  and 
the  factory.  His  vast  lungs  breathe  independence 
with  the  air  of  the  mountains  and  the  woods.'  " 

Parker  contributed  to  every  number  of  the  first  vol- 
ume of  the  Dial,  and  to  all  but  one  of  the  second. 
In  the  first  number  appeared  an  article  on  "  The  Di- 
vine Presence  in  Nature  and  the  Soul ;"  in  the  second, 
"  A  Lesson  for  the  Day,"  and  "  Truth  against  the 
World :  A  Parable  of  Paul ;"  In  the  third,  "  German 
Literature ;"  and  in  the  fourth,  "  Thoughts  on  La- 
bor." To  the  first  number  of  the  second  volume  he 
contributed  a  paper  on  "  The  Pharisees,"  and  also 
two  poems  entitled  "  Protean  Wishes."  He  did  not 
have  anything  in  the  second  number,  but  in  the  third 
was  printed  his  article  on  "  Primitive  Christianity,"  re- 
viewing Domer's  Christology.  The  first  and  the  last 
numbers  of  the  third  volume  had  nothing  from  his 
pen,  but  In  the  second  was  printed  his  review  of  the 
Holhs  Street  Council  that  tried  John  Pierpont,  which 
attracted  much  attention ;  and  In  the  third,  his  paper 
on  "The  Life  and  Character  of  Dr.  Pollen."  He 
had  but  one  article  In  the  fourth  volume,  that  In  the 
second  number  reviewing  the  work  of  Charles  Hennell, 
an  English  Idealist   and  radical,   on   the   "  Origin   of 


530  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

Christianity."  Parker  was  in  Europe  from  Septem- 
ber, 1843,  for  a  year,  and  this  will  doubtless  account 
for  his  failure  to  write  for  the  last  volume  more 
largely.  Seven  of  Parker's  contributions  to  the  Dial 
were  reprinted  in  his  "  Critical  and  Miscellaneous 
Writings,"  published  in  1843 ;  and  these  were  "  A  Les- 
son for  the  Day,"  "  German  Literature,"  "  Truth 
against  the  World,"  "  Thoughts  on  Labor,"  "  The 
Pharisees,"  "  Primitive  Christianity,"  and  "  Thoughts 
on  Theology." 

For  details  as  to  the  history  of  the  Dial,  see  The 
Journal  of  Speculative  Philosophy,  edited  by  William 
T.  Harris,  for  July,  1885,  where  there  is  printed  an 
extended  article  by  George  Willis  Cooke,  with  a  com- 
plete list  of  the  contributors.  Also  An  Historical 
and  Biographical  Introduction  to  Accompany  The 
Dial  as  reprinted  in  numbers  for  the  Rowfant  Club, 
by  George  Willis  Cooke.  In  two  volumes,  Cleveland, 
the  Rowfant  Club,  1902.  This  last  work  is  in  two 
volumes  of  about  five  hundred  pages,  gives  a  detailed 
history  of  the  transcendental  movement,  the  Dial  as  its 
organ,  with  biographical  sketches  of  all  the  contribu- 
tors. 

A  word  ought  to  be  added  in  regard  to  the  author 
of  the  admirable  biography  of  Dr.  FoUen.  Mrs.  Pol- 
len was  Eliza  Lee  Cabot,  of  an  old  and  cultivated  Bos- 
ton family.  She  was  born  August  15,  178*7,  and 
married  Dr.  Follen  in  1828.  She  was  the  first  editor 
of  a  children's  paper  in  this  country,  the  "  Child's 
Friend  "  being  under  her  control  from  1843  to  1850. 
She  published  several  books  for  children.  Her  books 
included  "  The  Well-Spent  Hour,"  1827 ;  "  The  Skep- 
tic," 1855;  "Poems,"  1839;  "To  Mothers  in  the 
Free  States,"  1855 ;  "  Anti-Slavery  Hymns  and 
Songs,"  1855 ;  "  Twilight  Stories,"  1858,  and  "  Home 
Dramas,"  1859.  She  not  only  wrote  an  interesting 
biography  of  Dr.  Follen,  but  she  edited  his  works  with 


NOTES  531 

skill.  She  prepared  her  son,  together  with  other  boys, 
for  Harvard  College.  She  was  an  ardent  opponent 
of  slavery,  and  wrote  much  in  behalf  of  the  abolition 
cause. 

Page  JfJi.8,  note  1.  Appendix  to  Life  of  Charles 
Follen,  page  585,  where  is  published  a  poem  by  him 
entitled  Das  Grosse  Lied.  On  page  593  is  a  transla- 
tion, evidently  by  his  own  hand.  Other  poems  are 
also  printed,  both  in  German  and  Enghsh. 

Vage  Jj.49,  note  '2.  David  Walker,  a  negro,  pub- 
lished his  "  Appeal  to  Colored  Citizens  "  in  1829,  is- 
suing it  from  his  store  in  Brattle  street,  Boston.  See 
Story  of  Garrison's  Life  by  his  children,  vol.  I,  pages 
160—1,  where  a  detailed  account  of  the  book  and  its 
author  is  given  in  a  footnote. 

Vage  Ud,  note  3,  John  Bowring,  1792-1872, 
English  linguist,  political  economist,  and  diplomatist. 
He  was  editor  of  Westminster  Review,  edited  works 
of  Bentham,  was  a  member  of  Parliament,  governor  of 
Hong-Kong,  and  held  important  diplomatic  positions. 
He  made  many  translations,  was  a  Unitarian,  and 
wrote  many  excellent  hymns. 

Page  U9,  note  ^.  Clement  C.  Biddle,  1784-1855, 
was  a  diligent  student  of  economics  and  issued  an  an- 
notated edition  of  J.  B.  Say's  "  Political  Economy  " 
shortly  after  the  war  of  1812,  besides  editing  Prin- 
sep's  translation  of  the  same  work.  He  was  present 
at  the  free-trade  convention  held  in  Philadelphia,  in 
1831,  and  was  at  that  time  influential  in  shaping  the 
financial  policy  of  the  national  government. 

Page  %56,  note  5.  Prances  Wright,  1795-1852, 
was  born  in  Scotland,  imbibed  ideas  of  French  philos- 
ophers, visited  the  United  States  in  1818.  In  1821 
she  published  in  London  Views  of  Society  and  Man- 
ners in  America.  After  visiting  France,  she  returned 
to  the  United  States  in  1825,  purchased  a  large  farm 
near  Memphis   in  Tennessee,   and  established  there  a 


53^  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

colony  of  free  negroes.  As  this  was  opposed  to  the 
laws  of  the  state,  she  took  the  negroes  to  Hayti.  In 
1833  she  began  to  lecture  against  slavery,  and  for  the 
freedom  of  women.  She  spoke  with  great  liberty,  was 
a  severe  critic  of  existing  social  restrictions,  and  was 
bitterly  opposed.  She  joined  Robert  Owen  in  his 
community  at  New  Harmony,  Indiana,  and  edited  the 
paper  published  there.  She  married,  in  1838,  d'Arus- 
mont,  whose  ideas  were  similar  to  her  own ;  but  they 
soon  separated,  and  she  lived  in  Cincinnati  with  her 
daughter  until  her  death.  She  published  several 
works,  including  "  A  Few  Days  in  Athens,"  1822 ; 
"  Popular  Lectures  on  Free  Inquiry,"  1829.  She  was 
a  free  thinker,  and  was  usually  called  an  infidel.  Biog- 
raphies have  been  published  of  her  in  London  by  John 
Windt,  and  in  Cincinnati  by  Amos  Gilbert. 

Page  4-^ly  note  6.  Follen  was  an  intimate  friend 
and  great  admirer  of  Dr.  Channing,  and  this  refer- 
ence is  probably  to  him. 

XI 

GERMAN  LITERATURE 

The  third  number  of  the  Dial,  January,  1841,  con- 
tained this  article.  It  was  included  by  Parker  in  his 
Critical  and  Miscellaneous  Writings,  1843.  Miss 
Cobbe  gave  it  a  place  in  the  ninth  volume  of  her  edi- 
tion of  Parker's  works,  being  the  first  volume  of  the 
Critical  Writings.  The  work  reviewed  had  this  title- 
page: 

German  Literature,  translated  from  the  German  of 
Wolfgang  Menzel.  By  C.  C.  Felton.  In  three  vol- 
umes.    Boston,  Hilliard,  Gray  and  Company,  18-10. 

These  volumes  were  included  in  the  series  of  "  Speci- 
mens of  Foreign  Standard  Literature,"  edited  by 
George  Ripley,  and  published  in  Boston  by  Hilliard, 
Gray  and  Company,  from  1838  to  1842.     The  first 


NOTES  533 

two  volumes  were  "  Philosophical  Miscellanies,"  trans- 
lated by  Ripley  himself,  from  Cousin,  Jouffroy,  and 
Benjamin  Constant.  The  third  volume  included  John 
S.  Dwight's  translations  from  Goethe,  Schiller,  and 
other  German  poets.  The  fourth  was  "  Eckermann's 
Conversations  with  Goethe,"  translated  by  Margaret 
Fuller.  Then  followed  Jouffroy 's  "  Introduction  to 
Ethics,"  in  two  volumes,  translated  by  William  Henry 
Channing.  Menzel's  work  came  next,  and  it  was  fol- 
lowed by  De  Wette's  "  Theodore  or  the  Skeptic's  Con- 
version," translated  by  James  Freeman  Clarke.  There 
followed  De  Wette's  "  Human  Life  or  Practical 
Ethics,"  in  translation  by  Samuel  Osgood.  The  series 
concluded  with  Songs  and  Ballads  from  the  German, 
translated  by  Charles  T.  Brooks.  It  was  planned  to 
include  several  other  French  and  German  works,  but 
the  series  probably  did  not  prove  a  financial  success. 

Page  Jf-67,  note  1.  The  anglicizing  the  Heinrich 
must  be  regarded  as  a  concession  on  the  part  of  Parker 
to  the  general  ignorance  of  German  at  this  period. 

Page  4.79,  note  2.  Mezentius  was  a  mythological 
king  of  Etrusca,  famous  for  cruelty,  said  to  have 
formed  an  alliance  with  Rutulianus.  The  word  is  used 
as  synonymous  with  fabulous  giants,  therefore  coupled 
with  Goliath. 

Page  485,  note  3.  Wolfgang  Menzel,  1798-1873, 
after  graduating  from  Bonn,  hved  at  Stuttgart,  and 
was  a  member  of  the  landtag  of  Wiirtemberg.  He 
published  a  clever  volume  of  poems  called  "  Streck- 
verse,"  in  1827,  which  was  followed  in  1829  and  1830 
by  "  Riibezahl "  and  "  Narcissus."  A  romance  of 
the  thirty  years'  war,  entitled  "  Furare,"  was  pub- 
lished in  1851.  He  edited  the  "  Literaturblatt  "  from 
1825  to  1848,  and  from  1852  onwards.  His  History 
of  German  Literature  appeared  in  1830  in  three  vol- 
umes, and  in  a  revised  edition  of  1836  in  four.  He 
wrote  a  history  of  the  war  of  1866  with  Austria,  and 


534!  THE  AMERICAN  SCHOLAR 

one  on  the  Franco-Prussian  war  of  1871.  He  also 
produced  numerous  other  works.  In  his  "  Social 
Forces  in  German  Literature,"  Prof.  Kuno  Francke 
says  of  him :  "  It  is  a  mistake  to  think  of  Wolfgang 
Menzel,  the  intellectual  father  of  modern  Anti-Semi- 
tism, as  an  irreconcilable  enemy  of  Borne  and  Heine. 
His  estimate  of  both  men,  in  his  Die  deutsche  Literatur, 
volume  four  of  1836,  belongs  to  the  best  that  has  been 
said  about  either." 

Page  JfOJf,,  note  Jp.  Cornelius  Conway  Felton,  1807- 
1862,  was  a  teacher  in  the  Round-hill  school  at  North- 
ampton, a  Latin  tutor  at  Harvard,  a  professor  in 
Greek  there,  and  in  1834  took  the  chair  of  Greek  lit- 
erature. In  1860  he  became  president  of  Harvard 
College,  which  position  he  held  until  his  death.  He 
published  translations  of  Guyot's  "  Earth  and  Man," 
a  revised  edition  of  Smith's  "  History  of  Greece," 
"  Selections  from  Modern  Greek  Writers,"  and  "  Fa- 
miliar Letters  from  Europe."  His  chief  work  was 
his  "  Greece,  Ancient  and  Modern,"  lectures  at  the 
Lowell  Institute,  which  was  published  in  1867,  in  two 
volumes,  Boston. 


M 


7/   1003.  OS^.OG&S^ 


